I am highly disappointed, feelling mentally harrased from Tikona Team Tikona guys are worst service providers, insane people with no mind, can not understand what customer service is. I have terminated my service/relations with tikona 4 months back, and Tikona people are sending me bills and harassing me by calls, SMSes for my Bill Payment for no usage. I have already disconnected my Tikona connetction by reporting for disconnection from customer care and Tikona support staff in Indore. But the frustrating part is that they are not terminating my connection and sending me bills. Why should I pay them. If timely action from Tikona is not taken, your company will be in soup! I have clearly unsubcribed(Terminated) to Tiokana services through the customer care of tikona 4 months back. Since than every day i am getting the calls from tikona, do'nt know for what reason, in every call i told to disconnect my services many times but again the next day I get call in which I say same thing but they ask for payment. I have already mailed them on Thu, Jun 9, 2016 at 2:07 to all tikona id available on its website, but than also no response on that mail, infact they are saying that termination request is under process but you have to pay bills. I have told in 20-30 calls clearly that I do not want tikona services or any contact from tikona team, i have cleared all my dues/payable/bills with Tikona. Tikona team is mentally harassing me by calling me again and again to know the techincal issue i am facing, which i am not. I just do not want your services any more I have cleared all my dues'. But i got a call from Tikona that i have Rs500 surplus with Tikona, so i can use that amount. But i discarded the option as i do not want to have any relation or services with tikona. Than also you guys started my services without my consent. I have also called your people in 'Indore Tikona Team' to cancel my connection and take your device. Than also your team have done nothing. I have told Tikona team in 20-30 calls that kindly disconnect my services, but rather you sent me a bill Rs467.86 due on 10/06/16. This is the last warning i am giving you guys, i do not want your services, i have already told many time please disconnect my services as i am not using you services. You guys are pathetic and doing fraud with customers, if timely action is not taken from Tikona, than you guys will have to face the music! Kindly disconnect the services of account - Mr. NARESH GUPTA 148-TELEPHONE NAGAR, INDORE NEAR- KANADIA ROAD INDORE, MP - 452011 Last Billing Account Number[protected] Phone Number- [protected].