Respected sir/ madam, I ( Jignesh Medhe- [protected]) had applied for an airline job online long back, I recieved a CALL ON 26th of February 2021 saying I have got shortlisted for air collector job and then they asked me to send my documents for verification. Later the next day they asked me to pay 2500/- for ID purposes .I questioned them but they assured me it was a security deposit amount and would be refundable so I paid 2500/- the next day which is on 27th . I recieved the reciept of the same. Soon I had one online MCQ test in which I passed. Soon she told me I'll arrange a online interview for you the next day. Next day she called me and said sir you have to have 6450/- for further process where I said I can't . She insisted so much and assured me again saying that it's completely refundable. I asked her to give me acknowledgment of the same. After many discussion I paid her the amount I had saved slogging my ###. She sent me the reciept and acknowledgment and said the interview will be scheduled for the next day. Next day another man called asking for my body measurements for the uniform and indigo logo's. I gave measurement but then he asked for 11950/- where I was shocked. I told him you guys neber informed and evry day you are asking for new big amount. He said it's for the logo sir everything will be refunded. Don't worry it's just the formality keep trust. This is the last amount. They blackmailed saying that if you don't pay you wont get your refundable amounts and also will be blacklisted in airline companies forever. After several arguments and discussion and blackmailing I sent them the final amount 11950/- . After that I had a small interview on call . Now today they called me and are asking for 17500/- for activation money . I firmly refused and told them please refund my amounts I don't want any recruitment . They started yelling and being rude to me. Didn't attend my calls. And straight away told me ' Nahi milega refund jao, jo karna hai karo ab' this is how they scammed me taking your AAI name and logos. You guys need to help me please I am the only earning .those were my savings and money asked from people. If I don't get my refunds I have only one option to do, is quitting my life. I really can't handle this anymore ...they are taking advantage of innocent ambitious youth . I falled into their trap because I really wanted to work in aviation and was in need but today I am broken. Please help me . Their contact number- [protected] [protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (16)