I have been scammed online by FM Malls. Last May 8, I joined this online platform, called FM Malls, which promised to make money through the order grabbing operation process. The process includes the users to deposit funds in the system and tasks get assigned to the users. The tasks are system-generated and you cannot choose what items to order. All orders have an equivalent amount, and to complete the tasks, you have to deposit the same amounts and submit. Your money then goes back to your account, and gets frozen unless you completed all tasks. In my experience, it started with 200 pesos and now, I have 129, 253 pesos I cannot withdraw (85, 310 pesos deposit, 43, 943 pesos commission). What they do is, the system will encourage you to keep on depositing money to finish the tasks, promising you'll be able to withdraw once they're all completed. Once done, you'll be surprised that new tasks are assigned to you as pending thus becoming the reason why you won't be able to withdraw your money back. I was determined to complete all my tasks so I can withdraw my money. I grabbed the order on May 9 and waited until I had enough money to accomplish it. When I tried to finish the tasks, I needed to get permission to work on them so I sought assistance from the company. I was granted the permission but WAS NEVER TOLD about the 24-hour time frame to finish the task, otherwise funds will be FROZEN. Having grabbed the order on May 9 and working on them on May 13, it was clear that the tasks I was working on were already for freezing but the Support did not tell me that. So I went ahead to complete the task thinking I could end it within the day. While working on the tasks, I was surprised to see that the amount was increasing for every order. It started with 7, 000+ pesos until the succeeding items caused 43, 000+ pesos. I checked with the support if there's a way I could see the prices of the tasks ahead of time but they said it's system-generated. I completed all my tasks after borrowing money from my relatives thinking I could withdraw all my money but it wasn't a success. I reached out to the support team and they said the reason why I can't withdraw my money is because my funds are frozen because I worked on a task past its time limit. I was not told about this when they gave me permission to work on the task. They also said that in order for me to get my money active again is to work on 2 more tasks. This time, the tasks cost more than 80, 000 pesos. They want me to spend more money in order to get my money. That's when I knew I was scammed. The way to deposit on their system is through GCash and these are the numbers generated where I transferred my money: May 8 - Donald Demiao - [protected] - 600PHP May 9 - Douis Rey Posadas - [protected] - 200PHP May 9 - Louie Jhon Dati Dago-oc - [protected] - 500PHP May 9 - Michael Andrew Ibcas - [protected] - 200PHP May 9 - Marck Nunez - [protected] - 650PHP May 13 - Almaza Mar - [protected] - 1500PHP May 13 - Langel Sugmao - [protected] - 2000PHP May 13 - Karissa Dela Cruz - [protected] - 5000PHP May 13 - May FLV Besing - [protected] - 10000PHP May 13 - Anavyviv Campo - [protected] - 21100PHP May 13 - Merry Rose Adviento - [protected] - 20000PHP May 13 - Niecris Vasquez - [protected] - 23560PHP I reached out to them to tell them that my funds are frozen and I would like to withdraw my money back but they wanted me to complete more tasks to do so. Please help me. There may be more victims like me. Please see all the screenshots I have from this experience attached. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (85)