Dear Sir/Mam, This is to bring to your notice about an online fraud that I encountered recently. I had put up an ad to resell my old Cooler on OLX to which I received responses from many buyers. I came across Sahil Kumar who showed genuine interest in purchasing. I decided to go ahead and close the deal with him and told him to collect the cooler from my place and pay through Cash or Phonepe. He agreed to this and called me for the payment through Phonepe. He said he has no Phonepe app and will transfer money to my account with a swipe machine with someone's help. He added that for this I have to scan a QR code that he will share on WhatsApp to receive the money however for that I will have to first initiate a payment and he will return that amount back. He started with 1re to gain my trust and soon when I paid him 1re, he credited the same amount back to me twice. He told me to pay me Rs-2000/- for the cooler, i will have to follow the same process and I will immediately get it twice in my account (one will be my own debit and the other one will be for the cooler). He sent a QR code on my WhatsApp number which said Scan To receive full refund of Rs-4000/- But when I proceeded, the amount got debited twice and no credit transaction happened. When I told him about this he told there is some server issue and he will rectify and call back. Later again he called and asked to follow the same process stating the issue has been rectified and definitely I will get the money refunded. He again sent a QR code that said “Scan to receive full refund” and again Rs-4000/- was debited from my account adding to a total of Rs-8000/- of debit. When I told him about this he denied of debiting my account first and later promised to pay me back anyhow on the next day. This incident happened on 6th, Tues between 07:30pm to 10:30 pm. On 7th, Wed when I contacted him and explained to make a bank transfer through internet banking he promised he will get it done by evening. Again in the evening he called and was telling me to make an IMPS payment from my Bank account to which he will credit the money twice and clear my debt. I told him this is not how bank transfer works. I further said if you don't know to make a transfer then visit the bank and get the transfer done from there the next day or to pay me in cash. He agreed and morning when I asked him about it he asked me to share my PAN card and Aadhar card photos to show it to the bank authority. I knew there was a risk here too yet I shared my PAN card no with him as I wanted to know his real intentions and it was out soon. The minute I shared my PAN no, he started generating OTP's via my PAN no and repeatedly asked me to share the message with him to rob me further, which I never did. I called him and told he has an hour to return the money by going to the bank or by giving me cash to which he said he wont return any of it. I have already filed a FIR at Malwani police station and National Cyber Crime who will do the needful. I intimated HDFC bank as it is required on my behalf to do it. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)