I started working with this company from 5/10/2019. Logged in back to this site on the same evening and he got a message on the screen that they found some other ip address. They said that they would sort it out within 48 hours. I worked for two day's and today evening i. E. 07/10/2019 i filled 175 form's. While i was entering the data the site closed on it's own and when i reopened it showed the same message that they found a different ip address. How can someone find a different ip address when we are filling the form and the site getting closed on it's own? These people are behind money and now they are literally changing the situation from one to another to get money from us. On signing in they had took our thumb prints and documents and they also gave a fake agreement. Now when said the names of people who contacted us they are telling that they don't know each other and they gave the number of some other person. The names and numbers are as mentioned below: Riya sharma : +[protected] Payal sharma : +[protected] Vivek sharma : +[protected] Riya and payal are the one's who contacted us all this while and now they are saying that they don't know each other. And now they are giving vivek's number and telling us to ask him what answers should be given to us? None of them are neither getting in contact with us now. (Notice) :- software crashed / server blocked / work status / Work note done / qc failed / Incomplete submission Respected laxmi narayan tyagi, Thanking you for signing the digital contract with us. According to the information technology act 2000 (The act) which came into force on[protected]. The act applies to the whole of india and even to persons who commit offence outside india. The act validates “digital signature” and provides for enabling a person to use it just like the traditional signature. The basic purpose of digital signature is not different from our conventional signature. The purpose therefore is to authenticate the document, to identify the person and to make the contents of the document binding on person putting digital signature. Let us see what digital signature is in technical terms. Digital signature raise the same liability as the regular one for the causes of criminal and civil matters. So the hon supreme saying digital signature or digital signature scheme is a mathematical scheme for demonstrating the authenticity of a digital message or document. A valid digital signature gives a recipient reason to believe that the message was created by a known sender, and that it was not altered in transit. So this digital transition has them authentication as the regular one in the eye of law and you are abiding with the same. This mail is in regards to the problem created from your side knowingly or unknowingly due to which login i. D of the company is damaged and the server of the company is blocked on which many freelancers are working and earning money. Below are the reasons due to which such a problem is created, which has totally affected company’s software and database. 1. You might have used 2 systems (2 computer, 2 laptops, 1 mobile phone and 1 computer, 1 mobile phone and 1 laptop, 1 computer and 1 laptop) at the same time due to which server load was increased and resulted into the software crash. 2. You might have not done proper login/logout while working on company’s software because the necessity is, after each login there should be a logout and after each logout there should be a login but it was not properly done from your side due to which the server detected miscellaneous and server was blocked. This point was restricted to be done in the stamp paper agreement held between you and the company. 3. You might have used internet from different companies (Reliance, airtel, vodafone, idea, etc) or you might have used internet from mobile hot spot, wifi – router, lan cable, dongle, etc due to which 2 i. P addresses have been found which was strictly prohibited in the rules of stamp paper agreement held between you and the company. 4. You might have used third party application to complete company’s work without hard work or you might have used third party software to destroy or affect company’s database through malware virus. You will receive a call shortly from our technical team or legal team depending upon the loss occurred to the company due to the mistake done from your side intentionally or unintentionally. They will guide you and explain you with each and every details that how the problem was created from your end due to which company is suffering from great loss, with legitimate proofs. If instructions of our technical team member or legal associate is not followed then legal f. I. R will be filed and below proceedings will be held :- Our team will give you a call to resolve this issue and it is our request do follow their instructions humbly otherwise you must know that this stamp paper agreement made between you and the company comes under the indian contract act 1872 and section 17 will be imposed on you for doing fraud with the company intentionally. We also want to inform you that i. P. C section 420 will be imposed on you for doing fraud, betraying and breaking rules and regulations of the company. Abusive word : section 66 a shall be imposed for using abusive words with our technical team and legal firm associates and can cause 3 months prison. Non payment : an arbitrary and conciliation act of 1996 as per an article 14 shall be imposed on you if you do not solve this case outside the court with our technical team or legal associate you might need to pay rs. 50, 300/- to 4, 40, 000/- for the total loss including the expense of advocates, travelling expenses, notary charges, affidavit charges, summons fees etc to the company. Summon letter : if you don't reply on time period it means that you agree and you may be on the fault and as per the notice you are disrespecting the notice and law so as per the court summon letter will be issued it is to notifying a named party that a case involving it and that it must an appearance on the stated date to answer the charges or give evidence. Failure to obey summon may result in issue of warrant of arrest and not settling the dispute will land up you in mess and we need to proceed this case further for an arbitrary proceedings. For resolving this issue and to stop procedure of summon letter you need to make the payment till 07:00 pm today and please provide the screenshot of successful payment on this email - id. On the basis of that we will proceed to provide you termination letter/ no objection certificate (N. O. C) which proves that company is not having any problem with you. Agreement cost :- 5, 000/- Legal charge :- 5, 500/- Server charge :- 5, 000/- _ Total charge :- 15, 500/ — Termination amount :- 30, 500/- (Note : penalty amount will be refundable with your first payment) For further details you can contact our technical/legal team on[protected]. Thank and regards. Data plus. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (5)