Dear Sir/Madam, I am writing to bring to your attention a serious matter of fraudulent activity that I have experienced at the hands of an online fraudster. As a result, I would like to file a complaint against this fraudster for his illegal actions that have caused financial harm to me. The fraudster spoke to me on call & WhatsApp and claimed to be an employee of a loan company. He is not an employee of any loan company and was impersonating as an employee and falsely using the logo of other companies. Following are the contact details of the fraudster as available to me: Mobile/WhatsApp Number: [protected] Bank Name/ Bank Account no shared by Fraudster for payment: INDUSIND BANK/[protected] The fraudster induced me to make my loan repayments into third-party personal bank accounts / UPI IDs as follows: Bank Name/ Bank Account No: INDUSIND BANK /[protected] Amount paid: Rs. 45, 560 /- Date of payment: 16 February 2024 Further, I have attached the WhatsApp conversation & my payment transaction details, for your quick reference and marked as Exhibit A & A-1. I have been duped into transferring the above-mentioned amount into fraudulent accounts. The fraudster misled me into believing that I would have to pay a lesser amount than the actual loan amount I borrowed from the company. Therefore, I request that you take strict legal action against the fraudster and ensure that justice is served to me. I am willing to provide any assistance that may be required from my end to aid in your investigation. I also confirm that the company whose name and logo has been used by the fraudster is not involved in this fraud and hence I request you to take action against the person who is doing the fraud as he is using the name and logo of other companies without their knowledge and permission. I also request you to block/freeze the bank account/UPI ID to which the above amount of Rs.45, 560 has been credited by me. I urge you to take quick action and conduct a thorough investigation into this matter. Thank you for your time and attention to this. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)