YATRA can not handle offers, sales and ties up's as per my recent experience. There is a tie-up between Yatra and Flipkart wherein if something is bought from Flipkart. Customers get full cash back of that amount. You will get code of that amount which can be applied in Yatra.com as a ecash. I did shop from Flipkart multiple times and did receive code for some of the purchase.

I had applied codes in Ecash and eventully, I had 3059 approximately.

This was the first time ever, I was dealing with YATRA and you let me down in very first time.

1. I received a massage that 755 ecash has been debited from your account t and I was shocked why? I called in customer care they asked me to drop an email to [protected]@yatra.com. I did the same however, I received only one email stating will revert on this. I am waiting for response from last 4 to 6 days.

Trouble No - 2

Currently I have 2434 in my acconot a. I also received a massage that your ecash is ready to use however I am not able to redeem since I am not getting payment option to reedem ecash. Technically, why I am unable to use it?
One side you are asking me to use and on the other hand no body knows how to use it or how to make payment so not help at all.

The point here is, first of all you will have to waist time with Flipkart (since not received code for some of the purchase ) and then you have to waist time with YATRA. I am saying this thing since no body is helping.

You are not giving offers to us but yes you are giving us trouble here. If it will not be by Flipkart in some cases, then it will be by YATRA. In my case, trouble is from both side.

I wanna ask that we pay, we buy but no body hears us when we face trouble. I wanna ask we keep getting promotional offers everyday once we buy anything but what about our complaints when we sent an email, we don't get any kind of massages that we are working on your issue.

My question here is :

1.Why does all terms and conditions applies to customer?
2. Why do you break terms and conditions and ask others to stick to it?
3. Why do you only interested with your profit and earning but not about our complaints? 

This is the question that remained unanswered and would love to hear from you.

Why I am following UP since I could have bought from other sites which were offering less then Flipkart however I purchased from Flipkart because of that offer. I had to book a hotel a month back for November but I thought that let this code be activated I will probably save some money because of this offer. I could not save money but on the other hand rate got increased while I was waiting for code to be activated. Neither code got activated nor received code for new purchased.

Eventully, these offers may save some bucks but sometime can make you in trouble which is very frustrated. Please beware from these sort of offers.

Account email ID - [protected]@gmail

Thanks
Hemant Wadhwa