I had placed on grofers, order id ord[protected] for rs.1, 273/- on 16th april 2020. The material was to be delivered on 17.4.2020 between 7 am and 1 pm. For this an extra membership charge of rs.75 was taken by them. I waited for the order, but it did not come. When i called up the delivery guy, he said that he has taken my material to another area since his gps showed a different address. (Similar complaints i have seen online from more customers that their app changes the address on its own). So, he said that goods will be delivered on 18th april morning. At midnight, i got an sms from grofers saying that material will be delivered on 22nd april (Surprising since my order was already dispatched to some other wrong address and the delivery guy had confirmed that it would be delivered on 18th april. Since i needed the groceries urgently, i cancelled the order and went to a neraby store to buy the stuff. They said that refund will be credited within 8-10 days. However, even after several emails and chats and telephone calls, they did not refund my money. Then again on 3rd june 2020, i wrote a mail asking for my refund, since it was already more than 45 days now. Within 5 minutes, i got a call from grofers telling that he has revceived my mail and will process the refund. I had paid by a meal card. He said that refund is not processing in that and asked my upi numberthat he will directly transfer the money in my bank. Trusting him, i shared the detail. He refunded partially only rs.500 and then said that process is slow due to portal problem and less staff in this covid time. Then line cut and he called back asking me to fill up a surveymonkey form mentioning the balance amount receivable. I mentioned rs.737. He refunded the same. Then he said that because of the problem caused to me, as a goodwill gesture, company is offering a cashback of rs.5000/- on purchase of rs.2000/- and asked access to my email id for processing the same. Sensing something fishy, i did not give him my email credentials. I kept my bank account open in case there is any fraud. Then he suddenly deducted rs.5000 from my account. When i asked why, he said by mistake and immediately refunded rs.5000 back. Then he deducted rs.5000 from my son's account and credited back the same. Then line disconnected. Within 5 minutes my son got a call from suspicious transaction dept of hdfc bank and we immediately asked them to block the account to avoid any fraud. I called up my crm at the bank also and he confirmed blocking the account. I immediately wrote an email to grofers informing them about this incident. But the have not replied to me even though 6 days are over. Then on 4th april, i went to my bank and wrote them to open the accounts, which they did on 6th april evening. We had put in new passwords. Today on 9th april morning, suddenly between 11:30 am and 11:32 am 6 transactions took place taking away rs.1 lakh from my account. We have raised a complaint with cyber cell of police. There is no doubt that the staff of grofers is hand-in-glove with fraudsters and is looting away money of customers... And grofers doesn't bother about its customers. It doesn't refund for months together, it doesn't even bother to respond to mails mentioning fraud attempt for more than 1 week and even doesn't check employee's honesty. Pathetic.. Do not shop from grofers. Otherwise the wolves sitting there in form of employees will loot you too. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)