I have register in www.shine.com for finding new job. On 5th october 2017 at about 16:37hrs, i got a phone call from [protected] from an executive of shine.com regarding new jobs and resume writing. He told me it will charged around rs8500/-. Again he called me on 6th october 2017 at 9:13hrs and ask me to pay and send me an email where details of the services and charges were mentioned and an option of make payment was there. Accordingly, i paid the rs8773/-. Immediately after the payment, one mr rajesh from shine.com called me from [protected] around 10:00hrs. And fixed an apointment for further processing and collection of some my career related data. As per the schedule, he called me at about 15:21hrs. Like previous he send me an email for payment of charges of rs6099/- for profile verification. He said there no other charges. I paid the amount. After payment, he send another email for payment of rs7800/- for some other verification. After some conversation, i paid the amount. After payment, he send another email for payment of rs11299/- which paid. Then he send, one email for payment of rs13449/-. At that time, i asked for what is this, your payment options are going in a non-ending process. He confirmed me this is the last payment. I paid the amount and asked for the item wise charges list. He said me there is no other charges and it is completed. But, after some time he send me on email that, i have to pay another charge amounting to rs18270/-. When i denied to pay he told me my profile will be incomplete. But, i didnot pay. The shine.com is misleading job seekers and twist them is such a manner that, they will bound to pay the unauthorized charges. Such i have paid rs47420/-. They are not providing the clear list of their charges. So that, one can decide whether avail the service or not. The details of the mail and the confirmation letter are enclosed here with for reference. I request, to take necessary steps for refund of the my money as i cannot afford more their charges and i don't want the service any more.