They asked me to pay 50000/- rs as the registration charges and asked me to take loan on the basis of a document which is not valid. This documents was a admission offer letter, on the basis of this they asked me to pay entire fees in a week, for which i took loan. Moreover sales team o[censored]pgrad confirmed that i comply with all pre-requisites to get admission.So i just need to complete all formal process. So, i went ahead on the face value and trust, once i paid all they said that they can't get the admission done, so i need to file a new application on a different terms.I didn't agreed because it is not as per the terms which i agreed and moved further. So they asked me to go for a Non degree program at a cost of degree program. Means all what they have said was false. Later on they stopped all communications and left me as it is, then my emi started deducting of 20k per month. As they have completely altered the terms and conditions of admission, so i can't go ahead on newer terms as this doesn't serves my purpose. So i asked to cancel this process because they have altered everything, neither there words stands true nor there offer stands valid and that offer letter duped me with hefty loan. When i asked them to initiate my refunds, they said that i need to pay a hefty penalty for this. I said if i after getting admissions takes step back then your claim to pay penalty is valid, but i didn't get admission, and you all have put me into this financial trap on a basis of an offer letter which is not authorised letter. Then i initiated that process as well of paying this hefty penalty and i paid that as well, still they haven't closed my EMI. During all these process i have already lost 82000/- rupees and it is still counting. Moreover Upgrad team doesn't give a damn or any importance to all the sufferings that one is going through.This has adversely impacted my physical, mental health and financial condition. Basically on an un authenticated document they asked me to pay all these hefty amount. Surprisingly they call it their process. Actually it a phishing process. Uptill now i have sent 35+ emails on this matter to Upgrad in last 3 months. If they don't respond i will apprise PMO on all these activities. If i can get into this trap then many 1000 guys would have already fallen into this trap, if this continues then it a big thing to action now itself. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (5)