I got a call from anil bhardwaj (Ph no:[protected], [protected]), the representative of shine.com. He told that there is a vacancy for a job in canada location. After that he asked me to pay the registration fees (Rs.4543) and he assured that you will get an interview soon. After 4 days he called me and asked me to pay rs.6361 for the immigration process. I refused to pay and he told this is the last payment. Then he alloted the counselor and his name is deepesh (Ph no:[protected]), the representative of shine.com. He told me to pay rs.5204 for education verification. After that he told me to pay rs.5404 for job interview preparation. I refused to pay this amount and he told me if you didn't pay, you will surely fails in the interview. I paid the amount and there is no calls from shine.com. After 10 days i got a call from deepesh and he told me to pay 13498 for job and interview assistance. Then i shouted him and i told i cannot pay this amount. So the # and # from shine mr. Ritesh pratap singh (Ph no:[protected]) called me and asked me to pay the part payment. After that i paid rs.6195 for job and interview assistance. After that there is no single call from anybody in shine.com. If i call them, they were not responding properly. They are all fakers. My kind request is to who search for a job, please don't believe shine.com. And i request the money cheaters to return back my money, if you are food eaters. I request the indian government to throw this company out of this country as soon as possible and i need the guidance to fight against this fraudulents if there is no response for my complaint. After the submission of my complaint, what are the actions taken against your fraud employees. I have paid almost 28, 000 and it is not a small amount. I have all evidences like voice recording, e-mail, etc. If you do not refund my amount, I will surely file a complaint against you. Deduct the salary from your cheated employees and pay me as soon as possible. I have already discussed this matter to the nearest police station and they will surely help me. I request the the Indian government and Haryana government to take necessary actions and ask them to return my money or throw them out of this country. Your act of betrayal gave me a mental pressure. First give counselling to your employers to don't cheat others. If the action is not against you, then this website comes under shine.com company. Now a days I lost my hope in the action of the government. If my money is not refunded, I will give my voice against the government.