I have been received an email regardind some lottery winning of 6, 50, 500 pound from united nation trust funds, nigeria department of humanitarian affairs. I am confused that whether it is true or fake company. Also they are charging some $250 and that too not in the name of the organisation by western union but in the name of "Henry Nduka" address "plot 107 apapa road lagos, nigeria". And they have also included the name o[censored]nited nation secretary general as Mr Ban Ki Moon. Here is the copy of email. Please reply me as soon as possible at "[protected]@yahoo.co.uk". United Nations Trust Funds Nigeria Department of Humanitarian Affairs 101 Yahkubu Lane CH-1211 Geneva 10 Nigeria. Tel:+[protected] Congratulations Beneficiary, This is to inform you that you have won a prize money of Six Hundred And Fifty Thousand Five hundred Great British Pound Sterlings, (£650, 500.00)for this new year 2009 Lottery promotion which is organized by United Nations Organization. United Nations Organization, collects all the email addresses of the people that are active online, among the millions that subscribed to the Internet.we only select five people every Year as our winners through electronic balloting System without the winner applying, we congratulate you for being one of the people selected. These are your identification numbers: Batch number...UNO 09102XN Reff number...UNO 35447XN Winning number...UNOW09788XN These numbers fall within your Location file, you are requested to contact the event manager/Claims Department, send your winning identification numbers and fill the verification form below, to enable him verify your claims. 1.FULL NAMES OF DONATION BENEFICIARY: 2.RESIDENTIAL ADDRESS: 3.DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH: 4.WINNING EMAIL: 5.PHONE/FAX NUMBERS: 6.NAME AND ADDRESS OF NEXT OF KIN: 7.SEX: 8.OCCUPATION: 9.MARITAL STATUS: 10.NATIONALITY: Our corresponding office in the (AU) African Union will give details on how your funds would be remitted to you.Do contact our payment office in Africa immediately with the informations below. A Scanned copy of a valid identification card should also be attached(either an International passport or Driver's License) and send with the listed information for claims of your won prize. Payment Officer:Mr.Bruce Brand Phone Number:+[protected] Email:[protected]@live.com Regards, Mr Ban Ki-moon. (UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY GENERAL) Was this information helpful? No (3) Yes (7)