Gujarat, Surat, Maharashtra ka all Fake from filling job is now exposed, anyone who has received threatening calls, email messages from fake from filling job Gujarat, Surat do not need to panic anymore. I have all the evidence that how many scams, frauds, Do not pay money it's a totally fake Nitish Khawani, owner of this game's mastermind surat, has been running the cyber scam ka racket for many years, in the name of this fake fake company, fake advocate, fake lawyer, fake stamp, fake agreement, fake notice, fake case The needy, the unemployed, the poor people first enters into their net in the name of online data entry, form filling job, captcha filling job, home based job, and then creates a fake address, fake website, fake names, then good, offers easy job, good salary, income and a helpline no. Make available and say, if there is a problem, call it, then it takes their signature, photo, current location (gps tracking) of online applications and then a fake agreement (which has some conditions like 90% accuracy, fix time Period to complete work, 4800 consolation charge, 4800 penalty if work is not completed with the following conditions), which builds on an old counterfeit stamp, then provides online work only, then the wrong report of the work done by the people Sometimes, the work provided by them is very wrong and intriguing, which is easily Not only, or sometimes their provided application is not available, and when coming to the helpline or at the job, no. But when no one gives a reply on the call, and when the given time period is complete, by sending the mail, text massage, call threatening call to the company as a lawyer, in which many sections, IPC streams, works are written or ( Adding penalties + legal charge + GST ​​is written to pay the amount of[protected] and start threatening those trapped in their net, if you do not pay, you will do many cases, send court notice at home, 50000 will have to be filled properly, in this way this lawyer becomes the legal department of company daily massage, call, mail, and then torture till people give up money by scared or disturbed, and many times they start blackmail again and later a lawyer minhaz m. Let us send notice / letter in favor of Patel (2203/2016) If someone complains to the online complaint website, then they also threaten to remove the complaint. It is said that the loss of the company is due to you. Overall, these people run a cyber-fraud gang and their gangster Nitish Khawani, when they get more complaints on one company, they start another company. I have got all the evidence against them in the last 2-- 3 years, all fake companies created by this nitish khawani are trapped in the net and who gave the rupees, and who have not given them and are also receiving threatening calls from them. If anyone else is there, then send me the fake shot of your message, email their email, send me the screen shot of their messages and send me the recording of threatened calls from them on And no one fears. They are all fake, their other companies who have closed it and those who have blackmailed you in the name of any other company which has data entry jobs, captcha filling jobs, form filling jobs, then they can also tell me your problem. I have information available I have information about this whole racket. I am writing these names of their fake companies who are not afraid of people who have given money or are being tortured right now Rise infotech, Flarial enterprise, Wifinity corporation, Infinity Solutions, Spectrum technology, Sphere services, Keydus technologies, Stone technology, Crosoft technology, Asvegis technology, DIGI class service, aclema enterprise, Stepway services, Inospire service, Lectrema technology, Evoston technology, Ino service, DG Technology, DG Service, DI Service, DC Service, Uni Service, F.C Service, S.c servic, S.O Service, Truecept infotech, Crosoft technology, Mod Technology, Mod tech, Gleam Technologies, Shree Krishna Communication, Infenion Technology, Mentro solution, Ulike Technology, Eva Technology, DM Technocrates, MT Technology, GS Solution, Pje Enterprise, Pro Techno, Pro technologies, Digital Service There are also many companies, these people start a second when a company closes. Their actual location is telling of an rise infotech shop, it may change their location, but now all of them have been identified. Therefore, there is nothing to be afraid of friends who have been blackmailed in the name of these companies till date, please contact the nearest police station. Their actual location has also been tracked, they do a computer service and repair and sale business. The shop runs and simultaneously operates fake companies from book. The stamp of the agreement you have received has been purchased in the name of a huge person, he is also forged. So do not be afraid to panic, they are operating from infotech name in Surat by a private shop. You can complain to the nearest police station, commissioner office, Surat Commissioner Office, Surat Consumer Court, Office of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, MCA, you will be fully assisted by the people. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)