A person name karan paliwal s/o dinesh paliwal, saying as santosh kallepally is the number one fraud from ahmedabad. He will say that he is working at apple bangalore, and will show you a lost ex-employee apple id card to claim that he is from apple bangalore (But he is actually showing an expired old apple usa employee id card). So many people thinks that he is from apple india and pays him money via paytm for icloud unlocks or even for iphones under exchange. He first will take some money for icloud, and will say many excuses and then he offers iphone 7 or 8 models and claim that he can give these phones for just few rupees as apple india staff and will ask to deposit more money to his account. His mobile number is always switched off and after few hrs he will call back on all those numbers which he seems to be a new catch for him. He will also say that dont call him as he is working in apple, and only to whatsapp. He is the number one icloud and other apple replated fraud in india, and cheating poeple since 2015. He may be cheated more than lacs of rupees from innocent people and still i wonder why he is not arrested by police. He will also show as a letter from apple claiming that they are selling higher end phones for below prices, to fool customers again!!! He uses multilple mobile numbers, even taken from himachal pradhesh to scam people, he regularly uses these numbers. [protected],[protected],[protected] Name: karan paliwal s/o dinesh paliwal with pan card number cuppp1628e (Dob : 18/10/1994) and aadhar no :[protected] in olx claiming to be person working in apple icare. His education is in maharshi dayanand sarswati university, oxford public school claiming as karan software solution owner from ahmedabad, gujarat. Sbi account no. [protected]. https://www.facebook.com/fakerdogkaranpaliwal/ Please make sure that you dont deal with this guy any more. He is using facebook and google multiple accounts to enter on olx sites and to scam people. He is scamming people and took lacs of rupees since year 2015.