Respected Sir/ Madam Few days back i received a winning lottery mail from UK national lottery and i gave my personal details also ( my phone number and address). Now i received confromation mail from them.I searched in Google and i felt that it is all fake!!! please guide me what to do now? do i have any threat from them? please reply  me. I am also attaching the conformation mail which i received from UK lottery.please find that mail bellow. Thank you. Madhavi [protected][protected][protected][protected][protected][protected][protected][pr... ⇄ [UK National Lottery Logo] UK NATIONAL LOTTERY CLAIMS AND RELEASE DEPARTMENT. GOVERNMENT ACCREDITED LICENSED!!! UK NATIONAL ONLINE INTERNATIONAL LOTTERY IS REGISTERED UNDER THE DATA PROTECTION ACT OF; (Registration U971133B). FROM: Mr William Preacher. SUBJECT: PAYMENT APPROVAL. ATTN:P.Madhavi, Congratulations from our entire staff. We are glad to inform you that, we have duly completed our payout modalities, We have signed all the necessary document with all the relevant authority. We hereby officially inform you that,  after all necessary modalities have being carried out we find you worthy of the winning amount of £1, 750,  000.00 GBP (One Million Seven Hundred And Fifty Thousand Pound sterling).Your prize-winning has been endorsed by The British Gaming Board. On that note the Lottery Corporation Payment Service (L.C.P.S) has issued and endorsed your winning cheque.You have been authorized to cash your cheque in your country, as soon as you receive it from the courier/dispatch company.To this end your cheque has been handed over to our affiliated Dispatch/Courier company for quick delivery to your destination(YOUR ADDRESS AS INDICATED IN THE CLAIMS FORM),  as the lucky winner of category 2,  with Ref.No:BL/94202/08, as you would advice. You are hereby advised to make direct contact with the Dispatch/Courier company,  for the quick delivery of your cheque and some of your other relevant documents,  such as your lottery winning certificate etc. Find below the contact details of the Dispatch/Courier company. CONTACT SKYNET COURIER SERVICE AND DISPATCH SERVICE. SkyNet Worldwide Express Lawrence Road,  Hounslow Middlesex,  TW4 6DR. Contact Person.Garry Moore. TELEPHONE:  +[protected] Email:   [protected]@yahoo.co.uk You are adviced to send the courier company a mail to their email address for  their delivery modalities.When contacting them, you are to include this order number as your subject. ORDER NUMBER:SNT/98046. Please you are advised to write down the order number and save it.You are also required to send them your order number, it is in comfirmity for further verification of your claims before they can have your parcel posted to you. You are to Quote your complete names,  Ref/Batch Numbers and your direct phone number and your home address so that they can honour your letter. Once again i say congratulations and always inform us of your dealings with the dispatch/courier company. Most importantly,  you will be responsible for the charges,  for the delivery of your parcel, as we have earlier informed you. Notice: You have being given 7(Seven)days ultimatum to receive your parcel,  failure for you to comply,  your cheque will be returned back to the issuing house,  and subsequently you will end up losing your winnings/funds.Most importantly, you will be responsible for the delivery of your cheque. Please take note. Congratulations once more our proud winner.Please do ensure that you put this money into good use.And we hope to meet you in the nearest future. Yours Sincerely, Mr William Preacher, Foreign Services Manager, Claims Processing And Release Department, UK National Lottery, England, UNITED KINGDOM [UK National Lottery Logo] COPYRIGHT © 2008 ALL RIGHT RESERVED Sent from Yahoo! Mail. A Smarter Email.