Dear Sir/Madam, 

I, K.C.S.Desikan from Plot No.23, "VISHNU", F-2, Arignar Anna Street, 
Vellakkal, Nanmangalam, Chennai – 600117 am making this complaint with
regards to the broadband connection which is yet to be established.

Your agent collected a cheque for Rs.1099/- on 06/06/2014 from me
towards new broadband connection. SIM No. given by him is
[protected].Installation request No.24356232. (Your Agent's Mobile No.
[protected])

Against the payment made I have received a message from your end on
10/06/2014 at 20.37.19 hours, stating that my installation request
24356232 is being processed and will take approx. 3 working days.

We have received not even a single proper feedback from either your
representative or your customer care for the past 3 weeks. We even got
a feedback from one of your representatives saying we will get a
cheque for the mentioned amount returned to us and we will not be
provided with a broadband connection.

We do get frequent calls from different Airtel Representatives
requesting for our address, landmark and location & I have been
patient enough to reply them each and every time and I am really
unhappy to say that till date no one has really turned up. And
another interesting fact is that there is already an existing Airtel
broadband connection in my flat which was provided in the year of
2014.

The latest communication I had with Your Representative identified as
Venkatesh was on Wednesday (18/06/2014) and his confirmation was that
we will get the connection by end of day, still it has not been
initiated so far.

To be frank, there has been a lot of mental unrest for the past 3 weeks
due to all the false promises from Your Representatives and Your
Co-ordinators. With all the above valid data I think You have been
clearly violating the guidelines laid down for the minimum and maximum
turn around time for establishing a connection and I am entitled to
seek some legal advice if necessary.

Requesting you to take this up urgently and respond aptly & be
compensated for the trouble I have been through with Your
Representatives.

With regards, 
KCS Desikan