Dear sir, I was not aware of the point system as previously for last 3 years I was using you service and never this wallet based point system was there once. Mr Karthik had not mentioned this over phone. I was called continuously on the last few days telling that this is year end offer and you need to avail this immediately and I didn't had any time to go through the document which you had sent and I had transfer the amount you are send me the offer 6:26 p.m. on March 31st and I had made the payment immediately. I hadn't gone through the document as i was using your service for last years . It was not activated the same day for your information . after 2 days only, on the second day or third day only I had tried loged login while travelling in bus and immediately the moment I found the points getting reduced, i called and send Watsapp message to Karthik and said, I don't want this wallet based service and return the amount. I had send the mail telling that I don't want this service your providing I started using, the moment I came to know, I had informed Karthik that I don't want this service as it was a point system. ALL these points whichever you are telling is a usage of within 1 hour on the very first day. you can please check again. so it is actually cheating that you are delivering a product which is not required by the customer, misinforming through phone, and putting pressure on me telling it was last day of financial year. This is not used by the customer, which is not suitable for the customer and you are telling that cannot be taken back as you are delivering a service for a period of 1 year for which I had used only for one day. I never expected Tendertiger, to be such a crooked company just for looting the customers money you are puting people over there and putting the month end pressure, taking money and giving some other offers in writing which hardly will be noted by the customer. For that you are telling once THE PAYEMNT IS DONE THAT WILL will never refundED amount back - This was not mentioned in the document or earlier taking money from me. Else I would have been cautious. You are well aware that being a customer in India as a judicial system is so slow and you will never have to refund any amount and cheat anyone you are taking advantage of this system. But however I will try to get some justice considering my mental trauma, financial losses. Yours faithfully, Lalson Jacob v Forwarded message[protected] From: Vaibhav Patel Date: Fri, 14 Nov 2025, 4:35 pm Subject: RE: VERY URGENT. Re: Request for cancellation of services and refund of subscription amount. To: Cc: KARTIK KUSHWAH, , Dear Mr. Lalson Jacob, Greetings from TenderTiger. This is with reference to your recent Call regarding cancellation of services and refund of subscription amount. After reviewing the complete email trail and internal records, we would like to clarify the following: Before payment, our Sales Executive, Mr. Kartik, had clearly shared the proposal with complete service details including: Wallet-based plan Point consumption structure List of services covered (Tenders, Results, BOQ, Analytics, AI tools, etc.) Pricing and discount details (Refer to email dated 31 March 2025 sent at 6:26 PM, where the above details were documented and shared.) You acknowledged and made the payment only after reviewing the service details and commercial terms. Your account was activated immediately, and service access was provided along with onboarding support. As per the usage log, you have also consumed 1850 wallet points so far, that shows your system usage. As per company policy, Wallet-based subscription plans are non-refundable, since: Wallet validity Wallet can be used for all TenderTiger services No lock-in restriction – pay only if you use the service The same terms were communicated to you in writing prior to payment. We understand that you may have stopped using the service after your initial usage. However, non-usage of service post activation cannot be considered as a reason for refund, especially when: Services were delivered, Wallet points were consumed, and Terms and charges were disclosed transparently before payment. Hence, refund is not applicable, as services have been delivered as per the agreed terms. Should you require any support regarding usage or tender requirements, please feel free to contact us at [protected]@tendertiger.com Looking forward to assisting you further. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)