My name is Krishna and I'm the Country Manager at an ed-tech company named Superprof based in Paris, France. We were in touch with JUYF representatives Darshan P Jain ([protected]@cms.ac.in) and Kaushik Parameshwaran ([protected]@cms.ac.in) regarding a refund of the amount 1, 50, 000 INR. Superprof transferred this amount way back in February 2023 with the intent of collaborating for Jain University Youth Festival which was cancelled due to some political tensions. (Here is what we found online regarding the issue: Police have charged the principal of the Jain deemed-to-be university, the dean, the event organisers, and the student performers under IPC section 153A and the SC and ST (prevention of atrocities) Act, 1989, in response to a complaint filed by the social welfare department.) Superprof has been in contact with Darshan and Kaushik since March regarding the refund. Apparently, it is August now and the representatives/management has failed to handle the refund. The whole communication process with Darshan and Kaushik since May has been a nightmare and quite unprofessional. To escalate this concern, we filled out a Grievance Redressal Form on Jain University's website. We are also seeking contact details of the following: 1. Dr. Chenraj Roychand - Chancellor, 2. Dr. N. Sundararajan - Pro Chancellor 3. Dr. Dinesh Nilkant - Director - Center for Management Studies Superprof has been extremely professional and patient through these months only anticipating the same from Jain University representatives and management. It is a shame that an educational institution like Jain University with such a presence across PAN India is resorting to this kind of financial fraud. We are anticipating to hearing from the university's management/dean/chancellors or anyone from the higher order to refund the amount of 1, 50, 000 INR to Superprof. If they fail to do so, our legal team will be obligated to lodge a complaint with the police authorities in India and in France. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)