I have recd. the following e-mail. Please check the representative's where about and take action in this regards ACCOUNT REPRESENTATIVE'S DETAIL: ACCOUNT NAME: Suban Shaikh ACCOUNT NUMBER:[protected] BANK NAME: Icici Bank PAN NO: ABLPI0658J BRANCH: Malad West Thanking you, Kaushik Ghosh ACCOUNT REPRESENTATIVE'S DETAIL! From: InterLink Express Ltd. <[protected]@live.co.uk>Add to Contacts To: [protected]@yahoo.co.in [protected][protected][protected][protected] Dear Valued Customer KAUSHIK GHOSH, Inter-Link Express Courier, our goal and mission is to provide quality logistical solutions which exceed our expectations at a competitive price. Our aim of providing global excellence in transportation is provided by our staff members and worldwide suppliers who are here to serve your requirements through the next century. suppliers who are here to serve your requirements through the next century. In reference to your last email, i want you to know that below is the full details of our account representative's which you have to use in depositing the delivery charges into the account. Be advice that you are to deposit the sum of £575.00 GBP = 45,811.08 INR into the account that is listed below as cash deposit and send to us the scan copy of the payment deposit slips. ACCOUNT REPRESENTATIVE'S DETAIL: ACCOUNT NAME: Suban Shaikh ACCOUNT NUMBER:[protected] BANK NAME: Icici Bank PAN NO: ABLPI0658J BRANCH: Malad West You are to deposit the Total Cost of £575.00 GBP = 45,811.08 INR into the account and send back to us the scan copy of the deposit slip as the payment confirmation to this courier company. Be informed that you are to make the payment as cash deposit and once that is done and payment confirmed we shall proceed with the delivery of your winning parcel. Please send your response within the next 24hrs to this same email address. Thanks for your understanding, We are glad to be of service to you. MR.  HILTON WATTFORD CUSTOMER SERVICE OFFICER CUSTOMER ENQUIRY AND INFORMATION DEPARTMENT INTER-LINK EXPRESS COURIER Address: #6979, Roeduck Lane, Smethwick, West Midlands, UK E-mail:  [protected]@live.co.uk ................................................................................... ⇄ ................................................................................... ⇄ This e-mail (including any file attachment) contains confidential information and/or may also be legally privileged. It is intended solely for the use of the named addressees and any unauthorized dissemination or use by any other person or entity is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient you should not transmit, copy, print, disclose or otherwise make use of and/or place any reliance on this e-mail and its contents. If you have received this e-mail in error, you should immediately notify the sender by return e-mail and delete all copies from your system. The views, opinion or advice as may be contained herein are those of the sending individual and do not necessary represent that of Inter-Link Express Courier or bind Inter-Link Express Courier. E-mails can be corrupted, altered or falsified and Inter-Link Express Courier shall not be liable for any alteration or falsification on this e-mail. Your package is our pride customised solutions to suit your need worldwide, door to door service, that is a promise. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)