Dear Sir, there were couple of Advertisements posted on the website MAGICBRICKS for renting out property in CLEO COUNTY (Details of advertisement given in Appendix 1). I got the phone number of the person from the website and spoke with him on 24.01.2022 at 8.17 am. Over the next few days we spoke few more times to finalize the rent and other modalities. He claimed to be an officer with the CRIME BRANCH. A person named Mr. Ashok Kumar (mobile number [protected]) posing as the son of owner of Flat 1601 in C5 Block spoke with me and negotiated the final rent at Rs. 36000/- plus maintenance. He said that the other property belongs to his sister and they own 3 flats in the same complex. We agreed to go ahead with the agreement so that I could shift with my family on 1st of February. He then asked me to transfer the Security Deposit of 2 months and 1 months rent in advance so that he could prepare the Rent Agreement and get the Police Verification done within the next few days. I told him that I can't give all the amount then and requested him to not speak with any other tenant. He agreed with the condition that I give him a token amount of Rs. 10000/- and give the balance on 1st of February when he hands over the keys of the flat to me. I said that as it was nearing the end of the month, I can transfer Rs. 4000/- and give him the balance when we meet. He agreed to it and shared with me on 25.01.2022 the following account number: Satendar Panwar Account Number [protected] IFSC KKBK000205 Delhi Okhla Branch Kotak Bank I immediately transferred the amount to him and shared the details on sms and [protected]@gmail.com. He then asked me to share with him all my details (Aadhar Card, Pan Card, Photograph, Driving Licence, and Digital Signature). I did that as well with the belief that these are required for preparing the rent agreement. He then called me on 30.01.2022 and said that as he is bit busy, he has requested an agent to get the Police Verification done and for that I have to transfer Rs. 2000/- (for the stamp paper and the agent's charges) through Google Pay to either [protected] (Subodh Kumar) or [protected] (Situ Kumari). Ashok Kumar sent me a draft tenancy agreement and asked me to immediately fill it up and send it back and send the money without delay. I immediately transferred the amount and send him the updated Tenancy Agreement. I called on that number [protected] to confirm receipt of the amount. A person took the call and said that he would get the Police Verification and Rent Agreement done by the end of the day. I tried reaching Ashok Kumar on 31.01.2022 few times during the day as my family was supposed to reach the following day but he didn't take my call. I then got in touch the Property Manager and asked him to verify the owner's details for Flat 1601 of C5 Block but he gave some other name. I confronted Ashok Kumar on this after he took my call on repeated calling and sending him a SMS and he said that there would be some confusion. After that he has stopped taking my call. with regards Dr. Anshuman Tripathy Appendix 1 Property ID[protected] https://www.magicbricks.com/propertyDetails/3-BHK-2070-Sq-ft-Multistorey-Apartme... ⇄ Property ID[protected] https://www.magicbricks.com/propertyDetails/3-BHK-1620-Sq-ft-Multistorey-Apartme... ⇄ Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)