This is to inform you all www.Tendersinfo.com is sending fraud phishing scam email to steal email password & bank account information. So customer should beware of such fraud website. Here is the proof below & attached screen shot. Kindly find below a email i have received from the company euclid infotech pvt ltd / tendersinfo solutions private limited [ www.tendersinfo.com ] situated at 202, eden rose centre, beverly park, kanakia road, mira road - east, mumbai -401107,.. I received a email from bhavesh mange [ bhavesh. [protected]@tendersinfo. Ae ] mentioned a subject "important payment: 08072017. Pdf" so i clicked the pdf link its a suspicious i hereby attached the screen shot. Then i try to open the link in different browser its a fake link duplicate gmail login page screen shot attached. If i bimistakenly clicked & logined on that link all my userid & password will be send to them then they can steal my bank account password and all which is stored in my gmail. The guy who send me a email his name is bhavesh mange cell no: [protected] working in tendersinfo.com as accountant ca. Tendersinfo.com have send me this fake gmail suspicious login bypass link to steal my password & bank details the link as follows.. So everybody should beware of tendersinfo.com emails as they can also steal your personal detail & password by sending tenders email as well so customer should think before subscribing to tendersinfo service is a fraud, doing phishing scam attack, doing cheating, doing misleading, doing copyright infringement, stealing tender information from other website as many complaints are verified by advertising standards council india.. I have shown this fraud phishing email to mira road, kanakia police station official they have checked and said this is fraud give me application now. So i said i will make and bring the application so i can file a police complaint against tendersinfo.com for sending phishing scam attack email. This is the duplicate gmail link done by tendersinfo to steal passwords: https://wwww.gdo.cs.com.chuppay.com/erserviceassivetrue1&ltmpl1&flowNameLogServi... ⇄ Tendersinfo don't ever think to give excuse now that this email was not send by you.. So if you tell lie here to save your company fraud we will make a police complaint let see how you can tell lie to police. If you tell lie to police as they can track this phishing email and provide you the proof and you will be punished under cyber crime case also tendersinfo.com domain could be in trouble Tendersinfo freetrial, signup, tendersinfo membership service review: worldwide, global tendersinfo.com service is fraud in the market.. Its a spammer, phishing scam, stealer... All proof attached. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)