Breach of contract, extortion, after paying, they demand to pay more or threaten us... Sfl, secure financial limited, uk address: 51 tomlins close, hutton, brentwood, essex, cm13 1pu, united kingdom. An organised criminals who are in this type of busienss, they have more than 100 websites with fake names. See below We have reported to uk police and the concerned authorities with feds. Wire fraud, criminals stealing businesses with fake sblc offers... We were scammed by this company in november 2018 These people issue a contract offering an sblc/bg from a prime bank hsbc. The owner of the company is philis osborn. Philis osborn contacted me that he is an honest guy who is a god fearing british citizen, issuing sblc for 30yrs. He will not give his id proof, he will have a ceo name peter jm van ginkel, with a netherland passport, but claims to be holding a securities account in hsbc uk. He created a fake spoofed hsbc, emails with the name [protected]@hscb.com. Our bank received the email rwa. As per contract we paid the agreed and mentions swift fees. He instructed us to pay the swift fees to his netherland account $15750 usd. His swift costs remained the same for 3 months, immediately 2days after the payment, he sent another fake email pretending to be hsbc banker, demanding that the swift cost went up, therefore, pay another 10.500usd. We said, okay show us the evidence the initial fees were paid to the banker? Or give us atv to see if there is a legitimate skr available? Or instead of 20million sblc, give us only 10million sblc. Or we will come and meet you at the bank. So far, no response, the sol called philip oborn kept messaging me, its a shame we are issuing sblc every day, it is your bad luck, you could have gotten the swift by now. You are not cooperating. You did not pay enough payment. Then we said, what about your irrevocable refund undertaking. The so-called scammers argue that only works if the swift goes and then the swift is not verifiable then only they refund fees.in order to send the swift, we must pay every time they demand the fees. What a criminal, an easy money to scam. When further researched, it turned out to be the so-called peter van ginkel never existed, we tried to send message in a dutch language and he then claims his name is andrea, he is an assistant to peter van ginkel, if he can not speak dutch, and van ginkel cannot speak english, then what language do they communicate... I suppose a language called scammers? So my sincere and advice and a lesson to learn is, whenever they demand to pay the upfront fees and convince us with so-called banker email, its best to ask for banker business card or atv, an authorization to verify the availability of sblc. Or go meet them at the bank, it only costs $2000 of a flight versus feeding these criminals who message you that they believe in jesus, very god-fearing, anointing of the holy spirit. Then when i ask my money, this so-called andrea, pretending to be peter vanginkel message me abusing me that he curses to kill my family. Be very careful with this organized criminals Their email ids are... [protected]@gmail.com, and [protected]@securefinanceltduk.com, Skype id. Live:723d8d4304221e68 skype id: live:osborn. Ph If any of you have any questions please contact me at... [protected]@usa.net, i have made payment, they will not return the money, and can not prove anything.