Dear Sir/Madam I am a Singaporean Tamil female. Recently a Youtuber by the name Subbalakshmi Balavinayagam @ Rowdy Bay Surya (RBS) of Surya Media residing in Madurai: (a)	made threats to me saying that she will misuse my photograph, misuse my voice, and say that I am soliciting her for prostitution, that she will do anything she likes to me with her contacts based in Singapore, post my photo and contact details on any sex-based app and vulgarly abused my mother and husband. (b)	She then posted my photograph and contact details on her Youtube community page without any authorization stating that I am an ‘agent’ for those who are seeking jobs in Singapore and that they can contact me. RBS is well known for being a sex worker as she has mentioned in many of her videos in Youtube (c)	She also posted my photo and contact details to a Sri Lankan Sex based app. As a result, I had to undergo the trauma and suffering of: (a)	thousands of phone calls and messages first from Indian based people and secondly from Sri Lankans asking for sexual services (b)	attempting suicide twice (c)	separation from my husband and family I was supported by some other Youtube channels who wanted to bring justice for me but was advised by the police that these are not arrestable offences, there is nothing they can do but suspend her account and that they need me to make a police report for them to take further action and on the top of it these are bailable offences. Until today RBS is roaming freely and continue to abuse people on social media. No action has been taken against her, not even for questioning. It has been exactly a month and RBS has even mocked at the police for not being able to do anything to her. Sir, I have a few questions: (a)	if this happens to a female member in your family, would the same laws apply. (b)	will it not affect tourists and visitors to your country and my country thinking that prostitution is easily available in both countries. (c)	can RBS give me back my family and my life. (d)	what can you do in your capacity to seek justice for me? I contacted 3 people from Madurai Cybercrime office but they refused to even answer their calls or just kept silent when they answered. Do you need me to take a flight and make a police report in Chennai or Madurai. Please let me know whether that is the only way. It may seem like a rash act, but it has shattered my life and peace. What can you do to help me? https://youtu.be/K-mo3EMc4E0?t=296 Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)