Sir, I have got an email that i am a prize winner of 850,000 Great Britain Pound Sterling. Is this a Fake mail or Is it True? I wish to get a reply from you to know about this... This is the mail that i got from the company.. Contact Courier Company For Delivery‏ Inbox X Reply BMW AUTOMOBILE COMPANY . to me show details 2:31 PM (5 hours ago) PROMOTION DEPARTMENT OF THE BMW AUTOMOBILE COMPANY. 22 Garden Close, Stamford, Lincs, PE9 2YP, London United Kingdom. Reference Dear Prize winner: Sarath K S, I wish to congratulate you once again on behalf of the Bmw Automobile Company Online Promotion for been selected as one of our lucky winner on our 2010 Award programs The entire Bmw Automobile Company express our full felicitation with you and your family. I'm proud to inform you that your winning details has been processed and verified by this office based on the winning data you have submitted as follows; (i)Serial No:BMWP/[protected] (ii)Ref No: BMW:[protected]/23. Thus all the legal documentations for the remittance of your prize has been processed successfully,hence your payment of (850,000.00) Eight Hundred And Fifty Thousand Great Britain Pound Sterling has been approved to you for claims. A Certified Cheque has been issued in your name by the Bmw Automobile Company (UK) and authorized by the British Gaming Board. You are to immediately contact EMIRATE SKY CARGO COURIER COMPANY LIMITED for delivery of your certified cheque to your designated address, and for further instruction on when your certified cheque will be delivered to your nominated address. Kindly contact emirate sky cargo Courier Service with the below contact details; Emirate Sky Cargo COURIER COMPANY CONTACT DETAILS; MR.CLEVER NELSON (DISPATCH MANAGER) Email-: [protected]@europe.com Tel:[protected] (Emirate Sky Cargo COURIER COMPANY LIMITED,UK). Do note that on contact with the courier company, you are to provide them with your Full Name: Age: Phone Number: Residential address: Scan copy of ID proof: This will enable the Dispatch Manager verify your claim with the files which has been sent to them. Included in this letter is your Serial number to be used when claiming your parcel. Your Serial number is "{BMWP/[protected] }". This number should be kept strictly confidential by you, as you will use it in all your corresponding with the delivery company. Please note: We have paid for your certified parcel courier charges, the only fee you are liable to pay for is your country customs stamp duty/Notarization Clearance fee of (Rs.18,500 INR), for approval of your certified parcel delivery by the Indian Customs. Notice: All winners should bear in mind that we have sworn a "Letter Of Affidavit" with the British High Court Of Justice, stating that the issued cheque worth Eight Hundred And Fifty Thousand Great Britain Pound Sterlings must not be deducted from until it gets to the winner and must reached the Beneficiary in its original value. Please be warned: For security reasons, you are advised to keep your winning information confidential till your certified cheque is given to you. This is part of our precautionary measure to avoid unwarranted impersonation or abuse of this program by some individual. Congratulations! once again. Best Wishes!!, Mr.Philp Donald, Waiting For your Reply, Sarath K.S iam18en.[protected]@gmail.com