This complaint being logged to address a significant internet scam going on with intellipaat company. All together 3 folks registered for sap s4 hana finance course in july 22nd for the aug 8th live course. Two days prior to the class start reached out to siri jacob (Most likely a fake name) course advisor to share the details of the live course and finally received a call back on the day of the class and mentioned due to system issues class is being rescheduled. Since 3 o[censored]s registered together, we each were given access also to pre-recorded session videos, but all of sudden we noticed they had taken that access out as well, plus all the other sap free training videos were pulled from social media as well. (Youtube, facebook, instagram etc). We did a complete check and came to find out that every sap link they tried to hide so it is either getting redirected to the main intellipaat homepage or the url not getting resolved but as you know google still keeps the records. If this was purely a system issue, then it would’ve only affected course learning management system not youtube or other social media since that all not hosted via the company itself. Long story short. We tried contacting multiple times and their support # is terrible and first of all they don’t have a ticketing system to log issues and phone support manually send instant message to someone and tech support simply say someone will call back in 1/2 hr and you never get a call back. Finally after numerous calls, i got a call back and the person stated there is system issue and they don’t know what happened and they would refund full money in a day or two. I waited and after days no refund and started from square one with new call and support don’t have any prior history or knowledge and finally after a day i get the call from diwakar. As per the phone call we informed - 3 o[censored]s are not interested in enrolling in any other non-sap free courses. We mentioned two days prior to the course start we came to know intellipaat is no longer offering any sap courses for any students all of sudden as we were informed due to your system glitches or something related to the company sap legal-specific issues. We requested a full refund for 3 o[censored]s totaling $1, 500 usd. As per their stated policy "in case intellipaat cancels an event, 100% refund will be paid to the delegate." during phone conversation, diwakar was not willing to refund the money fully and he wanted to keep the money by luring each o[censored]s to take a non-sap self-learning course, which we declined. Also he only wanted to pay 50% back. All the email proofs and call phone recordings available. If the company lies about anything, this will be used to proof who is telling the truth. We 3 are now proceeding legally against all the intellipaat registered training center[s] and the lawyer is working on this case. Also - we have approached politician to look into this matter to check if this company is running a fake training center. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)