On 12th July, 2019, at midnight/early morning, sucpicious/fraduelent transaction made by a hacker and used up all NQAC Gocash+ worth 686, to make a flight booking, Gocash+ was having unlimited validity and no usage restrictions. I am a gold member of Goibibo and using the account from last 4 and half to 5 yearsAs soon as I came to know about it the fraduelnt transaction, I reached out to Goibibo customer care and raised a complaint/service request number 28690222, and also 28742851, after more than 15 days this complaint is pending, first they told its with speciality team, then they say its with technical team, after not getting satisfactory resolution I raise it to Goibibo Management team, almost 4-5 times I raised to them but they didnt provided me any resolution yet. Complaint / Service Request Number: 28690222 when tracked online says "Your case is already being reviewed by our Management team, we shall connect back with you for the best we can do to help you." Complaint / Service Request number: 28742851 says: "Your case has been reviewed by our Management team and a logical closure has already been shared with you, for any further queries please feel free to reply to the existing service request.". This is totally false and nobody from Management team cared to mail me or call me for the resolution. When I recently called Goibibo customer care they say complaints and service requests are being reviewed by Management team or specialist team or technical team and after couple of days they resolve this issues by them selves without even contacting me on phone or email. So I keep raising it on Goibibo write to Management again and again every couple of days. However, after no resolution from Goibibo is frustrating so I thought to raise this complaint online to get soultion and also to bring it to notice & help other users. I want Goibibo to support me with following items to Resolve my issue: (1) Credit 686 Worth NQAC worth Gocash+ to my account immediatley without any usage restrictions and unlimited validity. (2) Allow me to Change my Login information such as Email ID and Mobile Number to move my account away from fraudsters attention. (3) Take stern action against those, we hacked my account and used my account for booking their booking on 12th july 2019. (4) Goibibo do not have cyber crime or cyber scam related policy or any team to work against such fraud so please create team against such fraud and cyber crimes and help users immediatly if in case such a scenarios happens. Awaiting Goibibo to look into this immediately and hopefully they will resolve my matter immediatey once reading this complaint or review. -Rashmin Joshi