Inbox Write Failure notice [protected]@rediffmail.com Fri, 22 dec 2017 22:20:24 Hi. This is the qmail-send program at rediffmail.com. I'm afraid i wasn't able to deliver your message to the Respected sir, A nationalised bank issued credit card in favour of me and offered me a draft less than rs 40000 in a lower interest which to be paid in low interest earlier. They omitted their commitment and generated falls statement months after months. Though i spent a large portion of my income to repay the emi's regularly (Except two or three months). But statement amount going high. It became nearly rs320000 (I still not know what %they taken) in more than one year after payments regular basics. The said bank gave me and my family a great trouble regular basis even my 75 yrs mother got no relief from them. I became defaulter in others loan as i had to pay share portion of my income to the said bank. I knock the door bank ombudsman earlier and got no any clear judgement at that time. But i think as a result the said bank sent me only... Only 'no dues statement' without explaining any transaction. By without paying any amount by me. I was younger then and thought matter was closed. But present in case of any loan my cibil score stand like a barrier. Cibil developed history against borrower by receiving input from lender. I want to know who makes history of the said types of banker who behaved so as the customer's became ruined. Sir, may i appeal again against the same bank for doing worse with me. It was watched by me that cibil takes care of lenders and made easy for loans disbursment or approvals but it should not be expected from cibil as a civilian. I accept the process of keeping history of borrower as it performed by the borrower. My question is that, have cibil maintained any tools to judge that special bank or financial institution who performed unjustification with a customer. Suppose i am the borrower and x is the bank. I took loan and the said bank got business. If any discrimency occured by me against my loan, cibil kept record which supplied by the bank and generate a history of borrower which effects his financial aspect throughout life. Wheras that bank who doing wrong with the borrower and great mistake done carefully, and not rectified before any forum or law decisions. May cibil keep any record for that bank?. May cibil take any feedback from borrower? If not, how it possible to makeing a history or judgement which is very valuable only for borrowers not the bankers. My suggestion: A colume to be introduced in the loan form as declaration that will you suffered by bank at any instance. It also be clearly to be written in cibil website. Bank always try to escape the fault they have done. What is the process to know the banker's past history. Cibil will judge the incident. If the incident goes against banker, a posstive marking to be added to the borrower. I am not so educated like other financial expart but it needed to generate actul history of borrower otherwise it acted oneeyed judgement. Thank you sir. Reply Reply all Forward More