Dear sirs, 


I would like to tell you that a scam which is going on olx.com though the site is safe to use and its intension is to help people to buy, sell and advertise about own products but some peoples are using olx.com to loot innocent people like me (Anil).


While surfing on olx adds, i found sony bravia 47” inches kdl 47 x 800a television selling at cheap price of rs 52000 /- which includes free shipping and handling charges from uk by the name of the company home makers electronics uk andelectronic traders limited. Later i have been come to know that i have been cheated at olx.com by a fake advertisements. He had not provided his phone number. So, i mailed him and expressed my desire to buy the above model television to present my sister on her birthday cum anniversary day.


Later, i got an email from fake adds person is mr. Robert dennis & mr. Mark stating that the price list of cheapest television list. He told me to deposit initial shipping amount of rs 5500 /- and remaining amount after delivery at door step.


 After payment of rs 5500/- they given me tracking number dsc38956 on fake created courier web sites http://dynetuk. Ciki. Me/track. Php & www. widerangelog.com/home containing no contract office numbers. The bank numbers which they given to me to deposit money is beneficiary customer name as fabrice zouoni and hdfc acoount number [protected] bearing branch no kalyannager bangalore karnataka 560043 hdfc 0000353. The indian mobile numbers of robert dennis [protected], mr. Mark [protected] & fake courier delivery officier norman bruce is [protected]. Uk no: 0044-[protected], 0044-[protected] 
 
Later again they called me to deposit of rs 12100 /- (Twelve thousand and one hundred rupees) towards customs charges. I agreed and paid the same amount and provided fake customs and excise receipt in my name. Again the same called and inform me that security person not allowing then to take parcel at new delhi airport on 10 june 2014, i they request me to pay rs 16000 /- towards anti terrorism clearance certificate which i very much denied to pay the amount.

 Later i taken the above issue to my wife classmate friend who is working in karnataka as dsp terrorism depart ment to trace out their mobiles networks and bank details. After deep investigation, it is realized that this a cyber scam and they cheated me. The police officers told the mobile sim and bank accounts are not in their name. So its very difficult to catch them & they simply escaped as its non-profitable case to them. It was explained to me till date 400 to 500 cases are booked and non of the cases are sorted out. It is observed the police is very negligence in india and they are no responsible for this fakers. 

 The indian government having lake of poor knowledge and not taking the responsible to this to take precautions such frauds and eliminating methods are not implementing. The person who comes from other countries doing fraud in only bangalore city and booked cases 400 to 500 cases, but none of the person is least brother as they getting monthly income time to time and i have estimate this fraud cases in other states. …………………… anil [protected] & [protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)