I have to file a complaint against craze n demand (C n d store) based out in surat, gujarat. Address: i have to file a complaint against craze n deman (C n d store) based out in surat, gujarat. B30, first floor, shubham industries, saniya hemad gam, surat, gujarat, in 395006. I had placed an order number:[protected] from www.crazendemand.com on 17th june 2019 but i got to receive a wrong product on friday, 21st june 2019. I paid 1650/- (Including shipping). The received product is different in design pattern and color from what i had placed red banglory silk embroidery lehenga choli with blouse - dvdlmc9038b (For proof, images are attached naming showing on website dvdlmc9038b and placed order). Order id:[protected] Product name: red banglory silk embroidery lehenga choli with blouse - dvdlmc9038b Reason for return : wrong product Images of received product : naming begins with whatsapp image (3 images) I had requested to return the product from the account itself on the website on very next day of the order delivered. When i didn't get any response then i Sent an email with details requesting to return and refund full amount as they have mentioned on their website that in case of wrong product delivery Customer can go for exchange or full refund as per his wish. I also took follow ups on phone numbers [protected] and [protected] continuously but either they were not taking my call or not getting connect. After waiting and regular attempts on email and above numbers they replied and asked me to send the product on their address and said that customer will have to bear the courier charge. Despite, the mistake is at seller's end still they are saying customer will have to bear courier charge. The way they have been so irresponsible and unreachable most of time as well as denying from return and refund policy (Which are mentioned on the website), what is guarantee that they will put money in wallet after receiving the product and will send correct product. Either customer will have to bear courier cost if he wants to return the product or he will not any action feeling helpless. Thus, craze n demand will successfully clear their damaged and old inventory. This is the policy and intention using digital process to sell out their products. Disappointing fact is that they denying from what they have mentioned on the website and don't want to listen me. They are rigid what executives have been trained by said store. I am victim of digital fraud, mental harassment, faced breach of trust by craze n demand. And i want action against craze n demand (C n d store). Thanks Jitender kumar [protected]