Dear respected naukri team. This mail is to bring to your notice about a harassment faced by me today regarding job recruitment. I had received a call from mobile number : [protected] at 1:18 pm as on dated 13/08/2018, and had asked the called to that i shall call him back within half an hour as there was a network issue and we both trouble listening to each other. As, per our last discussion i had called him back at 1:30 pm (Within half an hour as promised) from my mobile phone number : [protected]. However, his phone was busy. He then called me back at 1:32 pm, and said that he has blocked my profile with your organization as i had not entertained his call in the first place. He then insisted that i was lying and started accusing me with false claims. I even apologized and requested him to listen to my concern for not being able to attend the call at the 1st place, but he was very adamant and ended up saying “ kyun du main apko aadha ghanta?”. On further insisting he even ended saying “ tum jo kaam kar rahi ho wahi karo, kyunki tumhara profile abhi block kar denge taki tum future maien kabhi apply na kar payo”. I am really surprised at such words coming from an employee of naukri.com which is supposedly the most known and the biggest recruitment channel in the country. The most astonishing part was that when i confronted him of his behavior towards a lady, he sounded very ignorant of the fact. We look up to your prestigious organization for opportunities and get seriously annoyed when we are mistreated. I do understand that being the most prominent recruiting medium you can get an alternative of mine very easily, and so we are bound to abide by certain behavioral aspects. My humble request to you is, please look into the matter as this can cause a serious damage to anyone’s career. I, also sincerely apologize for anything wrongly said by me. Awaiting for your kind and active perusal on the matter and also requesting to let me continue my naukri profile for future career opportunities.