Nitish Khawani, owner of this game's mastermind surat, has been running the cyber scam ka racket for many years, in the name of this fake fake company, fake advocate, fake lawyer, fake stamp, fake agreement, fake notice, fake case The needy, the unemployed, the poor people first enters into their net in the name of online data entry, form filling job, captcha filling job, home based job, and then creates a fake address, fake website, fake names, then good, offers easy job, good salary, income and a helpline no. Make available and say, if there is a problem, call it, then it takes their signature, photo, current location (gps tracking) of online applications and then a fake agreement (which has some conditions like 90% accuracy, fix time Period to complete work, 4800 consolation charge, 4800 penalty if work is not completed with the following conditions), which builds on an old counterfeit stamp, then provides online work only, then the wrong report of the work done by the people Sometimes, the work provided by them is very wrong and intriguing, which is easily Not only, or sometimes their provided application is not available, and when coming to the helpline or at the job, no. But when no one gives a reply on the call, and when the given time period is complete, by sending the mail, text massage, call threatening call to the company as a lawyer, in which many sections, IPC streams, works are written or ( Adding penalties + legal charge + GST ​​is written to pay the amount of[protected] and start threatening those trapped in their net, if you do not pay, you will do many cases, send court notice at home, 50000 will have to be filled properly, in this way this lawyer becomes the legal department of company daily massage, call, mail, and then torture till people give up money by scared or disturbed, and many times they start blackmail again and later a lawyer minhaz m. Let us send notice . There are also many companies, these people start a second when a company closes. Therefore, there is nothing to be afraid of friends who have been blackmailed in the name of these companies till date, please contact the nearest police station. Their actual location has also been tracked, they do a computer service and repair and sale business. The shop runs and simultaneously operates fake companies from book. The stamp of the agreement you have received has been purchased in the name of a huge person, he is also forged. Do FIR against Nitesh khawani go to police station/cybercrime office and complaint against him. Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (0)