Google incorporation Peter house, oxford st, Manchester m1 5an, United kingdom. Tel : +[protected] Attention: r. Aravind koomar Prize claim procedure A parcel containing your won demand draft and other documents has been sent to our correspondent and assigned attorney in india. You are advise to contact him via email immediately with the below contact details for further direction. Barrister joseph adams esq Email: [protected]@gmail.com Phone no: [protected] Contact him via email ([protected]@gmail.com) with your personal id. Proof, residential address and mobile number. He will direct and inform you on how your winning fund will be remitted into your bank account by the appropriate and approved financial institution (R. B. I). Thanks for being part of our program. Congrats!! Regards, Dr. June brown Event manager — (It's an another mail) B. Estermond, dsw, llb (Hons) bl, n. Mp. N Juris consults Head office: stoke rd, guildford gu1 4dh, uk eastern, united kingdom Associates:- Barrister rose. J. Freeman esq. (Int'l. Fin. Attorney) Barrister mr. Debbs gates (Llb, llm) Mr. Munachi e. Makiti (Protocol officer) Mrs. Kew west (S-b-a-l) Mrs. Grace edwards (Llm) Aisha ahmed (Solicitor & advocate) Dear:r. Aravind koomar I am the corresponding attorney to the google incorporation board in london. Firstly i congratulate you for been one of the lucky winners of the google email award 2017 held in london. I am pleased to inform you that your details and winning prize of five hundred thousand (500, 000.00 gbp) great british pounds equivalent to four crores seventy two lakhs rupees (4.72 crores) and documents such as winning certificate, fund approval letter and affidavit of claims was brought to my desk so as to assist you through the remitting procedure of your winning amount. Be informed that i have been in contact with the reserve bank of india to en-cash the demand draft as such huge amount can only been cashed in the reserve bank. As an attorney of the law, i am to follow and abide by the law of your country. I have been to the reserve bank of india and i have tendered all documents backing your winning amount to them which they have deemed satisfactory. Your won prize has been registered and lodged in r. B. I suspense account to be transferred directly to your local bank account. Please fill and send back to me the attached transfer application form via email so that i can submit it to r. B. I to enable them commence formalities and fund transfer process. Note: print out the form and fill with a pen and send back to my email Regards, Barrister joseph adams (They also send rbi money transfer form and also to send 18, 920 inr) —