Ref: Bharat Kumar tikona id: [protected] I are sorry to say that, tikona broadband service is not good. There is no proper connection, no proper service, and no proper concern person to solve our problem which i have been facing till date. Sir I want to tell that, I had change my residence from 37 nambuliyar street sowcarpet Chennai 79 to 441 mint street sowcarpet Chennai 79 which hardly half kilometre distance between both addresses and the same I had talk to our customer care in IVR on march 2015. They record all the conversation and assure me that our connection will be change very soon. Sir I have not receive the connection for two month but in your record there’s mentioned that the connection was sifted within few days which was actually not done. And the shocking news is billing not stopped. Because of not connection I had not pay the monthly rental as per my plan. Latterly I receiving a call from the Delhi high court that the case going to file against me for outstanding due for long time. With respect to advocate and Delhi high court, I have payed rs.3000/- approx. via internet banking desk. Afterword I raise a request in IVR to cancel broadband service again they assure me that the Rs.2000/- will be refunded and unused billed amount will be wave off in proceeding month so I continue the service. Past four or five month before customer care officer called me for outstanding amount then again I ask wave off amount. On that time they clearly told me that there is no wave off amount eligible for me. I am shocked, immediately I told to person on IVR to disconnect my connection but they not done anything. From that day to till date I’m regularly informing to customer care in IVR, the disconnection in-charge Mr: karthik in Chennai greams road office and Mr syed in Chennai but nobody was turned up. Finally on 18th feb 2016 a recovery team leader Mr. Rajesh send a person also named Rajesh. He collect all the instrument which tikona company provided me at the time of connection in and Rs. 2100/- cash for pending outstanding amount. Mr Rajesh assure me that after cancellation a mail or massage will be sanded for the conformation of cancellation. But sir, I still not received any mail or massage from tikona service. Team leader Mr. Rajesh m-[protected], collection person Rajesh m-[protected] and one more number is there but little doubt please check that also [protected]. And there head team leader Mr. kamal sir also know this matter. Now, I requesting that kindly cancel my broadband connection and acknowledge me with the complete cancellation. If company like to give waver amount now then adjust in outstanding amount (if pending)