SWISS LOTTERY BOARD is a fraud group who cheats over email by informing that you have selected for Lottery Prize and to make payments to Scarlett Couriers to receive the gift. Please don't get cheated. In UK, the mobile phone nos are to provided to anyone without photo ID. Hence the cheating is going on From: ©Swiss Lottery board <[protected]@charterinternet.com> Date: Sat, Jan 17, 2009 at 9:18 PM Subject: Winner 2009 To: Swiss On-line Lottery P o box 1010 Liverpool, L70 1nl United Kingdom Ref no: sl/74/368/05 Batch no: sl-121-lt[protected] Dear Beneficiary, You have won £1, 500, 000.00 GBP from our monthly PROGRAM, held on JANUARY 15th 2008. For your claims, contact Mr.Micheal Anderson, provide him your, Names, Address, Age, Occupation, Tel, Country. Contact Email: [protected]@live.co.uk Sincerely, Mrs. Rose Blair [protected][protected] From: SWISS LOTTERY CLAIMS AGENT <[protected]@live.co.uk> Date: Sun, Jan 18, 2009 at 11:00 PM Subject: CONTACT SCARLET COURIER FOR YOUR WINNING CHEQUE DELIVERY To: dschyundai.[protected]@gmail.com Swiss On-Line Lottery, 60 MERRIMAN ROAD BLACKHEATH LONDON SE3 8RZ ENGLAND WINNING PARAMETERS REF NO: SL/74/368/05 BATCH NO:SL-121-LT[protected] Congratulations Hubertson, On Behalf of the Screening Committee of SWISS ON-LINE LOTTERY, I wish to formally inform you that you have successfully passed the Email Screening and Verification Matching Test conducted for all online winners in accordance with the Swiss On-line Lottery Terms and Conditions. Hence you are therefore cleared for payment by the verifications and fund release department at the Swiss On-line Lottery Headquarters and your winnings has been duly signed and approved for release to you by the legal attorney to the Swiss On-line Lottery .. Your approved winning Certificate number is UK/9876125 Your winning Transfer Identification code is ELPC/MWT/0143 As you already know, all winners for the online version of the Swiss On-line Lottery Online promotions were selected through a computer ballot system drawn from an exclusive list of 30, 000, 000 e-mail addresses of individual and corporate bodies listed online as part of our international promotion to promote international co-operation between the United Kingdom and other countries worldwide and I must say that you should count yourself extremely lucky to have emerged as one of our winners in this week's lucky dip sweepstakes and we do sincerely hope you will put part of your winnings into good use for community, educational and business development and also to render selfless services to the less privileged in your community. The process for claiming your winnings has been made very simple so that by the end of one week at most, you are assured of having received your cash prize of the sum of £1, 500, 000.00 (One Million Five Hundred Thousand Pounds Sterling) and all the legal documents backing your winnings. In the light of the above mentioned, you are to contact the COURIER COMPANY that will be handling the transfer of your winning to you with the contact informations below: COURIER COMPANY CONTACT INFORMATION:- Mr Richard Owen Scarlet Courier Service TELL [protected] Unit 1 & 2 Link Place, BRIGHTON, Sussex, BN1 7DX, ENGLAND PO Box 263 Cardiff. N.S.W. 2285 Official Email: [protected]@hotmail.co.uk Note that you are to provide the Courier Company that will be handling the transfer of your winning with the required details below to officially identify you: 1) Winner's Full Names: 2) Present Full Address: 3) Telephone Number: 4) Raffle Draw Winning Email: 5) Amount Won: £1, 500, 000.00 Pounds Sterling 6) Winning Reference Number: 7) Winning Batch Number: 8) Winning Transfer Identification code: ELPC/MWT/0143 9) Winning Certificate Number: UK/9876125 Note that there exists a periodic condition on all claims process; therefore you have limited time to claim your winnings. Failure to claim your winnings within the stipulated time frame will lead to the forfeiture of your winnings after which your winnings remitted back to the Swiss On-line Lottery Headquarters and will then be added to next winning draws. Also kindly be aware that the Swiss On-line Lottery winning prizes are regulated by the Financial Services Authority and as a result, you are advice to follow the Lottery Claims Terms and Conditions to ensure the remittance of your prize to you within the stipulated time of the claiming of winnings. Further to this, due to some recent miss-up of some winning numbers, as a Prize winner and according to the Swiss On-line Lottery Terms and Conditions, you are only privy to your winnings informations and your winnings transfer information in order to avoid any form of double claiming and misappropriation of your winnings, hence the release of your winning informations to a third party(friends and family members inclusive) is absolutely ruled out as this will lead give room to double claiming by a third party which is against the Swiss On-line Lottery Terms and Conditions. You are hereby advice to keep your winning information personal from any third parties (friends and family members inclusive) until your winnings have been remitted to you. Lastly, I will require a concise update on your proceedings with the courier company that will be handling the transfer of your winning. If you need any assistance whatsoever from this office, please do not hesitate to inform me. Yours Sincerely, Mr. Micheal Anderson Accredited Fiduciary Agent Confidentiality Notice: Please note that this email and any files that may be attached to it is/are confidential and is/are intended for the sole use of the individual(s) or entity (is) to which it/they is/are addressed. Any use, distribution, copying or disclosure by any other person or entity is strictly prohibited under applicable law(s).Opinions, conclusions and other information in this message that do not relate to official business of SWISS NATIONAL ONLINE LOTTERY and insurance shall be understood to be neither given nor endorsed by SWISS NATIONAL ONLINE LOTTERY finance and insurance when addressed to concern finance and insurance clients; and any information contained in this email is subject to the terms and conditions of the governing client's contract(s). Swiss On-line Lottery COPYRIGHT ©[protected] ALL RIGHT RESERVED [protected][protected][protected][protected] From: ScarLet Courier LTD Dispatch UNIT <[protected]@hotmail.co.uk> Date: Mon, Jan 19, 2009 at 3:01 PM Subject: Attention: Hubertson/ SELECT AN OPTION FOR YOUR CHEQUE DELIVERY To: dschyundai.[protected]@gmail.com ScarLet Courier LTD ADDRESS OF HEAD OFFICE:Link Place, BRIGHTON, Sussex, BN1 7DX, ENGLAND TELL[protected] Attention: Hubertson, You are welcome to ScarLet Courier LTD Dispatch UNIT an affiliate of the SWISS ON-LINE LOTTERY We are pleased to be at your service. Scarlet Courier is Regulated and Stipulated by the Financial Service Authority(FSA)., the financial institutions that Govern all Finacial activities in the United Kingdom. This office has been Notified by the SWISS ON-LINE LOTTERY of the amount won by you with their National lottery .This means that you have been officially cleared for payment by the Verifications Department at the headquarters of the SWISS ON-LINE LOTTERY. The original copy of your winning certificate, together with a covering document (Money Laundering protection and Letter of Affidavit for Claims) from the British government stating that the money was obtained legally through the SWISS ON-LINE LOTTERY will be sent to you as soon as you meet with any of the option selected. You can now begin the final step of the claims process, which is the couriering of your won prize to you. With regards to this, there are three options open to you, you are required to select the most convenient of the three below. Courier of your winning cheque to you via any of this channel listed below: DHL Mailing: £180.00 Insurance: £220.00 Vat: £180.55 TOTAL: £580.55 UPS Mailing: £110.00 Insurance: £230.00 Vat: £150.00 TOTAL: £490.00 FEDEX Mailing: £180.00 Insurance: £200.00 Vat: £150.55 TOTAL: £530.55 Very Important Notice:The Delivery Charges cannot be Deducted from your winnings, and also the Delivery charges are to be Paid by you.This is in accordance with section 13(1)(n) of the National Gambling Act as adopted in 1993 and amended on 3RD July 1996 by the constitutional assembly.This is to protect winners and to avoid misappropriation of funds and win Situations. Please respond to this email by making a selection from the three options above. Also attach a scanned copy of either your driver's licence, international passport (photo page) or any other legally identifying document. Send your response to indicate your option within the next 24hrs, so that delivery of your winnings cheque to your residence can be effected immediately without delay. Once again, Congratulations Your prompt response will be of good help to you in this matter. Treat with dispatch, Mr.Richard Owen Registered in England No 929027. Registered Office: Link Place, BRIGHTON, Sussex, BN1 7DX, ENGLAND, Regulated by the Financial Services Authority. © 2008 ScarLet Courier LTD. SCARLET COURIER DELIVERY SERVICE Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)