At the outset, i want to know why there is no customer care numbers provided in the rediff web site. for rediff shopping. Do they have customer care support. If they do have its worst and is a waste. There is a complaint form or so called as a feedback form given by them in their so called customer care support in the website, which has to be filled online, where they have also said that a reply or someone from rediff will contact and resolve the complaint. untill now i have sent 2 mails to rediff shopping and rediff, there is no response from them and not even an acknowledgement. the most important and facinating thing is that i spoke to the person in rediff shopping who was responsible for my ordered goods at rediff shopping, acknowledged that the customer care service is very poor and its a waste to wait for a response from rediff coz they wont come. i have the mobile number and the email id of that person. anyone intrested can contact me. Further, my complaint recited "upon seeing your pictures given by you in your website, i had ordered for 2 front and rear car sunshades. the rear sunshade in your website seems to be showing the picture of the sunshade for the windows of the car while the back one seems to be showing for the rear glass. i received the objects today an found that there was nothing for my windows...that is the both the front sunshade seems to be fitting for the winshield at the front of the car and the back glass while the rear sunshades are too big for my cars...there was a misunderstanding bcoz of the pictures displayed in your website. in that regard, i would request you to kindly take my 2 REAR CAR SUN SHADE FOR BIG CARS and give me for the 4 windows. my car type is tata indigo marina" i am still waiting for a response from rediff after sending numerous reminders and letters to rediff feedback and their customer care. also, in rediffshopping customer care page, they have said to make a feedback/complaint within few days ...i think its less than 5 days (not sure) and after that no complaints will be entertained. what if a person like me complain and get no respponse within their given stipulated time.