Respected Sir/Madam, I would like to file an official complaint regarding an online dropshipping fraud and harassment incident. I made a payment to an organisation RSL Retail Private Limited(so called SEEKHOBECHO) Re claiming to offer a service of drop shipping. After receiving payment, they denied the service asking to fill an agreement was never discussed, intension to take more money rather sharing platform credential post initial setup, that I had refused to sign one sided contract that too was not disclosed before. When I requested a refund they assured will be processed after 45 days as per company policy, on completion the timeline when started following up for refund, they stopped responding and later blocked me on Instagram, which clearly indicates fraudulent intent. Further, when I contacted another representative (Mrs. Aashi Chaudhari @[protected]) for an update, she used abusive language, threatened to file a false case against me alleging harassment “because she is a female, ” and refused to provide any resolution. This behaviour indicates fraud, cheating, and intimidation. Despite repeated follow-ups, the person (Mr. Richi [protected]@[protected]- founder of the company) and the organisation have refused to return my money and are attempting to evade responsibility. Details of the Fraud: Platform Used: Online Dropshipping Instagram Page Name: (write the page name or URL; attach screenshot) Names of individuals involved: Mr. Richi & Mrs. Aashi Chaudhari Amount Paid: ₹9500 Date of Payment: 4th and 6th Oct25 Mode of Payment: UPI / Google Pay (attach proof) Phone Number(s) Used: [protected] Incident Description: They took money twice for a service that was denied on the first day after presenting a one-sided contract that was never disclosed earlier. They then asking for more money at the time of agreement signing. When I requested a refund, I was abused, threatened and then blocked. Evidence can be provided: Payment receipt / UPI transaction screenshot Chat screenshots Call logs Screenshot showing “Profile isn’t available” after being blocked Their contact numbers & username Request: I request the Cyber Crime Cell to: Initiate an investigation into the fraud Identify the individuals behind the Chain File charges under IPC & IT Act for cheating, fraud & harassment Help in recovering my money Prevent them from scamming other people online I assure full cooperation and am willing to provide any further information needed. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)