Dear Ekart Logistics Team, I am writing to report an unauthorized order that was delivered to my address on 24th Feb, 2026, without my knowledge or consent. It was a Cash on Delivery Order with Order Details: Order Id: NP_53961 Merchant Name: Shiprocket AWB Number: SRSC[protected] Tracking Number: SRSC[protected] Delivery Date: 24th February, 2024 Delivery Address: A 502, Radhekrishna Tower, poona -Link Road, Katemanivali, Kalyan East, Behind Abhyuday Bank Courier Service: Ekart Logistics What Happened: I never placed this order. This appears to be a case of identity theft or fraud, where my personal information was used to place this order without my authorization. Expected Product: (Based on what you might have in your system) Actual Product Received: Knee Pain Patch (Medical product) Evidence Attached: 1. Photo of the delivered package showing the knee pain patch 2. UPI payment screenshot showing the transaction (if any) 3. Tracking history from AWB number SRSC[protected] My Request: Immediate refund of CoD Rs 699 made for this unauthorized order Investigation into how this fraudulent order was placed using my details Removal of my personal information from any merchant databases Prevention of similar unauthorized orders in the future. The delivered item was returned to Ekart Office Kalyan East with the following Address - BUILDING-10, Anmol Garden Building, Kalyan East, Chinchpada Gaon, Kalyan, Maharashtra 421306. Contact Person - Vikrant Contact Number - [protected] Additional Information: I will be filing a complaint with the cybercrime authorities I have contacted my bank to report potential fraud. I request that you block my address from any future unauthorized orders. Please treat this matter with urgency as it involves potential identity theft and financial fraud. I look forward to your prompt response and action on this serious issue. Thank you for your immediate attention to this matter. Sincerely, Dinesh Prasad [protected] [protected]@gmail.com Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (0)