CHANDRA DHARI SINGH, J. 1. The instant civil revision petition under Section 115 of the Code of
 Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter " CPC "), has been filed on behalf of the
 petitioner seeking the following reliefs:- Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 c) grant ad-interim ex-parte stay on the proceedings in CS No.
 57416 of 2016 before the Patiala House Courts during the
 pendency of the instant revision petition; d) pass such other or further orders as this Hon'ble Court may
 deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case."
 FACTUAL MATRIX 2. The petitioner is a banking company registered under the Companies
 Act, 1956 and is a Scheduled Bank under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 .
 The present petition is being instituted by Mr. Priyank Kapoor, who is the
 authorised representative of the petitioner. The respondent is Union of India,
 through the Department of Telecommunications (hereinafter "DoT"). 3. The DoT had granted the Radio Paging service licenses to M/s
 Punwire Mobile Communications Limited (hereinafter "PMCL") and M/s
 Punwire Paging Services Limited (hereinafter "PPSL") in the year 1995-96,
 and both the companies are sister concerns. 4. The DoT had issued 13 radio-paging licenses to these companies to
 operate radio-paging service in one city and twelve circles. These licenses
 were terminated on 21st September, 2001 and 10th October, 2001 due to the
 liquidation of both these companies on 21st September, 2001 and 5th July,
 2001 respectively. 5. The petitioner, i.e., the plaintiff before the learned Trial Court had
 provided the respondent Union of India, i.e., the defendant before the
 learned Trial Court, six BGs on behalf PPSL and twelve BGs in favour of
 PMCL thereby a total of eighteen BGs were given by the petitioner. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 6. Both of these companies had made payment of the license fees for the
 initial eight quarters, but subsequently, no payment was received from these
 companies and the DoT invoked all the BGs (hereinafter "BGs") amounting
 to Rs. 34,68,72,730/- in the year of 2000, and letters invoking BGs were sent
 to the Bank of Punjab, Chandigarh (i.e., the predecessor of the petitioner -
 HDFC Bank Limited) before expiry of the period of BGs. However, the
 petitioner bank did not encash the BGs and denied the receipt of invocation
 letters. 7. Since, the Bank of Punjab, Chandigarh (i.e., the predecessor of the
 petitioner - HDFC Bank Limited) did not send the proceeds of the BGs, the
 DoT lodged a complaint with the Banking Ombudsman on 24th May, 2001;
 18th June, 2001, and 6th July, 2001; in respect of both these companies. 8. The Banking Ombudsman passed an award on 17th October, 2003 in
 favor of the DoT and directed the petitioner bank to pay the proceeds of the
 BGs with the compensation of Rs. 10 lakhs. 9. The Bank of Punjab, Chandigarh (i.e., the predecessor of the
 petitioner - HDFC Bank Limited), thereafter, filed a Civil Suit bearing
 CS(OS) 322/2004, before this Court, thereby, challenging the above said
 Award passed by the Banking Ombudsman, and claimed that the BGs stood
 discharged and extinguished by variation of contract, and also in absence of
 a valid claim of demand during the validity thereof. 10. In the said Civil Suit, the DoT and the Banking Ombudsman were
 impleaded as defendants. The said suit being valued at Rs. 50,01,000/-, was
 transferred to the District Court, Patiala House, New Delhi, on 16th Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 3 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 December, 2015 due to the revision of pecuniary jurisdiction of Delhi
 Courts, and the same is now registered as CS no. 57416/2016. 11. On 28thSeptember, 2010 the respondent submitted its list of witnesses,
 thereby, making Ms. Kalpana Singh as DW-1. DW-1 was on deputation to
 the DoT and Mr. T.S Krishnamurthy was named as DW-2. 12. Vide order dated 14th December 2010, the respondent was directed by
 to file its evidence by way of affidavit within 4 weeks, and the matter was
 listed for the respondent‟s evidence. Admittedly, the respondent did not file
 its evidence, and in the in the interest of justice it was granted one more
 opportunity, where after the matter was listed on 14th July, 2011. 13. The respondent did not file its evidence yet again, and vide order
 dated 14th July, 2011, it was granted last opportunity to the respondent to
 conclude its evidence on the next date of hearing, i.e., 24 th October, 2011.
 Even after multiple opportunities vide order dated 14th July, 2011; 24th
 October, 2011; and 28th February, 2012; the respondent failed to comply
 with the above said directions. On 28th February, 2012; the respondent was
 again granted final opportunity to file its evidence subject to costs of
 Rs. 20,000/-, and the matter was listed for 27th August, 2012 for further
 proceedings. 14. Thereafter, the respondent filed affidavit of evidence of DW-1 on 8th
 August, 2012 and DW-1 was partly examined in chief on 27th August, 2012.
 It is stated by the petitioner that DW-2 was present the entire time during the
 examination of DW-1. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 15. On 5th February, 2013 the respondent inter alia filed an application
 bearing IA no. 1993/2013 before the learned Trial Court, to replace the
 affidavit of DW-1 that had already been tendered with another affidavit,
 which according to the petitioner contained completely new case other than
 what was set out in the earlier affidavit. 16. In view of the substantial changes in the affidavit, the petitioner
 objected to the replacement of the affidavit. On 6th February, 2013 after
 hearing both parties, the application was dismissed as withdrawn with the
 liberty to the respondent to file a supplementary affidavit which was only
 clarificatory in nature and giving exhibit numbers in a proper manner. The
 matter was listed for 12th July, 2013. 17. Thereafter, adjournments were sought by the respondent on 12th July,
 2013 and 22nd November, 2013, and the respondent was granted last and
 final opportunity to the respondent to conclude the evidence on 15th April,
 2014. 18. On 15th April, 2014 DW-1 was further examined in chief and partly
 cross examined on 21st May, 2015; 23rd July, 2015‟ 8th November 2016.
 Thereafter, adjournments were sought by the respondent on 18 th January,
 2017 and 21st February, 2017; subject to cost of Rs. 5,000/-. 19. On 22nd May, 2017, DW-1, whose cross examination was pending,
 was absent. The respondent filed an affidavit of evidence of DW-2, for the
 first time, to which the petitioner objected. The petitioner had objected to the
 same on the ground that DW-1 was a witness of fact appearing as a Power of
 Attorney holder of the respondent and was under cross examination. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 Therefore, DW-2‟s affidavit on the same fact, at this stage, could not be
 taken on record, that too, after more than six years of directions passed by
 the learned Trial Court to file evidence by way of affidavit. 20. The petitioner further pleaded that multiple opportunities had been
 given to the respondent from 14th December, 2010 to complete its evidence
 but it failed to do so. Moreover, severe prejudice would be caused to the
 petitioner, if the affidavit of DW-2 is permitted to be filed on the same set of
 facts. 21. The learned Trial Court, vide order dated 22nd May, 2017 (first
 impugned order), dismissed the afore-stated objections raised by the
 petitioner and imposed a cost of Rs. 800/- for raising such objections. 22. Thereafter, DW-2 was brought forward to tender his affidavit. It is
 stated by the petitioner that, at this moment, it realized that DW-2 was the
 same person who had been assisting DW-1 throughout her cross
 examination. The respondent had not informed either the Court or the
 petitioner that DW-2 was a proposed witness for the respondent. The
 petitioner further states that though DW-2‟s name appeared in the list of
 witnesses but the petitioner did not, till then, know that the person assisting
 DW-1 was the same person whose name had been mentioned in the list of
 witnesses. 23. Accordingly, the petitioner raised an objection on this ground before
 the learned Court below and the learned ADJ stated that this objection would
 be decided at the next date, i.e. 21stAugust, 2017 (later adjourned to
 26thAugust, 2017). On 26th August, 2017, the learned Court below passed the Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 6 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 second impugned order, thereby, rejecting the objections raised by the
 petitioner as mentioned herein above. 24. Aggrieved by the impugned orders dated 22nd May, 2017 and 26th
 August, 2017 the petitioner has filed the instant civil revision petition
 challenging the same. 25. The petitioner has raised the grounds of challenge in paragraphs „A to
 V‟ of the petition. The rejoinder dated 26th April, 2019, filed by the
 petitioner denying the averments made by the respondent in its reply is on
 record. The written submissions dated 29th September, 2023 filed by the
 petitioner is also on record. 26. The respondent has filed its reply dated 15th November, 2017 is on
 record, wherein, the contentions and objections against the impugned orders
 is denied in paragraphs „A to H‟ and „1 to 18‟. The written submissions
 dated 3rd October, 2023 filed by the respondent is also on record. SUBMISSIONS
 (On behalf of the petitioner) 27. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner
 submitted that the learned Trial Court erred in passing the impugned orders
 since it failed to take into consideration the entirety of the facts and
 circumstances of the instant dispute. 28. It is submitted that despite multiple opportunities, the respondent had
 first, failed to file the evidence affidavit of its witnesses and thereafter, failed
 to ensure the presence of DW-1 for the purpose of cross examination. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 Despite its deliberate dilatory tactics and unlawful conduct, more than
 sufficient indulgence was granted by the learned Trial Court to it and
 multiple „last opportunities‟ were given to lead evidence. 29. It is submitted that when the matter was listed on 26 th August, 2017
 the petitioner had pleaded before the learned Court below that there was a
 delay of more than 6 years in filing the evidence affidavit of DW-2, i.e.,
 from December, 2010 to May, 2017. Ample opportunities had been given to
 the respondent since 14th December, 2010 to file its evidence by way of
 affidavit but only the affidavit of DW-1 had been filed. 30. It is submitted that at no stage during the multiple hearings held
 between the year 2010 till 2017, the respondent did not ever inform either
 its intention to lead evidence through DW-2 or the fact that DW-2, was
 present during each hearing when the cross examination of DW-1 was
 conducted. 31. It is submitted that DW-1 was a witness of fact, appearing as a power
 of attorney holder of the respondent and was under the process of cross
 examination. Therefore, DW-2‟s affidavit on the same fact could not now be
 taken on record, that too, after the laps of 6 years. 32. It is submitted that severe prejudice would be caused to the petitioner
 if the affidavit of DW-2 on the same facts of deposition of DW-1 was
 permitted to be filed. 33. It is submitted that the learned Court below failed to appreciate that
 since, the respondent is Union of India, it would not mean that it would be Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 8 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 permitted to take undue advantage and fill up the lacunae in its evidence by
 filing a subsequent affidavit at a belated stage. 34. It is submitted that the whilst passing the impugned orders, the learned
 Court below erred by not taking into consideration that all the witnesses of
 fact, deposing by way of an affidavit to prove the same of facts must file
 their affidavits together, otherwise the other party would be severely
 prejudiced. 35. It is submitted that DW-1 was still under cross examination and the
 respondent had neither concluded her examination nor was it producing her
 to complete the cross examination. 36. It is further submitted that not only DW-2 was present throughout the
 cross examination of DW-1, but he also assisted DW-1 throughout her cross
 examination and the evidence of DW-2 was on the identical issue/point as
 the evidence being led by DW-1. 37. It is submitted that having had the benefit of attending the cross
 examination of DW-1 and being aware of the line of questioning being put
 forth by the petitioner‟s counsel, the respondent had, in the affidavit of DW-
 2, malafidely attempted to cover up all the lacunae and loop holes in its case
 that had been exposed during the cross examination of DW-1. 38. It is submitted that the learned Court below failed to appreciate the
 law that witnesses should be called in one by one and that no witness who is
 to give evidence should be present when the deposition of a previous witness
 is in process. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 39. It is submitted that by virtue of Section 15(3) of the Commercial
 Courts Act, 2015, (hereinafter "the Act") amended provisions of the Order
 XVIII Rule 4(1)(A) of the CPC , will squarely apply to the present
 proceedings. Further, amended provision under Order XVIII Rule 4(1)(B) of
 the CPC , prohibits a party from leading additional evidence by way of
 affidavit on any further witness. Therefore, introduction of DW-2‟s evidence
 affidavit at a subsequent stage after a lapse of 6 years is impermissible. 40. It is submitted that Section 135 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872,
 (hereinafter " Evidence Act ") postulates for order in which witnesses are
 produced shall be regulated by the law and practice for the time being. At
 the time of impugned orders, amended Order XVIII Rule 4(1)(A) and (B) of
 the CPC were applicable and thus, attracted to the present proceedings. As
 submitted above, in exercise of powers under Section 135 of the Evidence
 Act, the learned Trial Court vide orders dated 14th December, 2010; 17th
 March, 2011; 14th July, 2011; 24th October, 2011; 28th October, 2012, and
 28th February, 2012, gave repeated opportunities to the respondent to file the
 affidavits of its witnesses. 41. It is submitted that the reasoning given in the impugned orders is
 perverse, arbitrary, irrational, and has no basis whatsoever in law, equity or
 justice. 42. It is submitted that in view of the foregoing submissions, the instant
 petition may be allowed and the reliefs as prayed for may be granted. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 (On behalf of the respondent) 43. Per Contra the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent
 vehemently opposed the instant petition and submitted that the same is liable
 to be dismissed being devoid of any merits. 44. It is submitted that the petitioner‟s contentions are baseless due to the
 reason that the learned Court below has exercised its jurisdiction in
 accordance to the settled legal propositions with regard to the provisions
 governing recording of evidence in the CPC and there is no infirmity in the
 impugned orders passed by it. 45. It is submitted that the learned Trial Court has taken into
 consideration the entire facts and circumstances and only after such due
 consideration, it reached to the conclusion, whereby, it dismissed the
 petitioner‟s objections. 46. It is submitted that the present revision petition is liable to be
 dismissed on the grounds that the petitioner has failed to bring up any
 substantial question of law or any wrong exercise of the provisions of law by
 the learned Court below. 47. It is further submitted that the present revision petitioner is even other
 non-maintainable as the learned Trial Court has not decided the suit in
 question and it is a well settled law that this Court cannot exercise its
 revisional jurisdiction to interfere with an order passed at the interlocutory
 stage. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 48. It is submitted that the Commercial Court Act, 2015 came into force
 w.e.f. 23rd October, 2015. However, before the said date, the evidence of the
 petitioner was already concluded and the evidence of the respondent had
 started and was going on as the DW-l was under cross-examination. 49. It is submitted that on 18th January, 2017, an application was filed on
 behalf of the respondent stating that DW-l, cannot appear as she was on
 leave and DW-2 had gone to Tamil Nadu to attend family function. No
 objection to the production of DW-2 was taken by the petitioner during the
 course of hearing held on 18th January, 2017 before the Trial Court.
 Considering the facts of the case, the application filed by the respondent was
 allowed and the presence of DW-l and DW-2 was exempted by the learned
 Trial Court. Therefore, it is evident that the respondent had made it clear
 even on 18th January, 2017 that the DW-2 was to be produced and no
 objection to the same was taken by the petitioner. 50. It is submitted that on 22nd May 2017, DW-2 filed his evidence by
 way of affidavit. The objection to the filing of the affidavit was taken by the
 petitioner on the ground that the witness was appearing to assist DW-l on
 every date. The learned Court below vide order dated 22nd May, 2017
 disallowed the objections of the petitioner and permitted the respondent to
 file the affidavit of DW-2 and lead the evidence. 51. It is submitted that case was last heard, by the learned Trial Court
 on26th August, 2017 when further objections were taken by the petitioner to
 the filing of the evidence by way of affidavit by DW-2, which were also
 rejected by the learned Trial Court. It was stated on behalf of Union of India Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 12 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 that DW-2 never assisted DW-l and that he was already retired in the year
 2011. The learned Trial Court observed that whosoever officer appeared on
 behalf of Union of India has no personal interest in the case as it is the
 Union of India, i.e., all the citizens of India having interest and accordingly,
 all the contentions raised on behalf of the petitioner were rejected 52. It is submitted that in the present case, when the evidence on behalf of
 the respondent had been started, the unamended provisions of Order XVIII
 Rule 4 of the CPC , were applicable and therefore, no objection on the basis
 of amended provisions of Order XVIII Rule 4 of the CPC , was taken by the
 petitioner at the time of hearing on 22nd May, 2017 and 24th August 2017.
 The only objections taken by the petitioner were based on the Order XVII
 Rule 3 and Order XVIII Rule 3A of the CPC , which were rightly rejected by
 the learned Trial Court. The respondent refers to and relies upon the orders
 dated 22nd May, 2017 and 24th August, in this regard. 53. It is submitted that as rightly observed by the learned Court below,
 Order XVIII Rule 3A was not applicable in the present case as neither DW-l
 nor DW-2 was a party in the case and Union of India, which is not a real
 person has to act through its officers. 54. It is submitted that the learned ADJ has also rightly observed that
 evidence of the respondent had not been closed and the respondent could
 call its witnesses till the evidence was closed. 55. It is further submitted that reliance upon amended provisions of Order
 XVIII Rule 4(1A) for simultaneous filing of affidavits of all the witnesses of
 a party was not in existence at the time of filing of affidavit of DW-1. Even Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 13 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 after coming into force of the Act, 2015, there was no direction by the
 learned Court below for filing of the affidavits of all the witnesses of the
 respondent. Therefore, the provisions of Order XVIII Rule 4(1A) and 4(1B)
 have no bearing in the present case. 56. It is submitted that mere accompanying DW-1 to Court below along
 with a batch of officers carrying more than 10 files weighing around 100
 Kilograms does not mean that DW-2 was assisting DW-1 during her cross-
 examination. 57. In view of the submissions made above, it is submitted that the instant
 petition is devoid of any merit and the same be dismissed. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 58. The matter was heard at length with arguments advanced by the
 learned counsels on both sides. This Court has also perused the entire
 material on record. This Court has duly considered the factual scenario of
 the matter, judicial pronouncements relied on by the parties and pleadings
 presented by the learned counsel of the parties. 59. Before embarking upon the technical paraphernalia of the instant case,
 it is imperative to set out the scope of Section 115 of the CPC, under which
 the petitioner has challenged the impugned orders before this Court. The
 said Section has been reproduced for reference hereunder: 60. Section 115 of the CPC invests all High Courts with revisional
 jurisdiction. It declares that the High Court may call for the record of any
 case which has been decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 15 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 wherein no appeal lies, to satisfy itself on three aspects; (i) that the order
 passed by the subordinate Court is within its jurisdiction; (ii) that the case is
 one in which the Court has power to exercise its jurisdiction; and (iii) that in
 exercising jurisdiction the Court has not acted illegally, that is, breach of
 some provision of law, or with material irregularity, that is by committing
 some error of procedure in the course of trial which is material in that it may
 have affected the ultimate decision. 61. The provision thus takes within its limited jurisdiction, the irregular
 exercise or non-exercise of it, or the illegal assumption of it. It is not
 directed against conclusions of law or fact in which the question of
 jurisdiction is not involved. In other words, it is only in cases where the
 subordinate Court has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or has
 failed to exercise jurisdiction so vested, or has acted in the exercise of its
 jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity that the jurisdiction of the
 High Court may be properly invoked. 62. In the landmark case of Major S.S. Khanna v. Brig . F.J. Dillon,
 (1964) 4 SCR 409, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court stated that the said Section
 consists of two parts, first prescribes the condition in which jurisdiction of
 the High Court arises, i.e., there is a case decided by the subordinate Court
 in which no appeal lies to the Court of higher jurisdiction, second sets out
 the circumstances in which the jurisdiction may be exercised by the High
 Court. If there is no question of jurisdiction, the concerned decision cannot
 be corrected by the High Court in the exercise of revisional powers. The Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 16 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 relevant paragraphs of Major S.S. Khanna (Supra) have been reproduced
 herein: The validity of the argument turns upon the true meaning
 of Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which
 provides: The section consists of two parts, the first prescribes the
 conditions in which jurisdiction of the High Court arises i.e.
 there is a case decided by a subordinate Court in which no
 appeal lies to the High Court, the second sets out the
 circumstances in which the jurisdiction maybe exercised. But Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 17 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 the power of the High Court is exercisable in respect of "any
 case which has been decided". The expression "case" is not
 defined in, the Code, nor in the General Clauses Act . It is
 undoubtedly not restricted to a litigation in the nature of a suit
 in a civil court : Balakrishna Udayar v. Vasudeva Aiyar [LR 44
 IA 261] ; it includes a proceeding in a civil court in which the
 jurisdiction of the Court is invoked for the determination of
 some claim or right legally enforceable. On the question
 whether an order of a Court which does not finally dispose of
 the suit or proceeding amounts to a "case which has been
 decided", there has arisen a serious conflict of opinion in the
 High Courts in India and the question has not been directly
 considered by this Court. One view which is accepted by a
 majority of the High Courts is that the expression "case"
 includes an interlocutory proceeding relating to the rights and
 obligations of the parties, and the expression record of any case
 includes so much of the proceeding as relates to the order
 disposing of the interlocutory proceeding. The High Court has
 therefore power to rectify an order of a Subordinate Court at
 any stage of a suit or proceeding even if there be another
 remedy open to the party aggrieved i.e. by reserving his right to
 file an appeal against the ultimate decision, and making the
 illegality in the order a ground of that appeal. The other view is
 that the expression "case" does not include an issue or a part
 of a suit or proceeding and therefore the order on an issue or a
 part of a suit or proceeding is not a "case which has been
 decided", and the High Court has no power in exercise of its
 revisional jurisdiction to correct an error in an interlocutory
 order." 63. The term „jurisdiction‟ has not been defined in the CPC . The
 definition of the same has been defined by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court and
 various High Courts by way of judgments. The said term means „the power
 of a Court to hear and decide a case or to pass a certain order‟ and „the right Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 18 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 or authority to apply laws and administer justice‟. The expression
 „jurisdiction‟ is a verbal cast of many colors the adoptive definition of the
 same has to be interpreted subjectively, i.e., depending upon the nature of
 the facts and circumstances of each case. 64. It is a settled principle of law that the lower Courts have jurisdiction
 to decide the case, and in context of the provision of revision, even if the
 Court below decides the case wrongly, they do not exercise their jurisdiction
 illegally or with material irregularity. Section 115 of the CPC, deals with the
 High Court‟s power of revision. Briefly stated, in a case which is not subject
 to appeal, the High Court is empowered to call for the records of the case
 decided by the Court below, and if the Court below has exercised a
 jurisdiction vested in it by law, or failed to exercise jurisdiction vested by
 law or acted with material irregularity, etc. in the exercise of its jurisdiction,
 the High Court may interfere. 65. The CPC , however, enables the High Court to correct, when
 necessary, the errors of jurisdiction committed by subordinate Courts and
 provides the means to an aggrieved party to obtain rectification in a non-
 appealable order. In other words, for the effective exercise of its
 superintending powers, revisional jurisdiction is conferred upon the High
 Court. The said principle has been reaffirmed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court
 in the judgment of Manick Chandra Nandy v. Debdas Nandy , (1986) 1
 SCC 512. The Hon‟ble Court in the said judgment had observed as follows: 66. The scope and extent of the revisional powers of this Court has been
 discussed in depth in the foregoing paragraphs. Now, adverting to the facts
 of the instant case. 67. Briefly stated, it has been submitted by the learned senior counsel
 appearing on behalf of the petitioner that the learned Trial Court has
 exercised its jurisdiction illegally and with material irregularity while
 impugned orders dated 22nd May, 2017 and 26th August, 2017, in as much
 has the learned ADJ has permitted DW-2, who was present throughout the
 cross examination of DW-1, to appear as DW-2, and to depose on the same
 factual issue that was being deposed by DW-1. 68. It is the case of the petitioner that the respondent had introduced its
 list of witness on 28th September, 2010. After multiple opportunities, the
 respondent filed evidence by way of affidavit of DW-1. However, the
 respondent chose not to file evidence by way of affidavit of DW-2.
 Pertinently, DW-2 was present and assisted DW-1 all along the cross
 examination of DW-1, without even disclosing that he is also a witness in
 the trial. It has been contended that in the proceedings conducted on 22nd
 May, 2017, the petitioner raised objections to the introduction of evidence
 affidavit of DW-2 at a belated stage i.e., after six years. However, such
 objection was not entertained by the learned Trial Court. Further, when the Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 21 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 DW-2 was produced for cross examination, the petitioner realized that he
 has been assisting DW-1, during her cross examination. Thus, in the
 proceedings dated 26thAugust, 2017 a specific objection was raised by the
 petitioner, as introduction of the DW-2 would severely prejudice its right
 and is in derogation of well settled principles of law. However, the
 respondent made an incorrect statement that DW-2 had never assisted DW- 69. The petitioner has argued that DW-2 has been introduced with an
 objective to cover up the lacunae which were exposed during the cross
 examination of DW-1. DW-1 and DW-2 are both witness to prove the same
 set of facts and therefore must file their affidavit together. It is submitted
 that a mere perusal of the evidence affidavit of DW-2 would reveal that it
 has been drafted to pre-empt the questions raised by the petitioner, during
 cross examination of DW-1. Even as per the DW-2, he was acting on behalf
 of the respondent, i.e., Union of India. It is settled law that the Government
 acts through its officers. Therefore, in the present facts, for the actions which
 were conducted by the respondent through DW-2, he should have been
 produced before any other witness, as mandated by Order XVIII Rule 3-A of
 the CPC . The petitioner has alleged that the respondent did not disclose
 identity of DW-2, and attempted to play fraud before Court of law by such
 non- disclosure , in order to prejudice the rights of the petitioner. Therefore,
 the respondent cannot be allowed to introduce DW-2 as its witness at this
 stage Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 22 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 70. The petitioner submits that it is a well settled principle of law,
 followed by all Courts and tribunals throughout the country that, witnesses
 should be called in one by one, and no witness who is to give evidence
 should be present when the deposition of a previous witness is being taken.
 Learned senior counsel has placed his reliance upon the judgments passed in Anita Roy vs. Samir Majumdar,2019 SCC OnLine Del 7608; Asif Balwa
 vs. CBI,2012 SCC OnLine Del 903; Vidhyadhar v. Manikrao , (1999) 3
 SCC 573 and Maharashtra Small Scale Industries Development
 CorporationLtd. v. M. Surda Corporation,1983 SCC OnLine Bom 149. 71. In rival submissions, it has been submitted by the respondent that
 present revision petition is not maintainable as the learned Court below has
 not decided the suit in question. It is a well-established point of law that this
 Court by exercising its powers under section 115 of the CPC, will not
 interfere at the interlocutory stage. 72. It is submitted that the respondent had filed an application, wherein, it
 had argued before the learned Court below that DW-l, cannot appear as she
 was on leave and DW-2 had gone to Tamil Nadu to attend family function.
 At this stage, the petitioner did not object to the production of DW-2. Hence,
 taking into consideration the said fact, the learned Court below deemed it
 appropriate to allow the application of the respondent and accordingly, the
 presence of DW-l and DW-2 was exempted. Therefore, it is evident that the
 respondent had made it clear even on 18th January, 2017 that the DW-2 was
 to be produced and no objection to the same was taken by the petitioner. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 73. The respondent has strongly relied upon the observation made by the
 learned Court below in the impugned order dated 26 th August, 2017 that
 Order XVIII Rule 3A is not applicable in the present case as neither DW-l
 nor DW-2 was a party in the case and Union of India, which is not a real
 person has to act through its officers. Further, the provisions of Order XVIII
 Rule 4(1A) and 4(1B) have no bearing in the present case since there was no
 direction by the learned Court below for filing of the affidavits of all the
 witnesses of the respondent. The respondent has further argued that DW-2
 was accompanying DW-1 to carry the case files and the same cannot mean
 that DW-2 was assisting DW-1 in her examination. 74. It has been submitted on behalf of the respondent that merely because
 the learned Court below refused to exercise its discretion in passing the
 orders in favour of the petitioner, the question of illegal or irregular exercise
 of jurisdiction by the learned Trial Court cannot be raised. The same cannot
 be brought within the ambit of Section 115 of the CPC, as the petitioner has
 not been able to raise any ground which requires this Court to exercise its
 powers under its revisional jurisdiction, thereby correcting the alleged
 jurisdictional error in the orders under challenge. Learned counsel for the
 respondent has relied upon the judgment of this Court passed on 21st
 September, 2017 passed in CM (M) no. 1018/2017, in the case titled Subishi Impex Pvt. Ltd. V. Osram India Pvt. Ltd . 75. The relevant portion of the impugned orders dated 22nd May, 2017
 and 26th August, 2017, have been reproduced as under: Impugned order dated 26th August, 2017 - 76. Upon bare perusal of the impugned order dated 22nd May, 2017, it is
 observed that the learned Trial Court dismissed the objections contended by
 the petitioner that the respondent, i.e., the defendant therein, cannot be
 permitted to filed evidence by way of an affidavit of DW-2. The petitioner
 had objected that DW-2 had remained present through the entire
 examination of DW-1, hence he cannot be allowed to be deposed on the
 same facts since DW-2 will try to fill up the lacunae which arose during the Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 28 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 examination of DW-1. The learned Court below did not entertain the said
 objections and observed that no formal order had been passed by the Trial
 Court where the right to lead evidence of the respondent was closed beside
 DW-1 and the CPC also does not provide any such provision. Further, it is
 the discretion of the defendant to call its witnesses in any manner, till such
 opportunity is closed. It further held that the petitioner was well informed
 way before the examination of witnesses began since the name of DW-2 was
 mentioned in the list of witnesses filed. 77. Further, perusal of the impugned order dated 26th August, 2017,
 reveals that the petitioner had raised the objection that at this stage affidavit
 of DW-2 is filed who was appearing in the case regularly to assist DW-1 and
 therefore, now he is appearing as a witness when he was regularly present in
 the Court then the case of the petitioner will be prejudiced. He further
 referred to Order XVIII Rule 3A of the CPC and submitted before the
 learned Trial Court that if a party wishes to appear as a witness, then the said
 party has to appear prior to any other witness. While rejecting the
 contentions of the petitioner, the learned Trial Court observed that Union of
 India is not a real person and it has to be acted through its officers and such
 officers are tasked to assist in the proceedings. It further observed that the
 above said officers do not have any personal interest in the matter.
 Therefore, the learned Court below while passing the above said impugned
 order held that the provision under Order XVIII Rule 3A of the CPC , is not
 applicable in the suit. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 78. Since, the relevant facts necessary for the adjudication of the case
 have been reiterated hereinabove, therefore, at this stage, this Court deems it
 fit to analyze the issues involved herein. MAINTAINABILITY OF THE INSTANT PETITION 79. A preliminary objection has been raised by the respondent that the
 impugned orders under challenge before his Court are interlocutory orders
 passed at interlocutory stage and hence, the same cannot be challenged
 under the revisional jurisdiction of this Court due to the bar imposed under
 the law. The petitioner while rebutting the same has submitted that this
 Court has the power to convert the instant revision petition into a petition
 under Article 227 of the Constitution of India and the same is permissible
 under the law, reliance in this regard has been placed upon the judgment
 passed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the matter of Col. Anil Kak (Retd.)
 v. Municipal Corporation of Indore, (2005)12 SCC 734. 80. Since, the suit before the learned Trial Court is of commercial nature
 and is governed by the provisions of the Act, 2015, therefore, with respect to
 the above it is imperative to refer to the provision mentioned under Section 8 of the Act, 2015, which imposes a bar against a revision petition against an
 interlocutory order. The said provision is as under: 81. In this regard, this Court has referred to the judgment passed by the
 Division Bench of this Court in the matter of Black Diamond Trackparts
 Pvt. Ltd. v. Black Diamond Motors Pvt. Ltd. , 2021 SCC OnLine Del 3946,
 wherein, the bench held as under: 82. The power of judicial superintendence granted to this Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India must not be exercised to upset
 conclusions, howsoever erroneous they may be, unless there was something
 grossly wrong or unjust in the impugned order shocking the Court's
 conscience or the conclusions are so perverse that it becomes absolutely
 necessary in the interest of justice for the Court to interfere. The powers
 under Article 227 have to be used sparingly. In a catena of judgments passed
 by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court such as in Pipe Fitting Co. v. Fakhruddin
 M.A. Baker , (1977) 4 SCC 587 and in Mohd. Yunus v. Mohd.
 Mustaqim , (1983) 4 SCC 566, it has observed throughout that the above
 mentioned supervisory jurisdiction conferred to the High Court‟s under Article 227 of the Constitution of India is limited to overseeing that an Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 35 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 inferior court or tribunal functions within the limits of its authority and is not
 meant to correct an error, even if apparent on the face of the record. A mere
 wrong decision without anything more is not enough to attract this
 jurisdiction. 83. Considering the admitted situation under a Statue, the remedy of
 revision has been taken away by the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , and
 therefore, in order to preserve the legislative intent and give effect to the
 purpose behind the Commercial Courts Act , of expeditious disposal of
 commercial suits, this Court is not inclined to entertain the submissions of
 the petitioner of treating this revision petition as a writ petition under Article
 227 of the Constitution of India. 84. In light of the above provision, this Court is of the view no case is
 made out for invoking either the revisional jurisdiction under Section 115 of
 the CPC, or the supervisory jurisdiction of this Court under Article 227 of Constitution. In the event such a petition is entertained, it
 would be contrary to the intent of Section 8 of the Act, 2015. Therefore, the
 instant petition is liable to be dismissed on the grounds of maintainability.
 ON MERITS OF THE PETITION 85. The issues involved in the present civil revision petition are multifold.
 Firstly, this Court has to examine whether Order XVIII Rule 3A is
 applicable to the facts of the instant case while taking into consideration that
 the respondent is Union of India who appears in litigations through its
 officers. Secondly, whether the petitioner‟s objection in view of Order XVIII
 Rule 4(1A) of the CPC , that the respondent was supposed to file the Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 36 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 evidence of DW- and DW-2 simultaneously holds any merit. Thirdly,
 whether the learned Trial Court erred in allowing the respondent to lead
 evidence of DW-2 when the cross examination of DW-1 was pending. 86. The relevant provisions which have to be discussed for the
 adjudication of the issues involved 9in the instant case are Order XVIII Rule
 3A, Rule 4, Rule 4(1B) and Rule 4(1B) of the CPC , and the same have been
 reproduced as under: 87. Bare perusal of Rule 3A of Order XVIII states that the said provision
 directs the party, wishing to examine himself as a witness, to give evidence
 as a witness in the first instance before he examines other witnesses, it vests
 the Court with the power to permit a party to the suit to give evidence as a
 witness on his behalf at a subsequent stage, by recording reasons. Rule 4
 (1A) of Order XVIII of the CPC , has been referred to by the petitioner and
 the same stipulates that it is the mandate that the affidavit of evidence of all
 the witnesses whose evidence is proposed to be led by a party shall be filed
 simultaneously. 88. Before proceeding further, it is relevant to note that though the
 petitioner has also pleaded his case by referring to Order XVIII Rule 4(1B),
 but this Court is of the considered view that the petitioner has been unable to
 prove as to how the same is relevant since at no instance the learned Trial
 Court has allowed either DW-1 or DW-2 to file additional evidence.
 Furthermore, at one instance, when the respondent, i.e., the defendant before
 the learned Court below, attempted to file fresh evidence by way of an
 affidavit vide IA no. 1993/2013, to replace the affidavit of DW-1, that had Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 38 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 already been tendered with another affidavit, which according to the
 petitioner contained completely new case other than what was set out in the
 earlier affidavit. The learned Trial Court, in view of the substantial changes
 in the affidavit, and taking into consideration the objections raised by the
 petitioner qua the same, passed the order, whereby, the said application was
 dismissed as withdrawn with the liberty to the respondent to file a
 supplementary affidavit which was only clarificatory in nature and giving
 exhibit numbers in a proper manner. Hence, the petitioner‟s contentions with
 respect to the additional evidence are not sustainable, and accordingly
 rejected. 89. Further, the respondent, during the course of trial, had argued that
 when the evidence on behalf of the respondent had been started, the
 unamended provisions of Order XVIII Rule 4 of the CPC , were applicable
 and therefore, no objection on the basis of amended provisions of Order
 XVIII Rule 4 of the CPC can be taken by the petitioner. The said
 submissions made on behalf of the respondent does not hold force in the
 eyes of this Court in view of Section 15 (3) and 16 of the Act, 2015, as per
 which the amendment was made applicable to all the suits pending at the
 time of transfer to the Commercial Courts under the Act, 2015. As per the Schedule of the Act, 2015 , Rule 3A, 4 (1A) and 1(B) of Order XVIII of the
 CPC , were inserted by way of the amendment. The said provisions are
 extracted as under for reference: 90. The first and third issues are with respect to the similar objections and
 principles of law, hence both shall be discussed and analyzed together. The
 first issue is whether Order XVIII Rule 3A is applicable to the facts of the
 instant case while taking into consideration that the respondent is Union of
 India who appears in litigations through its officers. The third issue is
 whether the learned Trial Court erred in allowing the respondent to lead Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 40 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 evidence of DW-2 when the cross examination of DW-1 was pending. Both
 the issues shall be discussed and analyzed together. 91. In regard to the first issue, ordinarily, a party who wishes to be
 examined as a witness should offer himself first, before the other witnesses
 are examined. It is however, considered unnecessary to make any such
 statutory provision. This should be the ordinary rule; but a rigid provision on
 the subject does not seem to be desirable. Therefore, Rule 3A of Order
 XVIII was brought in by way of amendment under the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 . The same has also been observed by the High Court of Bombay
 in the matter of Vijaysingh Gordhandas v. Dwarkadas Mulji , 2001 SCC
 OnLine Bom 524. 92. The legislative object of bringing on Rule 3A is to ensure that a
 litigant should not be permitted to bide his time and to fill in the lacuna or
 cover the loopholes after the other witnesses are examined. 93. As noted above, the petitioner is alleging that the Union of India is a
 party to the suit before the learned Trial Court and it is appearing through
 DW-1 and DW-2, therefore, both the witnesses will be considered as a party
 and parties who wish to appear as witness their own case. Hence, it claims
 that since DW-2 was present throughout the examination of DW-1,
 therefore, allowing DW-2 to lead evidence after DW-1 is a clear violation of
 Order XVIII Rule 3A. The petitioner has submitted that at this stage
 affidavit of DW-2 is filed who was appearing in the case regularly to assist
 DW-1 and therefore, now he is appearing as a witness. When he was
 regularly present in the learned Court below then the case of the plaintiff Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 41 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 will be prejudiced. The learned senior counsel for the petitioner while
 referring to Order XVIII Rule 3A of the CPC , submitted that if a party
 wishes to appear as a witness then the said party has to appear prior to any
 other witness. 94. The learned Trial Court whilst dismissing the objections raised by the
 petitioner held and observed that in the case before it, neither DW-1, nor
 DW-2 is a party. It held that Union of India is a party, therefore, Order
 XVIII Rule 3A of the CPC , is itself not applicable to the peculiar facts of the
 instant case. It further observed that Union of India is a person who has to be
 acted through its own officers and definitely a counsel has to appear then the
 officers of Union of India have to assist. Since Union of India is not a real
 person who has to appear rather only the officers of the concerned
 department have to appear and assist the counsel. It is also held that the
 witnesses do not have any personal interest in the case and therefore, it
 rejected the arguments of the petitioner. 95. Before delving further into the discussion of the analysis of the
 present issue, it will be imperative for this Court to look into the
 observations made by the learned Trial Court with respect to the Union of
 India being a party and its appearance through its officials. 96. Union of India is a juristic person, meaning that it is a non-human
 legal entity recognized by the law and entitled to rights and duties in the
 same way as any other human/citizen of India. By conferring legal
 personality, legal systems have expanded the definition of a "legal person" 97. Legal personality is not human nature. Legal personality defines itself
 as recognition by the law of an object or corpus as an embodiment of certain
 rights and duties. Rights and duties which are ordinarily conferred on natural
 persons are in selected situations, conferred on inanimate objects or
 collectives, leading to the creation of an artificial legal person. An artificial
 legal person is a legal person to the extent the law recognizes the rights and
 duties ascribed to them, whether by statute or by judicial interpretation. It is
 only in this respect that persons possess juridical significance, and this is the
 exclusive point of view from which a personality receives legal recognition.
 The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the matter of M. Siddiq (Ram Janmabhumi
 Temple-5 J.) v. Suresh Das, (2020) 1 SCC 1, while defining the definition
 and scope of inclusion of a non -human entity as legal personality observed
 as under: ***

 Legal persons, being the arbitrary creations of the law,
 may be as of as many kinds as the law pleases. Those
 which are actually recognised by our own system,
 however, all fall within a single class, namely,
 corporations or bodies corporate. A corporation is a
 group or series of persons which by a legal fiction is
 regarded and treated as itself a person. If, however, we
 take account of other systems of our own, we find that the
 conception of legal personality is not so limited in its
 application." [ J.W. Salmond, Jurisprudence, Steven and
 Haynes (1913).] Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 45 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 (emphasis supplied)

 x x x 112. At a purely theoretical level, there is no restriction on
 what legal personality may be conferred. What is of
 significance is the purpose sought to be achieved by conferring
 legal personality. To the extent that this purpose is achieved,
 legal personality may even be conferred on an abstract idea.
 However, Salmond notes that legal personality is usually
 conferred on objects which are already the subject of
 personification or anthropomorphisms in layman's language
 out of "simplicity for thought and speech". The question
 whether legal personality is conferred on a ship, idol, or tree is
 a matter of what is legally expedient and the object chosen does
 not determine the character of the legal personality conferred.
 The character of the legal personality conferred is determined
 by the purpose sought to be achieved by conferring legal
 personality. There is thus a distinction between legal
 personality and the physical corpus which then comes to
 represent the legal personality. By the act of conferring legal
 personality, the corpus is animated in law as embodying a
 distinct legal person possessing certain rights and duties. x x x 115. The jurisprudential concept of treating a collective of
 entrepreneurs as a single unit for the purposes of legal
 recognition was already well established by the time the first
 business corporations came into existence and did not warrant
 examination by the courts...." 116. The independent legal personality of a corporation has
 never been dependent on recognition by courts. The legal Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 46 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 personality of the corporation was originally granted by a
 positive act of the Government..." x x x 125. There exists another reason to confer legal personality.
 Objects represent certain interests and confer certain benefits.
 In the case of some objects, the benefits will be material. The
 benefit may extend beyond that which is purely material. An
 artificial legal person, whether a ship or a company cannot in
 fact enjoy these benefits. The ultimate beneficiaries of such
 benefits are natural persons. However, requiring a court, in
 every case, to make the distinction between the artificial legal
 person and the natural persons deriving benefit from such
 artificial person is inordinately taxing, particularly when
 coupled with the increasing use of corporations and ships. This
 leads us to the third rationale for conferring legal personality
 convenience. The conferral of legal personality on objects has
 historically been a powerful tool of policy to ensure the
 practical adjudication of claims. By creating a legal
 framework, it equipped the court with the tools necessary to
 adjudicate upon an emerging class of disputes. It saved
 considerable judicial effort and time by allowing Judges to
 obviate the distinction between artificial and natural persons
 where it was not relevant. The conferral of legal personality
 was thus a tool of legal necessity and convenience. Legal
 personality does not denote human nature or human attributes.
 Legal personality is a recognition of certain rights and duties in
 law. An object, even after the conferral of legal personality,
 cannot express any will but it represents certain interests,
 rights, or benefits accruing to natural persons. Courts confer
 legal personality to overcome shortcomings perceived in the
 law and to facilitate practical adjudication. By ascribing rights
 and duties to artificial legal persons (imbued with a legal
 personality), the law tackles and fulfils both necessity and Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 47 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 convenience. By extension, courts ascribe legal personality to
 effectively adjudicate upon the claims of natural persons
 deriving benefits from or affected by the corpus upon which
 legal personality is conferred. The corollary of this principle is
 that the rights ascribed by courts to the corpus are limited to
 those necessary to address the existing shortcomings in the law
 and efficiently adjudicate claims..." 98. The petitioner has opposed the impugned orders which state that
 Union of India, and not DW-1, or DW-2, is the party in the present case and
 that Union of India is not a real person who needs to appear in this case.
 Against this, the petitioner has raised the contention that when a party is a
 juristic person, then it must decide which of its witnesses it wants to produce
 as party in person, i.e., appear as a representative of the party, (Union of
 India herein), in the case. 99. Upon perusal of the above, it is crystallized that the Union of India is
 a body in principle which, not being a real person, can only be represented
 by its officials. The settled position of law with regard to juristic persons
 clearly excludes any such requirement of a juristic person necessarily having
 to present a representative or official as a party in person before a Court. The
 said principle has been observed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in M. Siddiq
 (Ram Janmabhumi Temple-5 J.) (Supra). 100. Therefore, it has been adequately settled in law that the concept of a
 juristic person has been created to ensure ease of adjudication, and allow an
 organization or an inanimate object, such as Union of India in the present
 case - to be treated as a „personality‟, having rights, duties and interests. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 This, however, does not mean, or mandate the juristic person having a, or
 being a „real person‟ or a „human being‟ as that would go against the very
 objective of convenience for which this concept has been evolved. 101. Thus, Union of India, who is a juristic person, being a party in a case
 is, in itself, adequate and it does not require that a „real human being‟ be
 given the onus of being the party in person to represent the Union of India in
 court. It is a well-settled practice that Union of India is represented by its
 counsels and there is no mandate of any official or anyone else, having to be
 assigned the title of party in person. Accordingly, the claim of the petitioner
 under Order XVIII Rule 3A of the CPC , is rendered infructuous in the
 present case, as the said provision talks about the „party‟ not being allowed
 to appear after the other witnesses, unless after obtaining permission from
 the Court. This has been also held in a recent judgment of this Court in Pradeep v. Savitri Sidana , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 5672, relevant extract of
 which is as under: 102. The rule is that the concerned party has to first enter the witness box
 before he would examine any other witness as his witness. However, Rule
 3A is an exception to that Rule. On plain language of the aforesaid
 provisions it would appear that permitting examination of the party itself,
 after he has already examined other witness as his witness, is not entirely
 prohibited. However, it is entirely the discretion of the Court to permit the Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 49 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 party concerned to enter the witness box at a subsequent point of time,
 provided, however, the Court is satisfied that there exists sufficient ground
 for taking such a course of action, and that the reasons so weighed with the
 Court will have to be recorded in the order permitting such a prayer. 103. Accordingly, in the present case, the party, i.e. Union of India is a
 juristic person, who cannot appear for itself as a witness, thus the abovesaid
 provision is not applicable to the peculiar facts of the instant case. Keeping
 in mind the same, the learned Trial Court rightly recorded the reason for its
 decision of dismissing the petitioner‟s objections and this Court is inclined
 to uphold the same due to the absence of any illegality therein. 104. Since, it has been deliberated that Rule 3A of Order XVIII of the
 CPC , is not applicable, therefore, at this stage, this Court shall look into the
 other objection raised by the petitioner, i.e., the third issue which is whether
 the learned Trial Court erred in allowing the respondent to lead evidence of
 DW-2 when the cross examination of DW-1 was pending. 105. It was argued on behalf of the petitioner that the respondent has
 abused the process of law and the procedure prescribed qua the examination
 of witness in a sequence. 106. A Coordinate Bench of this Court in the matter of Subishi Impex Pvt.
 Ltd. v. Osram India Pvt. Ltd. , 2017 SCC OnLine Del 11128, while dealing
 with the question as to can another witness be brought in before the
 examination of one witness is complete held that there is no such prohibition
 ascribed under the rules of procedure describing the examination of witness
 and the sequence or order of examination thereto. It observed as under: Thus, the judgments supra relating to prosecutions, in my view,
 would have no applicability to a civil suit. x x x 19. ...Here, PW-1 has not become unavailable for any such
 reason but owing to the respondent/plaintiff having chosen to
 give him up. Another difference in the present case is that here
 it is the petitioner/defendant who wants to rely on the
 uncompleted cross-examination of PW-1. However, in my view,
 the principle would remain the same. The only additional factor Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 51 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 which the Suit Court, while determining the probative value of
 the evidence of PW-1 will have to consider is, whether any
 adverse inference is to be drawn against the
 respondent/plaintiff for having so given up PW-1. While doing
 so, the possibility of PW-1, in his further cross-examination by
 the counsel for the petitioner/defendant, clarifying the part of
 the cross-examination which the petitioner/defendant wants to
 rely upon, and of the respondent/plaintiff reexamining PW-1
 will also have to be considered...." 107. In this regard, the petitioner herein has been unable to produce any
 provision of law which empowers this Court to direct the respondent to
 follow a particular order of examination of its witnesses or which empowers
 the Court to compel a party to give evidence. 108. As far as the law is concerned, there is no such provision in the rules
 of evidence or in the CPC which prescribes the manner or sequence of
 examination of a witness; therefore, this Court is of the view that the same is
 the prerogative of the party leading the evidence. 109. Since a fact in issue can be proved by a party either through his
 evidence or through the evidence of his witness, party to the suit has the
 option or freedom of choice as to how he should prove his case. So, it is not
 within the purview of the Court to give a direction to the party to give
 evidence as a witness in the first instance, before examining witnesses on his
 behalf. 110. Furthermore, under Section 137 of the Evidence Act, the provision of
 re-examination is given and the same is a right vested with a party. Taking
 the same into consideration, it is apparent that no such prejudice shall be Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 52 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 caused to the petitioner in the event the DW-2‟s evidence is allowed before
 the examination of DW-1 is concluded. The same is apparent due to the
 reasons that firstly, this Court has no right to instruct or direct a party or to
 prevent a witness from testifying as the same would tantamount to violation
 of the basic principles of law, and the same is to be abhorred. Secondly, the
 petitioner shall, by law, has the right to cross examine DW-2, and such right
 of the petitioner has not been either closed, or taken away by the learned
 Trial Court. Thirdly, it is the prerogative of the learned Trial Court that it can
 give less affect to the testimony and deposition of DW-2, if the same is
 found to be contrary or irregular in view of the rules of evidence. 111. Keeping in mind the above said observations, this Court is of the view
 that it may not consider the objections raised by the petitioner qua the
 presence of DW-2 during the examination of DW-1 and allowing the
 respondent to lead the evidence of DW-2 when the examination of DW-1
 remained incomplete. The only additional factor which the learned Court
 below, while determining the value of the evidence of DW-2 will have to
 consider is, whether any adverse inference is to be drawn against the
 petitioner/plaintiff for having not completing the evidence of DW-1 and
 letting the evidence of DW-2 to be taken on record after lapse of 6 years. It
 is pertinent to mention herein that examination of DW-2 is necessary for the
 purpose of proper adjudication. Further, this Court is of the view that if the
 examination of DW-2 is denied for technical failure, the same would result
 in miscarriage of justice. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 112. The petitioner in this regard has been unable to make out his case that
 a great prejudice shall be caused to it in the event DW-2‟s evidence is
 allowed, rather, this Court is of the considered view that in case the
 opportunity of leading evidence of DW-2 is denied to the respondent, it may
 lead to gross injustice to the respondent which cannot be cured and the same
 would be unjustified since it will amount to illegality which goes to the root
 of the matter. 113. Therefore, in light of the above it is held that no adverse inference
 shall be caused to the petitioner and the learned Trial Court was well within
 its jurisdiction to allow the evidence of DW-1 since the same is its
 discretion. In view of the observations made by this Court in the preceding
 paragraphs, it is apparent that the learned Trial Court had recorded its
 reasons for allowing DW-2 to appear as a witness after taking into
 consideration all the relevant facts and circumstances. This Court does not
 find any infirmity in the reasons record by the learned Court below in
 allowing the respondent‟s witness. 114. In regard to the second issue which is whether the petitioner‟s
 objection in view of Order XVIII Rule 4(1A) of the CPC , that the
 respondent was supposed to file the evidence of DW-1 and DW-2
 simultaneously, the analysis of the same is as under. 115. Upon perusal of the record, it has been observed that the list of
 witnesses filed by the respondent on 28th September, 2010 includes the
 names of DW-2 and a few other witnesses in addition to DW-1. This list was Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 54 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 filed at the very inception of the trial at the directions of the learned Trial
 Court, and both the above facts have been admitted by the petitioner as well. 116. Post the filing of the same, the respondent was directed by the leaned
 Court to file its evidence by way of affidavits on 14 th December, 2010; 17th
 March, 2011; 14th July, 2011; 24th October, 2011 and 28th February, 2010,
 following which the affidavit of DW-1, i.e., Ms. Kalpana Singh was finally
 filed on 8th August, 2012. 117. At this stage, it is pertinent to note that the petitioner neither advanced
 any contention against, nor objected to the non-filing of the affidavits of the
 other witnesses in the list filed by the respondent. The proceedings
 continued and despite several adjournments for the next six years, and
 persistent non-appearance/erratic appearance of DW-1 and DW-2, the
 petitioner did not raise any objections regarding the non-filing of affidavits
 for the other witnesses. 118. It is noted that the petitioner had ample opportunities to object or raise
 its concern qua the non-filing of the DW-2‟s evidence or non-filing of the
 evidence till the year 2015, which it failed to do. Moreover, after the
 enactment of amended Order XVIII Rule 3A, i.e., in the year 2015; the
 petitioner again never objected to the same, and it was only in the year 2017,
 when the respondent filed the evidence affidavit of DW-2, that the petitioner
 objected to the same on the ground that such filing cannot be allowed
 because the DW-2‟s evidence has been filed after a lapse of 6 years from
 the date of direction by the learned Trial Court, and that the same is also
 barred as per Order XVIII Rule 4 (1A) of the CPC . Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 119. It is observed by this Court that it was not before 22nd May, 20172017,
 when DW-2 was finally bought before the court to tender his affidavit, that
 the petitioner raised an objection to the non-filing of the evidence affidavit
 till now, and against it being filed at that stage. 120. Considering the above, the petitioner cannot be allowed to raise the
 objection at such a later stage, despite the issue having been persistent for
 the last 7 years. The list of witnesses had been filed in the year 2010, by the
 respondent, and it is reasonably presumed that the petitioner was well aware
 that affidavits had to be filed for all of these witnesses. 121. Furthermore, on 5th February, 2013 the respondent had filed an
 application bearing IA no. 1993/2013, to replace the affidavit of DW-1 that
 had already been tendered with another affidavit, which according to the
 petitioner contained completely new case other than what was set out in the
 earlier affidavit. In view of the substantial changes in the affidavit, the
 petitioner objected to the replacement of the affidavit. On 6th February, 2013
 after hearing both parties, the application was dismissed as withdrawn with
 the liberty to the respondent to file a supplementary affidavit which was only
 clarificatory in nature and giving exhibit numbers in a proper manner. Even
 then the petitioner did not raise his objections. 122. Also, the petitioner has submitted before this Court that DW-2 was
 present throughout the examination of DW-1 and therefore, the evidence of
 DW-2 cannot be allowed to be taken on record since the same is a tactic to
 cover up the lacunae which arose during the examination of DW-1. Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20 123. In this regard, this Court is of the considered view that witnesses
 cannot be removed on mere grounds of presence at the time of another
 witness‟s deposition. Section 135 , Evidence Act, to which reference has
 been made in the foregoing paragraphs rules the order of examination of
 witness and it provide that the order in which witnesses are produced and
 examined shall be regulated by the law and practice for the time being
 relating to civil and criminal procedure respectively, and in the absence of
 any such law by the discretion of the Court. The same has been reproduced
 as under: 124. Section 135 deals with the order of production and examination of
 witnesses in a proceeding. There is always a power vesting in the Court to
 direct the witnesses, who are present in the Court, to go out of the Court
 when the evidence of other witnesses is being recorded. The Courts have
 been consistently exercising such powers. The said power is exercised as a
 rule in criminal cases with a view to avoid prejudice to the accused and to
 ensure fairness of trial. In civil cases, the Court can exercise the power
 depending upon the facts of each case. 125. The High Court of Gauahti in the matter of Kailash Chandra Sarma
 v. Biraj Krishna Das, 2008 SCC OnLineGau 450, with regard to the
 provision enshrined under Section 135 of the Evidence Act, observed that in Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 57 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 the absence of any law, it would be the sound exercise of discretion of the
 learned trial Court that the cross-examination of the witnesses, whose
 examination had already been started, if possible, shall be allowed to be
 completed before starting cross-examination of the other witnesses. 126. It is imperative to take into consideration that this does not authorise a
 Court of law to refuse the examination of any particular witness who might
 have done something which is not very desirable. The said principle has also
 been followed by the High Court of Bombay in the matter of Maharashtra
 Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Ltd. v. M. Surda
 Corporation , 1983 SCC OnLine Bom 149. Thus, a mere contravention of
 the said provision does not allow the Court to prevent a witness from
 appearing before it, as that would amount to a gross injustice to the other
 party, by denying them the opportunity to lead evidence. 127. In view of the above, it is held that despite that no objection was
 raised by the petitioner until DW-2 attempted to file his evidence affidavit.
 Therefore, this objection cannot be accepted at such a later stage, as it would
 constitute unreasonable delay and a gross misuse of both the time of the
 Court as well as the relevant provisions of law. This Court does not find any
 merit in the objections raised by the petitioner qua the instant issue and the
 such contentions of the petitioner are accordingly rejected being bereft of
 any merits. 128. The approach of the petitioner is very hyper technical which this
 Court is not inclined to entertain. Considering the aforesaid, it is held that
 there is no illegality or „material‟ irregularity in the eyes of this Court that Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 58 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 could be drawn from the perusal of the impugned orders, and accordingly,
 this Court is of the considered view that the learned Trial Court has rightly
 passed the impugned orders. CONCLUSION 129. The mere fact that a decision of the Trial Court is erroneous due to a
 question of fact or of law does not amount to any illegality or a material
 irregularity. Only those matters are to be allowed under the revisional
 jurisdiction of the High Court, wherein, there has been an irregular exercise,
 or non - exercise, or the illegal assumption of the jurisdiction by the Court
 below. It is a settled law that under Section 115 of the CPC, this Court has to
 look only into the issue of the jurisdiction of the Court below in deciding
 any application and shall not go into the merits of the case. 130. It has been deliberated by way of the aforementioned judgments and
 discussions of facts that there are no errors of jurisdiction, as explained in
 brief in the foregoing paragraphs, and there is no force in the arguments
 advanced by the petitioner, hence, not inviting the attention of this Court.
 This is particularly true when this Court has already arrived at a finding that
 the examination of the said witness appears to be necessary for the purpose
 of determining the real question of controversy between the parties. 131. Therefore, it is held that the petitioner has been unable to make out a
 case for grant of relief of revision of the impugned orders under Section 115 of the CPC. The learned Trial Court has exercised its jurisdiction in Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 59 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20
 accordance with the law and hence, the arguments advanced by the
 petitioner against the impugned orders are rejected. 132. In light of the above discussion of facts and law, impugned orders
 dated 22nd May, 2017 and 26th August, 2017, passed by the learned ADJ-01,
 Patiala House Court, New Delhi, in CS no. 57416/2016, is hereby, upheld. 133. Accordingly, the instant petition stands dismissed on the grounds of
 non-maintainability and also being devoid of any merits. Pending
 applications, if any, also stand dismissed. 134. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith

 (CHANDRA DHARI SINGH)
 JUDGE
 DECEMBER 20, 2023
 gs/ryp/db Signature Not Verified C.R.P. 243/2017 Digitally Signed By:SARIKA BHAMOO VERMA Page 60 of 60 Signing Date:26.12.2023
17:24:20