The ministry’s parliamentary response also included a summary of steps taken by the Election Commission to restrain fake news during elections.

The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in response to a parliamentary question said that punitive action has been initiated against fake news in six cases between 2020 and 2021 by the Press Council of India. The answer was given in response to questions concerning fake news on social media posed by three Lok Sabha MPs— Dulal Chand Goswani from Janata Dal (United), Mitesh Patel and Shardaben Patel from the BJP.

Why it matters? The c irculation of fake news has grown tremendously and has been aided by the rise of social media which has become the primary source of news, especially in the midst of the pandemic. In a government advisory issued to social media companies in May this year, the Ministry for Electronics and Information Technology said that “there is a trend of circulation of misinformation, false/misleading news and sharing anonymous data related to Coronavirus in various social media platforms creating panic among the public.” Fake news is also fuelling vaccine hesitancy in the country as people refuse the inoculation for fear of impotence and death.

The ministry revealed details about the efforts to curb fake news by government bodies. They are as follows:

On the question of steps taken to combat fake news during elections, the ministry enumerated the following courses of action taken by the EC to restrain misinformation:

The ministry, in its response, also listed the steps that it has undertaken to raise awareness on issues related to fake news.

In its response, the ministry said:

Also read:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama and post your comment

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event