Only gaming platforms offering or planning to offer real money games, or online games notified under India’s gaming rules , can be granted membership to Self-Regulatory Bodies (SRB) overseeing the industry, suggests the All India Gaming Federation’s (AIGF) model charter for SRBs. The SRB should also take no longer than three months to approve or reject the verification of a member’s online game.

Viewed by MediaNama , the charter suggests how SRBs can verify online games, fairly address consumer complaints, and protect players from financial and psychological harm.

“Since there is little academic or policy research on what a model charter may look like, we believe holistic research in this aspect is the need of the hour,” said the Federation’s press release. “The key idea is that any charter for all SRBs should, firstly, cover all the obligations in the IT Rules [through which the gaming rules have been brought], secondly, it should also go a step ahead and reflect broad international best practices and finally, should keep user protection as the main focus.”

The model charter has been circulated with civil society, lawyers, mental health experts, player welfare representatives, and the gaming industry for comments, noted the press release.

No SRBs have been registered since the gaming rules were notified in April—the government will verify online games until one is formed, India’s Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar recently claimed.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with top stories from MediaNama and around the world, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Speaking at a MediaNama event earlier this year, lawyer Jay Sayta remained unconvinced about whether SRBs, which may inevitably be funded by wealthy and established gaming companies, can truly regulate gaming companies independently. “When a body is a caged parrot, how does it expect to hold its masters accountable?” Sayta asked. “How do we solve this inherent contradiction between funding and the structure of the body [which the rules haven’t solved for]?”

Responding to Sayta, Koan Advisory’s Vivan Sharan suggested one way of getting around this potential for bias—specific bodies could possibly certify self-regulatory bodies as kosher, in that they truly operate at an “arm’s distance” from their members. “I don’t know of bodies in India capable of doing this, so offshoring [this task] is a distinct possibility,” Sharan said.

An audience member added that presuming the worst may be unfair to the industry. “This is an industry that went to the government and asked for this regulatory system,” they argued. “There is an incentive to regulate properly because the option of de-recognition [of the SRB by the government] also exists [within the gaming rules]. There are a lot of positive incentives with the current framework. Why are we looking at these bodies as if they’ll have all these negative consequences?”

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event