1. The present suit for recovery of the amount of Rs. 5,09,015/- together with the pendente-lite and future interest has been instituted
 by the plaintiff against the defendants under the provisions of the Digitally signed RAJ by RAJ KUMAR
 Date: Sandeep Virmani Vs. S.I. Energy Ventures Pvt. Ltd. 2. The facts in brief, necessary for the disposal of the present suit for
 recovery of the amount of Rs. 5,09,015/-, as disclosed by the plaintiff
 in the plaint are that the plaintiff is the proprietor of Becco Storage
 Systems having its registered office at B-32, Sec-67, Noida, U.P. It
 has been further stated that the firm of the plaintiff is actively engaged
 in the business of trading of industrial cables and the manufacturing
 and supplying of high quality storage systems together with related
 industrial equipments. It has been further stated that the firm of the
 plaintiff has built up a strong reputation in the market by catering to
 the requirements of its clients. 3. The plaintiff, in the plaint, has further stated that the defendant
 no. 1 is a private limited company and the defendant no. 2 to 6 are
 the Directors/ Authorized Representatives of the defendant no. 1
 company. It has been further stated as the defendants no. 2 to 6 are
 responsible for taking the decisions and for managing the day to day
 affairs of the defendant no. 1 company. It has been further stated that
 the defendant no. 1 company is involved in the business of Industrial
 Automation in Energy Sugar and Fertilizers. 4. It has been further stated that the defendants approached the firm
 of the plaintiff in the year 2022 for purchase and supply of the goods
 and accordingly, the plaintiff firm has been maintaining an open,
 regular and running account in the name of the defendants to record
 all the transactions in between the parties pertaining to all the
 business dealings and the purchases made by the defendants from
 time to time. It has been further stated that the goods were supplied
 by the plaintiff to the defendants as per the demand of the
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAJ KUMAR
 RAJ Date: 5. It has been further stated that the defendants informed the
 plaintiff that they had allegedly dispatched a cheque bearing no.
 002633 dated 14.05.2022 for the amount of Rs.5,09,016/- through
 courier to the registered address of the plaintiff. The plaintiff has
 stated that however, the said cheque was never received by the
 plaintiff. 6. It has been further stated that after coming to know the fact that
 the plaintiff failed to receive the above-said cheque, the defendants
 enquired about the status of the said cheque from Trackon Couriers
 Pvt. Ltd., through whom the defendants had booked the
 consignment, the defendants came to know that the said cheque was
 misplaced from the head office of Trackon Courier Company. It has
 been further stated that the defendants received a message from their
 bank, after few days to the effect that the said cheque had been
 honored and encashed in account no.645801010050749 at Union
 Bank Branch, Karawal Nagar, in favour of Becco Storage Systems
 and informed about the same to the plaintiff. It has been further
 stated that the plaintiff denied the receipt of the cheque and asked the
 defendants to clear the dues of the plaintiff. 7. It has been further stated that the plaintiff firm duly filed a
 police complaint against Trackon Courier Pvt. Ltd. and its employee,
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAJ KUMAR
 RAJ Date: 8. It has been further stated that the defendants under took to clear
 the outstanding amount to the plaintiff only after receipt of the
 amount of Rs.5,09,016/- back from Trackon Courier Company and
 its employee. It has been further stated that the assertion of the
 defendants that payment was done through dispatch of a cheque
 through an agent, is legally insufficient to discharge the liability of
 the defendants towards the plaintiff. It has been further stated that it
 is well settled law that the acts performed by an agent, within the
 scope of his authority, binds the principal and the defendants bear
 the burden of establishing not merely the act of dispatch but the
 completion of delivery to constitute valid performance. 9. It has been further stated that the defendants have also filed a
 commercial suit against Trackon Couriers Pvt. Ltd. bearing CS
 (Comm) No-36/2024, titled as S.I. Energy Ventures Pvt. Ltd. Vs.
 Trackon Couriers Pvt. Ltd. & Anr., which was decreed in favour of
 the defendants vide orders dated 28.03.2025 but even then, the
 defendants failed to pay the outstanding amount to the plaintiff. 10. It has been further stated that despite the legal notice dated
 26.03.2025, the defendants failed to pay the outstanding amount and
 rather, the defendants issued a false and frivolous reply dated
 17.04.2025 to the legal notice of the plaintiff. It has been further
 stated that Pre-Institution Mediation process was instituted by the
 plaintiff before South-West District, Legal Service Authority against
 the defendants on 15.04.2025, the defendants appeared before the Digitally signed by RAJ KUMAR RAJ Date: Sandeep Virmani Vs. S.I. Energy Ventures Pvt. Ltd. Dated 25.02.2026 Page No. 7 of 25
 said authority but the settlement could not be arrived at. It has been
 further stated that the above-said outstanding amount of Rs.
 5,09,015/- has not been paid till date by the defendants and as such,
 the defendants are liable to pay the interest @ 24% per annum on the
 above-said amount to the plaintiff firm and hence, the present suit. 11. On the basis of the above-said allegations as contained in the
 plaint, the plaintiff has prayed for a money decree for a sum of Rs.
 5,09,015/- together with the pendente-lite and future interest @24 %
 per annum in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants. The
 plaintiff has also prayed for a decree for a sum of Rs. 50,000/- on
 account of the litigation expenses. CASE OF THE DEFENDANTS AS CONTAINED IN THE
 WRITTEN STATEMENT 12. The defendants, in the written statement, have taken the stand
 that the present suit is misconceived, frivolous and not maintainable.
 The defendants have taken the stand that they have already
 discharged their liability by issuing the cheque no. 002693 dated
 14.05.2022 for Rs.5,09,016/- in favour of the plaintiff and by
 dispatching the same through a recognized courier service. 13. The defendants have admitted that they had purchased certain
 goods from the plaintiff amounting to Rs.5,09,016/-. It has been
 further stated that on the request of the representative of the plaintiff,
 who had asked the defendants to send the cheque on the registered
 address of the plaintiff, through any private courier service, the
 defendants had hired the services of Trackon Courier, which is
 involved in the business of courier services across India. It has been
 further stated that the defendants sent the abovesaid cheque to the
 registered office of the plaintiff through Trackon Couriers Pvt. Ltd.
 on 04.05.2022 and the plaintiff was duly informed about the proof of
 Digitally
 signed by RAJ
CS (comm) No. 431/25 RAJ KUMAR
 Date: 14. It has been further stated that the subsequent enquiry done by the
 defendants revealed that the cheque was fraudulently diverted by
 Manoj Ahirwar, an employee of Franchisee Royal Enterprises of
 Trackon Couriers, who floated a bogus entity with a deceptively
 similar name. It has been further stated that the defendants
 immediately lodged a police complaint dated 15.07.2022, PS
 Dwarka, New Delhi and the plaintiff also got lodged FIR bearing no.
 265/2022 dated 25.06.2022 with PS Gautam Budh Nagar, U.P.,
 resulting in the arrest of the said employee. It has been further stated
 that the defendants acted in good faith and took all the reasonable
 steps to recover the misappropriated amount. It has been further
 stated that the defendants also filed a commercial suit bearing CS
 (Comm) No-36/2024, titled as S.I. Energy Ventures Pvt. Ltd. Vs.
 Trackon Couriers Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. It has been further stated that the
 abovesaid suit was decreed against Manoj Ahirwar only vide
 judgment dated 28.03.2025 but the suit against Trackon Couriers
 was dismissed on alleged non-compliance with sections 12 & 16 of Digitally signed by RAJ KUMAR RAJ Date: Sandeep Virmani Vs. S.I. Energy Ventures Pvt. Ltd. Dated 25.02.2026 Page No. 9 of 25
 the Carriage by Road Act, 2007 . It has been further stated that the
 defendants have already preferred an appeal bearing no. RFA
 (Comm) 536/2025 against the judgment dated 28.03.2025 which is
 pending disposal before the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. 15. It has been further stated that in view of the decree passed in CS
 (Comm) 36/2024 and the pending appeal, the defendants cannot be
 directed to make the payment once again for the same cause of
 action, as it would amount to unjust enrichment and double recovery,
 which is impermissible u/s 73 of the India Contract Act, 1872. It has
 been further stated that the dispatch of the cheque and its clearance
 constitute valid discharge and the fraudulent diversion can not revive
 liability. It has been prayed that the suit institued by the plaintiff be
 dismissed with exemplary costs. REPLICATION: 16. Replication has been filed by the plaintiff to the written
 statement of the defendants reiterating and reaffirming the stand as
 taken by the plaintiff in the plaint and denying the contents of the
 written statement filed by the defendants. ISSUES 17. From the pleadings of the parties, vide orders dated 25.10.2025,
 this Court framed the following issues in the present matter: 18. The plaintiff Sh.Sandeep Virmani has examined himself as PW1
 and in his evidence by way of affidavit Ex. PW-1/A on record, he
 has reiterated and reaffirmed the stand as taken by the plaintiff in
 the plaint. PW-1 has relied upon a number of documents, which are
 being mentioned as under: 19. In the cross-examination, PW1 was asked a question to the effect
 that the defendants sent the cheque through private courier services at
 the request of the plaintiff and PW1 answered that despite the request
 to the defendants to make the payment through RTGS, the defendants
 denied the same by saying that the cheque shall be sent through
 regular courier company of the defendants. PW1 has further stated
 that he had made a request to the defendants to make the payment
 through RTGS but since his request was not accepted, the cheque was
 to be accepted as no other option was left open. PW1 has further
 stated that the defendants shared the proof of dispatch with him only
 after a gap of 15-20 days from the date of dispatch. PW1 has further
 stated that he enquired about the status of the cheque from the
 defendants and defendants informed him that the cheque was already
 in the hands of the courier services company. PW1 has further stated
 that he had personally visited the office of Trackon Courier Services
 at Sector-4, Noida in the month of June/ July 2022 and the officials
 of the courier company asked him to contact the defendant company.
 PW1 gave a telephonic call to the defendant company. The defendant
 company enquired from the courier company and told him that the
 cheque in question was stolen. PW1 has further stated that officials of
 the defendant company told him that the cheque in question was got
 encashed by forging the name of the plaintiff. PW1 has admitted it to
 Digitally
 signed by
 RAJ KUMAR
 RAJ Date: DEFENDANT'S EVIDENCE 20. The defendants have examined Sh. Shekhar, as their Authorized
 Representative as DW1 and in his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.
 DW-1/A on record, he has reiterated and reaffirmed the stand as
 taken by the defendants in the written statement. DW-1 has relied
 upon the following documents: Digitally
 signed by
 RAJ KUMAR
 RAJ Date: +0530

 Dated 25.02.2026 Page No. 15 of 25
 has relied upon the cross-examination of DW1 and has argued that
 DW1 has admitted the entire case of the plaintiff in the cross-
 examination. FINAL ARGUMENTS ADDUCED BY THE DEFENDANT 27. Whereas, on the other hand, during the course of final arguments,
 Ld. Counsel for the defendants has argued that admittedly the fraud
 was committed by a third party namely Mr. Manoj Ahirwar and as
 such, the liability of the defendants stands discharged. It has been
 further argued that the plaintiff is suffering because of the fraud
 committed by a third party. It has been further argued that case has
 been filed by the plaintiff after a gap of three years. It has been further
 argued that the FIR has already been lodged by the plaintiff himself
 against the courier company and as such, the defendants are not liable
 to make the payment of the amount of the cheque to the plaintiff. 28. I have carefully gone through the entire material available on
 record and heard the rival submissions of both the Ld. counsels for the
 parties. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS
Issues no. 1, 2 & 3 29. All these three issues are being taken up together for disposal as
 the same are connected inter-se and overlap each other. Issue No.1
 pertains to the objections of the defendants as contained in the written
 statement and as such, the onus to prove issue no.1 has been placed
 upon the defendants. Issues no. 2 &3 pertain to the prayer clause of the
 present suit and as such, the onus to prove issues no. 2&3 has been
 placed upon the plaintiff. FACTUAL BACKGROUND AND THE EVIDENCE LED BY THE
PARTIES Digitally signed
 by RAJ KUMAR
 RAJ Date: It is also not in dispute that in order to recover the amount from the
 above said accused and from Trackon Couriers Pvt. Ltd., the
 defendant filed a CS (COMM) No. 36/2024 titled as 'S.I. Energy
 Ventures Pvt. Ltd. vs. Trackon Couriers Pvt. Ltd. & Anr.' but the
 above said suit came to be decreed vide judgement dated 28.03.2025
 against the accused Manoj Ahirwar only but not against the courier
 company. It is not in dispute that the defendant herein has preferred
 RFA (COMM) No. 536/2025 against the dismissal of the suit against
 Trackon Couriers which is pending disposal. Digitally
 signed by RAJ
 RAJ KUMAR
 Date: PLEA OF THE DEFENDANTS THAT THE DEFENDANTS
 STOOD DISCHARGED BY DISPATCH AND ENCASHMENT OF
 THE ABOVE-SAID CHEQUE. 33. The crux of the controversy, involved in the present suit, is to the
 effect as to whether the defendants stood discharged by dispatch and
 encashment of the cheque in question despite the fact that the above-
 said cheque never reached in the hands of the plaintiff. Admittedly, as
 admitted by the defendants themselves, the above said cheque was
 misappropriated by a third party. 34. It has to be seen that the Hon'ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh, in
 the judgment titled as "The Project Manager, L&t Company and
 Others vs Voleti Venkateswarlu and Others ", Appeal No. 476/2016
 decided on 16.04.2025 has held as under: It may be true that an agency could be express or implied.
 Admitted case on both sides is that there is no express Digitally signed by RAJ KUMAR RAJ Date: 35. In the above-said case as well, the Hon'ble High Court of Andhra
 Pradesh was dealing with an issue of misappropriation of the cheque
 by an agent. The Hon'ble High Court came to the conclusion that the
 agent was acting on behalf of the appellant company and the mischief
 played by the agent by fraudulently opening an account and encashing
 the cheque was a matter in between the company and the agent with
 which the plaintiff had no concern. If the plaintiff had not received the
 payment that was due from the appellants, the liability of the appellants
 did not cease. Consequently, the appeal was dismissed. 36. Now, coming to the evidence, PW1 has categorically stated in the
 cross-examination that the defendant was requested to make the
 payment through RTGS but the defendant denied the same by saying
 that the cheque will be sent through regular courier company of the
 Digitally
 signed by RAJ
 RAJ KUMAR
 Date: There is ample material availalble on record, to conclude, in the form
 of cross-examination of DW1 that the cheque in question was sent by
 the defendant company to the plaintiff through its regular courier
 company. As such, Trackon Courier Services was merely an agent of
 the defendants and not that of the plaintiff. 39. DW1 has categorically admitted that the plaintiff has no role in the
 misplacement and misuse of cheque No. 002693 dated 14.05.2022 for
 Rs.5,09,016/-. DW1 has categorically admitted that the above-said
 cheque never reached at the registered office of the plaintiff and the
 plaintiff never received the payment of the outstanding dues. DW1 has
 categorically admitted that Trackon Courier Services company is liable
 to the defendant company for the recovery of the amount in question. 40. Ld. Counsel for the defendants, during the course of the arguments,
 has vehemently argued that the present case has been instituted after a
 gap of three years. DW1 in the cross-examination has admitted that the Digitally signed by RAJ KUMAR RAJ Date: 41. I have no hestitation to hold that the ratio of judgment titled as the
 "The Project Manager, L&t Company and Others vs Voleti
 Venkateswarlu and Others ", is squrely applicable to the facts and
 circumstances of the present case. Trackon courier services was an
 agent of the defendant no.1 company. The misappropriation of the
 cheque by Mr. Manoj Ahirwar, the employee of the Franchisee of the
 Courier company is a matter in between the courier company and the
 defendant company and the plaintiff has no concern with the same. 42. If weighed on the scale of pre-ponderance of probabilities, the
 litmus test which is applied in civil cases, the testimony of PW1
 appears to the Court to be more reliable and trustworthy as compared
 to the testimony of DW1. I have no hesitation to hold that there is no
 substance in the submissions of the defendants, when it is argued that
 if the defendants are asked to make the payment to the plaintiff, then,
 the same would amount to unjust enrichment, which is impermissible
 under Section 73 of the Indian Contract Act. To my mind, the
 defendants have utterly failed to prove that they stand discharged
 under Section 82 of N.I. Act. The cross-examination of DW1 is
 sufficient enough to conclude that the outstanding liability of the
 plaintiff has not been discharged till date by the defendants. Since the
 outstanding amount to the extent of Rs.5,09,015/- has not been
 received by the plaintiff till date, to my mind, the plaintiff has been
 able to prove that the plaintiff is entitled for the recovery of the amount
 Digitally
 signed by RAJ
 RAJ KUMAR
 Date: 43. The plaintiff has prayed for the interest @ 24% per annum on the
 principle amount of Rs.5,09,015/-. It is true that the transaction in
 question is commercial in nature but even then, to my mind, the above-
 said rate of interest appears to be on a higher side. As such, the plaintiff
 is awarded the interest @ 9% per annum from the date of filing of the
 present suit till the date of realization of the decreetal amount on the
 principle amount of Rs.5,09,015/-. 44. The plaintiff has also prayed for a decree for the amount of
 Rs.50,000/- on account of litigation expenses. However, nothing has
 been placed on record by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff has
 incurred actual costs of Rs.50,000/-. As such, the costs of the suit are
 awarded in favour of the plaintiff. 45. In the light of the above discussion, the issue no.1 is decided against
 the defendants. Issues no.2 & 3 are decided in favour of the plaintiff
 and against the defendants to the effect that the plaintiff is held entitled
 for recovery of the amount of Rs.5,09,015/- together with the interest
 @ 9% per annum from the date of institution of the present suit till the
 date of realization of the decreetal amount.
CONCLUSION
Issue No. 4: 46. In the light of the above said discussion and findings recorded on
 issues no. 1, 2 & 3, the suit instituted by the plaintiff is decreed in
 favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants for an amount of
 Rs.5,09,015/- (Rupees Five lacs Nine Thousand and Fifteen only)
 along with interest @ 9% per annum from the date of the institution of Digitally signed by RAJ KUMAR RAJ Date: 47. Issue no. 4 is decided accordingly. 48. Decree sheet be prepared by the Reader, after payment of the
 additional Court Fees, if any. 49. File be consigned to the record room. RAJ
 Digitally
 signed by RAJ
 KUMAR
 Date: