I have bought the holiday package from Future Choice Club after their rigorous follow up and assuring that they provide the best 4 star accommodation for vacations, across the country and abroad. I have tried booking through them in 2021 itself but the terms and conditions and the accommodation offered at that time was very basic and not even 2 star properties, which i denied to acceptand booked my holiday on my own. Again, in 2023 i approached them for a good accommodation in Goa, which to my surprise again, they have offered the properties which not even showcased on their website. When inquired about properties shown on the website, they simply said that their tie ups with hotels / resorts changes every year. We have purchased the package only after their showing the 4 star property on their site and assuring that we would be getting the best of properties on all the locations in India and abroad. They have taken approx. 11000/- again at the time of booking as their annual fee / handling charges, whereas the property booked for me was not even 2 star property. The booking is done in VITS Shanti Solitaire, Arpora, Goa, where even service for drinking water is not being provided. As at the time of arrival when asked for water the receptionist simply shown me the water cooler installed there to take it on my own. The rooms and bathroom were very small and not even provided the towels in the room, even after repeated requests they provided the towels on the 3rd day of my stay. The approach to the hotel was also very narrow and no activity area other than a small pool. The Future Choice Club has promised and shown the properties having 4 star or more at the time of selling the package, but at the time of booking simply change the properties by saying that their annual contract with the property is over and now they have some other properties to offer, whic hare obviously sub-standard properties and easily available in the range of annual fee payable to them. They are clearly making fool of the people and collecting money by showing properties on their site, which in actuality are not provided and even do not offer properties shown on their site at the time of booking and offer properties which are nowhere mentioned on their site even. This is clearly a fraud and cheating consumers. I need my purchase price refund with interest and penalties only.