Judgment pronounced through Video Conference. The original

 application is disposed of with directions vide separate Judgment. Pending interlocutory application, if any, shall stand disposed of. Sd/- Justice K. Ramakrishnan, J.M.

 Sd/- based on the News item in Chennai Express newspaper
 dated 03.03.2020 , "Back to the Brink" 6. The Water Resources Organisation (WRO) and Public Works
 Department (PWD) was designated as nodal agency for co-ordination
 and also for providing all necessary logistics for this purpose. 7. The Chief Engineer, Public Works Department (PWD) and Water
 Resources Organisation (WRO), Chennai was Suo Motu impleaded as
 additional 9th respondent in the matter on the same date of admitting
 the matter. Thereafter, the matter has been adjourned from time to time
 by successive notifications. 8. Since no reports were filed, the matter was taken up on 25.09.2020 and
 on that day the matter was adjourned to 25.11.2020 for consideration of
 report to be filed by the Joint Committee and also the respective
 departments. 9. Thereafter, the matter was taken up again on 29.01.2021 and on that day
 this Tribunal had considered the report submitted by the Executive
 Engineer, Public Works Department, Lower Palar Basin Circle, received
 on 29.01.2021 and extracted in Para (3) of the order. It was mentioned
 in the report that the Putheri Lake is not being maintained by the Public
 Works Department, but it is under the maintenance and the control of
 then, Pallavaram Municipality. The inspection was conducted on
 20.08.2020 and they wanted some time to file the report. It was further
 mentioned that there were plans for rejuvenation and restoration of
 tanks including Putheri lake in overall Kovalam Basin (comes under
 Chengalpattu and Chennai District) under Comprehensive Flood
 Mitigation Project with an estimated amount of Rs.2,000/- Crore which
 also has components for creating bio-diversity parks/tree planting
 around the banks of the water body protecting the lake against future
 encroachment and Detailed Project Report (DPR) was prepared and
 sent to the Government and after getting approval from the World
 Bank, the project would be executed. 10. Thereafter, this Tribunal also considered the report submitted by the
 Pallavaram Municipality dated 06.01.2021 and extracted in Para (6) of
 the order wherein, they had stated that during monsoon of 2019 there
 was a huge inflow of sewage in the Underground Sewage Scheme
 (UGSS) of Pallavarm Municipality and the same was caused due to
 overflow of sewage mixed with rain water from the pumping lines,
 lifting stations and pumping stations in few places, particularly in the
 lifting station in Aishwarya Nagar there was overflow of the water that
 accumulated in the collection tank as well. As there was a power
 failure at the time of the excessive rains, the overflow of the sewage
 with flood waters had occurred. Due to this, the water mixed with
 sewage had drained into the Putheri Lake through the natural channels
 in that area. In order to rectify the same, the capacity of the said lifting Page 7 of 32 station was improved by increasing the power of the pumps installed in
 the Lifting station. In addition a new Power Generator to power the
 lifting station at times of power failure was also installed. Two 5HP
 motors were replaced with two 10 HP motors and the allied pumps.
 This essentially increased the capacity of the Lifting station to more
 than double the capacity and said overflow had been now completely
 addressed. Because of the generator provided, even during power
 failure, the pumping would not be stopped. 11. During, October 2020 monsoon and till date, there was no overflow
 from this lifting station occurred causing any inconvenience. The lake
 has two parts namely, south and north and it is separated by the radial
 road. The lifting station is on the southern part of the lake and the work
 of deepening the lake in order to restore the capacity was carried out by
 the Municipality and completed in the month of June, 2020 utilising
 CSR funds through the District Collector, then Kancheepuram District.
 The work involved desilting, deepening formation of bund, footpath
 around the periphery. With regard to the northern part, the same was
 deepened with the assistance of NGO by name 'Pasumi Sei' and the
 lake has been restored to the full capacity. On 30.12.2020, huge amount
 of solid waste was seen dumped in the northern part of the Putheri
 Lake on the night of 29.12.2020 and immediate action was taken to
 remove the same and it was removed completely. 12. Since the Joint Committee had not filed the report, they were directed to
 file the report and adjourned the case for that purpose. The matter was
 taken up again on 18.02.2021 and on that day, this Tribunal had
 considered the newspaper report published in 'New Indian Express'
 Chennai Edition dated 10.02.2021 under the caption "Months old
 garbage still floating in Putheri Lake". It was also alleged in the
 newspaper report that what was stated by the municipality that
 garbage dumped was removed was not correct and had till continued.
 So the matter was again adjourned for filing further report by the
 municipality. 13. The matter was again taken up on 17.03.2021 and on that day, this
 Tribunal had considered the report submitted by the Joint Committee
 dated nil, e-filed on 17.03.2021 and extracted in Para (3) of the order
 which reads as follows:- 1. COMPLIANCE OF THE DIRECTION

 In due compliance of the orders of the Hon'ble National Green Tribunal, water
 samples were collected by the officials of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board along
 with RDO, Tambaram and officials from Pallavaram Municipality from the Putheri
 Lake in Pallavaram on 20/08/2020. Statement showing the value of the Physico chemical parameters analysed
 Sl. Parameters Units Point of TNPCB
 No Collection Standards
 Putheri (Inland
 Lake in Surface
 Pallavaram Water)

 1 pH @ 25oC No. 7.84 5.5-9 2 Total Suspended mg/L 56 100 Solids @ 105oC
 3 Total Dissolved Solids mg/L 1006 2100
 @ 180oC 4 BOD @ 27oC mg/L 40 30 5 COD mg/L 360 250 6 Copper as Cu mg/L <0.033 3
 7 Zinc as Zn mg/L <0.01 1
 8 Cadmium as Cd mg/L <0.013 2
 9 Lead as Pb mg/L <0.07 0.1
 10 Nickel as Ni mg/L <0.05 3
 11 Total Chromium Cr mg/L <0.01 2
 12 Hexavalent Chromium mg/L <0.01 0.1
 Cr+6
 13 Iron as Fe mg/L <0.01 - 14 D.O mg/L 5 5mg/l and
 above

Statement showing the value of the Bacteriological parameters analysed
 Sl. Parameters Units Point of Primary Water
 No Collection Quality Criteria for
 Putheri Lake Bathing Waters
 in prescribed by Central
 Pallavaram Pollution Control
 Board
 1 Total Coliform MPN 1700 500 or less. The Report of analysis of the water samples collected from the said water body reveals
 that the Physico chemical parameters analysed satisfy the Inland surface water standards
 prescribed by the Board. Furthermore the water sample collected from the Putheri Lake in
 Pallavaram analysed for Bacteriological parameter. Total Coliform exceeds the standards
 and the (Faecal Coliform) meets the Primary Water Quality Criteria for Bathing Waters
 prescribed by Central Pollution Control Board. 2. REPORT OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT: 3. REPORT FROM COMMISSIONER, PALLAVARAM MUNICIPALITY 1. Pallavapuram is a Special Gade Municipality 2. Location of the said Putheri lake:Survey No.273 of Zamin Pallavaram Village 3. Extent of Putheri lake: 4.23 hectares 4. Total Area of the Pallavaram Municipality : 18.01 Sq.Km 5. Total Population of the Pallavaram Municipality: 2,15,452 6. Total Household of the Pallavaram Municipality: 75,000 7. No of Wards: 42 8. Total Solid waste generation: 104 T/day ( Biodegradable waste - 52T/day & Non
 Biodegradable Waste - 52 T/day) 9. Total Sewage generation: 9 MLD

 It is submitted that the said complaints regarding the Sewage reaching the
 Putheri Lake had arisen due to the fact that during the Monsoon of 2019, there was huge
 inflow of rain water along with sewage into Underground Sewage system (UGSS) of the
 Pallavapuram Municipality and the same was a cause for the overflow of the sewage
 mixed with Rain water from the pumping lines, lifting stations and the pumping stations
 in a few places. Particularly in the Lifting station in Aishwarya Nagar there was overflow of the
 water that accumulated in the collection well. As there was a power failure at the time of
 the excessive rain the overflow of the sewage and flood waters had occurred. Due to this
 the water mixed with sewage had drained into the Putheri Lake through the natural
 channels in the area. The said overflow was the reason for the sewage mixed with rain water to reach
 the Putheri Lake. The defect in the capacity of the lifting station was identified. In order to
 rectify the same, the capacity of the said Lifting station was improved by increasing the
 power of the Pumps installed in the Lifting station. In addition, a new Power Generator
 has been placed in the Lifting station at times of power failure. In this regard the two 5HP motors were replaced with two 10 HP motors and the
 allied pumps. This essentially increases the capacity of the Lifting station to more than
 double its capacity and the said overflow has been now completely addressed. Moreover,
 the provision of Generator will ensure that the Lifting station will function even during
 the times off power failure and during the Stormy weather
 Even during the monsoon season from October 2020 till date, the overflow of the
 same lifting station has not happened and the UGSS is now functioning without any
 overflow or leakages. It is submitted that the overflow that happened in the Monsoon of
 2019 was also due to the fact that the UGSS was completed in 2017-18 in the left out area
 and the same was first heavy monsoon after the completion of the UGSS in the said area. With regard to the maintenance of the Putheri Lake it is submitted that the Lake
 is in two parts namely South and North and it is separated by the Radial Road. The
 Lifting station is on the Southern part of the lake. The work of deepening the lake in order
 to restore its capacity was carried out by Pallavaram Municipality and completed in the
 Month of June 2020, utilizing the CSR Funds through the District Collector,
 Kancheepuram. The work involved is desilting, deepening, formation of Bund, footpath
 around its periphery at an estimate cost of Rs.30 Lakhs. With regard to the Northern part
 the same is deepened with the assistance of an NGO by name Pasumai Sei and the lake
 has been restored to its full capacity. Further on 30-12-2020 it as noticed that few loads of solid waste had been
 dumped on the northern part of the Putheri Lake on the night of 29-12-2020. Immediate
 action was taken and the same was also removed using the machinery. Action will be taken by the Pallavaram Municipality for removal of hyacinth in
 the Putheri Lake. SEWAGE GENERATION AND DISPOSAL ARRANGEMENTS: 15. The matter was again taken up on 02.06.2021, directing the officials and
 committee to tile the report. On 29.06.2021, this Tribunal had
 considered the report submitted by the Pallavaram Municipality dated
 02.06.2021, e-filed on 07.06.2021, wherein they have mentioned that the
 complaint mentioned in the newspaper report dated 03.03.2020 was
 addressed and the pumping/lifting station had been upgraded already
 and the provision of generator provided ensured that the lifting station
 would function even during the time off power failure during the
 Stormy weather. The UGSS system has been functioning without any
 overflow or leakage. They have taken steps for deepening lake
 involving desilting, formation of bunds etc. 16. Since the Joint Committee has not filed the further report and they were
 directed to file the report. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board
 was also directed to file their independent report and thereafter, the
 matter was either adjourned by notification or at the request of the
 parties. 17. The matter was again taken up on 24.11.2021 and on that day, this
 Tribunal had considered the report submitted by the Tamil Nadu
 Pollution Control Board/6th respondent dated 31.08.2021, e-filed on
 11.09.2021 and extracted in Para (4) of the order wherein, they had
 given the compliance report on the recommendations made by the Joint
 Committee as follows:- Apart from this there were encroachments in the Putheri Lake which
 had reduced its extent and storing capacity as well. 24. The case was originally registered as Suo Motu case on the basis of the
 newspaper report dated 03.03.2020. Subsequently also there were lot of
 such reports appeared in the newspaper stating that there was utter
 negligence on the part of the authorities in protecting this water body.
 It was mentioned in one of the newspaper report that there were
 encroachment in the water body in Pallavaram area and though steps Page 23 of 32 have been taken for identification of the encroachments, but quite
 unfortunately, no further steps were taken for removal of the same. 25. It was also mentioned in the newspaper report that large scale dumping
 of waste was also happening in Putheri Lake which was earlier
 attempted to be rejuvenated by making some arrangement. It was in
 away admitted in the counter affidavit filed by the 8th respondent also
 that there was over flow of sewage from the pumping lines, lifting
 stations and pumping stations in few places which mixed with the
 rainwater and resulted in the situation. They have provided some
 methods to improve the system and on account of the same, the
 grievance in that locality has been redressed. The fact of pumping of
 sewage in to the water body was in away admitted by the Public Works
 Department as well as Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
 Sewerage Board. But nothing was mentioned about the encroachment
 and removal of encroachment. 26. The Joint Committee also in their observation and recommendation
 mentioned that the Putheri Lake was divided by the Radial Road into
 two parts namely, Southern and Northern Part. It was also mentioned
 in the observation that accumulation of non-biodegradable waste was
 noticed in the Ganapathipuram transfer station to the tune of 150
 tonnes which was removed by virtue of the directions given by this
 Tribunal in O.A. No. 191 of 2020(SZ). It was also mentioned in the
 report that on 30.12.2020, some amount of solid waste dumped on the
 northern part of the Puthei lake was noted and the Pallavaram
 Municipality had taken action to remove the same but nothing was
 mentioned about the encroachment. 27. The report of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board also showed that
 certain recommendations were not complied with and they also issued
 certain directions in this regard. Subsequently latest report submitted
 by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board also
 showed that Pallavaram Municipality will not come under their
 jurisdiction and Pallavaram Municipality has a plan to implement the Page 24 of 32 Underground Sewage scheme in that area under question in this case.
 The Pallavaram Municipality has been merged with Tambaram
 Municipal Corporation and the Tambaram Municipal Corporation has
 not filed any independent report regarding the steps taken by them to
 remedy the situation. 28. It is well settled law that there is a duty cast on the State to protect
 environment which includes protection of water bodies as mandated
 under Article 48 (A) of the Constitution of India. Providing clean
 environment which is part of 'Right to Life' as enshrined under Article
 21 of the Constitution of India including providing clean air and water
 which is also the primary responsibility of the State to provide to its
 subjects and that will have to be implemented through its
 instrumentalities including local bodies. As regards the Pallavarm
 Municipality which is now part of Tambaram Municipal Corporation, it
 is not the only case raising such issue but there are other cases some of
 which were also disposed of by this Tribunal and various directions
 had been issued by this Tribunal to be carried out by the erstwhile
 Pallavaram Municipality now part of Tambaram Municipal
 Corporation and the implementations of those directions were also to
 be monitored by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and Chief
 Secretary. 29. It is also time and again reiterated by this Tribunal that it is not possible
 for the Tribunal to monitor the discharge of duties of the regulators
 perpetually and it is for them to rise to the occasion and to take
 proactive role in protecting the environment by providing necessary
 awareness programmes to the people in that area and implement the
 Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and Other Waste Management
 Rules, 2016 and to take steps to provide Underground Sewage Scheme
 to collect the sewage generated in that area and it must be taken to the
 authorised treatment facility and after treating the same, treated water
 has to be used for allied purposes, so that use of so much quantity of
 fresh water can be avoided and that much quantity of fresh water can
 be saved. 30. In UN conventions on environment also, the necessity for rejuvenating
 the water bodies and ecosystem was insisted and being a signatory to
 those conventions, India has got the responsibility to implement those
 covenants /resolution passed in such convention. The State
 Government is having a responsibility to implement these covenants
 within their jurisdiction as well. 31. Under such circumstances, we feel that the application can be disposed
 of with following directions:- 32. The points are answered accordingly. 33. In the result, the Original Application is disposed of with the
 following directions:- 34. With the above observations and directions, the Original Application is

 disposed of. Sd/- Justice K. Ramakrishnan, J.M.

 Sd/- Dr. Satyagopal Korlapati, E.M. O.A. No. 55 of 2020(SZ) 18th July 2022. Sr. Page 32 of 32