(Preventive), New Delhi
Office of the Principal Commissioner of Customs
Customs Preventive,
New Customs House,
New Delhi - 110037. Appearance

Shri Gaurav Prakash, Advocate - for the Appellant.

Shri Rakesh Kumar, Authorized Representative - for the
Respondent. CORAM : 1,84,16,505.68 under Section 111(d) of the Customs Act 1962 3

which were seized from the possession of the appellant. He also

confiscated absolutely an amount of Rs. 5,45,000/- seized from

1 appellant
2 Impugned order
3 the Act 2 C/52094/2018

Shri Ahadees K. under Section 121 . He also confiscated the

packaging materials of no commercial value in which the gold and

the currency were concealed under Section 118 read with Section 119. He also confiscated the Mercedes car bearing registration No.

DL ICQ 7525 seized from the appellant under Section 115(2) which

was registered in the name of M/s PRK Diamonds Pvt. Ltd and

allowed it redemption on payment of a fine of Rs.10,00,000/-.

Penalty of Rs. 50,00,000/- was imposed on the appellant under Section 112(b) (i) and a penalty of Rs.15,00,000/- on Shri Ahadees

under Section 112(a)(i) . 2. The facts of the case are that the Directorate of Revenue

Intelligence4 received intelligence that a person aged about 26/27

years and around 5‟5" tall will be carrying smuggled gold bars of

foreign origin and would hand them over in a white Mercedes car

bearing registration No. DL ICQ 7525 near Gate No. 3 of Rajeev

Chowk Metro Station on 07.12.2015 around 16.00 hours. Officers

kept surveillance in the area and at around 16.15 hours, a person

of the description carrying a slinging black bag entered the car and

handed over the black bag to another person sitting in the front

passenger seat. The other person handed over a pink polythene

bag in return. At this stage, DRI officers knocked at the front door

of the car by showing their identity cards and asked them to open

the doors. Instead, the car tried to speed away but failed due to

heavy traffic. Officers took control of the car and the occupants

and brought them to the parking space to DRI office. At 17.30

hours, they called two independent witnesses and conducted a

search and drew a panchnama. Sitting in the front passenger

seat, the appellant introduced himself as Sunny Kakkar (the

4 DRI 3 C/52094/2018

appellant). The second person introduced himself as Ahadees K

and the third person introduced himself as Rajesh Kumar Goswami - the driver of the car. In the presence of the witnesses, the three

persons and the car were searched thoroughly. The black bag and

the pink colour polythene bag were recovered from the car. The

black bag contained 8 yellow metal gold bars and the pink colour

polythene bag contained Indian currency. Personal search of the

appellant resulted in recovery of three Apple i-phones one vertu

mobile phone and one Micromax mobile phone with different sim

cards and a wallet with Rs. 9,000/- in it and some credit cards. 3. Personal search of Shri Ahadees resulted in recovery of his

wallet containing Rs. 465/-, a driving licence and a card and one

HTC 826 mobile phone. Search of the driver Shri Rajesh Kumar

Goswami did not result in any recovery. 4. Searches of the car resulted in recovery of registration papers

of the car in favour of M/s PRK Diamonds Pvt. Ltd., Karol Bagh,

insurance policy paper, driving licence of the appellant and PAN

card of M/s PRK Diamonds Pvt. Ltd. 5. An expert Jewellery Appraiser was called who examined the

yellow metal bars in the bag. These were packed in a polythene

bag marked "BIS Jeweller LLC PO Box 81644, Office Number 21,

2nd floor, Opposite City Hotel, Gold Souk, Deira, Dubai - UAE".

The 8 yellow metal bars with the markings "DIJLLAH GOLD UAE1

KILO GOLD 995.0" with serial numbers A 032796, A 032797, A

032812, A 032796, A 032797, A 032922, A 032929, A 032931 and

A 032928. The expert Appraiser assessed the material as foreign

origin gold of 995 purity totalling weighing 8 kg. 4 C/52094/2018 7. The Indian currency notes in the pink polythene packed were

Rs. 500x1090 pieces = Rs. 5,45,000/-. 8. Neither the appellant nor Shri Ahadees produced any

document in support of the licit import and possession of the gold

bars. The appellant explained that Shri Ahadees gave him the gold

in the black bag and he had, in return, handed over the currency in

the pink polythene bag. Under the belief that the car, the gold and

the cash were liable for confiscation, they were seized. Statements

of the appellant, Shri Ahadees and the driver Shri Goswami were

recorded. 9. In his statement dated 8.12.2015 the appellant said that he

had joined his father‟s business in gold jewellery in the year 1997

and that he opened a company in the name of M/s PRK Diamonds

Pvt. Ltd., Karol Bagh which would purchase diamonds in wholesale

and sell to different retailers. In November 2015, one Shri

Mushtaq, suggested to him to start business of smuggled gold and

introduced him to one Shri Harish of Dubai and gave his mobile

number. Shri Harish called him from Dubai and told him that he

would send gold through his man and after selling it in the market

the appellant should hand over the sale proceeds to him. Earlier,

on 1.12.2015 and 5.12.2015 Shri Harish had sent him 8 kg. gold

each time. At the time of receiving gold he would pay some

amount to the person who handed over the goods and he would

pay the rest after selling the gold. 10. Further, on 7.12.2015 he received a call from Shri Harish who

told him that Shri Ahadees would be contacting him on 7.12.2015

and hand over and another 8 kg gold and accordingly, he waited in

the car along with his driver. Shri Ahadees gave him the gold and 5 C/52094/2018

he, in turn, gave some amount in the plastic bag after which they

were intercepted by officers of DRI. 11. When DRI offices knocked on the door of the car, they tried

to speed away but failed and were brought to DRI office where the

Panchnama was drawn. 12. In his statement dated 8.12.2015 Shri Ahadees said that he

knew Shri Harris of Dubai who called him from Dubai in the last

week of November 2015 and offered Rs. 20,000/- per consignment

in his business of smuggling foreign origin gold. Thereafter, on

5.12.2015 he got a call from Shri Harris, received a bag from a

person sent by Shri Harris and handed it over to Shri Sunny Kakkar

in his Mercedes car near the gate of BLK Hospital, Pusa Road and

received Rs. 5 lakhs from Shri Sunny Kakkar. Again, he received a

call from Shri Harris who told him to collect a packet containing 8

kg gold from his man and hand it over to Shri Sunny Kakkar.

Accordingly, it was decided to meet on 7.12.2015 at 4.00 P.M. near

exit gate No. 3 of Rajeev Chowk Metro Station. He handed the

packet with 8 kg gold to Shri Sunny Kakkar and received a pink bag

containing Rs. 5,45,000/- when DRI officers intercepted and

brought them to the parking space of DRI office where the

Panchnama was drawn. He went through the statement which Shri

Sunny Kakkar given on 8.12.2015 and confirmed the contents with

respect to his role on the smuggled gold. 13. On 12.5.2016 another statement was recorded in which Shri

Ahadees confirmed that Shri Harris referred to by him is the same

one as referred to by Shri Sunny Kakkar as Shri Harish who is an

Indian who has been staying in Dubai for the last 15 years. He met

Shri Harris through Mustaq whose Mobile No. 9560790231 is 6 C/52094/2018

actually registered in the name of one Shri Jibin who used to reside

with him in Chattarpur, New Delhi but he is using the Sim card

from October 2015 and he provided this number to Shri Sunny

Kakkar who advised him to contact him only on mobile No.

7289970347 although he had another number. 14. Shri Rajesh Kumar Goswami, driver gave his voluntary

statement on 8.12.2015 confirming the incidents which happened

on 7.12.2015 which resulted in seizure under the Panchnama. 15. Officers of DRI obtained the call details of the recovered

numbers and found that Vodafone connection 7289970347 which

was recovered from Shri Sunny Kakkar and which was being used

for communication with Shri Ahadees for smuggling operations was

registered in the name of one Shri Beisenbek Kaskyrbayev a

Kazakhstani national but no such person was found at the given

address. Enquiry with the Foreigners Regional Registration

Officer, New Delhi showed that Shri Beisenbek left India on

21.4.2015 and was not in India when the connection was obtained

in his name. Call details obtained from the telecom operator

showed that there were calls between this number of Shri Sunny

Kakkar and the number of Ahadees on 1.12.2015, 5.12.2015 and

7.12.2015 - the three days on which they had carried smuggled

gold as per their statements. The present case pertains only to the

gold seized on 7.12.2015. Based on these investigations it

appeared that the 8 kg gold seized on 7.12.2015 was of foreign

origin, smuggled into India and gold is not freely importable. It

also appeared that as per Section 123 of the Customs Act the

burden of proving that the gold was not smuggled rested on the

person from who it was seized. C/52094/2018 16. The show cause notice was issued to the appellant on

2.6.2016 by the DRI calling upon the appellant to explain as to why

the 8 kg gold bars seized from him should not be confiscated

under Section 111(b) and Section 111(d) and the Mercedes car

registered in the name of M/s PRK Diamonds Pvt. Ltd. should not

be confiscated under Section 115 and penalty should not be

imposed under Section 112 . A show cause notice also called upon

Shri Ahadees to explain why the seized Indian currency of

Rs.5,45,000/- being the sale proceeds of smuggled gold should not

be confiscated under Section 121 along with pink polythene bag of

no commercial value why penalty should not be imposed under Section 112 . 17. The appellant filed an interim reply on 4.2.2017 denying the

allegations made in the show cause notice. He asserted that the

gold was legally imported into the country on payment of duty as

per the information provided to him by Shri Ahadees and,

therefore, the same was not liable for confiscation. He also

contested the proposal to impose penalty. He further submitted

that the car must be released unconditionally as per Section 110 read with Section 124 because M/s PRK Diamond Pvt. Ltd., in

whose name the car is registered, was not issued a show cause

notice. On 24.5.2017 he submitted another reply again asserting

that he bought legally imported gold for sale from Shri Ahadees

and that DRI officers forcibly extracted statement from him. He

further asserted that as per the show cause notice smuggling of 8

kg gold also took place on two earlier occasions but DRI had not

carried out any investigation into those cases of smuggling. 18. He also asserted that the gold bars belonged to him and it

was incumbent upon Shri Ahadees to provide the documents 8 C/52094/2018

pertaining to the legal import of the gold bars given to him. He

again asserted that the car must be leased unconditionally. 19. Shri Ahadees, in reply dated 27.10.2017 submitted that some

secret information said to have been received by DRI cannot be

accepted as gospel truth and despite specific information and DRI

failed to draw panchanama at the place of interception. The

statement recorded under Section 108 cannot be infer guilty

beyond reasonable doubt of the appellant. He also argued that the

currency of Rs.5,45,000/- is not commensurate with the gold

recovered from Shri Sunny Kakkar hence cannot be said to be the

sale proceeds of the recovered gold. He submitted that he was

successfully running the business of consultancy in aviation and the

currency recovered from him is not exhorbitant in his business. 20. Personal hearing was fixed for several dates. The

adjudicating authority changed and the new adjudicating authority

(who passed the impugned order) fixed personal hearing on

27.9.2017 but neither the appellant nor Shri Ahadees appeared. A

second personal hearing was fixed on 10.10.2017 during which

Shri Ashutosh, Advocate appeared on behalf of the appellant and

sought cross-examination of Shri Ahadees. Shri Nitin Johsi,

Advocate appeared on behalf of Shri Ahadees and said that his

client could not appear on that date and sought an adjournment.

Third personal hearing was fixed on 24.10.2017 but again nobody

appeared on behalf of Shri Ahadees. Fourth personal hearing cum

cross examination before the adjudicating authority was fixed on

9.11.2017 and Shri Ashutosh, Advocate of the appellant appeared

and cross examined Shri Ahadees record of the cross examination

is as follows; C/52094/2018

Q.1 Are you permanent resident of Kerala? What is your age and

qualification? Ans: Yes, I am 28 years old and graduate in BCA from Bangalore.

Q.2. Are you married? Do you have any children?

Ans: Yes and I am having one son aged about two years.

Q.3. How many times you have been to Dubai? Ans: I have been twice to Dubai and after this case and before

that I have never been abroad. Q.4. How did you arrive at the place of your interception?

Ans: I came by a taxi. Q.5. I put to you that the gold handed over by you to Shri Sunny

Kakkar was told to be duty paid gold? Ans. No, I did not know that what were the contents in the bag

handed over by me to Shri Sunny Kakkar. Q.6. Was the bag open or locked? Ans. It was open. Q.7. Did you ask the person who gave you the bag as to what it

contained? Ans. No I did not ask. The person is from my native place and he

asked me to hand over the bag to Shri Sunny Kakkar.

Q.8. Can you tell the name and address of that person who

handed over the bag to you? Ans. I do not know the person‟s name and address who handed

over the bag. C/52094/2018

Q.9. Did you know Sunny Kakkar earlier also before the alleged

incident? Ans. Yes I had handed over packets to him earlier on twice

occasions. Q.10. Do you have any altercation with Shri Sunny Kakkar?

Ans. No

Q.11. I put it over to you that what you have stated above in

respect of the packet is wrong and that with a view to run away

from your liability, if any, you are making wrong statements and

passing on the same to Shri Sunny Kakkar? Ans. No, whatever I stated is true and correct.

Q.12. Is it correct that the bag from which gold was recovered was

in your possession before intercepted by DRI?

Ans. Yes the bag was in my possession and it was handed over to

Shri Sunny Kakkar before the DRI intercepted us. 21. Thereafter, the impugned order was passed. 22. Learned counsel for the appellant, at the outset, submitted

that the entire recovery of the gold itself is doubtful because

allegedly the transaction took place in a car at Rajeev Chowk Metro

Station but the panchnama was drawn in the parking lot of DRI

office. On a specific query from the bench if the appellant was

contesting the recovery of the gold itself, learned counsel affirmed

it. However, the prayer of the appellant in the appeal itself shows

that the appellant is seeking the gold recovered from his possession

to be released to him unconditionally. He further prayed that the

vehicle recovered from his possession also should be released to 11 C/52094/2018

him unconditionally. We, therefore, find no basis for the appellant

to challenge the recovery of the gold when the entire prayer in this

appeal itself states that the gold and the car were recovered from

him. We also note that in the reply to the show cause notice before

the adjudicating authority also the appellant never contested the

recovery of the gold but only were legally imported into India. 23. The following other submissions were made by the learned

counsel for the appellant : (iii) There was a procedural lapse on the part of the proper

 officer by not passing order under Section 110 of the

 Customs Act and, therefore, the subsequent 12 C/52094/2018

 proceedings are void ab initio. The seizure under Section 110 is a condition precedent to issuing the

 show cause notice. (iv) The case has been made out only on the basis of

 statements and, therefore, cannot be sustained. (v) There is no investigation by the DRI in relation to the

 alleged foreign nature of the gold and the country of

 origin of the gold. (vi) The DRI officers have not examined the foreign

 markings of the gold and there was no test report

 ascertaining the nature of the gold. (vii) No show cause notice was issued to M/s PRK Diamond

 Pvt. Ltd. and, therefore, the seized Mercedes car is

 liable to be released unconditionally. (viii) Section 112 of the Customs Act is not applicable to the

 appellant as the appellant had not done or omitted to

 any act or omission which would render the goods liable

 for confiscation under Section 111 . (ix) The penalty imposed on the appellant is too harsh and

 unreasonable. 24. Learned authorised representative for the Revenue supports

the impugned order and made the following submissions: noticee Shri Ahadees K. to the effect that he supplied gold

 to the Appellant earlier on two occasions also, which he

 has confirmed during cross examination, has demolished

 in entirety the claim of the Appellant that he received the

 gold in good faith and that he was under impression that

 the gold was legally imported and cleared after duty

 payment. (vi) Call Details Record of the Appellant goes to prove that he

 was in constant touch of the co-noticee Shri Ahadees K

 and Shri Harris a.k.a. Harish of Dubai in the past also. This

 indicates that the Appellant was part of the conspiracy

 with intention to commit an offence and had been engaged

 in disposal of the smuggled gold in the market for

 monetary consideration. (vii) As gold is an item covered under Section 123 of the

 Customs Act 1962, the burden to prove that it is not

 smuggled lies on the person from whose possession it is

 seized. In case of failure of discharging such burden by the

 person possessing gold, the gold is liable to be considered 15 C/52094/2018

 as smuggled. Also, possession of foreign origin gold by any

 person or entity without any valid document shall

 tantamount to possession of smuggled gold. (viii) Gold is a restricted item for the purpose of import in as

 much as gold is not allowed to be imported, except by the

 authorized persons or nominated agencies for specified

 purpose. This read with definition of „prohibited goods‟

 under Section 2(33) of the Customs Act 1962 unfailingly

 establishes that import of gold by person other than

 authorized person/nominated agency falls within the

 definition of prohibited goods liable for confiscation under Section 111(d) of the Customs Act 1962. (ix) Conveyance/Vehicle/Carriage used as a means of

 transport in the smuggling of any goods is liable to

 confiscation under Section 115(2) of the Customs Act

 1962 unless the owner of the

 Conveyance/Vehicle/Carriage proves that it was so used

 without the knowledge or connivance of the owner himself,

 his agent, and the person in charge of the

 Conveyance/Vehicle/Carriage. (x) A person in conscious possession and control of smuggled

 goods liable for confiscation becomes liable for penal

 action under Section 112(b) of the Customs Act 1962. 25. We have considered the submissions made by both sides and

perused the records of the case. 26. The questions which need to be answered in this case are: C/52094/2018 (ii) Is the confiscation of Mercedes car under Section 115 and its

redemption on payment of fine of Rs. 10 lakhs correct? (iii) Was the fine of Rs. 50 lakhs correctly imposed on the

appellant under Section 112(b)(i) ? 27. We note that the confiscation of the cash under Section 121 and imposition of fine on Shri Ahadees have not been assailed

before us. 28. The undisputed facts of the case are that the 8 bars of gold

weighing 1 kg each were seized from the possession of the

appellant. The bars were packed in a polythene bag with address

of a jeweller from Dubai. Each of the bars had the markings of the

manufacturer of the gold in Dubai and were serially numbered.

This gold were examined by the officer who determined them to be

gold of 995 purity and of foreign origin. 29. Learned counsel for the appellant‟s first submission was that

since the interception was Rajeev Chowk, Metro Station and the

Panchnama was drawn subsequently in the parking space of DRI

office the seizure itself is doubtful. This submission cannot be

accepted for the simple reason that the appeal itself prays "to

release the impugned gold to the appellant, which was recovered

from his possession unconditionally." It was also the appellant‟s

submission before the adjudicating authority that the gold was

seized from him. Therefore, the appellant cannot now claim on the

one hand, the seizure of the gold was doubtful and on the other

hand claimed the seized gold on the ground that it was claimed the

confiscated gold on the ground that it was seized from him. 30. It is also undisputed that the Mercedes car was seized from

the appellant which the appellant prayed may be released. 17 C/52094/2018 31. The question which now arises is if the seized gold was

correctly confiscated. Section 111 provides for confiscation of the

goods which are improperly imported into country. Clause (b) and (d) of which reads as follows: 32. As per Section 2(39) "smuggling", in relation to any goods,

means any act or omission which will render such goods liable to

confiscation under section 111 or section 113 . Therefore, if the

gold bars in dispute are held liable for confiscation under Section

111 they will fall under the category of smuggled gold as per Section 2(39) . Another important section in this regard is Section

123 which reads as follows: C/52094/2018

 (2) This section shall apply to gold, and manufactures thereof,
 watches, and any other class of goods which the Central
 Government may by notification in the Official Gazette specify. 33. Section 123 shifts the burden of proof from the Department

to the person from whom the goods have been seized in respect to

gold and certain other goods which are notified. Undisputedly, the

bars in question were of gold and they had foreign markings and

were packed in a bag with the address of the jeweller in Dubai.

The bars were examined by an expert and were held to be foreign

origin gold of 995 purity. All these gave the officers reasonable

belief that the gold bars were of foreign origin. Since import of

gold is restricted, if foreign origin gold bars were legally imported it

was incumbent upon the importer and any other person to whom

they may have been sold to show documents that the gold was

legally imported. This responsibility is cast upon the appellant as

per Section 123 . The gold was seized and after its assessment

statements of the appellant were recorded in which he explained

that he procured the gold from one Shri Harish of Dubai who told

him that Shri Ahadees would contact him and give him the gold

bars and accordingly, he was waiting at Rajeev Chowk Metro

Station whether transaction took place. He had, at no point of

time, produced any document to show that the gold was legally

imported. According to his statement, the arrangement which he

had with Shri Harish was that he would send gold through one of

his persons (Shri Ahadees in this case) and after selling the gold he

would pay Shri Harish. At the time of receiving the gold he would

pay only some amount to the person handing over the gold. In

this case, the amount which he paid in a pink polythene bag was

Rs. 5,45,000/- to Shri Ahadees. These statements were

corroborated by the statement of Shri Ahadees. Neither Shri

Ahadees nor the appellant have at any point of time produced any 19 C/52094/2018

document to show that the gold was legally imported by them or

that it was purchased by them from somebody who had legally

imported it. 34. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that on

8.12.2015 the appellant had retracted his statement and,

therefore, it cannot be relied upon. We have gone through the

statements made before the learned CMM by the appellant in his

application for bail which is at page 109 to 112 of the appeal book.

The application only states that the statement was not made by the

appellant. However, there is nothing in the statement made before

the learned CMM explaining the nature of the gold seized from the

appellant. In the absence of any other explanation, the statements

made by the appellant and Shri Ahadees before the officer must be

accepted as correct. These statements corroborate each other and

with the panchnama. The cross-examination of Shri Ahadees by

the learned counsel for the appellant also confirm the facts

pertaining to this seizure and also that on previous two occasions

smuggled gold was transacted between the appellant and Shri

Ahadees. The mobile phone recovered from the appellant and

which was used to communicate with Shri Ahadees was also

obtained in the name of Shri Kaskyrbayev a Kazakhi national who

was not even in India at the time the SIM card was issued which

corroborates the clandestine nature of the transaction in the

confiscated gold. 35. Thus, the seizure of the gold from the possession of the

appellant as recorded in the Panchnama and admitted in the

statement which is also affirmed the appeal before us by the

appellant itself is undisputed. It is also undisputed that it had

foreign markings and has been certified by the jewellery expert to 20 C/52094/2018

be of foreign origin. The only question which remains is if it was

legally imported or smuggled and the burden of proving that it was

legally imported rests upon the appellant. There is not even an

assertion in the application before the learned CMM by the

appellant that he had legally imported the gold. Therefore, we find

no force in the submission of the appellant that his statement

under Section 108 cannot be relied upon. 35. The other submission made by the learned counsel for the

appellant is that nature of the gold is that he had requested Shri

Ahadees to supply legally imported gold and, therefore, it should

be considered so. This submission cannot be accepted for the

reason for the simple reason that there was no documents at the

time of seizure to show that the gold was legally imported. No

documents have been produced till date to show that the gold was

legally imported. The circumstances under which the transaction

took place in a car without any bills at the gate of the Metro Station

further buttress the view that the gold was not legally imported. In

view of the above, we find that the undisputed gold is of a foreign

origin and was reasonably believed to be smuggled by the officers

and was seized and the appellant had not discharged his burden to

show that it was not smuggled gold. Therefore, the absolute

confiscation of the disputed gold needs to be upheld. 36. As far as the Mercedes car is concerned, it is undisputed that

the transaction took place in the car at Rajeev Chowk, Metro

Station and when the officers tried to stop it the appellant asked

his driver to speed away but failed. The car and the gold were

brought to the office of DRI by the Panchnama was dropped in the

parking lot. The Mercedes car was seized from the appellant

himself. He is also the Director of the company M/s PRK Diamond 21 C/52094/2018

Pvt. Ltd. It is undisputed that this company is owned by the

appellant and his wife. It has been argued by the learned counsel

for the appellant that the owner of the car M/s PRK Diamond Pvt.

Ltd. has not been served with a notice and, therefore, the

confiscation is not legal. On a specific query from the Bench,

learned counsel fairly submits that M/s PRK Diamond Pvt. Ltd. is

the company owned by the appellant and his wife although it is a

separate legal entity. We find that there is no appeal by M/s PRK

Diamond Pvt. Ltd. pleading that the car to be released to it. On

the other hand, the appellant himself has prayed for the release of

the car to him. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that as

the Director of company and also as the person from whom the car

was seized the appellant was entitled to seek release of the car. In

other words, the learned counsel for the appellant agrees that the

appellant represents the company M/s PRK Diamond Pvt. Ltd.

Since the show cause notice was issued to the appellant proposing

confiscation of the car, we find no force in the argument that notice

should have been issued to M/s PRK Diamond Pvt. Ltd. It is not

open to the appellant to represent M/s PRK Diamond Pvt. Ltd. to

seek release of the car but claim that he does not represent M/s

PRK Diamond Pvt. Ltd. when it comes to receiving show cause

notice and answering it. The car was allowed redemption on

payment of fine of Rs. 10 lakhs. We are of considered opinion that

this is a reasonable amount of redemption fine imposed, if the

appellant chooses to redeem the car. 37. The last question to be answered is regarding the penalty

under Section 112(b)(i) of Rs. 50 lakhs imposed upon the

appellant. We find that as per Section 112(b) any person who

acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying, 22 C/52094/2018

removing, depositing, harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or

purchasing, or in any other manner dealing with any goods which

he knows or has reason to believe are liable to confiscation under section 111 is liable to penalty. In case of prohibited goods this

penalty shall not exceed the value of the goods or Rs. 5000/-

whichever is greater. In this case, it is undisputed that the

appellant was in possession of the confiscated gold. Even in the

appeal before us, the appellant is not disputing this fact.

Therefore, he is squarely covered by Section 112(b)(i) . The value

of the confiscated gold is Rs. 1,84,16,505.68. The penalty imposed

is only Rs. 50 lakhs. In the factual matrix of this case, we find

that this amount of penalty is reasonable and calls for no

interference. 38. In view of the above, we uphold the impugned order and

dismiss the appeal. (Pronounced in open Court on 06.02.2023)

 (Justice Dilip Gupta)
 President

 (P.V. Subba Rao)
 Member (Technical)
RM