1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide the present suit under S.
 134 & 135 of Trademarks Act, 1999, Sec. 55 of the
 Copyright Act, 1957 for permanent injunction restraining
 infringement, passing off, delivery up and rendition of
 accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the defendants. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially, the
 present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before the
 concerned Court of Ld. Additional District Judge, Patiala
 House Courts, New Delhi. During the course of trial, the
 case was received by this Court by way of transfer, on 01-
 10-2022 in view of Order No.17016-17031/Judl./ NDD/
 PHC/2022 dated 05-7-2022 of the then Ld. Principal
 District & Sessions Judge, New Delhi District, PHC and
 consequent upon the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case titled as 'Vishal Pipes Limited v. Bhavya
 Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD No.1/2022 & CM APPLs No.
 12-14/2022 dated 03-6-2022. 3. It may be noted that initially, the suit was filed against the TM/184/2021 Page 2 of 27 -3- defendant, who was arrayed as 'Ashok Kumar' on the
 basis of 'John Doe' principle as applicable in India. It
 appears that subsequent to execution of local commission,
 an application u/s 151 CPC along with amended memo of
 parties seeking substitution of John Doe (Ashok Kumar)/
 defendant was moved on behalf of the plaintiff, which was
 allowed, vide order dated 13-12-2021 and consequently,
 Ashok Kumar (John Doe) /defendant was deleted and
 Sh. Budhram, Sh. Dharam Prakash and Sh. Narendra Nath
 Chopra were substituted and impleaded as defendant nos.
 1, 2 and 3 respectively,
BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 4. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, is that the
 plaintiff, which is stated to be a company duly registered
 under the laws of California, United States of America
 (USA) having its registered office at State of California,
 USA, got instituted the present suit through constituted
 attorney namely Ms. Meena Bansal, who is duly
 authorized by the plaintiff company to institute, sign,
 verify and pursue the present suit. It is claimed that the
 plaintiff company is engaged in the business of
 manufacturing and marketing of clothing of all kinds,
 readymade garments and leisure shoes, Spectacles Glasses,
 Sunglasses, Bags and other accessories under the trade

 marks/ label (hereinafter referred to as the 'said
 goods and business'). 5. The plaintiff company has also claimed that it operates in
 more than 110 countries worldwide and ventured into TM/184/2021 Page 3 of 27 -4- youth segment in India in 1994 by launching its products

 under the iconic brand name . Since then, the
 plaintiff company has built a strong retail and distribution
 network across India. The plaintiff company has claimed

 itself to be owner of trade mark/ label and

 (Housemark), Miscelleneous Design [Batwing#1]
 'Two Horse Logo' and Miscelleneous Design [Batwing#2]
 and 'Arcuate Stitching Design'. The plaintiff company has
 also claimed that the said trademarks besides other trade
 marks of the plaintiff company, are registered under the
 provisions of Trade Mark Act, 1999 , which are stated to be
 valid and subsisting till date and the details thereof have
 been mentioned in Para no.7 of the plaint. Further, the
 plaintiff company has also claimed that the artwork
 involved in plaintiff's various trademarks viz. 'Levis' and
 (Housemark)/'Two Horse Logo' stylized, formative/
 bearing and labels are original artistic works and the
 plaintiff holds copyright therein. 6. It is further the case of the plaintiff that on account of
 its good quality and standards of manufacturing and
 untiring efforts in advertising and marketing, the products
 of the plaintiff have acquired unique distinction and
 enviable reputation and goodwill across the world
 including India. 7. Further, it is the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff spent
 approx. $400 millions on marketing its goods under the
 said trade marks/ label in the year 2019 alone, which forms TM/184/2021 Page 4 of 27 -5- 6.9% net revenues. Thus, it is claimed that the Plaintiff
 spend huge amount of money in advertising and promotion
 of its products under the said trade marks/ logos in India
 and around the world, due to which the products of
 plaintiff under the said trade marks/ logos enjoy huge
 goodwill and reputation in business community and public
 in general in India and across the world. The Plaintiff
 Company has a huge turnover against sale of its products
 worldwide and it is claimed that net sales revenue is
 approx. $5.8 Billions for the financial year 2019 with a
 prospective growth rate at 30%. Hence, it is claimed that
 on account of tremendous promotion and publicity as well
 as the large volumes of sales, the members of public and
 trade and industry associates the said trade marks/ labels
 with the plaintiff company alone. 8. Therefore, it is claimed that in view of the Plaintiff's
 proprietary rights both under statutory and common law in
 its said trademarks, its goodwill & reputation, and its
 copyrights, the Plaintiff has the exclusive right to the use
 thereof and nobody can be permitted to use the same or
 any other deceptively similar trademark/label in any
 manner whatsoever in relation to any specification of
 goods without the leave and license of the Plaintiff. 9. The plaintiff has alleged that in the last week of October,
 2021, the plaintiff has been informed through its material
 investigative resources that the representatives/ concerned
 persons of the defendants have started manufacturing,
 marketing, soliciting, displaying, offering for sale and TM/184/2021 Page 5 of 27 -6- selling the impugned goods under the impugned trade
 marks/ label in the market of New Delhi area viz.
 Connaught Place, Gole Market, Bengali Market,
 Chankyapuri, Mandir Marg and adjoining areas in
 clandestine and surreptitious manner and that too without
 issuing formal bills/ invoices. 10. It is also alleged that the defendants are engaged in large
 scale business of manufacturing, marketing, soliciting,
 selling, displaying and trading of 'jeans, t-shirt, apparel
 and other allied /related products' (hereinafter referred to
 as 'impugned goods and business'). 11. Further, it is alleged that defendants have dishonestly and

 malafidely adopted impugned trademarks/ label ,
 Levi's with/without 'Two Horse Logo' and/or House

 Mark, and / or combination of House Mark
 alongwith 'Two Horse Logo' which are visually,
 structurally identical and/or deceptively and confusingly
 similar to the registered trademarks/ labels of the plaintiff

 , Levi's with/without 'Two Horse Logo' and/or

 House Mark, and / or combination of House Mark
 alongwith 'Two Horse Logo', thereby causing confusion
 and deception amongst the unwary purchasing public and
 traders by making them believe that the origin of those
 goods is the plaintiff company. It is also the case of the
 plaintiff that in fact the defendants are indulging in
 counterfeiting the impugned goods, which is in complete TM/184/2021 Page 6 of 27 -7- violation of plaintiff's statutory and common law right in
 the said trademark/ trade name. It has been averred that by
 doing so, the defendants are not only damaging the
 reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff company by
 passing off their substandard products as that of the
 plaintiff company but are also causing financial loss to the
 plaintiff company by reaping unfair advantage of the
 repute and distinctive character of the trademarks of the
 plaintiff company. 12. On these grounds, the plaintiff has filed the present
 suit against the defendants praying therein, inter alia,
 that decree of permanent injunction may be passed
 restraining the defendants by itself/themselves as also
 through their individual proprietors/ partners, agents,
 representatives, distributors, assigns, heirs,
 successors, stockists and all others acting for and on
 their behalf from manufacturing, marketing, using,
 selling, soliciting, importing, exporting, displaying,
 distributing, advertising or in any manner dealing in
 or soliciting or selling/ soliciting through online
 platforms or online websites or using the impugned
 trade mark/ label LEVI's, Levi's with/without 'Two

 Horse Logo' and/or House Mark or any other
 word mark/ trade marks/ label which may be identical
 with and/ or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's said
 trade marks / label LEVI's, Levi's with/without 'Two

 Horse Logo' and/or House Mark in relation to
 similar goods, thereby infringing plaintiff's registered TM/184/2021 Page 7 of 27 -8- trademarks, copyright and passing off their products
 as that of the plaintiff. 13. The suit was accompanied with applications - one under
 Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 CPC and another under Order
 XXVI Rule 9 CPC seeking ex parte ad interim injunction
 and appointment of local commissioner respectively. After
 hearing the counsel of plaintiff, the said applications were
 allowed, vide common order dated 01-11-2021 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of the Court, thereby granting an ex parte
 ad interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff and Local
 Commissioner was also appointed to visit and search the
 premises of the defendant with certain conditions. Vide
 same order, summons of the suit were also directed to be
 issued to the defendant for 13-12-2021. 14. In the meantime, after execution of local commission, the
 plaintiff had moved an application under S. 151 CPC for
 substituting defendants along with amended memo of
 parties, which was allowed vide order dated 13-12-2021
 and summons were directed to be issued to the defendant
 no.2 as per Amended Memo of Parties for the next date.
 Defendant nos. 1 and 3 put their appearance through
 counsel and on joint request, the matter was referred to
 Mediation Centre for settlement, however, same could not
 be settled as per report of Mediation Centre. 15. At this juncture, it may be noted that the present case was
 received by this Court on 01-10-2022, as already noted
 above in Para no.2, and an application under TM/184/2021 Page 8 of 27 -9- Order VI Rule 17 CPC was moved on behalf of the
 plaintiff seeking amendment of the suit, thereby enhancing
 specified value to be above Rs.3 lacs, so as to bring the
 present suit within the ambit of the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 , in view of the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in case of Vishal Pipes Limited (supra). The notice
 of the said application was directed to be issued to
 defendant no.2 as the defendant no.2 was still not served
 with the summons of the suit. Since, the defendant no.2
 could not be served through ordinary manner, he was
 directed to be served by way of publication in newspapers
 (1) Veer Arjun (Hindi edition) and (2) the Statesman
 (English edition) in terms of order dated 12-4-2023 passed
 by Ld. Predecessor of this Court while allowing
 application under Order V Rule 20 CPC moved by plaintiff
 for substituted mode of service upon defendant no.2.
 Despite being served by way of publication in said
 newspapers, none appeared on behalf of defendant no.2
 and therefore, he was proceeded against ex parte, vide
 order dated 30-5-2023, passed by Ld. Predecessor of this
 Court. Further, vide same order, the defendant nos. 1 and 3
 were also proceeded against ex parte as none was
 appearing on their behalf for the last so many dates. The
 aforesaid application seeking amendment of plaint was
 also allowed vide same order. 16. In view of above, the position as emerges on record is
 that no written statement either to the original plaint or
 even to the amended plaint, is filed by either of TM/184/2021 Page 9 of 27 -10- the defendants. 17. It may be noted that the application under Order XXXIX
 Rules 1 & 2 CPC seeking ad interim injunction was
 disposed off while making the ex parte interim order dated
 01-11-2021 absolute till the pendency of the present suit,
 vide order dated 22-08-2023, passed by Ld. Predecessor of
 this Court. 18. It may be noted that an application u/s 151 CPC was
 moved by plaintiff to bring on record Affidavit under
 Order XI Rule 6 (3) CPC , as applicable to The
 Commercial Courts Act, 2015 regarding electronic
 records, which was allowed and said affidavit was directed
 to be taken on record, vide order dated 04-4-2024 passed
 by this Court. 19. In support of its case, the plaintiff company has examined
 only one witness i.e. its AR namely Mrs. Meena Bansal as
 PW1. She led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit
 [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint
 and relied on the following documents:- 1. Representation of plaintiff's various Ex. PW1/1
 Trademark/labels. (Colly) 2. Representation of the plaintiff's product Ex. PW1/2
 with plaintiff's trademark/lables. (Colly) 3. Representation of defendant's impugned Ex. PW1/3
 mark/label along with the photographs of (Colly) TM/184/2021 Page 10 of 27 -11- Srl. Document/Particulars Exhibit(s)
 No

 the product. 4. Comparison chart of plaintiff said Ex. PW1/4
 mark/label and defendant's impugned (Colly)
 mark/lable alongwith the product. 5. Registration Certificates, Status and Ex. PW1/5
 publication in Trade Marks Journal of (Colly)
 the plaintiff's registered Trademark nos. 7. Screen shots of various worldwide Ex. PW1/7
 trademarks/label of the plaintiff from the
 website of WIPO. 8. Financial Statements of the year 2020 of Ex. PW1/8
 the plaintiff. (Colly) 9. Advertisement and promotional Ex. PW1/9
 materials and related documents of the (Colly)
 plaintiff. 10. Analysis-cum-authentication report with Ex.PW1/10
 respect to counterfeit impugned product
 of the defendant's by the AR of plaintiff. 11. Documents depicting exclusive stores of Ex.PW1/11
 the plaintiff within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court. 12. Screenshot of plaintiff's brand available Ex.PW1/12
 at www.levi.in, as well as on other (Colly)
 websites i.e.,www.amazon.in,
 www.flipkart.com, etc. 13. Copy of Power of Attorney (POA) Ex.PW1/13
 executed in favour of Constituted
 Attorney by the plaintiff company. 14. Affidavit under Order XI Rule 6 (3) Ex. PW1/B CPC . 20. On statement of AR of the plaintiff, the ex parte evidence
 of the plaintiff was closed on 04-04-2024. 21. After closure of PE, ex parte final arguments were heard. 22. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to give
 up prayers/reliefs regarding restraining the defendants
 from disposing off or dealing with their assets and
 rendition of accounts of profits as prayed in prayer Clause
 Nos. 37(b) and 37(e) respectively of the amended plaint.
 Accordingly, the plaintiff was permitted to give up the said
 reliefs, vide order dated 10-5-2024. In view thereof, the
 suit survives only with respect to reliefs of permanent
 injunction whereby the plaintiff has sought permanent TM/184/2021 Page 12 of 27 -13- injunction against the defendants from using the impugned
 trademark, as also for delivery up and damages to the tune
 of Rs.2 lacs. 23. I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have
 also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF 24. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that
 the entire testimony of PW-1 has remained unchallenged
 and un-rebutted from the side of defendants and therefore,
 the plaintiff company is entitled to the decree, as prayed
 for. In support of his submissions, Counsel also relied
 upon the documents [Ex.PW1/1 to Ex.PW1/13 and
 Ex.PW1/B]. 25. Further, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the
 trademarks/labels LEVI's are well known trademarks of
 the plaintiff and are registered in India under various
 classes of the Trademark Rules 2002, which are valid and
 subsisting in favour of the plaintiff company till date.
 Further, the art works involved in the trademarks/ labels is
 original artistic work and the plaintiff holds copyright
 therein. Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff spends
 huge amount of money in advertising and promotion of its
 products and said marks enjoy a huge goodwill and
 reputation in business community and public in general in
 India and across the world. 26. Further, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff relied upon the report of
 Local Commissioner and submitted that Ld. Local
 Commissioner, while executing the commission in terms
 of the order passed by this Court, had found infringed
 goods bearing falsified impugned trademark/ label from
 the premises of the defendants in his presence, which
 establishes that the defendants were involved in the illegal
 activities. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff submitted that Local
 Commissioner's Report can be read in evidence in terms of
 Order XXVI Rule 10(2) CPC and for this purpose, he also
 relied upon the judgment of our own Hon'ble High Court
 in case titled as "M L Brother LLP v. Mahesh Kumar
 Bhrualal Tanna" [CS (COMM) 126/2022, decided on 12th
 May, 2022]. 27. Further, he submitted that the use of impugned
 trademark /label in similar goods as adopted by the
 defendants, is identical and/ or confusingly or deceptively
 similar to the registered trademark of the plaintiff i.e.
 LEVI's and thus, same amounts to not only committing
 fraud upon the plaintiff company but also upon the unwary
 general public, due to which the plaintiff company suffers
 huge monetary loss and its goodwill and reputation is also
 at stake and therefore, he urged that the suit may be
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendants, thereby restraining the defendants and all
 others acting for and on their behalf from using said
 impugned trade-mark/ label. ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION: 28. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of the
 plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant material
 available on records. JURISDICTION 29. Firstly, as regards jurisdiction of this Court, it is submitted
 by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the defendants are offering
 for sale, and are also supplying, purveying, displaying, and
 soliciting, have intention to sell/solicit their impugned
 goods and business under the impugned trade mark/label
 in New Delhi Area viz. Connaught Place, Gole Market,
 Bengali Market, Chankyapuri, Mandir Marg and adjoining
 areas in clandestine and surreptitious manner and that too
 without issuing formal bills/ invoices. 30. It is further contended that the plaintiff's proprietary rights
 are being prejudicially affected or likely to be so affected
 in New Delhi due to the defendants' impugned activities as
 they have all the intention to use/ sell/ solicit the
 impugned/ counterfeit goods under the impugned
 trademark/ label in the market of New Delhi, and thus,
 whole or part cause of action for filing the present suit has
 arisen u/s 20 CPC. 31. Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff is also carrying on
 its said goods and business under its said trademarks/
 labels in New Delhi through its exclusive dealers and
 special agents / stores including Levi's Exclusive Store,
 F19, Connaught Place, Ivory Place, New Delhi-110001 TM/184/2021 Page 15 of 27 -16- and at Levi's Exclusive Store, B-19, Near McDonalds,
 Inner Circle, Connaught Place, New Delhi-110001, which
 are well within territorial jurisdiction of this Court. 32. Further, the said goods and business of the plaintiff under
 said trademarks are also available, displayed, promoted,
 sold and delivered by the plaintiff through its own
 websites/ domain name i.e. www.levi.com, www.levi.in,
 and www.levistrauss.com, as well as through big online
 marketplace e-commerce websites like Flipkart, Amazon,
 Snapdeal etc., which are interactive in nature, and hence,
 same can be sold and purchased and delivered within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, it is contended
 that this Court further has also territorial jurisdiction to
 entertain and try the present suit within the meaning of S.
 134 (2) of the Trademarks Act, 1999 and also under S.
 62(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957. 33. Further, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has also relied upon
 judgment of Hon'ble Division Bench of our own High
 Court in the case titled as " RSPL Limited v. Mukesh
 Sharma & Anr " reported as 2016 (68) PTC 178 [Del] [DB]
 and judgment in the case of " V Guard Industries Ltd. v.
 Sukan Raj Jain & Anr. " reported as 2021 (87) PTC 333
 [Del]. 34. The PW1 has categorically deposed in her affidavit in
 evidence on identical lines of the averments made in the
 plaint. The PW-1 has also duly proved screenshots
 pertaining to presence of the goods and business of the TM/184/2021 Page 16 of 27 -17- plaintiff under the said trademarks on its own website as
 well as on other e-commerce websites i.e. Amazon and
 Flipkart as Ex.PW1/12 (Colly.). As per same, it is shown
 that goods bearing trademarks/ labels Levi's are available
 on the website of the plaintiff as well as on website of
 Amazon, Flipkart, Myntra and Nykaafashion. 35. PW-1 has also duly proved document i.e. Screenshot
 depicting exclusive stores of the plaintiff as Ex.PW-1/11. As
 per same, it is shown that plaintiff has its store i.e. Levis
 Exclusive Store, situated at B-19, Near McDonalds, Inner
 Circle, Connaught Place, Delhi-110001, which falls within
 the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. 36. The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted as the defendants have neither filed written
 statement nor have chosen to cross-examine PW1. 37. Therefore, in view of the law as laid down by Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court in cases titled as " Banyan Holding (P)
 Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy & Anr. " reported as 2009
 SCC OnLine Del 3780; " World Wrestling Entertainment,
 Inc. v. Reshma Collection & Ors. " reported as 2014 (60)
 PTC 452 (Del.) (DB); and "Burger King v. Tekchand",
 reported as 2018 (76) PTC 90 (Del.), the Court is of the
 considered opinion that the plaintiff has been able to
 satisfy the test of purposeful availment of the impugned
 goods under the impugned trademarks as well as the goods
 under the registered trademarks of the plaintiff being
 available within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, as
 stipulated in the said judgments delivered by Hon'ble TM/184/2021 Page 17 of 27 -18- Delhi High Court. 38. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of the
 facts and circumstances of the case and in view of the
 above cited judgments and keeping in view the fact that
 evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered opinion that
 at least part cause of action has arisen within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court and therefore, this Court has
 territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the suit. PERMANENT INJUNCTION: 39. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trademarks, to quote:- 40. It is now well settled law, as also laid down by our own TM/184/2021 Page 19 of 27 -20- Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace &
 Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC
 63 (Del) that an infringement of trademarks is to be seen
 from the perspective of a layman, to quote:- Specific averment ought to be made that there are no
 disclaimers imposed on the mark and the mark stands
 renewed. Any licenses and assignments ought to be
 pleaded. (iii) xxxx (iv) In the case of (ii), the party ought to file the LPC
 prior to the commencement of the trial, if any aspect
 of the trademarks registration is being disputed by the
 opposite side" DAMAGES: RELIEF: 53. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 54. File be consigned to Record Room, after due compliance.