By this judgment, this Court shall adjudicate a suit for
 mandatory & permanent injunction, mesne profits and damages
 filed by the plaintiff against the defendant. Before adjudicating
 upon the issues framed in the present suit, it is crucial to state the
 pleadings in the present suit concisely. Pleadings of the plaintiff: - signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: That after lodging of FIR, the defendant allegedly pressured her
 husband, Jaspal (the plaintiff's son), to separate from his parents.
 As a result, Jaspal left his old aged parents to live separately with
 the defendant. 4. It is averred that despite this, out of love and affection for
 her son and granddaughter, the plaintiff permitted the defendant
 and Jaspal to reside in her property, i.e., the suit property in the
 year 2010. Consequently, the plaintiff herself moved out of the
 suit property to live in her daughter's house. 5. It is further averred that the defendant continued her
 coercive behaviour even thereafter as she levelled false
 allegations against the plaintiff, her husband and her daughter;
 that the defendant pressured her husband, Jaspal, to transfer the
 property to her name, using threats of self-harm and harming their
 daughter, thereby creating an unhealthy atmosphere in family. 6. It is averred that plaintiff is a senior citizen with no source
 of income, and her son is unable to care of her due to the
 defendant's influence. It is alleged that on the night of November
 18-19, 2016, the defendant kicked her husband Jaspal out of the
 property, with intention of grabbing the suit property; that since

Lalit
 Digitally
 signed by
 Lalit Kumar
 then she has not allowed her husband and the plaintiff to re-enter
 Date: 7. It is averred that the plaintiff sent a legal notice to the
 defendant on January 24, 2017, formally terminating her license,
 withdrawing her permission to reside in the suit property and
 requested the defendant to vacate the suit property and hand over
 keys to the plaintiff; and that the defendant failed to comply with
 this notice. It is also averred that defendant is an unauthorized
 occupant who has illegally taken over the property and refuses to
 leave, despite repeated requests. The plaintiff accuses the
 defendant of making life of plaintiff and her family members a
 "living hell" and attempting to extort money from them.
 Consequently, the plaintiff has filed this suit as a final legal
 remedy, seeking:- 8. Upon service of summons of the present suit, defendant
 appeared and filed her Written Statement ("WS") and denied the
 averments of the plaintiff. 9. At the outset, defendant averred that the suit of the plaintiff
 is not maintainable and is liable to be dismissed as it is a
 counterblast to legal proceedings already initiated by her against
 her husband and in-laws, including the plaintiff, under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 , and
 other criminal provisions; that the Court of Ms. Annu Aggarwal,
 Ld. MM, Tis Hazari Courts, has already passed a stay order dated
 12.08.2016 in her favour in the DV complaint, and hence, the suit
 is barred and not maintainable. She further pleads that under Section 17 of the D.V. Act, being the daughter-in-law, she has a
 statutory right to reside in her matrimonial home/shared
 household, i.e., the suit property, irrespective of ownership or
 title. 10. The defendant further alleges that the present suit has been
 filed by the plaintiff in connivance and collusion with her
 (defendant's) husband Shri Jaspal Singh, and with mala fide
 intentions to harass, torture, and keep her away from the
 matrimonial house. It is further averred that the suit suffers from
 non-joinder of necessary parties, suppression of material facts,
 absence of cause of action, and improper valuation. 11. The defendant denied that the plaintiff is the owner,
 Digitally
 signed by
 asserting instead that her (defendant's) husband, Jaspal Singh, is
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 12. It is averred that she was married to the plaintiff's son,
 Jaspal Singh, on 22.01.2006 at Gurudwara Hall, Vikaspuri, New
 Delhi, according to Sikh rites. That, after the marriage, she was
 brought to her matrimonial home - the suit property - where the
 marriage was consummated, and a daughter, Angel Kaur, now
 aged about 10 years, was born from the wedlock. That her parents
 spent about Rs. 7-8 lakhs on the marriage and gave valuable
 dowry items including jewellery, furniture, utensils, appliances,
 and cash and despite this, she was welcomed with taunts for
 bringing "less dowry" and "inferior goods." 13. The defendant alleges suffering cruelty at the hands of her
 husband and in-laws, including the plaintiff. It is averred that
 from the very next morning of marriage, she was humiliated and
 insulted by her husband, the plaintiff, and other family members
 regarding the dowry and gifts. She alleges that her hopes as a
 newly-wed were shattered due to their rude and callous attitude.
 That her husband repeatedly demanded money from her parents
 for immigration to the UK, insisting on Rs.2 lakhs to process
 visas and for honeymoon expenses; that when her parents
 expressed financial difficulty, her husband and his family threw
 her out of the house, only to take her back when her parents
 managed Rs.50,000/-. 14. It is further averred that her husband was arrested at the
 IGI Airport on 17.02.2006 in FIR No. 91/2006 under Sections
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 15. It is averred that thereafter, a family meeting was arranged
 and it was decided that the defendant will stay with her husband,
 Jaspal Singh and from the parental side of defendant, nobody will
 come to her matrimonial home but they can call on telephone,
 then the defendant returned to her matrimonial house with the
 Jaspal Singh. 16. It is further averred that even during her pregnancy, she
 was not provided sufficient diet and medicines; that she was
 harassed, tortured and beaten up; that after giving birth to a girl
 child on 22.02.2007, she was cursed and humiliated by her in-
 laws, including the plaintiff. Thereafter, she was frequently
 beaten and expelled from her matrimonial home. 17. The defendant has stated details of multiple litigations
 between the parties as follows:- 18. It is further averred that after rejection of her husband's
 anticipatory bail by the Sessions Court, he approached the
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi and during bail proceedings, a
 compromise was arrived at on 26.03.2009, and both parties (the
 defendant and her husband) gave statements before the Hon'ble
 High Court agreeing to live together at their matrimonial home.
 In this regard, it is averred that at that time, her husband showed
 her the papers of the suit property, which was then in his name, to
 assure her of his commitment. Trusting his assurances, she
 resumed cohabitation with him and their daughter at her
 matrimonial home/suit property. 19. It is further averred that thereafter, for some time, their
 marital relationship remained cordial, but soon her husband
 reverted to his abusive behaviour, became possessive, and
 addicted to drugs and alcohol. She claims he confined her at
 home, disallowed her to go out or use his laptop, frequently
 abused and assaulted her. 20. It is also averred that her husband, her sister-in-law and the
 plaintiff, used to reside abroad for months, leaving her and her
 daughter to live like "bonded slaves," deprived of basic
 amenities. It is averred that the plaintiff constantly instigated her
 son to divorce the defendant and sought Rs. 3 lakhs from her
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 21. On merits, the defendant categorically denied that the
 plaintiff is the owner of the suit property. She reiterated that her
 husband, Jaspal Singh, is the actual and lawful owner, and that
 the documents to that effect have been filed before the DV Court.
 She admits her status as daughter-in-law but denies that the
 plaintiff performed the marriage or bore expenses. On the
 contrary, she avers that her own parents spent Rs. 7-8 lakhs and
 provided all gifts and dowry, but the in-laws, including the
 plaintiff, remained dissatisfied and continuously harassed her. 22. The defendant denies all allegations that she misbehaved,
 fought with, or used abusive language towards the plaintiff or her
 husband. She maintains that she never mistreated or humiliated
 them; rather, it was she who was subjected to persistent cruelty,
 beatings, and humiliation. She further denies ever threatening to
 implicate her in-laws in false cases or demanding transfer of
 property in her favour, asserting instead that she was compelled
 to take legal recourse only after unbearable cruelty and threats. Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit
 Date: Plaintiff's Evidence: - Defendant's Evidence (DE): - Decision with reasons: - stated herein above. 29. It is appropriate to briefly deal with the facts of the case in
 light of the law applicable, before giving issue-wise findings. The
 three issues framed in the present case are connected to each
 other i.e., they are arising from the alleged licensor-licensee
 relationship; onus to prove all the issues is on the plaintiff,
 therefore, all the issues shall be decided together. 30. In a gist, the case of the plaintiff is that she is the owner
 and landlord of suit property; she had allowed the defendant and
 her son Jaspal Singh (plaintiff's son and defendant's husband) to
 occupy out of love and affection. However, after marriage, the
 defendant allegedly became quarrelsome, abusive, and
 disrespectful toward the plaintiff and her family, filing false
 criminal complaints to pressurize them into transferring the suit
 property in her name; that the defendant expelled her husband
 from the suit property and has since then unlawfully retained
 possession of the suit property despite termination of her license
 by legal notice dated 24.01.2017. Essentially, the plaintiff has
 alleged licensor-licensee relationship between herself and the
 defendant, which came to be terminated through a legal notice. 31. Whereas, on the other hand, it is the case of the defendant
 that she has a statutory right to reside in the matrimonial/shared
 household, i.e., the suit property under the DV Act . The
 defendant has also contended that the suit property was earlier in
 the name of her husband; that there is collusion between the
 plaintiff, her son and other family members to oust her from the
Lalit
 Digitally
 signed by
 Lalit Kumar
 Date: 32. The defendant has relied upon several judgments of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and the Hon'ble High Court of
 Delhi in support of her defense. Out of these judgments, three
 judgments lay down relevant legal propositions. These judgments
 are - Satish Chander Ahuja v. Sneha Ahuja1 and S. Vanitha v.
 Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban District & Ors.2 of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and Ambika Jain v. Ram
 Prakash Sharma & Ors.3 of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. The
 other judgments relied upon by the defendant are no longer good
 in law since these judgments relied upon a previous ruling of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in S.R. Batra v. Taruna Batra4 ,
 which came to be overruled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the Satish Chander Ahuja v. Sneha Ahuja5 (hereinafter " Satish
 Chander Ahuja case"). 33. In Satish Chander Ahuja case, the Hon'ble Supreme Court,
 while dealing with Ss. 2(s)(definition of 'shared household'), 17
 (Right to reside in a shared household) and 19 (Residence orders)
 of the DV Act has held that the DV Act was enacted to give a
 higher right in favour of woman; that Ss. 2(s) read with Ss. 17
 and 19 grants an entitled in favour of woman of right of residence
 under shared household irrespective of her having any legal
 interest in same or not. It was further held that definition of
 'shared household' given in S.2(s) cannot be read to mean that
 shared household can only be that household which is household
 1 VII (2020) SLT 354, (2021) 1 SCC 414. 2 I (2021) SLT 1, 2020 SCC OnLine SC 1023. 3 266 (2020) Delhi Law Times 18. Digitally
 4 136 (2007) DLT 1 (SC), I (2007) SLT 1. 5 supra. signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 6 Supra. Kumar
 Date: 7 Supra. Suit No.488/2017 Amrit Kaur Vs. Manpreet Kaur Page-15/23 - 16 - guided by the observation of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
 in Satish Chander Ahuja case, wherein it has been observed in
 paragraph no. 82 that: - 38. In view of the abovementioned legal propositions laid
 down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satish Chander Ahuja Case and S. Vanitha v. Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban
 District & Ors.8 and as per the abovementioned admitted facts, it
 is safe to conclude that suit property is the shared household of
 the defendant. 39. Since it has been held that the suit property is a shared
 household of the defendant, it essentially follows that the
 defendant has a statutory right to reside in the suit property by
 virtue of S.17(1) , DV Act. Further, the judgments in Satish
 Chander Ahuja case, S. Vanitha v. Deputy Commissioner ,
 Bengaluru Urban District & Ors.9 and Ambika Jain v. Ram
 Prakash Sharma & Ors.10 support the defendant's defense that as
 the legally wedded wife of Jaspal Singh (son of plaintiff), she has
 a statutory right to reside in the matrimonial home, i.e., the suit
 8 Supra. 9 Supra. Digitally
 signed by
 10 Supra. Lalit
Lalit Kumar
Kumar Date: Mr. Jaspal (son of the plaintiff and husband of the defendant)
 could have given the best evidence about the facts, circumstances
 and events of that night, however, the plaintiff did not examine
 him as a witness. In absence of testimony of the Mr. Jaspal, the
 allegations of the plaintiff remain merely hearsay, ergo, unproved
 and unreliable. It is not the case of the plaintiff that her son has
 abandoned his parents, or that the plaintiff and her son are not on
 cordial terms. In fact, in her cross examination, it was admitted
 by the plaintiff that her son is living with her at house no. H-117,
 Sant Nagar Extention, Delhi, which belongs to her daughter,
 Digitally
 signed by
 Sheetal. The plaintiff also admitted that her son has been residing
 Lalit
Lalit Kumar
Kumar Date: that she did not place the chain of document on the record; that
 she did not know the exact amount that was paid; that she had not
 personally paid for the purchase of suit property. The plaintiff
 also admitted that she is a housewife and did not file ITRs; she
 gave an evasive account as to the source of funds (cash from
 brothers living in Dubai via some relatives). Lalit by Lalit Kumar
 Date: However, there is no evidence on record to show
 that Ms. Avtar Kaur ever resided in or took
 possession of the suit property. The defendant has
 established that before and after June 2008, she was
 residing in the suit property along with her
 husband. iii. In view of the abovementioned, the transactions
 related to the suit property within the family
 members of the plaintiff reek of collusion with an
 apparent objective of defeating the right of shared
 household of the defendant. 44. After considering the pleadings and the evidence of both
 sides, and in view of the above mentioned legal and factual
 discussion, following conclusions are reached: 45. In view of above findings, the plaintiff's suit for mandatory
 and permanent injunctions and for mesne profits cannot be
 allowed so as to deprive the defendant of the statutory protection.
 Thus, the suit so far as it seeks dispossession is also liable to be
 dismissed because the defendant has established her defence of
 protection of her right to residence in the suit property under the DV Act . The claim for mesne profits is founded on the allegation
 of unauthorized occupation and the plaintiff has not established
 unlawful occupation of the defendant. Accordingly, all of the
 three issues are decided against the plaintiff and in favour of the
 defendant. Digitally
 signed by Lalit
Lalit Kumar
 Date: 46. Resultantly, the suit of the plaintiff is dismissed. Cost: - 47. Considering the overall conduct of the plaintiff and the fact
that the defendant has successfully defended the suit on a
statutory and factual basis, the plaintiff shall pay cost of Rs.
25,000/- (twenty-five thousand only) to the defendant. 48. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 49. File be consigned to Record Room after compliance. Lalit by Lalit Kumar
 Date: