1. Heard Sri K. Srinivas, learned counsel for the petitioner

revisionist and Sri S. Venkata Sai, learned Special Assistant Public

Prosecutor for the respondent/State. 2. The criminal revision under Sections 397 / 401 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure,1973,(" Cr.P.C ") has been filed challenging the

judgment dated 29.11.2006, passed by the I Additional Sessions Judge,

Guntur, in Criminal Appeal No.175 of 2005 Palla Subba Rao vs. State

filed against the judgment dated 30.03.2005, passed by the II

Additional Judicial Magistrate of the First Class, Bapatla, in C.C.No.172

of 2004 State vs. Palla Subba Rao. 3. The facts of the case are that on 21.05.2004 at about 10.00 a.m,

the accused approached Bodepudi Balasekhar (L.W.2) in C.S.D

Canteen, Air-force Station, Suryalanka, styled himself as G. Krishna

Rao, Ex-Servicemen, and forged Discharge Book bearing

No.Ex.7764248-N with Rank NB/Sub., Identity Card with District Code

No.AP-10/1345 and Canteen Transfer Certificate said to have been

issued by the Station Head-quarters, Secunderabad and requested to

issue fresh Canteen Card. Bodepudi Balasekhar (L.W.2) Manager, Air

Force Canteen, Suryalanka verified all the said documents and came to

the conclusion that those documents are forged documents. The

accused was produced before R.K Vashistha, Flight Leftnant, Station

Security Officer (L.W.1). A case in Crime No.30 of 2004 under Sections

419 , 420 and 468 IPC was registered. The Sub Inspector of Police,

visited the scene of offence, examined and recorded the statement of the

witnesses. The Sub Inspector of Police addressed a letter to T. 4 Tirupathireddy, Zilla Sainik Welfare Officer (L.W.4) regarding the

genuineness of the documents who issued a reply in

Lr.No.A.3/794/2004 dated 16.06.2004, and further that the District

Code No.AP.10 belongs to Krishna District whereas the Code Number of

Prakasam District is A.P.13. Investigation further revealed that no

Ex.Servicemen by name G. Krishna Rao was enrolled in the unit of

Prakasam District. After completion of the investigation, the

Investigation Officer filed the charge sheet that the accused with a

malafide intention personated himself as G. Krishna Rao, created and

produced the forged documents before the Air Force Station authorities

at Suryalanka cheating them to get fresh canteen card to avail facilities

of the canteen. 4. The case was taken on file of the Judicial Magistrate under Sections 419 , 420 , 468 IPC against the accused. On appearance,

copies of documents were furnished to the accused as required under Section 207 Cr.P.C. The accused was examined under Section 239 Cr.P.C. He denied the offence. After hearing and on consideration of

the material, charges under Sections 419 , 420 and 468 IPC were

framed, read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed for trial. 5. The prosecution in all examined P.Ws.1 to 4 and got marked

Exs.P.1 to P.7 and M.Os.1 to 7. After closure of prosecution evidence,

the accused was examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C. The accused did

not adduce any evidence or marked any documents on his behalf. 6. The Judicial Magistrate vide judgment dated 30.03.2005

convicted the petitioner under Sections 419 , 420 and 468 IPC and

sentenced him to undergo R.I for one year each, and to pay fine of

Rs.1000 each, and in default, to suffer S.I for 3 months each. The 5 punishment was to run concurrently and the period undergone by the

petitioner was set off. 7. The revisionst filed appeal in which the I Additional Sessions

Judge, Guntur, vide judgment dated 29.11.2006 dismissed the appeal

confirming the conviction for the offences under Sections 419 and 468 IPC, but the conviction under Section 420 IPC was set aside and

instead, the appellant was convicted for the offence under Sections 420 read with 511 IPC . The sentence as imposed by the trial court was

modified to the effect that the petitioner was to undergo R.I for a period

of 6 months for each offence and to pay fine of Rs.1,000/- for each

offence and in default to undergo three months S.I, for each offence. 8. Sri K. Srinivas, learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted

that any independent witness is not examined and all the witnesses are

the official witnesses. Mr. G. Krishna Rao, to whom, the petitioner is

said to have impersonated, is not examined, and in the absence of any

charge under Section 420 read with Section 511 IPC, the petitioner

could not be convicted and sentenced by the appellate court under

those Sections. There was no delivery of any property; only production

of fake document and therefore the offence under Section 420 read with Section 511 IPC was not made out. He lastly submitted that

considering the nature of charge and that the petitioner remained in jail

for seven days, the sentence may be reduced to already undergone. 9. Sri S. Venkata Sai Nath, learned Special Assistant Public

Prosecutor, submitted that in the nature of the charge, only the official

witnesses were the material witnesses which were produced and non-

examination of an independent witness is not fatal to the prosecution

case. He further submitted that the appellate court having found that

there was an attempt to commit the offence punishable under Section

420 r/w 511 IPC , has rightly convicted and sentenced the petitioner for 6 the offence under those sections. He has placed reliance on the

judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Hari Ram vs. State of U.P1 and Sudhir Kumar Mukherjee and Sham Lal Shaw vs. State of West

Bengal2 . 10. I have considered the submissions advanced by the learned

counsels for the parties and perused the material on record. 11. The court proceeds to first consider the submission on the point

of non-framing of specific charge under Section 420 r/w Section 511 IPC. 12. Section 221 Cr.P.C reads as under: section (1), he may be convicted of the offence which he is shown
 to have committed, although he was not charged with it.
 Illustrations (a) A is accused of an act which may amount to theft, or receiving
 stolen property, or criminal breach of trust or cheating. He may be
 charged with theft, receiving stolen property, criminal breach of
 trust and cheating, or he may be charged with having committed
 theft, or receiving stolen property, or criminal breach of trust or
 cheating. (b) In the case mentioned, A is only charged with theft. It appears
 that he committed the offence of criminal breach of trust, or that
 of receiving stolen goods. He may be convicted of criminal breach
 of trust or of receiving stolen goods (as the case may be), though
 he was not charged with such offence. (c) A states on oath before the Magistrate that he saw B hit C with
 a club. Before the Sessions Court A states on oath that B never 1 (2004) 8 Supreme Court Cases 146 2 (1974) 3 Supreme Court Cases 357 7 hit C. A may be charged in the alternative and convicted of
 intentionally giving false evidence, although it cannot be proved
 which of these contradictory statements was false." 13. Section 464 Cr.P.C provides as under: 14. In Narwinder Singh vs. State of Punjab3 , the Hon‟ble Apex

Court held that the nature of the offence under Section 304-B and 306 IPC are not distant and different categories. The Apex Court did not

find substance in the submission of the appellant therein that there

could be no conviction under Section 306 IPC in the absence of a

charge framed under Section 306 IPC. 15. It is relevant to reproduce the paragraphs 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23
of Narwinder Singh (supra) as under: 19. A two-Judge Bench of this Court (K. Jayachandra Reddy and
G.N. Ray, JJ.) has held in Lakhjit Singh v. State of Punjab1 that
if a prosecution failed to establish the offence under Section
302 IPC, which alone was included in the charge, but if the
offence under Section 306 IPC was made out in the evidence it is
permissible for the court to convict the accused of the latter
offence. 20. But without reference to the above decision , another two-
Judge Bench of this Court (M.K. Mukherjee and S.P. Kurdukar,
JJ.) has held in Sangaraboina Sreenu v. State of A.P. that it is
impermissible to do so. The rationale advanced by the Bench for
the above position is this:(SCC p.348, para 2) "It is true
that Section 222 CrPC entitles a court to convict a person of an
offence which is minor in comparison to the one for which he is
tried but Section 306 IPC cannot be said to be a minor offence in
relation to an offence under Section 302 IPC within the meaning
of Section 222 CrPC for the two offences are of distinct and
different categories. While the basic constituent of an offence
under Section 302 IPC is homicidal death, those of Section
306 IPC are suicidal death and abetment thereof." 21. The crux of the matter is this: Would there be occasion
for a failure of justice by adopting such a course as to
convict an accused of the offence under Section 304-B IPC
when all the ingredients necessary for the said offence have
come out in evidence, although he was not charged with the
said offence? In this context a reference to Section 464(1) of the
Code is apposite: "464. (1) No finding, sentence or order by a
court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely
on the ground that no charge was framed or on the ground of
any error, omission or irregularity in the charge including any
misjoinder of charges, unless, in the opinion of the court of
appeal, confirmation or revision, a failure of justice has in fact
been occasioned thereby". (emphasis supplied) 9 22. In other words, a conviction would be valid even if there
 is any omission or irregularity in the charge, provided it did
 not occasion a failure of justice. 23. We often hear about "failure of justice" and quite often the
 submission in a criminal court is accentuated with the said
 expression. Perhaps it is too pliable or facile an expression which
 could be fitted in any situation of a case. The expression "failure
 of justice" would appear, sometimes, as an etymological
 chameleon (the simile is borrowed from Lord Diplock in Town
 Investments Ltd. v. Deptt . of the Environment). The criminal
 court, particularly the superior court should make a close
 examination to ascertain whether there was really a failure of
 justice or whether it is only a camouflage." We are of the considered opinion that the aforesaid observations
 do not apply to the facts of the present case. 21. The High Court upon meticulous scrutiny of the entire
 evidence on record rightly concluded that there was no evidence to
 indicate the commission of offence under Section 304-B IPC. It was
 also observed that the deceased had committed suicide due to
 harassment meted out to her by the appellant but there was no
 evidence on record to suggest that such harassment or cruelty was
 made in connection to any dowry demands. Thus, cruelty or
 harassment sans any dowry demands which drives the wife to commit
 suicide attracts the offence of `abetment of suicide' under Section
 306 IPC and not Section 304-B IPC which defines the offence and
 punishment for `dowry death'. 22. It is a settled proposition of law that mere omission or
 defect in framing charge would not disable the Court from
 convicting the accused for the offence which has been found to be
 proved on the basis of the evidence on record. In such
 circumstances, the matter would fall within the purview
 of Section 221 (1) and (2) of the Cr.P.C . In the facts of the present
 case, the High Court very appropriately converted the conviction
 under Section 304-B to one under Section 306 IPC. 23. In our opinion, there has been no failure of justice in the
 conviction of the appellant under Section 306 IPC by the High Court,
 even though the specific charge had not been framed. Therefore, we
 see no reason to interfere with the judgment of the High Court." 16. Learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out as to what

failure of justice was occasioned to the accused herein for omission to 10 frame the charge under Section 420 read with Section 511 IPC. The

charge under Section 420 IPC was specifically framed. The nature of

the offence under Section 420 IPC and read with Section 511 IPC, is not

entirely distant and different. The offence if committed is punishable

under Section 420 but if it falls short of commission and is at the stage

of attempt, it falls under Section 420 read with Section 511 . There

being charge under Section 420 IPC, if on the same evidence, the

appellate court was satisfied that the offence under Section 420 IPC was

not made out but there was an attempt to commit the offence it did not

commit any illegality in convicting the revisionst for the offence under Section 420 read with Section 511 IPC, I do not find any failure of

justice to the accused merely because of non framing of a specific

charge under Section 420 read with Section 511 IPC. 17. The court now proceeds to consider the submissions of the learned

counsel for the revisionst that as there was no delivery of any property

the offence under Section 420 read with Section 511 IPC was not made. 18. Section 420 IPC reads as under:- 19. Section 415 IPC defines "cheating" which reads as under: quence of such sale he has no right to the property, sells or
 mortgages the same to Z, without disclosing the fact of the previous
 sale and conveyance to B, and receives the purchase or mortgage
 money from Z. A cheats." 20. Section 511 IPC reads as under: 21. In Sudhir Kumar Mukherjee and Sham Lal Shaw vs. State of

West Bengal4 , the Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that the dividing line

between a preparation and an attempt is very thin, but the moment a

person takes some step to deceive the person sought to be cheated, he

has embarked on a course of conduct which is nothing less than an

attempt to commit an offence as contemplated by Section 511 IPC. He

does the act with the intention to commit the offence and the act is a

step towards the commission of the offence. 22. Paragraph 5 of Sudhir Kumar Mukherjee (supra) is reproduced

as under: The law on this point was elaborately discussed with reference to
 all the decided cases by this Court in its decision in Abhavanand
 Mishra v. State of Bihar5 . We will confine ourselves to stating a
 few relevant extracts therefrom. It was pointed out in that decision 4 (1974) 3 SCC 357 5 AIR 1961 SC 1698 13 that "The moment a person takes some step to deceive the
 person sought to be cheated, he has embarked on a course of
 conduct which is nothing less than an attempt to commit the
 offence as contemplated by S. 51 1 . He does the act with the
 intention to commit the offence and the act is a step towards the
 commission of the offence." The -decision in The Queen v. Ramsarun Chowbey6 was referred
 to and this Court specifically laid down that the act towards the
 commission of such an offence need not be an act which leads
 immediately (2) (1872) 4 N. W. P. 46 (1) [ 1 9621 (2) S. C. R. 241 to
 the commission of the offence. The decision In the matter of the
 petition of R. Mac Crea (l) was also referred to. The purport of that
 decision was explained to be that S. 511 was not meant to cover
 only the penultimate act towards the completion of an offence;
 acts precedent, if those acts are done in the course of the attempt
 to commit the offence, and were done with the intent to commit it
 and done towards its commission were also covered. In that
 decision Knox, J. said "Again, the attempt once begun and a
 criminal act done in pursuance of it towards the commission of
 the act attempted, does not cease to be, a criminal attempt, in my
 opinion, because the person committing the offence does or may
 repent before the attempt is completed." This Court cited with approval the statement of Blair, J. "It seems
 to me that that Section 511 uses the word ,attempt' in a very large
 sense; it seems to imply that such an attempt may be made up of
 a series of acts, and that any one of those acts done towards the
 commission of the offence, that is, conducive to its commission, is
 itself punishable, and though the act does not use the words, it
 can mean nothing but punishable as an attempt. It does not say
 that the last act which would form the final part of an attempt in
 the larger sense is the only act punishable under the section. It
 says expressly that whosoever in such attempt, obviously using
 the word in the larger sense, does any act, etc., shall be
 punishable. The term 'any act' excludes the, notion that the final
 act short of actual commission is alone punishable."

 This Court also referred to certain other decisions and pointed out
 that any different view expressed has been due to an omission to
 notice the fact that the provisions of s. 511 differ from the English
 Law with respect to 'attempt to commit an offence', and that it is
 not necessary for the offence under s. 511 , Indian Penal Code,
 that the transaction commenced must end in the crime or offence,
 if not interrupted. This Court finally summarised its views
 about the construction of Section 511 thus: 6 With respect we concur in this view....." 23. In the State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Mahendra Alias Golu7 , the

Hon‟ble Apex Court held that in every crime, there is first mens rea i.e

intention to commit, secondly preparation to commit and thirdly,

attempt to commit it. Attempt is the execution of mens rea after

preparation. Attempt starts where preparation ends, though it falls

short of active commission of the crime. The preparation or attempt to

commit the offence will be predominately determined on evaluation of

the act and conduct of the accused and as to whether or not the

incident tantamounts to trnassgrassing the thin space between

preparation and attempt. Attempt itself is punishable offence in view of Section 511 IPC. 24. It is apt to refer paras 11 to 18 of Mahendra Alias Golu (supra)

as under: of „preparation‟ consists of deliberation, devising or arranging the
means or measures, which would be necessary for the commission
o f the offence. Whereas, an „attempt‟ to commit the offence, starts
immediately after the completion of preparation. „Attempt‟ is the
execution of mens rea after preparation. `Attempt‟ starts where
`preparation‟ comes to an end, though it falls short of actual
commission of the crime. 13. However, if the attributes are unambiguously beyond the
stage of preparation, then the misdemeanours shall qualify to be
termed as an „attempt‟ to commit the principal offence and such
„attempt‟ in itself is a punishable offence in view of Section 511 IPC.
The „preparation‟ or „attempt‟ to commit the offence will be
predominantly determined on evaluation of the act and conduct of
an accused; and as to whether or not the incident tantamounts to
transgressing the thin space between `preparation‟ and „attempt‟. If
no overt act is attributed to the accused to commit the offence and
only elementary exercise was undertaken and if such preparatory
acts cause a strong inference of the likelihood of commission of the
actual offence, the accused will be guilty of preparation to commit
the crime, which may or may not be punishable, depending upon
the intent and import of the penal laws. 14. Section 511 IPC is a general provision dealing with attempts to
commit offences which are not made punishable by other specific
sections of the Code and it provides, inter alia, that, "whoever
attempts to commit an offence punishable by this Code with
imprisonment for life or imprisonment, or to cause such an offence
to be committed, and in such attempt does any act towards the
commission of the offence, shall, where no express provision is
made by this Code for the punishment of such attempt, be
punished with imprisonment of any description provided for the
offence, for a term which may extend to one half of the
imprisonment for life or, as the case may be, one half of the longest
term of imprisonment provided for that offence, or with such fine as
is provided for the offence, or with both". 15. It is extremely relevant at this stage to brush up the elementary
components of the offence of „Rape‟ under Section 375 IPC, as was
in force at the time when the occurrence took place in the instant
case. The definition of „Rape‟, before the 2013 Amendment, used to
provide that "A man is said to commit "rape" who, except in the
case hereinafter excepted, has sexual intercourse with a woman
under circumstances falling under any of the six following
descriptions:-- 16. A plain reading of the above provision spells out that sexual
intercourse with a woman below sixteen years, with or without her
consent, amounted to „Rape‟ and mere penetration was sufficient to
prove such offence. The expression „penetration‟ denotes ingress of
male organ into the female parts, however slight it may be. This
Court has on numerous occasions explained what „penetration‟
conveys under the unamended Penal Code which was in force at
the relevant time. In Aman Kumar (supra), it was summarised that: 17. Even prior thereto, this Court in Madan Lal vs. State of
J&K2 opined that the degree of the act of an accused is notably
decisive to differentiate between „preparation‟ and „attempt‟ to
commit rape. It was held thus: 18. The difference between `attempt‟ and `preparation‟ in a rape
 case was again elicited by this Court in Koppula Venkat Rao vs.
 State of A.P.3 , laying down that: "10. An attempt to commit an
 offence is an act, or a series of acts, which leads inevitably to the
 commission of the offence, unless something, which the doer of the
 act neither foresaw nor intended, happens to prevent this. An
 attempt may be described to be an act done in partexecution of a
 criminal design, amounting to more (2004) 3 SCC 602 Page | 13
 than mere preparation, but falling short of actual consummation,
 and, possessing, except for failure to consummate, all the elements
 of the substantive crime. In other words, an attempt consists in it
 the intent to commit a crime, falling short of, its actual commission
 or consummation/completion. It may consequently be defined as
 that which if not prevented would have resulted in the full
 consummation of the act attempted. The illustrations given
 in Section 511 clearly show the legislative intention to make a
 difference between the cases of a mere preparation and an
 attempt". 25. In view of the concurrent findings recorded by the court below

based on the evidence on record, this Court finds that the act and

conduct of the accused is indicative of his definite intention to commit

the offence under Section 420 IPC. If the accused was successful in his

attempt and had got the canteen card then there would have been the

delivery of the goods as well. In that case the offence under Section 420 IPC would have been completed. The offence fell short of its

commission under Section 420 IPC but there was an attempt to commit

the offence under Section 420 IPC for which delivery of goods is not a

condition precedent. 26. The court now deals with the submission of the learned counsel

for the revisionst that there is no independent witness and as such

offence is not proved. 27. In Hari Ram vs. State of U.P8 , the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, on

the point of non-examination of independent witnesses held as under in

Paras 17 to 22 which are reproduced as under: 8 Relationship is not a factor to affect credibility of a witness. It is
 more often than not that a relation would not conceal actual culprit
 and make allegations against an innocent person. Foundation has to
 be laid if plea of false implication is made. In such cases, the court
 has to adopt a careful approach and analyse evidence to find out
 whether it is cogent and credible. 18. In Dalip Singh and Ors. v. The State of
 Punjab9 it has been laid down as under:- 19. The above decision has since been followed in Guli
 Chand and Ors. v. State of Rajasthan (1974 (3) SCC 698) in
 which Vadivelu Thevar v. State of Madras (AIR 1957 SC 614) was also relied upon. 20. We may also observe that the ground that the witness being a
 close relative and consequently being a partisan witness, should not be
 relied upon, has no substance. This theory was repelled by this Court as
 early as in Dalip Singh 's case (supra) in which surprise was expressed
 over the impression which prevailed in the minds of the Members of the
 Bar that relatives were not independent witnesses. Speaking through
 Vivian Bose, J. it was observed: 9 21. Again in Masalti and Ors. v. State of U.P. (AIR 1965
SC 202) this Court observed: (p, 209-210 para 14): 22. As observed by this Court in State of Rajasthan v. Teja Ram
and Ors. (AIR 1999 SC 1776) the over-insistence on witnesses having no
relation with the victims often results in criminal justice going away. When
any incident happens in a dwelling house or nearby the most natural
witnesses would be the inmates of that house. It would be unpragmatic to
ignore such natural witnesses and insist on outsiders who would not have
even seen any thing. If the Court has discerned from the evidence or
even from the investigation records that some other independent
person has witnessed any event connecting the incident in question
then there is justification for making adverse comments against non-
examination of such person as prosecution witness. Otherwise,
merely on surmises the Court should not castigate a prosecution for
not examining other persons of the locality as prosecution witnesses.
Prosecution can be expected to examine only those who have
witnessed the events and not those who have not seen it though the
neighbourhood may be replete with other residents also. (See Sucha
Singh and Anr. v. State of Punjab (2003 (7) SCC 643) 20 28. In Krishan Chand vs. State of H.P10 , the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

held that the evidence of the official witnesses cannot be rejected on the

ground of non corroboration by an independent witness. 29. In the present case, it could not be shown nor even argued by the

learned counsel for the revisionst that any witness, other than the

official witness, witnessed the event nor that the official witnesses had

the cause to falsely implicate the accused. 30. The plea of non examination of an independent witness therefore

is of no substance particularly when the guilt of the accused has been

proved by the official witnesses. 31. There is no person by name G. Krishna Rao. Consequently, the

submission made by the learned counsel for the revisionst that G.

Krishna Rao the person impersonated, was not examined has no

substance. 32. The learned courts below have concurrently recorded finding that

the accused himself produced Exs.P.3 to P.5 before P.W.2 by

impersonating as G. Krishna Rao, Ex.Service Man in Prakasam District.

The testimony of P.W.2 is that the accused introduced himself as G.

Krishna Rao and produced the Ex.P.3 identity card Ex.P.4 discharge

book, Ex.P.5 Canteen Transfer Certificate. Those documents were false

documents and were produced with an intention to deceive the canteen

authorities for wrongful gain by impersonation. The oral testimony of

P.Ws.1 and 2 was fully supported by the oral testimony of P.W.3. The

testimony of the Investigating Officer also fully supported the

prosecution version. If the documents Exs.P.3 to P.5 had been accepted

by the Canteen Authorities, the ultimate beneficiary was the accused.

The finding is recorded that by examining P.Ws.1 to 4 and marking

Exs.P.1 to P.7 and M.Os.1 to 7, the prosecution established the guilt of 10 (2018) 1 SCC 222 21 the accused for the offences under Sections 420 read with 511 IPC , 419

and 468 IPC , beyond all reasonable doubt. 33. The concurrent findings of guilt recorded by the courts below is

based on evidence on record and it could not be shown that the finding

suffers from any illegality or perversity or arbitrary exercise of judicial

discretion or on such other ground so as to call for an interference in

the exercise of revisional jurisdiction. 34. The scope of interference by the High Court in exercise of powers

of revision under Sections 397 / 401 Cr.P.C. is very limited which cannot

be exercised in a routine manner. In Amit Kapoor vs. Ramesh

Chander and another11 the Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that " Section

397 of the Code vests the court with the power to call for and examine

the records of an inferior court for the purposes of satisfying itself as to

the legality and regularity of any proceedings or order made in a case.

The object of this provision is to set right a patent defect or an error of

jurisdiction or law. There has to be a well- founded error and it may not

be appropriate for the court to scrutinize the orders, which upon the

face of it bears a token of careful consideration and appear to be in

accordance with law. If one looks into the various judgments of this

Court, it emerges that the revisional jurisdiction can be invoked where

the decisions under challenge are grossly erroneous, there is no

compliance with the provisions of law, the finding recorded is based on

no evidence, material evidence is ignored or judicial discretion is

exercised arbitrarily or perversely. These are not exhaustive classes, but

are merely indicative. Each case would have to be determined on its

own merits." 11 (2012) 9 SCC 460 22 35. On the point of leniency in punishment, it is apt to refer the

judgment in State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Suresh12 , wherein the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that awarding of just and adequate

punishment to the wrongdoer in case of proven crime remains a part of

duty of the court. Paras 11 to 14 reads as under: 17. Imposition of sentence without considering its effect
on the social order in many cases may be in reality a
futile exercise. The social impact of the crime e.g. where it
relates to offences against women, dacoity, kidnapping,
misappropriation of public money, treason and other 24 offences involving moral turpitude or moral delinquency
 which have great impact on social order and public
 interest cannot be lost sight of and per se require
 exemplary treatment. Any liberal attitude by imposing
 meagre sentences or taking too sympathetic a view
 merely on account of lapse of time in respect of such
 offences will be result-wise counterproductive in the long
 run and against societal interest which needs to be cared
 for and strengthened by a string of deterrence inbuilt in
 the sentencing system. 19. Similar view has also been expressed in Ravji v. State
 of Rajasthan : (1996) 2 SCC 175. It has been held in the
 said case that it is the nature and gravity of the crime but
 not the criminal, which are germane for consideration of
 appropriate punishment in a criminal trial. The court will
 be failing in its duty if appropriate punishment is not
 awarded for a crime which has been committed not only
 against the individual victim but also against the society
 to which the criminal and victim belong. The punishment
 to be awarded for a crime must not be irrelevant but it
 should conform to and be consistent with the atrocity
 and brutality with which the crime has been perpetrated,
 the enormity of the crime warranting public abhorrence
 and it should "respond to the society‟s cry for justice
 against the criminal". ......" (underlining supplied for
 emphasis) 12. In Alister Anthony Pareira (supra), the allegations against
the appellant had been that while driving a car in drunken
condition, he ran over the pavement, killing 7 persons and causing
injuries to 8. He was charged for the offences under Sections 304 Part II and 338 IPC ; was ultimately convicted by the High Court
under Sections 304 Part II, 338 and 337 IPC ; and was sentenced to
3 years' rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 5 lakhs for the
offence under Section 304 Part II IPC and to rigorous imprisonment
for 1 year and for 6 months respectively for the offences
under Section 338 and 337 IPC . Apart from other contentions, one
of the pleas before this Court was that in view of fine and
compensation already paid and willingness to make further
payment as also his age and family circumstances, the appellant
may be released on probation or his sentence may be reduced to
that already undergone. As regards this plea for modification of
sentence, this Court traversed through the principles of penology,
as enunciated in several of the past decisions1 and, while observing
that the facts and circumstances of the case show 'a despicable
aggravated offence warranting punishment proportionate to the 25 crime', this Court found no justification for extending the benefit of
probation or for reduction of sentence. On the question of
sentencing, this Court re-emphasised as follows:- 36. In Radey Shyam vs. State13 , the High Court of Judicature at

Allahabad held that in the matter of awarding punishment multiple

factors have to be considered. The law regulates social interests,

arbitrates conflicting claims and demands. Security of individuals as

well as property of individuals is one of the essential functions of the

State. The administration of criminal law justice is a mode to achieve

this goal. The inherent cardinal principle of criminal administration of

justice is that the punishment imposed on an offender should be

adequate so as to serve the purpose of deterrence as well as

reformation. It should reflect the crime, the offender has committed

and should be proportionate to the gravity of the offence. Sentencing

process should be sterned so as to give a message to the offender as

well as the person like him roaming free in the society not to indulge in

criminal activities but also to give a message to society that an offence if

committed, would not go unpunished. The offender should be suitably

punished so that society also get a message that if something wrong has

been done, one will have to pay for it in proper manner irrespective of

time lag. 37. Recently in State of Rajasthan vs. Banwari Lal and others14, on

the point for awarding an appropriate sentence, the Hon‟ble Apex Court

held that merely because a long period has elapsed by the time the

appeal is decided cannot be a ground to award the punishment which is

inadequate. 38. The sentence as imposed by the trial court has already been

reduced by the appellate court. I do not find any ground to interfere

with the sentence as imposed by the appellate court, to reduce the

sentence further or to limit it to already undergone as any valid ground 13 2019 SCC OnLine All 4962 14 2022 SCC OnLine SCC 428 27 for such reduction has not been raised by the learned counsel for the

revisionst. 39. For all the aforesaid reasons, I do not find any illegality in the

impugned order. The revision lacks merits and is dismissed. 40. The revisionst is on bail. The bail is cancelled. The trial court is

directed to ensure that the revisionst is sent to the prison to serve the

remaining sentence as imposed upon him by the appellate Court. Let a copy of this judgment with the record of the court below be

forthwith sent to the court below for compliance. Consequently, the Miscellaneous Petitions, if any, shall

also stand closed. _________________________
 RAVI NATH TILHARI, J
Date:19.04.2022,
Gk 28 HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE RAVI NATH TILHARI

 CRIMINAL REVISION CASE No.1973 OF 2006

 19.04.2022

Gk