2025:HHC:7452

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MMO No. 756 of 2024
 Reserved on: 13.03.2025
 Date of Decision: 24.03.2025

 Rohit Mahajan & others
 ...Petitioners
 Versus

 State of Himachal Pradesh and another

 ...Respondents
 Coram
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes

 For the petitioners : Mr. Arvind Sharma, Advocate.

 For the Respondent/State : Mr. Jitender K. Sharma,
 learned Additional Advocate
 General

 Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The present petition under Section 528 of The

 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (BNSS) has been filed

 for quashing of F.I.R. No. 293 of 2021, dated 16.11.2021 for the

 commission of offences punishable under Sections 498-A, 504

 and 506 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code ( IPC ), 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 2025:HHC:7452

registered at Police Station Sundernagar, District Mandi, H.P.

and consequential proceedings arising out of the F.I.R. 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

petition are that the informant made a complaint to Police Post

Dehar on 16.11.2021 stating that she was married to accused

Rohit Mahajan six years before filing the complaint. One

daughter Yahana and one son Yashit were born to her. Her

husband Rohit Mahajan, her mother-in-law Veena Mahajan,

her father-in-law Sushil Mahajan, and her sisters-in-law

Ruchita, Suchita and Sumila started picking up faults in the

household chores done by her after the lapse of some months.

They used to say that the informant was a 'Pahadan', who did

not know household work, she did know how to cook food, her

parents had not taught her anything and her parents had no

standards. Accused Ruchita, Suchita and Sumila used to taunt

her for the work done by her. They used to say that her parents

had not provided anything in the marriage. The informant's

parents gifted a Kisan Vikas Patra of ₹1,00,000/- to her. The

accused threw Kisan Vikas Patra on the informant's face and

told her to get ₹5,00,000/- or else she should not return to her

matrimonial home. The accused told her that she would not be 3 2025:HHC:7452

allowed to meet her children. She was not permitted to go

outside her matrimonial home. Her sisters-in-law used to

accompany her if ever she went out of her matrimonial home.

The informant's husband and his relatives used to say that she

had an illicit relationship with her brother-in-law. The accused

used to say that the ornaments given to her were quite small and

no ornaments were given to her sisters-in-law. The informant's

husband, her parents-in-law and her sisters-in-law asked her

many times to bring money from her parents. The informant's

father handed over the money two times. The informant went to

her parental home on 11.10.2021 with Suchita, the driver and her

daughter. She was dropped at Shalaghat by her sister-in-law.

The informant called her brother, who took her to her parental

home. The informant fell ill and whenever she called her

husband, her phone was not picked up. She was also not allowed

to talk to her children. The accused threatened to falsely

implicate the parents and sisters of the informant. The police

registered the F.I.R. and conducted the investigation. A charge

sheet was filed before the Court of learned Additional Judicial

Magistrate, First Class-II, Sundernagar, District Mandi, H.P.

after completion of the investigation 4 2025:HHC:7452 3. Being aggrieved from the registration of the F.I.R.

and filing of the charge sheet, the petitioners have filed the

present petition asserting that the informant had left her

matrimonial home on her own. She had given a stereo-typed

version. No specific allegations giving particulars of offence and

date of incident were given. The continuation of the

proceedings is an abuse of the process of the Court. The F.I.R.

was lodged after the six years of the marriage. The petitioners

treated the informant cordially and they never harassed her.

The criminal proceedings have been initiated with mala fide

intention to harass the petitioners. The informant had not made

any complaint to Pardhan or the Police after 2015. The

informant is residing with her parents on her own. Therefore, it

was prayed that the present petition be allowed and F.I.R. and

consequential proceedings arising out of the same be quashed. 4. The petition is opposed by respondent / State by

filing a reply making preliminary submissions regarding lack of

maintainability, the F.I.R. discloses the commission of a

heinous offence and the present petition having been filed with

ulterior motives. The contents of the F.I.R. were reproduced. It

was asserted that the statements of witnesses recorded by the 5 2025:HHC:7452

police supported the informant's allegations. Informant was

called 'Pahadan'. She was abandoned at Shalaghat. Her father

paid ₹25,000/- after three-four months of her marriage and

₹50,000/- after three-four years of marriage. An additional

demand of ₹5,00,000/- was also made by the petitioners. The

petitioners ill-treated the informant. A charge sheet has been

filed before the competent Court and there is every likelihood of

the petitioners getting convicted. Therefore, it was prayed that

the present petition be dismissed. 5. I have heard Mr. Arvind Sharma, learned counsel for

the petitioners and Mr. Jitender K. Sharma, learned Additional

Advocate General for the respondent/State. 6. Mr. Arvind Sharma, learned counsel for the

petitioners submitted that the petitioners are innocent and they

were falsely implicated by the informant. She is residing in her

parental home voluntarily. The allegations made by her in the

F.I.R. are vague and do not contain any specific particulars. A

charge sheet filed on such vague allegations will not result in the

conviction of the accused. The continuation of the proceedings

amounts to an abuse of process of the Court. Therefore, he 6 2025:HHC:7452

prayed that the present petition be allowed and F.I.R. and

consequential proceedings arising out of the same be quashed.

He relied upon judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

Kahkashan Kausar alias Sonam v. State of Bihar ( 2022) 6 SCC 599

and Dara Lakshmi Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 3682 in support of his submission. 7. Mr. Jitender K. Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

General submitted that the F.I.R. contains sufficient details of

the harassment by the petitioners. The police conducted the

investigation and the allegations made by the informant were

duly supported by the witnesses. The police found sufficient

reasons to file a chare-sheet and the matter is pending before

the competent Court. The truthfulness or otherwise of the

allegations is a matter of trial and this Court should not quash

the proceedings without allowing the prosecution to prove the

allegations during the trial. Hence, he prayed that the present

petition be dismissed. 8. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

mdeat the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 7 2025:HHC:7452 9. The law relating to quashing of FIR was exhaustively

explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in B.N. John v. State of

U.P. , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 7 as under: - 2025:HHC:7452

 In clause (1) it has been mentioned that where the
 allegations made in the first information report or the
 complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and
 accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute
 any offence or make out a case against the accused, then
 the FIR or the complaint can be quashed. As per clause (4), where the allegations in the FIR do not
 constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-
 cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
 police officer without an order dated by the Magistrate as
 contemplated under Section 155 (2) of the CrPC, and in
 such a situation, the FIR can be quashed. Similarly, as provided under clause (6), if there is an
 express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of
 the CrPC or the concerned Act under which the criminal
 proceedings are instituted, such proceeding can be
 quashed." 10. This position was reiterated in Ajay Malik v. State of

Uttarakhand , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 185 wherein it was observed: 11. The present petition is to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 12. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC 184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 286: 13. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false

implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It

was observed: 14. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana , 2024

SCC OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person to face

criminal allegations without any specific instance of criminal

misconduct amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court. It

was observed: 15. It was further held that in matrimonial disputes, the

parents, including the close relatives, make a mountain out of a

molehill, and every matrimonial conduct amounting to nuisance

does not constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 16. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v.

State of A.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the

phenomena of false implication by general omnibus allegation

in the case of matrimonial dispute are not unknown to the Court.

When the allegations are general and omnibus, the prosecution

should not be continued. It was observed: - 17. Considering the dicta in Mahmood Ali (supra), we find
 that the High Court, in this case, has failed to exercise due
 care and has mechanically permitted the criminal
 proceedings to continue despite specifically finding that
 the allegations are general and omnibus in nature. The
 Appellants herein approached the High Court on inter
 alia grounds that the proceedings were re-initiated on
 vexatious grounds and even highlighted the
 commencement of divorce proceedings by Respondent
 No. 2. In these peculiar circumstances, the High Court had
 a duty to consider the allegations with great care and
 circumspection so as to protect against the danger of
 unjust prosecution." 17. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 2621 that general and vague allegations of cruelty

made against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
SCC 184, this court observed that: xxxx 12. The complaint also refers to a small incident where
the complainant's brother accompanied her to the
matrimonial house when appellants no. 1 and 3 are
alleged to have refused to take her back, but on
persuasion by her brother, she was allowed to stay. There
is also a vague allegation that, when the complainant 18 2025:HHC:7452

gave birth to a second child, appellants 1 and 2 came
and "quarrelled" with the complainant, her brother, and
her parents and threatened them. This Court had occasion
to examine the phenomenon of general and omnibus
allegations in the cases of matrimonial disputes. In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC
OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: xxxx
13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,
this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when
parties are forced to go through tribulations of a trial
based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant
portion of the observation is as under: Furthermore, no specific and distinct allegations
 have been made against either of the appellants
 herein, i.e. none of the appellants have been
 attributed any specific role in furtherance of the
 general allegations made against them. This simply
 leads to a situation wherein one fails to ascertain
 the role played by each accused in furtherance of
 the offence. The allegations are, therefore, general
 and omnibus and can, at best, be said to have been
 made out on account of small skirmishes...
 However, as far as the appellants are concerned, the
 allegations made against them, being general and
 omnibus, do not warrant prosecution. 21. ...it would be unjust if the appellants are forced
 to go through the tribulations of a trial, i.e. general
 and omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a
 situation where the relatives of the complainant's
 husband are forced to undergo trial. It has been
 highlighted by this Court in varied instances that a
 criminal trial leading to an eventual acquittal also
 inflicts severe scars upon the accused, and such an
 exercise must, therefore, be discouraged." 18. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi

Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682,

wherein it was observed: 20. In the present case, the informant has specifically

mentioned in her complaint made to the police that her

husband, her mother-in-law Veena Mahajan, her father-in-law

Sushil Mahajan, her sisters-in-law Ruchita, Suchita and Sumila

started picking fault in her work. They used to say the informant

was 'Pahadan' and did not know household chores, the

informant did not know how to cook the food and that her

parents had not taught her anything. She further stated that

Ruchita, Suchita and Sumila used to harass her for doing the

household chores and say that nothing was provided to the

informant by her parents. They threw Kisan Vikas Patra of

₹1,00,000/-and demanded ₹5,00,000/-. She also stated that her

husband and other family members did not allow her to go

outside her matrimonial home. Her sisters-in-law used to

accompany her if ever she went out of her matrimonial home.

Her parents-in-law used to say that the size of the ornaments

handed over to her was quite small and no ornaments were

given to their daughters. She stated that her husband, her 24 2025:HHC:7452

parents-in-law and sisters-in-law asked her to bring the

money. Her father had provided money on two occasions, she

mentioned that on 11.10.2021 she was going to her parental

home with Suchita, who dropped her at Shalaghat and she had

to call her brother. 21. These allegations are quite specific. They mention

the role of each of the accused and the harassment meted out to

the informant. Merely because the particulars of date and time

were not mentioned is not sufficient to say that allegations are

general. The charge sheet shows that allegations made by the

informant are duly corroborated by her parents, who stated that

₹25,000/- was provided after 3-4 months of the marriage. The

informant handed over this money to her husband. The

informant's father also provided ₹ 50,000/- 3-4 years before

the date of the date the statement. The informant's brother

stated that she called him on 11.10.2021 to Shalaghat. He took her

from Shalaghat to her parental home. This version is also

corroborated by Sonu Kumar, the driver. 22. It was submitted that false allegations were made by

the informant because she is residing in her parental home and 25 2025:HHC:7452

does not want to reside in her matrimonial home. This Court

cannot determine the truthfulness or falsity of the allegations

because it is a matter of trial to be adjudicated by the learned

Trial Court where the matter is pending. This position was laid

down in Maneesha Yadav v. State of U.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 643

wherein it was held: - 23. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dharambeer Kumar Singh v. State of Jharkhand , (2025) 1 SCC 392: 24. Hence, it is not permissible for the Court to go into

the truthfulness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR. 25. A charge sheet has been filed before the Court. The

learned Trial Court is seized of the matter. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Iqbal v. State of U.P. , (2023) 8 SCC

734: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 949 that when the charge sheet has been

filed, learned Trial Court should be left to appreciate the same. It

was observed: 26. The FIR discloses the commission of a cognizable

offence, and it cannot be quashed at this stage. 27. Consequently, the present petition fails and the same

is dismissed. 28. The observations made hereinbefore shall remain

confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing,

whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 24th March, 2025
 (ravinder)