1. Vide this judgement, this court shall dispose of the aforementioned complaint case filed by
 the complainant namely Prem Prakash Maithani against the accused, namely Surender Singh
 (Proprietor of M/s N.K.Cargo Services), in respect of the dishonour of the cheques bearing
 no. 545434 dated 15.01.2021 for an amount of Rs.45000/- (Rs. Forty five thousand only) and
 no. 545435 dated 25.12.2021 for an amount of Rs. 81,827/- ( Eighty one thousand eight
 hundred and twenty seven only) both drawn on ICICI Bank, South Extn II Branch, New
 Delhi-110024 (hereinafter referred to as the "cheques in question"). 2. Succinctly put, it is the case of the complainant that complainant firm was engaged in the
 business of courier and cargo services and the accused firm had business dealings with the
 complainant's firm against invoices . It is alleged that the accused took courier services from
 the complainant in and around 01.04.2019 to 31.01.2021 and an outstanding amount of
 Rs.1,26,827/- was due against the accused. 3. It is stated by the complainant that to discharge a part of the outsanding liability, the accused
 issued two cheques to the complainant . The First cheque bearing no.545434 dated
 15.01.2021 against courier services for Rs.45,000/- was dishonoured when presented vide
 return memo dated 19.01.2021 for the reasons 'funds insufficient'. That the complainant
 contacted the accused and he requested that the cheque be presented again on 25.01.2021
 with the second cheque in question bearing no.545435 dated 25.01.2021 for Rs.81,827/-.
 However again the first cheque and second cheque were dishonoured with remarks
 'insufficient funds'. Thereafter the complainant tried to contact the accused but accused did
 not respond to the telephone calls. 4. Then the complainant issued a legal notice dated 03.02.2021 by speed post with respect to
 dishonour of cheques calling upon the accused to pay the cheque amounts within 15 days
 from the receipt of the notice. Notice was duly served upon the accused but despite that
 accused did not comply with the same. CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 2 of 14 5. Since the accused failed to pay the amount of the cheques in question within the statutory
 period of 15 days from the receipt of legal demand notice, hence, the complainant has moved
 this court with the present complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,
 1881 (hereinafter referred to as the " NI Act "). PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE COURT
 PRE-SUMMONING EVIDENCE: 6. That in order to prove a prima-facie case, the Complainant led pre-summoning evidence by
 way of affidavit i.e., Ex. CW-1/A wherein the Complainant affirmed the facts stated in the
 present complaint and relied upon the following documents: CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 3 of 14
 NOTICE U/S- 251 CR.P.C: Ld. Counsel for the complainant has relied on the following judgments:- LEGAL POSITION: Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. Vs. Pennar Peterson Securities Ltd. AIR 2000 SC 954,
Delivered by Honorable Division Bench of Justice K.T.Thomas & Justice D.P.Mohapatra,
Supreme Court of India on 30-03-2011.*modified in consonance with the amendments brought
subsequent to the judgement dated 23.02.2000 in the NI Act . CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 6 of 14 (c) that the cheque has been returned by the drawee bank unpaid, either
 for the reason that the amount of money standing to the credit of that
 account is insufficient to honour the cheque or that it exceeds the amount
 arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with that
 bank; (d) that the payee or the holder in due course of the cheque has made a
 demand for the payment of the said amount of money by giving a notice in
 writing, to the drawer of the cheque, within 30 days of the receipt of
 information from the bank regarding the return of the cheque as unpaid; (e) that the drawer of such cheque fails to make the payment of the said
 amount of money to the payee or holder in due course within 15 days of
 receipt of the said notice. 17. That the legal requirements mentioned hereinabove are cumulative in nature, i.e. only upon
 fulfilment of all the aforementioned ingredients, the drawer of the cheque is deemed to have
 committed an offence under s. 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. 18. The provision of Sec.138 is further supported by Sec.139 and Sec.118 of the Act. Sec. 139 of
 the Act provides presumption in favour of the Complainant and mandates that the court shall
 presume, that the holder of a cheque received the cheque of the nature referred to in Sec.138 for the discharge, wholly or in part of any debt or other liability. Sec.118 of the Act provides
 presumptions as to negotiable instruments; that the court shall presume, until the contrary is
 proved, that every negotiable instrument was made or drawn for consideration, and that every
 such instrument, when it has been accepted, indorsed, negotiated or transferred, was accepted,
 indorsed, negotiated or transferred for consideration. 19. Elaborating further on this point, the Apex Court in Basalingappa v. Mudibasappa2 summarised the law. The following was laid down in para 25: (SCC p. 433-434)
 "25. We have noticed the ratio laid down by this Court in the above cases
 on sections 118(a) and 139 , we now summarise the principles enumerated 2 (2019) 5 SCC 418; Delivered by Honorable Division Bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan &
Justice K.M.Joseph, Supreme Court of India on 09-04-2019. CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 7 of 14
 by this Court in following manner: The same is evident by the language used, i.e., "Shall Presume". However, the said
 presumptions are in the nature of rebuttable presumptions, i.e. it is open for the defence to
 shift the onus on the Complainant by raising a probable/ plausible defence. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE AND FINDINGS: CW-1/7) indicating "Funds Insufficient." The defence has presented no contrary evidence;
 hence, these ingredients stand established against the Accused. 23. That it is a trite law that in order to maintain a complaint u/s-138 NI Act , serving of legal
 demand notice to the Accused before filing the case is imperative. As regards the service of
 legal demand notice, the Complainant has dispatched the same, Ex.CW-1/8 dated 03.02.2021
 to the Accused. Original postal receipt Ex. CW-1/9 and tracking report Mark A corroborate
 this. 24. That Section 27 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, and section 114 of the Indian Evidence
 Act, 1872, support the presumption of effective service when a document is sent by registered
 post unless proven otherwise. The Accused denied the receipt of the legal demand notice of
 the complainant in notice u/s-251 Cr.P.C however, admitted his address as mentioned on the
 same to be correct. The receipt of the legal demand notice was also denied by the accused in
 his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. However, minute perusal of the record reveals that the address
 furnished by the Accused at the time of recording of his statement u/s-313 Cr.P.C read with
 sec-281 Cr.P.C is same as the one mentioned on the legal demand notice. Furthermore, the
 mere denial of having received the legal demand notice by the Accused does not invalidate its
 service, especially in view of the precedent set by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in C.C.Alavi
 Haji vs. Palapetty Muhammed [2007 (6) SCC 555] ; wherein it has been categorically held
 that a person who does not pay the amount of cheque within 15 days of receipt of the
 summons from the Court along with a copy of the complaint under Section 138 of the Act,
 cannot contend that there was no proper service of notice as required under Section 138 . In

CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 9 of 14
 view thereof, since the Accused did not make any payment upon service in the present matter,
 he cannot take plea of non-service of legal demand notice. Reply to the legal demand notice
 received on the email of the complainant i.e. Mark B and Mark C further show that the legal
 demand notice was received by the accused. Consequently, the Accused has not successfully
 rebutted the presumption of service of the legal demand notice. Resultantly, the fourth
 ingredient stands fulfilled as against the Accused. 25. The fifth ingredient also stands satisfied against the Accused as in the instant case, it is an
 admitted position that the Accused has failed to pay the amount due under the cheque in
 question, on the ground that he does not owe any liability towards the Complainant. 26. In view of the above, the only point for determination in the present matter remains is that of
 existence of legally enforceable debt or liability for which the cheque in question was issued
 by the Accused, i.e., the first ingredient. 27. At the outset, the alleged liability of the Accused stems from the issuance of the cheque in
 question, to the Complainant in discharge of his legal liability i.e., towards the payment of the
 invoices raised by the complainant for the courier services provided to the accused. It is
 pertinent to note that the Accused admitted his signature on the cheque in question and that
 the same is drawn on his firm's bank account. He denied filling the body of the cheque in
 question. In a recent judgement titled as Rajesh Jain v. Ajay Singh, SLP Crl. No. 12802 of
 2022, the Apex court held as following: (2019) 4 SCC 197

CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 10 of 14 28. Applying the ratio of the above-said judgement, the undisputed execution of the cheque in
 question and the legal principles previously discussed leads to an inference under Section 139 read with Section 118 of the Act. This presumption suggests that the cheque was issued for
 settling a legally enforceable debt or liability owed to the Complainant. With this presumption
 raised against the Accused, the onus shifts to him to counteract it by presenting a plausible
 defence. To this end, despite ample opportunity being given to the accused, he chose not to
 cross examine the complainant and his right for the cross examination of the complainant was
 closed. The fundamental issue to be addressed is whether the Accused has effectively put
 forward a credible defence to overturn the presumption against him. 29. It is the case of the complainant that the accused had taken Courier services from the
 complainant and an outstanding amount of Rs. 1,26,827/- was due to the complainant by the
 accused in lieu of the two invoices issued by the complainant. It is submitted by the
 complainant that in discharge of this liability the two cheques in question were issued by the
 accused. However it is denied by the accused that he owed any liability towards the
 complainant, instead he took the defence that the cheques in question were issued for purpose
 of security for continuing future business and Rs.1,54,000/- had already been paid to the
 complainat through acheque. 30. For corroborating the complaint, consistent testimony regarding the key elements of the
 transaction with the Accused is essential to be provided by CW-1 (the Complainant) and in
 the instant case, since the accused did not cross examine the complainant despite sufficient
 opportunity, nothing could be elicited from the Complainant that could significantly
 undermine his reliability or impeach his credibility. 31. The defence taken by the accused that the cheques in question were security cheques issued to
 the complainant is of no aid to him. Reliance in this regard is placed by this court on the
 judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Sampelly Satyanarayana Rao Vs. Indian
 Renewable Energy Development Agency Ltd. , (2016) 10 SCC 458, Sripati Singh Vs.
 State of Jharkhand & Anr., 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1002 and Sunil Todi Vs. State of
 Gujarat & Anr., 2021 SCC OnLine SC1174 wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has held

CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 11 of 14
 that merely because a cheque has been given for security purposes does not mean that there is
 no legally enforceable debt or liability in favour of the complainant, however, it does mean
 that the court has to see whether there exists legally enforceable debt or liability as on the
 date mentioned on the cheque or whether a legally enforceable debt or liability has arisen at
 the time of presentation of the cheque. It has been held by the Hon'ble Court that the accused
 would very much be liable under Section138 NI Act for issuance of a security cheque as well,
 if on the date of the presentation of such cheque there has not been a prior discharge of debt,
 or if the cheque has not been given towards advance payment, the goods in respect of which
 have not been received, or if there has been change in circumstances which precludes the
 complainant from depositing the cheque with the bank. 32. Thus, the legal position that emerges is that simply pleading the cheque in question to have
 been given as a security cheque shall not in itself be sufficient to discharge the burden caste
 upon the accused by law. The accused must also further establish that there was no liability of
 the accused on the date when the cheque was presented for encashment. 33. The Accused also took the defence that he had already paid Rs. 1,54,000/- in lieu of his
 liability towards the complainant through cheque. However, except oral testimony of the
 Accused in this regard, there is nothing on record to substantiate the said claim of the
 Accused. More so, the testimony of the Accused does not inspire much confidence of this
 court as he has taken contrary stands qua his liability towards the complainant at different
 stages of the trial. At the time of the framing of the notice u/s 251 CrPC, the accused denied
 having any liability towards the complainant. However a different version was given by him at
 the time of the recording of his statement u/s 313 r/w S.281 of Cr.P.C . It was stated that Rs.
 1,26,827/- were due against him and the same had not been paid by him to the complainant.
 The liability towards the complainant was hence admitted by the accused. 34. During the final arguments the Ld. Counsel for the accused had argued that due to defective
 services offered by the complainant and non delivery of the goods of the accused, the accused
 owed no liability towards the complainant. No mention of this fact was made by the accused
 at the time of the framing of the notice against him and at any other stage of the trial. In the

CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 12 of 14
 statement under section 313 Crpc the accused had also stated that a fraud had been
 committed against him by the complainant for Rs. 81,827/-. However the accused has neither
 brought on record any cogent evidence in the form of any steps taken by him to raise his
 concerns in respect of the faulty courier service and the non delivery of goods to the
 complainant , nor has he been able to show in what manner, the fraud if any, was committed
 upon him. Non issuance of stop payment instructions to the bank also causes doubt to
 lurk around the story of the accused. He thus failed to adduce any credible evidence to
 show that he indeed did everything within his power and control, as a reasonable and prudent
 person would, to ensure that the cheques in question issued by him were not misused. 35. It appears that no payment through a cheque was made to the complainant by the accused and
 no such fraud was committed upon him as alleged. Mere denial of the case of the
 Complainant with oral averments, supported by no documents or evidence, leave alone,
 cogent one is not going to assume any evidentiary value and averments in notice of accusation
 and in his examination under Sec-313 Cr.P.C read with Sec-281 Cr.P.C would not assume the
 character of defence evidence as mere denial is not sufficient. . Reliance in this regard is
 placed upon the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in V.S. Yadav Vs. Reena , (2010)
 172 DLT 561. The Accused himself admitted his liability towards the complainant and the
 fact of not having made any payment towards it. Furthermore, he failed to cross examine the
 complainant and to produce any evidence which further creates doubt around the story of the
 accused. In addition to above, on holistic consideration of the record, it is apparent on the
 face of the record that no credibility can be perceived in the defence attempted to be set up by
 the Accused. 36. When considering these points as outlined, the evidence presented on behalf of the
 Complainant gains credibility and instils confidence in the Court regarding the material
 aspects of the Complaint. The narrative of the Complainant remains consistent, coherent and
 appealing. 37. In conclusion, the Accused's admission of his signature on the cheque is pivotal, and when
 combined with the presumption raised under Sections 118 and 139 of the Negotiable

CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 13 of 14
 Instruments Act, all the necessary elements of Section 138 of the same Act have been
 adequately established by the case of the Complainant. The Accused has failed to meet the
 burden of proof, failing to provide convincing evidence that tilts the balance of probabilities
 in his favor. Consequently, the presumption raised against the Accused remains unchallenged
 and stands firm. 38. The culmination of the above analysis leads to the conclusion that all the essential elements
 required under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act are satisfactorily met with
 respect to the Accused. FINAL ORDER 39. In view of the above-discussion, considering all the facts and circumstances, material/
 evidence on record, as all the ingredients of the offence have been cumulatively satisfied
 against the Accused, the Accused, Surender Singh (Proprietor of M/s N.K.Cargo
 Services) is hereby convicted of the offence u/s 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act,
 1881. 40. Copy of this judgment be given to the convict free of cost as per rules. 41. Convict be now heard on the quantum of sentence. (Nishtha Mehtani)
 JMFC (NI Act ), (Digital Court- 03)
 /PHC/ND
 Announced in open court
 on 19.02.2025

CC No 1747/2021 Prem Parkash Maithani Vs N K Cargo Services 14 of 14