1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant as well as learned Additional Government Advocate representing the State. 2. The instant bail application under Section 483 of B.N.S.S. has been filed on behalf of the applicant with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 535 of 2024, under Sections 64(2)(m), 123, 351(2), 333 of B.N.S., Police Station Chhata, District Mathura, during the pendency of trial. 3. As per prosecution case, in brief, victim got a first information report lodged on 08.11.2024 against the applicant and 2-3 unknown persons for the alleged offence under Sections 64(2)(m), 123, 351(2) and 333 Bhartiya Nayana Sanhita (B.N.S), 2023 making allegations inter alia that the applicant, who was the friend of her husband, used to come to her house for the last two years, but he used to see the victim with a bad intention. He often comes to her house in the absence of her husband. One day, when her husband had gone for work and children went to the school and she was alone in the house, the applicant came to her house with a bottle of cold drink and offered the cold drink to the complainant. On drinking the same, she became unconscious, thereafter the applicant after disrobing her, committed rape upon her and clicked her obscene photographs and made video. When she regained consciousness, she was very much scared. Thereafter, on the basis of the said nude photographs and video, he started blackmailing her and made physical relation with her several times. On 01.06.2024, he came to her house and forcibly made her to sit in a car, took her to Mathura and obtained her signature on several papers on the point of threat to get the said photographs and video viral. He also threatened to eliminate her husband. Thereafter, she narrated the entire happenings to her husband and made a complaint to the police, but no action was taken. The F.I.R. further alleged that on 30.09.2024, when her husband was not at home and she was alone, the applicant along with 2-3 unknown persons came to her house and took her to a restaurant and committed rape on her. 4. Main substratum of argument of learned counsel for the applicant is that the victim is married lady and mother of five children, and she was having extramarital affair with the applicant. In order to show consensual relationship, learned counsel for the applicant pointed out that some amount of money has also been transferred by the applicant in the account of the victim on 11.10.2023 and 12.03.2024. Much emphasis has been given by contending that it is not a case of rape but a case of consensual relation between the parties concerned. When victim's husband came to know about the illicit relation of the victim with the applicant then at his instance, F.I.R. was lodged. Referring the statement of hotel owner, it is also pointed out that he, during the course of investigation, has stated inter alia that victim along with the applicant came to his hotel twice and no other person was with them and she did not make any complaint with regard to any forceful act of the applicant, which also reflects that victim was consenting party with the applicant. It is also submitted that no video or photograph has been collected by the Investigating Officer. Lastly, it is submitted by learned counsel for the applicant that there is no chance of the applicant of fleeing away from the judicial process or tampering with the prosecution evidence. The applicant is languishing in jail since 10.11.2024 having no criminal history to his credit and in case he is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail and will cooperate in the early disposal of the case. 5. On the other hand, learned Additional Government Advocate for the State opposed the prayer for bail of the applicant but could not dispute the above factual aspect of the matter as argued on behalf of the applicant. 6. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and examined the matter in its entirety, I find that it is not in dispute that victim is married lady and is mother of five children. After the first incident of alleged forceful rape on her by the applicant, she has not made complaint and again went to Mathura along with the applicant, whereas she was mature enough to understand the significance and morality of the act for which she was consenting with the applicant. I also find that even after making complaint to police by the husband of victim, she went with the applicant and made physical relation with him and she denied for her medical examination. 7. Considering the facts and other attending circumstances of the case, possibility of consensual relation of the victim with the applicant cannot be ruled out, therefore, the applicant has made out a case for bail. Hence, the bail application is hereby allowed. 8. Let the applicant-Mukesh, be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions: 8. In case of breach of any of the conditions mentioned above, court concerned will be at liberty to cancel the bail of the applicant. 9. It is made clear that the observations contained in the instant order are confined to the issue of bail only and shall not affect the merit of the trial. Order Date :- 7.1.2025
 
Ishrat