We missed this earlier: The Delhi High Court has urged the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to take “proactive steps” to address the issue of blanket freezing of bank accounts in cybercrime cases. Following considerations from various stakeholders, the ministry must develop a uniform policy, standard operating procedures (SOPs), and guidelines to tackle the issue, the Court added.

Justice Manoj Jain outlined these suggestions, noting a flurry of petitions highlighting similar concerns in courts. Justice Jain acknowledged the competence of investigating agencies but criticized them for failing to disclose reasons for freezing accounts.

The judgment was in response to a petition filed by Neelkanth Pharma Logistics Private Limited against HDFC Bank, the RBI, and the Union of India. The matter dates back to November 2024, when HDFC Bank froze Neelkanth Pharma’s bank account based on a direction by the Vartaknagar Police Station in Thane, Maharashtra. The freeze order was issued due to a ₹200 credit transaction into the petitioner’s bank account, despite the account holding a withdrawable balance of ₹93.50 crore.

Upon reviewing the evidence, the court found no connection between the ongoing police investigation and the petitioner. It added that in cases of cybercrime, if fraudsters cheat a complainant and utilize the cheated money to purchase anything, the police, in following the money trail, freeze all the bank accounts concerned, leading many “innocent recipients to bear the brunt, for no fault of theirs.” The Court explained that the blanket account freeze caused ‘adverse financial consequences’ for the petitioner, including the dishonouring of several cheques, which disrupted its business operations. Further, the Court suggested police authorities mark a ‘lien’ on the disputed amount as an interim measure, mitigating undue hardship for account holders while ensuring that the allegedly defrauded money remains secure.

Since the debit freeze had already been lifted and the petitioner no longer wished to pursue the case, the Court dismissed the petition.

The Court also noted several similar petitions and the subsequent observations made during their judgements:

The case related to the freezing of the bank account of a Chhole-Bhature vendor for an alleged cyber-fraud of ₹105. Here, the Court observed that such an order undermines the petitioner’s right to livelihood, and thereby, the Right to Life under Article 21 of the Constitution. Additionally, the Court questioned the need to freeze the petitioner’s entire account when the investigating agency had already identified the disputed transaction amount.

In this case, the Telangana State Cyber Security Bureau requested to freeze the petitioner’s bank account at HDFC Bank for a year while investigating a cryptocurrency case, and the account user remained unaware of the reason for the freeze, The Hindu reported . Notably, Justice G. Jayachandran ruled that police cannot freeze bank accounts indefinitely without informing account holders of the specific reasons.

In this particular case filed before the Kerala High Court, the bank accounts of several traders were immobilized due to suspected participation in cyber fraud. Specifically, the fraudsters used the Unified Payment Interface (UPI) to transfer money into the petitioners’ accounts. Ultimately, the Court observed that based on the principles of proportionality and fairness, banks must restrict freezing orders to the precise sums identified in the offence rather than the entirety of the bank account.

In this case, the Jharkhand High Court examined the procedure followed by the Gujarat police in cases of cybercrime concerning the recovery/freezing of defrauded money and subsequently directed the preparation of SOPs to deal with such instances.

Authorities can issue such orders under Section 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), 1973, which deals with the police’s power to seize certain property. Notably, when seizing property under suspicion of theft, the police officer must report the action to a jurisdictional Judicial Magistrate. In the State of Maharashtra vs Tapas D. Neogy case , the Supreme Court stated that this provision included bank accounts as “property,” and authorities could freeze them in cases having direct links with the commission of the offence.

Currently, Section 102 of the CrPC has been replaced with Section 106 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS), 2023.

According to a LinkedIn post by Supreme Court Advocate Sudhir Rao, while the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) doesn’t directly freeze bank accounts, it stipulates guidelines for banks to follow during the process. To explain, banks must inform customers about the reason behind the action (unless barred by law), the expected duration of the freeze, and the process for lifting the restrictions, alongside any other communication. Previously, amid the surge in losses due to cyber fraud, the RBI planned to enable banks to temporarily freeze accounts suspected of cybercrime, Reuters reported . The move stemmed from banks’ inability to freeze accounts without a police-registered crime report—a process that can be lengthy—which, according to government sources, has allowed fraudsters to move funds quickly before authorities can intervene.

As highlighted by the cases above, banks often freeze third-party accounts that have no material connection with particular investigations. Moving forward, previous cases also tackled the question of whether the investigating agency can freeze the bank accounts of petitioners not accused of any crime under Section 102 of the CrPC. Notably, in the Rohan Ashok Jagdale and Ors. vs. The Police Station Officer and Ors. case 2015, the Judge upheld the freezing of such bank accounts when the petitioner had “parked” the amount in the account. Other judgments have reinforced this view, stating that authorities can freeze bank accounts under ‘suspicion of an offence’ but must exercise ‘strong suspicion’ with ‘utmost restraint’.

As highlighted by the cases above, banks often freeze third-party accounts that have no material connection with particular investigations. Previous cases have also tackled the question of whether the investigating agency can freeze the bank accounts of petitioners not accused of any crime under Section 102 of the CrPC. Notably, in the Rohan Ashok Jagdale and Ors. vs The Police Station Officer and Ors. case (2015), the judge upheld the freezing of such bank accounts when the petitioner had “parked” the amount in the account. Other judgments have reinforced this view, stating that authorities can freeze bank accounts under ‘suspicion of an offence’ but must exercise ‘strong suspicion’ with ‘utmost restraint.’

MediaNama’s Editor Nikhil Pahwa adds, “Essentially, a policy conundrum of freezing bank accounts quickly in cases of fraud, where fraudsters funnel money out and transfer it from one bank account to another, is that the police need to act quickly to freeze accounts to ensure that money stolen through UPI fraud doesn’t get lost in the system of jumping from one account to another. This exists at odds with the idea of ensuring that you’re not harming someone with a legitimate account. Therefore, it’s a matter of speed versus accuracy and clarity, calling for the establishment of a set of guidelines to prevent erroneous harm to people’s accounts, preventing them from making legitimate transactions. However, the very idea of determining the legitimacy of a transaction and ensuring that it isn’t a mule account takes time, and therein lies the conundrum—one needs speed to freeze bank accounts while, at the same time, ensuring accuracy to prevent harm to legitimate users.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event