SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Should we report to the national cybersecurity cell?
DATE: 2022-02-15
SCORE: 60
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ssreaa/should_we_report_to_the_national_cybersecurity/

--- POST TEXT ---

My cousin (19F) seems to have become a victim of some elaborate cyber scam. 
She was contacted by this woman via LinkedIn who's profile shows that she is currently a product manager of Zara ( has worked for Myntra, Amazon etc previously, passed from NIFT &amp; what not) and lives in the USA. 
They started talking and she led my cousin to believe that she is looking for students (like my sister) for paid freelance modelling jobs ( and for various other roles as mentioned in her linkdin profile). And at 1st my cousin didn't think much about it &amp; shared her 100+ pictures and few videos ( as that lady asked for) 
But that lady kept coaxing her to send more pictures which are more exposed &amp; bold, then my sister felt something was not right &amp; got scared and blocked the phone number. And when we got the number checked we found out that, it belongs to some guy. 

We also checked her FB and Instagram account which are locked, (same info everywhere, but insta has only 3 post (private profile) doesn't seem real)

But it didn't end here, the person again texted my cousin from some international number, which shows that it's a business account number and location is turned on, which shows the location is in Newyork.
Now, We don't understand if that is actually some business account ( though linkdin account doesn't seem to be active at all) , but can one living in India get international number like this, or is it multiple people doing this, and though it seems non threatening for now, is there a possibility of something worse happening.
We are afraid of identity theft and that more people might get scammed using her pictures and videos, also we are not sure if something worse than that can be done.
Should we report to the national cybersecurity cell India? Will we be in trouble if we are misunderstanding the whole situation &amp; she's actually for real (we are 98 % sure that it's fishy and the seemingly real accounts are created for scamming innocent people) 

Please be kind and help by providing knowledge or information if you have any.