The Indian government has sent a whitelist of approved digital lending apps to app stores (like Google Play Store and Apple App Store), the Finance Ministry revealed on February 7 in response to a parliamentary question.

“Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has furnished the list of Digital Lending Apps (DLAs) being used by Regulated Entities (REs) of RBI to the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), which in turn, has shared the list with respective intermediary (App Stores) and requested them to ensure that only the apps figuring in the list are hosted on their app stores,” the Finance Ministry stated.

The Finance Ministry had first indicated its plans for such a whitelist back in September 2023 but didn’t provide any updates thereafter. It is not clear when exactly the IT Ministry sent the list to app stores and whether the app stores have acted upon it. We also don’t know which apps feature on this whitelist. MediaNama has filed an RTI requesting more details.

Why does this matter:Â Unauthorised digital lending apps have flooded the app stores and they target vulnerable Indian borrowers, charging them exorbitant interest rates, and resorting to extortion and blackmail tactics to collect repayments. In light of this, the Indian government issued digital lending guidelines Â in August 2022 that address some concerns, but a whitelist of legal apps is a far more significant step because it effectively disallows any lending app that is not approved by the RBI.

RBI sought details from regulated entities to make the whitelist: In a press conference on February 8,Â RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that the central bank asked non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) to submit a list of apps being operated by them, which was then passed on to the Finance Ministry, Economic Times reported.

IT Ministry’s recent ban of 94 lending apps: On February 5, the IT Ministry blocked 138 betting apps and 94 loan lending apps that reportedly have Chinese links. But it soon emerged that non-Chinese apps like PayU’s Lazypay were also targeted. It is not clear if the whitelist is connected in any way to this ban and if apps like Lazypay were banned because they don’t appear on the whitelist. Following this ban, the fintech industry has scrambled to get clarity from the IT Ministry, Finance Ministry, and the RBI.

Are app stores required to act on the list: Â There is no law that requires Google Play Store and Apple App Store to ensure that only lending apps on the whitelist are allowed on their platforms. To legally require app stores to take down apps, the Indian government must issue orders under Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000, as it did when it banned the 94 apps. The whitelist probably serves more as a guide to app stores.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event