1. By this common judgment, I shall decide the above­stated two
 revision petitions under Section 397/399 Cr. P. C. directed

CR No.257/18 Amit Vishnoi Vs. Mansi Maini & Anr. against the order dated 21.08.2018 passed by the Ld. ACMM
 (West) in case Complaint Case No.1536/2018 whereby directing
 the SHO PS Patel Nagar to register an FIR against the
 petitioners and to investigate the matter. 2. The brief background relevant for the disposal of the revision
 petition is that on 13.03.2018, the complainant instituted the
 complaint case under Section 200 Cr.P.C. alleging commission of
 offences under Section 420 /494/495/120B/ 34 read with Section 138 N. I. Act against the petitioners. Alongwith the complaint case, an
 application under Section 156(3) CrPC seeking direction to SHO P.S
 Patel Nagar for registration of FIR against the respondents was also
 filed. 2.1 The marriage of the complainant and petitioner Ajay Maini was
 solemnized on 27.10.2013. In the complaint, the
 complainant/respondent no.1 alleged that the petitioner Ajay Maini
 and his family members committed cruelties and violence upon the
 complainant and therefore, the complainant was constrained to take
 legal recourse and filed various cases against them. Subsequently, a
 compromise took place between them on 16.11.2014 and as per the
 said settlement, the complainant and petitioner Ajay Maini agreed to
 take divorce by mutual consent. Pursuant to the said settlement, the
 petitioner Ajay Maini had agreed to make the payment of

CR No.257/18 Amit Vishnoi Vs. Mansi Maini & Anr. Rs.5,25,00,000/­ to the respondent no.1 towards the full and final
 settlement to take all her cases back and for taking divorce by mutual
 consent. Out of the said amount, a sum of Rs.2,85,00,000/­ and
 subsequently on 27.03.2015, a DD amount to Rs.56,25,000/­ were
 handed over by the petitioner Ajay Maini to the complainant before
 the Ld. Principal Judge, Family Courts at the time of recording of
 statement in First Motion Divorce Petition. For the remaining
 payment, a cheque in the sum of Rs.1,83,75,000/­ was issued in
 favour of the complainant by the petitioner Ajay Maini duly signed
 by the petitioner Amit Vishnoi which was dishonoured on
 presentation. It is further alleged that the said cheque was issued by
 the petitioner Amit Vishnoi in conspiracy with petitioner Ajay Maini
 and the same was dishonoured on the reason that the accused Amit
 Vishnoi deliberately had signed in a manner that it does not match
 with the bank records. The complainant submitted that she fulfilled
 the terms of settlement by vacating her matrimonial home bearing
 no.C­22, Sector­50, Noida, U.P. on 22.01.2015; withdrew her
 petition for Domestic Violence Act on 22.01.2015 filed against the
 petitioners; got quashed the FIR No.342/14 under Section
 498A / 504 / 506 / 120B IPC PS Sector­49, District Gautam Budh Nagar
 and got quashed the FIR No.529/14 against Rishi Kapoor and
 Rakshak Kapoor. The complainant submitted that the accused
 persons/petitioners in conspiracy with each has committed cheating

CR No.257/18 Amit Vishnoi Vs. Mansi Maini & Anr. with her. It is further submitted that petitioner Ajay Maini has
 thrown her out from the matrimonial house by committing fraud and
 now he is enjoying his life in the company of other woman. The
 complainant submitted that since the year 2015, the petitioner Ajay
 Maini has not appeared before the Family Courts for second motion.
 Hence, the petitioner was constrained to approach the court.
2.2 Vide the impugned order, the Ld. M. M. directing the SHO PS Patel
 Nagar to register an FIR against the petitioners by observing that: 3. The notice of the revision petition was accepted by the Ld.
Addl. PP for the State/respondent no.2. Notice of the revision petition
was also issued to the respondents no.1. Respondent no.1 made her
appearance through counsel and also filed reply to the revision
petition. 4. The counsel for the petitioners assailed the impugned order
on the grounds that the same is illegal, improper and incorrect; Ld.
ACMM has not appreciated the facts on record and as such has grossly
erred in passing the impugned order which is prima facie contrary to

CR No.257/18 Amit Vishnoi Vs. Mansi Maini & Anr. the provisions of law; Ld. ACMM has grossly erred in not considering
the direct material evidence relating to the settlement; Ld. ACMM has
grossly erred in not considering the fact that there is no violation of
any provisions of law on the ends of the petitioners; Ld. ACMM in its
order observed the contention to the extent that there is ambiguity
regarding the occurrence of the alleged offences but despite that
directed to SHO PS Patel Nagar to register an FIR against the
petitioners without verifying the genuineness of complainants version
and during the inquiry police did not submit in ATR that any case has
made out against the petitioners. The Ld. counsel for the petitioner vehemently argued that
the impugned order passed by the Ld. ACMM is not sustainable in the
eyes of law and it deserves to be set aside. He argued that merely
because the petitioner Ajay Maini did not appear for recording of
second motion in divorce petition, no offence is made out against the
petitioners of cheating. It is further argued that the dispute is merely
civil in nature. The Ld. counsel for the petitioners has also drawn the
attention of the court to the judgments­ (i) Crl. M. C. No.1952 and 1959/2009 titled Manohar Singh &
Ors. v. State & Ors. decided on 10.04.2013 by the Hon'ble High Court
of Delhi; and (ii) Crl. Appeal No.1392/2007 titled Inder Mohan Goswami &

CR No.257/18 Amit Vishnoi Vs. Mansi Maini & Anr. Ors. v. State of Uttaranchal & Ors. passed by Hon'ble Supreme Court
of India. In view of the submissions made and the judgments relied,
the counsel for the petitioners prayed for setting aside the impugned
order. Ld. counsel for respondent no.1 as well as Ld. Addl. PP for
the State/respondent no.2 on the other hand submit that there is no
infirmity or illegality in the impugned order and therefore, no
interference is called for. 5. I have heard Ld. counsel for the petitioners, Ld counsel for
the respondent no.1 and Ld. Addl. PP for the State/respondent no.2 at
length and gone through the trial court record. 6. It is the settled law that when a criminal complaint
disclosing the commission of cognizable offence is laid before a
Magistrate, two courses are open to him. He may either choose to
inquire into the complaint by taking cognizance in exercise of his
power under Section 190 (1) (a) CrPC and proceed to inquire into it in
accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 200 & 202 CrPC.
In the alternative, he may refer the complaint to police under Section
156(3) CrPC for investigation. In the latter case, the further process of

CR No.257/18 Amit Vishnoi Vs. Mansi Maini & Anr. law has to wait till the report under Section 173 CrPC is submitted by
the police. The law governing the choice to be exercised from
amongst the two options has been settled by the Hon'ble High Court of
Delhi in M/s Skipper Beverages Pvt. Ltd. v. State , 2001 IV AD
(Delhi). In the said case, it was held that a Magistrate must apply his
mind before passing an order under Section 156(3) CrPC and must not
pass these orders mechanically on the mere asking of the complainant.
These powers ought to be exercised primarily in those cases where
the allegations are quite serious or evidence is beyond the reach of the
complainant or custodial interrogation appears to be necessary for
some recovery of articles or discovery of facts. 7. Similarly, in Subhkaran Luharaka v. State , (170) 2010
DLT 516, while laying down the procedure to be followed by the
Magistrate while dealing with an application under Section 156(3) CrPC, it was held that before passing any order to proceed under
Chapter XII of the Code on an application under Section 156(3) CrPC,
the Magistrate must also be satisfied that it is necessary to direct
police investigation in the matter for collection of evidence, which is
neither in the possession of the complainant nor can be produced by
the witnesses on being summoned by the court at the instance of the

CR No.257/18 Amit Vishnoi Vs. Mansi Maini & Anr. complainant, and the matter is such which calls for investigation by a
State agency. The Magistrate must pass an order giving cogent reasons
as to why he intends to proceed under Chapter XII instead of Chapter
XV of the Code. 8. Here, it would not be out of place to mention that in Gulab
Chand Upadhyay v. State , (2002) Crl. L.J. 2907, it was held that the
use of word 'may' in Section 156 (3) CrPC in contradistinction to the
word 'shall' in Section 154 CrPC clearly indicates that the Magistrate
has the discretion to refuse the registration of FIR. 9. Thus, the Magistrate is not supposed to act mechanically
and direct the registration of FIR in each and every case in routine and
casual manner. Criminal law is not expected to be set in motion on
mere asking of a party. There has to be some substance in the
complaint filed and if it appears that the allegations are of serious
nature which are required to be investigated by the police, then only an
FIR should be ordered to be registered. 10. I have gone through the impugned order alongwith the
allegations levelled against the petitioners in the application under
Section 156 (3) Cr. P. C. as well as in the complaint. Merely

CR No.257/18 Amit Vishnoi Vs. Mansi Maini & Anr. registration of the FIR does not mean the commission of the offence
and the police has been only directed vide impugned order to
investigate the matter and file the charge sheet as per law. There is no
occasion for the petitioner to assume or presume regarding the
commission of the offence till the charge sheet is filed by the police
after investigation of the matter. Moreover, the petitioners have every
remedy available as per law if the charge sheet is filed. For the
foregoing reasons, I do not find any illegality in the impugned order
whereby the application under Section 156 (3) Cr. P. C. was allowed.
Considering the same, revision petitions are hereby dismissed. 11. Trial Court Record be sent back alongwith the copy of the
judgment. File of revision petitions be consigned to the record room.