SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: 10 Paisa on the Adani controversy that everyone knew
DATE: 2023-01-26
SCORE: 345
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/10lslpd/10_paisa_on_the_adani_controversy_that_everyone/

--- POST TEXT ---

So right now we officially have quite substantial proof about the bullshittery that the adani companies were doing. Having cfos change soo many times as well as looking at their financials, any guy who has done even the basics of Fundamental and industrial analysis could have had a hunch there was something wrong. But after going through this report, holy shit this is quite a crazy source of funds. 

First of all, amazing work done by the investigation team. Almost every detail that could lead to questioning is covered especially with the similar website templates of the promoters as well as links with KP. This is quite a massive blow for whatever credibility Adani companies could salvage. As an investor and risk management specialist, the fact the adani is being audited by literally four people two of whom are like near my age, is a massive governance red flag. 

Let's be honest any serious mutual fund houses didn't have a decent exposure to adani co that could trigger a contagion risk. But unfortunately two of the biggest public sector entities, SBI and LIC have. I haven't checked the actual details of the ownership percentages. But judging by how much of government influence is there in the company, I wouldn't be surprised if it's a scary amount. The report does say that potentially Adani indirectly has more than the permissible legal ownership of atleast 75% but that doesn't mean the suspected entities may not be funded by some backdoor financial agreement.

 SEBI will do nothing because it honestly can't do anything. Even during the satyam scam SEBI was essentially a bunch of intellectual babus blaming everyone else. They are reactive not proactive. The meat and potatoes of this entire drama is simply, is adani too big to fail and has Adani angered the wrong people. If he has angered the wrong people. The current government seems like the type that is extremely defensive of their international image as a safe investment destination, and if this scandal gets the international coverage and if real international investors suffer, it will not be a good time for Adani companies, let alone if local media even covers it.