SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Tejasvi Surya barged into the south bbmp war room, picked all 17 Muslim men from a list of 120 staff, asked officers why they were hired and got them fired.
DATE: 2021-05-05
SCORE: 2279
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/n5dxga/tejasvi_surya_barged_into_the_south_bbmp_war_room/

--- POST TEXT ---

Tejasvi Surya went public with a scam involving bbmp and bed allocation.

But instead, his true target was to scapegoat Muslims and turn away the blame from Bjps failing to Muslims.

https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/bangalore/covid-19-questions-raised-over-veracity-of-bbmp-quota-beds/article34485020.ece

&gt;The group of BJP legislators trying to expose corruption in bed allocation in the south zone, also made communally-loaded statements against those from the minority community working at the war room.

&gt;Tejasvi Surya, Bengaluru South MP, came armed with a list of 17 names, all from the minority community and sought to know their qualifications. Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya, MLAs, took objection that so many people from the same community had been appointed at the war room. Their comments were live-streamed on Mr. Surya’s social media handles.

&gt;Sources in the civic body said there are over 120 staff working at the south zone war room of which 17 were from the minority community. Following the face-off with legislators, most of them were fired.

Video. Where Bjp MLAs ask why so many Muslims have been hired. They ask whether they are hiring for a Madrasa or hajj Bhavan.

https://mobile.twitter.com/Habeebinamdar/status/1389712793566269441

https://thecognate.com/bjp-karnataka-communalises-covid-crisis-mlas-ask-if-bbmp-is-hajj-bhavan-or-madrasa-to-recruit-only-muslims-in-war-room/amp/

&gt;BJP MLAs Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya turned the ongoing COVID crisis in Bengaluru into communal hate-mongering on Tuesday, when they, along with Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya barged into a BBMP COVID War Room and asked officers present if BBMP (city municipal corporation) was a Hajj Bhavan or a Madrasa to recruit only Muslims.

&gt;Two people, identified as Rohit and Netra were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly charging between ₹ 25,000 and ₹ 50,000 for a bed.

Note the only two arrested are Hindus.

For the 17 Muslim bbmp war room volunteers, there are no accusations against. No accusation of scam against them. Just bigots asking why 17 Muslim men out of 120 staff picked and questioned. The only accusation they throw is why so many Muslims were hired(17 out of 120 staff). And questioning their qualifications.

Here is a complete list of all 120 staff of bangalore south. Note that all 17 Muslim men from that list has been singled out

Edit: removed as it had personal info

Last year it was tablighi jamaat. This year again targeting Muslims. Muslims have been at the forefront of cremating Hindus when their relatives can't do it. Sanghis are no where to be found.

And filthy bigots are spreading this on all WhatsApp groups. Calling them terrorists. A bunch of vile bigots are defending it even on bangalore subreddit.

Utter filth. No where you find such filth in the world when the pandemic is going on.

This is the kind of hatred which the majority subscribe to. Tejasvi Surya got elected with a majority in a constituency which is highly educated and extremely rich.

Even after the Tablighi Jamaat fiasco and all that is happening now with BJPs failure, the majority will still scapegoat and believe whatever nonsense this communal bigot spews.

Edit: Thanks to Plshelpthedog for pointing this out

Same mla Satish Reddy accused by bbmp on may 1st.

https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/cover-story/khadi-is-earning-its-bed-butter/articleshow/82334078.cms

&gt;This could be one of the many reasons why critically ill covid patients are not getting beds. Some war rooms, set up by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in the different zones, appear to be controlled by politicians rather than professionals. With political interference, the deserving are bypassed and those with influence are given beds, whether they require them on not.

&gt;An unauthorised person, apparently close to the legislator of the area, was found loitering in the zonal war room, influencing doctors to allot beds to asymptomatic patients. This came to light on Thursday when a team of senior officials led by Rajender Kumar Kataria, nodal officer of Bommanahalli zone made a surprise visit to the war room, which controls the allocation of beds in at least 30 private hospitals. The person, identified as Babu, was shown the doors immediately.

&gt;Multiple sources confirmed that Babu was not employed by the BBMP even on a temporary basis. Some said that he had visited the war room often since the last three weeks.

&gt;A day after he was asked to leave the war room, a group of over 100 men barged into the command centre in HSR Layout on Friday, protesting his removal. It is alleged that the protest took place on the directions of Sathish Reddy, MLA of Bommanahalli Assembly Constituency.

&gt;The issue has also reached Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s office.“We visited private hospitals to review the condition of covid-19 patients referred by the Bommanahalli war room. Many of them were asymptomatic patients and did not require hospitalization. This has possibly deprived many critical patients of hospital treatment,” an official said.

&gt;BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that he was aware of the issue and would seek a detailed report from the nodal officers.

Seems like the bigots themselves ran a cartel. Many critical patients were denied beds because of these filth. Then when they were exposed by bbmp and it reached yeddyurappa, the opposing camp tried to "expose" it and blamed Muslims.