Dr. S. Muralidhar, J.: Qasim, who informed her that some people had fought with Najeeb and that
he had suffered injuries as a result. When she expressed her concern, Qasim
pacified her stating that she should not worry as they were there with
Najeeb. 6. Between 3.30 am and 4 am on 15th October 2016, the Petitioner along
with her younger son boarded a bus to Delhi. On reaching Bulandshahr city,
she called up Najeeb, asked him whether he had had breakfast. She asked
him not to worry and to have his breakfast, to which he said he would. Then,
on reaching the Anand Vihar Bus Terminus in Delhi, she called him and
asked him to meet her in his room. He apparently told her "yes mother,
come over". However, when she reached his hostel room at around 12 noon -1 pm, she could not find him. She tried calling him up but located his
mobile in his room. Thereafter, she tried looking for him in the hostel but
was unable to do so. She requested the police that a missing report be filed
and necessary legal action be taken. 7. Sub Inspector („SI‟) Sandeep Yadav attached to PS Vasant Kunj (North),
New Delhi noted at 8 pm on 16th October, 2016, that every possible search
was conducted, mandatory steps were ensured and enquiries were made at
the JNU hostel and every place "but no clue could be found". It was further
noted, "that on the basis of the complaint, circumstances, enquiries, a clear
cut offence under Section 365 IPC is found to have been committed." 8. The Petitioner also relied on the complaint given to the SHO by one Mr
Mohit Pandey (President of the JNU Students Union - „JNUSU‟). Nine
persons involved in attacking Najeeb on the night of 14 th October, 2016,
were mentioned by him. He also mentioned as to how he himself and five
others i.e. Dalip, Rama Naga, Shahid, Hamid and Qasim were shielding
Najeeb. He also mentioned how despite somehow managing to rescue
Najeeb from their clutches and taking him to the Warden‟s room, the named
nine persons still continued threatening him and asked that he be handed
over to them so that they could finish him off. Mohit Pandey alleged that
since the nine persons were continuously issuing threats to Najeeb, "it is
pretty clear that they are involved in the matter of Najeeb Ahmed‟s
disappearance". 9. The Petitioner has also enclosed with the petition a handwritten complaint
signed by 23 residents of the Mahi Mandavi Hostel, where Najeeb was a
resident of Room No.106, referring to his being attacked by nine persons
who are identical to the nine named by Mr Mohit Pandey. This complaint
mentioned that the above incident took place at around 11.30 pm on 14 th
October, 2016. 10. On 24th October, 2016, Mohit Kumar Pandey gave a memorandum on
behalf of the JNUSU to the Lieutenant Governor („LG‟) of the NCT of Delhi
inter alia stating that no serious efforts were being made by the Delhi Police
to trace the whereabouts of Najeeb. It was mentioned that they were aware
that a Special Investigation Team („SIT‟) was already formed, but sought
intervention of the LG "so that no dilly-dallying tactics could be used by W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 4 of 34 Delhi Police." It was mentioned that "there is a sense of impunity amongst
the perpetrators of violence and that is aggravating situation of fear and
injustice in campus." Reference is made to the „very first Press Release‟
made by the JNU Administration referring to Najeeb as an „accused‟, in
relation to an altercation with one Vikrant Kumar, with no mention being
made therein about the attacks on Najeeb himself. It was also stated that the
JNU Administration had not shared the decision taken by the Wardens on
16th October, 2016 to defer Najeeb‟s punishment in order to inspire some
confidence in him. Proceedings at JNU 11. Enclosed with the writ petition is a handwritten copy of the proceedings
of "warden and students meeting held in emergency on 15.10.2016 at 12
am". These minutes are signed by Mr Sushil Kumar (Senior Warden), Arun
Srivastava (Men‟s Warden), Mohit Pandey, JNUSU President, Alimuddin
(Mahi Mandavi Hostel‟s President), Qasim (room partner) and Dilip (Ex.
Mahi Mandavi Hostel President). It records as under: 12. Below the signatures of the aforementioned persons is the following W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 5 of 34 noting: 13. The above noting has been signed by Sushil Kumar (Senior Warden),
Arun Srivastava (Men‟s Warden) and Soumyajit Ray, another Warden. 14. Another meeting of Wardens took place at 9.30 pm on 16 th October,
2016, where it was noted as under: 15. This was signed by three of the Wardens - Sushil Kumar, Senior
Warden, Soumyajit Ray, Warden, Arun Srivastava, Warden - and
Alimuddin, President of the Mahi Mandavi Hostel. 16. JNU released a press release on 17th October, 2016 stating inter alia that
the Administration had taken the following steps: 17. A separate letter was given by Mr Mohit Pandey, President of the
JNUSU to senior officers of PS Vasant Kunj (North) requesting swift action
in arresting the nine persons mentioned by him, who were involved in the
attack on Najeeb on the night of 14th October 2016. 18. When the writ petition was listed before this Court on 28 th November, W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 7 of 34 2016, Mr Rahul Mehra, learned Standing Counsel appearing for the State
submitted a status report, which was handed over to Mr. Colin Gonsalves,
learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Petitioner. As noted by the Court,
the said status report was "perused and returned by him to Mr Mehra". This
was in light of the apprehensions expressed by Mr Mehra about sharing of
the status report "as it would hamper the investigation at this stage." Order dated 28th November 2016 19. This Court on 28th November 2016 noticed that at page 4 of the said
status report, reference was made to Najeeb having been taken to the
Safdarjung Hospital where he refused medical examination. The Court was
surprised that the background to Najeeb having to be taken to Safdarjung
Hospital was not set out. It directed an affidavit to be filed by the concerned
officer explaining the reasons for this lapse and to also file a supplementary
status report setting out the details of the incident which led to "removal of
Najeeb from to the hostel to Safdarjung Hospital". 20. The Court also noticed that the steps taken by the local police and the
SIT included wireless messages having been sent to the SSPs of all the
Districts of India on 15th/16th October, 2016; uploading the details of the
missing person on the Zonal Integrated Police Net („ZIP Net‟) on 16th
October, 2016; circulation of hue and cry notices since 15 th October, 2016;
information sent to Director NCRV on 16th October 2016; transmission of
the information to Delhi Doordarshan and CBI Missing Section; publishing
of the details of the missing person in newspapers on 25 th and 26th October
and then on 6th and 8th November, 2016 and photo of the missing person W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 8 of 34 being circulated on private channels on 6th November 2016. The reward was
increased from Rs.50,000/- to Rs. 2,00,000/-, and later to Rs.5,00,000/-.
Four teams were sent along various routes including Delhi-Agra, Delhi -
Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Moradabad and Rampur. The CCTV footages of
Metro Stations were examined. It was also stated as under 21. The order dated 28th November 2016 of this Court then noted that
learned counsel appearing for JNU informed the Court that he would seek
instructions whether the decision of expelling Najeeb "has been
reconsidered or would be reconsidered". The Court also directed the
Petitioner to issue a statement, with the assistance of the police, through
print and electronic media to Najeeb requesting him to return. The Court
also requested JNU to issue an advertisement informing Najeeb that the
decision of his expulsion from the hostel would be reconsidered on his
return. The Court explained: 22. The Court directed that the status report submitted to it would be sealed
by the Court Master and kept in the Court file. It also noted: Order dated 9th December 2016 23. The next hearing of the case took place on 9th December 2016, when the
Court perused the affidavit of Dr. Ram Gopal Naik, DCP (Crime Branch)
which was tendered along with the supplementary status report. It was
submitted by Dr. Naik as under: 24. It was stated in the said affidavit by Dr. Naik that the 9 students alleged
to be involved in the attack on Najeeb by Mr. Mohit Pandey were contacted
telephonically and notices were also sent to them by registered post asking
them to join the investigation and to undergo lie detection tests. Reference
was made to the doubt expressed by Mr. Gonsalves about an auto rickshaw
driver identifying Najeeb as the boy whom he ferried from JNU Campus to
Jamia Milia Islamia University since there was no system in place of noting
the registration number of the auto rickshaws entering/exiting JNU Campus.
Dr. Naik stated: 25. The supplementary status report tendered by Dr. Naik enclosed the
statements of roommate Mohd. Qasim and 12 others which included the
President of Mahi Mandavi Hostel JNU, the wardens, Prof. Arun Srivastava,
Dr. Sushil Kumar and Dr. Soumyajit Roy (Warden - sanitation). Further the
number of the fellow students and ex-students including those who had
attacked Najeeb were "also re-examined/interrogated at length in person."
Their statements were enclosed with the supplementary status report. That
report also sought to reconstruct the sequence of events. It was noted in the
supplementary status report that at the emergency meeting of the Warden
Committee Najeeb was: 26. It is further noted that thereafter Najeeb along with Qasim returned to
their room. When Qasim put his hand at the back of Najeeb‟s neck, Najeeb
complained of pain. Qasim then suggested to the hostel warden that Najeeb
should be examined in a hospital. An ambulance was called through the
security room. Najeeb, accompanied by Mohd. Qasim and Mohd. Shad
reached Safdarjung Hospital. However, on reaching Safdarjung hospital,
Najeeb "refused to get any sort of medical aid or treatment." As a result,
Qasim called Najeeb‟s mother and informed her that he was refusing
treatment, to which she said that Najeeb had some old problem and the
relevant medicines would be in his room. It is noted that throughout the W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 12 of 34 incident "Najeeb was not having any visible injury nor did he complain of
any discomfort." They returned to JNU in the same ambulance, although
Najeeb kept insisting that he would wait for his mother at the hospital. He
further insisted on going to Gurugram to the house of his aunt (Fufi). It was
further noted that after reaching JNU, Qasim gave Najeeb certain medicines
as instructed by Najeeb‟s mother. However, Najeeb did not sleep throughout
the night. The report also noted that no MLC was prepared at Safdarjung
Hospital, New Delhi. Since the CCTV footage of Safdarjang Hospital is
preserved only for 7 days at a time, the police could not obtain the said
CCTV footage of the relevant time period. In light of the fact that on 15th
October 2016, an auto (TSR) driver purportedly dropped Najeeb near Jamia
Milia Islamia University, the route that would be opted by auto drivers from
JNU to Jamia University was searched for CCTVs, but no CCTV footage
covering the route could be procured. Orders dated 14th and 22nd December 2016 27. The case was next heard on 14th December 2016. The Court on that date
recorded the submission of Mr. Gonsalves that the JNUSU would have no
objection if the entire JNU campus was searched by the Delhi Police. No
obstruction would be caused and all assistance would be provided by JNU.
The JNU was asked to file its affidavit by Friday that week. It was further
directed as under: 28. On 22nd December 2016 the Court noted that another status report had
been handed over. The Court was informed that the entire JNU Campus
including the complete administrative and academic blocks, hostel
complexes, class-room complexes, open areas, terrace areas with all water
tanks, septic tanks and residential complexes were searched on 19 th and 20th
December 2016. It was further noted as under: Orders in 2017 29. One of the persons suspected, who was issued notice in terms of the
above directions, filed an application Crl.M.A.2028/2017 apprehensive of
him being compelled to undergo the lie detector test. The Court then
clarified in the order dated 23rd January 2017 as under: 30. As far as the main writ petition was concerned, on 13th February 2017
this Court observed: 31. Another status report was handed over as regards the main writ petition.
The Court was informed that the students to whom notices were issued for
undergoing the lie detector test had appeared before the Court of the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM), Patiala House Courts on 10 th February
2017 and the matter had been adjourned to 15th February 2017. 32. On 20th February, 2017, the Court was informed that the CMM had W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 15 of 34 adjourned the proceedings to 22nd February, 2017. It was clarified by
counsel for the State that the lie-detector test was not restricted to the nine
students but also to the roommate of the missing person and a few other
persons as well. 33. The case was next heard on 16th March, 2017. A status report was filed
which detailed further steps that were taken to trace the missing person. The
Court was informed that the CMM had fixed the next date as 20 th March,
2017. The State informed the Court that the call records of the nine persons
would be produced on the next date. 34. At the hearing on 21st April, 2017, two confidential reports were
submitted to the Court. One was the report of the Central Forensic Sciences
Laboratory (CFSL), Hyderabad, regarding the data retrieved from the
mobile phone as well as the laptop of Najeeb. The second report was an
analysis of the CDRs of the nine students alleged to be behind the
disappearance of Najeeb. An application was filed by the Petitioner seeking
directions for the constitution of an SIT as the current SIT at that time,
according to her, was not functioning satisfactorily. The Court observed that
the statements of all identified witnesses should be recorded by the IO, if not
already recorded. The Court further directed as under: 35. The State was also asked to explain the initial delay in taking action on
the complaint about Najeeb having gone missing. 36. On 16th May, 2017, an order was passed in Crl. M.A. 8174/2017
recording, inter-alia, the submission of Mr. Mehra that the Delhi Police
would have no objection, if the matter was further investigated by another
agency. This Court then recorded as under: 37. At the hearing on 8th August 2017, the Court noted that the CBI
submitted its status report in a sealed cover, which was then opened in the
Court. The Court observed "it is strange that an advance copy of the same
has already been served to counsel for the Petitioner." The Special Public
Prosecutor (SPP) for the CBI assured the Court that a detailed status report
would be filed on the next date. 38. Mr. Nikhil Goel, Advocate, appeared for the CBI on following date i.e.
6th September, 2017. He pointed out to the Court that from the date the
investigation had been taken over by the CBI, 26 persons falling in three
distinct categories have been interrogated which include the officials of the
JNU, staff, friends, colleagues, etc. It was further submitted that wide W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 17 of 34 publicity has been given in 12 cities; mortuaries etc. have also been carefully
examined. It was also pointed out that railway record for the past one year
with name and age had also been called and other than the 8 officials who
are in the team, two officials above the rank of DIG are also supervising the
investigation. The written suggestions of the Petitioner were accepted by Mr.
Goel, who said that those would be examined. 39. The CBI handed over another status report to the Court on 16 th October,
2017. After noting that the CMM had adjourned the application seeking
leave to conduct the lie detector test of the nine persons to 24th January,
2018, awaiting their reply, the Court disapproved of the long date given. A
request was then made to the CMM to ensure that long dates are not given
"where applications are made for conducting the polygraph test or in such
application where there is urgency in the matter." When it was pointed out to
the Court that the status report of the CBI had been signed by a Inspector
whereas the investigation had to be conducted under the supervision of an
officer not below the rank of DIG as was directed by the order dated 16 th
May 2017, the Court directed the concerned DIG to ensure that the status
report was filed thereafter under his signatures. 40. At the hearing on 14th November, 2017, a status report handed over by
the CBI in Court was given to Mr. Gonsalves for his perusal and was
thereafter returned by him to the counsel for the CBI. 41. At the hearing on 21st December, 2017, another status report was
submitted, in which, inter alia, it was stated that the report of the CFSL,
Chandigarh on the forensic examinations of the mobile phones for the W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 18 of 34 deleted data was awaited. The Court directed the CBI to send a reminder to
the CFSL, Chandigarh to expedite the submission of their report. The Court
was also shown a copy of the order dated 21st November, 2017 passed by the
learned Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) disposing of the
application filed by the CBI seeking permission to subject the nine persons
to polygraph test. The learned ACMM observed that the consent required of
such persons for that purpose was not forthcoming. Orders in 2018 42. On 27th February 2018, another updated status report was filed by the
CBI in a sealed cover which was opened in the presence of the parties. Para
3 of that status report was shared with Mr. Gonsalves, learned senior counsel
for the Petitioner. The Court issued a direction to the Director, CFSL,
Chandigarh, to expedite the report of the analysis of the mobile phones and
make the report available to the CBI not later than 19th March, 2018. On the
same day, Mr. Gonsalves made a plea that the investigation of the present
case should be monitored by the Court and that the status reports submitted
by the CBI should be examined by a criminal law expert for his analysis and
advice. This was opposed by Mr. Nikhil Goel, learned counsel for the CBI.
The Court deferred consideration of the above plea after noting that
important steps in the investigation should first be completed. 43. On 2nd April, 2018, the Court noted that a report had been sent by the
CFSL, Chandigarh, to the CBI of examination of only three of the mobile
phones. Even that part of the report was found to be incomplete. It was noted
that going by the status report filed on that date in the Court, the CBI itself W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 19 of 34 had reservations about the incomplete report in respect of three mobile
phones since the task had been entrusted to a junior level officer of CFSL,
Chandigarh, who did not appear to be appropriately qualified or experienced
to undertake the task. The Court took serious note of the laxity on the part of
the CFSL, Chandigarh, and directed that in the event that the complete
report of the analysis of the nine mobile phones undertaken by the CFSL,
Chandigarh by a senior level officer qualified for the task, is not made
available to the IO of the CBI on or before 30th April 2018, the Director,
CFSL, Chandigarh would remain present in person in this Court on the next
date to explain the lapse. 44. The case was next heard on 11th May, 2018. The Court noted in its order
of that date as under: 45. The ninth status report of the CBI was submitted in this Court on 12th
July, 2018. The CFSL, Hyderabad, in its report to the CBI dealt with three
mobile phones sent to it and stated that two of them were physically
damaged and therefore could not be analyzed. As for the third, the pattern
lock could not be opened as it appeared to be in the „USB Debugging
Disabled Mode‟. Mr. Gonsalves drew attention of the Court to the
representation dated 17th October, 2016 made to the Chief Proctor, JNU by
18 persons who claimed to be eye witnesses to the assault on the missing
person. The Court observed that it would like the CBI to make a separate
compilation, for the perusal of the Court, of the statements given by these 18
persons to the CBI. Also that the Court would like the CBI to include in the
compilation the statements given by the three Doctors serving as wardens in
JNU i.e. Dr. Arun Shrivastav, Dr. Sushil Kumar and Dr. Soumyajit Roy as
well as the three security guards, who were assigned to the hostel at the
relevant time when the attack took place. 46. At the hearing on 4th September, 2018, the CBI presented before the
Court a compilation of the statements given by the 18 persons as well as the
three wardens and three security guards assigned to the Mahi-Mandavi
Hostel at the relevant time when the attack took place. Submissions on behalf of the Petitioner 47. The submissions of Mr. Gonsalves, learned senior counsel for the
Petitioner were as follows: Reliance is placed by him on the Minnesota Protocol (2016), which is
 the revised United Nations Manual on the Effective Prevention and
 Investigation of Extra-legal, Arbitrary and Summary Executions. (ii) The question that really arose for consideration by this Court was
 whether the CBI had done its best in tracing out Najeeb. A lot of time
 was wasted in the CBI suggesting that Najeeb had left in a TSR on the
 morning of 15th October, 2016 and the fact that that statement was
 found to be incorrect subsequently. Time was also lost in finding out
 whether a body recovered from the JNU campus in January, 2017
 belonged to Najeeb only to be again answered in the negative. (iii) It is difficult to expect CBI to be able to undertake a fair and objective
 investigation without any political interference. He expressed surprise
 that the named nine persons were not yet subjected to custodial
 interrogation to elicit the truth of the matter. Referring to the
 applications filed by the Petitioner seeking an independent and
 impartial investigation by an SIT comprising officers from outside
 Delhi with unimpeachable reputation, reliance was placed on the
 decision in Babubhai Jamnadas Patel v. State of Gujarat 2009 (12)
 SCALE 183. It was urged that there should be a Court-monitored
 investigation. (iv) The statements given to CBI by Mr. Mohit Pandey and five others
 who had saved Najeeb from further attack on the night of 14 th
 October, 2016 by the nine persons should be sufficient material for W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 23 of 34 the CBI to subject the nine suspected persons to custodial
 interrogation. Submissions on behalf of the CBI 48. Countering the above submissions, Mr .Nikhil Goel submitted that while
the investigating agency could be asked to share with the complainant the
stage at which the investigation was, Section 172 of the Cr PC was clear that
only the criminal Court concerned could be privy to what was recorded in
the case diary. The status reports were only to indicate to the Court the
progress of the investigation. Whether to subject the persons to custodial
interrogation or not was the discretion of the investigating agency, keeping
in view the parameters set out under Section 41 Cr PC. According to him,
the CBI investigation was indeed being monitored by this Court since May,
2017. Although this was essentially the task of the concerned criminal Court
which could not be delegated to anyone else, there was no justification for
the demand that this Court should constitute an SIT comprising officers
from outside Delhi and should also monitor the investigation undertaken by
such SIT. 49. Mr. Nikhil Goel, on the basis of the decision in Shahid Balwa v. Union
of India (2014) 2 SCC 687, submitted that even if the CBI filed a closure
report in the concerned criminal Court, as it proposed to in the present case,
at that stage the criminal Court would give the complainant an opportunity
of being heard as the complainant had the right to object/oppose the closure
report. In what is known as „Protest Petition‟, the complainant would be
heard, to point out to the criminal Court after examining the report placed by W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 24 of 34 the CBI along with the relevant annexures and supporting documents, before
the criminal Court, that the recommendation of the CBI regarding closure
should not be accepted and that the matter required further investigation. The Minnesota Protocol 50. As regards the first plea regarding the Minnesota Protocol, the Court
would like to note that in the present case, at every stage of the hearing the
Petitioner was aware of the filing of the status reports, first by the Delhi
Police, Crime Branch/SIT and thereafter by the CBI. While some of the
reports were in fact furnished to the Petitioner, some others were shown to
the learned Senior counsel for the Petitioner and then taken back. In one
instance, only one paragraph of the status report was shown to the learned
Senior Counsel. 51. It must be recalled that the status report indicates what progress has been
made in the investigation. It also sets out the specific steps taken by the
investigating agency. It might have set out the details of the names of the
persons examined. These are usually details in the case diary maintained by
the investigating agency under Section 172 (3) Cr.PC. The law is well
settled that the details in a case diary maintained under Section 172 (3) Cr.PC are not shared with anyone, be it the suspect or the complainant. It is
to be perused only by the Court. There is no requirement of sharing the
details in the case diary with the complainant. 52. The Minnesota Protocol underscores the need for the complainant to be
able to have an effective representation in the entire process. As far as that
requirement is concerned, it is more than adequately met when, after the W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 25 of 34 filing of the closure report before the criminal report, the complainant files a
protest petition opposing the closure of the investigation. The complainant is
then provided with full excess to the closure report and the materials on
which it is based. Subject to terms with which the complainant would have
to comply, the criminal Court concerned will provide such access and
perhaps also furnish copy of the entire closure report and such of the
documents which formed the basis for the recommendation for such closure.
The complainant can then carefully analyse the material and point out to the
criminal court why in the view of the complainant the closure report should
not be accepted. Thereafter, the concerned criminal Court takes a call. Options before the criminal Court 53. The options available before the criminal court at this stage, have been
explained by the Supreme Court in its decision in Amrutbhai Shambhubhai
Patel v. Sumanbhai Kantibhai Patel (2017) 4 SCC 177 as under: 54. If indeed the criminal Court has to form a view on the justification of the
CBI recommending closure, it will give a full opportunity to the Petitioner at W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 27 of 34 that stage to oppose that request by filing a „protest petition‟ and in that
process, the Petitioner will have full access to the entire material gathered by
the CBI. This will more than satisfy the requirements of the Minnesota
Protocol. This disposes of the submission made in this regard by Mr.
Gonsalves. Constituting an SIT 55. Now turning to the request regarding constitution of an SIT, the Court is
conscious that in a series of cases, the Supreme Court has constituted SITs
in exercise of its power under Article 142 of the Constitution. 56. In Babubhai Jamnadas Patel v. State of Gujarat (2009) 9 SCC 610, the
Supreme Court dealt with appeals filed against the interim orders of the
Gujarat High Court passed in the course of monitoring by the High Court in
the investigation of an FIR registered at the Karanj Police Station in Gujarat.
The question was whether the High Court was interfering with the
investigation and if this was contemplated under the Constitution and
criminal procedure. Reference was made to the decision in Director, CBI v.
Niyamavedi , (1995) 3 SCC 601, where it had been observed that any
observation which may amount to interference with the investigation should
not be made and that ordinarily the Court should refrain from interfering at a
premature stage of the investigation as that may derail the investigation and
demoralise the investigation. 57. On the other hand, the contesting Respondents pointed out that the
powers of the High Courts and the Supreme Court under the Constitution are
wide enough to direct a public authority to perform its duty in accordance W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 28 of 34 with the law. The decisions referred to were State of Bihar v. Ranchi Zila
Samta Party ( 1996) 3 SCC 682, Vineet Narain v. Union of India (1998) 1
SCC 226; State of W.B. v. Nuruddin Mallick (1998) 8 SCC 43 and Nirmal
Singh Kahlol v. State of Punjab (2009) 1 SCC 441. The Supreme Court in Babubhai Jamnadas Patel (supra) noted that the progress of the
investigation in the case had been „tardy and slow‟. In these circumstances,
the directions issued by the High Court that the investigation should be
handed over to the ACP of the C Division of Ahmedabad City should be
viewed as „keeping a watch over the investigation in order to prevent the
miscarriage of justice‟. It was further observed as under: 58. In the present case, however, this Court did accept the plea of the
Petitioner at the first instance and directed the investigation to be undertaken
by the CBI. This Court is, however, for the reasons discussed hereafter, not
persuaded that the CBI is tardy and slow in the investigation or that it has
not taken steps that are required to be taken in the matter. The question
really is whether there is any justification for the plea that for the second
time now, the investigation should be entrusted to another SIT whose work W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 29 of 34 will be monitored by the Court, thus removing the CBI from the picture. 59. In Shahid Balwa (supra), the Supreme Court was dealing with the
investigation by the CBI into the „2G Spectrum Scam‟. In its decision in Shahid Balwa (supra), the Supreme Court was considering the applications
filed by the some of the accused persons questioning its directions that
subordinate courts including the High Courts would be prohibited from
entertaining any prayer for staying the proceedings. Reaffirming its earlier
directions, the Court explained that the directions had been issued having
regard to the larger public interest involved "and the necessity of the proper
investigation and also with the object of unearthing the track". That was not
a case of constitution of an SIT. In fact, the investigation was entrusted to
the CBI which ultimately filed their charge sheet. The Court declined to lay
down any guidelines as prayed for by the petitioner which would apply in a
„court monitored investigation‟. The Court explained
 "In a Court-monitored investigation, as already pointed out, the
 Court is not expected to interfere with the trial proceedings. The
 conduct of the trial is the business of the trial judge and not the
 court monitoring the investigation. A superior court exercising
 the appellate power or constitutional power, if gives a direction
 to conduct the trial on day-to-day basis or complete the trial in a
 specific time by giving direction is not interfering with the trial
 proceedings but only facilitating the speedy trial, which is a
 facet of Article 21 of the Constitution of India." 60. In the present case, this Court has in fact monitored the investigation
thus far of the CBI and has not been persuaded to agree with the Petitioner
that the CBI has not acted fairly or that it has been under any influence or
political compulsions in its decision to file a closure report. However, the W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 30 of 34 Court would not like to say anything further in this regard because it will be
for the Court concerned to decide whether on the material placed before it,
the CBI closure report should be accepted or not. That will be a decision to
be taken independently by the concerned Court, uninfluenced by what this
Court may have observed thus far in these proceedings. Further, in coming
to any conclusion in that matter, the concerned Court will certainly take into
consideration the stand and contentions of the Petitioner, if any. 61. In Sushila Devi v. State of Rajasthan (2014) 1 SCC 269, the question
was whether the Supreme Court should continue to monitor the case
investigated by the CBI on its directions even after the charge sheet was
filed. It was observed by the Supreme Court as under: 62. The decision in Manohar Lal Sharma v. Principal Secretary (2014) 2
SCC 532 involved investigation into the "Coal Scam". The CBI there had
registered preliminary inquiries regarding allegations of coal blocks for the
period 1993-2005 and 2006-2009. The allegation was that the coal blocks W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 31 of 34 for the subject period were allocated to private prayers for extraneous
considerations which resulted in enormous loss to the public exchequer.
Given the importance to the matter, the Supreme Court undertook
monitoring of the investigation conducted by the CBI. The question that
arose before the Supreme Court was whether approval of the Central
Government under Section 6-A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment
Act, 1946 was necessary in the matter where the inquiry/investigation into
the crime under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 is being monitored
by a Constitutional Court. The said question was answered in the negative.
The Supreme Court explained: 63. The Supreme Court further explained as under: 64. This Court has monitored the investigation of the CBI up to the stage
where the CBI is in a position to file a report before the concerned criminal
Court. What should happen hereafter is for the concerned criminal Court to
decide and not this Court. Consequently the prayer of the Petitioner that the
Court should constitute an SIT and monitor its work, thus removing the CBI
from the picture, has to be declined. 65. Leaving it open to the Petitioner to raise all contentions available to her W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 33 of 34 in accordance with law before the concerned criminal Court after the filing
of the report by the CBI in such Court, the Court disposes of this petition
and all the pending applications. S. MURALIDHAR, J. VINOD GOEL J. OCTOBER 08, 2018
tr / shailender W.P. (Crl) 3391/2016 Page 34 of 34