IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH SHIMLA Cr. A. No. 609/2017 Reserved on: 18.8.2023
 Decided on : 22.8.2023
 Kuldeep Kumar & anr. .....Appellants

 . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge.
 The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Ranjan Sharma, Judge. of
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes

 For the Appellants: Mr. Dibender Ghosh, Advocate.
 For the Respondents: rt Mr. Anup Rattan, A. G. with Mr.
 Y.W Chauhan, Mr. I. N. Mehta,
 Sr.Addl A.Gs., & Ms. Sharmila

 Patial, Addl. A.G.
 ____________________________________________________________________
 Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge

 The appellants have filed the instant appeal against

 the judgment, dated 23.3.2017 passed by the learned Special

 Judge, Kinnaur Sessions Division at Rampur Bushahr, H.P., in

 Sessions Trial No. 0000043/2014, whereby they along with

 respondent No.2 have been convicted and sentenced to undergo

 rigorous imprisonment for 7 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- each and in default, to undergo simple imprisonment

 for 6 months under Section 366A of the Indian Penal Code

 ( IPC ) and undergo rigorous imprisonment for 12 years and to

 pay a fine of Rs. 35000/- each and in default, to undergo

 1 Whether reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. further simple imprisonment for 1 year under Section 376D IPC. 2 The prosecution case, in a brief, is that in the year

 . 2014, prosecutrix (PW1), aged about 14 years, was studying in

 9th class in Govt. Senior Secondary School, Taklech. On

 3.7.2014, she had gone to her school and after attending the

 school, when she was about to return to her home and was at

 of
 Taklech, at about 3 P.M. Sunil Kumar, respondent No.2 herein,

 who was running a chicken shop at Kareri, approached her and
 rt
 said to her "I love you". The prosecutrix when spurned his

 gesture and asked him to go away, he forcibly made her to sit in

 vehicle bearing registration No. HP-06A-1289, in which,

 Kuldeep Singh (appellant No.1 herein) and Sanjeet Kumar

 (appellant No. 2 herein) were already sitting. All of them took

 her in the aforesaid vehicle to a jungle situated near Middle

 School, Kareri, where she was subjected to gang rape. Appellant

 No.2 was the first person, who alleged to have sexually

 assaulted the prosecutrix twice, and thereafter respondent No.2

 and appellant No.1 one after another. The prosecutrix though

 shouted for help, but since the place was secluded one, none

 could hear her shouting. After some time, appellant No.2 and

 respondent No.2 went away. However, appellant No.1 kept the

 prosecutrix in the forest for whole of the night and during night, ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 3 he again subjected her to forcible sexual intercourse. She

 requested the appellant a number of times to allow her to go to

 home, but all in vain. . 3. On next morning, the prosecutrix went to her school

 right from the place of occurrence, whereas appellant No.1 also

 left the spot. After the school time, the prosecutrix went to her

 home and started washing her clothes. In the meantime,

 of
 mother of the prosecutrix came and on seeing this, asked the

 prosecutrix as to why she was washing her clothes. In reply
 rt
 thereto, the prosecutrix narrated whole of the incident to her

 mother, who in turn disclosed it to her husband. 4 Thereafter, the father of the prosecutrix

 accompanied by her went to Taklech and reported the matter to

 ASI Bhagat Ram (PW12), Incharge of Police Post, Taklech. On

 the basis of the allegations made by the prosecutrix in her

 statement, the matter was sent to Police Station, Rampur

 Bushahr for registration of formal FIR under Sections 363 , 366A , 376D and 506 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code

 and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual

 Offences Act (for short, POCSO Act ). 5 During the course of the investigation, PW12

 prepared the docket and sent the prosecutrix to Civil Hospital,

 Khaneri for her medical examination, where she was medically ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 4 examined by Dr. Anupam Gupta, who, besides examining her,

 also took samples of vaginal smears and pubic hair, and after

 preparing sealed parcel thereof, handed over the same along

 . with MLC issued by her to him. PW12 visited and inspected the

 site of occurrence and recovered therefrom a prescription slip

 issued by Civil Hospital, Taklech to the prosecutrix and tablets

 of some medicine prescribed to the prosecutrix by the Medical

 of
 Officer and took the same into possession by preparing sealed

 parcel thereof. He also prepared site plan of occurrence and
 rt
 also took photographs thereof. He also took into possession the

 vehicle in which the prosecutrix had been kidnapped and

 brought to the jungle. PW12 recorded the statements of

 prosecution witnesses and on the basis of the material collected

 during investigation, both the appellants and respondent No.2

 were formally arrested and were got medically examined from

 the Medical Officer who having examined them, issued their

 necessary MLCs and also handed over their under garments

 and other forensic samples taken by him to the Investigating

 Officer. He subsequently got the samples so collected as well as

 the clothes of the prosecutrix as well as that of the appellants

 and respondent No.2 examined from the forensic science

 laboratory and obtained necessary reports in this behalf. He ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 5 also obtained birth certificate and BPL certificate of the

 prosecutrix from the Panchayat Secretary. 6 After completion of the investigation and on

 . submission of final report, the appellants as also respondent

 No.2 were charged with aforesaid offences, to which they

 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 7 In order to prove its case, the prosecution examined

 of
 as many as 13 witnesses. 8 Thereafter, statements of the appellants and
 rt
 respondent No.2 were recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C.,

 wherein they claimed to be innocent. 9 The learned Special Judge, after evaluating the oral

 as well as documentary evidence, convicted and sentenced the

 appellants and respondent No.2, as aforesaid. 10 It is vehemently argued by the learned counsel for

 the appellants that the learned Special Judge without there

 being any legal evidence, presumed the prosecutrix to be a

 minor, whereas it was the case of consensual sexual

 intercourse where the prosecutrix was not even proved to be a

 minor. 11 In order to prove this issue, one needs to refer to

 meaning of a "child" as finds mention in Section 2(d) of the

 POCSO Act as any person below the age of 18 years. So, what ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 6 this Court is primarily required to determine is whether the

 prosecutrix was under the age of 18 years at the time of

 occurrence. . 12 To prove the age of the prosecutrix, the prosecution

 has placed on record statements of PW1 prosecutrix, her

 mother PW2 and to lend corroboration thereto, the

 prosecution has relied upon birth certificate of the prosecutrix,

 of
 Ext. PW5/A and BPL certificate, Ext. PW5/B, belonging to

 family of the prosecutrix. rt
 Both these documents have been tendered in

 evidence by the prosecution through PW5 Sangi Ram, the then

 Secretary, Gram Panchayat Munish, Tehsil Rampur. However,

 both these certificates were discarded by the learned Special

 Judge by observing as under: had made these entries nor had he brought the original

 family register on the basis whereof it could have been
 held that the relevant entry had been incorporated by this

 witness on the basis of information given by a particular
 person. 14 However, the learned Special Judge proceeded to

 of
 take judicial notice of the fact that since the prosecutrix was

 studying in school, therefore, she would be presumed to be a
 rt
 minor as is evident from observations made in para 29 of the

 judgment, which read as under:- There is nothing on record to show as to whether the

 parents of the prosecutrix are literates or not. But even if it
 is assumed that on account of their ignorance or other
 factors, they had got the prosecutrix admitted for the first
 time in the school around the age of 6 6 or 7 years, even
 then it could be held that by the time the prosecutrix had
 reached 9th class, she was about the age of 16 years.
 There is nothing in evidence nor had it been suggested on
 behalf of the accused to show that in between class 1 and ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 8 9th, she had failed. Rather, if the statement made by the
 prosecutrix as PW-1 is to be believed, then it can be held
 that even after the alleged incident, she had passed the
 9th class and at the time of deposing before this Court,

 . she had been promoted to 10" class. Generally speaking,

 level of education in primary and middle classes is
 comparatively easier than the higher classes. So if this

 aspect of the case is considered in the light of the factum
 of the prosecutrix passing 9th class even after the incident
 in question, then these facts lends credence to the

 of
 aforestated finding to the effect that the prosecutrix had
 not failed in any class till the date of incident. So on the
 basis of the above and in the absence of any contrary
 rt
 evidence on record, it could be safely concluded that at
 the time of alleged incident, the prosecutrix was certainly

 quite below the age of 18 years. While holding so, I am
 fully conscious of the fact that the
 prosecution had not produced the school record to show

 as to what was the age at which the prosecutrix had been
 got admitted for the first time in the school. Otherwise
 also, it was not the case of the accused that the birth

 entries made in the school record are different from the
 age stated by the prosecutrix as well as her mother. Moreover, the accused could have easily requisitioned the
 aforementioned record to rebut this aspect of the case of

 the prosecution. So under the given circumstances, the
 non-production of the aforementioned record shall also not
 be of any help to the accused. Moreover, as already
 observed above, I have already given margin of two years
 while assessing the age of the prosecutrix. 15 We have considered the aforesaid observations and

 find it extremely difficult to align much less uphold the

 aforesaid observations. No presumption unless backed by

 . provisions of law could have been raised by the learned Special

 Judge. Even otherwise, the aforesaid observations are based on

 surmises and conjectures without there being any reasonable

 basis for the same. of
 16 However, at this stage, it needs to be noticed that

 the prosecution had filed an application before this Court
 rt
 bearing Cr.M.P. No. 1864/2018 under Sections 391 and 311

 read with Section 482 Cr.P.C. for examination of the Head

 Master, Government Primary School, Jogni, Tehsil Rampur to

 prove date of birth of the prosecutrix. 17 The aforesaid application was allowed vide order

 dated 27.12.2018 and thereafter, statement of Mr. Yudhvir

 Singh, Head Master was recorded on 13.3.2019, who in his

 statement, produced on record admission and withdrawal

 register maintained in the school pertaining to admission of

 the children in 1st Standard in the school, wherein the

 prosecutrix was shown to have been admitted in the school on

 27.5.2004. The entries qua her admission was containing at

 Sr. No. 229 in the register, Ext. AW1/A. He had also brought

 date of birth certificate prepared on the basis of entries in the ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 10 admission register vide Ext. AW1/B, admission slip, Ext.AW1/C

 and date of birth certificate accompanying the admission slip

 issued on 25.6.2004, Ext. AW1/D.

 . 18 Now, in case these documents are perused, it

 would be noticed that Ext. AW1/A is admission and

 withdrawal register, which goes to show that the prosecutrix

 had left the school after completion of her 5th class, so the

 of
 document would be in a nature of transfer certificate and is

 thus not admissible in evidence even if it is assumed that the
 rt
 prosecutrix is a minor. 19 In coming to such conclusion, we are duly fortified

 and supported by the recent judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in P. Yuvaprakash vs. State Rep. by Inspector of

 Police, JT 2023 (7) SCC 261. It shall be apt to reproduce

 paras 10 to 19 thereof, which read as under:- evidence in this case, it is necessary to extract Section 34 of the POCSO Act which reads as follows: 12. In view of Section 34 (1) of the POCSO Act, Section 94 of the JJ Act, 2015 becomes relevant, and applicable.
 That provision is extracted below: examination Board, if available; and in the absence thereof; (ii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal
 authority or a panchayat; (iii) and only in the absence of (i) and (ii) above, age shall be

 determined by an ossification test or any other latest medical
 age determination test conducted on the orders of the
 Committee or the Board: 13. It is evident from conjoint reading of the above
 provisions that wherever the dispute with respect to the
 age of a person arises in the context of her or him being a

 victim under the POCSO Act , the courts have to take
 recourse to the steps indicated in Section 94 of the JJ Act.
 The three documents in order of which the Juvenile

 Justice Act requires consideration is that the concerned

 court has to determine the age by considering the
 following documents: 14. Section 94 (2)(iii) of the JJ Act clearly indicates that
 the date of birth certificate from the school or matriculation
 or equivalent certificate by the concerned examination
 board has to be firstly preferred in the absence of which

 . the birth certificate issued by the Corporation or Municipal

 Authority or Panchayat and it is only thereafter in the
 absence of these such documents the age is to be

 determined through "an ossification test" or "any other
 latest medical age determination test" conducted on the
 orders of the concerned authority, i.e. Committee or Board

 of
 or Court. In the present case, concededly, only a transfer
 certificate and not the date of birth certificate or
 matriculation or equivalent certificate was considered. Ex.
 rt
 C1, i.e., the school transfer certificate showed the date of
 birth of the victim as 11.07.1997. Significantly, the

 transfer certificate was produced not by the prosecution
 but instead by the court summoned witness, i.e., CW-1.
 The burden is always upon the prosecution to establish

 what it alleges; therefore, the prosecution could not have
 been fallen back upon a document which it had never
 relied upon. Furthermore, DW-3, the concerned Revenue

 Official (Deputy Tahsildar) had stated on oath that the
 records for the year 1997 in respect to the births and

 deaths were missing. Since it did not answer to the
 description of any class of documents mentioned in

 Section 94(2)(i) as it was a mere transfer certificate, Ex C-
 1 could not have been relied upon to hold that M was
 below 18 years at the time of commission of the offence. 15. In a recent decision, in Rishipal Singh Solanki vs.
 State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. , this court outlined the
 procedure to be followed in cases where age
 determination is required. The court was dealing with
 Rule 12 of the erstwhile Juvenile Justice Rules (which is ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 14 in pari materia) with Section 94 of the JJ Act, and held as
 follows: 16. Speaking about provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act ,
 especially the various options in Section 94 (2) of the JJ
 Act, this court held in Sanjeev Kumar Gupta vs. The State

 of Uttar Pradesh & Ors that: 17. In Abuzar Hossain @ Gulam Hossain v State of West
 Bengal , this court, through a three-judge bench, held that
 the burden of proving that someone is a juvenile (or below

 the prescribed age) is upon the person claiming it. Further,
 in that decision, the court indicated the hierarchy of

 of
 documents that would be accepted in order of preference. 18. Reverting to the facts of this case, the headmaster of
 M's School, CW- 1, was summoned by the court and
 produced a Transfer Certificate (Ex.C-1). This witness
 rt
 produced a Transfer Certificate Register containing M's
 name. He deposed that she had studied in the school for

 one year, i.e., 2009-10 and that the date of birth was
 based on the basis of the record sheet given by the school
 where she studied in the 7th standard. DW-2 TMT

 Poongothoi, Headmaster of Chinnasoalipalayam
 Panchayat School, answered the summons [2012] 9 SCR
 224 served by the court and deposed that 'M' had joined

 her school with effect from 03.04.2002 and that her date

 of birth was recorded as 11.07.1997. She admitted that
 though the date of birth was based on the birth certificate,
 it would normally be recorded on the basis of horoscope. She conceded to no knowledge about the basis on which
 the document pertaining to the date of birth was recorded.
 It is stated earlier on the same issue, i.e., the date of birth,
 Thiru Prakasam, DW-3 stated that the birth register
 pertaining to the year 1997 was not available in the
 record room of his office. 19. It is clear from the above narrative that none of the
 documents produced during the trial answered the ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 16 description of "the date of birth certificate from the school" . 20 In addition to above, it would be noticed that

 Ext.AW1/B is a self-serving document, which has not been

 prepared by the Head Master of the school. Likewise,

 Ext.AW1/C does not in any way establish date of birth of the

 of
 prosecutrix and this simply is an application for admission and

 the so called birth certificate, Ext.AW1/D is the same
 rt
 document, having been produced before the learned Special

 Judge, which was rightly rejected as is evident form para 21 of

 the judgment, as extracted above. 21 Even otherwise, it is more than settled that family

 register issued by the Panchayat cannot be accepted as

 equivalent to matriculation certificate to prove the age of the

 prosecutrix. Reference in this regard can conveniently be made

 to one of the recent judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vinod Kataria vs. State of U.P. AIR 2022 SC 4771

 22 Thus, what stands established on record is that the

 prosecutrix cannot be termed to be a child or minor and

 therefore, the appellants and respondent No.2 could not have

 been charged and thereafter convicted and sentenced under ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 18 Section 366A or Section 4 of the POCSO Act. Consequently,

 that part of the judgment is quashed and set aside. 23 However, moot question still remains regarding

 . legality of conviction of the appellants for the offences

 punishable under IPC given the fact that the specific case of the

 appellants is that the prosecutrix had indulged in consensual

 sexual intercourse with each of the appellants. of
 24 In order to appreciate this controversy, it would be

 necessary to refer to the statement of the prosecutrix. rt
 Prosecutrix appeared as PW1 and deposed that in

 the year 2014, she was studying in 9th Class. On 3.7.2014,

 while returning home from the school at 3:00 P.M., she met

 respondent No.2 at Tacklech, who was running a chicken shop

 at Kareri. He said to her "I Love You". She further deposed that

 he was following her, to which she objected to and asked him to

 go away. On this, respondent No.2 forcibly made her to sit in

 Camper bearing registration No.HP-06-1289. The appellants

 were also sitting in the vehicle. They took her in the vehicle to a

 forest near Govt. Middle School Kareri. Appellant No.2

 subjected her to forcible sexual intercourse twice. She shouted

 and raised alarm, but no one came on the spot. Thereafter,

 respondent No.2 subjected her to forcible sexual intercourse

 once. She again shouted and raised alarm. Thereafter, ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 19 appellant No.1 also subjected her to forcibly sexual intercourse

 once. She kept on shouting, but none heard her cries. By that

 time, it had gone dark. Appellant No.2 and respondent No.2

 . left from the spot, whereas appellant No.1 stayed back and

 during the night, he again subjected her to forcibly intercourse

 in the jungle. She kept pleading with appellant No.1 to let her

 to go to home, but he refused to accede to her request and

 of
 threatened her with dire consequences in the event she

 disclosed the incident to anyone. In the morning, she went to
 rt
 school and appellant No.1 also left therefrom. She further

 deposed that after attending the school, she went to home and

 at the time of washing of her uniform, her mother inquired

 about her absence for the previous night and it is then that

 she disclosed the entire incident to her mother. Thereafter, her

 mother disclosed the incident to her father and later on, the

 matter was reported to the police. The police recorded her

 statement, Ext. PW1/A. Thereafter, she was sent for medical

 examination to Rampur Hospital. On 4.7.2014, she went to

 the spot along with police for identification. The police recovered

 torn hospital slip and tablets of medicine from the spot which

 were taken into possession vide seizure memo, Ext.PW1/B in

 the presence of her father and other police officials. The police

 during the course of investigation, on 5.7.2014, took into ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 20 possession her school uniform i.e. shirt and salwar in the

 presence of her parents vide seizure memo, Ext. PW1/C. Her

 statement was also recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. at

 . Rampur. She indentified the appellants, respondent No.2, her

 clothes and other material that had taken or recovered by the

 police, in the Court. 26 In the cross-examination conducted by the defence

 of
 counsel for appellant No.1, she admitted that school timing was

 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.. She did not know that there were
 rt
 about 5-6 shops at Village Kareri. She denied the suggestion

 that the place, from where she was forcibly made to sit in the

 vehicle, was frequented by children and others. She named the

 driver of the camper to be appellant No.2. She stated that

 during the entire incident till morning, she did not eat and

 drink anything. She denied the suggestion that she used to visit

 the jungle earlier also along with other children for study. She

 deposed that hospital prescription slip got torn during the time

 she was being raped, however her clothes did not tear during

 the entire incident. She also admitted that she had not

 sustained any injuries on her body. She further deposed that

 on the next day in morning, she did not disclose the incident

 to anyone in the school. She feigned ignorance regarding there

 being any altercations with the appellants and respondent ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 21 No.2 at Taklech. She admitted that the spot at jungle was

 uneven surface with bushes. 27 In the cross-examination conducted by the defence

 . counsel for respondent No.2, she admitted that Varsha from her

 village used to go to School with her together. She stated that

 she used to go to school from her village by bus and board the

 bus from Taklech to village at 4:30 P.M. The school was at a

 of
 distance of about 4 kms from her village. She admitted that

 she did not know appellant No.2 personally and came to know
 rt
 about his name when the appellants and respondent No.2 were

 talking in the vehicle. She denied the suggestion that appellant

 No.2 did not do any wrong act with her. She further denied the

 suggestion that she was deposing falsely. 28 On being cross-examined by the defence counsel for

 respondent No.2, she admitted that on 3.7.2014, she had

 examination etc, but did not remember the subject. The

 examination got over at 1:00 P.M. After attending the school,

 she had visited hospital on 3.7.2014. She denied that she

 returned to home by taking lift in a tipper. She further denied

 that on her return to Taklech, she had changed her uniform. She deposed that after examination, she had lunch in a hotel

 at Taklech and thereafter went to Hospital. It took about 5-10

 minutes in hospital. It is thereafter she went to Taklech Bazaar ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 22 and was returning home on foot. She admitted that while

 going from Taklech bazaar to her home, hospital falls in

 between. She stated that she was suffering from common cold

 . for which she visited hospital. She stated that the vehicle

 camper came from Taklech side. She denied the suggestion that

 she stopped the vehicle and asked for lift to her village. She

 admitted that while going from Taklech to Kareri, her village

 of
 comes in between. She denied the suggestion that after taking

 lift when the vehicle reached her village, the appellants and
 rt
 respondent No.2 asked her to alight from the vehicle, but she

 refused to alight and told them that she was going to Kareri. She denied the suggestion that the appellants and respondent

 No.2 had been falsely implicated by planting evidence against

 them. 29 Statement of PW2 Bhagwan Devi, mother of the

 prosecutrix is only corroborative as most of her statement is

 based on hearsay and narration of PW1. 30 Learned counsel for the appellants would

 vehemently argue that since it has come on record that surface

 where the prosecutrix alleged to have been raped was uneven

 surface with bushes and there was no injury on the person of

 the prosecutrix, therefore, it could have to be inferred that the

 prosecutrix was the consenting party. 31 In order to buttress his submission, he would rely

 upon testimony of PW7 Dr. Anupam Gupta, more particularly,

 her cross-examination, wherein she admitted that as per

 . physical examination and clinical report, there was nothing

 suggesting that the prosecutrix might have been subjected to

 forcibly sexual intercourse and that she had not given any

 observation regarding the duration when the last sexual

 of
 intercourse took place with the prosecutrix. She also admitted

 that if a girl of 14 years is subjected to forcible sexual
 rt
 intercourse on an uneven and bushy surface, in that event, the

 she is likely to sustain injuries. 32 However, we find no merit in such contention. 33 Section 375 of I.P.C. defines rape. It reads as

 follows: (Rest omitted as unnecessary.) ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 24 34 A reading of the above provision shows that when a

 woman is subjected to sexual intercourse against her will or

 without her consent, or in the circumstances mentioned in

 . Clause Thirdly, it amounts to rape. The clause which is

 attracted to the facts of the case is Clause Secondly, which

 mentions "without her consent". The question arises what is

 meant by 'consent'. One has to necessarily refer to Section 90 of

 of
 I.P.C. which reads as follows: (Rest omitted as unnecessary.)
 35 It must immediately be noticed that section is

 worded in the negative form. Going by the provision, consent

 cannot be inferred if (i) is given under fear or injury, (ii) under

 misconception of fact. First of these two aspects have no

 application to the facts of the present case. It is the second

 limb, i.e., misconception of fact, which is taken aid by the

 prosecution in the case on hand to fasten liability on the

 accused. It is trite that the consent must be free one and must

 not be the result of threat, coercion, intimidation, ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 25 misrepresentation or fraud. Consent given under misconception

 is invalid if the person concerned is aware of its existence. 36 In Ratanlal and Dhirajlal's Law of Crimes, 23rd

 . Edition, 262 at page under the caption 'Misconception of fact',

 it is noticed as follows: . 37 Consent contemplated under Sections 90 and 375 of

 I.P.C. must be one which should be obtained before the act. To

 ascertain whether there is consent on the part of the

 prosecutrix which would exonerate the accused, the attending

 of
 circumstances will have to be considered. One must notice here

 at once that Section 90 of I.P.C. comes under Chapter IV

 dealing with 'General Exceptions'. Consent, in order to relieve
 rt
 the act of criminal character like rape, must be an act of

 reason, accompanied with deliberation, after the mind has

 weighed as in a balance between the good and the evil. It is

 always a voluntary and conscious acceptance of what is

 proposed to be done by another and concurred in by the former. 38 In Halsbury's Laws of India, Vol.5(1) at page

 131, it is stated as follows: . 39 Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol.15A deals with the

 question of consent and it is observed as follows: 40 In Words and Phrases, permanent Edition,

 Vol.8A at page 197 it is observed as follows: means mere passivity, or submission which does not
 include consent." . 41 At page 205 it is observed as follows: one of the evidences of that condition. Likewise resistance
 is not a synonym of unwillingness, though it is an evidence
 thereof. In all cases, therefore, where the prosecuting
 witness has an intelligent will, the court should charge
 upon the elements of "consent" and resistance as being ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 29 proper elements from which the jury may infer either a
 favourable or an opposing will. It must, however, be
 recognized in all cases that the real test is whether the
 assault was committed against the will of the prosecuting

 . witness." 42 In Black's Law Dictionary, 9th Edition at page

 346 'consent' is noticed as follows: 43 In Text Book of Criminal Law by Glanville

 Williams, Second Edition, the author, after referring to the

 negative and positive sides of the notion of consent, at page 560

 observed as follows: rt
 In Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol.25 at page

 191 it is observed as follows: 45 In Criminal Law, 9th Edition by P.S.A. Pillai, at

 page 127 it is stated as follows: Generally speaking, consent means something which is

 done deliberately and by free will. It is a concurrence of
 wills. While concurrence of wills is an essential element of
 consent, it is also equally important that the consent is

 given consciously and with full knowledge of the act
 consented to." 46 In American Jurisprudence 2nd at page 766, it is

 mentioned as follows: of
 At page 767, it is mentioned as follows: At page 817 it was held as follows: 47 In Stroud's Judicial Dictionary of Words and

 Phrases, 6th Edition, Volume 1 at page 490, it is observed

 as follows: 48 In Criminal Law Cases and Materials by

 . K.D.Gaur, the learned author referring to the decision reported

 in Rao Harnarain Singh, Sheoji Singh v. State (AIR 1958 Punjab 123) observed as follows: 49 In Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume 75, at page

 475 it is observed as follows: 50 A reading of the above literature would show that

 consent means an act of reasoning accompanied by

 deliberation, the mind weighing, as in a balance, good and evil

 on either sides. Consent supposes three things; (i) a physical power, (ii) a mental power, and (iii) free and serious use of them. 51 Consent given under a misconception is invalid if

 the person to whom consent is given is aware of its existence. An honest misconception by both the parties however does not

 invalidate the consent. Consent obtained by false

 representation which leads to misconception of facts will not be ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 37 valid consent. If the consent is obtained by (i) intimidation, (ii)

 force, threat, coercion or undue influence, it is to be treated as

 a delusion and not as a free and deliberate act of mind (See Cr. . A. No. 614/2006 (F), titled Sunil Kumar vs. State of Kerala ,

 decided on 22.5.2013). 52 The Court cannot be oblivious to the fact that there

 were as many as three persons, i.e. appellants and respondent

 of
 No.2, who have now been charged with the offence of gang-rape. 53 A mere act of helpless resignation in the face of
 rt
 inevitable compulsion, quiescence non-resistance passive giving

 in, when volitional faculty is either clouded by fear or vitiated

 by duress, cannot be deemed to be 'consent' as understood in

 law. This was so held by Punjab and Haryana High Court in Rao Harnarain Singh, Sheoji Singh v. State (AIR 1958

 Punjab 123), wherein even though the court was considering

 an application for bail, it was contended on behalf of the

 accused that even assuming that there is sexual intercourse,

 the victim had consented to the same. The victim was no more. One of the main contentions was that there was no signs of the

 victim having offered resistance. Considering the question of

 consent in that context, it was held as follows: 54 When there is a plea of consent, in our considered

 view, act of enticing away and rape is admitted unequivocally. One cannot blow hot and cold at the same time. In a plea of

 consent, the admission of incident is there and the accused has

 to prove the consent to secure his/there acquittal. 55 In order to establish 'consent' on the part of the

 prosecutrix, it has to be established by the convict that she

 freely submitted herself while in free and unconstrained

 . position of her physical and mental power to act in a manner

 she wanted. Consent is an act of reason accompanied by

 deliberation, a mere act of helpless resignation in the face of

 inevitable compulsion, non resistance and passing giving in

 of
 cannot be deemed to be consent. Consent means active will in

 the mind of a person to permit the doing of the act and
 rt
 knowledge of what is to be done or of the nature of the act that

 is being done is essential to a consent to an act. 56 The court cannot be oblivious to the fact that even

 though the prosecution has not been able to prove that the

 prosecutrix was minor, yet it has been established on record

 that at the time of incident, she was student of 9th standard

 and her evidence is required to be proved in this background. This Court has no hesitation to hold that the prosecutrix has

 established beyond any reasonable doubt that she had been

 gang-raped by the appellants and respondent No.2. 57 As regards medical evidence, it, in no manner,

 supports the case of the appellants. Even if it is assumed that

 there is conflict between oral as well as medical evidence, the

 ocular evidence would get credence and prevail over the medical ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS 40 evidence if the same is reliable and trustworthy as is the fact

 obtaining situation in the instant case. Therefore, the mere fact

 that there were no injury on the person of the prosecutrix

 . cannot be a ground to exonerate the appellants, more especially

 when the Court has come to the conclusion that the prosecutrix

 had not submitted herself in a free and unconstrained position

 of her physical and mental power but acted on account of

 of
 inevitable compulsion given the fact that there were three

 persons as against one lone and hapless victim. reprehensible crime in a society, as it is an assault on the body,

 mind and privacy of the victim. While a murderer destroys the

 physical frame of the victim, a rapist degrades and defiles the

 soul of a helpless female. Rape reduces a woman to an animal,

 as it shakes the very core of her life. By no means can a rape

 victim be called an accomplice. Rape leaves a permanent scar

 on the life of the victim, and therefore a rape victim is placed on

 a higher pedestal than an injured witness. 59 Rape is the most hated crime, which tantamounts to

 a serious blow to the supreme honour of a woman, and offends

 both, her esteem and dignity. It causes psychological and

 physical harm to the victim, leaving upon her indelible marks. Gang rape is all the more a serious and heinous offence. 60 The committal of gang rape is a beastly act and rape

 itself rather takes out the life from the life of victim. The scars

 of rape always remain engraved in her mind and she cannot

 . overcome throughout her life. Rape leaves physical as well as

 mental scars on the victim. Physical wounds may heal up, but

 the mental scar, though less visible are more difficult to treat. 61 In view of aforesaid discussions and for the reasons

 of
 stated hereinabove, while setting aside the judgment passed by

 the learned Special Judge with regard to the minority of the
 rt
 prosecutrix, we find that such findings do not have any bearing

 on the sentence as imposed by the Special Judge under the

 provisions of Indian Penal Code . Net result is that, we find no

 merit in the instant petition and the same is accordingly

 dismissed, so also the pending application(s), if any. (Tarlok Singh Chauhan)

 Judge

 (Ranjan Sharma)

 22.8.2023 Judge
 (pankaj) ::: Downloaded on - 22/08/2023 20:35:17 :::CIS