1. This Original Application (hereinafter referred to as „OA‟) has been

 registered in exercise of suo-moto jurisdiction in view of law laid down by

 Supreme Court in ( 2022) 13 SCC 401, Municipal Corporation of

 Greater Mumbai v. Ankita Singha & Ors. ) under Section 14 & 15 of

 National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as „ NGT Act,

 2010 ') on a letter petition dated 26.07.2023 sent by Prasher Dev Sharma. 2. Complainant has said that in Jagraon Municipal area, municipal

 officials are dumping solid waste in a pond and also littering garbage in

 the nearby area surrounding a temple namely "Maa Bhadar Kali Mandir" 3. Tribunal took cognizance of the complaint on 12.01.2024 and find

 itself prima-facie satisfied that substantial question relating to 1 environment has arisen out of implementation of the enactments

specified in Schedule-I to NGT Act, 2010 . Accordingly, it impleaded

following as respondents: Committee was required to submit its report within one month. 6. Pursuant, thereto, an interim report dated 23.02.2024 was filed by

Joint Committee through Environmental Engineer, PSPCB stating that

site under complaint was visited by Members of Joint Committee and it

was observed that pond was established on government land belonging to

Municipal Council, Jagraon. Maa Bhadar Kali Mandir, Kothe Rahla,

Jagraon is located in this pond area. Size of the pond is approximately 07

acres but it was almost dry. Municipal solid waste and old construction

and demolition waste was found lying in the pond. Members of Joint

Committee interacted with Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Jagraon

who informed that construction and demolition waste will be removed

and bio-remediation of legacy waste lying in the pond site would be

carried out. Remediation work would require sometime. Municipal 2 Council, Jagraon had started removal of construction and demolition

waste and called tenders for bio-remediation of legacy waste. In these

facts and circumstances, Joint Committee requested this Tribunal to

grant four months time to submit its report which may include action

plan for bio-remediation work of legacy waste lying at the site. 7. Respondent 3-PSPCB has filed a separate reply dated 23.02.2024

stating that Officers of PSPCB visited the site on 04.10.2023 and

observed as under: Stray cattle and stray dogs were also found present at dumped
 waste. There was also a small pond and one domestic water
 supply pump near the compliant site. MC Jagraon has again
 started dumping waste at old dump site. Daily waste
 generation of MC Jagraon is about 23 TPD. b) MC Jagraon has stopped dumping its waste at new dump site
 located at a distance of about 7 Km from main city in the
 revenue estate of Agwar Dala, Near Jagraon Rajbahaja of
 Abohar Canal. c) No piezometer has been installed at the site. Also, no weight
 bridge has been provided at the site. Further, no lighting
 arrangements provided at the dump site. d) MC Jagraon has not taken necessary precautions to
 minimize nuisance of odour, flies, rodants etc. e) Utilities such as drinking water and sanitary facilities have not
 been provided at the dumping site. f) Green belt provided around dump site is not adequate. g) Arrangements for diversion of storm water have not been
 provided at dump site. h) Provisions for management of leachate have not been
 provided at dump site. i) Non-permeable lining has also been not provided at dumping
 site." 8. In view of the violations noted by officials of PSPCB, show cause

notice dated 25.01.2024 was issued alleging violation of provisions of

Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 (hereafter referred to as „SWM, 3 Rules 2016'). PSPCB also granted opportunity of personal hearing to

respondent 2 i.e.-Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Jagraon by

appearing before Chairman, PSPCB on 12.02.2024. 9. For the period of July 2020 to September 2023, Environmental

Compensation (hereafter referred to as „EC‟) of Rs. 58 lakhs was already

imposed upon Municipal Council, Jagraon for violation of provisions of

SWM, Rules 2016. 10. Pursuant to show cause notice dated 25.01.2024, and after

affording personal hearing, PSPCB arrived at an opinion that further

environmental compensation for the period of violation from October

2023 to January, 2024 need be imposed. It is said that PSPCB is taking

due action in accordance with law against violators i.e. respondent 2. 11. Short affidavit/reply dated 10.04.2024 has been filed by

respondent 2- Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Jagraon stating that

legacy waste of 11000 metric ton has already been remediated through

agency and a couple of tenders for remediation of approximately 20,000

metric ton of legacy waste have already been issued to successful bidders.

Further, tenders for removal of garbage and reclamation of pond site has

also been received and finalization is in progress. Municipal Council has

planned to clean the site and develop it for welfare of the citizens.

Littering of garbage on the site by public and outsiders is strictly

prohibited and two employees have been deputed to take care of the site. 12. Above reports/replies were considered by Tribunal on 08.05.2024.

It had granted one month time to Joint Committee to submit its report

and Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Jagraon and District

Magistrate, Ludhiana were directed to take remedial measures for 4 ensuring compliance with SWM Rules, 2016 and file separate action

taken report within one month. 13. Consequently, respondent 2- Municipal Council, Jagraon has filed

action taken report dated 06.06.2024 vide email dated 13.06.2024

stating that remediation of 11,000 metric ton of legacy waste was carried

out vide tender dated 11.11.2022 for Rs. 46, 20, 000/-. For remediation

of 20,000 metric ton of waste, work order has been allotted vide two

tenders nos. 45 and 46 for worth Rs. 46,00,000/- and Rs. 50,00,000/-,

respectively. At present, work on the site is in progress and about 6000

metric ton has been remediated. Further, no new waste is being dumped

at a site and instead the same is being dumped at a new dumping site. To

make the site clean and green, 100 plants have been planted and 2000

plants are proposed to be planted. Wet waste material is being converted

bio-fertilizers and approximately 78 pits are working. Drain abutting the

site is being regularly cleaned and persons who throw waste material of

dairy farm in the drains have been served with notices. Some persons

under religious and political patronage have encroached upon the

property at site since long, in respect whereof, separate action has been

initiated. At the request of Municipal Council, Jagraon, demarcation of

the site was carried out by Revenue Department but final report is

awaited. For construction of shed, Municipal Council, Jagraon has

prepared estimate worth Rs. 51,73,000/- and for renovation and

remodeling of pond Rs. 99,32,000/- which is being sent to Punjab

Municipal Infrastructure Development Company, Chandigarh. Solid

waste is being cleared on daily basis and screen mesh has been installed

around water body/ponds for cleaning the same. Cleaning is being done

around temple on regular basis. 5 14. Joint Committee again submitted an interim report vide e-mail

dated 15.07.2024 wherein stand taken by Municipal Council, Jagraon in

its action taken report, virtually has been repeated/reiterated. 15. Joint Committee has also requested the Tribunal to pass

appropriate order for removal of encroachment from the site of the pond.

Relevant extract of interim report of Joint Committee reads as under: 16. Tribunal considered the matter on 16.07.2024 and found that

dumping at the site of the pond has stopped but started at a new site

without any authorization from competent authority under SWM Rules,

2016. Said continued dumping at another site was also illegal and

therefore, Tribunal warned the officers not to proceed in such manner

which is impermissible and contrary to statutory provisions and may

attract punitive and criminal action. 17. Sub Divisional Magistrate, Jagraon and Executive Officer,

Municipal Council, Jagraon who were present through virtual mode,

then, requested Tribunal to grant some time for compliance which was

allowed. 18. Another interim report has been submitted by Joint Committed

vide email dated 12.08.2024 sating that 3rd meeting of Joint Committee

was held on 19.07.2024 and thereafter progress shown by Municipal

Council with regard to management of solid waste and cleaning of pond

has been observed. Relevant extract of the report reads as under: 19. Joint Committee, thereafter, has sought further six week‟s time for

completion work of cleaning of pond and remediation of legacy waste by

Municipal Council, Jagraon. 20. Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Jagraon has submitted report

dated 02.09.2024 wherein work already undertaken and action plan for

carrying out the work within the time-line has been mentioned as under: About 14,300 MT (approx.) of legacy waste has been
 remediated out of about 20,000 MT (approx.) of legacy waste.
 About 72% (approx.) target of legacy waste remediation has
 already been achieved. At present, the remediation work is at
 halt due to rains. The Material segregated from the legacy
 waste is also being managed by this private agency. Below is
 the name of components segregated and their subsequent
 disposal methods by the agency: The Copy of the work order awarded along with copy of RDF
 certificates & Photographs pertaining to said remediation is
 attached herewith as Annexure-C 4). That around 22 tons (approx.) of garbage is generated daily
 from which 20 tons (approx.) of garbage is collected by
 Municipal Council, Jagraon through door to door collection.
 About 1.50 tons (approx.) of waste is being managed and
 processed by the bulk waste generators and about 0.50 tons
 (approx.) by people through home composting. At present 92%
 (approx.) segregation is being done from which 12.70 tons 10 (approx.) wet waste and 7.50 tons (approx.) dry waste (total
 20.20 tons out of 22.00 tons) is being segregated. Municipal
 Council, Jagraon has fixed target to achieve 97% (approx.) of
 segregation till 15/09/2024.Municipal Council Jagraon has
 constructed 78 pits where about 8.45 tons (approx.) of wet
 waste is processed for composting to produce organic manure.
 This organic manure is being used in parks and is also being
 sold by setting up stalls in the city from time to time and also
 distributed free of charge during various events i.e.
 Independence day, Republic day, Gandhi Jayanti, World
 Environment Day etc. About 2.25 tons (approx.)of bio-
 degradable (mostly vegetable waste) waste is sent to various
 gaushalas/cowsheds. Checking and necessary information is
 also being provided to bulk waste generators and to people
 doing home composting by Municipal Council Jagraon. The
 photographs pertaining to source segregation, Bulk waste
 generator, Home composting, wet waste processing and the
 receipts qua compost sale and free distribution Annexure-D. 5). That around 7.50 tons (approx.) of dry waste is being
 segregated by Municipal Council Jagraon. To process this dry
 waste Municipal Council, Jagraon has set up 02 MRF centres
 (Material Recovery Facility) at different places in
 the city. Separate compartments/sections have been
 made in these MRF centres for different types of dry materials
 such as all types of plastic material, wood, concrete material,
 metal, glass bottles, cardboard, rubber, jute bags, fabric
 material etc. With the help of bailing machines, bales of plastic
 material, jute bags and fabric materials are being prepared and
 sent to private companies (Ahuja Plastic recyclers Pvt. Ltd. and
 M/s Bala Ji Polymers) and also sold to local scrap material
 shops. Wood material is being Shreddered with the help of
 horticulture. shredding machine and after the processing, this
 material is used in compost pits. Concrete material is being 11 processed with C&D Grinder machines and outcome material is
 used to fill potholes etc. as required on various roads in the city
 and the record is kept in the log book. Apart from this, other
 materials i.e. metal, glass bottles, cardboard, rubber etc. taken
 by the rag picker workers and sold at scrap material shops at
 their own level. Municipal Council has made separate
 arrangements for collection of E-Waste by getting separate box
 installed at mobile & mobile repair shops and at other places.
 Municipal Council is not mixing any hazardous bio-medical
 waste with the regular solid waste but the medical waste is
 collected by the vehicle meant for the purpose of medical waste
 and is disposed off by the company. The photographs
 highlighting the dry waste processing followed by its sale
 (attached receipts), C&D waste processing, processing of
 Horticulture waste has appended herewith as Annexure-E. 6) That Municipal Council is strengthening the existing
 Infrastructure including 50 new pits for 100% processing of the
 daily waste. For this purpose MC has already received tenders
 and the work will be completed in 01 month. After the
 completion of upgradation and expansion of the infrastructure
 including new 50 pits for processing, the 100% processing will
 take place in 01 month. With the help of this, municipal council
 will be able to achieve the target source segregation of waste
 and processing of waste completely. The true copy of tenders
 floated and the existing machinery and infrastructure
 possessed by the council has been appended herewith as
 Annexure-F. 7). That no fresh waste is going on the new or old site near
 Bhadarkali Mandir and strict compliance in this regard is being
 made by the municipal council Jagraon. Waste disposal is being
 done as per Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 and PPCB
 guidelines. New CCTV cameras have also been installed at
 dump site to capture the real pictures by municipal council 12 Jagraon. The gate has also been installed and locked. The
 copies of the photographs highlighting the dump site area has
 been appended herewith as Annexure-G." 21. Applicant disputed the claim set up by Municipal Council, Jagraon

and filed its objections dated 10.09.2024 which show that legacy waste is

not entirely cleaned, pond is also not cleaned and solid waste is being

dumped regularly. 22. We find that Municipal Council, Jagraon has said that it is in the

process of clearing legacy waste which will take some time. Further, with

regard to pond cleaning, it is said that it has to be de-watered and due to

heavy rains, cleaning of pond could not be done and it will require about

four month‟s time. 23. With regard to encroachment on the land of the pond, it is said that

action for removal of encroachers has been taken under Public Premises

(Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants), Act, 1971 which is pending before

competent authority and in the light of the final order, appropriate action

will be taken. 24. Sh. Sukhdev Singh Randhawa, Executive Officer, Municipal

Council, Jagraon is present through virtual mode and stated that desired

results would be obtained by 31.12.2024 in respect of cleaning of pond,

clearance of legacy waste and also for arranging dumping/processing of

fresh waste in accordance with the provisions of SWM Rules, 2016. 25. In the circumstances, we direct respondent 2 to take all steps for

compliance of SWM Rules, 2016 with regard to restoration of pond land

including its cleaning, processing and disposal of legacy waste and

dumping of fresh solid waste in accordance with SWM Rules, 2016 by 13 31.12.2024 and submit a compliance report with Registrar General by

15.01.2025. 26. We also direct PSPCB to verify compliance of SWM Rules, 2016 on

the part of respondent 2, in the light of directions given herein above and

submit its report by 30.01.2025. 27. If any further order is required, Registrar General may place the

matter before Bench concerned. 28. With the above directions, original application is disposed of. Sudhir Agarwal, JM

 Dr. Afroz Ahmad, EM
September 19, 2024
Original Application No. 668/2023
JG. 14