The Appeal Suit is directed against the judgment and decree passed in

 O.S.No.63 of 2012, dated 03.02.2015 on the file of the I Additional District

 (PCR) Judge, Tiruchirappalli. 1/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 2. The suit is for declaration and recovery of possession. 3. Admittedly, the plaintiffs and the defendant are brothers and sisters

 and are the children of the deceased P.A.S.Manickkam. 4. The case of the plaintiffs is that their father P.A.S.Manickkam has

 purchased the suit property vide sale deed dated 19.11.1980 and put up

 constructions therein; that their father allowed his elder son/defendant to reside

 in the suit property; that the said P.A.S.Manickkam during his life time has

 executed a Will on 23.03.2001, giving the suit property to the plaintiffs; that

 after the demise of the said P.A.S.Manickkam, the Will was probated in the

 proceedings in T.O.S.No.11 of 2007 on the file of the High Court of Madras;

 that the plaintiffs sent a legal notice to the defendant on 30.04.2012,

 demanding the defendant to vacate and surrender the vacant possession of the

 suit property; that the defendant having received the notice, sent a reply with

 false and untenable allegations, that since the defendant denied the title of the

 plaintiffs and refused to comply with the notice demand, they were constrained

 to file the above suit to declare that the plaintiffs are the absolute owners of the

 suit property and for consequential relief, directing the defendant to vacate and 2/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 surrender the possession of the same and for payment of future profits to be

 fixed under Order XX Rule 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure . 5. The defence of the defendant is that he purchased the suit property as

 a vacant site on 19.11.1980, but taken the sale deed in the name of his father;

 that the defendant constructed a building in 1987 by spending Rs.2 lakhs; that

 the defendant has been in possession and enjoyment of the suit property since

 1987; that the defendant alone has been paying the house tax, electricity

 consumption charges, water consumption charges and that too in his name; that

 since the suit property is owned by the defendant, his father P.A.S.Manickkam

 has no right to execute any Will in favour of the plaintiffs in respect of the suit

 property; that his father has already filed a suit in O.S.No.740 of 2004 on the

 file of the District Munsif Court, Tiruchirappalli, against the defendant in

 respect of the suit property and since the other legal representatives were not

 impleaded in the suit, after his demise, the suit was ordered to be dismissed as

 abated, that the plaintiffs have no cause of action to the above suit and that

 therefore, the suit is liable to be dismissed. 3/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 6. Based on the above pleadings, the trial Court has recasted the issues: 7. During trial, the plaintiffs have examined the first plaintiff as P.W.1

 and exhibited eight documents as Ex.A.1 to Ex.A.8. The defendant has

 examined himself as D.W.1 and one Thiru.G.Vincent as D.W.2 and exhibited

 27 documents as Ex.B.1 to Ex.B27. 8. The learned trial Judge, upon considering the evidence both oral and

 documentary and on hearing the arguments of both the sides, has passed the

 impugned judgment dated 03.02.2015, granting the reliefs of declaration and

 possession as prayed for with costs and also granted liberty to take separate

 proceedings for future profits under Order XX Rule 12 C.P.C . Aggrieved by the

 impugned judgment and decree, the defendant has preferred the present appeal. 4/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 9. The learned counsel for the appellant would submit that the father of

 plaintiffs was an ex-service man and he was serving in other States of India till

 his retirement and after his retirement, he settled at Chennai and thereafter, he

 was living in his native village in Lalgudi Taluk for two years prior to his death

 and that he never lived in Trichy at any point of time and never claimed any

 right over the suit property till his life time. 10. The learned counsel for the appellant would further submit that the

 trial Court has failed to consider that the plaintiffs have not produced any

 documents to show that the suit property was purchased by their father from his

 own funds and constructed the building therein with the help of his own funds

 and that the learned trial Judge has failed to notice an important fact that the

 original documents with respect to the suit property were very much available

 with the defendant and the same were produced by the defendant before the

 trial Court. He would further submit that though the defendant has proved all

 the six aspects laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in considering the real

 owner of the property, the trial Court has miserably failed to consider those

 aspects; that the trial Court has arrived at the findings only on the basis of the

 presumption and assumption and that therefore, the impugned judgment and

 decree are liable to be interfered with. 5/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 11. The learned counsel for the respondents/plaintiffs would submit that

 they have proved that the suit property was purchased by their father through

 Ex.A.5 and Ex.A.6 and their father was permitted to withdraw Rs.9,100/- as

 non refundable amount by his employer National Seeds Corporation; that the

 appellant/defendant was only a student and was an apprentice in the year 1983

 and as such, he was not getting any income; that though the defendant had

 initially contested the probate proceedings in T.O.S.No.11 of 2007

 subsequently, remained ex-parte; that the defendant has not challenged the

 order passed in the probate proceedings; that the defendant has miserably failed

 to prove that the constructions were made by him with his own funds; that the

 plaintiffs were not parties to the suit in O.S.No.740 of 2004 filed by their father

 and the plaintiffs were not having any knowledge about that suit; that the cause

 of action to file the present suit has arisen only after getting the probate from

 this Court; that the receipts for payment of house tax, electricity consumption

 charges and water charges will not create or confer title on the defendant; that

 the defendant has absolutely no title or interest over the suit property and that

 the plaintiffs being the owners of the property are entitled to get the relief

 claimed and on that basis, the trial Court has rightly granted the decree as

 prayed for. 6/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 12. The points for consideration are : (ii) Whether the impugned judgment and decree dated 03.02.2015 on the

 file of the I Additional District (PCR) Judge, Tiruchirappalli, is liable to be

 interfered with ? (iii) To what reliefs, the parties are entitled ? 13. According to the plaintiffs, their father P.A.S.Manikkam has

 purchased the suit property and constructions were made therein by him from

 his own funds, whereas according to the defendant, the suit property was

 purchased by him and construction were made by him from his own funds. 7/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 14. Before entering into the legal plea with regard to the benami

 transaction, let us consider the case factually. 15. Admittedly, the sale deed in respect of the suit property, dated

 19.11.1980 under Ex.A.1 (Ex.B.3) stands in the name of

 P.A.S.Manicakm/father of the plaintiffs and the defendant. It is not in dispute

 that the said P.A.S.Manikkam, was in defence service and after his retirement,

 he was working in the National Seeds Corporation and more particularly, when

 the suit property was purchased in the year 1980. 16. The plaintiffs have produced the letter sent by National Seeds

 Corporation Limited to P.A.S.Manikkam, dated 05.01.1980 and the reply sent

 by P.A.S.Manikkam to his employer/ National Seeds Corporation Limited,

 dated 10.02.1981 under Ex.A.5 and Ex.A.6 respectively. It is evident from

 Ex.A.5 and Ex.A.6 that his employer/ National Seeds Corporation Limited has

 requested P.A.S.Manikkam to submit utilisation report for incurring non-

 refundable advance, which was sanctioned to him and for that P.A.S.Manikkam

 has sent a reply giving the particulars as to how that amount was utilized by

 him. It is clearly evident from the above that the National Seeds Corporation 8/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 Limited has permitted his staff P.A.S.Manikkam to withdraw the non-

 refundable amount of Rs.9,100/- for purchase of land and the same was utilized

 by him. 17. The defendant has produced the original sale deed under Ex.B.3

 along with receipts issued for payment of registration charges. As rightly

 observed by the learned trial Judge that there are slight variations, but the fact

 remains that the non-refundable advance amount received by the said

 P.A.S.Manikkam, is higher than the sale consideration under Ex.B.3. 18. According to the plaintiffs, the defendant was a student and was

 working as an apprentice in the year 1980. The defendant, during his cross

 examination would admit that he has completed his diploma course in the year

 1979. The defendant has alleged that he had worked in various concerns in

 Coimbatore, Trichy and Chennai, but, he has not produced any documents or

 materials to prove that he was employed in various concerns, after completing

 his course in 1979 and was getting surplus income so as to enable him to

 purchase the suit property. The defendant has only produced the identity card

 issued by E.S.I Corporation to the defendant on 27.04.1981 and the letter given

 by the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner to Indian Overseas bank, dated

 02.12.1983, but no documents for the period between 1979 and 1980. 9/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 19. D.W.1 would specifically say that he joined in Tamily Nadu

 Electricity Board as a tester and was getting Rs.1,000/- per month. But, he

 would add that though he was having the documents to prove the above

 aspects, he has not produced the same. He would say that he was working as an

 apprentice in TNEB in the year 1980, but he has not produced any documents

 to show the income received by him at that time and his evidence is extracted

 hereunder for better appreciation. “ehd; 1980 y; ntiy bra;njd; vd;W fhl;Ltjw;F Mtzq;fs; vJt[k;
 jhf;fy; bra;atpy;iy. ... 1980 y; ,Ue;J 1983 tiu tUkhdj;ij fhl;lf;Toa Mtzq;fs;
 jhf;fy; bra;Js;nsdh vd;why; ,y;iy. ... 1979 Kjy; gy;ntW jdpahh; epWtdj;jpy; ntiy bra;njd; vd;W
 fhl;Ltjw;F Mtzq;fs; vJt[k; jhf;fy; bra;atpy;iy. ehd; nrkpg;g[f; fzf;if
 itj;J jpUr;rpapy; kid thq;fpndd; vd;W brhy;ypa[s;nsd; vd;Wk; me;j nrkpg;ig

 fhl;Ltjw;F Mjhuk; jhf;fy; bra;Js;nsdh vd;why; ,y;iy.” 20. Even according to the defendant, the first plaintiff was residing with

 him in Trichy for sometime for her educational purpose. It is pertinent to note

 that D.W.1 in his cross examination would deny the suggestion that his father

 alone had provided money for him and her sister while they were at Trichy. 10/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 21. According to the defendant, his relationship with his father got

 strained at that time and hence, he was managing his affairs and expenses by

 himself. If that be so, the defendant has not produced any evidence or material

 to show that he was employed and was getting good income so as to enable him

 to maintain himself and to purchase the suit property in the year 1980. 22. Considering the above, this Court has no hesitation to hold that the

 defendant has miserably failed to prove that the suit property was purchased by

 him from his own funds. But on the other hand, the plaintiffs have proved that

 the property was purchased by their father. 23. As already pointed out, the defendant in his written statement has

 taken a stand that he constructed building in the year 1987 by spending

 Rs.2 lakhs. In his chief examination affidavit, he would say that he had

 constructed a small house in the year 1987 at the first instance and

 subsequently, improved the same stage by stage. In an attempt to prove that the

 building were made by him, he has produced the records to show that he

 obtained jewel loan, house building loan and loans from his

 employer/Electricity Board under Ex.B.6 to Ex.B.15. But, as rightly observed 11/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 by the learned trial Judge, Ex.B.13 letter issued by the Electricity System

 Employees' Co-op Thrift Society is dated 02.06.1989 and all other documents

 are for the period from 1992 – 1995. In cross examination D.W.1 would say

 that he constructed the first house in 1987 by spending Rs.25,000/- and that

 amount was borrowed by him. Though he would say that he was having the

 records to show that he borrowed Rs.25,000/-, he has not chosen to produce the

 same. 24. Admittedly, the defendant has not produced any permission or

 approved plan obtained from the Panchayat or other authorities for making

 constructions. As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiffs, the

 defendant has not produced any iota of evidence to show that he obtained loan

 in the year 1987 for constructing the buildings and the same were repaid by

 him. Considering the entire evidence available on record, the trial Court has

 rightly come to a decision that the defendant has failed to prove that

 constructions were made by him in the suit property. 25. It is not in dispute that the defendant has been in possession and

 enjoyment of the suit property and that he has been paying the house tax,

 electricity and water consumption charges. According to the plaintiffs, since the 12/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 defendant was in Trichy at that time, their father has permitted the defendant to

 reside in that property and on that basis, he has been in possession and

 enjoyment of the suit property. The defendant has examined his neighbor-

 mason, who allegedly constructed the building in the suit property as D.W.2and

 as rightly observed by the learned trial Judge, D.W.2 evidence has not

 advanced the case of the defendant further. 26. Now turning to the legal plea, it is the main contention of the

 plaintiffs that after the enactment the Benami Transaction (Prohibition) Act 1988), plea of benami cannot be taken either by way of suit or any claim or by

 means of written statement and hence, the defendant cannot set up the plea of

 benami and claim that he is the real owner and his father is ostensible owner. 27. The learned counsel for the appellant/defendant would submit that

 the sale transaction dated 19.11.1980 is a benami transaction wherein, the

 defendant is the true owner; that the plaintiffs are duty bound to prove that the

 property has been purchased by their father and that the person, who is

 claiming ownership have to prove the same and relied on the judgment of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Valliammal (dead) by LRs Vs. Subramaniam and

 others reported in (2004) 7 SCC 233, wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has 13/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 specifically held that the burden of proving that a particular sale is benami lies

 on the person who alleges the transaction to be a benami and spelt out the

 following six circumstances, which can be taken as a guide to determine the

 nature of the transaction and the relevant passage is extracted hereunder : 28. In the above decision case, the property was sold in execution of

 decree in the year 1927 and the sale deed in favour of the plaintiffs's wife was

 executed in the year 1933. Moreover, the above appeal was preferred before the

 Hon'ble Apex Court challenging the judgment passed in second appeal in

 S.A.No.1324 of 1983. 15/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 29. As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiffs,

 previously the concept of benami was accepted and recognized and the position

 got changed subsequent to the enactment of the Benami Transactions

 (Prohibition) Act, 1988 . No doubt, the Hon'ble Supreme Court after listing out

 six guidelines, has held that the above circumstances are not exhaustive and are

 given as a guidelines to find out the nature of the transactions. 30. At this juncture, it is necessary to refer Section 4 of Benami

 Transactions (Prohibition) Act. Section 4 : Prohibition of the right to recover the property held benami.

 (1) No suit, claim or action to enforce any right in respect of any

 property held benami against the person in whose name the property is held or

 against any other person shall lie by or on behalf of a person claiming to be the

 real owner of such property. (2) No defence based on any right in respect of any property held

 benami, whether against the person in whose name the property is held or

 against any other person, shall be allowed in any suit, claim or action by or on

 behalf of a person claiming to be the real owner of such property. 16/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 (3) Nothing in this section shall apply,-- (a) where the person in whose name the property is held is a coparcener

 in a Hindu undivided family and the property is held for the benefit of the

 coparceners in the family; or (b) where the person in whose name the property is held is a trustee or

 other person standing in a fiduciary capacity, and the property is held for the

 benefit of another person for whom he is a trustee or towards whom he stands

 in such capacity. Section 4 (3) contemplates that sub Sections 1 and 2 shall not apply

 where the person in whose name the property is held is a coparcener in a Hindu

 undivided family and the property is held for the benefit of the coparceners in

 the family; or where the person in whose name the property is held is a trustee

 or other person standing in a fiduciary capacity, and the property is held for the

 benefit of another person for whom he is a trustee or towards whom he stands

 in such capacity. 31.It is necessary to refer the decision of the Delhi High court in JM

 Kohli Vs. Madan Mohan Sahni and another reported in 2012 DHC 3107: Putting it differently, once Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the India
 Trusts Act, 1882 have been repealed, they cannot be brought in from
 the back door, so to say, by giving the same content contained in the
 repealed provisions of Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Indian Trusts
 Act, 1882 to Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. If we give such an
 interpretation, the entire Benami Act will fall and it will be as if the
 same has not been enacted. Therefore, Section 4(3)(b) which provides
 that the property which is held as a trustee or in a fiduciary capacity
 must be interpreted in the sense that the trustee or a person who is
 holding the property in a fiduciary capacity has either committed a
 fraud and got the property title in his name or is in furtherance of law
 holding property in his name however in the capacity of a trustee or
 in fiduciary capacity, although the real owner is somebody else. 9. Two of the examples where the Supreme Court has held the
 property to be held as a trustee in terms of Section 4(3)(b) of the
 Benami Act are the judgments in the cases of C. Gangacharan 18/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 V. C. Narayanan, 2000 (1) SCC 459 and P.V. Sankara Kurup V.
 Leelavathy Nambiar , 1994(6) SCC 68. In the case of C. Gangacharan (supra), the Supreme Court has held that the property was held as a
 trustee as per Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act, and the person in
 whose name the property stood cannot take up a plea of the bar of Benami Act , inasmuch as, actually the owner had given moneys for
 the property to be purchased under his name, however, the moneys
 were in fraud utilized to get the property purchased in the name of
 defendants in that suit. In the case of P.V. Sankara Kurup (supra) also
 the obvious fraud which was perpetrated was that the property was to
 be purchased in the name of the plaintiff by his attorney holder and
 which the defendants did not do and instead got the property
 purchased directly in their name. In the case of P.V. Sankara Kurup (supra), the Supreme Court was dealing with Section 66 of CPC as it
 existed before its repeal by Section 7 of the Benami Act and in the
 facts of the case as stated above it was held that the purchaser had
 acted in fiduciary capacity as an agent and consequently the bar of
 the Benami Act would not apply. In the said judgment , the Supreme
 Court held that when the agent was employed to purchase the
 property on behalf of his principal, however does so in his own name,
 i.e. the agent's name then upon conveyance or transfer of the
 property to the agent, he stands as a trustee for the principal. 10. Therefore, in certain cases where there is obvious breach of
 trust in purchasing the property in the name of a person, whereas it
 ought to have been purchased in the name of the principal or the real
 owner, Supreme Court has, to that limited extent, held that such 19/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 actions are covered under Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act and such
 transactions are not hit by the Benami Act .” 32. In the case on hand, it is not the specific case of the defendant that he

 gave the money to his father and requested him to purchase the property in his

 favour, but his father has taken the sale deed in his name. 33. It is the specific case of the defendant that he purchased the property

 in the name of his father. As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the

 plaintiffs, the defendant has canvassed a reason that he had taken the sale deed

 in the name of his father as a mark of respect. But, subsequently canvassed

 another reason that since he was unmarried at that time, he had taken the sale

 deed in the name of his father. But the defendant in his evidence would say that

 there was no cordial relationship between himself and his father. 34. In cross examination, he would say “mth; ve;j
 tUlj;jpy; ,Ue;J ,e;jpa tpij thhpaj;jpy; ntiy bra;jhh; vd;why; mtUf;Fk;
 vdf;Fk; ve;j bjhlh;g[ ,y;yhjhYk;> vd; tPl;ow;F tuhjjhYk;> ,e;j nfs;tpf;F
 vd;dhy; gjpy; brhy;y KoahJ. .... mg;nghjpypUe;nj vdf;Fk;> vd; jfg;gdhUf;Fk; ngr;R thh;j;ij ,y;iy
 vd;why; rhpay;y. ngr;R thh;j;ij ,Ue;jJ> g[hpjy; ,y;iy. ... 20/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 vdf;Fk;> vd; jfg;gdhUf;Fk; g[hpjy; ,y;yhjnghjpYk; brhj;J mth; bgahpy;
 thq;fpajw;F fhuzk; khpahij epkpj;jk;jhd;... 35. D.W.1 would say that his marriage was conducted by his father-in-

 law and not by his father. But he would admit that Ex.A8/marriage invitation

 does not contain the name of his father-in-law. As rightly contended by the

 learned counsel for the plaintiffs, even according to the defendant, he was not

 cordial with his father and if that be so, he has not offered any acceptable

 reason or explanation for taking the sale deed in the name of his father.

 According to the defendant, he got married in the year 1983. Though the

 defendant has alleged that he had taken the sale deed in the name of his father

 as he was unmarried at that time, he has not advanced any reason or

 explanation for not getting the property back from his father, after his marriage.

 As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiffs, except the

 reasons contemplated under clauses (a) and (b) of Section 4(3) of the said Act,

 there is absolutely no scope for the defendant to raise the plea of benami and

 claim that he is the real owner. 36.Admittedly, the defendant's father has filed a suit in O.S.No.740 of

 2004 against the defendant in respect of the suit property and that since the

 legal representatives were not impleaded subsequent to the death of the said 21/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 P.A.S.Manikkam, the suit was dismissed as abated. The learned counsel for the

 defendant would submit that the plaintiffs have not taken any steps to get

 themselves impleaded and as such, they are estopped from filing the present

 suit and claiming the relief of declaration and possession with respect to the

 suit property. 37. Admittedly, the plaintiffs were not parties to the suit in O.S.No.740

 of 2004. Moreover, the said P.A.S.Manikkam by alleging that he is the owner

 of the suit property, has laid the suit against the defendant for recovery of

 possession. According to the plaintiffs, their father P.A.S.Manikkam has

 executed a Will dated 23.03.2001 in favour of the plaintiffs and since the same

 was executed in Chennai, they have applied for probate in T.O.S.No.11 of 2007

 by impleading the defendant as a party therein and that though the defendant

 had initially contested the said case, subsequently remained ex-parte and this

 Court has granted probate. 38. As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiffs, though

 the defendant has alleged that he had challenged the order granting probate, he

 has not furnished the particulars of the proceedings taken by him before this

 Court or any other Court. Moreover, as rightly contended by the learned 22/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 counsel for the plaintiffs, cause of action for the plaintiffs to file the present

 suit has arisen after getting the order probating the Will. 39. Considering the above, the finding of the learned trial Judge that the

 plaintiffs being the owners of the property are entitled to get the reliefs of

 declaration and possession, cannot be found fault with and this Court is in

 entire agreement with the findings recorded by the learned trial Judge. Hence,

 this Court concludes that the appeal is devoid of merits and the same is liable to

 be dismissed. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and also the

 relationship between the parties, this Court decides that the parties are to be

 directed to bear their own costs and the above points are answered accordingly. 40. In the result, the above Appeal Suit is dismissed and the impugned

 decree and judgment in O.S.No.63 of 2012, dated 03.02.2015 on the file of the

 I Additional District (PCR) Judge, Tiruchirappalli, is confirmed. Parties are to

 be directed to bear their own costs. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous

 Petition is closed. 10.11.2023

 NCC : Yes :No
 Index : Yes : No
 Internet : Yes : No
 das 23/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 To 1.The I Additional District (PCR) Judge,
 Tiruchirappalli. 2.The Record Keeper,
 Vernacular Section,
 Madurai Bench of Madras High Court,
 Madurai. 24/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis A.S.(MD)No.85 of 2015 K.MURALI SHANKAR,J. das

 Pre-delivery order made in A.S(MD)No.85 of 2015 and M.P(MD)No.1 of 2015 10.11.2023 25/25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis