1. Rule. Learned APP waives service of notice
 of Rule on behalf of respondent-State. 2. This application is filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for
 regular bail in connection with F.I.R.
 No.11203024230784 of 2023 registered with
 'B' Division Police Station, District
 Junagadh. 3. Learned advocate for the applicant submits
 that considering the nature of offence and
 role attributed to the applicant, the
 applicant may be enlarged on regular bail by
 imposing suitable conditions. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/253/2024 ORDER DATED: 08/01/2024

 undefined 4. The learned APP appearing for the respondent
 State vehemently opposes the present
 application inter-alia contending that the
 applicant was running the call centre which
 was used for commission of offence and the
 said call center had engaged itself in
 commission of offence by contacting persons
 who used to stay at America who had
 purchased goods from the website of Amazon
 and some fraud was played with them and more
 than one crore has been siphoned by the
 present applicant. It is further submitted
 that though the Charge-sheet is filed,
 investigation is still in progress. He,
 therefore, submits that the offences which
 have been charged, are serious in nature and
 looking to the facts as well as the
 allegations made against the applicant, no
 discretion would be required to be
 exercised. 5. I have heard learned advocates appearing for
 the parties and perused the papers of
 investigation. From the record it appears
 that the investigation is over and Charge-
 sheet has already been filed. The role
 attributed to the present applicant is to Page 2 of 5 Downloaded on : Tue Jan 09 20:43:06 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/253/2024 ORDER DATED: 08/01/2024

 undefined

 the effect that the applicant was owner of
 the said call centre, which was raided by
 police authority on the basis of secret
 information and it was found that the call
 centre was engaged in commission of offence
 by contacting American citizens, who had
 purchased items from Amazon and their bank
 details were procured and on the basis of
 the same, sum of more than Rs.1 Crore has
 been siphoned away. Considering the same,
 the present application deserves to be
 allowed. 6. In the facts and circumstances of the case
 and considering the nature of allegations
 made in the FIR and without discussing the
 evidence in details as well as without going
 into details, prima-facie, this Court is of
 the opinion that this is a fit case to
 exercise the discretion to enlarge the
 applicant on bail. Hence, the application is
 allowed and the applicant is ordered to be
 released on bail in connection with the
 aforesaid FIR, on executing a bond of
 Rs.10,000/- with one surety of the like
 amount to the satisfaction of the trial
 Court and subject to the conditions that; NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/253/2024 ORDER DATED: 08/01/2024

 undefined (a) shall not directly or indirectly make
 any inducement, threat or promise to
 any person acquainted with the fact of
 the case so as to dissuade from
 disclosing such facts to the Court or
 any Police Officer or tamper with the
 evidence. (b) shall maintain law and order and not to
 indulge in any criminal activities. (c) shall furnish the documentary proof of
 complete, correct and present address
 of residence to the Investigating
 Officer and to the Trial Court at the
 time of executing the bond and shall
 not change residence without prior
 permission of the trial Court. (d) shall provide contact numbers as well
 as the contact numbers of the sureties
 before the Trial Court. In case of
 change in such numbers inform in
 writing immediately to the trial
 Court. permission of the Trial Court (g) surrender passport, if any, to the
 Trial Court within a week. If accused
 does not possess passport, shall file
 an Affidavit to that effect. 7. The authorities concerned shall release the
 applicant only if he is not required in
 connection with any other offence for the
 time being. If breach of any of the above
 conditions is committed, the Sessions Judge
 concerned will be free to issue warrant or
 take appropriate action in the matter. Bail
 bond to be executed before the lower court
 having jurisdiction to try the case. It will
 be open for the concerned Court to delete,
 modify and/or relax any of the above
 conditions in accordance with law. 8. At the trial, the concerned trial Court
 shall not be influenced by the prima facie
 observations made by this Court in the
 present order. 9. Rule made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct service is permitted. (M. R. MENGDEY,J)
NABILA Page 5 of 5 Downloaded on : Tue Jan 09 20:43:06 IST 2024