Ad: India’s Data Protection Bill is here, and your business needs to adapt. K&S Digiprotect, with its team of data protection experts, offers compliance services tailored to help you adapt to the new regulations, safeguard your data and build trust with your customers. Contact us now!

Imagine going to your favourite cafe and finding out the management has set up a facial data collecting camera inside premises. You would think that nothing of the update, assuming that the recording will only be used to screen customers. However, what if we told you that as per the latest version of India’s draft data protection Bill the cafe will not only collect this personal data but also process it? All of this will be thanks to provisions allowing ‘certain legitimate uses’ retained in the Digital Personal Data Protection Bill, 2023 [ PDF ].

Read the Bill Summary here .

What are ‘certain legitimate uses’? The Bill says that “A Data Fiduciary may process personal data of a Data Principal for any of following uses, namely:

As per the example provided in the Bill, this clause means that if a person provides their personal data to avail a specific government benefit like maternity benefit, the same data can be used to process benefits under other government schemes as well.

Essentially this means that legitimate use specifically depends on whether there is a ‘lack of objection’ against said processing of data. This takes an approach opposite to that of regular consent.

Article continues below ⬇ , you might also want to read:

Previous provisions talked of deemed consent: Last year, the government had introduced the concept of deemed consent in the data protection Bill. Now, while the provisions remain largely the same, the words ‘deemed consent’ have been replaced by ‘legitimate use.’ During MediaNama’s discussion on the previous version of the Bill, speaker Lalit Panda had called these provisions “an insult to personal autonomy.” According to Panda only the first sub-clause within the ‘Deemed Consent’ section qualified as “deemed consent.” The rest should be called “non-consensual consent or implied consent” he said. Another criticism was that the Bill did not state the purpose for such a manner of data processing.

Public interest is no longer grounds for processing personal data: Public interest’ is no longer one of the grounds for processing personal data. Last year, many stakeholders had voiced confusion and criticised this clause that included various other vague grounds like prevention of fraud. Last year, MediaNama’s Nikhil Pahwa talked about how the concept can also be used to process data on the public forum . Although two of the grounds under this clause have been shifted to exemptions, the removal of this provision is still welcome news.

Data cannot be retained for legal or business purposes: In the previous version, the Bill said that the officer responsible for the collection and processing of personal data – called a Data Fiduciary – must ensure the erasure of all data once it has served its “legal or business purpose.” This meant that entities, like a bank, could keep the data you had shared with them to open a savings account even after the account closed due to “legal reasons.” The new version removes this phrasing altogether, although there are exemptions in the Bill relating to debts, mergers and corporate restructuring transactions.

No need to issue notice for legitimate purposes: The Bill says that notices detailing the type of personal data and the purpose for its processing will only be required for consent provisions. This means that notice will not be required in case of legitimate purposes.

Since the introduction of deemed consent last year, experts have been unsure whether the officer in-charge of intimating and requesting user consent has to send notice to users under deemed consent. Typically these officers or data fiduciaries are supposed to send an itemised notice describing in clear language the personal data sought to be collected and the purpose of processing of the same. However, it’s unclear as to how this applied to ‘deemed consent.’

Vinay Narayan, a researcher at Apti Institute, similarly criticised this concept for aiding in the processing of an individual’s data without adequately safeguarding their rights and interests.

How the issuance of notice has evolved over the years

Provisions relating to notice have been a part of the Bill since it’s original version was drafted in 2018. The only case wherein it was not applicable was if it “substantially prejudiced” data processing. It even specified that the officer has to provide the user with certain information on:

Later, in 2019 the Bill wanted of “consequences” on failing to provide such data.

The 2018 version of the Bill introduced a “lawful processing” provision without consent for personal data if it is necessary for the function of the Parlaiment of State legislature, compliance with court, prompt action or employment. However, the 2019 version, deleted this provision and instead said that consent is “necessary for processing of personal data”. It also stated that consent will be invalid unless it is free, informed, clear, specific, and capable of being withdrawn. These purposes were then completely revamped in the 2022 Bill that introduced ‘deemed consent’ for the first time in the Bill. The only significant departure of the 2023 version from this version was the exclusion of the following grounds for deemed consent under public interest:

“(a) prevention and detection of fraud;

(b) mergers, acquisitions, any other similar combinations or corporate restructuring transactions in accordance with the provisions of applicable laws;

(c) network and information security;

(d) credit scoring;

(e) operation of search engines for processing of publicly available personal data;

(f) processing of publicly available personal data; and

(g) recovery of debt;

(9) for any fair and reasonable purpose as may be prescribed after taking into consideration.”

Note: The headline was changed on August 3 at 6:50 PM for clarity.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event