SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: CRED and it's shady practice
DATE: 2023-04-27
SCORE: 377
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/130hc76/cred_and_its_shady_practice/

--- POST TEXT ---

We all know and have felt there's something not right with cred. Lately I have encountered another issue with them and their app.

Cred is pushing people to pay via CRED pay by luring with cashbacks (their cashbacks are anyways shit). I too started using cred pay. I encountered major flaw in it. It doesn't wait for OTP to be entered manually while completing the transaction. This isn't the bad part, the bad part is, there's no option in their app to disable the option of cred pay. You can't even delete it from the merchant sites as payment method. So once you have used cred pay as payment method on any app, it's going to be there forever. Their customers support is the most useless I came across. When I asked them how do I disable cred pay, they are like please continue to use cred pay, you'll get cashbacks instead of answering my simple question of how to disable it as I don't feel safe using it. Apparently there's no option on the app and they know it. They promised to tell me in 24hrs I'll get a call from them to resolve my issue and it's been 48hrs already with no response.

For a company dealing with credit cards albeit third party having such a big flaw and the most pathetic customer support is enough reason to stay away from it. Just imagine when you actually come across some major issues with your credit card such as theft or unauthorised transaction or your credit card bill not getting credited on time ( happened with many already) be assure cred won't come to your rescue.

If anyone here uses cred pay, knows how to disable it, please let me know.

#Rant not over yet.
We belong to the most savy generation but their app is so f*cking complicated even for us (Tell me I'm wrong). Their design is the most pathetic I've come across. Every time you open, the app is just screaming and pounds on you with all the crap and BS and all the Important stuff is all hidden under some tab and difficult to find. (On purpose?) For a company that advertised itself that they will tell us about the hidden charges CC levies they themselves using shady practices like my above rant. Ulta chor kotwal ko daate?

What exactly is their core business proposition? At this point I don't even know what they are actually offering. Weren't they supposed to be a company that helps us manage our credit card. Have they diverted to being another marketplace? Are they affiliate marketing company trying to sell us all the products? Is our data &amp; info even safe with them at this point? IMO they have lost it and are totally out of sight. 

Why are they so creepy? I got a new credit card and I had decided not to link this to cred. Less than 30 seconds on receiving a mail from CC company on activation, I get a notification from the app to link my new cc ending xxxx on priority. Seriously? F*ck off 

Sigh!