SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I gave my aadhar details to a scammer. What is the worst damage they can do??
DATE: 2024-05-15
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1csfmqt/i_gave_my_aadhar_details_to_a_scammer_what_is_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

I woke up to a call from dsl saying my parcel delivery was cancelled . This was an automated call. Then it said to press 1 to speak to a customer care executive. I talked to the guy and he said my parcel was cancelled due to illegal content(drug) and if I didn't do it then I have to lodge a complaint to Mumbai police and forwarded my call to another number. lol it even said Mumbai police while I was waiting. Then this new guy asked me all the detail about where I live and where have I given my Adhar details etc. Before giving any personal information I thought this maybe some elaborate scam so I asked him if he was the police and he immediately interrupted me and started asking more questions. So i gave him all the answers. It seemed odd but i still thought this might be true. Then he told me I have to lodge an online complaint and to do that I have to download Skype and search Mumbaipolice663something on Skype and then send them my name and wait for a video call. Then after like 10 min video call came from the Skype from them and asked me to open my camera and asked all the detail about my Adhar and all my address and I gave them to her. She even asked me to hold my Adhar in front of camera to 'verify', so I did. Then she said i am waiting from an update from headquarters regarding your Adhar detail please wait.
Now this girl was speaking in perfect English and said she was ips and every time she would speak she would unmute herself then mute again. This happened several times and it bugged me. Then she was talking about my family and suddenly said, "wait stop there is an update from headquarters" and then in the background this voice came from like a radio or something. This time she didn't mute this time so that I can hear what the radio guy said. The radio guy said that I am a big and dangerous criminal and I have multiple cases of drug distribution and money laundering cases and that I should be arrested immediately. That moment right then I understood it was all fake. Then the girl from the call started her police talk iykyk. I tried to give some explanation but she was in her police mode and was very fake furious. When she wouldn't listen anything i started laughing almost like a villain lol. I told them, "You guys made me such a genius. I am a drug distributor as well as money launderer. I am like the one man army lol. Like some movie hero or something". Then the girl was so furious it was comical lmao she started saying this isn't a joke that I should live in fear and they contacted my local police Dept. To arrest me and my family members. At this point I had enough of it and I told her she needs more practice and find something else to do and disconnected the call.
So my question to all of you guys is what can they do with my personal information??