Update: On May 10, 2023 the CIO News reported Odisha police’s use of the ASTR facial recognition system to disconnect over 52 thousand telecom connections. Before that The Hindu reported that police officials used the same system to block nearly 56 thousand fake SIM cards in the state.

Another day, another instance of state police in India using facial recognition for solving crimes. On April 20, 2023, Times Now reported how the Gujarat police found at least 29,552 fake SIM cards in the state using Artificial Intelligence and Facial Recognition Powered Solution for Telecom SIM Subscriber Verification ( ASTR ). The first instance of this AI tool was reported by Nuh police in Haryana.

As per the report, 37 persons from across Gujarat were arrested by the CID’s cybercrime cell and Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) last week after analysing a database of 8.12 crore telecom subscribers using ASTR. Most of these cards were activated between 2020 and 2022 – the pandemic period.

Why it matters: The use of facial recognition to cull out fake sim-card holders means that the police are essentially carrying out facial recognition of all subscribers without their informed consent. This violates people’s fundamental right to privacy enshrined within Article 21 . Although ASTR was originally meant to be used by the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) Haryana LSA unit , we are now getting reports of other state police using the technology as well. Does this mean we can finally start asking the government about possible legislation around facial recognition and other AI tools being used by law enforcement agencies?

Some burning questions from MediaNama: After our explainer on ASTR, MediaNama  sent RTI applications to the Department of Telecommunications regarding the AI. Most recently, we asked which entity got the contract for ASTR. However, considering the department’s previous responses, it is yet to be seen whether the government complies with our request. In previous RTI queries, we asked the government:

We still do not have any concrete answers.

No response on privacy even in Parliament: MediaNama is not alone in asking detailed questions about ASTR. On February 3, Rajya Sabha members Rajani Ashokrao Patil and K.C. Venugopal asked the department about storage and security details of the data collected through ASTR. The government simply replied that it was maintaining data in a secured server as per due security measures. Isn’t it time the government be more forthright about its approach to AI use?

Note: This article was updated with more instances of ASTR use by police departments in India at 11 AM on May 11, 2023 to mark the growing use of facial recognition by the police.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event