This writ petition is directed against the impugned charge memo dated 6.7.2017 issued by the disciplinary authority/the Chief Manager, Bottom Bench, Mine IA, Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited, Neyveli. The petitioner, who was appointed in the Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited as IW.Grade I, was given promotion as Technician Gr.III(C), Technician Gr.II(B) and Technician Gr.I(A) under the time bound promotion scheme and further promoted as Senior Technician Grade II and Grade I on 1.9.2004 and 1.9.2008 respectively. He was again further promoted as Chief Technician on 1.9.2012. He is also one of the elected Vice Presidents of CITU NLC Labour Staff Union, which is one of the recognised unions. Since the news about the outsourcing of mining work by the Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited appeared in a daily newspaper Theekathir and subsequently uploaded in the timeline of the petitioner's facebook account by one of his friends, the disciplinary authority/fifth respondent herein, mistaking that the petitioner had posted some derogatory remarks and comments in his facebook account which is open to public view containing unverified and unsubstantiated allegations criticising the policies of the Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited including certain contracts awarded for outsourcing overburden removal in mines to private contractors, issued a charge memo on 6.7.2017 in Memo No.Mine-IA/HR/DA/28/2017 levelling five charges, which are given as under,
CHARGE NO.1
Shri S.Thiruarasu, CPF No.36562, Chief Technician, Mine-IA has posted derogatory remarks and comments in his Facebook account which was open to public view containing unverified and unsubstantiated allegations, criticizing NLCIL's policies and certain decisions including certain contracts awarded for outsourcing overburden removal in Mines to private contractors M/s BGR and M/s Mahalakshmi, making baseless allegations of irregularities calling for CBI investigation on the issue which exposed the company's reputation and prestige to the risk of great damage impacting its business. By posting the disparaging comments on his Facebook account, he criticized policy and business decision of the company without any basis or information and thereby he has propagated rumor and false information through online social media which is open to public view without obtaining any permission from the Management contravening the provisions of the Standing Orders. CHARGE NO.2
Shri S.Thiruarasu, CPF No.36562, Chief Technician, Mine-IA has posted derogatory remarks and comments in his Facebook account containing false and unverified allegations against the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh portraying him as a member of RSS, strong supporter of a particular religion and a person who always offers controversial remarks which affray the public and which is highly defamatory in nature. By posting the disparaging comments on his Facebook account, he defamed person & character of Hon'ble Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh portraying him as a fake religious guru and has become Chief Minister merely by reason of being a supporter of RSS and not by contesting in assembly elections, which amounts to an act subversive of discipline and in contravention to the instructions of the management. CHARGE NO.3
Shri S.Thiruarasu, CPF No.36562, Chief Technician, Mine-IA has posted derogatory remarks and shared comments in his Facebook account carrying defamatory allegations and personally abused the Hon'ble Prime Minister of India by equating him with Adolf Hitler. He has also criticized that the Media i.e., of acting at the whims and fancies of the Corporate World, which is supported by Mr.Narendra Modi led Govt.of India, with an intent to defame the person and character of the Hon'ble Prime Minister and to malign the reputation of the Central Government in general, which amounts to an act subversive of discipline and in contravention to the instructions issued by the Management. CHARGE NO.4
Shri S.Thiruarasu, CPF No.36562, Chief Technician, Mine-IA has posted derogatory comments in his Facebook account page carrying false accusations and allegations against the Hon'ble Governor of Tamilnadu intentionally insulting and defaming his office and character alleging that the Hon'ble Governor of Tamilnadu has remained indifferent and continued his stay in New Delhi without taking any action for a stable political situation in Tamilnadu. He has also posted disparaging comments demanding Hon'ble Governor should act without getting involved in any gambling thereby questioned the scope and authority of the highest office of the State with an intent to provoke breach of peace in the State, which amounts to an act subversive of discipline and in contravention to the instructions issued by the Management. CHARGE NO.5
Shri S.Thiruarasu, CPF No.36562, Chief Technician, Mine-IA indulged in the act of cyber stalking by spreading rumors and false and unverified allegations against NLCIL and the Government with derogatory remarks/comments on his facebook account page, to disrepute the company's image and prestige in the public. By posting such false and misleading information in his facebook account open to the employees and public at large about the company, the company's reputation and image was exposed at stake amongst the stakeholders and public in general, which amounts to an act subversive of discipline and in contravention to the instructions issued by the Management.,
with a direction to submit his explanation to all those five charges within three days. 2. Assailing the validity of the charge memo, Ms.R.Vaigai, learned senior counsel for the petitioner heavily contended that when the petitioner is not a Government servant, no conduct rules can prohibit him from criticising either the Prime Minister of India or the Chief Minister of U.P., or the former Governor of Tamil Nadu. When the petitioner is the Vice President of CITU NLC Labour Staff Union, which is also one of the recognised unions, the union is duty bound not only to voice and redress the grievance of the workmen, but also the union is entitled to submit the demands, to hold negotiations with the management, to reach a settlement with the management either bilaterally or trilaterally before the Labour Department. Only in order to carry out the mining operations, the respondent Corporation have made huge investments for the purchase of various kinds of conventional earth moving equipments and specialised mining equipments, conveyors etc., and for erection, maintenance of plants and machineries. Besides, when the contract labour system in the mining and other allied works in coal mines is prohibited by the Government of India, Ministry of Labour in its notification issued in S.O.Nos.498 & 2063 dated 1.2.75 and 21.6.88 respectively, which were issued under Section 10 of the Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act, 1970, a settlement was reached in the year 1995 and pursuant to the orders issued by this Court, the respondent Corporation has prepared the seniority list of contract labourers containing the names of 10,632 labourers for absorption in the respondent Corporation. When the said process is still going on, the respondent Corporation, contrary to the prohibition notification, affecting the employment and other conditions of service of serving employees, is attempting to entrust the mining work in Mine II, Old S4 area, BBS North Flank area to the outside agency through outsourcing. Objecting to the above method of the respondent Corporation, the CITU NLC Labour and Staff Union, finding no reply from the management, has raised an industrial dispute before the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Puducherry on 30.12.2016 and the conciliation proceeding is still pending. However, since the respondent Corporation has made an attempt to outsource the mining work in the mines during the pendency of the conciliation proceedings without getting any prior permission, the union filed W.P.No.1096 of 2017 to quash the tender notification dated 2.12.2016 with an additional prayer not to outsource any work in all the three mines and also not to alter the service conditions of the workmen adversely in any manner till the dispute raised before the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) is either settled or adjudicated. The said writ petition is also pending with the issuance of notice to the other side. In this regard, the State committee also expressed its concern and wrote an article in the Theekathir daily and the said news about the outsourcing of mining work by the NLC was uploaded in the timeline of the petitioner's facebook account by one of his friends. The said messages were also forwarded from one account to another in the whatsapp and it is unknown as to who was the author of those messages forwarded in the whatsapp. Moreover, when some of his friends in his facebook group had posted these messages in the timeline of his facebook account, the fifth respondent cannot issue the charge memo dated 6.7.2017 alleging that the petitioner has posted derogatory remarks and comments in his facebook account containing false allegations criticising the policies of Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited including certain contracts awarded for outsourcing overburden removal in mines to private contractors. As the impugned charge memo and the order for holding enquiry have been issued without jurisdiction, they are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 3. Adding further, Ms.R.Vaigai submitted that the impugned charge memo and the consequential enquiry notice issued against the petitioner for the alleged posting of articles on his face book account is unconstitutional, for the simple reason that they sought to deprive of and take away the petitioner's right to freedom of expression, which is a guaranteed fundamental right to the citizens under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The charge memo issued under the Standing Orders are only a subordinate legislation, therefore, they cannot take away the right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, because these rules and standing orders or instructions cannot override the Constitution. So far as the criticism of the policies of the Government is concerned, it is prohibited only for the employees of NLC India Limited and the government servants and so far as the petitioner and other workmen are concerned, they are governed by the Certified Standing Orders. Since the NLC Employees Conduct Rules cannot be made applicable, the respondents cannot take any disciplinary action by issuing the impugned charge memo for the alleged criticism of the policies of the Government and the respondent Corporation. Even in case of government servants who are governed by the similar conduct rules like NLC Employees Conduct Rules, the Apex Court and also this Court have repeatedly held that the rules prohibiting totally such fair and constructive criticism when it is part of the right to freedom of expression are unconstitutional and violative of Article 19(1)(a) read with Article 13(2) and further held that the rules framed under Article 309 cannot override the rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). 4. Continuing further, Ms.Vaigai, the learned senior counsel submitted that when the union has already raised an industrial dispute on the same issue against the illegal outsourcing of the mining work, they have also given a criminal complaint requesting to take criminal action against the respondents for employing contract labourers in mining work with a prayer for absorption of those contract employees. When a criminal complaint against the respondents was filed for violation of the Certified Standing Orders and for having issued instructions and taking action against the workmen for their legitimate trade union activities without getting amendment to the Standing Orders as provided in law, during the pendency of these proceedings, the respondents are trying to precipitate the above proceedings and they are trying to prevent the petitioner and other members from pursuing the above proceedings, which is a clear case of mala fide and vindictive action. Ms.Vaigai emphatically submitted that the postings found in the petitioner's facebook account were not posted by him and he is not the author of the same. Hence the respondents have no power or jurisdiction to issue the impugned charge memo and initiate disciplinary proceedings against him. Moreover, the charge nos.1 and 5 would not amount to writing or disclosure of any information or document relating to the company. Taking support from a judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Vijay Shankar Pandey v. Union of India and another , (2014) 10 SCC 589, it was argued that the Apex Court has held that making allegations of maladministration do not fall within its ambit. 5. The learned senior counsel further contended that the charge no.5 alleging the petitioner that his conduct in posting disparaging comments on his facebook account are contravening the instructions issued by NLCIL management and in breach of the orders contained in the NLCIL Standing Order Nos.25 and 33 are no way connected to the establishment of the respondent Corporation, for the reason that the alleged acts would not constitute misconduct under the Standing Orders 25 and 46 and also 25 and 33. Therefore, the petitioner also submitted a detailed explanation on 28.7.2017 requesting them to drop all further proceedings, which have not evoked any response. Moreover, when the impugned charge memo is not supported with any document and besides the presiding officer also, during the course of the enquiry, informed the enquiry officer that there was no witness on the side of the management. That shows that without any document and management witness, they cannot simply issue the charge memo. 6. Continuing further, the learned senior counsel contended that the charges levelled against the petitioner under charge nos.2 to 5 are no way connected to his employment. Hence, when the charge memo itself has been issued without supporting document and witness to substantiate the same, the consequential initiation of the disciplinary proceedings being without jurisdiction and without any basis, should be quashed by this Court. Taking heavy reliance on the Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case of G.Arasukumar and others v. State Bank of India rep.by its Assistant General Manager, Chennai and others, 2015-3-LW 849, the learned senior counsel contended that the law has been well settled by this Court that the publication or distribution of hand bills is a recognised fundamental right. On this basis, this Court has held that the action of the trade union and its office bearers in putting up posters cannot be detrimental to the interest of the bank if the substance of those allegations are not denied. Merely for the reason of criticising the policies of the Government and the respondent Corporation is made, without keeping in mind that the industrial growth leading to economic prosperity depends wholly on the health of the employers and employees, to convey a message that an employee has no right to write letters containing defamatory passages and there is no fundamental right vested on him under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, the present charge memo has been issued. A perusal of the contents of the charge nos.1 & 2 that the petitioner had posted derogatory remarks and contents in his facebook account which is open to public view, do not disclose any misconduct. Merely because he has exposed some irregularities, that will not affect the commercial interest of the respondents as alleged in the charge memo. On the other hand, only by such exposures, correctional measures can be taken and the respondents can assure the general public that all is well with them. The respondents being a public authority, owe a duty to disseminate information even suo motu. Therefore, the respondents need not unnecessarily feel touchy about some irregularities in the public involved matters in outsourcing the mining work. 7. Again referring to the explanation given by the petitioner on 28.7.2017 taking a stand that he was prepared to take part in the enquiry to be held by the respondents to substantiate his conduct in posting derogatory remarks and comments in his facebook account and thereafter coming to this Court to quash the impugned charge memo, placing reliance on the judgment of the Apex Court in Olga Tellis and others v. Bombay Municipal Corporation and others , (1985) 3 SCC 545, the learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that even a written undertaking given by the petitioner agreeing inter alia to take part in the enquiry, cannot be put against the petitioner. When a similar undertaking was given by the appellants in Olga Tellis case agreeing to vacate the huts on or before October 15, 1981 and not to obstruct the public authorities from demolishing them, they cannot be estopped from contending in the Court that the huts put up by them on pavements cannot be demolished, because a concession made by a party in a proceeding, whether under a mistake of law or otherwise, that he does not possess or will not enforce any particular fundamental right, cannot create an estoppel against him in that or any subsequent proceeding, for, such a concession, if enforced, would defeat the purpose of the Constitution. Finally, restating the stand taken by the petitioner that the allegation of maladministration if made by an employee or workman, the same would not amount to breach of the Standing Order Nos.25 and 33. Therefore, the impugned charge memo is liable to be quashed. 8. A detailed counter affidavit has been filed by the respondents opposing the maintainability of the writ petition. Mr.N.Nithiyanandam, learned standing counsel for the respondents, objecting to the maintainability of the writ petition, raising a preliminary issue, submitted that when the petitioner has actively participated in the enquiry for more than 10 hearings, after completion of the evidence of the respondent management and he also examined two witnesses on his behalf without any protest and those witnesses were also cross examined on behalf of the respondent management, it is highly inappropriate on the part of the petitioner to come to this Court challenging the charge memo. The writ petitioner challenging a charge memo is also not maintainable, as per the ratio laid down by the Apex Court in Union of India and another v. Kunisetty Satyanarayana , (2006) 12 SCC 28, wherein the Apex Court has held clearly that ordinarily no writ lies against the charge sheet or show cause notice, for the reason that at the stage of charge sheet the writ petition may be held to be premature. Moreover, a mere charge sheet or show cause notice does not give rise to any cause of action, because it does not amount to an adverse order. In any event, the enquiry officer having held the enquiry with 12 sittings and completed the enquiry proceedings and posted the matter for filing written submission on 10.1.2018, at the stage of finalisation of the report, the petitioner cannot come to this Court. Now this Court should allow the enquiry officer to submit his report, based on which the disciplinary authority, after inviting further written representation to the report of the enquiry officer from the petitioner, should pass a final order whether the charges levelled against the petitioner are made out or not. 9. Even on merits, the learned standing counsel for the respondents submitted that the petitioner has not come to this Court with clean hands, since he has taken double stand. Firstly, when the petitioner joined the company on 14.8.90 as Industrial Worker Grade I, on the promotions given to him, he is presently working as Chief Technician in Mine IA. While so, he indulged in posting derogatory remarks and comments in his facebook account which is open to public view. As the derogatory remarks and baseless comments against the functioning of the respondents were posted without verification criticising the company's policies and certain decisions including certain open tender contracts awarded for outsourcing for overburden removal in mines to private contractors making baseless allegations of irregularities and unverified allegations against the Hon'ble Prime Minister of India, Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and the former Governor of Tamil Nadu, with a mala fide intention to spread wrong rumours and false allegations. These acts of the petitioner are misconduct falling under Certified Standing Order Nos.20, 25, 33 and 46 of the respondent Corporation and also in breach of the circular No.CORP/P&A/720/0800/2007 dated 25.10.2010 and the proceedings No.CORP/HR/RULES/1913/2012 dated 16.2.2012 issued by the respondents. Being an employee, without any responsibility, has made baseless allegations without proper verification, he was issued with the charge memo on 6.7.2017 containing five charges asking him to submit his explanation. Curiously, the petitioner submitted his explanation on 28.7.2017 denying the charges categorically stating that he is willing to participate in the domestic enquiry to explain the charges. When the petitioner has come forward with his written explanation inviting the disciplinary authority to hold an enquiry, enabling the petitioner to substantiate the charges levelled against him, the disciplinary authority, accepting his request, appointed an enquiry officer to enquire into the charges. Thereupon the enquiry officer conducted enquiries on various dates, namely, on 20.9.2017, 4.10.2017, 10.10.2017, 27.10.2017, 14.11.2017, 17.11.2017, 22.11.2017, 2.12.2017 & 12.12.2017. After attending all these hearings, at the stage of finalisation of the disciplinary proceedings, the petitioner cannot file this writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Secondly, even after filing of the writ petition on 19.12.2017, the petitioner attended the enquiry on 19.12.2017, 26.12.2017 and 5.1.2018. The enquiry officer posted the enquiry on 10.1.2018 for filing of the written submission by the presenting officer. In the enquiry, he was permitted to engage a defence assistant and the petitioner also actively participated in the enquiry without any protest. Only after completion of the evidence of the management, the petitioner himself has examined two witnesses on his side and those witnesses were also cross examined by the respondents. Moreover, the petitioner did not raise any objection during the course of enquiry. Now the domestic enquiry has reached the final stage of completion. At this juncture, the writ petition challenging the charge memo dated 6.7.2017 is impermissible in law, as it is a premature one. 10. Continuing further, the learned standing counsel for the respondents submitted that the scope of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has been crystallised by the Apex Court in Union of India and another v. Kunisetty Satyanarayana , (2006) 12 SCC 28 holding that ordinarily a writ petition should not be entertained against the show cause notice and the writ petition should be dismissed, more particularly, when the enquiry officer has completed the enquiry and is about to file the enquiry report. Again placing reliance on the judgment of the Apex Court in M.H.Devendrappa v. Karnataka State Small Industries Development Corporation , (1998) 3 SCC 732, he has pleaded that the Apex Court, while dealing with a similar misconduct committed by the appellant-employee of the Corporation, who was the then President of the Employees' Welfare Association, for addressing a letter to the Governor of Karnataka stating that the Corporation was likely to be wound up on account of bad administration, corruption and nepotism, in view of the appointment of serveral persons in the Corporation at the instance of political leaders and ministers who were not properly qualified, for which the employee was departmentallly proceeded with, and a similar stand was taken that the right to freedom of speech guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) cannot be curtailed, repelling the said contentions, has held that making public statement against the head of the organisation without any basis would amount to lowering the prestige of the organisation in which he worked. Therefore, it is a fit case where disciplinary proceedings should be initiated. When the law is well settled that the government servants can be subjected to the rules which are intended to maintain discipline within their ranks which lead to an efficient discharge of their duties, the present writ petition challenging the impugned charge memo is wholly misconceived. Therefore, the same is liable to be dismissed, he pleaded. 11. Heard both sides. 12. The petitioner joined the Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited on 14.8.90 as an Industrial Worker Grade I and on promotion, he is presently working as Chief Technician in Mine IA. The crux of the allegation levelled against the petitioner is that he has posted certain derogatory remarks and comments in his facebook account which is open to public view containing unverified and unsubstantiated allegations criticising NLCIL's policies and certain decisions including certain contracts awarded for outsourcing overburden removal in mines to private contractors. Moreover, charge no.2 alleges that he has posted certain derogatory remarks and comments in his facebook account containing false allegations against the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh portraying him as a member of RSS who always offers controversial remarks. Charge No.3 alleges that he has also posted derogatory remarks and shared comments in facebook account carrying defamatory allegations abusing the Hon'ble Prime Minister of India by equating him with Adolf Hitler. Charge No.4 also alleges that by posting certain derogatory comments in his facebook account defaming the Governor of Tamil Nadu who remained indifferent without taking any action for a stable political situation in Tamilnadu. As the posting of derogatory remarks in his facebook account which is open to public view has caused serious injury to the respondent company's reputation, he has been issued with the charge memo on 6.7.2017 that his conduct is in violation of the Standing Order Nos.25, 33 and 46, which read as follows:- 33. Publication of written articles: