in Wright v. Wright , (1948) 77 CLR 191, 210] ‖; or as said by
 Lord Denning, ―the degree of probability depends on the
 subject-matter. In proportion as the offence is grave, so
 ought the proof to be clear [Blyth v. Blyth, (1966) 1 AER 524,
 536] ‖. But whether the issue is one of cruelty or of a loan on
 a pronote, the test to apply is whether on a preponderance of
 probabilities the relevant fact is proved. In civil cases this,
 normally, is the standard of proof to apply for finding whether
 the burden of proof is discharged.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

The Court recognised that within the standard of preponderance of probabilities,

the degree of probability is based on the subject matter involved. In State of U P v Krishna Gopal298 , this Court observed: PART N

The second reason was that in case a temple had been demolished for

constructing a mosque, the super structure of the temple ―would not have gone

inside the ground‖. This again is pure conjecture. The learned judge then

disregarded the architectural fragments on the ground that it is only in the case of

a natural calamity that such material ―goes down inside the ground‖ and

otherwise, a ruined building would be buried under the ground after centuries.

The judge observed that there is neither any requirement nor any practice that

even in the foundation of a temple, there must be such items which denote the

nature of the super structure. These observations and findings of Justice S U

Khan are hypothetical and without any basis. The third learned judge, Justice D V Sharma has relied on the findings contained

in the ASI report. 508. The conclusions which have been arrived at by Justice Sudhir Agarwal on

the ASI report, as extracted above are worthy of acceptance. There is adequate

basis in the material contained in the ASI report to lead to the following

conclusions: PART N (iv) The excavation of the walls of the underlying structure coupled with the

 presence of pillar bases supports the conclusion of the ASI of the presence

 of a structure underlying the disputed structure; (v) The underlying structure was not of Islamic origin; (vi) The foundation of the disputed structure rests on the walls of the

 underlying structure; and (vii) Artefacts, including architectural fragments which have been recovered

 during excavation have a distinct non-Islamic origin. Though individually,

 some of the artefacts could also have been utilised in a structure of

 Buddhist or Jain origins, there is no evidence of the underlying structure

 being of an Islamic religious nature. The conclusion which has been drawn

 by the ASI that the nature of the underlying structure and the recoveries

 which have been made would on stylistic grounds suggest the existence of

 temple structure dating back to the twelfth century A.D. would on a balance

 of probabilities be a conclusion which is supported by evidence. The

 conclusion cannot be rejected as unsupported by evidence or lying beyond

 the test of a preponderance of probabilities, which must govern a civil trial.

Caveats 509. Having said this, we must also read the ASI report with the following

caveats: The unanswered question of demolition 510. The ASI report has been criticised on the ground that it fails to answer the

question as to whether the disputed structure of a mosque was constructed on

the demolition of a pre-existing temple at the site.

The High Court dealt with this objection in the following observations of Justice

Sudhir Agarwal: 511. Consequently, when the ASI report will be placed in balance in terms of its

evidentiary value in the course of this judgment, it is crucial for the court to sift

between what the report finds and what it leaves unanswered. The ASI report

does find the existence of a pre-existing structure. The report deduces 17 rows of

pillar bases (a total of 85 of which 50 were exposed in sections, in parts or

whole). The report concludes on the basis of the architectural fragments found at

the site and the nature of the structure that it was of a Hindu religious origin. The

report rejects the possibility (urged by the Sunni Central Waqf Board) of the

underlying structure being of Islamic origin. But the ASI report has left

unanswered a critical part of the remit which was made to it, namely, a

determination of whether a Hindu temple had been demolished to pave way for

the construction of the mosque. ASI‘s inability to render a specific finding on this

facet is certainly a significant evidentiary circumstance which must be borne in 598 PART N

mind when the cumulative impact of the entire evidence is considered in the final

analysis. 512. There is another aspect which needs to be flagged at this stage and which

will be considered when the question of title is evaluated. That issue is whether a

determination of title can rest on the basis of the ASI findings as they stand.

Whether the construction of a mosque in 1528 A.D. (over 450 years ago) on the

foundations of an erstwhile religious structure (dating back to the twelfth century

A.D.) can result in a finding on the question of title is a distinct matter. At this

stage, it will suffice to note that a determination of title was not obviously within

the remit of ASI. This is a matter on which the court will need to draw a

considered and objective conclusion when it deals with the issue of title later in

this judgment. N.10 Nature and use of the disputed structure: oral evidence 513. The plaintiffs in Suit 5 produced nineteen witnesses. A broad

categorisation of these witnesses is indicated below: 514. Mahant Paramhans Ram Chandra Das (OPW-1): Mahant Paramhans

Ram Chandra Das was ninety-years old and the Mahant of All India Shri Panch

Ramanandi Digamber Ani Akhara and Digamber Ayodhya Akhara, Baithak. The

witness deposed that according to Valmiki‘s Ramayan, Lord Ram was born in

Ayodhya. According to him: 515. Dr Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

Sunni Central Waqf Board, has sought to draw the attention of this Court to

certain contradictions which were elucidated in the course of the cross-

examination which have been catalogued below: 516. Shri Devaki Nandan Agarwal (OPW–2): Shri Devaki Nandan Agarwal

was eighty years of age when his Examination-in-Chief was recorded between 16

and 18 June 2001. The witness was the third plaintiff in Suit 5 suing as the next

friend of the deities. The cross-examination of the witness could not be

completed upon the death of the witness but Dr Dhavan stated that nonetheless,

he is entitled to rely upon the evidence of the witness. Dr Dhavan has adverted to

the testimony of OPW2, particularly in regard to the association between the

Vishva Hindu Parishad and the Ram Janmabhumi Nyas. Moreover, in regard to

the shifting of the idols, Dr Dhavan, in his note of submissions highlighted the

following facets pertaining to the evidence of the witness: and (iv) The reference by the witness to the Janmabhumi temple on the northern

 side or the disputed site which was bifurcated upon the construction of a

 road by the British administration. Challenge to credentials of the witness 517. OPW2, who is the third plaintiff in Suit 5 has stated in the plaint that he is a

Vaishnavite. In the course of his Examination-in-Chief he reiterated that he is a

Vaishnavite and a Hindu and that he was suing as a next friend of the first and

second plaintiffs in Suit 5 with no personal or vested interest but an intent of

service to the deity. He stated that during 1932-1934 whenever he went to the

disputed place with his mother, he saw the worship of the idol of Lord Ram at

Ramchabutra. According to him, there was a picture of Lord Ram inside the

disputed structure and the priest took flowers and garlands from worshippers and

offered them from a distance. He referred to the presence of the stone pillars at 607 PART N

the gate and inside the disputed structure. However, according to him, as a result

of the locks which were affixed on the gate to the inner premises of the disputed

structure, the police did not allow worshippers to enter and worship was from

outside the gate: 518. Dr Dhavan‘s attempt to discredit the witness as a person who was not a

worshipper is not borne out from the cross-examination of OPW2. During the

course of his cross-examination, he stated that between 1940 and 1952, he

conducted the business of a brick kiln and worked as a contractor while

undertaking his studies. The witness was candid enough to state that during the

time he was carrying on business, he had no time to take interest in religion and

did not worship an idol. However, he spoke about his worship of Hindu religious

deities on the occasion of religious festivals. This part of the cross-examination

must be read in the context of a particular phase of the life of the witness when

he carried on business, before he entered the legal profession. It would be 608 PART N

incorrect to infer from the answers elucidated during the course of cross-

examination that the witness was not a believer or worshipper of Lord Ram. The

pleadings in the Suit and his evidence establish the personal credentials of the

witness as a person genuinely interested in the deity of Lord Ram. 519. Harihar Prasad Tewari (OPW-4): Harihar Prasad Tewari was eighty-five

years of age on the date of his Examination-in-Chief on 1 August 2002. He was

born in 1917, came to Ayodhya in 1938, where he lived for four years to study

Ayurveda. The witness stated that he used to visit Ram Janmabhumi temple. The

witness has been principally relied upon by the plaintiffs in Suit 5 in support of the

belief that the disputed site was the birth-place of Lord Ram. In the course of his

Examination-in-Chief he stated: 520. Shri Ram Nath Mishra Alias Banarsi Panda (OPW-5): On 6 August

2002, when the Examination-in-Chief of the witness was recorded, he was ninety-

one years old. He stated that he was married to the daughter of Pandit

Ramkrishna Upadhya who was a reputed ―Teerth-Purohit‖. He deposed to having

worshipped at Ram Janmabhumi and of performing the parikrama since his

marriage. Since 1932, he together with his spouse came to Ayodhya and started

managing and looking after the work performed by his father-in-law including of

about a hundred ghats which were owned by him. The witness stated that on

Chaitra Ram Navami nearly 10 to 15 lakh devotees of Lord Ram visited Ayodhya

and after a bath in the Saryu river proceeded for darshan to Ram Janmabhumi,

Kanak Bhawan and Hanuman Garhi. He stated that thousands of devotees

visited from villages for seeking darshan at the Janmabhumi. The witness stated

that the importance of Ayodhya has been described in the Brahmpuran, Skand

Puran and Barahpuran. Some of the salient aspects of the examination of OPW-5 are: PART N (ii) On both corners of the gate of Hanumat Dwar, there were black stone

 pillars with pictures of flowers, leaves and deities. Similarly, on the upper

 side of Singh Dwar there was a picture of a ‗garud‘ flanked by lions on

 either side; (iii) On entering through the main gate called Hanumat Dwar, there was a

 platform towards the south called the Ramchabutra on which were placed

 the idols of and associated with Lord Ram. On the south-eastern corner of

 Ramchabutra, there were idols under a peepal tree including those of Lord

 Ganesh, Lord Shanker and other deities. Inside the main gate towards the

 northern side, there was a thatched enclosure known as the Bhandar or

 store in which provisions were stored; (iv) Inside the grill-brick wall towards the west of Ramchabutra there was, what

 he described as the ‗Garbh Grih‘ temple covered by three domes and it

 was a matter of belief that the site below the central dome was the birth-

 place of Lord Ram. The witness and other Hindu devotees would seek the

 darshan of Ram Janmabhumi at the site, which was considered to be

 sacrosanct; (v) Within the same complex was situated the Sita Rasoi which had a Chauka- Belan, hearth and footprints; (vi) Inside the domed structure, there were pillars of black touchstone which

 had images of flowers, leaves and deities. Between 1928-1949, he had

 seen the picture of Lord Ram hanging inside the ‗Garbh Grih‘ and he

 claimed to have seen the idol of Lord Ram until 1949; 612 PART N (vii) In the grill-brick wall, there were two doors which remained locked and

 which were opened by the pujaris of Nirmohi Akhara. Darshan of the

 ‗Garbh Grih‘ was arranged for the pilgrims from the railing where a

 donation box was kept; (viii) Speaking of the worship at the ‗Garbh Grih‘, the following answers were

 elicited during the course of the cross-examination of the witness: 521. Dr Rajeev Dhavan has made an earnest effort to discredit the evidence of

the witness on the basis of his inability to identify whether the photographs which

were shown to him pertained to the disputed site. The witness stated that in

1990, a monkey caused the collapse of the disputed building. This answer is

evidently a figment of his imagination and he did not furnish a true account of the

demolition. The inability of the witness to respond to the photographs shown by

the cross-examiner is certainly one aspect which has to be borne in mind but that

cannot be a ground to discredit the witness. At the date of his cross-examination,

the witness was over 90 years of age and the contradictions must be viewed

keeping in mind the entirety of the evidence. The explanation of the witness in

regard to the collapse of the structure is indeed far-fetched. However, an overall

reading of the evidence would indicate that the answers which were elicited

during the cross-examination of the witness by Mr Jilani leaves the substratum of

the Examination-in-Chief of the witness on the nature of the worship by Hindu

devotees at the site unshaken. The witness was conversant with the nature and

manner of worship and there can be no manner of doubt either about his 614 PART N

presence at the disputed site as a worshipper or awareness of the modalities

followed by the devotees including himself in the course of seeking worship at the

disputed site. 522. Housila Prasad Tripathi (OPW-6): The witness was eighty years of age

on 13 August 2002 on the date of his Examination-in-Chief. His village was 30 to

35 kilometres from Ayodhya which he visited in December 1935 for the first time

when he was between the age of twelve-thirteen. The witness stated that his

uncle was receiving education between 1932 and 1945 at Sanskrit Vidyalaya at

Ayodhya. During this period, the witness came to Ayodhya three to four times a

year. Thereafter also, the witness stated that he had visited Ayodhya for the

purpose of darshan at Ram Janmabhumi. During the course of his Examination-

in-Chief, the witness spoke about darshan at Ram Janmabhumi: Based on what he perceived to be contradictions in the identification by the

witness of certain photographs, Dr Rajeev Dhavan, in his written submissions

criticised the testimony of the witness. He has also adverted to the statement of

the witness that Ram Lalla had made his appearance under the middle dome in

1949. The witness also offered some explanation of the damage that was done to

the building in 1934. These contradictions cannot lead to the discrediting of the

witness or his entire testimony on the nature of worship by Hindu devotees at the

site. There is no reason to doubt the statement of the witness that he was a

regular visitor and a worshipper at the site. His testimony in the Examination-in-

Chief on the nature and site of worship has not been shaken in the course of the 617 PART N

cross-examination. The discrepancies which have been noticed by Dr Rajeev

Dhavan are certainly not of a nature which would cast doubt on the substratum of

the deposition on the above aspects. 523. Ram Surat Tewari (OPW-7): The witness was seventy-three years old on

the date of his Examination-in-Chief which is 19 September 2002. His village was

situated 8 kilometres from Ayodhya. The witness stated that he visited Ayodhya

for the first time in 1942 during the summer when he resided with his brother who

was in service there. Thereafter, he visited Ayodhya four to five times each year.

The witness has specifically adverted to the pillars of black stone on either side of

Hanumat Dwar and to the carvings of stone: 524. Kaushal Kishore Mishra (OPW-12): The witness was seventy-five years

of age on 19 September 2002, the date of the Examination-in-Chief. A resident of

Ayodhya, the witness is an Acharya and belongs to a family of priests. Since the

age of fourteen or fifteen, the witness stated that he was performing worship at

Ram Janmabhumi. During the course of the Examination-in-Chief, the witness

stated that lakhs of people gathered there for worship on the occasion of festivals

when they would visit Ramchabutra, Sita Rasoi and the sanctum sanctorum

where Lord Ram was born below the middle dome of the three domed structure.

The devotees would also perform a parikrama. The witness also stated that no

Muslim of Ayodhya came near the premises of Ram Janmabhumi for the purpose

of prayer and there was no offering of namaz. According to the witness, there were idols of Ram Lalla and Shaligram on the

Chabutra where offerings were made. Bairagis and sadhus also lived there, and

they belonged to Nirmohi Akhara. Prasad for the deities was prepared in the

store of Nirmohi Akhara and a priest was also appointed to look after the Ram

Mandir and Sita Rasoi. The witness spoke about the two doors at the outer

courtyard and the grill-brick wall separating the disputed building and the outer

courtyard. Both the doors of the wall with bars would be opened and the witness

stated that he would go through the gate to worship the idol of Lord Ram.

Though, the witness stated during the course of his Examination-in-Chief that he 619 PART N

accompanied his father and grand-father to Ram Janmabhumi and saw the

pilgrims praying below the middle dome of the disputed structure in the sanctum

sanctorum, in the course of his cross-examination, he stated that in 1934, he did

not go inside the disputed building but only upto Ramchabutra. However, since

1934, he claimed to have been going inside the three domed building. He

claimed that there were two iron doors to enter the building; one of which on the

North was always kept open. According to him, in 1949 there was no idol inside

the building with domes but only a calendar was put up on the platform

constructed below the middle dome. According to the witness, he performed

worship inside the building when there was no rush but when there was a rush of

people, worship would be performed outside near the Ramchabutra. However, he

took devotees inside the disputed building for worship after 1949 and not before

it. Between 1949 and 1986, he took oral permission from the receiver to go inside

the building. During 1934-1949, some people made their offerings outside at

Ramchabutra; others gave it to a priest near the iron wall gate due to the rush of

the people while some people would go inside to make their offerings. The priest

sitting in the platform below the middle dome accepted the offerings. In response

to the question as to how aarti and bhog was offered between 1934 and 1949

when there was no idol, the witness stated: 525. Narad Saran (OPW-13): The witness was seventy-six years old on the

date of his Examination-in-Chief which was on 27 January 2003. He came to

Ayodhya in 1946 and after the death of his Guru, he succeeded him as the

Mahant to Saraju Kund in 1979. The witness has accepted that the idols were

shifted from Ramchabutra to the place below the central dome on the night

between 22/23 December 1949. He was confronted with photographs of the

inscription containing the word ―Allah‖. According to the witness, the inscriptions

were leaves and flowers only. He accepted that where Allah is written, the wall

cannot be a wall of the temple. The witness could not confirm as to whether

Muslims had offered namaz in the disputed building on the dates that he did not

visit it. The witness spoke about the belief of the sanctum sanctorum being below

the middle dome. The witness deposed that there were Kasauti pillars on either 621 PART N

side of the gate at Hanumat Dwar with the idols of Jai and Vijay engraved

thereon. The Sunni witnesses 526. The plaintiffs in Suit 5 have relied upon the account of Sunni witnesses as

strengthening their case. The following Sunni witnesses were relied upon: 527. Haji Mehboob Ahmed (PW-2): was fifty-eight years old when his

statement was recorded in September 1996. He was a resident of Tedhi Bazar,

Ayodhya and his house was situated about three furlongs away from the disputed

site. He stated that he had offered namaz in the disputed site hundreds of times

and besides the Friday namaz he used to offer namaz five times till 22 December

1949. The witness stated that he never saw any worship or puja being performed

by the Hindus inside the disputed site. The witness was cross-examined initially

on 17 September 1996. During the course of his cross-examination, the witness

referred to the grilled wall that joined the boundary wall of the three domed

structure and stated that the structure was considered to be a mosque by the

Muslims and a mandir by the Hindus. The witness stated that just as Ayodhya

was a place of pilgrimage for the Hindus, similarly, it was for the Muslims and

they referred to it as ‗Khurd Mecca‘. He stated that the parikrama used to take 624 PART N

place in the winters and those performing parikrama also used to visit the temple

for darshan. The witness was unable to determine whether the pillars were made

of stone or Kasauti stone. The witness denied the existence of idols and other

symbols of the temple shown in photograph nos 29 and 30 and stated they were

not there at the time when he went to offer namaz at the disputed site. 528. Mohd Yaseen (PW-4): He was sixty-six years old when his statement was

recorded in November 1996. He was a resident of Mohalla Raiganj, Ayodhya and

was a shoemaker. The witness stated that the disputed structure was used for

offering namaz and he had been continuously reading Friday prayers at the

disputed site. He stated that there existed black stone pillars in the disputed

structure, but no images of Gods and Goddesses were engraved on them.

According to the witness, images of flowers and leaves in the shape of flowerpots

were carved on them. The witness was first cross-examined on 29 November

1996. During the course of his cross-examination, the witness stated that the

Hindus believed that the disputed structure was the birth-place of Lord Ram and

they considered it as a sacred place of worship. The witness further stated that it

was wrong to assume that demolishing a temple or an idol was not an offence

according to the Quran. The witness deposed that no Muslim was allowed to

demolish a temple built at a particular place and construct a mosque over it and if

any person could prove a mosque was built upon the destruction of temple, it

would not be a valid mosque. 529. Hasmat-ulla-Ansari (PW-7): He was sixty-five years old when his

statement was recorded in December 1996. He was a resident of Mohalla 625 PART N

Kaziana, Ayodhya and was a typist. The witness stated that the disputed

structure was a mosque and that he had first offered namaz there in 1943 and

thereafter till 1949. He also claimed that the disputed structure was never a

temple and no Hindu offered worship there till 22 December 1949. The witness

was first cross-examined on 5 December 1996. During the course of his cross-

examination, he stated thus: 530. Mohd Qasim Ansari (PW-23): He was seventy-four years old when he

filed an affidavit in January 2002. He was a resident of Mohalla Kutia, Ayodhya

and was a motor mechanic by profession. The witness stated that his residence

was situated about three furlongs away from the disputed site. The witness stated

that he had recited Fazir Zohar, Asir, Magrib, Isha, Tarvi and even Zumma

namaz multiple times at the disputed site. According to the witness, he recited the

last namaz on 22 December 1949 and till the time he recited namaz, there was

no idol kept inside the three domed structure and no Hindus ever prayed at the

disputed site. The witness was first cross-examined on 16 January 2002. During

the course of cross-examination, the witness stated that the Hindus considered

Lord Ram as their God and believed that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya. The

witness stated that Babri Masjid was referred to as the Janmabhumi by the 626 PART N

Hindus and that he was aware of Panchkoshi Marg and Panchkoshi Parikrama.

He stated that the disputed site was at a distance of 300 metres from Panchkosi

Marg and all the famous temples of Ayodhya including the disputed site were

situated within the Panchkosi Marg. According to the witness, during the month of

Kartik, a grand festival was organised in Ayodhya, shops were set up and lakhs

of pilgrims came to have darshan at the Ram Janmabhumi, Kanak Bhawan and

Hanuman Garhi. The witness also stated that the Chaudahkosi Parikrama was

also performed once a year during the month of Kartik and lakhs of pilgrims used

to take part in it. The witness also referred to the Ram Navami festival held in the

month of Chaitra and the Sawan festival which attracted lakhs of people to the

city of Ayodhya. The pilgrims used to take a dip in the river Saryu and have

darshan at Kanak Bhavan, Janmasthan mandir and even the Janmabhumi.

According to the witness, during the days of the festival, Hindus and Muslims co-

existed in love and peace. 531. Analysing the depositions of the above witnesses, the following facets can

be gleaned: PART N (iv) The faith and belief of the Hindus that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya is

 undisputed. Muslim witnesses also stated that Hindus have faith and belief

 in the existence of the Janmasthan; (v) Both Hindu and Sunni witness testimonies indicate that the disputed site

 was being used for offering worship by devotees of both faiths; (vi) Both Hindu and Sunni witnesses have described the physical layout of the

 disputed structure in the following manner: PART N (e) Outside the disputed premises, in the south-eastern corner, Sita

 Koop was located at a distance of 200-250 paces; (f) The Northern entrance gate to the disputed site was Singh Dwar

 above which a pictorial representation of garuda was engraved in

 the centre with two lions on either side. On entering through Singh

 Dwar, Sita Rasoi was accessed, which included a Chauka-Belan-

 Choolha, Charan Chinha and other signs of religious significance;

 and (g) To the West of Ramchabutra, there was a wall with iron bars. Inside

 the railing was the three domed structure which Hindus believed to

 be the birth-place of Lord Ram. The Hindus believed this as the

 ‗Garbh Grih‘ which was considered a holy and revered place. There

 existed black Kasauti stone pillars in the three domed structure. The

 witnesses stated that the pillars had engravings of flowers, leaves,

 Gods and Goddesses on them; (vii) A pattern of worship and prayer emerges from the testimonies of the

 witnesses. Upon entering Hanumat Dwar, the Hindus used to offer prayers

 and worship the idols of Lord Ram placed upon the Chabutra in the outer

 courtyard followed by the idols placed below the fig and neem tree.

 Prayers were offered at the Sita Rasoi and then pilgrims used to pay

 obeisance to the ‗Garbh Grih‘ located inside the three domed structure,

 while making their offerings standing at the iron railing that divided the

 inner and outer courtyard. The Hindus performed a parikrama or

 performed circumambulation of the Ram Janmabhumi; 629 PART N (viii) Both Hindu and Muslim witnesses stated that on religious occasions and

 festivals such as Ram Navami, Sawan Jhoola, Kartik Poornima, Parikrama

 Mela and Ram Vivah, many Hindu pilgrims from across the country visited

 the disputed premises for darshan. Worshippers used to take a dip in the

 Saryu river and have darshan at Ram Janmabhumi, Kanak Bhawan and

 Hanumangarhi. Pilgrims would perform a customary circumambulation

 around the disputed premises; and (ix) Both Hindu and Muslim witnesses have referred to Panchkoshi and

 Chaudahkosi Parikramas that were performed once a year during the

 month of Kartik, which attracted lakhs of pilgrims to the city of Ayodhya.

The areas of dispute 532. From the testimony of the Hindu and Sunni Muslims witnesses, there

appear three significant areas of dispute: 23 December 1949. The possibility of any idol under the central dome prior 630 PART N

 to 22-23 December 1949 stands excluded on a preponderance of

 probabilities; (ii) Second, there are variations in regard to the statements of the Hindu

 witnesses on whether and, if so the nature of the prayers, that were offered

 inside the inner sanctum prior to 22-23 December 1949. While some

 witnesses have stated that they had entered the disputed structure for

 offering prayers below the central dome, other witnesses have stated that

 prayers were being offered only at the railing separating the inner and the

 outer courtyards. The case that prayers were offered at the railing is

 inconsistent with the claim that prayers were being offered inside the three

 domed structure by the Hindus between 1934 and 1949. According to the

 Muslim witnesses, no prayers were being offered inside the three domed

 structure by the Hindus; and (iii) Third, there is a variation between the statements of the Hindu and Muslim

 witnesses on whether namaz was offered inside the three domed structure

 of the mosque between 1934 and 1949. The Muslim witnesses

 consistently deposed that namaz was being offered and that the last Friday

 prayers were offered on 22 December 1949. On the other hand, according

 to the Hindu witnesses, no Muslim offered prayers at the three domed

 structure and if anyone ventured near the premises, they were made to

 leave out of the fear of the sadhus and Bairagis in the neighbourhood. 631 PART N

N.11 Photographs of the disputed structure

The report of the Commissioner dated 3 August 1950 533. The judgment of Justice Sudhir Agarwal records that there are three sets

of albums containing photographs taken by the State Archaeological Department

pursuant to an order dated 10 January 1990. Dr Rakesh Tewari (OPW-14) who

was the Director of the State Archaeological Department verified the

photographs. Among them, one album of coloured photographs containing 204

photographs was marked as paper No. 200 C1/1-204. The second album of black

and white photographs contains 111 photographs and was marked as paper No.

201 C(1)/1-111. The albums contained photographs of the Kasauti stone pillars

and other features of the disputed structure. Dr Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Sunni

Central Waqf Board, has placed reliance on the report dated 3 August 1950

submitted by Mr Basheer Ahmad Khan, pleader commissioner in Suit 1. The

report contains thirteen photographs. Paragraphs 1 and 8 to 10 of the report

contain an explanation about photographs 1, 8, 9 and 10. Photograph 1 depicts

the word ‗Allah‘ inscribed in Arabic above the arch of the main gate outside the

disputed structure. The Commissioner‘s report states: The Commissioner‘s report states: Justice Sudhir Agarwal has recorded a reference to them as well as to the album

of black and white photographs in the following extract: 634 Vijay is not visible at the place where colour has been used in
 the pillars appearing in the rest of the photographs out of the
 aforesaid photographs. (page 130-131), I am not able to
 recognize any god-goddess, Yaksha-Yakshini or Jay-Vijay in
 the black-white photographs of these pillars. There is a hazy
 figure above the ‗Ghat alash‘ in photograph No. 55, which
 can be of some god-goddess or Yaksha-Yakshini.‖

Proceeding ahead, Dr Verma stated: Issue No. 19(f) in Suit 4 was: We have adverted to the submission of Dr Dhavan for the completeness of the

record and insofar as it has a bearing on the reason which may have led to the

installation of the photographs of two public officials of the State government in

the southern dome of the disputed structure. N.12 Vishnu Hari Inscriptions 539. On 7 February 2002, counsel for the plaintiffs in Suit 5 filed a report dated

3 February 2002 before the High Court of Dr K V Ramesh, pertaining to the

―Ayodhya Vishnu Hari temple inscription‖. The documents were taken on record

―subject to objection and proof‖ as required by the provisions of the Evidence Act 1872. During the course of the trial, the plaintiffs of Suit 5 claimed that the above 639 PART N

inscription was recovered on 6/7 December 1992 from the debris of the disputed

structure which was demolished. The inscription is in stone with a dimension of

115cm X 55cm. Under the orders of the Court, an e-stampage (paper no. 203 C-

1/1) was prepared and was deciphered by Dr K V Ramesh (OPW-10) who is an

epigraphist. The translation of the text was marked as Exhibit 2 in Suit 5. The

case of the plaintiffs is that there was a Vishnu Hari temple at the site in dispute

and it was on the demolition of the temple that a mosque was constructed in its

place. In this segment, the inscription forms the fulcrum of the submission. 540. Material portions of the translation have been adverted to during the

course of the proceedings and are extracted below: 541. While discussing the evidence of the witness, Justice Sudhir Agarwal has

noted that the expertise of OPW-10 as an epigraphist could not be disputed by

any of the parties. OPW-10 appeared as a witness and proved the translation of

the contents of the stone inscription by him. According to the witness, the

inscription would belong to the twelfth century A.D. and from it, the existence of a

Vishnu Hari temple constructed in Ayodhya in twelfth century A.D. has been

noted. OPW-10 stated that the expression indicates that Ayodhya was the

headquarters of Saket Mandala. Moreover, while the temple was constructed by

Meghasuta, the inscription was written by his successors. Justice Sudhir Agarwal

in the course of his decision has observed that the genuineness and authenticity

of the inscription could not be doubted though it was argued on behalf of the

Muslim parties that the manner in which it was claimed to have been retrieved

was not trustworthy so as to enter a finding that it had been affixed in the building

at the disputed site prior to its demolition. Hence, it was urged by them that the

stone inscription by itself cannot be evidence to hold that a Vishnu Hari temple

existed or was constructed at the disputed site. 542. Dr K V Ramesh (OPW-10) stated in the affidavit in lieu of his Examination-

in-Chief that he has an M.A. in Sanskrit Language and Literature from Madras

University and completed a Ph.D. in History in 1965 from Karnataka University. In

1965, he joined the ASI in the office of the Government Epigraphist and was

selected by UPSC as Deputy Superintending Epigraphist for Sanskrit inscriptions

in 1966. He was promoted and eventually rose to become the Joint Director of

the ASI in 1992 before his retirement on 30 June 1993. Dr Ramesh stated that he 643 PART N

was approached by D N Agarwal and his counsel for deciphering the twenty-line

stone inscription on the basis of an e-stampage made available to him, which

was paper no. 203C-1/1 on the record of Suit 5. He accordingly made a

translation of the e-stampage and handed over the report to D N Agarwal. During

the course of his cross-examination, Dr Ramesh stated that he had seen an

additional legible photograph of the inscription in December 1992 when it was

brought to him by Dr S P Gupta at Delhi. He also stated that he had partly

deciphered the inscription on his own in his office at the ASI at Delhi. He stated

that he had once assembled with several other persons at the office of the Indian

Archaeological Society which was headed by Dr S P Gupta. The witness stated

that he was conversant with the inscriptions of Gahadawala Nagri script and that

he had seen nearly ten to twenty inscriptions of the dynasty published in

Ephigraphia Indica. The witness had written over fifty articles on Sanskrit

inscriptions found in northern and southern India. Of them, ten inscriptions

belonged to northern India all of which relate to the period prior or up to the end

of the twelfth century A.D. During his cross-examination, the witness explained

the basis on which it had been deduced that the inscription dated to the twelfth

century: 543. The expertise of Dr K V Ramesh, based on his qualifications and

experience in the ASI, is a matter of record. Dr Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior

Counsel appearing on behalf of the Sunni Waqf Board, however sought to

emphasise the following aspects in regard to the testimony of Dr Ramesh: 544. In assessing this submission, we must at the outset note that no cogent

basis has been furnished to doubt the qualifications and experience of Dr K V

Ramesh. Dr Ramesh was employed with the ASI for many years and eventually

rose to occupy the position of Joint Director General. He has furnished a

translation of the original inscription and has indicated the basis on which he

deduced that it relates to the twelfth century. He notes that the epigraphists

mention Govindachandra who belonged to the Gahadavala dynasty and ruled

between 1114 and 1155 A.D. Moreover, the chaste Sanskrit, orthographical

features and palaeography confirmed (according to Dr Ramesh) that the

inscription belongs to the twelfth century A.D. Dr Ramesh also spoke about

verses 21 to 24 mentioning the construction of a lofty stone temple by Meghasuta

dedicated to Lord Vishnu Hari. He was succeeded by Ayusyacandra who, while

ruling Ayodhya endowed Saketa Mandala with the construction of reservoirs.

Verse 27 which has been damaged in part has been interpreted by Dr Ramesh in

the course of his Examination-in-Chief as follows : 545. As regards the recovery of the stone inscription, the plaintiffs in Suit 5

relied on the evidence of Ashok Chandra Chatterjee (OPW-8). The witness who

is a resident of Faizabad stated that he was a partner in a firm by the name of

Majestic Automobiles as well as the owner of Majestic Talkies. He claimed to be

a reporter with a weekly journal titled ―Panchjanya‖ of Faizabad region for over

fifteen years. On the recovery of the stone inscription, OPW-8 stated that on 6

December 1992 when the disputed structure was demolished, he was present at

the site for the collection of news, on the western side of the three domed

structure. When the work of levelling was being undertaken by the Government of

Uttar Pradesh on the eastern side of the Ram Janmabhumi premises, he states

that some stones were found which appeared to be the ruins of the temple. On

getting this information, he proceeded to the site and all the idols including the

ruins of the temple recovered during the process of levelling were placed in the

custody of the Ram Katha Museum, Raj Sadan Ayodhya of the Archaeology

Department of Uttar Pradesh. 546. OPW-8 stated that on 6 December 1992 while he was standing behind the

disputed structure, he saw a plaster of a part of the western wall being broken

and stones and bricks of uneven shape and size fitted in the wall. During the

course of the demolition of the structure a slab (three and half feet long, two feet

wide and six inches thick) fell down. He states that many of the slabs which had

fallen appeared to be the ruins of some temple and that a saint at the site 647 PART N

informed him that the slab appeared to be an inscription of an old temple. The

inscription was picked up by the Kar Sewaks who brought it near the building

located at Ram Katha Kunj. The witness stated that subsequently the police took

custody of the slabs. The witness stated that on 6 December 1992, the date of

destruction of the mosque, he got acquainted with Dr Sudha Mallayya. On 13

December 1992, Dr Sudha Mallaya contacted him for his help in inspecting the

slabs which had been recovered during the course of the demolition. Dr S P

Gupta and Dr Sudha Mallayya accordingly came to the building located at Ram

Katha Kunj. The witness stated that on 15 December 1992, a photograph of the

inscription was published in the Lucknow edition of the daily by the name of ‗AaJ‘.

During the course of his cross-examination, the witness stated that he did not

know the place where the slab was exactly fitted in the wall before it fell. He

claimed that the photograph of the rock inscription / slab was handed over to him

at night by someone whom he could not identify. He also stated that the

photograph of the slab was published in Panchjanya of 13/20 December 1992. 547. The testimony of OPW-8 has been challenged by Dr Dhavan on the

following grounds: PART N (iii) In spite of this, he claims to have seen the slab containing the inscription

 falling; (iv) He then states that on the day following the demolition, he went together

 with Dr Sudha Mallaya and Dr S P Gupta to obtain pictures of the

 inscription; (v) Dr S P Gupta is a member of the RSS prior to 1975 and Dr Ramesh had

 also mentioned having met Dr S P Gupta; (vi) The witness was not able to identify the pictures of the disputed site,

 stating that it was not clear from the photographs whether this was the

 western boundary since he had visited the place only once in his lifetime;

 and (vii) Initially, the witness stated that the rock inscription shown had fallen from

 the western wall of the southern dome but after seeing the picture, he

 stated that rock inscription which was available after the demolition of the

 structure did not appear to be fixed on the wall. The inconsistencies in the testimony of the witness, which have been copiously

analysed by Dr Dhavan, cast serious doubt on the credibility of the witness, his

presence at the site and of his having witnessed the recovery of the slabs from

the disputed structure during the course of demolition on 6 December 1992. The

recovery of the stone inscription from the disputed site following the demolition

which took place on 6 December 1992 has not been established. The chain of

custody is not established. The evidence of OPW-8 on the recovery of the stone

inscription does not inspire confidence. On the one hand, reading his testimony, it 649 PART N

is evident that nothing was clearly visible to the witness because of the pall of

dust which was raised. How he saw a particular rock inscription or the slab on

which it was borne falling defies rational explanation. In fact, during the course of

his cross-examination, the witness stated that: 548. Since the recovery of the rock inscription from the disputed structure is not

borne out from the evidence, a crucial link in the case which has been sought to

be made out on the basis of the inscription, by the plaintiffs in Suit 5 is found to

be missing. The rock inscription would indicate the existence of a Vishnu Hari

temple at Ayodhya, having been constructed in twelfth century A.D. But once the

recovery of the inscription from the site in question is disbelieved, the inscription

cannot be the basis to conclude that the Vishnu Hari temple which is referred to

in the inscription was a temple which existed at the very site of the demolished

structure. N.13 The polestar of faith and belief 549. Setting course through history, the cornerstone of the edifice for the

Hindus is their faith and belief in the birth-place of Lord Ram as the incarnation of

Vishnu. Their faith is founded principally on the significance attached to Ayodhya

in the following: 650 In weaving through the wealth of documents produced before this Court, it is

necessary to answer both the extent of judicial review of faith and belief and the

evidentiary value of the reliance on travelogues, gazetteers and books. 550. The first extract from Skand Puran upon which reliance has been placed is

thus: 551. Mr Zafaryab Jilani, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

Sunni Central Waqf Board has a nuanced response to the submissions which are

founded in the religious scriptures relied upon by Mr P N Misra. Learned Senior

Counsel argued that: PART N

The submission which has been urged is that there is no dispute about the faith

and belief of the Hindus that Lord Ram was born in Ayodhya but the Janmasthan

temple which has been worshipped, lies to the north of the disputed site.

Moreover, it has been stated that after 1855, the Chabutra in the outer courtyard

was worshipped as the place of birth. Hence, according to Mr Jilani, there is no

evidence of the area below the central dome being worshipped as the place of

birth of Lord Ram before the dispute over the site which arose in 1949. 552. Having set out the basis of the claim of the Hindus in the religious texts

outlined above, it becomes necessary to advert to the testimony of Jagadguru

Ramanandacharya, a witness whom Mr Jilani himself relied upon extensively.

During his oral arguments, Mr Jilani described the witness as ―a most scholarly

person who knows religion‖. He has been bestowed with the title of

Ramanandacharya. The witness suffered from a visual disability since infancy.

Surmounting these challenges, he obtained the degree of Acharya by pursuing

Prathma, Vidyavaridhi and Vachaspati at the Sampooranand Sanskrit

Vishwavidyalaya at Varanasi. The witness has a Ph.D. and a D.Lit and on the

date of his evidence in lieu of the Examination-in-Chief had authored seventy six

publications. Except for Urdu, the witness stated that he had knowledge of almost

all Indian languages. In his Examination-in-Chief, the witness stated: 553. Swami Avimuketshwaranand Saraswati (DW 20/2) stated that according to

his ―study and knowledge‖ the disputed site at Ayodhya is the birth-place of Shri

Ram and has been worshipped regularly by devotees. He founded his belief on 654 PART N

the scriptures, more particularly the Valmiki Ramayan to which he makes a

reference: 554. Satya Narain Tripathi (DW3/3) stated that in Ramacharitmanas, there is no

mention of ―any special place regarding the birth of Ramachandraji, but only a

mention about Ayodhya‖. Mahant Ramji Das (DW3/7) was asked during cross-

examination whether there is a reference in Sri Ramacharitmanas to the birth-

place of Lord Ram. The question posed to and the answer of the witness are

extracted below: 555. The Hindu witnesses to whom a reference has been made earlier have

furnished statements of their faith and belief in the place under the central dome

being the birth-place of Lord Ram. The witnesses explained the basis of their 657 PART N

belief by interpreting the texts of the scriptures: the Ayodhya Mahatmya, Valmiki

Ramayan and Ramacharitmanas. The cross-examination of the witnesses has

not established any basis for the court to be led to the conclusion that the faith

and belief of the Hindus, as portrayed through these witnesses is not genuine or

that it is a mere pretence. Matters of faith and belief lie in the personal realm of

the believer. That which sustains solace to the soul is inscrutable. Whether a

belief is justified lies beyond ken of judicial inquiry. This is not a case where the

witness statements indicate that the belief or faith is a veneer or that it is being

put-forth merely as a strategy in a litigation. Once the witnesses have deposed to

the basis of the belief and there is nothing to doubt its genuineness, it is not open

to the court to question the basis of the belief. Scriptural interpretations are

susceptible to a multitude of inferences. The court would do well not to step into

the pulpit by adjudging which, if any, of competing interpretations should be

accepted. Faith is a matter for the individual believer. Once the court has intrinsic

material to accept that the faith or the belief is genuine and not a pretence, it

must defer to the belief of the worshipper. This, we must do well to recognise,

applies across the spectrum of religions and their texts, Hinduism and Islam

being among them. The value of a secular constitution lies in a tradition of equal

deference. 556. The fact that a belief and faith is held is however a matter which is distinct

from the actual place where worship was offered. In deciding the latter, there has

to be a careful evaluation of the evidentiary record. The evidentiary material in

the present case consists among other things of 658 PART N (i) Travelogues; (ii) Gazetteers; (iii) The documentary record pertaining to the genesis of and the course which

 the disputes over the site in question followed; and (iv) Documentary material pertaining to the use of the three domed structure. 557. In dealing with this aspect of the case, we must confront a two-fold

difficulty which the High Court perceived. The first facet of that difficulty pertains

to scrutinising documentary evidence dealing with over five hundred years of

history. The High Court gave expression to its difficulty in unravelling history: 558. There are severe limitations in applying the test of a balance or

preponderance of probabilities in situations like the present where faith is

founded in aural traditions as much as in written text, where belief is nurtured by

religion as much as by mythology and cultural traditions borne in epics, music

and celebrations of festival provide balm to the soul of the believer. Bearing the 660 PART N

difficulties which the High Court has expressed in mind, it is now necessary to

analyse in further detail various threads of the documentary material. 559. We have, on the one hand, Abul Fazal‘s ‗Ain-e-Akbari‘. Colonel H S

Jerrett‘s English translation was first published in 1893-96. The second edition

corrected and further annotated by Sir Jadunath Sarkar refers to the Ain-e-Akbari

as: 560. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the plaintiffs in Suit 5 placed

reliance on the accounts of numerous travellers and gazetteers to highlight the

religious importance attached to Ayodhya and the disputed site for the Hindus: 662 561. Exhibit 133 – Suit 5: Joseph Tieffenthaler wrote his travel account in

Latin in his book titled ―Description Historiqueet Geographique Del‘inde‖.

Tieffenthaler was a Jesuit Missionary, reportedly proficient in Arabic, Persian

and Sanskrit and visited India in 1740. His travels were between 1743-1785300.

His visit to Ayodhya is described in the text, which was made available during the

course of the trial in French. An English translation was furnished by the

Government of India in pursuance of an order of the High Court. Tieffenthaler‘s

account reads thus: On the left is seen a square box raised 5 inches above
the ground, with borders made of lime, with a length of
more than 5 ells(5) and a maximum width of about 4 ells.
The Hindus call it Bedi i.e. ‗the cradle. The reason for this
is that once upon a time, here was a house where
Beschan was born in the form of Ram. It is said that his
three brothers too were born here. Subsequently,
Aurengzebe or Babor, according to others, got this place
razed in order to deny the noble people, the opportunity
of practicing their supersitions. However, there still
exists some superstitious cult in some place or other.
For example, in the place where the native house of Ram
existed, they go around 3 times and prostrate on the
floor. The two spots are surrounded by a low wall
constructed with battlement. One enters the front hall
through a low semi-circular door. 665 PART N

 Not far from there is a place where one digs out grains of
 black rice, burned into small stones, which are said to
 have been hidden under the earth since the time of Ram.
 On the 24th of the Tschet month, a big gathering of
 people is done here to celebrate the birthday of Ram,
 famous in the entire India. This vast city is a mile away from
 Bangla at the east towards E. N. E such that its latitude also
 will be greater by about one minute than that of Bangla.

 The fortress constructed in square from situated on the
 elevated bank of the river, is equipped with round and low
 towers. The walls need to be repaired. It is uninhabited and is
 not protected. Earlier, the Governors of the province had their
 residence here. Sadatkhan frightened by a bad forecast got it
 transferred to Bangla. Today, it is destroyed from top to
 bottom. In a space of 2 miles, from the place where the canons are
 planted up to ‗Oude‘, the Gagra takes its course towards east,
 making a double bend – one close to the western side of the
 city and the other, a little distance from there, towards the
 West. And bending from there towards the NE# and ¼ E, it
 washes the city in the West; after that, it returns towards the
 East, close to the northern side. But it has been changing its
 course almost every year. Its river bed is equal (in width) to
 that of Danube near the citadel of Ingoldstadt in Bavaria, but
 the volume of water is less. In rainy season, it increases
 breadth-wise in such a way that at some places, its breadth
 exceeds a mile and a half.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

Tieffenthaler‘s account was relied on by various Hindu parties as it emphasises

the following features: PART N (iii) The account contains a reference to the alleged demolition by Aurangzeb

 of ―the fortress called Ram Cot‖ and the construction of a mosque with

 triple domes at the same place. Tieffenthaler however, also records that

 according to some the mosque was constructed by Babur; (iv) Tieffenthaler‘s account contains a reference to the use of fourteen black

 stone pillars which had existed at the site of the erstwhile fortress. Twelve

 of them are stated to support the interior arcades of the mosque. Two are

 stated to be at the entrance of the cloister; (v) He describes a square box raised 5 inches above the ground which

 according to the Hindus is the cradle (representing the birth of Lord Ram); (vi) The account notes that in spite of the alleged demolition (by Aurangzeb or

 Babur), ―there still exists some superstitious cult in some place or other‖

 that continues to worship at the site. An example of that is stated to be the

 place where the ―native house‖ of Lord Ram is thought to have existed,

 around which Hindus circumambulate (―go around‖) three times and

 prostrate on the floor; and (vii) The account makes a reference to the presence of a large gathering of

 people to mark and celebrate the birthday of Lord Ram.

Tieffenthaler‘s travels to Ayodhya were after 1740, which would have been a

little over three decades after the death of Aurangzeb. His account makes a

reference to the faith of the Hindu devotees and contains a reference to the

alleged demolition, in his opinion most likely to have been at the hands of

Aurangzeb, and the erection of a mosque on the site which is believed to be the 667 PART N

birth-place of Lord Ram. The account adverts to the use of many black stone

pillars in the structure of the mosque. 562. Exhibit 20 – Suit 5: Robert Montgomery Martin wrote the ―History,

Antiquities, Topography and Statistics of Eastern India‖ in three volumes.

Martin, born in Dublin in 1801, was an Anglo-Irish author and civil servant.301 He

spent ten years in medical practice in Shillong, East Africa and New South Wales

besides working as a journalist in Calcutta where he established the ―Bengal

Herald‖.302

Martin‘s account on Ayodhya is as follows: This Vikrama is usually supposed to have been the
 personage from whom the era called Sambat is derived, and
 according to the reckoning used in Kosala, this ere
 commences 57 years before the birth of Christ, so that the 301 Robert Montgomery Martin (Biographical details) – British Museum 302 F. H. H. King, Survey our empire! Robert Montgomery Martin (1801–1868), a bio-bibliography (1979) 668 PART N

 city had been then deserted about 280 years. How the places
 remarkable for the actions of the God could be traced after
 such a long interval, and amidst the forest, seems rather
 doubtful; and the doubt will be increased, if we suppose that
 the latter Vikrama, the son-in-law of the Emperor Bhoj, was
 the person who constructed the temples at Ayodhya. This I
 am inclined to think was probably the case, for although
 Rama was probably worshipped before the time of the elder
 Vikrama, yet his worship, as that peculiarly distinguishing a
 sect of Bigots, seems to have been first established by
 Ramanuja about the time of the latter Vikrama, who may from
 thence be supposed peculiarly eager to discover the traces of
 the deity of his own sect. Unfortunately, if these temples ever
 existed, not the smallest trace of them remains to enable us
 to judge of the period when they were built; and the
 destruction is very generally attributed by the Hindus to the
 furious zeal of Aurungzebe, to whom also is imputed the
 overthrow of the temples in Benares and Mathura.‖

Martin‘s account notes some inconsistencies as to the exact ruler who is said to

have rediscovered Ayodhya and constructed the numerous temples. In his view

the worship of Lord Ram in the region was likely carried out even prior to the time

of Vikrama. Martin later refers to the destruction of temples and the erection of

mosques ―on the situations of the most remarkable temples‖ of which, he states

that the mosque at Ayodhya has ―every appearance of being the most modern‖.

His account (at pages 335 and 336) is as follows: 563. Exhibit 5 – Suit 5: Edward Thornton‘s Gazetteer titled ―Gazetteer of the

territories under the Government of East India Company and the Native

States on the Continent of India‖303 first published in 1858. 303 Edward Thornton, 1799-1875: A Gazetteer of the Territories Under the Government of the East-India
Company, And of the Native States On the Continent of India, London: W. H. Allen (1854). 671 PART N

Thornton‘s Gazetteer contains a reference to ―an extensive establishment called

―Hanumangurh, or Fort of Hanuman‖, with an annual revenue of 50,000 settled

on it by Shuja-ud-daulah, ―formerly Nawaub Vizier‖. The revenues are stated to

be dispensed to about 500 bairagis or religious ascetics and other Hindu

mendicants of various descriptions ―no Mussulman being allowed with the walls‖.

Thornton‘s Gazetteer also refers to ―extensive ruins, said to be those of the fort

of Rama‖: 564. Exhibit 123- Suit 5: Surgeon General Edward Balfour wrote the

―Cyclopedia of India and of Eastern and Southern Asia, Commercial,

Industrial and Scientific: Products of the Mineral, Vegetable, and Animal

Kingdoms, Useful Arts and Manufactures‖304. Balfour‘s text refers to Ayodhya: 565. Exhibit 6 – Suit 5: Alexander Cunningham, who was the Director

General of the Archaeological Survey of India compiled the work titled

―Archaeological Survey of India - Four Reports Made During the Years 1862-

63-64-65‖305. Cunningham refers to Ayodhya thus: 566. Exhibit 49- Suit 5: P Carnegy, who was posted as Officiating

Commissioner and Settlement Officer, Faizabad wrote the ―Historical Sketch of

Faizabad With Old Capitals Ajodhia and Fyzabad‖306 (1870). Carnegy

underscores the importance of Ayodhya to the faith of the Hindus: 567. Exhibit 7 – Suit 5: Gazetteer of Oudh (1877): The gazetteer contains a

description in the same terms as the account of Carnegy and therefore does not

need any further elaboration. 677 PART N 568. Exhibit 8 Suit – 5: AF Millet‘s ―The Report of Settlement of Land

Revenue, Faizabad District – (1880)‖ broadly embodies the contents of

Carnegy‘s account. 569. Exhibit 52 – Suit 5: H.R. Nevill, I.C.S. compiled and edited the work titled

―Barabanki: A Gazetteer being Volume XLVIII of the District Gazetteer of the

United Provinces of Agra and Oudh‖ (1902). This contains an account of the

clash between the Hindus and Muslims which occurred in the 1850s. 570. Exhibit 10 – Suit 5: ―The Imperial Gazetteer of India, Provincial series,

United provinces of Agra and Oudh – Vol. II (Allahabad, Banaras,

Gorakhpur, Kumaon, Lucknow and Faizabad divisions and the native

states)‖. The Imperial Gazetteer has the following account of Ayodhya: 571. Exhibit 23 - Suit 5: Hans Baker wrote his work ―Ayodhya‖307 in three

parts. The introduction states that the first part deals with the history of Ayodhya,

the religious movements which governed its development, the local context in

which this took concrete shape and the manner in which it is reflected in the

religious work, Ayodhya Mahatmya. Introducing his work, the author notes: 307 572. William Finch (1608-11) makes a reference to Oude (Ajodhya) ‗a citie of

ancient note, and seate of a Potan king now much ruined‖. Finch notes of a

castle built 400 years earlier and the ruins of ―Ram Chandra‘s castle and

houses‖308. Finch acknowledges the religious beliefs associated with Lord Ram

stating the purpose of his incarnation. Tieffenthaler (1770) refers to the

association of Lord Ram with Ayodhya, and there is a reference to ―a temple in

this place constructed on the elevated bank of the river‖. Tieffenthaler states that

the temple was demolished by Aurangzeb and was replaced with a mosque.

Tieffenthaler has made a specific reference to the demolition by Aurangzeb of 308 Ram Chandra, the hero of the Ramayana. The reference is to the mound known as the Ramkot or fort of
Rama. 682 PART N

the fortress called Ram Cot and to the construction of ―a Muslim temple with

three domes‖ at the same place. Tieffenthaler‘s account also notes that

according to some, the mosque was constructed by Babur. The account contains

a reference to fourteen black stone pillars, twelve of which support the interior

arcades of the mosque, two being placed at the entrance. His account also refers

to the presence of a square box raised five inches above the ground ―with a

length of more than 5 ells and a maximum width of about 4 ells‖. The Hindus,

according to Tieffenthaler, called it a cradle or Bedi based on the belief that once

upon a time there was a house where Beschan (Vishnu) was born in the form of

Lord Ram. Though, subsequently, Aurangzeb or Babur ―got this place destroyed‖,

the text contains an observation that in the place where the native house of Lord

Ram existed, the Hindus ―go around 3 times and prostrate on the floor‖. There is

a reference to the gathering of devotees during the Chaitra month. 573. In assessing Tieffenthaler‘s account (and for that matter those of others)

it is necessary to distinguish between what he may have heard from others from

what he has actually noticed and observed. The former is hearsay.

Tieffenthaler‘s accounts of the existence of the mosque, a three domed

structure with black stone pillars is evidently based on his personal observation.

His opinion that the mosque was constructed most likely by Aurangzeb is

evidently based on what he heard and is not something to his personal

knowledge. Similarly, any finding of fact that the mosque was constructed upon

the demolition of a temple needs independent verification and cannot be based

purely on Tieffenthaler‘s account. The account is certainly of significant value 683 PART N

when it adverts to the existence of the faith and belief of the Hindus in Lord Ram

and of the association of the place of birth in close-proximity to the three-domed

structure where a ―square box‖ was worshipped as symbolizing the cradle of

birth. The account has a reference to the form of worship, by circumambulation

and to the assembly of devotees at the site. 574. Hamilton‘s account in the ―East Indian Gazetteer of Hindustan‖ (1828)

refers to Oude, ―situated on the right bank of the river Goggra. Referring to the

town, Hamilton notes that ―this town is esteemed one of the most sacred places

of antiquity.‖ He adverts to pilgrimages, ―where the remains of the ancient city of

Oude, the capital of the great Rama, are still to be seen; but whatever may have

been its former magnificence it now exhibits nothing but a shapeless mass of

ruins‖. He found ―a mass of rubbish and jungle among which are the reputed

sites of temples dedicated to Rama, Seeta, his wife, Lakshman, his general, and

Hunimaun (a large monkey), his prime minister‖. Hamilton noticed the religious

mendicants, performing the pilgrimage drawn from ―the Ramata sect, who walk

round the temples and idols, bathe in the holy pools, and performed the

customary ceremonies‖. While Hamilton evidently adverts to the belief and faith

in Lord Ram, to the temples at Ayodhya and to the customary forms of worship,

there is no specific observation either about a Ram Janmabhumi temple or to the

mosque. 575. Martin‘s account (1838) contains a reference to the destruction of temples

at Ayodhya ―generally attributed by the Hindus to the furious zeal of Aurangzebe‖,

noting that ―not the smallest trace of them remains‖. The mosque at Ayodhya 684 PART N

which Martin‘s states ―has every appearance of being the most modern‖ is

ascertained by the inscription on its walls to have been built by Babur, five

generations before Aurangzeb. Martin refers to the belief of the people of

Ayodhya that after the death of Vrihadbala, their city was deserted until the time

of ―Vikrama of Ujjain‖ who came in search of the holy city and erected 360

temples on the places sanctified by the belief of Lord Ram. Martin while referring

to ―Vikrama‖, refers both to the originator of the Samvat era and to the latter day

Vikram. According to Martin, it was likely that the worship of Lord Ram dates

back to ―the time of elder Vikrama‖ yet, his worship as a part of a sect must have

been first established by Ramanuja. These are a part of Martin hypothesising on

the origins of the city and its temples. That does not constitute evidence. Martin,

while referring to the pillars in the mosque built by Babur, notes that these are of

black stones and have been taken from a Hindu building, which is evidenced by

the images on some of their bases which have been desecrated. According to

Martin, these pillars would have been taken from the ruins of a palace. Martin‘s

account, as the above analysis indicates, is inferential. While he has spoken of

his own observations in regard to the mosque; of the faith and belief associated

with Lord Ram; and the presence of black stone pillars the account contains

largely an account of his own assessment of past history. 576. Edward Thornton‘s account in the ―Gazetteer of the territories under the

Government of East India Company‖ (1858) refers to ―extensive ruins, said to be

those of the fort of Rama‖. Thornton proceeds to cite extracts from a text

attributed to Buchanan. He makes a reference to the lore surrounding the 685 PART N

construction of 360 temples and to the belief of their demolition by Aurangzeb.

His attribution of the construction of a mosque on the site of a temple is not proof

of a historical fact. Thornton records what he heard: neither those who told him

about their belief nor the author of the document are available to be assessed in

the course of a cross-examination. Such an account cannot meet the rigorous

standards of acceptable evidence as well as the more relaxed standard of a

preponderance of probabilities which govern civil trials. 577. Mr Zafaryab Jilani, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Sunni Central

Waqf Board, has stressed that in the above extract the gazetteer relies upon ―an

inscription on the wall of the mosque‖ to support the theory that the mosque was

constructed by Babur as opposed to the local tradition which ascribed the

construction of the mosque to Aurangzeb. There is according to him, no specific

reference to the worship by the Hindus under the middle dome of the mosque.

However, it is relevant to note that Thornton‘s observations are not personal and

he has drawn an inference from the text of Buchanan.

The purpose of the colonial government was to offer to the British public in ―a

cheap and convenient form‖ authentic information about India in the form of a

gazetteer. Bearing this caveat in mind, it is relevant to note that the above extract

adverts to: (i) The ruins of ―Ramgur or Fort of Rama‖; (ii) The presence of 14 Kasauti stone pillars in the mosque with ―elaborate and

 tasteful workmanship‖ and; 686 PART N (iii) A ―quadrangular coffer of stone‖, believed to be the cradle in which Lord

 Ram was born as the avatar of Lord Vishnu. 578. Cunningham‘s ―Archaeological Survey of India‖ (1862-5) refers to

existence of ―several holy Brahmanical temples about Ajudhya‖ and that the

―ancient temples were destroyed by the Musalmans‖. The report states that ―in

the very heart of the city, stands the Janam Asthan‖, or ―birth-place temple‖ of

Ram‖. The text refers for Ramkot, Swargadwari and notices that ―about one

quarter of a mile distant, in the very heart of the city, stands the Janam Asthan or

‗Birth-place temple‘ of Rama.‖ Mr Jilani contended that the reference to the

Janamsthan or birth-place temple of Ram is not the same as the disputed

structure and that it is located somewhere else. Cunningham‘s account notices

a conglomeration of religious sites including Hanuman Garhi, Swarg Dwar,

Lakshman Ghat and the Janmasthan. 579. P Carnegy as Officiating Commissioner and Settlement Officer has in ―A

Historical Sketch of Faizabad‖ (1870) underscored the importance of Ayodhya to

the faith of Hindus, with a reference to the Janmasthan, Swarga Dwar Mandir and

Treta-Ke-Thakur. He attributes the construction of the mosque to Babur in 1528

A.D. and notes that many of the Kasauti stone columns of an erstwhile temple

have been used in the mosque. His account adverts to ―Ramkot the strong-hold

of Ramchandar‖ and that the fort was ―surrounded by 20 bastions‖, each of which

was believed to have been commanded by one of Lord Ram‘s famous generals.

Carnegy adverted to the conflagration which took place in 1855 between the

Hindus and Muslims and the resultant death of 75 Muslims who were buried in 687 PART N

the graveyard next to the disputed structure. According to Carnegy, until then,

Hindus and Muslims alike used to worship in what he describes as the ―mosque-

temple‖. However, since British Rule, a railing was put up to avoid future conflicts.

Within it, it has been stated, the Muslims pray, while outside the fence the Hindus

raised a platform on which they made their offerings. Carnegy‘s account refers to

three religious sites, including the Janmasthan. His account has attributed the

construction of the mosque to Babur, on the site of the Janmasthan which he

states, ―marks the place where Ram Chander was born‖. 580. Carnegy has relied on Leyden‘s memoirs on the expedition of Babur,

which camped at the junction of the Sarayu and Gogra river, taking notice of the

fact that ―it is remarkable that in all the copies of Babur‘s life now known, the

pages that relate to his doings in Ajudhia are wanting‖. He noted two inscriptions

on the mosque, attributing its construction to 1528 A.D. There is a reference to

the Kasauti stone pillars used in the mosque, which to him, resemble Buddhist

pillars. Based on them, he hypothesises that ―if Ajudhia was then little other than

a wild, it must at least have possessed a fine temple in the Janmasthan; for many

of its columns are still in existence and in good preservation, having been used

by the Musalmans in the construction of the Babri Mosque.‖

Carnegy provides an account of the conflagration of 1855: 581. The Imperial Gazetteer of India (1908) refers to a ―vast mound‖ known as

―Ramkot, or the fort of Rama‖ and the existence at a corner of which is the holy

spot where Lord Ram was born. The gazetteer records that most of the enclosure

is occupied by a mosque built by Babur from the remains of an old temple. It

refers the existence of Ramchabutra in the outer portion that ―marks the birth-

place‖ of Lord Ram. The gazetteer notices the presence of Sita Rasoi in close-

proximity. 582. The District Gazetteer of Faizabad, (1960)309 attributes to Chandragupta

I the status of being the real founder of the kingdom ―which extended upto Saketa

(Awadh) and Prayaga (Allahabad)‖. The credit for restoration of Ayodhya is

attributed to Vikramaditya of Ujjain identified as Chandragupta II. The gazetteer

notes that the Chinese pilgrim Hiuen Tsang (630-644 A.D.) passed through Oudh

and referred to the existence of ―100 Buddhist monasteries, more than 3,000

Mahayani and Hinayani monks and only ten deva (non-Buddhist god) temples,

the non-Buddhist being but few in number‖. According to the gazetteer, most of

the area represented by the beliefs of the Hindus, to be the birth-place of Lord

Ram is occupied by the mosque. The claim by the gazetteer is that the mosque

was constructed on the remains of an old temple. It notices that in the outer

portion, a small platform and shrine marked the birth-place. 583. On his analysis of the gazetteereers and travelogues during the course of

the submissions, Mr Jilani formulated the following propositions: 309 place of Lord Ram did not exist; and (vi) The theory of the middle dome marking the birth-place of Lord Ram only

 comes from the statements of witnesses in Suit 5. The formulation of Mr Jilani that the Ramchabutra is the birth-place will assume

significance from two perspectives: the first is that the entire site comprising of

the inner and outer courtyards is one composite property, the railing being put up

by the colonial government only as a measure to protect peace, law and order.

The second perspective is that Mr Jilani‘s submission postulates: (i) the

acceptance of the position that the birth-place is at an area within the disputed

site (the Ramchabutra, according to him); and (ii) there is no denying the close

physical proximity of Ramchabutra, which was set up right outside the railing. 691 PART N

Evidentiary value of travelogues, gazetteers and books 584. Dr Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

plaintiff in Suit 4 urged that any use of historical material consisting of travelogues

and gazetteereers should be prefaced with caution. Dr Dhavan urged that: Dr Dhavan faulted the methodology followed by Justice S U Khan and Justice

Sudhir Agarwal on the ground that their analysis proceeds on the basis of guess

work. Raising the issue as to how a preponderance of probabilities can be fed

into gazetteereers, he submitted that by relying upon historical material, the High

Court was essentially being asked (as he described it) ―to stand at the cusp of

guess work‖. 585. Analysing the submissions which have been urged, we must at the outset

advert to the decision of the Punjab Chief Court in Farzand Ali v Zafar Ali310. In

that case, there was a dispute between the Mutawalli of a mosque and the

defendants, who were descendants of the late Imam, over certain properties. The

Mutawalli claimed it as a part of a religious endowment. The court held: 310 We must, therefore, exclude this piece of evidence from
 consideration, and we do not think that this exclusion would
 make any difference in the result. The description contained
 in the two books does not advance the case for the plaintiff to
 any appreciable extent, and, indeed, this description can be
 gathered from other admissible evidence on the record.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

A similar view was adopted by a two judge Bench of this Court in Karnataka

Board of Waqf v Government of India311 , where Justice Rajendra Babu

observed: 586. Section 57312 of the Evidence Act 1872 elucidates facts of which judicial

notice must be taken by the court. After delineating 13 categories of fact of which 311 (2004) 10 SCC 779 312 57. Facts of which Court must take judicial notice.—The Court shall take judicial notice of the following
facts:—
[(1) All laws in force in the territory of India;]
(2) All public Acts passed or hereafter to be passed by Parliament [of the United Kingdom], and all local and
personal Acts directed by Parliament [of the United Kingdom] to be judicially noticed;
(3) Articles of War for [the Indian] Army, [Navy or Air Force];
[(4) The course of proceeding of Parliament of the United Kingdom, of the Constituent Assembly of India, of
Parliament and of the legislatures established under any law for the time being in force in a Province or in the
State;]
(5) The accession and the sign manual of the Sovereign for the time being of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland; (6) All seals of which English Courts take judicial notice: the seals of all the [Courts in [India]], and all Courts out
of [India] established by the authority of 8[the Central Government or the Crown Representative]: the seals of
Courts of Admiralty and Maritime Jurisdiction and of Notaries Public, and all seals which any person is authorized
to use by [the Constitution or an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom or an] Act or Regulation having the
force of law in [India]; 693 PART N

judicial notice may be taken, it stipulates that ―in all these cases, and also on all

matters of public history, literature, science and arts, the court may resort to

appropriate books or documents for reference‖. The above provision enables the

court to resort ―for its aid‖ to books and reference documents inter alia on matters

of public history. 587. While extensive reliance has been placed on the gazetteereers by counsel

representing the plaintiffs in Suit 5 and by other counsel appearing for the Hindu

parties, it is necessary to read them in the context of the principles of law which

govern the reliance on gazetteereers. 588. Section 81 of the Evidence Act 1872 requires the court to ―presume the

genuineness of every document purporting to be‖ any Official Gazetteere or the

Government Gazette ―of any colony, dependency or possession of the British

Crown‖.313 Section 81 raises a presumption of the genuineness of the document

(7) The accession to office, names, titles, functions, and signatures of the persons filling for the time being any
public office in any State, if the fact of their appointment to such office is notified in [any Official Gazette];
(8) The existence, title and national flag of every State or Sovereign recognized by [the Government of India];
(9) The divisions of time, the geographical divisions of the world, and public festivals, fasts and holidays notified
in the Official Gazette; (10) The territories under the dominion of [the Government of India];
(11) The commencement, continuance, and termination of hostilities between [the Government of India] and any
other State or body of persons; (12) The names of the members and officers of the Court and of their deputies and subordinate officers and
assistants, and also of all officers acting in execution of its process, and of all advocates, attorneys, proctors,
vakils, pleaders and other persons authorized by law to appear or act before it;
(13) The rule of the road, [on land or at sea]. In all these cases, and also on all matters of public history, literature, science or art, the Court may resort for its
aid to appropriate books or documents of reference.
 If the Court is called upon by any person to take judicial notice of any fact, it may refuse to do so, unless and
until such person produces any such book or document as it may consider necessary to enable it to do so. 313 Section 81 of the Evidence Act 1872 provides thus: 589. In Rajah Muttu Ramalinga Setupati v Perianayagum Pillai315, the Privy

Council dealt with an objection to the judgment of the High Court on the ground

that excessive weight had been given to the reports of Collectors. In that context,

the Privy Council held: 590. In Mahant Shri Srinivasa Ramanuj Das v Surajnarayan Dass318, Justice

Raghubar Dayal , while dealing with the contents of O‘ Malley‘s Puri Gazetteer of

1908, which had elucidated the history of a Math observed: Questions of title raise issues for adjudication. Conflicting claims of title require 698 PART N

judicial adjudication. Statements contained in a text of history or in a gazetteer

cannot conclude the issue of title. 591. In Bala Shankar Maha Shanker Bhattjee v Charity Commissioner,

Gujarat State320 , the issue was whether the temple of Kalika Shrine on

Pavagadh was a public trust within the meaning of the Bombay Public Trust Act

1950. In this context, a two judge Bench of this Court held: 592. The historical material which has been relied upon in the course of the

proceedings before the High Court must be weighed in the context of the salutary

principles which emerge from the above decisions. The court may have due 320 1995 Supp (1) SCC 485 321 2019 SCCOnLine 953 699 PART N

regard to appropriate books and reference material on matters, of public history.

Yet, when it does so, the court must be conscious of the fact that the statements

contained in travelogues as indeed in the accounts of gazetteers reflect opinions

on matters which are not amenable to be tested by cross-examination at this

distant point of time. Consequently, where there is a dispute pertaining to

possession and title amidst a conflict of parties, historical accounts cannot be

regarded as conclusive. The court must then decide the issue in dispute on the

basis of credible evidentiary material. 593. Interpreting history is an exercise fraught with pitfalls. There are evident

gaps in the historical record, as we have seen from the Babur-Nama.

Translations vary and have their limitations. The court must be circumspect in

drawing negative inferences from what a historical text does not contain. We are

not construing a statute or a pleading. We are looking into historical events knit

around legends. stories, traditions and accounts written in a social and cultural

context different from our own. There are dangers in interpreting history without

the aid of historiography. Application of legal principles to make deductions and

inferences out of historical context is a perilous exercise. One must exercise

caution before embarking on the inclination of a legally trained mind to draw

negative inferences from the silences of history. Silences are sometimes best left

to where they belong - the universe of silence. 594. In a contribution to the Times Literary Supplement on 19 June 1953 titled

―Victorian History‖, E.H Carr had the following caution: 700 595. On 13 May 1991, four historians prepared a document which is titled: The conclusions in the study were: 596. Justice Sudhir Agarwal noted that the report had not been signed by

Professor D N Jha, a fact which was admitted by Professor Suraj Bhan (PW 16)

who deposed in evidence. The report indicated that the material from the

excavations of Professor B B Lal had not been available for inspection to the four

historians. Having extracted from the deposition of PW 16, Justice Agarwal rejected his

expertise on the ground that he was an archaeologist and not an authority on

medieval history. 597. Justice Agarwal proceeded to analyse the evidence of Suvira Jaiswal (PW 18), formerly a Professor at Jawahar Lal Nehru University. PW 18 stated that her

knowledge about the destroyed site was on the basis of newspapers or the work

of other historians. Justice Agarwal questioned the credentials of PW 18, noting

that she was a doctoral student under the guidance of Professor R S Sharma

who was a co-author of the report. Ultimately, he concluded that the report had

not been signed by all the four historians (Professor DN Jha not having signed it)

and the opinion of an alleged expert (PW 18) was not based on her study and

research but a reflection of what others had written. Accordingly, the learned 704 PART N

judge held that it was not credible evidence under Section 45 of the Evidence

Act. Dr Dhavan has submitted that on the sole basis of the report not having been

signed by Professor D N Jha, Justice Sudhir Agarwal erroneously proceeded to

make strictures against the four historians. He urged that while assessing the

credibility of the historians, the learned Judge confounded his assessment of PW

18 with the authors of the report. These observations, it has been urged did not

pertain to the historians but to PW 18. 598. We are of the view that Justice Agarwal has been unjustifiably harsh on

the four historians. The learned judge seems to have confounded his criticism of

PW 18 (who had only relied on the work of others without any independent

assessment) with the report of the historians. PW 18 was not part of the team of

historians. The fact that one of the four historians did not sign on the covering

document was not reason enough to discard the work in its entirety. The weight

which could be attributed to the historians‘ report is a distinct matter but, while

analysing this aspect, it was not necessary for the High Court to make

observations in regard to the personal standing and qualifications of the

historians. It is thus necessary to clarify that those observations were

unnecessary for the exercise which was being embarked upon by the High Court.

Having said this, it is evident from the report of the four historians that they did

not have the benefit of inspecting the material on the basis of which Dr B B Lal

had conducted his research in 1979. But that apart and more significantly, the 705 PART O

report by the historians pre-dates the material which has emerged in the form of

the ASI report which was prepared during the pendency of the suit in pursuance

of the directions of the High Court. Since the four historians did not have the

benefit of that material which has now been assessed by this Court in the earlier

segment of this judgment, it is not necessary to carry the matter any further save

and except to clarify that the historians‘ report which is prior to the report of ASI,

cannot carry any significant degree of weight, since they have not had the benefit

of analysing the material which has emerged from the ASI report. The inferences

which have been drawn by the historians in regard to the faith and belief of the

Hindus in the birth-place of Lord Ram constitute their opinion. Evidence having

been led in the suits, this Court cannot rest a finding of fact on the report of the

historians and must evaluate the entirety of the evidence. The issue of title,

insofar as Suit 5 is concerned, has to be decided together with Suit 4 on an

overall assessment of the evidence. Hence, at the present stage, the next

segment of the judgment will proceed with analyzing Suit 4. The question of title

will be ultimately adjudicated after marshaling the entirety of the evidence. 599. Suit 4 was instituted on 18 December 1961 by the Sunni Central Waqf

Board. As amended, the following reliefs have been sought in the plaint: The suit is based on the averment that in Ayodhya, there is an ancient historic

mosque known commonly as Babri Masjid which was constructed by Babur more

than 433 years ago following his conquest of India and the occupation of its

territories. It has been averred that the mosque was built for the use of the

Muslims in general as a place of worship and for the performance of religious

ceremonies. The main construction of the mosque is depicted by the letters A B

C D on the plan annexed to the plaint. Adjoining the land is a graveyard.

According to the plaintiffs, both the mosque and the graveyard vest in the

Almighty and since the construction of the mosque, it has been used by the

Muslims for offering prayers while the graveyard has been used for burial. It has

been averred that a cash grant was paid from the royal treasury for the upkeep

and maintenance of the mosque, which was continued by the Nawab Wazir of

Oudh. After the annexation of Oudh, the British Government continued the ‗cash 707 PART O

nankar‘ until 1864 by revenue free grants in the villages of Sholapur and

Bahoranpur in the vicinity of Ayodhya. 600. The plaint alleged that outside the main building of the mosque, Hindu

worship was being conducted at a Chabutra admeasuring 17 x 21 feet on which

there was a small wooden structure in the form of a tent. The plaint contains a

recital of the Suit of 1885 instituted by Mahant Raghubar Das for permission to

build a temple on the Chabutra together with a reference to the dismissal of the

suit. According to the plaintiffs, Mahant Raghubar Das sued on behalf of himself,

the Janmasthan and the whole body of persons interested in it. The Mutawalli of

Babri Masjid was made a defendant. According to the plaintiffs, the decision in the suit operates as res judicata on the

ground that the matter directly and substantially in issue was: (i) The existence of Babri Masjid; and (ii) The rights of Hindus to construct on the land adjoining the mosque.

The plaint contains a reference to the riots of 1934 and to the restoration of the

portions of the mosque which were damaged, at the cost of the government.

According to the plaintiffs, following the enactment of the UP Muslim Waqfs Act 1936, an enquiry was conducted by the Commissioner of Waqfs and the report of

the Commissioner was published in the official gazette. The plaintiffs claimed that

Muslims have been in peaceful possession of the mosque which was used for

prayer until 23 December 1949 when a crowd of Hindus is alleged to have 708 PART O

entered the mosque and desecrated it by placing idols inside. According to the

plaintiffs, assuming without admitting that there existed a Hindu temple as alleged

by the defendants on the site of which the mosque was built 433 years ago by

Emperor Babur, the Muslims by virtue of their long, exclusive and continuous

possession commencing from the construction of the mosque and ensuing until

its desecration, perfected their title by adverse possession. The plaint then

proceeds to make a reference to the proceedings under Section 145 and to the

institution of civil suits before the Civil Judge at Faizabad. As a result of the order

of injunction in Suit 2 of 1950, Hindus have been permitted to perform puja of the

idols placed within the mosque but Muslims have been prevented from entering.

It has been averred that the suit has been instituted on behalf of the entire

Muslim community together with an application under Order I Rule 8 of the CPC . 601. It has been stated that the receiver who is in possession holds the property

for the real owner and the plaintiffs would be entitled to possession if the suit

succeeds. Alternatively, a plea for possession has also been made. The plaint

was amended following the demolition of Babri Masjid to place subsequent facts

and events on the record. According to the plaintiffs, a mosque does not require

any particular structure and even after the demolition of the mosque, the land on

which it stood continues to remain a mosque in which Muslims are entitled to

offer prayers. The plaint adverts to the acquisition of the land under

the Acquisition of Certain Areas of Ayodhya Act 1993.

According to the plaintiffs, the cause of action for the suit arose on 23 December

1949 when the Hindus are alleged to have wrongfully entered the mosque and 709 PART O

desecrated it by placing idols inside the mosque. The injuries are claimed to be

continuing in nature. As against the state, the cause of action is alleged to have

arisen on 29 December 1949 when the property was attached by the City

Magistrate who handed over possession to the receiver. The respondent

assumed charge on 5 January 1950. The reliefs which have been claimed in the suit are based on the above

averments. Essentially, the case of the plaintiffs proceeds on the plea that: 602. Suit 4 was instituted on 18 December 1961 by the Sunni Central Waqf

Board and nine Muslims resdients of Ayodhya. Defendant no 1 in Suit 4 is Gopal

Singh Visharad; defendant no 2 is Ram Chander Dass Param Hans; defendant

no 3 is Nirmohi Akhara; defendant no 4 is Mahant Raghunath Das; defendant no

5 is the State of U.P.; defendant no 6 is the Collector, Faizabad; defendant no 7

is the City Magistrate, Faizabad; defendant no 8 is the Superintendent of Police

of Faizabad; defendant no 9 is Priyadutt Ram; defendant no 10 is the President, 710 PART O

Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha; defendant no 13 is Dharam Das; defendant no

17 is Ramesh Chandra Tripathi; and defendant no 20 is Madan Mohan Gupta. 603. Now with these principles in mind, it is necessary to carefully scrutinise the

pleadings in Suit 4 in regard to the assertion of possession. The plea in

paragraph 2 of the plaint is that the mosque has since the time of its construction

by Babur been used by the Muslims for offering prayers and that the Muslims

have been in the peaceful possession of the mosque in which prayers were

recited till 23 December 1949. The alternate plea is that assuming (without

admitting) that there existed a Hindu temple as alleged by the Hindus on the site

on which the mosque was built, the Muslims by virtue of their long, exclusive and

continuous possession beginning from the time when the mosque was built and

continuing until it was desecrated (by the placing of idols) perfected their title by

adverse possession and ―the right, title or interest of the temple and of the Hindu

public if any, extinguished‖. The claim of possession is hence based on the plea

that there has been a continuous use of the mosque for offering prayers since its

inception and that this use has been long, continuous and exclusive.

O.2 Written statements

Gopal Singh Visharad 604. In the written statement filed by Gopal Singh Visharad, the first defendant

(who is also the plaintiff in Suit 1), it has been stated that if the Muslims were in

possession of the mosque, it ceased in 1934. The Hindus claim to be in

possession after 1934 and their possession is stated to have ripened into 711 PART O

adverse possession. According to the written statement, no prayers were offered

in the mosque since 1934. Moreover, no individual Hindu or Mahant can be said

to represent the entire Hindu community. Hindu puja is stated to be continuing

inside the structure, which is described as a temple since 1934 and admittedly

since January 1950, following the order of the City Magistrate. In an additional

written statement, a plea has been taken that the UP Muslim Waqfs Act 1936 is

ultra vires. It has been averred that any determination under the Act cannot

operate to decide a question of title against non-Muslims. In a subsequent written

statement, it has been stated that Hindus have worshipped the site of the

Janmabhumi since time immemorial; the Muslims were never in possession of

the Janmabhumi temple and, if they were in possession, it ceased in 1934. The

suit is alleged to be barred by limitation. As regards the Suit of 1885, it has been submitted that the plaintiff was not suing

in a representative capacity and was only pursuing his personal interest;

Nirmohi Akhara 605. The written statement of Nirmohi Akhara denies the existence of a

mosque. Nirmohi Akhara states that it was unaware of any suit filed by Mahant

Raghubar Das. According to it, a mosque never existed at the site and hence

there was no occasion for the Muslim community to offer prayers till 23

December 1949. It is urged that the property described as Babri mosque is and

has always been a temple of Janmabhumi with idols of Hindu Gods installed

within. According to the written statement, the temple on Ramchabutra had been 712 PART O

judicially recognised in the Suit of 1885. It was urged that the Janmabhumi

temple was always in the possession of Nirmohi Akhara and none else but the

Hindus were allowed to enter and offer worship. The offerings are stated to have

been received by the representative of Nirmohi Akhara. After the attachment,

only the pujaris of Nirmohi Akhara are claimed to have been offering puja to the

idols in the temple. The written statement contains a denial of Muslim worship in

the structure at least since 1934 and it is urged that Suit 4 is barred by limitation.

In the additional written statement, Nirmohi Akhara has denied that the findings in

the Suit of 1885 operate as res judicata. There is a denial of the allegation that

the Muslims have perfected their title by adverse possession.

State of Uttar Pradesh 606. The State of Uttar Pradesh filed its written statement to the effect that the

government is not interested in the property in dispute and does not propose to

contest the suit. Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Mahasabha 607. In the written statement filed on behalf of the tenth defendant, Akhil

Bhartiya Hindu Mahasabha, it has been averred that upon India regaining

independence, there is a revival of the original Hindu law as a result of which the

plaintiffs cannot claim any legal or constitutional right. In an additional written

statement, the tenth defendant denies the incident of 22 December 1949 and

claims that the idols were in existence at the place in question from time 713 PART O

immemorial. According to the written statement, the site is the birth-place of Lord

Ram and no mosque could have been constructed at the birth-place.

Abhiram Das and Dharam Das 608. The written statement by Abhiram Das and by Dharam Das, who claims to

be his chela, questions the validity of the construction of a mosque at the site of

Ram Janmabhumi. According to the written statement, the site is landlocked and

surrounded by places of Hindu worship and hence such a building cannot be a

valid mosque in Muslim law. The written statement contains a denial of a valid

waqf on the ground that a waqf cannot be based on adverse possession.

According to the written statement, at Ram Janmabhumi there was an ancient

temple tracing back to the rule of Vikramaditya which was demolished by Mir

Baqi. It has been averred that Ram Janmabhumi is indestructible as the deity is

divine and immortal. In spite of the construction of the mosque, it has been

submitted, the area has continued to be in the possession of the deities and no

one could enter the three-domed structure except after passing through Hindu

places of worship. The written statements filed by the other Hindu defendants

broadly follow similar lines. Replications were filed to the written statements of

the Hindu parties. 714 PART O

O.3 Issues and findings of the High Court 609. 1 Whether the building in question described as mosque in the

sketch map attached to the plaint was a mosque as claimed by the

plaintiffs. If the answer is in the affirmative- (a) When was it built and by whom whether by Babar as

 alleged by the plaintiffs or by Mir Baqi as alleged by

 defendant no 13; (b) Whether the building had been constructed on the site of

 an alleged Hindu temple after demolishing the same as

 alleged by defendant no 13; If so, its effect

  Justice S U Khan - The construction of a mosque took place

 by or under the orders of Babur. Whether it was actually built

 by Mir Baqi or someone else is not material. Muslims offered

 regular prayers until 1934, after which until 22 December

 1949, only Friday prayers were offered. This is sufficient for

 continuous possession and use. No temple was demolished

 for the construction of the mosque. Until the mosque was

 constructed during the period of Babur, the premises were not

 believed to be or treated as the birth-place of Lord Ram.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in favour of the plaintiffs. 1(a): Answered in the negative – plaintiffs have failed to prove

 the construction of the structure by Babur. In the absence of 715 PART O

 pleadings and evidence, no certain finding can be returned on

 who had constructed the structure but an informed guess is

 that it was constructed during the regime of Aurangzeb (1659-

 1707 A.D.). 1(b) – Answered in the affirmative.  Justice D V Sharma - Issue Nos 1 and 1(a) answered

 against the plaintiffs. Issue 1(b) answered in favour of the defendants on the basis

 of the ASI Report. 1(b)(a) Whether the building existed at Nazul plot no.583 of the Khasra

 of the year 1931 of Mohalla Kot Ram Chandra known as Ram

 Kot, City Ayodhya (Nazul estate?) Ayodhya. If so its effect

 thereon.  Justice S U Khan - Following the demolition of the structure

 on 6 December 1992, it is no longer necessary to decide the

 question of identification of the property.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal – Though the building is shown to

 be situated on Nazul plot number 583 of the Khasra of 1931

 of Mohalla Kot Ram Chandra, it will not impact upon the claim

 of the two communities since the State of Uttar Pradesh has

 not staked any claim, having filed a written statement of no

 contest.  Justice D V Sharma - The property existed on Nazul plot

 number 583 of Khasra of 1931 belonging to the government. 716 PART O

1-B(b) Whether the building stood dedicated to almighty God as

 alleged by the plaintiffs.  Justice S U Khan - The mosque was a valid mosque.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Not answered, being irrelevant.

  Justice D V Sharma - Answered against the plaintiffs.

1-B(c) Whether the building had been used by the members of the

 Muslim community for offering prayers from time immemorial.

 If so, its effect.  Justice S U Khan - Until 1934, the mosque which was

 constructed by or under the orders of Babur was being used

 for regular prayers by Muslims. From 1934 until 22 December

 1949, only Friday prayers were conducted but this is sufficient

 to indicate continuance of possession and use.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Since both the parties were using

 the structure in accordance with their respective forms of

 worship, belief and faith for 80 years prior to the institution of

 the first suit, the inner courtyard and the building were not

 restricted for use by one community.  Justice D V Sharma – Answered against the plaintiffs.

2 Whether the plaintiffs were in possession of the property in

 suit upto 1949 and were dispossessed from the same in 1949

 as alleged in the plaint. 717 PART O

  Justice S U Khan - Title follows possession. Hence, both

 parties held to be joint title-holders in possession of the

 premises in dispute.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice D V Sharma - Answered against the plaintiffs

3 Is the suit within time.  Justice S U Khan - The suit is not barred by limitation.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice D V Dharma - The suit

 is barred by limitation. 4 Whether the Hindus in general and the devotees of 'Bhagwan

 Sri Ram in particular have perfected right of prayers at the site

 by adverse and continuous possession as of right for more

 than the statutory period of time by way of prescription as

 alleged by the defendants.  Justice S U Khan - Both parties held to be joint title-holders

 in possession since prior to 1885 and hence it is not

 necessary to decide the question of adverse possession.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Since 1856-57, the outer courtyard

 has not been used or possessed by Muslims but the inner

 courtyard has been used by both parties.  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs. 718 PART O

5 (a) Are the defendants estopped from challenging the character of

 property in suit as a waqf under the administration of plaintiff

 No.1 in view of the provision of Section 5(3) of U.P. Act 13 of

 1936. (This issue has already been decided in the negative

 vide order dated 21.4.1966 by the learned Civil Judge)

  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Sudhir Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice D V Sharma - The issue has

 been answered against the plaintiffs by the order of the Civil Judge

 dated 21 April 1966. 5 (b) Has the said Act no application to the right of Hindus in

 general and defendants in particular, to the right of their

 worship.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice D V Sharma - Decided in

 favour of the defendants and the Hindu parties, against the plaintiffs.

5 (c) Were the proceedings under the said Act conclusive. (This

 issue has already been decided in the negative vide order dated

 21 April 1996 by the learned Civil Judge).  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal. 719 PART O

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Decided by the order of the civil judge

 dated 21 April 1966 that the bar of Section 5(3) under UP Act XIII of

 1936 does not hit the defence of the defendants of the leading case.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided in the negative by the order dated

 21 April 1966. 5 (d) Are the said provisions of Act XIII of 1936 ultra-vires as alleged

 in written statement. (This issue was not pressed by counsel

 for the defendants, hence not answered by the learned Civil

 Judge, vide his order dated 21 April 1966).  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice D V Sharma - Issue 5(d) has

 not been pressed. 5 (e) Whether in view of the findings recorded by the learned Civil

 Judge on 21 April 1996 on issue no.17 to the effect that, "No

 valid notification under section 5(1) of the Muslim Waqf Act

 (No. XIII of 1936) was ever made in respect of the property in

 dispute", the plaintiff Sunni Central Board of Waqf has no right

 to maintain the present suit.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Decided in favour of the plaintiffs subject

 to issue 6 in Suit 3 which has also been decided in favour of the

 defendants. 720 PART O

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

5 (f) Whether in view of the aforesaid finding, the suit is barred on

 account of lack of jurisdiction and limitation as it was filed after

 commencement of the U P Muslim Waqf Act, 1960.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in the negative in favour of the

 plaintiffs and against the defendants. 6 Whether the present suit is a representative suit, plaintiffs

 representing the interest of the Muslims and defendants

 representing the interest of the Hindus.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in the affirmative.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided in favour of the plaintiffs.

7 (a) Whether Mahant Reghubar Das, plaintiff of Suit No.61/280 of

 1885, had sued on behalf of Janmasthan and whole body of

 persons interested in it.  Justice S U Khan - The decision in Suit of 1885 does not attract the

 principles of Section 11 of CPC, since virtually nothing was decided

 in the suit. 721 PART O

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in the negative. The Suit of

 1885 was not filed by Mahant Raghubar Das on behalf of the

 Janmasthan and the whole body of persons interested in it.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

7 (b) Whether Mohammad Asghar was the Mutawalli of alleged Babri

 Masjid and did he contest the suit for and on behalf of any such

 mosque.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Decided in favour of the plaintiffs.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

7 (c) Whether in view of the judgment in the said suit, the members

 of the Hindu community, including the contesting defendants,

 are estopped from denying the title of the Muslim community,

 including the plaintiffs of the present suit, to the property in

 dispute. If so, its effect.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Decided in the negative.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

7 (d) Whether in the aforesaid suit, title of the Muslims to the

 property in dispute or any portion thereof was admitted by

 plaintiff of that suit. If so, its effect.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in the negative. There was no

 admission by the plaintiff in the Suit of 1885 about the title of the

 Muslims to the property in dispute.  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs. 722 PART O

8 Does the judgment in Suit No.61/280 of 1885, Mahant Raghubar

 Das Vs. Secretary of State and others, operate as res judicata

 against the defendants in suit.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in the negative.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs; the judgment

 will not operate as res judicata. 10 Whether the plaintiffs have perfected their rights by adverse

 possession as alleged in the plaint.  Justice S U Khan - Both parties are in joint possession before

 1885. Hence, there is no need to determine the issue of adverse

 possession.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice D V Sharma - Answered

 against the plaintiffs and Muslims. 11 Is the property in suit the site of Janam Bhumi of Sri Ram

 Chandraji.  Justice S U Khan - No temple was demolished for constructing the

 mosque. Until the mosque was constructed during the period of

 Babur, the premises in dispute were not treated or believed to be the

 birth-place of Lord Ram.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - The place of birth believed in and

 worshipped by the Hindus is the area covered under the central

 dome of the disputed structure in the inner courtyard

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs. 723 PART O

12 Whether idols and objects of worship were placed inside the

 building in the night intervening 22nd and 23rd December 1949

 as alleged in paragraph 11 of the plaint or they have been in

 existence there since before. In either case the effect.

  Justice S U Khan - Idols were kept on the pulpit inside the

 constructed portion of the mosque for the first time during the night

 between 22/23 December 1949.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - The plaintiffs have failed to prove that the

 idols and objects were placed inside the building during the night

 intervening 22/23 December 1949. The idols and objects existed

 even prior to 22 December 1949 in the outer courtyard. The issue is

 answered in the negative.  Justice D V Sharma - The plaintiffs have failed to prove that the

 idols and objects of worship were installed in the building in the night

 intervening 22/23 December 1949. 13 Whether the Hindus in general and defendants in particular had

 the right to worship the ‗Charans‘ and 'Sita Rasoi' and idols and

 objects of worship, if any, existing in or upon the property in

 suit.  Justice S U Khan - Title follows possession and both parties were

 joint title-holders in possession of the premises in dispute.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Hindus in general had been entering the

 premises within the inner courtyard as a matter of right for several

 centuries, hence the issue is answered in the affirmative. 724 PART O

  Justice DV Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

14 Have the Hindus been worshipping the place in dispute as Sri

 Ram Janam Bhumi or Janam Asthan and visiting it as a sacred

 place of pilgrimage as of right since time immemorial. If so, its

 effect.  Justice S U Khan - No temple was demolished for constructing the

 mosque. Until the construction of the mosque during the period of

 Babur, the premises were neither treated nor believed to be the

 birth-place of Lord Ram.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in the affirmative.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

15 Whether the Muslims been in possession of the property in

 suit from 1528 A.D. continuously, openly and to the knowledge

 of the defendants and Hindus in general. If so, Its effect.

  Justice S U Khan -There is no need to decide the question of

 adverse possession since both parties are joint title-holders in

 possession.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice DV Sharma - Answered

 against the plaintiffs and the Muslims. 16 To what relief, if any are the plaintiffs or any of them, entitled.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal. 725 PART O

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - The suit is liable to be dismissed as

 being barred by limitation.  Justice D V Sharma - The plaintiffs are not entitled to any relief and

 the suit is dismissed. 17 Whether a valid notification under section 5 (1) of the U.P.

 Muslim Waqf Act No. XIII of 1936 relating to the property in suit

 was ever done. If so, its effect. (This issue has already been

 decided by the learned Civil Judge by order dated 21.04.1966)

  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice D V Sharma - Decided by the

 order dated 21 April 1966 of the Civil Judge. 18 What is the effect of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Gulam Abbas and others v State of UP and others , (A.I.R. 1981

 Supreme Court 2198) on the finding of the learned Civil Judge

 recorded on 21st April, 1966 on issue no 17.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - The decision of the Supreme Court does

 not affect the findings on issue 17.  Justice DV Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

19(a) Whether even after construction of the building in suit, deities

 of Bhagwan Sri Ram Virajman and the Asthan Sri Ram Janam 726 PART O

 Bhumi continued to exist on the property in suit as alleged on

 behalf of defendant no 13 and the said places continued to be

 visited by devotees for purpose of worship. If so whether the

 property in dispute continued to vest in the said deities.

  Justice S U Khan - No temple was demolished for constructing the

 mosque. Until the mosque was constructed during the period of

 Babur, the premises were neither believed nor treated to be the

 birth-place of Lord Ram.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - The premises which are believed to the

 place of birth of Lord Ram continued to vest in the deity. Hindu

 religious structures in the outer courtyard cannot be held to be the

 property of the plaintiffs.  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

19(b) Whether the building was land-locked and cannot be reached

 except by passing through places of Hindu worship. If so, its

 effect.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in the affirmative to the extent

 that the building was land-locked and could not be reached except

 by passing through places of Hindu worship. However, this by itself

 is of no consequence.  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs. 727 PART O

19(c) Whether any portion of the property in suit was used as a place

 or worship by the Hindus immediately prior to the construction

 of the building in question. If the finding is in the affirmative,

 whether no mosque could come into existence in view of the

 Islamic tenets at the place in dispute.  Justice S U Khan - No temple was demolished for constructing the

 mosque. Until the mosque was constructed during the period of

 Babur, the premises were neither believed nor treated to be the

 birth-place of Lord Ram.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Hindus were worshiping at the place in

 dispute before the construction of the disputed structure. However,

 insofar as the second part is concerned, it has no relevance, being

 hypothetical.  Justice D V Sharma - The property in suit is the site of

 Janmabhumi of Lord Ram and the defendants had a right to

 worship. The Hindus have been doing that since time immemorial.

19(d) Whether the building in question could not be a mosque under

 the Islamic law in view of the admitted position that it did not

 have minarets.  Justice S U Khan - It cannot be said that the mosque was not a

 valid mosque.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in favour of the plaintiffs.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs. 728 PART O

19(e) Whether the building in question could not legally be a mosque

 as on plaintiffs own showing it was surrounded by a grave-yard

 on three sides?  Justice S U Khan - It cannot be said that the mosque was not a

 valid mosque.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in favour of the plaintiffs.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

19(f) Whether the pillars inside and outside the building in question

 contain images of Hindu Gods and Goddesses. If the finding is

 in affirmative, whether on that account the building in question

 cannot have the character of mosque under the tenets of Islam.

  Justice S U Khan - No temple was demolished for constructing the

 mosque. Until the construction of the mosque, the premises were

 neither treated nor believed to be the birth-place of Lord Ram.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - The first part is answered in the

 affirmative. The second part is redundant and left unanswered. In

 the ultimate result, the issue is answered in favour of the plaintiffs.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

20(a) Whether the waqf in question cannot be a Sunni Waqf as the

 building was not allegedly constructed by a Sunni

 Mohammedan but was allegedly constructed by Mir Baqi who

 was allegedly a Shia Muslim and the alleged Mutawallis were

 allegedly Shia Mohammedans. If so, its effect. 729 PART O

  Justice S U Khan -It cannot be said that the mosque was not a

 valid mosque.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Irrelevant and not answered.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

20(b) Whether there was a Mutawalli of the alleged Waqf and whether

 the alleged Mutawalli, not having joined in the suit, the suit is

 not maintainable so far as it relates to relief for possession.

  Justice S U Khan – In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - At the time of the attachment of the

 building, there was a mutawalli and in the absence of whom relief of

 possession cannot be allowed to the plaintiffs in their capacity as

 worshippers.  Justice D V Sharma - The suit is held not to be maintainable.

21 Whether the suit is bad for non-joinder of alleged deities.  Justice S U Khan - Though, the deity is not a defendant, the suit

 cannot be dismissed on this ground as the deity is sufficiently

 represented.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Answered in favour of the plaintiffs.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs. 730 PART O

22 Whether the suit is liable to be dismissed with special costs.  Justice S U Khan – In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - No special costs need to be awarded.

  Justice D V Sharma - The plaintiffs are not entitled to any relief: the

 suit is dismissed with easy costs. 23 Is the Waqf Board an instrumentality of State. If so, whether the

 Board can file a suit against the State itself.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Neither is the Waqf Board an

 instrumentality of the State nor is there any bar to the filing of the

 suit by the Waqf Board against the State.  Justice D V Sharma - The suit is not maintainable.

24 Is the Waqf Board ‗State‘ under Article 12 of the Constitution? If

 so, can the said Waqf Board being state file any suit in a

 representative capacity sponsoring the case of particular

 community and against the interest of another community.

  Justice S U Khan – In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Sudhir Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Neither is the Sunni Central Waqf Board

 an instrumentality of the State nor is there any bar to the filing of a

 suit by the Waqf Board against the State. 731 PART O

  Justice D V Sharma - The suit is not maintainable.

25 Whether on the demolition of the dispute structure as claimed

 by the plaintiff, it can still be called a mosque and if not

 whether the claim of the plaintiffs is liable to be dismissed as

 no longer maintainable.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Suit 4 cannot be held to be not

 maintainable as a result of the demolition of the disputed structure.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

26 Whether Muslims can use the open site as mosque to offer

 prayer when the structure which stood thereon has been

 demolished.  Justice S U Khan - In the absence of any specific finding, he has

 stated that he is in agreement with Justice Sudhir Agarwal.

  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - Suit 4 cannot be held not to be

 maintainable as a result of the demolition of the disputed structure.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

27 Whether the outer courtyard contained Ramchabutra, Bhandar

 and Sita Rasoi. If so whether they were also demolished on 6

 December 1992 along with the main temple. 732 PART O

  Justice S U Khan - Ramchabutra came into existence before the

 visit of Tieffenthaler (1766-1771 A.D.) but after the construction of

 the mosque (1528 A.D.).  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - All parties admitted that the three

 structures were demolished on 6 December 1992 when the disputed

 structure was demolished. Hence, answered in the affirmative.

  Justice D V Sharma - Decided in the affirmative. 28 Whether the defendant no 3 has ever been in possession of the

 disputed site and the plaintiffs were never in its possession.

  Justice S U Khan - Both parties are joint title-holders in possession

 of the premises in dispute.  Justice Sudhir Agarwal - The plaintiffs have failed to prove their

 possession of the outer and inner courtyards including the disputed

 building.  Justice D V Sharma - Decided against the plaintiffs.

The view of the High Court

Two of the three judges of the High Court (Justice SU Khan and Justice Sudhir

Agarwal) directed a three-way division of the disputed premises: 57 when the dividing railing was raised by the British. Muslims have had at

 best, only a right of passage through the outer courtyard; (ii) The possession of the Hindus over the outer courtyard was open and to

 the knowledge of the Muslims. This is evidenced by the documents of 1858

 which indicate that the Mutawalli of the mosque had made several

 complaints, in spite of which the structures continued in the premises as

 did the entry and worship of the Hindus in the outer courtyard; (iii) There is no evidence of the Muslims being in possession of the property in

 dispute. While it cannot be held that the Muslims did not visit the inner

 courtyard at all or that no namaz was offered till 1949, that by itself will not

 amount to possession in law. There was a beneficial enjoyment by the

 Muslims with the Hindus and the Muslims thus visited the inner courtyard

 for worshipping in their own way; 734 PART O (iv) Though there is a claim of the plaintiffs that since regular namaz was

 offered in the inner courtyard, the receiver would have recovered requisite

 material relatable to its use, no such material was found, leading to the

 inference that none existed. This weakens the claim of the Muslims to

 exclusive possession in the form of continuous worship; (v) The Muslims did not abandon the property in dispute. They continued to

 exercise a claim over it, getting it recognised by the British government in

 the form of a grant for upkeep and maintenance. The maintenance of the

 building to the extent of the disputed structure and the partition wall is

 evident as is the entry of Muslims into the inner courtyard for namaz. While

 both the Hindus and Muslims visited the disputed property as worshippers,

 the only distinction was that Hindus visited the entire property while

 Muslims were confined to the inner courtyard for the purposes of offering

 prayers; (vi) While Muslims have failed to prove that the property in Suit 4 was in their

 exclusive possession up to 1949, both the communities were in

 possession of the inner courtyard; (vii) The outer courtyard was not in the possession of the Muslims as of 1949

 and even prior thereto. Insofar as the inner courtyard is concerned, the

 Muslims have discontinued their possession from 23 December 1949.

 Prior thereto, the possession of the inner courtyard was enjoyed by both

 Hindus and Muslims; and (viii) Hindu religious structures existed in the outer courtyard since sometime

 after 1856-7 and were being managed and administered by the priests of 735 PART O

 Nirmohi Akhara. Therefore, to the extent of the outer courtyard, the

 disputed site can be said to have been in possession of the Nirmohi

 Akhara while the Muslims ceased to have possession over it. The inner

 courtyard was not in the exclusive possession of either of the parties and it

 was visited by members of both the communities without any obstruction.

In allowing the entirety of the claim of the plaintiffs in Suit 5, Justice D V Sharma

held: Maintainability of Suit 4 611. During the course of hearing, Mr Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel

objected to the maintainability of Suit 4 on the ground that the suit could have

only been instituted at the behest of a Mutawalli. It was urged that the Sunni

Central Waqf Board had no locus to institute the proceeding. There is no merit in

the submission. Section 19(2) of the UP Muslim Waqf Act 1960 specifically 736 PART O

empowers the board to adopt measures for the recovery of property and to

institute and defend suits relating to waqfs. Under Section 3(2) , the Board is

defined to mean the Sunni Central Waqf Board, or the Shia Central Waqf Board

constituted under the Act. Clearly, therefore in terms of the statutory power, the

Sunni Central Waqf Board has authority to institute legal proceedings.

O.4 Limitation in Suit 4

Pleadings 612. In the plaint in Suit 4, the cause of action for the institution of the

proceedings is founded on the events which took place on 23 December 1949,

during the course of which idols were placed inside the mosque by a crowd of

Hindus. The intent of doing so was to destroy, damage and defile the mosque.

Moreover, according to the plaintiffs, this act of entry into the mosque and the

placement of idols amounted to a desecration of the mosque. This clearly

emerges from the averments in paragraph 11 of the plaint: The conduct of Hindus amounted to an offence punishable
 under Sections 147 , 295 and 448 of the Indian Penal Code.‖

Linked to the above averment is the statement in paragraph 23 which reads thus: The State government and its officials defendants 6 to 8 failed
 in their duty to prosecute the offenders and safeguard the
 interests of the Muslims.‖

In the suit as it was originally filed, a declaration was sought to the effect that the

property identified by the letters A B C D in the map annexed to the plaint is a

public mosque known as Babri Masjid and the land adjoining it depicted by letters

E F G H is a public Muslim graveyard. Prayer (b) seeks a decree for the delivery

of possession of the mosque and graveyard, by removing of the idols and other

articles of worship placed by the Hindus, ―in case in the opinion of the Court

delivery of possession is deemed to be the proper remedy‖. Prayer (bb) is for a

command to the statutory receiver to handover the property described in

Schedule ‗A‘ by removing the unauthorised structures. Prayer (bb) was brought in

by way of an amendment on 25 May 1995. Written statements 613. The plea of limitation was specifically raised in several written statements,

among them in paragraphs 27 and 28 of the written statements of the first and

second defendants and paragraph 23 of the additional written statement. The 738 PART O

plea of limitation was also raised in paragraph 35 of the written statement, filed by

Nirmohi Akhara and Mahant Raghunath Das, defendant nos 3 and 4; in

paragraph 29 of the written statement of the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha,

defendant no 10; and in the written statements of several other Hindu parties.

The tenth defendant filed a written statement on 15 February 1990 and denied

paragraph 23 of the plaint. In the additional pleas raised in paragraphs 29 and 79,

a specific plea was raised that the suit is barred by limitation. Paragraph 79 of the

written statement reads thus: 614. The suit was presented and filed on 18 December 1961. 615. The first plaintiff of Suit 4 was impleaded as the ninth defendant to Suit 3

instituted by Nirmohi Akhara in pursuance of the order of the court dated 23

August 1989. A statement was made on behalf of the first plaintiff through

counsel that the written statements which were already filed on behalf of 739 PART O

defendant nos 1 to 5 in Suit 5 and defendant nos 6 to 8 in Suit 3 were being

adopted. Sunni Central Waqf Board was also impleaded as defendant no 10 in

Suit 1 pursuant to the order of the court dated 7 January 1987. In paragraph 22 of

the written statement filed by defendant nos 1 to 5 in Suit 1, it was specifically

stated that namaz had been offered until 16 December 1949. Similarly, in

paragraph 26 of the written statement filed on behalf of defendant nos 6 to 8 in

Suit 3 it was also stated that namaz had been continuously offered till 16

December 1949. Thus, for the purpose of the issue of limitation, it is necessary to

proceed on the basis that the last namaz was offered on 16 December 1949.

Before the High Court, it was urged by learned Counsel appearing on behalf of

defendant no 20 that: PART O

Findings of the High Court 616. Dealing with the provisions of Section 145, Justice Sudhir Agarwal held

that the proceeding is not of a judicial nature nor does the Magistrate deal with it

as if it were a suit for immovable property. The proceedings under Section 145

would neither result in extension of limitation nor is any exclusion provided for the

purpose of computing limitation. The appointment of a receiver by the magistrate

merely made the property custodia legis and is not a dispossession within the

meaning of Article 142 of the Limitation Act . The attachment of the property does

not either amount to the dispossession of the owner or a discontinuance of

possession. Adverting to the decision of this Court in Deokuer v Sheoprasad

Singh324 , the High Court noted the principle that following an order of attachment

under Section 145, the property is custodia legis; since it is not in the possession

of any private individual, there is no need to seek a relief for the restoration of

possession and a declaration of title would be sufficient. Relief of possession is

not required because no private defendant would be in a position to deliver

possession to the plaintiff and the Magistrate holds possession during the period

of attachment for the party who is ultimately found entitled to it upon adjudication. 617. Having set out the position in law, Justice Sudhir Agarwal held that the

plaint in Suit 4 has no averment that the plaintiffs were dispossessed of the

property which they had already possessed. On the contrary, the plea was that

by the placement of idols inside the mosque, there was an act of desecration

which interfered with the right of the plaintiffs to worship. Moreover, the relief 324 AIR 1966 SC 359 741 PART O

which the plaintiffs sought was not for the continuation of the right of worship but

a declaration of the status of the structure being a mosque. The learned judge

held that the pleadings did not bring the case under Article 142 since the plea in

paragraph 23 of the plaint was not sufficient to constitute a case of dispossession

or discontinuance of the possession of the plaintiffs over the property in dispute.

The placement of idols inside the mosque, it was held, did not constitute a

dispossession or discontinuance of possession since these concepts

contemplate a total deprivation of the person who was earlier in possession.

Obstruction or interference, it was held does not constitute dispossession or

discontinuance of possession. Justice Sudhir Agarwal noted that if the plaintiffs

had not set up the plea either that they were dispossessed or that their

possession was discontinued in categorical and clear terms, the court could not

provide the deficiency by reading something which was not present in the

pleadings. 618. Justice Sudhir Agarwal held that for the above reasons neither Article 47 nor Article 142 had any application. Dealing with the case under Article 120 , the

learned judge noted that the cause of action arose on 23 December 1949 and 29

December 1949. The suit was instituted beyond the period of limitation of six

years. Hence, whether the last namaz was held on 16 or 23 December 1949,

would be of no consequence. The date on which the last namaz was held would

have been of some significance if Article 120 was not to apply. In the absence of

the application of Articles 142 and 144 , it was only Article 120 which would be

attracted, and the suit was held to be barred by limitation. 742 PART O

On whether there was a continuing wrong, Justice Sudhir Agarwal held that if the

suit had been instituted for seeking relief against the obstruction of the right of

worship it would probably have attracted the principle of continuing wrong in Section 23 of the Limitation Act 1908, particularly in view of the decision of the

Privy Council in Sir Seth Hukum Chand v Maharaj Bahadur Singh325 . However,

the suit had not been instituted to seek an enforcement of the right of worship but

for obtaining a declaration of status about the nature of the building in dispute as

a mosque and for delivery of possession in the capacity of possessory title-

holders. Justice Sudhir Agarwal held that a distinction has to be made between a

continuing wrong and continuing effects of a wrong. The facts pleaded by the

plaintiffs indicated that they were ousted from the disputed premises on 22/23

December 1949 and the wrong was complete once they had been dispossessed

from the property. On this ground, the learned judge held that the principle of

continuing wrong was not attracted. Justice Sudhir Agarwal held that the ouster

of the plaintiffs was complete with the desecration of the mosque on 23

December 1949 and hence the suit for the purpose of limitation was governed by Article 120. The suit was held to be barred by limitation.

Justice D V Sharma held that the suit had been instituted for seeking a

declaration after the attachment by the Magistrate under Section 145. The suit

seeking a declaration was not governed by the principle of a continuing wrong

and in view of the decision of the Privy Council in Raja Rajgan Maharaja Jagatjit 325 (1933) 38 LW 306 (PC) 743 PART O

Singh v Raja Partab Bahadur Singh326, it was Article 120 that would apply.

Hence, the learned judge held that neither Article 142 nor Article 144 had any

application. The learned judge also held that though the suit had been instituted

in 1961, it was amended after 33 years (in 1995), to seek possession and to bring

it within the purview of Articles 142 and 144. On these grounds the suit was held

to be barred by limitation. Justice S U Khan held to the contrary and was of the view that Suit 4 was within

limitation. The learned judge indicated five reasons for holding that Suits 3, 4, and

5 were not barred by limitation which have already been adverted to earlier.

Thus, by a majority (Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice D V Sharma), the suit

was held to be barred by limitation; Justice S U Khan holding a contrary view on

this issue. Submissions of counsel 619. During the course of the arguments before this Court, Mr K Parasaran,

learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiffs in Suit 5, submitted

that Suit 4 would be governed by Article 120 of the Limitation Act alone and that

neither Articles 142 nor 144 would apply. This submission is sought to be

supported on the basis of the following propositions: AIR 1942 PC 47 744 PART O (ii) When a suit is filed for a declaration of title to property which is attached

 under Section 145, it is not necessary to seek further relief for the delivery

 of possession since the defendant is not in possession and is not in a

 position to deliver possession. The property under attachment being

 custodia legis, the receiver is bound to hand over possession to whoever is

 held to be entitled as a result of the civil adjudication; (iii) A prayer seeking possession was not necessary since the property was

 custodia legis since December 1949 and the prayer was introduced only to

 circumvent the period of limitation of six years imposed by Article 120; (iv) Statutes of limitation are statutes of repose; (v) The period of six years under Article 120 has to be computed from the date

 when the right to sue accrues and there is no right to sue unless there is

 an accrual of the right asserted in the suit and an infringement or a clear

 and unequivocal intention to infringe the right; (vi) The cause of action as pleaded in paragraph 23 of the plaint is stated to

 have arisen on 23 December 1949 when the Hindus unlawfully entered the

 mosque and desecrated it by placing idols inside, thus causing an

 interference in the offering of prayers by Muslims; (vii) The case of the plaintiffs is that the injury which was sustained was of a

 continuing nature and not the wrong, which was complete on the date of

 the desecration. The bar of limitation is sought to be overcome by alleging

 that the cause of action is renewed by virtue of a continuing wrong; (viii) In the present case, there can be no question of a continuing wrong since

 the property was custodia legis. Hence, even assuming (without admitting) 745 PART O

 that the placement of the idols under the central dome was a continuing

 wrong, it came to an end upon the attachment of the property; and (ix) The cause of action arose when the idols were placed in the inner

 courtyard. This arose even before the proceedings under Section 145 and

 hence, the fact that the Magistrate has not passed any final order would

 not lead to limitation ceasing to run. Analysis 620. Both the Limitation Act 1908 and its successor, the Limitation Act of 1963

are statutes of repose. Extensions or exceptions to limitation are stipulated in the

statute. These provisions include: (iii) Section 26 (acquisition of the right of easement in 20 years); and (iv) Section 27 (modification of 20 years for a reversioner of servient

 tenement). Article 47 621. Article 47 of the Limitation Act 1908 applies to a suit by a person bound by

an order ―respecting the possession of immoveable property‖ made under the Code of Criminal Procedure 1898 or the Mamlatdar‘s Court Act 1906 or by

anyone claiming under such person to recover the property in the order. The

period of limitation is three years and time begins to run from the date of the final 746 PART O

order in the case. In order for Article 47 to apply, the suit must meet the

description specified in the first column. In other words, Article 47 applies only in

a situation where a Magistrate has passed an order respecting the possession of

immoveable property. When no order regarding possession of immovable

property which is the subject matter of a proceeding under Section 145 has been

passed, the suit shall not be of the description specified in the first column. It is

only if the Magistrate has passed such an order that the suit would meet the

description specified, and in which event Article 47 would govern. However,

though Article 47 is not attracted, a person aggrieved by the order of attachment

may file a suit for declaration of his right. On the determination of the right by the

civil court, he would become entitled for possession and the Magistrate is duty

bound to hand over possession in accordance with the order of the civil court. In

the present case, absent any order respecting possession under Section 145, Article 47 on its plain terms has no application. Articles 120 , 142 , 144 622. The next limb of the submission on the basis of which the bar of limitation

has been urged, is that Suit 4 is governed by Article 120. Now Article 120 deals

with suits for which no period of limitation is provided elsewhere in the schedule. Article 120 is in the nature of a residuary provision. Hence, where a specific

article in the schedule applies, the residuary article can possibly have no

application and it is only when the suit does not fall within the description

specified in any other article that the residuary provision would govern. 747 PART O 623. The two competing articles which have been pressed-in-aid on behalf of

the plaintiffs are Article 142 and, in the alternate, Article 144. Article 142 covers a

suit for possession of immoveable property when the plaintiff has either been

dispossessed while in possession of the property or has discontinued the

possession. Dispossession postulates an act of an involuntarily nature while

discontinuance is more in the nature of a voluntary cessation of possession. In

the present case, the plaintiffs in Suit 4 have sought a declaration that the

property indicated by the letters A B C D is a public mosque and that the land

delineated by the letters E F G H is a Muslim graveyard. Beside this, the plaintiffs

seek a prayer for the delivery of possession, in case the court is of the opinion

that such relief is deemed to be the proper remedy. 624. The basis on which it has been urged that Suit 4 is not a suit for

possession is that this Court has held in Deokuer v Sheoprasad Singh327 that

where property is custodia legis, it is not necessary to make an independent

prayer for the delivery of possession. Hence it has been urged that since a

specific prayer for seeking possession was not necessary, prayer (b) is otiose

and the character of the suit must be adjudicated only with reference to prayer (a). The submission cannot be accepted. The decision of this Court in Deokuer lays

down that where property is custodia legis, it is sufficient to seek a declaration of

title. This is because the court receiver who is an officer of the court would hold

the property for the party who is found, upon adjudication, to be entitled to 327 AIR 1966 SC 359 748 PART O

possession. Since the receiver would be duty bound to hand over possession to

whoever is held by the court to be entitled to the property, a formal prayer for

seeking possession is not necessary. But what this submission misses is that a

suit seeking relief of possession has not been held to lack maintainability. A

declaration of title suffices because once property is custodia legis, possession

would necessarily follow the grant of the declaration upon the adjudication by the

court. The relief of possession is therefore implicit. To hold that a suit of this

nature where the property is custodia legis cannot possibly be held to be a suit

for possession is therefore a submission which has no valid basis. 625. The submission that Suit 4 is barred by limitation is founded on the

following hypotheses: The basic foundation on which the above submission is based is that the entirety

of the property comprised in the inner and outer courtyards was custodia legis

and was under the protective attachment of the receiver. However, as a matter of 749 PART O

fact on 18 December 1961 when the suit was instituted only the inner courtyard

had been attached in pursuance of the orders passed under Section 145. The

outer courtyard was placed under receivership only in 1982. In Suit 4, the

property which was the subject matter of the dispute was: 626. Suit 4 related to both areas which were attached under Section 145 and

areas which were clearly not the subject matter of attachment. Consequently, the

declaration which was sought in the suit was not merely in respect of the land

which fell within the purview of the order of attachment. Relief was sought in

terms of: 627. Reading the plaint, the grievance of the plaintiffs was that they were in

possession and had offered prayers till 23 December 1949. On 23 December

1949, it is alleged that the Hindus surreptitiously installed idols inside the mosque

as a result of which the mosque was desecrated. By pleading specifically that the

plaintiffs were in possession and had offered prayers until a particular date, the

sequitur is that after that date, the plaintiffs ceased to be in possession. This

being the position, it becomes evident that even before the property became

cutodia legis following the attachment under Section 145, the plaintiffs had been

ousted from possession. It was in this background, that in prayer (a), the plaintiffs

sought a declaration in regard to the character of the mosque as a public mosque

and in prayer (b) sought possession, in case it is necessary. Formulating a prayer

for relief in such terms is not unknown to the law of pleadings. Such was the case

for instance in C Natrajan v Ashim Bai328 where the reliefs were formulated in

the following terms: 628. Mr Parasaran has submitted that the suit is for a declaration under Section

42 of the Specific Relief Act 1877 as to the character of property and not to the

title to the property. Learned counsel submitted that prayer (a) as phrased is for a

declaration that the property comprised within letters A B C D in the map

annexed to the plaint is a public mosque. On this basis, it has been urged that

prayer (a) does not seek a declaration of title. There is no merit in the 752 PART O

submission. Prayer (a) seeks a declaration not only with respect to the disputed

structure of the mosque but also in regard to the land which was appurtenant to

it. This is also evident from paragraph 21B of the plaint as amended which dealt

with the consequence of the demolition of the mosque on 6 December 1992.

Paragraph 21B of the plaint contains a plea that notwithstanding the demolition of

the structure, the land continues to retain its character as a mosque. 629. The cause of action as set up by the plaintiffs was that the Muslims were in

peaceful possession of the mosque and used to recite prayer in it till 23

December 1949 when a crowd of Hindus with an intent to destroy, damage or

defile the mosque entered it and desecrated the mosque by placing idols inside.

The expression ―till 23 December 1949‖ in paragraph 11 of the plaint qualifies not

merely the offering of prayers in the mosque but the fact of possession as well.

Hence, a reading of paragraph 11 of the plaint indicates that the case of the

plaintiffs was that the act of entering upon the mosque on 23 December 1949 and

placing idols inside it was intended to destroy, damage and defile the character of

the mosque and that by doing so the mosque stood desecrated. Moreover, it is in

that context that the pleading in paragraph 23 is that the cause of action arose on

23 December 1949 when the mosque was desecrated and interference in the

worship by the Muslims was caused. The evidence on the record indicates that

after the idols were introduced into the mosque on 23 December 1949, worship of

the idols was conducted by the priests within the precincts of the mosque. Hence,

the plea in the paragraph 11 is not just one of obstruction of the Muslims in 753 PART O

offering namaz in the mosque after 23 December 1949, but a dispossession with

effect from that date. 630. The inner structure was attached by a preliminary order under Section 145

on 29 December 1949 and the receiver assumed charge on 5 January 1950.

Reading the pleadings of the plaintiffs as a whole, it is evident that what has been

asserted in paragraphs 11 and 23 is not merely an obstruction which was caused

to the worship within the precincts of the mosque by the Muslims by the

placement of the idols. The case of the Muslims was that the mosque was

desecrated and defiled by the installation of the idols. Moreover, the very fact that

worship was offered exclusively by the Hindus within the precincts of the mosque

after the placement of the idols indicates a loss of possession by the Muslims.

An important aspect of the matter is that the events which took place on 22/23

December 1949 led to the ouster of the plaintiffs from the mosque. Hence, to

read the plaint as a plaint which merely spoke of the obstruction in performing

worship and not as a complaint against the ouster of the Muslims would be

incorrect. In fact, Justice Sudhir Agarwal has in the course of his discussion

noted that there was an ouster of the Muslims on 23 December 1949. In

paragraph 2439, Justice Sudhir Agarwal observed thus: 631. This being the position, the High Court was in error in applying the

provisions of Article 120. The suit in essence and substance was governed by Article 142. Though, the last namaz was held on 16 December 1949, the ouster

of possession did not take place on that day. The next Friday namaz would have

been held on 23 December 1949 and the act of ouster took place on that date

and when the mosque was desecrated. The suit which was filed on 18 December

1961 was within a period of 12 years from 23 December 1949 and hence within

limitation. The view, which has been taken by the majority of the High Court

holding that Suit 4 is barred by limitation, is hence incorrect. Suit 4 was filed

within limitation. Alternatively, even if it is held that the plaintiffs were not in exclusive or settled

possession of the inner courtyard, the suit would fall within the residuary

Article144 in which event also, the suit would be within limitation. 755 PART O

O.5 Applicable legal regime and Justice, Equity and Good Conscience 632. The facts of the present case traverse three centuries. During the oral

arguments, the attention of this Court was drawn further back in time to written

accounts recording the life of Emperor Babur in the sixteenth and seventeenth

century. Taking the court beyond the pages of history, archaeological evidence

has been relied upon before the court. In seeking to establish their rights over the

disputed land, the parties have turned back the clock of human history, to

establish a point of genesis, where one party‘s claims over the disputed property

were uncontested: to establish the first right and the first wrong. This court is

called on to determine the legal consequences arising out of a thousand years of

prayer, contest, construction and destruction at the disputed site. 633. During this period, the disputed property has fallen within the territory of

various rulers and legal regimes. The question of which party, king or religion had

a first claim to the disputed site is one of significant historical interest. But this

court must determine what are the legal consequences arising from such an

enquiry. Human history is testament to the rise and fall of rulers and regimes. The

law cannot be used as a device to reach back in time and provide a legal remedy

to every person who disagrees with the course which history has taken. The

courts of today cannot take cognisance of historical rights and wrongs unless it is

shown that their legal consequences are enforceable in the present. Thus, before

this Court embarks on a lengthy historical enquiry, it is important to consider the

extent to which acts done and rights accrued under previous legal regimes have

legal consequences today under our present laws. 756 PART O 634. The facts pertaining to the present case fall within four distinct legal

regimes: (i) The kingdoms prior to 1525 during which the ―ancient underlying

structure‖ dating back to the twelfth century is stated to have been constructed; (ii) The Mughal rule between 1525 and 1856 during which the mosque was

constructed at the disputed site; (iii) The period between 1856 and 1947 during

which the disputed property came under colonial rule; and (iv) The period after

1947 until the present day in independent India. 635. Mr Vaidyanathan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

plaintiffs in Suit 5, placed great emphasis on the existence of an ancient Hindu

structure underneath the disputed property. Counsel contended that the ruins of

this structure were used in the construction of the mosque. Mr H S Jain, learned

counsel appearing on behalf of the Hindu MahaSabha urged that during Babur‘s

invasion of India, several temples were destroyed, including the temple

constructed by Vikramaditya at Ayodhya. He contended that during the Mughal

period, the territory now known as ‗India‘ was under ‗foreign‘ occupation - Hindus

were not permitted to exercise their religious rights and, upon the adoption of the

Constitution of India, the wrongs of the Mughals are liable to be rectified. To

appreciate these arguments, it is necessary to understand the extent to which our

law recognises the legal consequences of acts done and rights accrued under

previous legal regimes. 757 PART O

Acts of State and changes in sovereignty 636. The principles determining the extent to which our courts can enforce the

legal consequences of actions and rights from previous legal regimes has been laid down by the Privy Council and adopted by this Court after Independence. In

Secretary of State Council in India v Kamachee Boye Sahaba,329 the Rajah of

Tanjore died on 29 October 1855 without a legal heir, causing the East India

Company to declare that the Raj had lapsed to the colonial government. A letter

was sent by the colonial government, as the ‗new sovereign of Tanjore‘,

requesting a list of the private and public property held by the former ruler in

order to decide any claims made against this property. When no response was

received, a company official, ―taking advantage‖ of the presence of the 25th

Regiment of Infantry, took possession of the property of the Raja, placed it under

seal and stationed sentries to guard the property. A suit was brought before the

Supreme Court of Madras by the eldest widow of the erstwhile Raja with respect

to the private property of the former ruler. It was contended that upon the lapse of

the Raj, it was only the public property of the Raja that was acquired by the new

ruler while the private property of the Raja was to be distributed in accordance

with the Hindu law of succession. The respondents contended that the seizure of

the Raja‘s property was an ―act of State‖ on behalf of the colonial government as

the new sovereign. The lapse of the Raj and the subsequent seizure involved

only the Raja and the colonial government - two sovereign powers, and 329 (1857-60) 7 Moo IA (476) 758 PART O

consequently, the court had no jurisdiction to entertain the matter. Accepting this

contention, Lord Kingsdown, speaking for the Privy Council held: 637. The action of the colonial government in seizing the Raja‘s property was

an action between two sovereign actors - the colonial government and the State

of Tanjore embodied by the Raja. The suit was instituted before the Supreme

Court of Madras, a court of the colonial government drawing on the colonial

government‘s sovereignty. The Privy Council held that the actions of the colonial

government vis-à-vis another sovereign entity (the Raja of Tanjore) were acts of

State and the municipal courts could not entertain matters questioning the legality 759 PART O

of those acts unless the colonial government itself recognised that the matter was

justiciable. The Privy Council held that there was no evidence to support the

claim that the colonial government recognised that legal redress was to be given

to claimants of the Raja‘s property. Absent a recognition by the colonial

government that the consequences of the act of State were legally enforceable in

municipal law, municipal courts could not entertain suits with respect to the act of

State. 638. In 1899, this principle was followed by the Privy Council in its decision in

Thomas and James Cook v Sir James Sprigg.330 The respondents in appeal

had challenged certain agreements made by a Native Chief of Pondoland

granting concessionary rights over lands and forests to the appellants, as

delegates of the British Sovereign. The respondents contended that the

agreements were contrary to the laws of Pondoland at the time. The Privy

Council held the grant of lands and rights to the British Sovereign to be an act of

State between the ―Paramount Chief of the Pondos‖ and the British Sovereign

and could not be challenged before a municipal court on the grounds of violating

Pondo law. Lord Halsbury, speaking for the Privy Council, held: 639. The common law principle which the Privy Council adopted was that

municipal courts cannot enforce the law applicable between two sovereign states.

The Privy Council clarified that irrespective of what international law had to say

on whether the new sovereign was subrogated into the shoes of the old

sovereign with respect to the legal obligations of the latter, a municipal court

cannot enforce such legal obligations in the absence of express recognition of the

legal obligations by the new sovereign. Where there is a change of sovereignty

from a former sovereign to a new sovereign, the municipal courts of the new

sovereign will not enforce the legal rights of parties existing under the former

sovereign absent an express recognition by the new sovereign of such legal

rights. 640. The applicability of the above principles to the question of proprietary rights

existing under a former regime was discussed in a 1915 decision of the Privy

Council in Secretary of State of India in Council v Bai Rajbai331. The

respondent in appeal, being part of a group called Kasbatis, had been given a

grant to collect rent from certain villages by the Gaekwar rulers of Ahmedabad. In

1817, the district of Ahmedabad was ceded by the Gaekwars to the British 331 ILR (1915) 39 Bom 625 761 PART O

Government. However, the settlement of the territories ceded was not practically

implemented until 1822-23. When the territory was ceded, the respondents were

in possession of seventeen villages, but refused to pay the requisite tax to the

colonial Bombay government on the ground of their grant by the former ruler. A

settlement proposed by a Mr Williamson was also rejected by the respondent and

the Bombay government eventually executed a series of leases granting the

Kasbatis the villages ―at the pleasure of the government‖. The respondent filed a

suit claiming that upon the expiry of the leases, she was legally entitled to be

granted a new lease. Lord Atkinson, speaking for the Privy Council, observed: 641. The cession of the territory of Ahmedabad by the Gaekwars to the colonial

government was an act of State between two sovereigns. Upon the cession of

the territory, the rights of the citizens within the territory of their new sovereign,

and consequently in the municipal courts of the new sovereign, were only those

expressly recognised by the new sovereign. Unless the new sovereign

recognised the rights of the citizens which existed in the old regime, the municipal

courts of the new sovereign could not enforce those ancient rights. This includes

the right to property of the citizens within the territory. Whether or not the new

sovereign should recognise the property rights of citizens is a contention to be

urged between the two sovereigns at a supra-national plane and a municipal

court would not entertain such contentions. The recognition of property rights

previously recognised in the old regime by the new sovereign need not be explicit

and may be implied through the conduct of the new sovereign and established

through circumstantial evidence. However, the burden of proving the existence of

the right in the previous regime and the recognition of the right by the new

sovereign rested on the party claiming such a right. 642. The principles enunciated by Lord Atkinson have been adopted by this

Court after Independence. A significant number of disputes arose out of the rights

granted to individuals by former princely rulers prior to the cession of their 763 PART O

territories to the Republic of India. This Court was called upon to determine

whether such rights were enforceable after the change of sovereignty from the

princely rulers to the Republic of India. 643. In Promod Chandra Deb v State of Orissa332 a batch of writ petitions

were heard by a Constitution Bench of this Court. The facts of the petitions were

largely analogous to each other: the petitioners had received certain cash grants,

or Khor Posh grants, from princely rulers prior to these rulers ceding their

territories to the Republic of India (then the Dominion of India). A question arose

as to whether the State of Orissa, as a delegate of the Central Government, was

required to enforce the old laws of the princely states including the providing of

the Khor Posh grants. Referring to the Privy Council decisions discussed above,

Chief Justice B P Sinha speaking for the Constitution Bench laid down certain

principles applicable when the municipal courts of a new sovereign must enforce

rights accruing to parties from the legal regime of a previous sovereign: 644. The Constitution Bench accepted the legal principles laid down by the

Privy Council in determining the method in which the legal consequences of acts

of a previous legal regime are recognised. Crucially, it does not matter that the

acts pertain to public or private rights. Municipal courts will only recognise those

rights and liabilities which have been recognised by the new sovereign either

expressly or impliedly through conduct established by evidence. The municipal

courts of the new sovereign can embark upon an inquiry as to whether the new

sovereign has expressly or impliedly recognised the rights and liabilities existing

under a former regime. However, the burden to establish the existence and

recognition of such rights and liabilities remains on the party claiming them. 765 PART O 645. The principles laid down in Promod Chandra Deb were affirmed by a

seven-judge Bench of this Court in State of Gujarat v Vora Fiddali Badruddin

Mithibarwala .333 The seven-judge Bench also expressly rejected the contention

that grants given by a former sovereign are merely voidable until expressly

revoked by the new sovereign. The court held that such grants are not

enforceable by the municipal court of the new sovereign unless expressly or

impliedly recognised by the new sovereign. These principles have also been

affirmed by subsequent benches of this Court in Pema Chibar v Union of

India334 Union of India v Sudhansu Mazumdar335. 646. The evidence and arguments submitted before this Court have canvassed

four distinct legal regimes. The legal consequences of actions taken, proprietary

rights perfected, or injuries suffered in previous legal regimes can only be

enforced by this Court if they received implied or express recognition by

subsequent sovereigns. Absent such recognition, the change of sovereignty is an

act of State and this Court cannot compel a subsequent sovereign to recognise

and remedy historical wrongs. Ancient rights claimed by the parties 647. The nature of the ancient underlying structure beneath the disputed

property dating back to the twelfth century has been the subject matter of great

controversy in the present proceedings. Mr Vaidyanathan contended that the

structure represented a Hindu temple. It was urged that the existence of an 333 (1964) 6 SCR 461 334 (1966) 1 SCR 357 335 (1971) 3 SCC 265 766 PART O

ancient Hindu temple below the disputed property was evidence that title to the

disputed land vested in the plaintiff deities in Suit 5. It was further urged that as

the land of a deity is inalienable, the title of the plaintiff deities from the twelfth

century continues to be legally enforceable today. For this submission to be

accepted, it would need to be demonstrated that every subsequent sovereign to

the territory within which the disputed land falls either expressly or impliedly

recognised the title of the plaintiff deities in Suit 5. The burden to establish this

would rest firmly on the plaintiffs in Suit 5. 648. No argument other than a bare reliance on the ASI report was put forth. No

evidence was led by the plaintiffs in Suit 5 to support the contention that even if

the underlying structure was believed to be a temple, the rights that flow from it

were recognised by subsequent sovereigns. The mere existence of a structure

underneath the disputed property cannot lead to a legally enforceable claim to

title today. Subsequent to the construction of the ancient structure in the twelfth

century, there exists an intervening period of four hundred years prior to the

construction of the mosque. No evidence has been led with respect to the

continued existence of the legal regime or any change in legal regime. It is

admitted by all parties that at some point during the reign of the Mughal empire, a

mosque was constructed at the disputed site. Even if this Court was to assume

that the underlying structure was in fact a Hindu temple which vested title to the

disputed site in the plaintiff deities, no evidence has been led by the plaintiffs in

Suit 5 to establish that upon the change in legal regime to the Mughal sovereign,

such rights were recognised. 767 PART O 649. The Mughal conquest of the territories was a supra-national act between

two sovereigns subsequent to which, absent the recognition by the new

sovereign of pre-existing rights, any claim to the disputed property could not have

been enforced by virtue of the change in sovereignty. This Court cannot entertain

or enforce rights to the disputed property based solely on the existence of an

underlying temple dating to the twelfth century. 650. The next change in legal regime occurred on 13 February 1856 with the

annexation of Oudh by the East India Company, which later became the colonial

government of the British Sovereign. The events which took place between 1856

and Indian Independence and beyond will be considered in great detail at various

parts of this judgement and we need not advert to it at this juncture. However,

certain factual aspects with respect to recognition of rights by the British

sovereign may be noted. Upon the annexation of Oudh by the British sovereign,

no actions were taken by the sovereign to exclude either the Hindu devotees of

Lord Ram from worship nor the resident Muslims offering namaz at the disputed

property. On 15 March 1858, by the proclamation of Lord Canning, all property,

excluding a select few estates, were confiscated by the British sovereign and the

disputed property was designated as Nazul land (i.e. land confiscated and

vesting in the government). However, the conduct of the British government was

to respect the practices and prayer of both religious communities at the disputed

site. The construction of the railing in 1858 to separate and maintain law and

order between the two communities is premised on the worship of both religious

communities at the disputed property. If either community was not present at the 768 PART O

disputed site, no question of needing to separate the two communities could have

ever arisen. The Hindus however maintained immediate and continued contest

over their exclusion from the inner courtyard. In 1877, another door was opened

on the northern side of the outer courtyard by the British Government, which was

given to the Hindus to control and manage. 651. With respect to the change of legal regime between the British sovereign

and the Republic of India, there exists a line of continuity. Article 372 of the

Constitution embodies the legal continuity between the British sovereign and

independent India. Article 372(1) states: 652. This Court cannot entertain claims that stem from the actions of the

Mughal rulers against Hindu places of worship in a court of law today. For any

person who seeks solace or recourse against the actions of any number of

ancient rulers, the law is not the answer. Our history is replete with actions that

have been judged to be morally incorrect and even today are liable to trigger

vociferous ideological debate. However, the adoption of the Constitution marks a

watershed moment where we, the people of India, departed from the

determination of rights and liabilities on the basis of our ideology, our religion, the

colour of our skin, or the century when our ancestors arrived at these lands, and

submitted to the rule of law. Under our rule of law, this court can adjudicate upon

private property claims that were expressly or impliedly recognised by the British

sovereign and subsequently not interfered with upon Indian independence. With

respect to the disputed property, it is evident that the British Sovereign

recognised and permitted the existence of both Hindu and Muslim communities at

the disputed property upon the annexation of Oudh in 1856. This culminated with 770 PART O

the construction of the railing in order to maintain law and order between the two

communities. The acts of the parties subsequent to the annexation of Oudh in

1856 form the continued basis of the legal rights of the parties in the present suits

and it is these acts that this Court must evaluate to decide the present dispute.

Justice, Equity and Good Conscience 653. Dr Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

plaintiffs in Suit 4 contended that the substantive content of the law applicable to

the present case is ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘. Dr Dhavan contended

that while certain facets of the present dispute fall within a statutory framework,

there are significant gaps in the positive law which must be filled in by applying

the principles of justice, equity and good conscience. 654. The import of this contention is that the Court must be mindful of the

genesis of the present dispute that spans over four distinct legal regimes – that of

Vikramaditya, the Mughals, the British and now, Independent India. In assessing

the submissions of the parties and arriving at the eventual conclusion, the needs

of justice require specific attention to the peculiarities of the case. The case

canvasses the rule of law, religion and law and conquest, besides a myriad of

conflicting interests. These cannot always be comprehended within the available

statutory framework applicable to the present facts. This makes the role of the

court even more sensitive as it must craft a relief that accords with justice, equity

and good conscience. 771 PART O 655. Any discussion on the concept of ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘

begs a few preliminary questions: (i) How did the concept originate?; (ii) What

does it entail?; and (iii) What was the Indian experience with the concept? In an

essay titled ―Justice, Equity and Good Conscience‖, Duncan Derrett notes the

difficulties that plague a discussion of a concept whose contours are vague: 656. It is a common misconception that the term ‗justice, equity and good

conscience‘ has its origins in English law. Sir George Rankin succinctly stated

that the origins of ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘ did not point to English

law.337 Instead, Romano-canonical learning, which was common to the European

continent and appeared later in English minds of the sixteenth century, forms the 336 Dr J Duncan M Derrett, Justice Equity and Good Conscience in Changing Law in Developing Countries (JND
Anderson ed.) at page 120 337 Sir George Rankin, The Personal Law in British India, Sir George Birdwood Memorial Lecture on 21 February,
1941. 772 PART O

genesis of the concept. In his seminal work ―Ethics‖338, Aristotle considers the

relations between equity and justice. Although equity is not identical to strict

justice, it is nevertheless a kind of justice. To him, where the written statute is

unequipped to address the particular circumstances of the case and point to a

truly just outcome, aequitas (i.e. equity or fairness) steps in. Adherence to the

written law may lead to an unjust outcome. In this view, where certain factors

place the facts of a case on a different pedestal, such as public policy, it would be

unjust to impose the strict legal outcome of generally expressed laws.

Consequently, a departure from the written law is (according to Artistotle)

permissible. This departure served the specific purpose of elevating certain

considerations that inform a factual matrix in order to arrive at a just and

equitable conclusion. This notion was an inspiration for and foundation of the

Western legal tradition of equity.339 657. Derrett documents that the above notion influenced Romanic propositions

in two ways: (i) aequitas served as an ally in the interpretation of statute law to

correct, modify and if necessary, amend it; and (ii) to make good the deficiencies

of the written or otherwise ascertainable law. To this end, the role of equity was

formulated as follows: 658. The correlation between law and justice was the defining factor– in one

sense, equity modifies the applicable law or ensures its suitability to address the

particular circumstances before a court to produce justice. The modification of

general rules to the circumstances of the case is guided by equity, not in

derogation or negation of positive law, but in addition to it. It supplements positive

law but does not supplant it. In a second sense however, where positive law is

silent as to the applicable legal principles, equity assumes a primary role as the

source of law itself. Equity steps in to fill the gaps that exist in positive law. Thus,

where no positive law is discernible, courts turn to equity as a source of the

applicable law. In addition to these, Derrett notes that there is a third sense in

which equity or aequitas assumed importance – where established political

authority is taken away or is in doubt and the formal sources of law are in doubt,

the nature of judicial office requires a decision in accordance with ex bono et

aequo. This was evidenced in decisions concerning widows and orphans and in

the realm of mercantile law. 340 Dr J Duncan M Derrett, Justice Equity and Good Conscience in Changing Law in Developing Countries (JND
Anderson ed.) at page 120 774 PART O 659. In all three senses noted above, equity offered judges the discretion to

marry general principles of law and the particular circumstances before them to

arrive at a just decision. However, this discretion was not unbridled. Derrett rightly

notes: 660. The application of ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘ to India

commenced with colonial rule in Bombay. As Bombay assumed prominence as a 341 Dr J Duncan M Derrett, Justice Equity and Good Conscience in Changing Law in Developing Countries (JND
Anderson ed.) at page 123 775 PART O

commercial centre, there arose a need for a system of mercantile law to avoid the

inadequacies of the common law in its application in India as well as in the

English Admiralty courts. Company judges appointed in 1669 were hence

required to adjudicate in accordance to good conscience. 342 Eventually, the Royal

Charters of (i) 9 August, 1683 set up the mercantile and admiralty courts at

Bombay; and (ii) 30 December, 1687 set up the Municipality and Mayor‘s Court at

Madras. The Court of Judicature at Bombay was required to adjudicate

‗according to the rules of equity and good conscience, and according to the laws

and customs of merchants.‘ The Mayor‘s Court at Madras was to be guided

according to equity and good conscience. 661. On 5 July, 1781 Governor General Warren Hastings passed the

Regulations for the Administration of Justice in the Court of Dewanee Adaulat of

the provinces of Bengal, Bihar and Orissa. Regulation 60 of the said regulations

stated: 662. Until the 1850s, judges turned to Hindu personal law and Muslim personal

law to decided matters of faith and religion. Where the exact provisions were not 343 See also Article 27 of the Plan of 1772 which reads: ―That in all suits regarding inheritance, marriage and
caste and other religious usages and institutions, the laws of the Koran with respect to Mahomedans and those of
the Shaster with respect to Gentoos shall be invariably adhered to. On all such occasions the Molavies shall
respectively attend to expound the law and they shall sign the report and assist in passing the decree.‖ See also Section 15 of Regulation IV of the Cornwalliis Code of 1793. 777 PART O

certain, judges required the reassurance that their decisions were in consonance

with the needs of justice in every case. For this, they turned to ‗justice, equity and

good conscience‘. The conflation between the concept and English law 663. Alongside the introduction of ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘ in the

Indian legal system, another parallel development gradually took place - despite

the broad underpinnings of the term which allowed reference by analogy to varied

systems of law, over time, there arose a presumption that the term ‗justice, equity

and good conscience‘ was synonymous with English law. The expansion in the

powers of the East India Company was accompanied with a vesting in the

Company of the power of administration of justice. MC Setalvad writes: 664. With an increase in the activities of the East India Company, judges and

barristers trained in English law moulded the Indian judicial system. This led to,

an increased reference to English law both in arguments before courts as well as

in the judgments of the Courts in British India. The distinguished American

scholar Marc Galanter has documented the conflation of the term with English

law: 665. The applicable law was stated to be the parties‘ personal law and the

colonial government initially relied on the testimonies of pandits and maulvis to

translate religious texts which would be used to adjudicate. Eventually, this

system was abolished and increased reliance was placed on English translations

of the relevant religious texts. Ultimately, the colonial government sought to fill

any remaining lacunae with English law.346 Another impetus was the setting up of 345 Marc Galanter, Law and Society in Modern India (1997), at pages 221,222. 346 Sir George Rankin, the Personal Law in British India, Sir George Birdwood Memorial Lecture on 21 February,
1941– ―Under the scheme of 1772 the English judges in the civil courts were to get their law form the pandits and
moulavies. These ―law officers‖ lasted as an institution from 1772 till 1864, then they were abolished, not before
their usefulness had come to an end. There was no system of training them, as Sir Thomas Strange was to point
out (1825); their qualifications were not always great, nor temptation always absent. It was imperative that the
texts should be made available to the judges themselves, and the labours of Jones, Henry Colebrooke, the 779 PART O

the Privy Council in 1833 as the final court of appeal from India. These together

resulted in the conflation between ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘ and

English law. However, in truth, the term ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘

authorises a broad-ranging reference to analogous systems of law to source legal

principles that can be applied to the specific case before the court and ensure a

just outcome. 666. The correct legal position was noted by Chief Justice Barnes Peacock in

Degunbaree Dabee v Eshan Chunder Sein347 where it was held: 667. In Radha Kishen v Raj Kaur349, a man who bore children from a woman

outside his caste was treated to be an outcaste. Upon his death, the woman held

his property, the possession of which she handed to their children upon her

death. The brothers of the man sued for the recovery of his property contending

that the woman and their illegitimate children had no right to the property. The

court, without any reference to English law, held that the property was self-

acquired and that justice, equity and good conscience required that the suit be

dismissed. Chief Justice Edgar and Justice Knox writing together for the

Allahabad High Court held: 349 668. In Rajah Kishendatt Ram v Rajah Mumtaz Ali Khan350 , the Privy Council

dealt with the rights of redemption of a mortgagor whose property had received

accretions through certain mergers by the mortgagee in possession. Justice JW

Colville spoke thus: 669. The position that the term ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘ indicates

English law is thus unsupported. The formula ―was a device to escape from

English law, not to call it in‖.351 It is true that its application in India heralded the

diffusion of English Law into the Indian legal system by virtue of globalisation,

acculturation and common epistemic communities. The formula authorised 350 (1878-79) 6 IA 145 351 Dr J Duncan M Derrett, Justice Equity and Good Conscience In Changing Law in Developing Countries (JND
Anderson ed.) 782 PART O

reference by analogy to systems of law across national frontiers. Though the

Roman origins of the term stand for a broader application of the term even where

there is an express provision that governs the case, the development of the term

as it evolved in India indicates that it is only where the positive law and customary

law was silent or led to perverse or absurd outcomes, that the principles of

justice, equity and good conscience were applied.

Justice, Equity and Good Conscience today 670. With the development of statutory law and judicial precedent, including the

progressive codification of customs in the Hindu Code and in the Shariat Act

1937, the need to place reliance on justice, equity and good conscience gradually

reduced. There is (at least in theory) a reduced scope for the application of

justice, equity and good conscience when doctrinal positions established under a

statute cover factual situations or where the principles underlying the system of

personal law in question can be definitively ascertained. But even then, it would

do disservice to judicial craft to adopt a theory which excludes the application of

justice, equity and good conscience to areas of law governed by statute. For the

law develops interstitially, as judges work themselves in tandem with statute law

to arrive at just outcomes. Where the rights of the parties are not governed by a

particular personal law, or where the personal law is silent or incapable of being

ascertained by a court, where a code has a lacuna, or where the source of law

fails or requires to be supplemented, justice, equity and good conscience may

properly be referred to. 783 PART O 671. Post-independence, Indian Courts have utilised the concept less frequently

but adopted a broader view of the term ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘.

Two cases of this Court are instructive. In Namdeo Lokman Lodhi v

Narmadabai352 , it was argued that the amendment made in 1929 to Section

111(g) of the Transfer of Property Act requiring a written notice by the lessor for

the determination of a lease embodies a principle of justice, equity and good

conscience. Justice Mehr Chand Mahajan (as he then was), writing for a two

judge Bench of this Court held: section (g) of Section 111 in regard to notice was not based
 upon any principle of justice, equity and good conscience. 18. …In England it is not necessary in case of non-payment of
 rent for a landlord to give notice before a forfeiture results. It
 cannot, therefore, be said that what has been enacted in sub-
 section (g) of Section 111 is a matter which even today in
 English law is considered as a matter of justice, equity and
 good conscience.‖

This Court held that the requirement of a notice being issued by the lessor upon

the non-payment of dues was one of procedure, and absent a statutory mandate,

the same could not be introduced under the guise of ‗justice, equity and good

conscience.‘ It appeared at a first glance that the Bench conflated justice, equity

and good conscience with the position in English law. This is not the correct

position. The view expressed in this case was reinterpreted by this Court in 352 1953 SCR 1009 784 PART O

Murarilal v Dev Karan353 which arose out of a redemption suit filed by the

respondent against the appellant. The respondent had contended that though the

period to repay the loan taken by him against a mortgage of certain properties

had elapsed, the right to redeem continued to vest in him. This was resisted by

the appellant who contended that upon the expiry of the repayment period

stipulated, the appellant became the absolute owner of the mortgaged property.

Though Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act embodied the equity principle

of redemption, it was not applicable in Alwar where the dispute arose. A

Constitution Bench of this Court held that the mortgage deed contained a

provision which amounted to a clog on the equity of redemption. Chief Justice PB

Gajendragadkar, speaking for the Bench held: … 16. … Even so, we think it would be reasonable to assume
 that civil courts established in the State of Alwar were like
 civil courts all over the country, required to administer
 justice and equity where there was no specific statutory
 provision to deal with the question raised before them.
 …. In the absence of any material on the record on the point,
 we are reluctant to accept Mr Sarjoo Prasad's argument that
 the doctrine of equity and justice should be treated as
 irrelevant in dealing with the present dispute. … 20. Thus it is clear that the equitable principle of justice, equity
 and good conscience has been consistently applied by civil
 courts in dealing with mortgages in a substantial part of
 Rajasthan and that lends support to the contention of the
 respondent that it was recognised even in Alwar that if a
 mortgage deed contains a stipulation which unreasonably
 restrains or restricts the mortgagor‘s equity of redemption
 courts were empowered to ignore that stipulation and enforce
 the mortgagor's right to redeem, subject, of course, to the
 general law of limitation prescribed in that behalf. We are,
 therefore, satisfied that no case has been made out by the
 appellant to justify our interference with the conclusion of the
 Rajasthan High Court that the relevant stipulation on which
 the appellant relies ought to be enforced even though it
 creates a clog on the equity of redemption.‖ 672. The Court also cited instances of decisions of the High Courts which had

held that Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act embodied the just and

equitable principle. In this view, the Bench took a broader view of the principles

embodied by justice, equity and good conscience. The Court held that the view of

this Court in Namdeo is consistent with and similar to the analogous situation of

unreasonable and oppressive contractual terms and in that sense, justice, equity

and good conscience was analogous to English law only where English law itself 786 PART O

was in conformity with the principles supported by justice, equity and good

conscience. 673. The common underlying thread is that justice, good conscience and equity

plays a supplementary role in enabling courts to mould the relief to suit the

circumstances that present themselves before courts with the principle purpose

of ensuring a just outcome. Where the existing statutory framework is inadequate

for courts to adjudicate upon the dispute before them, or no settled judicial

doctrine or custom can be availed of, courts may legitimately take recourse to the

principles of justice, equity and good conscience to effectively and fairly dispose

of the case. A court cannot abdicate its responsibility to decide a dispute over

legal rights merely because the facts of a case do not readily submit themselves

to the application of the letter of the existing law. Courts in India have long

availed of the principles of justice, good conscience and equity to supplement the

incompleteness or inapplicability of the letter of the law with the ground realities

of legal disputes to do justice between the parties. Equity, as an essential

component of justice, formed the final step in the just adjudication of disputes.

After taking recourse to legal principles from varied legal systems, scholarly

written work on the subject, and the experience of the Bar and Bench, if no

decisive or just outcome could be reached, a judge may apply the principles of

equity between the parties to ensure that justice is done. This has often found

form in the power of the court to craft reliefs that are both legally sustainable and

just. 787 PART O

Equity and Article 142 674. The concept of ‗justice, equity and good conscience‘ as a tool to ensure a

just outcome also finds expression in Article 142 of the Constitution which reads: It is in these situations, that courts are empowered to ensure a just outcome by

passing an order necessary to ensure complete justice between the parties. 675. In Union Carbide Corporation v Union of India,354 this Court speaking

through Chief Justice Ranganath Misra circumscribed the power under Article

142 in the following manner: PART O

model with principles grounded in equitable standards. The power under Article

142 however is not limitless. It authorises the court to pass orders to secure

complete justice in the case before it. Article 142 embodies both the notion of

justice, equity and good conscience as well as a supplementary power to the

court to effect complete justice. O.6 Grants and recognition 677. The Sunni Central Waqf Board has set up the case that Babri Masjid was

built by or at the behest of Babur in 1528 and was dedicated as a place for

Muslims to offer prayer. The claim is that since the date of its construction until

the mosque was attached in December 1949, Muslims offered prayers

continuously in the mosque. Expenses for the upkeep and maintenance of the

mosque were stated to have been realised in the form of a cash grant which was

paid by the royal treasury during the rule of Babur which was continued under

colonial rule by the British. 678. The significant aspect of the case which has been pleaded in Suit 4 is the

construction of the mosque in 1528 A.D. and its use by Muslims for the purpose

of offering prayer thereafter. But, a crucial aspect of the evidentiary record is the

absence of any evidence to indicate that the mosque was, after its construction,

used for offering namaz until 1856-7. Justice Sudhir Agarwal noticed this feature

of the case bearing on the lack of evidence of the use of the mosque for the

purpose of worship until the riots of 1856-7. The learned Judge also noted the

submission of Mr Jilani for the Sunni Central Waqf Board in the following extracts: 791 679. According to the Sunni Central Waqf Board, the colonial government

continued grants for the upkeep and maintenance of the mosque originally given

during the time of Babur. In this regard, the Sunni Central Waqf Board has in the

course of its written submissions formulated its reliance on the documentary

record thus: 680. In 1864, the British Government converted the cash nankar into a grant of

revenue-free land situated in the Villages of Sholapur and Bahoranpur in the

vicinity of Ayodhya. A certificate of grant was executed in favour of Rajjab Ali and

Mohd Asghar, bearing the seal of the Chief Commissioner. It reads: Be that as it may, the High Court has noted that the documents would show that

financial assistance was provided by the British for the purposes of the

maintenance of the mosque, but this would not amount to proving that the

structure was used for the purpose of offering namaz. In connection with the

above grant of revenue free land, the following documents have been relied

upon: PART O (vii) Subsequently, on October 30, 1865, the file was
 consigned to the record.‖

III Grants of 1870 681. The British Government having discontinued the annual cash grant, on

repeated representations of Mohd Asghar and Rajjab Ali, granted fresh land in

Muafi in the villages of Bhuraipur and Sholapur in 1870. Later on, a sanad was

issued by the Chief Commissioner that the cash nankar of Rs 302/3annas/6pies

received by Rajjab Ali and Mohd Asghar as rent-free tenure in village Shahanwa

under the former Government (Rule of Nawab) was being maintained (as Muafi

and in the villages of Bhuraipur and Sholapur) under the authority of the

Governor General in Council so long as the object for which the grant had been

made was kept up. On 3 January/February 1870, an order was passed by the Settlement Officer in Mohd Afzal Ali and Mohd Asghar v Government357 , wherein it was decreed as

follows: 682. In 1931, the entry in the Nakal Khasra Abadi mentioned in the Nazul

register records the presence of Babri Masjid at Plot No. 583 and notes that the 357 Case No.5 797 PART O

same was a ―Masjid Waqf Ahde Shahi‖. This document also notes that the

Ramchabutra was famous as the birth-place. The document inter alia contains the following entries: 683. After the riots of 1856-7, the British set up a railing outside the three-

domed structure. This evidently appears to have been done to maintain peace

and order. Muslims would worship inside the railing while the Hindus would

worship outside. The platform which has been described as Ramchabutra was

constructed by the Hindus in close proximity to and outside the railing. The

construction of the Ramhabutra was adverted to in the written statement of Mohd

Asghar in the Suit of 1885. Though, according to the Muslims, on an application

by them, an order was passed for digging out the Ramchabutra, no order has

been placed on record. Following the incident of 1856-7, several cases were

instituted. These include the following: 798 The document was translated thus: (vi) An order dated 5 December 1858 was issued in case number 884 wherein

 a direction was issued by the court in furtherance of the order dated

 November 30, 1858 (wherein it was directed that the Faqir sitting in Babri

 Masjid should be ousted) directing the Police Sub-Inspector Avadh that in

 case the Faqir is not removed from the spot, he must be arrested and

 presented in court; (vii) On 6 December 1858, a report was submitted by Sheetal Dubey,

 Thanedar Oudh recording the appearance of the Faqir in court; and (viii) On 10 December 1858, an order was passed recording that the Jhanda

 (flag) was uprooted from the masjid and the Faqir residing therein was

 ousted. 684. Case no 223 filed on 5 November 1860 by Mir Rajjab Ali: On 5

November 1860, an application was filed by Mir Rajjab Ali against Askali Singh in

Case number 223 complaining about a new ―Chabootra‖ being constructed in the

graveyard. In this application it was stated that: 801 685. On 12 March 1861, an application was filed by Mohd Asghar, Rajjab Ali

and Mohd Afzal, in furtherance of the previous application, stating that Imkani

Sikh had illegally occupied the lands of the plaintiffs and had erected a

―Chabootra‖ without permission near Babri Masjid. Even though on the previous

application, orders were issued to evict Imkani Sikh from the ―Chabootra‖, but the

hut where he was staying still remained. It was submitted that whenever a

Mahant will go there or stay in the hut, a cause for dispute will arise. It was

therefore prayed that an order be issued to the Sub-Inspector that after the 802 PART O

eviction of Imkani Sikh, the hut/kutir should also be demolished and precaution

should be taken so that a foundation of a new house is not allowed to be laid; (i) On 18 March 1861, the Subedar tendered a report regarding the execution

 of an order dated 16 March 1861. It was stated that not only has Imkani

 Sikh been evicted from the Kutir (hut) but the hut has also been

 demolished; and (ii) Thereafter on 18 March 1862, the application dated 12 March 1861

 preferred by Mohd Asghar, Mir Rajjab Ali and Mohd Afzal was directed to

 be consigned to the records. 686. Application against Tulsidas and other Bairagis (Included in case

number 223 already decided on 18 April 1861): On 25 September 1866, an

application was filed by Mohd Afzal (mutawalli Masjid Babri) against Tulsidas and

other Bairagis, praying for demolishing a Kothri which had been newly

constructed ―for placing idols etc.‖ inside the door of the Masjid where the

Bairagis had constructed a ―Chabootra‖. In this application it was stated that: PART O d) The police had already been informed but no orders regarding the

 demolition of the Kothri have been issued by the government. Owing to

 this Kothri, there is an apprehension of a daily clash; e) Previously they had constructed a Ramchabutra overnight and because of

 this construction, riots happened. Now a small Kothri had been constructed

 within a short span of time. There was a possibility that they could increase

 such constructions gradually; and f) Accordingly, it was prayed that the mosque may be protected from the

 Bairagis and orders for dismantling the Kothri may be passed. g) On 12 October 1866 the Deputy Commissioner, Faizabad passed an order

 on the application of Mohd Afzal (included in case number 223) against

 Tulsidas, directing its consignment to records. 687. Niyamat Ali and Mohd Shah v Gangadhar Shastri: On 26 August 1868,

an order was passed by Major J Reed, Commissioner, Faizabad in an appeal

against the order dated 25 June 1868 passed by the Officiating Deputy

Commissioner, Faizabad in the case of Niyamat Ali and Mohd Shah v

Gangadhar Shastri. This case was filed by the Muslims against one Ganga Dhar

alleging that he was encroaching on the north-western corner of the masjid. The

order dismissed the appeal as no encroachment was proved. However, the

following observations were made: PART O (ii) There could be no encroachment until the wall of the Masjid itself had been

 dug into, however it had not been so alleged; and (iii) The previous order of the Commissioner dated 27 February 1864 directed

 that Hindus should not encroach on the boundaries of the mosque and

 Ramchabutra. However, since so encroachment was proved, there was no

 reason to interfere. 688. Mohd Asghar v Government : On 22 February 1870, a suit was filed by

Mohd Asghar (Mutawalli of Babri Masjid) seeking to evict the defendant who was

a Faqir from occupation of the trees of Imli (Bagh Imli), Khandhal and graveyard.

It was stated that: 689. Placing of Idol in 1873: In November 1873, an idol was placed on the

‗platform of Janmasthan‘ (referred to in the Deputy Commissioner‘s report dated

14 August 1877 and Commissioner‘s order dated 18 December 1877); (ii) On 7 November 1873, an order was passed in the case of Mohd Asghar v

 Mahant Baldeo Das directing the removal of the Charan Paduka which

 was not complied with; and (iii) On 10 November 1873, Baldeo Das was directed by the Deputy

 Commissioner to remove an image placed on the Janmasthan platform. A

 report was submitted stating that an officer had gone to the house of

 Baldeo Das who was not found. The order was explained to other priests

 who said they could not carry out the order. These orders were not

 complied with and the image was not removed. 690. Opening up of the northern gate (Singh Dwar in 1877) - Mohd

Asghar v Khem Dass: On 3 April 1877, the Deputy Commissioner, Faizabad

granted permission to the Hindus to open a new door (Singh Dwar) in the

northern outer wall of the disputed building. This permission was challenged by

Mohd Asghar by filing an appeal358, where he claimed that: On 14 May 1877, a report was submitted by the Deputy Commissioner, stating

that if the other door was not opened, human life would be endangered as there

was a great rush. Ultimately, on 13 December 1877, the appeal was dismissed

on the ground that the outer door was in the interests of public safety. The order

states that the petition was merely an attempt to annoy the Hindus by making

them dependent on the pleasure of the ‗mosque people‘ to open or close the

second door. 807 PART O 691. The sequence of events emanating from the installation of an idol in 1873,

the specific permission to the Hindus to open an additional access on the

northern side and the observations in the appeal that the objections to the

opening were baseless are significant. The presence and worship of the Hindus

at the site was recognised and the appellate order rejected the attempt to cede

control over the entry door to the Muslims as this would make the Hindu

community dependent on them. The administration in other words recognised

and accepted the independent right of the Hindu worshippers over the area as a

part of their worship of the idols. 692. Mohd Asghar v Musammat Humaira Bibi and Sunder Tiwari (1878): On

3 June 1878, a decree was passed in favour of Mohammed Asghar in claim

petition no 2775 of 1877 in the matter of Mohd Asghar v Musammat Humaira

Bibi and Sunder Tiwari and Bhola Tiwari and Kanshi Ram, claiming 3/8th part of

Zamindari rights of Mauza Bahoranpur Pargana Haveli Oudh. The petition was

allowed in favour of Mohammad Asghar, the plaintiff who had prayed for

evacuation and cancellation of a sale deed dated 10 August 1876 for part of

Mauza Zamindari Bahoranpur. 693. Mohd Asghar v Raghubir Das Mahant and Nirmohi Akhara: On 8

November 1882, Suit no 374/943 of 1882 was filed by Mohd Asghar (who was

the Mutawalli of Babri Masjid) against Raghubar Das claiming rent for the use of

the Chabutra and Takhat situated near the door of Babri Masjid. In this plaint the

Chabutra has been described to have been situated near the door of Babri Masjid 808 PART O

or before the masjid. By an order dated 18 June 1883, the Sub-Judge Faizabad

dismissed this suit. The necessary consequence was that Raghubar Das was not

required to pay compensation to the Mutawalli for occupation. 694. Mohd Asghar v Mahant Raghubar Das359: On 2 November 1883, Sayyed

Mohd Asghar filed case number 19435 before the Assistant Commissioner,

stating that he is entitled to get the wall of the mosque white-washed but is being

obstructed by Raghubar Das. The following points in the application are

important: place Chabutara within the Ahata of the Masjid belongs to the defendant.

 Thus the defendant has no relation with the outer wall of Ahata, kathera

 and Phatak and all these relate to the Masjid; has arisen, only the applicant has got it done; d) The applicant/plaintiff has purchased the material, but the defendant came

 there for doing the work and therefore a dispute has arisen; and e) The defendant has no right whatsoever, except over the Chabutra and Sita

 Rasoi. f) On 12 January 1884, an order was passed to maintain status quo and to

 leave the outer door open; 359 Case No. 19435 809 PART O g) On 22 January 1884, the Assistant Commissioner, Faizabad passed an

 order. a) Restricting Raghubar Das from carrying out repairs in the inner as

 well as the outer part of the compound; and b) Mohd Asghar was advised not to lock the outer door of the mosque

 as it was necessary that old existing orders be observed and

 complied with and there should be no interference in it. h) Subsequently on 27 June 1884, Raghubar Das, filed an application in

 requesting the Assistant Commissioner, Faizabad to make a spot

 inspection of the premises complaining that Muslims were violating the

 order of restraint. Impact of Suit of 1885 695. Mahant Raghubar Das instituted the Suit of 1885 against the Secretary of

State for India seeking permission to construct a temple at the Chabutra

admeasuring 17 x 21 feet where the Charan Paduka were affixed and

worshipped. In the section on res judicata, the nature of the suit has been

analysed and a finding has been arrived at that the decision does not attract the

provisions of Section 11 of the CPC 1908. 696. However, certain salient aspects of the proceedings may be noted: PART O (ii) The suit was not based on a claim of title; (iii) The only relief that was sought was the grant of permission simpliciter to

 construct the temple on the Chabutra; (iv) In the absence of any plea of title, the adjudication in the suit must

 necessary be construed as being confined to what was prayed namely

 permission to construct a temple on the Chabutra; (v) The map that was annexed to the suit does indicate the existence of the

 Masjid. But it equally indicates of worship by Hindus in the outer courtyard.

 The map submitted by Gopal Sahai, as a Court Commissioner appointed

 in the suit, together with his report dated 6 December 1885 shows the

 existence of the Masjid on the western side of the Chabutra; (vi) The suit was contested by Mohd Asghar as Mutawalli of Babri Masjid who

 claimed inter alia that: PART O 697. The Sub-Judge in declining permission indicated that to permit the

construction of the temple would essentially alter the status quo resulting in a

breach of peace. The order of the Sub-Judge dismissing the suit was affirmed in

first appeal primarily on the ground that any breach of the status quo would

seriously impinge upon the maintenance of peace. Hence, the findings in regard

to the possession and ownership of the Chabutra were redundant and were

deleted. In a second appeal, the order of the First Appellate Court was affirmed.

While the Judicial Commissioner considered it unfortunate that a mosque had

been constructed on a site which the Hindus attributed as the birth-place of Lord

Ram, he was of the view that a breach of the status quo at that stage was

undesirable. 698. All the findings in the Suit of 1885 must be read in the context of the nature

of the proceedings, the party who had moved the court for relief and its outcome.

The suit was not of a representative nature. No permission to sue in a

representative capacity was sought or obtained. The Mahant of the Janmasthan

claimed relief personal to him. Neither was a declaration of title sought nor was

the objective of the suit anything beyond seeking permission to construct a

temple on the Chabutra in order to obviate inconvenience to faqirs and

worshippers. Hence, the outcome of the suit would have no impact or bearing on

the parties to the present proceedings or on the issue of title. 812 PART O

Incidents between 1934 and 1950

Communal riots of 1934 699. In 1934, as a result of the communal riots, substantial damage was

sustained to the domes of the disputed structure. The structure was renovated at

the cost of the British through a Muslim contractor. In this context, the following

documents have been relied upon: 700. During the course of the communal riots which took place in 1934, the

domes of the disputed structure were damaged. Renovation was carried out at

the cost of the British Government through a Muslim contractor and a fine was

imposed on the Bairagis and Hindus of Ayodhya to recover the cost of repair. On 813 PART O

12 May 1934, the Muslims were permitted to commence the cleaning of the

mosque in order for it to be used for religious purposes.

Repairs to the mosque 701. Following the decision to allow repairs to be conducted, the documentary

evidence produced by the Sunni Central Waqf Board includes: The suit between Nirmohis 702. The next stage in the developments which took place post the riots of 1934

consists of Suit 95/1941, instituted by Mahant Ramcharan Das against

Raghunath Das and others. This suit pertained to properties claimed by Nirmohi

Akhara including the Ramchabutra described as ―Janmabhumi Mandir‖. Babri

Masjid is adverted to in the list of properties provided in the suit. A report was

submitted by the Commissioner on 18 April 1942. The suit was disposed of by a

compromise dated 4 June 1942 in terms of which a decree was drawn up. The

suit pertained to a dispute inter se between the Nirmohis. The Muslim parties

have relied on the compromise as indicating the existence of Babri Masjid and

the graveyard. 814 PART O

The suit between Shias and Sunnis 703. In 1945, there was a litigation between the Shias and Sunnis in Suit

29/1945 which was decided on 30 March 1946. The grievance of the Shias, as

stated in their notice dated 11 April 1945 that the Commissioner of Waqfs

included Babri Masjid in the list of Sunni mosques. The plaint notes that the

Masjid was located at Janmasthan Ayodhya. The suit was dismissed by holding

that the mosque was a Sunni mosque. The Sunni Central Waqf Board, by a letter

dated 25 November 1948 sought an explanation as to how, upon the death of the

previous Mutawalli another individual was working in the mosque.

O.8 Proof of namaz 704. Several witnesses who deposed on behalf of the plaintiffs in Suit 4 stated

that they had visited the Babri Masjid to offer namaz. Their evidence is of

relevance to determine whether namaz was being offered at the disputed

property as well as the frequency of the namaz. 705. Mohammad Hashim (PW-1): The age of the witness was stated to be

about 75 years. In the affidavit filed in lieu of the Examination-in-Chief, the

witness stated that Tabari was read only in Babri Masjid. He had sometimes read

five times namaz and the namaz of Jumme and Tabari. He claims to have read

the last namaz on 22 December 1949. In his cross-examination the witness

stated that it was in 1938 that he first went to read namaz. He further stated in his

cross-examination that namaz was offered five times daily at the disputed site. 815 PART O

During the course of his cross-examination, the witness gave a description of the

structure of the mosque. The witness states that there was no door in the east,

but he later stated that the door at the east was three feet higher than him. In his

cross-examination, the witness stated that he had read the Namaz Isha at 8 pm

on 22 December 1949 in Babri Masjid. He stated that he remembered that the

eastern gate was locked when Gopal Singh Visharad filed the suit on 15 January

1950 but did not know about the other gate. In his cross-examination PW-1

stated that the disputed building was unlocked on 2 February 1986 and a Writ

Petition was instituted pursuant to the opening of locks in February 1986.

PW-1 was unable to recollect information accurately. In his cross-examination, he

stated: 706. Haji Mehmood Ahmed (PW-2): The date of the Examination-in-Chief of

the witness is 17 September 1976. The witness was about 58 years old. The

witness stated that he had offered namaz more than a hundred times at the

disputed property. The witness stated that he had been offering five times namaz,

except Friday namaz at Babri Masjid. Namaz was last offered by him on 22nd

December, 1949. According to his account, there was no restriction on namaz till

he was offering it; he had never seen a puja performed inside the mosque.

In his cross-examination, the witness stated that when he ―came to his senses‖

(at the age of 10-11 years) he noticed that people frequently visited the disputed

property. He stated however that he did not use that way, so he could not say

whether there were any restrictions on people‘s movements. In his cross-

examination, the witness stated that he passed the High School examination in

1961 when he was 21 years old, and the certificate shows his date of birth as

1944. In his cross-examination, he admitted that his statement of age as 21 years

when he finished High School was due to some misunderstanding.

There is an evident discrepancy in the statement of PW-2 in relation to his age,

which casts a cloud of doubt on his testimony. If the year of his birth is 1944 as

stated in his High School certificate, it is difficult to believe that in 1949 when the

mosque was attached, a person who visited the mosque as a five-year old child

would have accurate recollections of a mosque he visited 47 years ago. 707. Farooq Ahmed (PW-3): The age of the witness was stated to be about

ninety years. The witness stated that he used to offer namaz at Babri Masjid. The 817 PART O

witness stated that whenever he heard the Azaan, while going to Faizabad or

coming back, he went for namaz, whatever be the time. He had last offered

namaz in December 1949. After being informed that there may be some trouble,

was asked to lock the door. He locked the door and kept the keys with him.

The witness stated in his cross-examination that he started offering namaz at the

age of 28 along with his father. The witness further stated that he has been

seeing people coming to offer namaz at the disputed property 10 years prior to

the incident of 22 December 1949. The witness stated in his cross-examination

that his father used to manage the mosque. In his cross-examination, the witness stated that it was Jumme-raat on 22

December 1949, when he went to offer prayer as it was a ‗Magrib Namaz‘ which

gives 27-fold blessings on reciting it. The witness stated that he also went to offer

namaz in a group, early morning. He participated in daily Magrib and Isha namaz.

He used to go to offer group namaz early morning at Babri Masjid. In cross-

examination, he stated that the last namaz called was Isha namaz, which took

place on around 20/22 December,1949. He further stated that the Moazzin was

sleeping on the floor when he went to lock the door. The witness clarified that in

his earlier statement, he had stated by mistake that he locked the middle door.

He stated that he had put separate locks on both the doors.

The witness stated in his cross-examination that he had filed a petition to be a

party in the case in 1990. He further stated that he had seen the affidavit which

bears his thumb impression, but the signature does not belong to him. 818 PART O

Significantly, the witness stated that the age was written as 65, but he had

mentioned an approximate age. In cross-examination, the witness admitted that in an application dated 18 March

1986, his age may have been recorded in the affidavit as 60 years: 708. Mohd Yaseen (PW-4): The date of Examination-in-Chief of the witness

was 17 October 1996. The age of the witness was stated to be 66 years. The

witness states that he read Jumme Ki Namaz in Babri Masjid. Significantly, the

witness states that he has been reading the Friday prayers at the spot

continuously and has not read any other namaz except Jumma Namaz at the

disputed property. In his cross-examination, the witness stated that he had

started going to the mosque five years before Independence. According to the

witness‘s testimony, his father used to go to Babri Masjid to offer Friday namaz.

According to the witness, Friday namaz is offered at big mosques in the city.

Before 1949, Friday namaz was either offered at Babri Masjid or at Keware wali 819 PART O

mosque. He states that 400-500 people used to offer Jumme ki Namaz at Babri

Masjid. If the number exceeded, then about 1000 people could offer namaz

together. The witness has given descriptions of the disputed property as well as the rituals

performed there. During cross-examination, when the attention of the witness

was drawn towards the map in the suit of 1989, he stated that he had seen the

map, but did not know anything about the map and could not say anything about

it. The witness states that when India got Independence, he was 11-12 years old

(then said that he was 17 years at that time). He stated that though his memory

has weakened, it does not mean that he is unable to remember old incidents. 709. Justice Agarwal has pointed out several contradictions in the statements of

PW-4 and the statements of other witnesses: 710. Abdul Rehman (PW 5): The age of the witness was stated to be 71 years.

The witness stated that he had recited the Holy Quran in Babri Masjid in 1945

and 1946. PW-5 is not a resident of Ayodhya and his village is 18-19 kilometers

away. The witness stated that he recited the Holy Quran in Ayodhya over two

continuous years. When he visited to recite the Holy Quran, he used to read

Friday namaz in Babri Masjid. In his cross-examination, the witness first stated

that he does not recollect when he went to Ayodhya for the first time. Later,

during the course of cross-examination, the witness stated: 711. Mohd. Unis Siddiqi (PW-6): The date of the Examination-in-Chief of the

witness is 28 November 1996. The age of the witness was stated to be 63 years.

The witness was enrolled as an advocate on 9 July 1955 in Lucknow. The

witness states that he went inside Babri Masjid for the first time with his elder

brother, when he was 12-13 years old in the night of Shabe-raat. He states: 712. Hasmat Ullah Ansari (PW-7): The date of the Examination-in-Chief of the

witness was 5 December 1996. The age of the witness was stated to be about 65

years. The witness stated that he was born at Ayodhya in 1932. He stated that

his date of birth is mentioned as 8 January 1934, but it is wrong. With respect to

his date of birth, the witness made the following statement in his cross-

examination: 713. Shri Abdul Aziz (PW-8): The date of the Examination-in-Chief was 20

January 1997. The age of the witness was stated to be 70 years. The witness

states that he was born in 1926 and must have been about 10 years old when

first offered namaz at the mosque. He states that he has offered namaz hundreds

of times. The witness states that he has offered ―Friday Namaz‖, ―Johar Namaz‖,

―Asar Namaz‖ and ―Namaz of Shabe-raat‖ at the mosque. The witness states that

the offering of namaz was discontinued after an idol was placed there in 1949. 824 PART O

In his cross-examination, the witness stated that he had offered the last namaz

on the Friday immediately before 22 December. Had also offered the namaz of

Shabe-raat in this mosque after two-three years of offering the first namaz in the

mosque. According to the witness, until Independence, he had been offering

namaz for the previous 13-14 years. 714. Shri Saiyad Akhlak Ahmed (PW-9): The age of the witness was stated to

be about 60 years. The witness stated that he offered Jumma namaz and the

Panchwakti namaz at the mosque. Maulana Abdul Ghaffar was the Imam of Babri

Masjid and Mian Ismail was the Moazzin. He stated in his cross-examination that

as far as he remembers, the first namaz he offered at the mosque was after

Independence and it was Namaz-e-magrib. He stated in his cross-examination

that he had gone to offer namaz at the mosque five or six days before 22-23

December, 1949. The number of persons present could be 200 to 400, or even 500. According to the witness‘s statement in his cross-examination, he would

have been 13-14 years old when he had gone to offer Namaz-e-magrib for the

first time. He further stated that when he offered his last Namaz-e-jumma in the

mosque, he was 14 years old. Though the witness stated that he had offered

namaz after 1947, he could not state even the approximate period during which

namaz was offered. Justice Agarwal noted that the witness was unable to

recollect events from memory. 715. Jaleel Ahmed (PW-14): The date of Examination-in-Chief of the witness

was 16 February 1999. The age of the witness was stated to be 78 years old.

The witness stated that he has offered namaz at Babri Masjid. In his cross- 825 PART O

examination, it emerged that Ayodhya is at a distance of 2 kms from his house.

The witness stated that he has offered both Isha and Jumma Namaz at the

Masjid. According to his statement, the witness looks after the Jinnati Masjid

located at Mohalla Nivava at Faizabad. The witness stated in his cross-

examination that he last offered namaz at Babri Masjid at the age of 24-25. He

stated that he had offered Juma Namaz at the disputed site on several

occasions. He stated that he did not offer Tarabi Namaz at the disputed site. In

his cross-examination, the witness gave a description of the disputed property.

In his cross-examination, the witness stated that he is about 78 years old and

cannot tell how long he has been offering namaz before the placing of the idol

and offering of Juma Namaz. He stated that he cannot tell if it was two months or

the last five to six years since he was offering namaz at the disputed property. He

further stated that he had offered Isha Namaz at the disputed site once. 716. Dr Hashim Qidwai (PW-21): The date of Examination-in-Chief of the

witness was stated to be 22.11.01. The age of the witness was stated to be about

80 years. The witness stated that he visited Faizabad for the first time in

December 1939, when his father was posted at Faizabad. That month, he went to

see the Babri Masjid with members of his family and performed Magrib Namaz at

the site. The witness stated that upto 1941, he used to go to Faizabad every

vacation. In October 1941, the father of the witness was transferred to Lucknow

as Additional City Magistrate. The witness stated that during the period, he

offered Magrib-ki- Namaz 15-20 times, Aasir Namaz 4 to 5 times and Friday

Namaz 2-3 times in the mosque. About 100 persons attended the Magrib-ki- 826 PART O

Namaz, 40-50 persons attended the Aasir Namaz and about 250-300 persons

performed Jumma Namaz. The witness stated that In 1984, he was elected as a

member of the Rajya Sabha and remained a Member of Parliament for six years.

He stated in his cross-examination that when he went to offer namaz for the first

time in 1939, he did not make any specific enquiry with regard to the damaged

portions of the mosque. He stated that it was 27 December, 1939 when he had

first gone to the disputed structure. The witness later stated that when he went to

the disputed property for the first and second time, he saw every part of the

building, inside and outside. He gave a detailed description of the domes and

pillars present. He stated that namazis were present in the domed structure as

well as courtyard. In his cross-examination, the witness stated that he could not go to Faizabad or

Ayodhya since May 1941. Between December 1939 and May 1941, he was not

permanently living at Faizabad and used to go there intermittently during

vacations. In cross-examination, the witness stated that he has seen the disputed

property from outside and inside, but cannot tell about the boundary in detail,

since a long period of 60-62 years had elapsed. 717. Mohd. Qasim Ansari (PW-23) (Brother of PW-1): The date of the

Examination-in-Chief was 16 January 2002. The age of the witness was stated to

be 74 years. The witness stated that he had knowledge of the disputed property,

which was located at a distance of 3 furlongs from his house. The witness stated

that he had recited namaz at the mosque for about 8-9 years. He had recited the 827 PART O

namaz of Fazir Zohar, Asir, Magrib, Isha and Tavri. He stated that he had recited

namaz for the last time on 22 December, 1949 when he recited the Isha Namaz.

He stated that four years after the placing of idols, the Muslims gave a notice to

the government that they would perform a farewell namaz there. When they went

to perform the farewell namaz, the police stopped and arrested them. Stated in

the cross-examination, when he went to recite namaz for the first time, he was in

the first grade. In his cross-examination the witness stated that the disputed site is a waqf, but

he has no knowledge about who the waqif of the mosque is. In his cross-

examination, the witness stated that he had performed Isha Namaz at the

disputed mosque on 22 December, 1949 at about 7:30 pm. Later he stated that

he could not tell when he recited namaz for the last time at the disputed structure.

It is of relevance to refer to the observations of Justice Agarwal with respect to

the statements of PW-23. He noted the following statement made by PW-23: 718. Sibte Mohd Naqvi (PW-25): The date of Examination-in-Chief of the

witness was 5 March 2002. The age of the witness was stated to be 76 years.

The witness had seen the structure from afar. He stated that he had been visiting

Ayodhya since 1948 and had seen namazis going to Babri Masjid. The witness

stated that he had not seen anyone performing namaz at the disputed property.

Since the witness has not himself visited the disputed property or actually seen

anyone perform namaz at the site, the evidence tendered by PW-25 is hearsay.

The evidence of some of the witnesses deposing for the plaintiff in Suit 4 have

contradictions and inconsistencies as noted earlier. The court must however

assess the staements in a robust manner, making due allowance for the normal

failings of memory. Many of the statements in the affidavits filed by the witnesses

in their Examination-in-Chief have sweeping claims and generalisations which

are not validated during the course of cross-examination. Assessing the

statements it cannot be concluded that namaz was not being offered at all at the

disputed property. The oral statements in evidence have to be evaluated with the

documentary evidence. The report dated 10 December 1949 of Muhammad

Ibrahim, Waqf Inspector notes: and (viii) The passing of a preliminary order under Section 145 on 29 December

 1949 in pursuance of which the receiver took charge on 5 January 1950

 and made an inventory of the attached property. The Sunni Central Waqf Board contended in para 11 of their plaint in Suit 4 that

on 23 December, 1949, the mosque was desecrated by the installation of idols of

Lord Ram under the central dome of the mosque. The plaintiffs in Suit 4 and 5 did

not dispute that the idols of the deity were placed within the central dome during

the intervening night of 22/23 December, 1949. Nirmohi Akhara however, denied

the occurrence of the event to suggest that the idols were always present below

the central dome of the mosque. The following issues were framed by the High Court in Suits 1, 4 and 5: PART O

O.10 Nazul land 723. Before the High Court, it was not disputed by the litigating parties that the

plot of land in which the disputed structure existed was recorded as Nazul land

(i.e. land which is owned by the government), bearing plot No. 583, Khasra of

1931 of Mohalla Kot Ram Chandra known as Ram Kot, City Ayodhya, Nazul

Estate Ayodhya. The number of the plot in which the disputed structure was

situated was not disputed and it was admitted that the plot was recorded as

Nazul land in the first settlement of 1861 and continued as such on the date of

the institution of the suit. 724. In fact, in paragraph 24(B) of the written statement of the UP Sunni Central

Board of Waqf in Suit 5, it has been stated: 725. Under the circular dated 13 July 1859 issued by the Government of North-

Western Provinces, every Commissioner was required to maintain a final

confiscation statement of each district and to present it before the government for

orders. The Kingdom of Oudh was annexed by the East India Company in 1856.

After the revolt broke out in May 1857, a substantial area of the North Western

Provinces vested in the Government. As a consequence of the failure of the

revolt, Lord Canning as the Governor General issued a proclamation on 15 May

1858 confiscating proprietary rights in the soil with the exception of 5 or 6

persons who had supported the colonial government. This land was initially

resettled for three years and then permanent proprietary rights were given to

talukdars and zamindars by the grant by sanad under the Crown Grants Act. With

effect from 1 November 1858, the entire territory under the control of the East

India Company was placed under the British Crown. In the first settlement of

1861, the land in dispute was shown as Nazul, a status which was continuously

maintained. 726. Sri Ram Sharan Srivastava (DW 2 /1-2), who was the Collector at

Faizabad between July 1987 and 1990 has deposed in the following terms: 727. There can be no dispute about the status of the land as Nazul land.

However, while recording this, it is necessary to bear in mind that the state

government indicated during the course of the trial before the High Court that it

was not asserting any interest in the subject matter of the dispute and was not

contesting the suit. It was in these circumstances that the High Court held that

though the land is shown to be continued as Nazul plot No. 583 of the Khasra of

the year 1931 of Mohalla Kot Ramchandra, it would effectively not impact upon

the claims of the two communities each of whom has asserted title to the land. 840 PART O

O.11 Waqf by user 728. The documentary evidence relied upon by the plaintiffs in Suit 4 to

demonstrate that the mosque stood on dedicated land originates after the

colonial annexation of Oudh and after the year 1856. This was fairly admitted by

Dr Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing in behalf of the plaintiffs in Suit 4.

The plaintiffs in Suit 4 were unable to establish a specific grant of the land as a

foundation of legal title prior to the annexation of Oudh or upon the transfer of

power to the colonial administration after 1857. 729. An attempt was made at an advanced stage of the hearing to contend that

the disputed site marked out by the letters A B C D is waqf property, not by virtue

of a specific dedication, but because of the long usage of the property as a site of

religious worship by the Muslim community. Dr Dhavan, learned senior counsel

appearing on behalf of the plaintiffs in Suit 4 contended that the concept of a

waqf has a broad connotation in Islamic Law. Hence, it was urged that even in

the absence of an express dedication, the long use of the disputed site for public

worship as a mosque elevates the property in question to a ‗waqf by user‘.

To support this proposition, Dr Dhavan contended that since the construction of

the mosque by Emperor Babur in 1528 till its desecration on 22/23 December

1949, namaz has been offered in the mosque. Hence, the disputed property has

been the site of religious worship. Further, he urges that the Muslims have been

in settled possession of the disputed property and had used the mosque for the 841 PART O

performance of public religious worship. Thus, despite the absence of a deed of

dedication, the disputed site has been used for public religious worship for over

four centuries, resultingly constituting its character as waqf property by long use. 730. This contention raises two points for determination: First, whether the

notion of a waqf by user is accepted as a principle of law by our courts; and

second, as a matter of fact, whether its application is attracted in the present

case. Pleadings in Suit 4 731. In the first paragraph of the plaint, the plaintiffs set up the case that on its

construction in 1528 AD by or at the behest of Babur, the mosque was dedicated

as a site of religious worship for the Muslims to offer namaz: 732. A waqf is a dedication of movable or immovable property for a religious or

charitable purpose recognised by Muslim law. Ordinarily, a waqf is brought into

existence by an express act of dedication in the form of a declaration. Upon

pronouncing the declaration, the property sought to be dedicated is divested from

the wakif as the person making the dedication and vests in the Almighty, Allah. A

waqf is a permanent and irrevocable dedication of property and once the waqf is

created, the dedication cannot be rescinded at a later date. The property of a

validly created waqf is inalienable and cannot be sold or leased for private gain. 733. Muslim law does not require an express declaration of a Waqf in every

case. The dedication resulting in a waqf may also be reasonably inferred from the

facts and circumstances of a case or from the conduct of the wakif. In the

absence of an express dedication, the existence of a waqf can be legally

recognised in situations where property has been the subject of public religious

use since time immemorial. This concept of a waqf by user has also found 843 PART O

statutory recognition in Section 3(r) of the Waqf Act,360 1995 which defines a

―waqf‖ as: 734. The doctrine of waqf by user received judicial recognition in the decision

of the Privy Council in The Court of Wards for the property of Makhdum

Hassan Bakhsh v Ilahi Bakhsh.362 The case concerned a public graveyard in

Multan where a prominent Muslim saint was buried. The Court of Wards, acting

for the property of Makhdum Bakhsh, proposed to sell certain property within the

area of the graveyard on which no graves existed. The Muslim residents of

Multan sought an injunction restraining the proposed sale on the ground that the

entire graveyard was inalienable waqf property due to its long use as a public

graveyard of the Muslim community. Lord Macnaghten held: 735. The above decision was followed by the Oudh Chief Court in Abdul

Ghafoor v Rahmat Ali.363 The plaintiffs sought a declaration that the suit

property was a public graveyard and the defendant was not entitled to construct

any structure on it. The graveyard in question had been closed to the public by

the Municipal Board for forty years. The defendant argued that the plaintiffs had 362 ILR (1913) 40 Cal 297 363 AIR 1930 Oudh 245 845 PART O

not established the use of the graveyard till the suit in question, and that by non-

use for forty years, it had lost its characteristic as a waqf. In holding that the

graveyard continued to be a public waqf, Justice Srivastava, speaking for the

Oudh Chief Court held: 736. In some cases, courts were faced with a situation where property was

used as waqf property since time immemorial and it was not practical to seek

formal proof in the form of a deed of declaration. A specific document of

dedication may be unavailable after a long lapse of time but the use of the

property for public religious or charitable purpose may have continued since time

immemorial. Hence, despite the absence of an express deed of dedication,

where the long use of the property as a site for public religious purpose is

established by oral or documentary evidence, a court can recognise the

existence of a waqf by user. The evidence of long use is treated as sufficient

though there is no evidence of an express deed of dedication. 846 PART O 737. In Miru v Ram Gopal364 the plaintiff was a zamindar of the property. One

Rahim Baksh had occupied the property and built a makeshift or ‗katcha‘ platform

for offering prayers. As of 1904, prayers were being offered by local Muslim

residents at this ‗katcha‘ mosque. The Muslim residents, who were the

defendants sought to build a permanent structure of a mosque at the site. This

was resisted by the plaintiff, who sought an injunction for restraining construction

of the new mosque. The court observed that the khasra for the plot stated,

―masjid‖. Justice Bennet, speaking on a Division Bench of the Calcutta High

Court, stated: 738. The principle of a waqf by user has also found recognition in the

jurisprudence of this Court. The decision in the case of Faqir Mohamad Shah v 848 PART O

Qazi Fasihuddin Ansari365 concerned two distinct time periods: the period from

circa 1681 to 1880 and the period from 1880 to 1956. As of 1880, there existed

an ‗old mosque‘ which the contesting parties admitted was waqf property.

Subsequent to 1880, the defendant, being the mutawalli of the ‗old mosque‘,

increased its size and built various structures on adjacent properties. Some were

used by him in his personal capacity and some of these structures were used by

the public for worship. Cumulatively, these structures constituted the ‗new

mosque‘. The resident Sunni community, as plaintiffs, sought a declaration that

both the ‗old mosque‘ and the ‗new mosque‘ were waqf properties. The defendant

resisted these claims and argued that the ‗new mosque‘ was his own personal

property. Justice Vivian Bose, speaking for a three judge Bench of this Court,

held: … 73. … It is now admitted, and was so found in the 1880 litigation,
 that the old mosque was wakf property. It can be assumed that
 the rest was not wakf at that date and indeed that is also our
 conclusion on a review of the evidence. But much has
 happened since the 1880 litigation and there have been
 subsequent additions and accretions to the original estate
 so that now the whole of those additions and accretions
 form part and parcel of the original Waqf.‖

 (Emphasis supplied) 739. Our jurisprudence recognises the principle of waqf by user even absent an

express deed of dedication or declaration. Whether or not properties are waqf

property by long use is a matter of evidence. The test is whether the property has

been used for public religious worship by those professing the Islamic faith. The

evidentiary threshold is high, in most cases requiring evidence of public worship

at the property in question since time immemorial. In Faqir Mohamad Shah, it

was admitted that the old mosque was waqf property. The court subsequently

examined the evidence on record to determine whether the structures forming the

‗new mosque‘ built on property adjoining the ‗old mosque‘ had also been used for

public religious worship. It is on this basis that this Court held portions of the ‗new

mosque‘, in conjunction with the ‗old mosque‘, to be a composite waqf property. 850 PART O

Application to the present case 740. Having set out the legal principles on waqf by user as recognised by our

courts, the next question is whether the principle is attracted in the present case.

The contention urged on behalf of the plaintiffs in Suit 4 must be read in

conjunction with the relief prayed for in Suit 4. The relief sought is: Amendment/

 Addition made as per Court‘s order dt. 25.5.95 Sd./-

 (bb) That the statutory Receiver be commanded to hand over the
 property in dispute described in Schedule ‗A‘ of the Plaint by
 removing the unauthorized structures erected thereon.‖

The claim of waqf by user raised in Suit 4 relates to both the inner and the outer

courtyard. According to the plaintiffs the mosque vests in the Almighty, Allah. It

has been contended that by virtue of the long and continuous use by the resident

Muslim community of the disputed site marked by the letters A B C D, the

disputed site must be recognised as a waqf by user. 851 PART O 741. Dr Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiffs in

Suit 4, admitted that there is no evidence of possession, use or offering of

worship in the mosque prior to 1856-7. No evidence has been produced to

establish worship at the mosque or possessory control over the disputed property

marked by the letters A B C D over the period of 325 years between the alleged

date of construction in 1528 until the erection of railing by the colonial

government in 1857. Hence in the absence of evidence on record, no conclusion

can be drawn that prior to 1857, the disputed site was used for worship by the

resident Muslim community. Following the events in 1856-57, the colonial

government erected the railing to bifurcate the areas of worship into the inner

courtyard and the outer courtyard. Shortly thereafter, the Ramchabutra was

constructed in the outer courtyard. Worship at the Ramchabutra and at the pre-

existing Sita Rasoi led to the worship of the Hindus being institutionalised within

the property marked by the letters A B C D. 742. The construction of the railing was not an attempt to settle proprietary

rights. It was an expedient measure to ensure law and order. Disputes between

1858 and 1883 indicated that the attempt to exclude the Hindus from the inner

courtyard by raising a railing was a matter of continuing dispute. Significantly, the

activities of the Hindu devotees in the outer courtyard continued. An important

indicator in this regard was the decision of the colonial administration to allow the

opening of an additional door to the outer courtyard in 1877 to facilitate the entry

of Hindu devotees against which objections were raised and rejected. The need

for an additional point of entry for Hindu devotees is an indicator of the extensive 852 PART O

nature of their use to offer worship. On gaining entry, the Hindu devotees offered

worship at several structures such as the Ramchabutra and Sita Rasoi. The

Bhandar was also under their control in the outer courtyard. This indicated that

insofar as the outer courtyard was concerned, the Hindu devotees were in settled

possession and actively practicing their faith. This possession of the Hindu

devotees over the outer courtyard was open and to the knowledge of the

Muslims. Several incidents between 1857 and 1949 have been adverted to in

another part of the judgment which indicate that the possession of the inner

courtyard was a matter of serious contest. The Muslims did not have possession

over the outer courtyard. There is a lack of adequate evidence to establish that

there was exclusive or unimpeded use of the inner courtyard after 1858. 743. The contention of the plaintiffs in Suit 4 is that the entire property of the

mosque, including both the inner and outer courtyards is waqf property. Once a

property is recognised as waqf, the property is permanently and irrevocably

vested in the Almighty, Allah from the date the waqf is deemed to be in existence.

The land is rendered inalienable and falls within the regulatory framework of waqf

legislation and Islamic law. The doctrine of waqf by user is well established in

our law. However, as noted by the precedents detailed above, it is a doctrine of

necessity to deal with cases where a property has been the site of long and

consistent religious use by members of the Islamic faith but the original

dedication is lost to the sands of time. Given the radical alterations to the

characteristics of ownership of the property consequent upon a recognition of a

waqf by user, the evidentiary burden to prove a waqf by user is high. The 853 PART O

pleadings in the plaint in Suit 4 are deficient. No particulars of the extent or nature

of the use have been set out. A stray sentence in paragraph 2 of the plaint cannot

sustain a case of waqf by user. Moreover, the contention that the entire property

was a single composite waqf cannot be assessed in a vacuum. The Court cannot

ignore the evidence of established religious worship by Hindu devotees within the

premises of the disputed site. If the contention urged by the plaintiffs in Suit 4 that

the entire disputed property is a waqf by user is accepted, it would amount to

extinguishing all rights claimed by the Hindus in the disputed property as a site of

religious worship. 744. In the decisions adverted to above in which claims of a waqf by user have

been recognised, the claims were not made in the context of another religious

community also utilising the property for the conduct of religious worship. It flows

that the consequence of recognition of a waqf by user in the facts of these cases

did not lead to the extinguishing of competing and legally tenable rights of

another religious community. In Miru v Ram Gopal,366 the Allahabad High Court

held that the public religious use of the zamindar‘s property extinguished the

zamindar‘s secular title to the property. However, this decision was in the context

where there existed a katcha mosque on the land and the zamindar consented to

the continued use of his land for Muslim prayers. The High Court observed: 745. The evidence adduced does not demonstrate that the entire disputed

property was utilised by the resident Muslim community for public religious

worship. It is evident that the outer courtyard was in fact used by and was in the

possession of the devotees of Lord Ram. These portions of the property were

admittedly not used for religious purposes by the members of the resident Muslim

community and cannot be waqf property by long use. Further, the consequences

that stem from recognising the entire disputed property marked by the letters A B

C D in the present case as waqf by user is a mirror image to the claim of the

plaintiffs in Suit 5 of recognising the land itself as a juristic person. The

consequence would be the destruction of the rights of another community to offer 855 PART O

worship by virtue of the internal tenets of a specific religion which have been

recognised for a specific purpose. The law recognises that where, since time

immemorial, worship has been offered at a land with a mosque, the land is

presumed to have been dedicated for a religious purpose and even absent a

dedication, is waqf by user. However, this may not be extended to the

extinguishment of competing and established religious rights of another

community in the same property particular in the face of the evidence noted

above. Accepting the contention urged on behalf of the plaintiffs in Suit 4 would

have this effect and cannot be countenanced by law.

O.12 Possession and adverse possession 746. The plaintiffs in Suit 4 plead adverse possession in the alternative. The

basis for claiming adverse possession has been set up in paragraph 11(a) of the

plaint (as amended) which reads as follows: 747. A plea of adverse possession is founded on the acceptance that ownership

of the property vests in another against whom the claimant asserts a possession

adverse to the title of the other. Possession is adverse in the sense that it is

contrary to the acknowledged title in the other person against whom it is claimed.

Evidently, therefore, the plaintiffs in Suit 4 ought to be cognisant of the fact that

any claim of adverse possession against the Hindus or the temple would amount

to an acceptance of a title in the latter. Dr Dhavan has submitted that this plea is

a subsidiary or alternate plea upon which it is not necessary for the plaintiffs to

stand in the event that their main plea on title is held to be established on

evidence. It becomes then necessary to assess as to whether the claim of

adverse possession has been established. 748. A person who sets up a plea of adverse possession must establish both

possession which is peaceful, open and continuous - possession which meets

the requirement of being ‗nec vi nec claim and nec precario‘. To substantiate a 857 PART O

plea of adverse possession, the character of the possession must be adequate in

continuity and in the public because the possession has to be to the knowledge

of the true owner in order for it to be adverse. These requirements have to be

duly established first by adequate pleadings and second by leading sufficient

evidence. Evidence, it is well settled, can only be adduced with reference to

matters which are pleaded in a civil suit and in the absence of an adequate

pleading, evidence by itself cannot supply the deficiency of a pleaded case.

Reading paragraph 11(a), it becomes evident that beyond stating that the

Muslims have been in long exclusive and continuous possession beginning from

the time when the Mosque was built and until it was desecrated, no factual basis

has been furnished. This is not merely a matter of details or evidence. A plea of

adverse possession seeks to defeat the rights of the true owner and the law is

not readily accepting of such a case unless a clear and cogent basis has been

made out in the pleadings and established in the evidence. 749. Though, paragraph 11(a) dates the commencement of the possession of

the Muslims from the date of the construction of the mosque, it has emerged that

no records are available with respect to possession for the period between 1528

and 1860. Moreover, setting up the plea of adverse possession in the alternative

or as a subsidiary plea seems to be a distinct improvement in the manner in

which the presentation of the plea has evolved. In Suit 2 (which was withdrawn

subsequently), a written statement was filed by the first defendant who is also

plaintiff no 10 in Suit 4. In the course of the written statement, the first defendant

asserted that if at any time any plaintiffs to the suit or any other Hindus prove that 858 PART O

prior to the construction of the Masjid there existed any temple on the spot, even

in that case the Muslims were in possession for over 400 years, and their

possession was in the knowledge of the Hindus. Consequently, there is no title in

the Hindus. 750. Subsequently, by the time that Suit 4 was instituted, the plea of adverse

possession was relegated to a subsidiary contention, the main contention being

that there was a dedication to public worship upon the construction of the

mosque by Babur. In fact, even during the course of these proceedings, there

has been a certain amount of ambivalence about the manner in which the plea of

adverse possession has been addressed in the course of the proceedings. Dr

Rajeev Dhavan in the course of his written arguments on adverse possession

has adduced the following submissions: PART O

Instead, the submission while addressing arguments in Suit 4 has been inverted

to appear as though it is a submission which is being asserted only by Nirmohi

Akhara and the deities. Paragraph 11(a) which has been extracted above is the

pleading of the Sunni Central Waqf Board and the other supporting plaintiffs

which specifically seeks to set up a plea of adverse possession. 751. Any attempt to define possession must be context specific. A uniform

formulation of principle of universal application is elusive to the grasp. The

difficulty lies in converting myriad factual situations, replete with their

complexities, into a legal paradigm. The doctrine coalesces a fact – that of being

in possession – and an intent, the animus of being in possession. 752. In Supdt. and Remembrance of Legal Affairs, West Bengal v Anil

Kumar Bhunja367, Justice R S Sarkaria , speaking for a three judge Bench of this

Court noted that the concept of possession is ―polymorphous‖ embodying both a

right (the right to enjoy) and a fact (the real intention). The learned judge held: In P Lakshmi Reddy v L Lakshmi Reddy368, Justice Jagannadhadas , speaking

for a three judge Bench of this Court dwelt on the ―classical requirement‖ of

adverse possession: In Annakili v A Vedanayagam371 , this Court emphasized that mere possession

of land would not ripen into a possessory title. The possessor must have animus

possidendi and hold the land adverse to the title of the true owner. Moreover, he

must continue in that capacity for the period prescribed under the Limitation Act . 753. In the decision of the Privy Council in Masjid Shahidganj v. Shiromani

Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, Amritsar372 , there was a structure of a

mosque in Lahore which had been built in 1722. From 1762 or thereabouts the

building and adjacent land had been in the occupation and possession of Sikhs.

At the time of annexation by the British in 1849, the mosque and the property 370 (2004) 10 SCC 779 371 (2007) 14 SCC 308 372 AIR 1940 PC 116 862 PART O

dedicated to it were in the possession of the Mahant of the Sikh Gurudwara and

the building of the mosque had been used by the custodians of the Sikh

institution. Under the Sikh Gurdwaras Act 1925, the old mosque building and

appurtenant adjacent land were included as belonging to the Gurudwara. The

Muslims initiated litigation before the Sikhs Gurudwaras Tribunal in 1928 which

resulted in a finding that their claim was defeated by reason of adverse

possession. A suit was instituted by 18 plaintiffs including by the mosque itself suing through a

next friend while the others claimed a right of worship. The suit was for a

declaration against the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee that the

building was a mosque in which the followers of Islam had a right to worship. The

suit was dismissed by the District Judge and his decision was affirmed in a split

verdict by a Full Bench of the High Court. Sir George Rankin speaking for the

Privy Council held: 754. In a judgment rendered in 2015, one of us (Justice Abdul Nazeer) as a

Single Judge of the Karnataka High Court succinctly identified and laid down 373

the pre-requisites of a claim to adverse possession in the following terms: 755. The plaintiffs have failed to adopt a clear stand evidently because they are

conscious of the fact that in pleading adverse possession, they must necessarily

carry the burden of acknowledging the title of the person or the entity against

whom the plea of adverse possession has not been adequately set up in the

pleadings and as noted above, has not been put-forth with any certitude in the

course of the submissions. Above all, it is impossible for the plaintiffs to set up a

case of being in peaceful, open and continuous possession of the entire property.

Dr Dhavan repeatedly asserted that the Muslims were obstructed in their offering

worship at the mosque as a result of the illegalities of the Hindus. For this

purposes, Dr Dhavan refers to the incidents which took place in 1856-7, 1934 374 (2019) 8 SCC 729 865 PART O

and 1949 – the last of them leading up to the preliminary order under Section 145. The events which are associated with each of the above incidents constitute

indicators in the ultimate finding that in spite of the existence of the structure of

the mosque, possession as asserted by the Muslims cannot be regarded as

meeting the threshold required for discharging the burden of a case of adverse

possession. The evidence in the records indicate that Hindus, post the setting up

of the railing have, in any event, been in possession of the outer courtyard. On

this basis alone, the plea of adverse possession set up by the plaintiffs in respect

of the entirety of the area represented by the letters A B C D must fail.

For the reasons indicated above, the plaintiffs in Suit 4 have failed to meet the

requirements of adverse possession. O.13 Doctrine of the lost grant 756. During the course of arguments, Dr Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior

Counsel appearing on behalf of the Sunni Central Waqf Board, urged that by

virtue of the doctrine of lost grant, the plaintiffs in Suit 4 sought a declaration on

the basis of a dedication of the mosque, upon its construction by Babur in 1528

for the worship of the Muslim community. Decisions on the doctrine 757. Under the doctrine of lost grant, a long-continued use or possession can

raise a legal presumption that the right exercised was previously conveyed to the 866 PART O

user or possessor and that the instrument of conveyance has been lost.375

According to Halsbury Laws of England –

 ―The courts first laid down the rule that from the user of a
 lifetime the presumption arose that a similar use had existed
 from remote antiquity. As it could not but happen that in many
 cases, such a presumption was impossible, in order to
 support possession and enjoyment, which the law ought to
 have invested with the character of rights, recourse was had
 to the theory of lost modern grants...‖376

The doctrine only applies where the enjoyment or use of land cannot otherwise

be reasonably accounted for.377 In the absence of an instrument of conveyance,

enjoyment since the time of legal memory is to be viewed as an indication that

the right claimed had been conferred on the claimant (or his predecessors) by a

grant.378 The grant maybe expressed or presumed.379 The onus of proving

continued and uninterrupted enjoyment of property through long use is on the

plaintiff. The court will not presume a lost grant in cases where there was no

person who could ever have made such a grant, or where there was no person or

persons competent to receive a particular grant.380 As there is a legal

presumption of a grant, the doctrine is not applicable unless throughout the

necessary period there existed some person or persons, alone or together,

capable of conveying the interest claimed to have been transferred by the lost

grant.381 For valid application of the doctrine, the only conclusive evidence is that 375 Jerome J. Curtis, " Reviving The Lost Grant" Real Property, Probate And Trust Journal 23, No. 3 (1988) at
pages 535-60. Halsbury Laws of England, Vol 14, Fourth Edition para 90 377 Halsbury Laws of England, Vol 14, Fourth Edition, para 91 378 Jerome J. Curtis, " Reviving The Lost Grant‖ Real Property, Probate And Trust Journal 23, No. 3 (1988) at
pages 535-60. Jerome J. Curtis, "Reviving The Lost Grant‖ Real Property, Probate And Trust Journal 23, No. 3 (1988) at
pages 535-60. Halsbury Laws of England, Vol 14, Fourth Edition, para 94 381 Halsbury Laws of England, Vol 14, Fourth Edition, para 94 867 PART O

possession must be uninterrupted for a sufficient length of time. The doctrine of

lost grant is not based upon evidence of long use but for default of evidence.382 A

person seeking to establish a claim to an easement under this doctrine should

plead lost grant, but need not state in his pleadings the date and names of the

parties to the alleged modern grant.383 758. In a Privy Council decision in Chockalingam Pillai v Mayandi Chettiar384,

Lord Buckmaster explained the presumption of a lawful origin in support of

proprietary rights long and quietly enjoyed in the following terms: 759. The above decision was referred to in a decision of the Calcutta High

Court in Asrabulla v Kiamatulla Haji Chaudhury386 , where the plaintiffs claimed

that since time immemorial the inhabitants of a village had been grazing their

cattle in a disputed land openly and without any interruptions and thereby, they

had acquired a right of pasturage by virtue of the doctrine of presumption of lost

grant. Justice B K Mukherjea (as he then was), speaking for the Division Bench

held thus: 760. The Privy Council in N Sankaranarayana Pillayan v Board Of

Commissioners For The Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras387 , dealt with

a case where the parties claimed that they were the owners of the suit properties,

comprising of both inam (rent free) and ryotwari or ayan (assessed) lands, and 386 AIR 1937 Cal 245 387 AIR 1948 PC 25 869 PART O

that only a part of the income was subject to a charge for meeting the expenses

of the midnight kattalai according to a prescribed scale in the Sri

Papavinasaswami Temple at Papanasam in Madras. The question before the

court was whether the suit properties had been wholly dedicated to the religious

charity or whether there had been merely a charge on the income of the

properties in favour of the charity. The court found that the endowment was

founded by the Carnatic Rajas and not by the ancestors of the appellants, who

were mere managers or supervisors of the endowment. The properties and the

income therefrom were absolutely dedicated to the temple, and mainly for the

purposes of the midnight services, and the appellants had no beneficial interest in

any surplus income. Discussing the documentary evidence for the purpose of

determining the true nature of the endowment, Justice M R Jayakar held thus: 761. In a later decision of the Privy Council in Lakshmidhar Misra v

Rangalal388 , the appellants in a representative capacity on behalf of the villagers

claimed a parcel of land as a cremation ground since time immemorial. The

respondent on the other hand claimed the land for the purpose of a private

industry. The Subordinate Judge in first appeal held that the reservation of land

amounted to a dedication or a grant by the landlord. The High Court in second

appeal set aside the decision of the Subordinate Judge on the ground that there

existed no valid grant and dismissed the appellant‘s suit. In appeal, the Privy

Council held that the issue of whether the land had been used as a cremation

ground was a mixed question of fact and law and the appellant‘s claim that the 388 AIR 1950 PC 56 871 PART O

disputed property was the village cremation ground was based on customary

practice attracting a legal custom. Hence the doctrine of lost grant was held to

have no applicability. Explaining the applicability of doctrine of lost grant, Lord

Radcliffe held thus: 762. In a three judge Bench decision of this Court in Raja Braja Sundar Deb v

Moni Behara389 , it was claimed that the principal defendants and their ancestors

had long remained in undisturbed actual physical possession of a fishery on a

fixed annual rental and had acquired this right in all possible ways i.e. by grant,

custom, adverse possession and easement. A suit for injunction was brought by

the plaintiff on behalf other fishermen residing in nine villages on the ground that

being the proprietors of the fishery, they were the exclusive owners of the fishery

and the defendants were interfering with the plaintiff‘s right of enjoyment and

causing losses. The Trial Court passed a decree in favour of the plaintiff which

was later modified in appeal by the High Court, where it was held that the

defendants by virtue of lost grant had exclusive rights as tenants to fish in the

fishery only during the Hilsa season. Reversing the decision of the High Court

Justice Meher Chand Mahajan (as he then was), speaking for the Bench held

thus: 763. According to ―Halsbury Laws of England‖: 764. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Monohar Das Mohanta v Charu

Chandra Pal393 , had to deal with a suit for recovery of possession of various plots

of land filed by the appellant, a Mahant of a religious institution against the

defendants. In the alternate, the appellant sought for assessment of fair and

equitable rent. The respondents contested the suits, and pleaded that the 392 AIR 1965 SC 516 393 AIR 1955 SC 228 875 PART O

disputed lands did not form part of the zamindari but a grant had been made in

favour of their predecessors-in-title long prior to the permanent settlement and

that neither the Maharaja of Burdwan nor the plaintiff claiming under him had any

title to them. The District Court upheld the decision of the Munsif and held that

the defendants and the predecessors had been in possession for a very long time

without payment of rent and a presumption of lost grant could be made in their

favour. The High Court dismissed the appeal against the decision of the District

Court. The issue before this Court was whether on the materials on record the

courts below were right in presuming a lost grant in favour of the defendants. This

Court held that no presumption of a lost grant could be made in favour of the

defendants, and that the plaintiff was entitled to assessment of fair and equitable

rent on the holdings in their possession. Speaking for the Bench, Justice T L

Venkatarama Ayyar, explained the applicability of the doctrine of lost grant in the

following terms: 765. In Konda Lakshmana Bapuji v Government of A P394 , the respondent

claimed that the land in dispute was shown as Maqta land and later as Inam land.

The appellant claimed to be an assessee of one of the successors to the said

Maqta and he had occupied the land in 1958 and constructed a building upon it. It

was argued that the principle of lost grant would apply as the appellant has been

in possession of the land in dispute for a considerable length of time under an

assertion of title. It was alleged by the respondent that the claim of the appellant

was not lawful because the land never belonged to the said Maqta; even

otherwise it vested in the Government with effect from the said date and the order

of the Collector, correcting entries in the record of rights, had become final. A two

judge Bench of this Court, while rejecting the claim of doctrine of lost grant,

referred to the decision of Monohar Das Mohanta and held that a presumption

of lost grant will not be available to the appellant who traced his possession from

1954 under an unregistered perpetual lease from the erstwhile Inamdar

(Maqtedar). 394 (2002) 3 SCC 258 877 PART O 766. A two judge Bench of this Court in Braja Kishore Jagdev v Lingraj

Samantaray395 , dealt with the respondent‘s claim to be a hereditary trustee of a

public religious institution based on the contention that his ancestors had been

entrusted with the management of affairs of the religious institution which had

been established long ago by an unknown founder. It was contended by the

respondent that their family had been performing seva and puja without any

interruption whatsoever as marfatdars and the office of marfatdar was hereditary

and regulated by custom. The appellants contested the claim of the respondent

and the Assistant Commissioner rejected the claim of the respondent. However,

the High Court in appeal allowed the respondent‘s claim and held him to be a

hereditary trustee based on the doctrine of lost grant. Justice S Rajendra Babu

while setting aside the High Court‘s decision held thus: 767. From the analysis of the precedent on the subject, the following principles

can be culled out: The grant maybe express or presumed. Once the assumption is made, the

 court shall, as far as possible, secure the possession of those who have

 been in quiet possession; (iii) For a lawful presumption there must be no legal impediments. For the

 applicability of the doctrine it is necessary to establish that at the inception

 when the grant was made not only was there a valid grant but also capable

 grantees in whose favour the grant could have been made. In the absence

 of defined grantees, there will be no presumption of lost grant; (iv) For the applicability of the doctrine of lost grant, there must be long,

 uninterrupted and peaceful enjoyment of an incorporeal right.

 Uninterrupted enjoyment includes continuous use or possession. The 879 PART O

 requisite period of use and possession is variable and to be determined

 from case to case; and (v) A distinction has to be made between an assertion of rights due to a

 prolonged custom and usage and that by doctrine of lost grant.

Analysis 768. In the present case, the plaintiffs in Suit 4 have set up a claim of

declaration on the basis of a dedication of the mosque constructed by Babur in

1528 for the worship of the Muslim community and, in the alternate, on adverse

possession, if it is established that the mosque was constructed on the site of a

Hindu temple. There is no pleading by the plaintiffs to support the application of

the doctrine of lost grant. The specific case of the plaintiffs is that of a dedication

of the mosque for public worship by Muslims. This must be evaluated on the

basis of the evidence which has been adduced. In fact, the alternate plea of

adverse possession is destructive of a valid legal basis to apply the doctrine of

lost grant as a rule of evidence. Adverse possession postulates the vesting of title

in one person and the existence of a long continued and uninterrupted

possession of another, to the knowledge of and in a manner hostile to, the true

title holder. The plea of adverse possession would lead to an inference against

the application of the doctrine of lost grant as a plea of adverse possession is

premised in title vesting in someone other than the alleged grantee. The

decisions of this Court and those of the Privy Council recognising the doctrine as

a rule of evidence show that the principle must be applied with caution. The 880 PART O

doctrine does not constitute an independent, substantive head for the recognition

of titles but is a rule of evidence. Section 110 of the Evidence Act 1872 speaks of

the burden of proof as to ownership : when a question arises as to whether a

person in possession of anything is the owner of such thing, the burden of

proving that he is not the owner is cast on the person who avers that he is not the

owner. In the process of applying the doctrine of lost grant as a rule of evidence,

the court must be circumspect about not travelling beyond the limits set for it by

the legislature. In the present case, absent any pleadings and of evidence on the basis of which

a presumption could be raised of the application of the doctrine, it must

necessarily follow that the doctrine of lost grant has no application.

O.14 The smokescreen of the disputed premises – the wall of 1858 769. The disputed site has witnessed a medley of faiths and the co-existence of

Hindu and Muslim practices, beliefs and customs. A blend of Hindu and Muslim

elements emerges from the religious and architectural tradition associated with

the erstwhile structure which embodied features both of a temple and a mosque.

While, the distinctive architectural elements overlapped they were yet easily

recognisable. They were symbols of a syncretic culture. Specific sculptured finds

such as the black Kasauti stone pillars along with the presence of the figurines of

Varah, Garud, Jai and Vijay suggest that they were primarily meant for decoration

of a Hindu temple facade and served as deities to be worshipped. At the same

time, the distinctive appearance of a mosque emerged from the three domes, the 881 PART O

Vazoo, the stone inscription with ‗Allah‘, the mimbar and the mehrab. These

features indicate that the disputed premise was constructed as a mosque. Within

the premises of the same complex there existed two religious faiths. Their co-

existence was at times, especially before 1856, accepting and at others,

antagonistic and a cause of bloodshed. Yet, the distinctive features of the site,

embodying both Hindu and Islamic traditions led to the creation of a space with

an identity of its own. The real significance attached to the composite structure is

evidenced by the nature and the length of use by both of the parties. 770. The accounts from travellers (chiefly Tieffenthaler and Montgomery

Martin) corroborated by both Hindu and Muslim witnesses indicate identifiable

places of offering worship and the prevalence of worship by Hindu pilgrims at the

disputed site. The setting up of a railing in 1858 by the British around the

disputed structure of the mosque took place in the backdrop of a contestation

over the claim of the Hindus to worship inside the precincts of the mosque. One

of the earliest instances evidencing namaz being carried out at the disputed site

is documented in an application dated 5 November 1860, filed by one Rajab Ali

for removal of the construction of the Hindu Chabutra. The application indicated

that the Azaan of the Moazzin was met with the blowing of conch shells by the

Hindus. The railing which comprised of a brick grill-wall was neither a sub-division

of the disputed site, which was one composite property, or a determination of title

by the colonial administration. This is evident from - (i) the immediate setting up

of the Ramchabutra by the Hindus right outside three domed structure upon the

setting up of the railing; (ii) the continued assertion of rights to the inner courtyard 882 PART O

by Hindus; and (iii) offering of worship by devotees towards the ‗Garbh Grih‘

standing outside the railing. The construction of Ramchabutra and the worship

offered there was an event which coincided with the setting up of the railing. The

railing was an effort to maintain peace at the site. However, peace remained

elusive. 771. The oral witness accounts of the Hindus show their faith and belief that the

‗Garbh-Grih‘ was the birth-place of Lord Ram and the existence of long continued

worship by the Hindus at the disputed site. As regards namaz within the disputed

site, the evidence on record of the Muslim witnesses, indicates that post 1934

namaz was being offered until 16 December 1949. However, the extent of namaz

would appear to have been confined to Friday namaz particularly in the period

preceding the events of December 1949. Both Hindu and Muslim witnesses state

that active measures were being taken by the Sadhus and Bairagis to prevent the

Muslims from approaching the disputed premises and from offering prayers. This

primarily shows that the disputed site witnessed use by worshippers of both the

faiths. Obstructing Muslims from accessing the mosque did not mean that they

had had no claim to or had abandoned the disputed site. However, it needs to be

remembered that the present case relates to title or ownership of this composite

place of worship. In the absence of historical records with respect to ownership or

title, the court has to determine the nature and use of the disputed premises as a

whole by either of the parties. In determining the nature of use, the court has to

factor in the length and extent of use. 883 PART O 772. In assessing the title of the Muslims, the physical structure of the mosque

is one fact to be taken into consideration. But a claim to possessory title has to be

based on exclusive and unimpeded possession which has to be established by

evidence. As shown above, the disputed premises are characterised by distinct

architectural characteristics of Hindu and Islamic cultures. The claim to title will

have to be judged from the perspective of long and continued possession. It

becomes relevant to note the extent to which the Muslims have asserted their

claim to the entirety of the property, which forms a composite whole, comprised

of the inner and outer courtyards in comparison with the contesting claims of the

Hindus. In relation to the outer courtyard, both Hindu and Muslim witnesses have

admitted the presence of the Ramchabutra and other places of religious

significance which were being continuously worshipped by the Hindus. The

access of Hindus to and their possession of the outer courtyard was unimpeded. 773. Despite the setting up of the grill-brick wall in 1857, the Hindus never

accepted the division of the inner and the outer courtyard. For the Hindus, the

entire complex as a whole was of religious significance. A demarcation by the

British for the purposes of maintaining law and order did not obliterate their belief

in the relevance of the ‗Garbh-Grih‘ being the birth-place of Lord Ram. This is

evident from the witness testimonies which indicate that pilgrims offered prayer

standing at the railing by looking towards the sanctum sanctorum. Another

relevant piece of evidence is the admission of the Moazzin of the Babri Mosque

in his complaint dated 30 November 1858 against Nihang Singh. The Moazzin

admitted that previously the symbol of Janamsthan had been there for hundreds 884 PART O

of years and Hindus did puja inside the three domed structure. Absent any

division of the site, the Hindus had multiple points and forms of worship within

the disputed premises which included the Ramchabutra and Sita Rasoi and the

parikrama of the disputed premises. Even after the railing was set up, Hindu

worship at Ramchabutra, Sita Rasoi and of the idols placed below the fig and

neem tree clearly indicated their exclusive and unimpeded possession of the

outer courtyard. All the evidence indicates that a reasonable inference based on

a preponderance of probabilities can be made that there was continuum of faith

and belief of the Hindus that the ‗Garbh-Grih‘ was the place of birth of Lord Ram

both prior to and after the construction of the wall. The use of the area within the

railing by the Muslims was contentious and their access to the inner courtyard

was landlocked; the only access being through the two gates to the outer portion

and the area which were in the control of the Hindus.

O.15 Analysis of evidence in Suit 4 774. The case of the plaintiffs in Suit 4 is that upon its construction at the behest

of Babur in 1528, there was a dedication of the mosque for the purpose of

worship by Muslims. With respect to title, no documentary evidence exists or has

been adduced for the period prior to 1860. Before the High Court, as noticed

earlier submissions proceeded on the basis that there was no evidence either in

regard to possession or the offering of namaz prior to 1860 or at any rate before

1856-7. The evidence which has been adduced, must be analysed bearing in 885 PART O

mind the fundamental principle of law that revenue records do not confer title. In Jattu Ram v Hakam Singh396 , a two judge Bench held: 775. No documentary evidence has been brought on the record indicating the

conferment of title in a form of the grant of the land underlying the mosque. The

documentary evidence on which reliance has been placed essentially consists of

grants which were made by the British Government for the upkeep and

maintenance of the mosque. These grants are stated to be in continuation of

those which have been made previously prior to the annexation of Oudh by the

colonial government. The register Mafiat which bears government orders dated

13 March 1860 and 29 June 1860 has been noticed in the judgment of Justice

Sudhir Agarwal as a document which is torn and the contents of which were not

legible. The grant for the upkeep and maintenance of the mosque was ―so long 396 (1993) 4 SCC 403 397 (2007) 6 SCC 186 886 PART O

the masjid is kept up and the Mohammedans conduct themselves properly.‖ This

document even if it is accepted as authentic indicates a grant for specific

purposes and does not confer the title to the disputed land. The register of

enquiry dated 14 March 1860 contains certain details of a rent-free grant and is

stated to be ―based on testimonies‖. However, it shows that ―the year and date

are not known‖. As regards the date of the grant, it has been stated to be of ―no

knowledge‖. There is a reference in the register to an enquiry into the rent-free

land (which) began in the year 1264 Fasli when riots broke out. The reference to

1264 Fasli corresponds to 1856-7 A.D. While the name of the donor is stated to

be Babur, this account is based on testimony. Register no. 6(e) – conditional

exemption dated 29 June 1860-only indicates the names of individuals who were

holding the rent-free lands. 776. The next stage in the documentary evidence relates to the conversion of

the cash grant into the grant of revenue free land. As noted earlier, there is a

serious problem in regard to the lineage and this Court cannot proceed on the

basis of a claim made in the fourth generation with an unexplained break in the

intervening period of nearly 325 years. There is nothing to indicate that there was

any investigation into the correctness of the claim. Eventually, the cash payment

of Rs. 302.3.6 was commuted by the grant of lands in two villages in lieu of the

erstwhile payment. This is evidenced by the letter dated 25 August 1863 of the

Chief Commissioner Oudh to the Commissioner Faizabad Division and the order

dated 31 August 1863 of the Deputy Commissioner. The grant of 1870 states that

the cash nankar was being maintained so long as the assignee surrenders all the 887 PART O

previous sanads, titled deeds, and other documents relevant to the grant in

question. The Nakal Khasra Abadi of 1931 indicates that Arazi number 583 is Nazul land.

While it makes a reference to the Masjid Pokhta Waqf Ahde Shahi, it also adverts

to the Chabutra which is prominently known as the Janmabhumi. 777. The documentary evidence indicates that the riots of 1856-7 led to the

colonial government erecting a wall with railings to bifurcate the areas of worship: 778. In 1868, the Muslims alleged encroachment on the north western corner of

the Masjid which was held not to have been proved. In 1870, the Mutawalli

sought an order of eviction against a Faqir from the graveyard and complained of 889 PART O

certain encroachments around the trees. An order was passed thereon in August

1871, stating that the plaintiff had no right of ownership over the graveyard in the

courtyard in front of the door of the Masjid. In 1873, there appears to have been a

dispute in regard to the placing of an idol on the chabutra. 779. In April 1877, the grant of permission by the Deputy Commissioner for the

construction of a new gate on the northern side (in addition to the pre-existing

gate on the eastern side) again led to a dispute. The creation of an additional

entry was justified by the Deputy Commissioner to safeguard human safety since

it appears that there was a rush of devotees. The complaint of the Muslims was

dismissed and the opening of an additional door on the northern side was

justified as being in the interest of public safety. 780. When in November 1883, the Mutawalli asserted the right to have the wall

of the mosque painted, the Assistant Commissioner, while restricting Raghubar

Das from carrying out repairs in the inner and outer part of the compound

directed the Mutawalli not to lock the outer door of the mosque on the ground that

the old existing orders must be complied with. The course of the disputes

between 1858 and 1883 thus indicates that the setting up of the railing as a

measure of allowing Muslim worship inside to the railing and exclusion of Hindus

from worshipping in the inner courtyard was a matter of continuing dispute. The

Muslims on their part had complained of the setting up of the chabutra. However,

the activities of the Hindus in the outer courtyard continued and an important

indicator of the presence of Hindu devotees in large number was the opening of

an additional door in 1877. As regards the inner courtyard, it is evident this was a 890 PART O

matter of contestation between Hindus and Muslims, the Muslims asserting it to

be a place of worship and the Hindus periodically contesting it by seeking entry

as they had obtained prior to the setting up of the railing. The riot of 1934 resulted

in a considerable damage being caused to the domes of the mosque and led to

the imposition of fines on the Hindus and Bairagis. The work of restoration was

carried out at the cost of the British Government by a Muslim contractor. This

coupled with the documentary evidence pertaining to the arrears of salary of the

Pesh Imam would indicate that post 1934 there was no abandonment by the

Muslims of the mosque as a place for offering namaz. This would have continued

until 1949 though, as the Waqf Inspector notes in his report dated 12 December

1949, Muslims who went to pray in the mosque were being harassed by the

Hindus in the outer courtyard where many of them resided. Eventually, the events

immediately preceding the intervening night of 22/23 December 1949 led to the

placement of the idols on the pulpit below the central dome of the mosque. 781. From the documentary evidence, it emerges that: PART O (iv) Despite the existence of the railing, the exclusion of the Hindus from the

 inner courtyard was a matter of contestation and at the very least was not

 absolute; (v) As regards the outer courtyard it became the focal point of Hindu worship

 both on the Ramchabutra as well as other religious structures within the

 outer courtyard including Sita Rasoi. Though, the Hindus continued to

 worship at the Ramchabutra which was in the outer courtyard, by the

 consistent pattern of their worship including the making of offerings to the

 ‗Garbh Grih‘ while standing at the railing, there can be no manner of doubt

 that this was in furtherance of their belief that the birth-place of Lord Ram

 was within the precincts of and under the central dome of the mosque; and (vi) The riots of 1934 and the events which led up to 22/23 December 1949

 indicate that possession over the inner courtyard was a matter of serious

 contestation often leading to violence by both parties and the Muslims did

 not have exclusive possession over the inner courtyard. From the above

 documentary evidence, it cannot be said that the Muslims have been able

 to establish their possessory title to the disputed site as a composite

 whole. O.16 The Muslim claim to possessory title 782. Dr Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the

plaintiffs in Suit 4, urged submissions on the effect of the existence and

destruction of a temple on the title asserted by the Sunni Central Waqf Board.

The submissions of Dr Dhavan have been formulated thus: 892 Buttressing the submissions on the law pertaining to title, Dr Dhavan commended

following propositions for acceptance by the court: PART O (iv) The burden of proof is upon the person who asserts possession without

 title, particularly having regard to the provisions of Section 110 of the

 Evidence Act; (v) If a person concedes or acts in a manner that indicates a lack of

 possession and performs of an act or makes an omission, this will amount

 to estoppel under Section 115 of the Evidence Act; (vi) Possession is sustained by animus possidendi; and (vii) The absence of a prayer or lesser prayer would not result in a loss of title

 and title can be lost only on adverse possession beyond limitation;

In sum and substance, the basis of the claim of title, as alleged before this Court

by Dr Dhavan can be formulated thus: and (c) Acceptance, during the course of the arguments by the plaintiffs of

 Suit 5, that namaz was offered in the mosque until 16 December

 1949; (vi) The rights which the Hindus claim are based purely on illegal acts: PART O 783. This limb of the submission of Dr Dhavan is essentially founded on

possessory title. In the earlier analysis on the claim of an independent title, it has

been found that the Muslims have been unable to establish a specific grant of the

land underlying the mosque as a foundation of legal title during Muslims rule or

upon the transfer of power to the colonial administration after 1857. The

documentary evidence which has been relied upon consists of revenue records

pertaining to grants for the upkeep and maintenance of the mosque. Dr Dhavan

has however urged for the acceptance of the claim of the Muslims that they were

in possession of the inner and outer courtyard and the continuous nature of that

possession creates a presumption of title which the Hindus cannot displace. 784. Section 110 of the Evidence Act 1872 provides thus: 785. Several decisions of this Court have interpreted the provisions of Section 110. Section 110 is based on the principle that possession in and of itself may

raise a presumption of title. But this applies when the facts disclose no title in

either of the disputants in which case, as it is said, possession alone decides.

Hence, on the other hand, it is also well-settled that the presumption cannot be

arise when the facts are known. In Nair Service Society Ltd. v K C Alexander398, Justice M Hidayatullah (as the

learned Chief Justice then was) speaking for a three judge Bench of this Court

held: Even, a revenue record is not a document of title. It merely
 raises a presumption in regard to possession. Presumption of
 possession and/or continuity thereof, both forward and
 backward, can also be raised under Section 110 of the
 Evidence Act.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

In assessing this limb of the submission on the applicability of Section 110 the

crucial test is whether the disputed site represents ―anything of which‖ the Muslim

parties are ―shown to be in possession‖. Unless the ‗shown to be in possession‘

requirement is fulfilled, the presumption would not arise and there would be no

question of placing the burden of establishing that the plaintiffs in Suit 4 are not

the owners on the contesting Hindu parties. Analysis on the Muslim claim of possession 786. The case of the plaintiffs in Suit 4 has to be evaluated on the basis of the

entirety of the evidence on the record to deduce whether possession has been

established on a preponderance of probabilities. The evidence reveals several

significant features which must be noted: Tieffenthaler specifically refers to Hindu places of worship including Sita

 Rasoi, Swargdwar and the Bedi or cradle symbolising the birth of Lord

 Ram. The account refers to religious festivals where during the course of

 which Hindu devotees would throng for worship. Tieffenthaler‘s account in

 the eighteenth century is prior to the construction of the grill–brick wall in

 front of the mosque. Tieffenthaler refers to ―a square box raised 5 inches

 above the ground with borders made of lime with the length of more than 5

 ells and the maximum width of 4 ells‖, which the Hindus called the Bedi or

 cradle. This, as he notes, was the site of the house where Lord Vishnu was

 born in the form of the Lord Ram. This, as he notes, is where it was

 believed that either Aurangzeb or (according to others) Babur got the place

 razed. Tieffenthaler, however, noted that in the place where the ―native 900 PART O

 house‖ of Lord Ram existed the Hindus circumambulate three times and

 prostrate on the floor. This account of Tieffenthaler refers to a focal point of

 worship namely the birth-place of Lord Ram around which worship took

 place and the Hindus circumambulated and prostrated; (iv) The communal riots that took place in 1856-7 resulted in the colonial

 administration setting up a grill-brick wall to bring about a measure of

 peace between the conflicting claims of the two communities. The

 immediate aftermath of the railing led to the dispute over the Ramchabutra,

 which was erected right outside the railing and from where the Hindus

 sought to offer worship to Lord Ram. The time of the setting up of the

 Chabutra, the place of its location and the offer of worship to Lord Ram on

 Chabutra are pointers in the direction of the Hindus continuing to offer

 worship immediately outside the railing when faced with a possible

 exclusion from the inner courtyard; (v) The construction of the grill-brick wall during the colonial administration did

 not constitute any determination of title as between the Hindus and the

 Muslims but was a measure intended to maintain public peace and safety

 having regard to the incidents which had taken place in 1856-7 resulting in

 a loss of life; (vi) That the setting up of a buffer in the form of the grill-brick wall did not

 amount to an absolute exclusion appears from sporadic incidents such as

 the incident involving the setting up of a flag and the performance of

 hawan and puja by the Nihang Singh within the precincts of the mosque. 901 PART O

 Nihang Singh was evicted following the intervention of the authorities of

 the state; (vii) Until 1877, there was only one entry through which access could be gained

 to the inner courtyard which was the door on the eastern side called

 Hanumat Dwar. On gaining entry, the Hindus had several places of

 worship such as the Ramchabutra and Sita Rasoi as well as the Bhandar

 which indicated that insofar as the outer courtyard is concerned, the

 Hindus were in settled possession; (viii) The opening of an additional door on the northern side which came to be

 known as Singh Dwar was warranted as a measure to ensure the safe

 passage of a large number of pilgrims who entered the premises to offer

 worship. Objections to the opening of Singh Dwar were dealt with and

 resulted in their rejection as a consequence of which the opening of an

 additional door providing access became an established fact; (ix) Disputes between the Hindus and the Muslims continued to persist,

 indicating the litigious nature of the respective claims, in respect of the

 inner courtyard; (x) In 1934, there was yet another communal riot during the course of which

 the domed structure of the mosque was damaged. This led to the

 imposition of a fine on the Hindu residents of Ayodhya and the work of

 restoration being carried out at the expense of the colonial administration

 through a Muslim contractor. This indicates that while the Hindus had

 continued to offer worship continuously in the outer courtyard, there was

 no abandonment of the claim by the Muslims of the status of the structure 902 PART O

 inside the inner courtyard as a mosque. After 1934, there is documentary

 material to indicate that arrangements were made for the appointment of a

 Pesh Imam and Mutawalli for the mosque which would belie the notion that

 there was an abandonment of the mosque; (xi) After 1934, evidence indicates that Muslim worship in the form of namaz

 had reduced as a result of the obstructions in their access to the inner

 courtyard. By 16 December 1949 (the last Friday namaz) the mosque was

 being used for the purposes of Friday namaz. The circumstances bearing

 upon the restoration of the damage which was done to the mosque in

 1934, availing of the services of the Pesh Imam and the offering of namaz

 albeit to a reduced extent are circumstances which point to a reasonable

 inference that there was no total ouster of the Muslims from the inner

 structure prior to 22/23 December 1949 though their access was

 intermittent and interrupted; and (xii) On 22/23 December 1949, idols were installed below the central dome of

 the inner structure which, according to the Muslims, led to the desecration

 of the mosque. Prior to this, the last namaz was offered on Friday, 16

 December 1949. The Friday namaz due on 23 December 1949 could not

 be offered due to the intervening desecration of the mosque.

The Sunni Central Waqf Board‘s case of possession to attract the applicability of Section 110 of the Evidence Act must therefore be assessed from two

perspectives: First, insofar as the outer courtyard is concerned, it is impossible to

accept on the basis of a preponderance of probabilities that the Muslims were in 903 PART O

possession. On the contrary, the establishment of Hindu places of worship in the

outer courtyard clearly belies such a claim. Second, insofar as the inner courtyard

is concerned, the claim of the Muslims must necessarily be assessed with

reference to various time periods namely (i) prior to 1856; (ii) between 1856 and

1934; and (iii) after 1934. 787. The Muslim account of worship prior to 1856 is conspicuously silent as

opposed to the accounts of worship being offered by the Hindus. Post the setting

up of the wall and railing, it is evident that there were obstructions which arose in

the continued worship of the Muslims in the inner courtyard which is evidenced

by numerous proceedings as well as by the riots of 1934. Yet, the manner in

which the restoration of the mosque took place after the riots and the

arrangements in particular for the services of the Pesh Imam indicate that the

obstruction notwithstanding, some form of namaz continued to be offered in the

mosque until 16 December 1949. While, as the Waqf Inspector indicated, the

process of namaz was being obstructed and the worshippers were harassed,

there is no evidence to show the abandonment of the claims by the Muslims. In

fact, the documentary and oral evidence indicates that Friday namaz was

intermittently being offered until 16 December 1949. Though, the claim of the

Muslims over the inner courtyard was not abandoned, yet as the evidence

indicates, this was a matter of contestation and dispute. 788. A stage has now been reached to marshal together the evidence on the

claim of title in Suit 4 and Suit 5 to pave the way for the ultimate determination of

the relief to be granted. I The report of the ASI indicates the following position: existing underlying structure dating back to the twelfth century. The

 structure has large dimensions, evident from the fact that there were

 85 pillar bases comprised in 17 rows each of five pillar bases; (iii) On a preponderance of probabilities, the archaeological findings on

 the nature of the underlying structure indicate it to be of Hindu

 religious origin, dating to twelfth century A.D.; (iv) The mosque in dispute was constructed upon the foundation of the

 pre-existing structure. The construction of the mosque has taken

 place in such a manner as to obviate an independent foundation by

 utilising the walls of the pre-existing structure; and (v) The layered excavation at the site of excavation has also revealed

 the existence of a circular shrine together with a makara pranala 905 PART P

 indicative of Hindu worship dating back to the eighth to tenth

 century. A reasonable inference can be drawn on the basis of the standard of proof which

governs civil trials that: II The conclusion in the ASI report about the remains of an underlying

structure of a Hindu religious origin symbolic of temple architecture of the twelfth

century A.D. must however be read contextually with the following caveats: existing structure, the report does not provide: PART P

 No evidence is available to explain what transpired in the course of

 the intervening period of nearly four centuries; (iii) The ASI report does not conclude that the remnants of the pre- existing structure were used for the purpose of constructing the

 mosque (apart, that is, from the construction of the mosque on the

 foundation of the erstwhile structure); and (iv) The pillars that were used in the construction of the mosque were

 black Kasauti stone pillars. ASI has found no evidence to show that

 these Kasauti pillars are relatable to the underlying pillar bases

 found during the course of excavation in the structure below the

 mosque. III A finding of title cannot be based in law on the archaeological findings

which have been arrived at by ASI. Between the twelfth century to which the

underlying structure is dated and the construction of the mosque in the sixteenth

century, there is an intervening period of four centuries. No evidence has been

placed on the record in relation to the course of human history between the

twelfth and sixteen centuries. No evidence is available in a case of this antiquity

on (i) the cause of destruction of the underlying structure; and (ii) whether the

pre-existing structure was demolished for the construction of the mosque. Title to

the land must be decided on settled legal principles and applying evidentiary

standards which govern a civil trial. IV Historical records of travellers (chiefly Tieffenthaler and the account of

Montgomery Martin in the eighteenth century) indicate: 907 Beyond the above observations, the accounts of the travellers must be read with

circumspection. Their personal observations must carefully be sifted from

hearsay – matters of legend and lore. Consulting their accounts on matters of

public history is distinct from evidence on a matter of title. An adjudication of title

has to be deduced on the basis of evidence sustainable in a court of law, which

has withstood the searching scrutiny of cross-examination. Similarly, the contents

of gazetteers can at best provide corroborative material to evidence which

emerges from the record. The court must be circumspect in drawing negative

inferences from what a traveller may not have seen or observed. Title cannot be

established on the basis of faith and belief above. Faith and belief are indicators

towards patterns of worship at the site on the basis of which claims of possession

are asserted. The court has evaluated the rival claims to possessory title in a 908 PART P

situation in which the state has expressly stated in its written statement that it

claims no interest in the land. V The evidence indicates that despite the existence of a mosque at the site,

Hindu worship at the place believed to be the birth-place of Lord Ram was not

restricted. The existence of an Islamic structure at a place considered sacrosanct

by the Hindus did not stop them from continuing their worship at the disputed site

and within the precincts of the structure prior to the incidents of 1856-7. The

physical structure of an Islamic mosque did not shake the faith and belief of

Hindus that Lord Ram was born at the disputed site. On the other hand, learned

counsel fairly stated that the evidence relied on by the Sunni Central Waqf Board

to establish the offering of namaz by the Muslim residents commences from

around 1856-7; VI The setting up of a railing in 1857 by the British around the disputed

structure of the mosque took place in the backdrop of a contestation and disputes

over the claim of the Hindus to worship inside the precincts of the mosque. This

furnished the context for the riots which took place between Hindus and Muslims

in 1856-7. The construction of a grick-brick wall by the colonial administration

was intended to ensure peace between the two communities with respect to a

contested place of worship. The grill-brick wall did not constitute either a sub-

division of the disputed site which was one composite property, nor did it amount

to a determination of title by the colonial administration;

VII Proximate in time after the setting up of the railing, the Ramchabutra was

set up in or about 1857. Ramchabutra was set up in close physical proximity to 909 PART P

the railing. Essentially, the setting up of Ramchabutra within a hundred feet or

thereabouts of the inner dome must be seen in the historical context as an

expression or assertion of the Hindu right to worship at the birth-place of Lord

Ram. Even after the construction of the dividing wall by the British, the Hindus

continued to assert their right to pray below the central dome. This emerges from

the evidentiary record indicating acts of individuals in trying to set up idols and

perform puja both within and outside the precincts of the inner courtyard. Even

after the setting up of the Ramchabutra, pilgrims used to pay obeisance and

make offerings to what they believed to be the ‗Garbh Grih‘ located inside the

three domed structure while standing at the iron railing which divided the inner

and outer courtyards. There is no evidence to the contrary by the Muslims to

indicate that their possession of the disputed structure of the mosque was

exclusive and that the offering of namaz was exclusionary of the Hindus;

VIII Hindu worship at Ramchabutra, Sita Rasoi and at other religious places

including the setting up of a Bhandar clearly indicated their open, exclusive and

unimpeded possession of the outer courtyard. The Muslims have not been in

possession of the outer courtyard. Despite the construction of the wall in 1858 by

the British and the setting up of the Ramchabutra in close-proximity of the inner

dome, Hindus continued to assert their right to pray inside the three-domed

structure; IX In or about 1877, at the behest of the Hindus, another door to the outer

courtyard was allowed to be opened by the administration on the northern side

(Sing Dwar), in addition to the existing door on the east (Hanumat Dwar). The 910 PART P

Deputy Commissioner declined to entertain a complaint against the opening

made in the wall. The Commissioner while dismissing the appeal held that the

opening up of the door was in public interest. The opening of an additional door

with the permission of the British administration indicates recognition of the

presence of a large congregation of Hindu devotees necessitating additional

access to the site in the interest of public peace and safety;

X Testimonies of both Hindu and Muslim witnesses indicate that on religious

occasions and festivals such as Ram Navami, Sawan Jhoola, Kartik Poornima,

Parikrama Mela and Ram Vivah, large congregations of Hindu devotees visited

the disputed premises for darshan. The oral testimony of the Hindu devotees

establishes the pattern of worship and prayer at Sita Rasoi, Ramchabutra and

towards the ‗Garb Grih‘, while standing at the railing of the structure of the brick

wall; XI Hindu witnesses have indicated that Hindus used to offer prayer to the

Kasauti stone pillars placed inside the mosque. Muslim witnesses have

acknowledged the presence of symbols of Hindu religious significance both

inside and outside the mosque. Among them, is the depiction of Varah, Jai-Vijay

and Garud outside the three domed structure. They are suggestive not merely of

the existence of the faith and belief but of actual worship down the centuries;

XII There can no denying the existence of the structure of the mosque since

its construction in the sixteenth century with the inscription of ‗Allah‘ on the

structure. The genesis of the communal incident of 1856-7 lies in the contestation

between the two communities over worship. The setting up of the railing in 1856- 911 PART P

7 was an attempt by the administration to provide a measure of bifurcation to

observe religious worship – namaz by the Muslims inside the railing within the

domed structure of the mosque and worship by the Hindus outside the railing.

Attempts by the Sikhs or faqirs to enter into the mosque and set up religious

symbols for puja were resisted by the Muslims, resulting in the administration

evicting the occupier; XIII After the construction of the grill-brick wall in 1857, there is evidence on

record to show the exclusive and unimpeded possession of the Hindus and the

offering of worship in the outer courtyard. Entry into the three domed structure

was possible only by seeking access through either of the two doors on the

eastern and northern sides of the outer courtyard which were under the control of

the Hindu devotees; XIV On a preponderance of probabilities, there is no evidence to establish that

the Muslims abandoned the mosque or ceased to perform namaz in spite of the

contestation over their possession of the inner courtyard after 1858. Oral

evidence indicates the continuation of namaz; XV The contestation over the possession of the inner courtyard became the

centre of the communal conflict of 1934 during the course of which the domes of

the mosque sustained damage as did the structure. The repair and renovation of

the mosque following the riots of 1934 at the expense of the British administration

through the agency of a Muslim contractor is indicative of the fact the despite the

disputes between the two communities, the structure of the mosque continued to

exist as did the assertion of the Muslims of their right to pray. Namaz appears to 912 PART P

have been offered within the mosque after 1934 though, by the time of incident of

22/23 December 1949, only Friday namaz was being offered. The reports of the

Waqf Inspector of December 1949 indicate that the Sadhus and Bairagis who

worshipped and resided in the outer courtyard obstructed Muslims from passing

through the courtyard, which was under their control, for namaz within the

mosque. Hence the Waqf Inspector noted that worship within the mosque was

possible on Fridays with the assistance of the police;

XVI The events preceding 22/23 December 1949 indicate the build-up of a

large presence of Bairagis in the outer courtyard and the expression of his

apprehension by the Superintendent of Police that the Hindus would seek forcible

entry into the precincts of the mosque to install idols. In spite of written

intimations to him, the Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate (K K Nayyar)

paid no heed and rejected the apprehension of the Superintendent of Police to

the safety of the mosque as baseless. The apprehension was borne out by the

incident which took place on the night between 22/23 December 1949, when a

group of fifty to sixty persons installed idols on the pulpit of the mosque below the

central dome. This led to the desecration of the mosque and the ouster of the

Muslims otherwise than by the due process of law. The inner courtyard was

thereafter attached in proceedings under Section 145 CrPC 1898 on 29

December 1949 and the receiver took possession; XVII On 6 December 1992, the structure of the mosque was brought down and

the mosque was destroyed. The destruction of the mosque took place in breach

of the order of status quo and an assurance given to this Court. The destruction 913 PART P

of the mosque and the obliteration of the Islamic structure was an egregious

violation of the rule of law; XVIII The net result, as it emerges from the evidentiary record is thus: and (viii) Consistent with the principles of justice, equity and good

 conscience, both Suits 4 and 5 will have to be decreed and the relief

 moulded in a manner which preserves the constitutional values of

 justice, fraternity, human dignity and the equality of religious belief.

XVIII The Hindus have established a clear case of a possessory title to the

outside courtyard by virtue of long, continued and unimpeded worship at the

Ramchabutra and other objects of religious signficance. The Hindus and the

Muslims have contested claims to the offering worship within the three domed

structure in the inner courtyard. The assertion by the Hindus of their entitlement

to offer worship inside has been contested by the Muslims.

Legality of the decree for partition by the High Court 789. The High Court on a finding that Hindus and Muslims were in joint

possession directed a three-way bifurcation of the disputed site, one third each

being assigned to the Muslims, Hindus and Nirmohi Akhara. Justice S U Khan

held that title follows possession and based on the provisions of Section 110 of

the Evidence Act came to the conclusion that the disputed site should be equally

distributed between the three parties. Justice Sudhir Agarwal held that the area

under the central dome of the disputed structure is believed to be and

worshipped by the Hindus as the place of birth of Lord Ram. This part of the land,

he held, constitutes the deity called ‗Sri Ramjanmsthan‘ which has specific 915 PART P

significance to the Hindus. Insofar as the other land within the inner courtyard is

concerned, Justice Agarwal held that it has been continuously used by members

of both communities for prayer and worship, noticing that the prayer for relief in

Suit 5 had been ―worded in a manner showing that the same has not been asked

from the Court but has been left to the discretion of the Court if it finds expedient‖.

Justice Agarwal held that in order to do complete justice and to avoid a

multiplicity of litigation, it was open to the court to mould the relief under Order VII

Rule 7 of the CPC . Justice Agarwal therefore also joined in directing a three-way

bifurcation in terms of a preliminary decree. Justice D V Sharma, decreed Suit 5

in its entirety. 790. Mr K Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel, appearing for the plaintiffs in Suit

5, argued that in attempting to mould the relief ―to do complete justice‖, the High

Court assumed a jurisdiction which did not vest in it; such a power, it was urged,

lies in the exclusive jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution. 791. In assessing the correctness of the decree of the High Court, it must be

noted at the outset that the High Court was not seized of a suit for partition. In a

suit for partition, it is trite law that every party is both a plaintiff and defendant.

The High Court was hearing: (i) a suit by a worshipper seeking the enforcement

of the right to pray (Suit 1); (ii) a suit by Nirmohi Akhara asserting shebaiti rights

to the management and charge of the temple (Suit 3); (iii) a declaratory suit on

title by the Sunni Central Waqf Board and Muslims (Suit 4); and (iv) a suit for a

declaration on behalf of the Hindu deities in which an injunction has also been

sought restraining any obstruction with the construction of a temple (Suit 5). The 916 PART P

High Court was called upon to decide the question of title particularly in the

declaratory suits, Suits 4 and 5. 792. In Srinivas Ram Kumar v Mahabir Prasad402 , a three judge Bench of this

Court held that it is not open to the court to grant relief to the plaintiff on a case

for which there is no basis in the pleadings. Justice B K Mukherjea held: 793. As Justice S B Sinha held while speaking for a two judge Bench of this

Court in Shiv Kumar Sharma v Santosh Kumari404 : 794. There is another serious flaw in the entire approach of the High Court in

granting relief of a three-way bifurcation of the disputed site. Having come to the

conclusion that Suit 3 (filed by Nirmohi Akhara) and Suit 4 (filed by Sunni Central

Waqf Board) were barred by limitation, the High Court proceeded to grant relief in

Suit 5 to the plaintiffs in Suits 3 and 4. This defies logic and is contrary to settled

principles of law. Moreover, the claim by the Nirmohi Akhara was as a shebait

who claimed a decree for management and charge. On its own case, Nirmohi

Akhara could not have been granted an independent share of the land. By this

judgment, the finding of the High Court that the suit of Nirmohi Akhara was barred

by limitation has been upheld but the finding in regard to the bar of limitation

being attracted to Suit 4 has been reversed. This aspect will be dealt with while

analysing the final relief which will be granted. 919 PART P

P.2 Conclusion on title 795. The facts, evidence and oral arguments of the present case have

traversed the realms of history, archaeology, religion and the law. The law must

stand apart from political contestations over history, ideology and religion. For a

case replete with references to archaeological foundations, we must remember

that it is the law which provides the edifice upon which our multicultural society

rests. The law forms the ground upon which, multiple strands of history, ideology

and religion can compete. By determining their limits, this Court as the final

arbiter must preserve the sense of balance that the beliefs of one citizen do not

interfere with or dominate the freedoms and beliefs of another. On 15 August

1947, India as a nation realised the vision of self-determination. On 26 January

1950 we gave ourselves the Constitution of India, as an unwavering commitment

to the values which define our society. At the heart of the Constitution is a

commitment to equality upheld and enforced by the rule of law. Under our

Constitution, citizens of all faiths, beliefs and creeds seeking divine provenance

are both subject to the law and equal before the law. Every judge of this Court is

not merely tasked with but sworn to uphold the Constitution and its values. The

Constitution does not make a distinction between the faith and belief of one

religion and another. All forms of belief, worship and prayer are equal. Those

whose duty it is to interpret the Constitution, enforce it and engage with it can

ignore this only to the peril of our society and nation. The Constitution speaks to

the judges who interpret it, to those who govern who must enforce it, but above

all, to the citizens who engage with it as an inseparable feature of their lives. 920 PART P 796. In the present case, this Court is tasked with an adjudicatory task of unique

dimension. The dispute is over immovable property. The court does not decide

title on the basis of faith or belief but on the basis of evidence. The law provides

us with parameters as clear but as profound as ownership and possession. In

deciding title to the disputed property, the court applies settled principles of

evidence to adjudicate upon which party has established a claim to the

immovable property. 797. On the balance of probabilities, there is clear evidence to indicate that the

worship by the Hindus in the outer courtyard continued unimpeded in spite of the

setting up of a grill-brick wall in 1857. Their possession of the outer courtyard

stands established together with the incidents attaching to their control over it. 798. As regards the inner courtyard, there is evidence on a preponderance of

probabilities to establish worship by the Hindus prior to the annexation of Oudh

by the British in 1857. The Muslims have offered no evidence to indicate that they

were in exclusive possession of the inner structure prior to 1857 since the date of

the construction in the sixteenth century. After the setting up of the grill-brick wall,

the structure of the mosque continued to exist and there is evidence to indicate

that namaz was offered within its precincts. The report of the Waqf Inspector of

December 1949 indicates that Muslims were being obstructed in free and

unimpeded access to mosque for the purposes of offering namaz. However,

there is evidence to show that namaz was offered in the structure of the mosque

and the last Friday namaz was on 16 December 1949. The exclusion of the

Muslims from worship and possession took place on the intervening night 921 PART P

between 22/23 December 1949 when the mosque was desecrated by the

installation of Hindu idols. The ouster of the Muslims on that occasion was not

through any lawful authority but through an act which was calculated to deprive

them of their place of worship. After the proceedings under Section 145 of CrPC

1898 were initiated and a receiver was appointed following the attachment of the

inner courtyard, worship of the Hindu idols was permitted. During the pendency of

the suits, the entire structure of the mosque was brought down in a calculated act

of destroying a place of public worship. The Muslims have been wrongly deprived

of a mosque which had been constructed well over 450 years ago. 799. We have already concluded that the three-way bifurcation by the High

Court was legally unsustainable. Even as a matter of maintaining public peace

and tranquillity, the solution which commended itself to the High Court is not

feasible. The disputed site admeasures all of 1500 square yards. Dividing the

land will not subserve the interest of either of the parties or secure a lasting

sense of peace and tranquillity. 800. Suit 5 has been held to be maintainable at the behest of the first plaintiff

(the deity of Lord Ram) who is a juristic person. The third plaintiff (next friend) has

been held to be entitled to represent the the first plaintiff. We are of the view that

on the one hand a decree must ensue in Suit 5, Suit 4 must also be partly

decreed by directing the allotment of alternate land to the Muslims for the

construction of a mosque and associated activities. The allotment of land to the

Muslims is necessary because though on a balance of probabilities, the evidence 922 PART P

in respect of the possessory claim of the Hindus to the composite whole of the

disputed property stands on a better footing than the evidence adduced by the

Muslims, the Muslims were dispossessed upon the desecration of the mosque on

22/23 December 1949 which was ultimately destroyed on 6 December 1992.

There was no abandonment of the mosque by the Muslims. This Court in the

exercise of its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution must ensure that a

wrong committed must be remedied. Justice would not prevail if the Court were to

overlook the entitlement of the Muslims who have been deprived of the structure

of the mosque through means which should not have been employed in a secular

nation committed to the rule of law. The Constitution postulates the equality of all

faiths. Tolerance and mutual co-existnce nourish the secular commitment of our

nation and its people. 801. The area of the composite site admeasures about 1500 square yards.

While determining the area of land to be allotted, it is necessary to provide

restitution to the Muslim community for the unlawful destruction of their place of

worship. Having weighed the nature of the relief which should be granted to the

Muslims, we direct that land admeasuring 5 acres be allotted to the Sunni Central

Waqf Board either by the Central Government out of the acquired land or by the

Government of Uttar Pradesh within the city of Ayodhya. This exercise, and the

consequent handing over of the land to the Sunni Central Waqf Board, shall be

conducted simultaneously with the handing over of the disputed site comprising

of the inner and outer courtyards as a consequence of the decree in Suit 5. Suit 4

shall stand decreed in the above terms. 923 PART P 802. Section 6 of the Acquisition of Certain Area at Ayodhya Act 1993

empowers the Central Government to direct that the right, title and interest in

relation to the area or any part thereof, instead of continuing to vest in the Central

Government shall vest in the authority or body or trustees of any trust which is

willing to comply with the terms and conditions as government may impose.407 Section 7(1) provides that the property vested in the Central Government under Section 3 , shall be maintained by the government or by any person or trustees of

any trust, authorities in this behalf.408 803. We are of the view that it would be necessary to direct the Central

Government to frame a scheme in exercise of the powers conferred upon it by Sections 6 and 7 to set up a trust or any other appropriate mechanism to whom

the land would be handed over in terms of the decree in Suit 5. The scheme shall

incorporate all provisions necessary to vest power and authority in relation to the

management of the trust or the body chosen for the vesting of the land. 407 6. Power of Central Government to direct vesting of the area in another authority or body or trust.—(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in Sections 3 , 4 , 5 and 7 , the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that
any authority or other body, or trustees of any trust, set up on or after the commencement of this Act is or are
willing to comply with such terms and conditions as that Government may think fit to impose, direct by notification
in the Official Gazette, that the right, title and interest or any of them in reason to the area or any part thereof,
instead of continuing to vest in the Central Government, vest in that authority or body or trustees of that trust
either on the date of the notification or on such later date as may be specified in the notification.
(2) When any right, title and interest in relation to the area or part thereof vest in the authority or body or trustees
referred to in sub-section (1), such rights of the Central Government in relation to such area or part thereof, shall,
on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the rights of that authority or body or trustees
of that trust. (3) The provision of Sections 4 , 5 , 7 and 11 shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to such authority or body or
trustees as they apply in relation to the Central Government and for this purpose references therein to the Central
Government shall be construed as references to such authority or body or trustees. 408 7. Management of property by Government.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or
instrument or order of any court, tribunal or other authority to the contrary, on and from the commencement of
this Act, the property vested in the Central Government under Section 3 shall be managed by the Central
Government or by a person or body of persons or trustees of any trust authorised by that Government in this
behalf. (2) In managing the property vested in the Central Government under Section 3 , the Central Government or the
authorised person shall ensure that the position existing before the commencement of this Act in the area on
which the structure (including the premises of the inner and outer courtyards of such structure), commonly known
as the Ram Janma Bhumi-Babri Masjid stood in village Kot Ramchandra in Ayodhya, in Pargana Haveli Avadh, in
tehsil Faizabad Sadar, in the district of Faizabad of the State of Uttar Pradesh is maintained. 924 PART Q 804. Suit 3 filed by Nirmohi Akhara has been held to be barred by limitation. We

have also rejected the objection of Nirmohi Akhara and of the Sunni Central Waqf

Board to the maintainability of Suit 5 which was based on their plea that Nirmohi

Akhara is a shebait. Nirmohi Akhara‘s claim to be a shebait stands rejected.

However, having regard to the historical presence of Nirmohi Akhara at the

disputed site and their role, it is necessary for this Court to take recourse to its

powers under Article 142 to do complete justice. Hence, we direct that in framing

the scheme, an appropriate role in the management would be assigned to the

Nirmohi Akhara. Q. Reliefs and directions 805. We accordingly order and direct as follows: (ii) Suit 4 instituted by the Sunni Central Waqf Board and other plaintiffs

 is held to be within limitation. The judgment of the High Court

 holding Suit 4 to be barred by limitation is reversed; and (iii) Suit 5 is held to be within limitation. 2 Suit 5 is held to be maintainable at the behest of the first plaintiff who is

represented by the third plaintiff. There shall be a decree in terms of prayer

clauses (A) and (B) of the suit, subject to the following directions: 925 3 (i) Simultaneously, with the handing over of the disputed property to the Trust

 or body under clause 2 above, a suitable plot of land admeasuring 5 acres 926 PART Q

 shall be handed over to the Sunni Central Waqf Board, the plaintiff in Suit 4. (ii) The land shall be allotted either by: The Central Government and the State Government shall act in consultation with

each other to effectuate the above allotment in the period stipulated. (iii) The Sunni Central Waqf Board would be at liberty, on the allotment of the

 land to take all necessary steps for the construction of a mosque on the

 land so allotted together with other associated facilities; (iv) Suit 4 shall stand decreed to this extent in terms of the above directions; and (v) The directions for the allotment of land to the Sunni Central Waqf Board in

 Suit 4 are issued in pursuance of the powers vested in this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution. 4 In exercise of the powers vested in this Court under Article 142 of the

Constitution, we direct that in the scheme to be framed by the Central

Government, appropriate representation may be given in the Trust or body, to the

Nirmohi Akhara in such manner as the Central Government deems fit.

5 The right of the plaintiff in Suit 1 to worship at the disputed property is

affirmed subject to any restrictions imposed by the relevant authorities with 927 PART Q

respect to the maintenance of peace and order and the performance of orderly

worship. 806. All the appeals shall stand disposed of in the above terms. Parties are left

to bear their own costs. Acknowledgments

In crafting this judgment, the forensic contest before this Court has provided a

valuable insight in navigating through the layers of complexity of the case. The

erudition of counsel, their industry, vision and above all, dispassionate objectivity

in discharging their role as officers of the court must be commended. We

acknowledge the assistance rendered by Mr K Parasaran and Dr Rajeev Dhavan,

learned Senior Counsel who led the arguments. Their fairness to the cause which

they espouse and to their opponents as, indeed, to the court during the course of

the hearings has facilitated the completion of the hearings in the spirit that all

sides have ultimately been engaged in the search of truth and justice.

The other learned Senior Counsel whose efforts need to be acknowledged are: In Suit No.1 following was the relevant issue: parties also filed their written statement. 9. U.P. Sunni Central Board of Wakf (hereinafter

referred to as “Sunni Board”), Defendant No.10, filed

written statement pleading that building referred to in

paragraph 2 in the plaint is not place of Janma Bhumi

of Ram Chandra and plaintiff has no right and no Idols

of Ram Chandra were ever installed in the said building.

There is no question of any right and claim of the

 Page 4
plaintiff to perform Puja and Darshan. It was pleaded

that property in suit known as Babri Masjid and same

was constructed in the regime of emperor Babar. In the

additional pleas in paragraph 10 following was stated: 10. Plaintiff of Suit No.3 pleaded that Janma Asthan,

now, commonly known as Janma Bhumi, birth place of Ram

is situate in Ayodhya belonged to plaintiff No.1. The

said Asthan, the Janma Bhumi is of ancient antiquity

and has existed since before the living memory of man.

The Muslims, Defendant Nos.6 to 8 filed written

statement where it was pleaded that property against

which plaintiff has filed the suit is Babri Masjid built

by Babar Shah constructed in the year 1528 A.D. U.P.

Sunni Central Board of Wakf had also filed written

statement claiming the suit property as Mosque

constructed by emperor Babar in 1528 and existence of

any temple was denied. Page 5 11. A written statement was also filed by Defendant

No.10, Umesh Chandra Pandey. In his written statement

he has stated that Janma Asthan is holy place for

worshiping the Deity of Ram Lalla Virajman there. 12. In Suit No.4, the plaintiff pleaded that in the

town of Ayodhya there exists an ancient historic Mosque

commonly known as Babri Masjid built by emperor Babar

more than 433 years ago, after his conquest of India

and occupation of territories including the town of

Ayodhya. In Suit No.4, written statement was filed by

Defendant Nos.1 and 2. In paragraph 25 it was pleaded

that members of the Hindu community have from time

immemorial been worshiping the site as of the Janma

Bhumi. A written statement was also filed by Defendant

No.3, Nirmohi Akhara and Defendant No.4, Mahant

Raghunath Das. The existence of Mosque claimed by the

plaintiff was denied. It was further pleaded that the

alleged Mosque never existed, nor it exists now. The

building which the plaintiffs have been wrongly

referring as Babri Masjid is and has always been the

temple of Janma Bhumi with Idols of Hindu God installed

 Page 6
therein. In the additional pleas it was pleaded that

the temple in question known as Janma Bhumi, the birth

place of Lord Ram Chandra, situate in Ayodhya belongs

and will always belongs to Defendant No.3. 13. In Suit No.4, written statement was also filed by

State, Defendant Nos.5 to 8 in which it was pleaded

that the Government is not interested in the property

which is in dispute and as such it is not proposed to

contest the suit. Defendant No.10 filed a written

statement and additional written statement. Few other

defendants also filed written statement. In written

statement filed by Dharam Das, Defendant No.13, it was

pleaded that Mir Baqi, who was a Shia and commanded by

Babar, demolished the ancient Hindu temple at the time

of Raja Vikramaditya at Sri Ram Janma Bhumi. It was,

further, pleaded that originally there was a temple

erected. Few of the other defendants filed written

statements. Defendant No.20, the convenor of Akhil

Bharatiya Shri Ram Janma Bhumi Punrudhar Samiti filed

a detailed written statement and additional statement.

Plaintiff also filed a replication. Page 7 14. In Suit No.5 it was pleaded that premises in dispute

is the place where Maryada Purushottam Ram Chandra Ji

Maharaj was born. The Hindus worship divine which has

no quality or shape or form. In paragraph 19 and 20

following was pleaded: 15. In paragraph 23 of the plaint, plaintiff also relied

on ‘1928 Edition of the Fyzabad Gazetteer published by

the Government Press, U.P.

 Page 8 16. It was further pleaded that disputed structure was

raised on the land belonging to the plaintiff-Deity

after destroying the temple situate there. In paragraph

24(C), it was further pleaded that in spite of all that

Mir Baqi tried to do with the Temple, the land always

continued to vest in the Plaintiff-Deities. Paragraph

24(C) is as follows: 17. In paragraph 25 it was pleaded that worship of the

Plaintiff-Deities has continued since ever throughout

the ages at Sri Ram Janma Bhumi. The place belongs to

the Deities. No valid Waqf was ever created or could

have been created at the place or any part of it, in

view of the title and possession of the Plaintiff-

Deities thereon. 18. Defendant No.3, Nirmohi Akhara filed a written

statement wherein denying paragraphs 19 and 20

following was pleaded: 19. Additional written statements were also filed by

defendant No.3. In para-42 of the additional written

statement it was pleaded that the outer Sahan carried

a little temple of Bhagwan Ram Lallaji along with other

Idols which was regularly worshipped according to the

customs prevailing amongst Rama Nandi Vairagies. The

outer part with temple of Ram Lallaji and other Deities

have ever been in management and charge of Nirmohi

Akhara as Shebait. It was further pleaded that

attachment made in 1949 was only in respect of main

building of Garbh Grahya carrying three “Shikher”

wherein the Deity of Bhagwan Sri Ram Chandraji is

installed by Nirmohi Akhara from time beyond the human

memory. 20. The written statement was filed by Sunni Board,

Defendant No.4. In para-13, it was pleaded that building

in dispute is not the Janam Bhumi of Sri Ram Chandraji

and no Idols of Ram Chandraji were ever installed in

the said building. In the second part of para-13

following was pleaded: 21. It was pleaded in para-19 that neither there is any

public record, much less any record of unimpeachable

authority showing that the premises in dispute is the

place of birth of Sri Ram Chandraji nor there is any

historical or judicial record to testify. It was

further pleaded in para-19 that Hindu books as well as

the writing of Hindu scholars themselves make it very

doubtful as to whether the personality of Sri Ram

Chandraji is a historical personality. In para-24 it

was pleaded that at no point of time there ever existed

any temple at the site of the Babri Masjid and it is

absolutely incorrect to say that the said Mosque was

constructed, after destroying any ancient temple, with

the material of the alleged temple. The Mosque in

question has always been used as a Mosque since its

construction during the regime of Emperor Babar. P a g e 12 22. Defendant No.5 also filed written statement. It was

pleaded in para 19 that there is no evidence, historic

or otherwise, to indicate that Sri Ram Chandra Ji was

born there. Defendant Nos.4 and 5 also filed an

additional written statement. 23. The reference of one more written statement is

necessary i.e. the written statement filed by Defendant

No.24. Defendant No.24 is Prince Anjum, President, All

India Shia Conference, Lucknow. In reference to Lord

Ram, Defendant No.24 has pleaded that Muslims of India

has highest regard for Lord Ram. Pleadings made in para-

10 of the written statement in this regard are as

follows: It implied residence in a well-defined
geographical area. Aboriginal tribes, savage
and half-civilized people, the cultured
Dravidians and the Vedic Aryans were all
Hindus as they were the sons of the same
mother. The Hindu thinkers reckoned with the
striking fact that the men and women dwelling
in India belonged to different communities,
worshipped different gods, and practised
different rites (Kurma Purana)(“The Hindu
View of Life” by Dr. Radhakrishnan, p.12). 31. Monier Williams has observed that “it must
be borne in mind that Hinduism is far more
than a mere form of theism resting on
Brahmanism. It presents for our investigation
a complex congeries of creeds and doctrines
which in its gradual accumulation may be
compared to the gathering together of the
mighty volume of the Ganges, swollen by a
continual influx of tributary rivers and
rivulets, spreading itself over an ever- increasing area of country and finally
resolving itself into an intricate Delta of
tortuous steams and jungly marshes... The
Hindu religion is a reflection of the
composite character of the Hindus, who are
not one people but many. It is based on the
idea of universal receptivity. It has ever

 P a g e 17
 aimed at accommodating itself to
 circumstances, and has carried on the process
 of adaptation through more than three
 thousand years. It has first borne with and
 then, so to speak, swallowed, digested, and
 assimilated something from all
 creeds”.(“Religious Thought & Life in India”
 by Monier Williams, p.57)” 30. The concept of Hinduism has been defined by great

scholars and jurists, but in this case, it is not

necessary to dwell upon concept of Hinduism. The core

of all religions and faith is one, i.e., quest for

truth, quest for knowing more about soul and quest to

know more about Supreme, who in one or other form is

worshipped in all religions. Every religion, every

faith revere and sings the glory of God with whom I all

want to relate. Wordsworth in his beautiful poem has

also echoed the same thought:- 31. Reverting back to the point which are up for

consideration, i.e., whether the disputed structure is

holy birthplace of Lord Ram as per the faith, trust and

belief of Hindus? 32. Ayodhya, which is associated with Ram is treated

a holy city by Hindu scriptures. In Brihad-dharmottara

Purana, Ayodhya is referred to one of seven holiest

cities in following verse:- Dr. Dhavan submits that the argument that Ayodhya

Mahatmya in Skanda Purana gives the location of Ram

Janma Bhumi, which matches with the site of Babri

Masjid has not been found correct. In support of his

submission, he has relied on “Historian Report to the

Nation”, which has been exhibited by plaintiff in Suit

No.5 (Ext. No.44) as well as plaintiff in Suit No.4

(Ext. No.62). It is submitted that the above report

states that location described in the Ayodhya Mahatmya

in Skanda Purana does not match with the present-day

location of Babri Masjid. It is submitted that no

place in Ayodhya is associated with Lord Ram’s birth

either in Eleventh Century or even six centuries after.

When a place is associated with the birthplace of Lord

Ram, possibly in the later Eighteenth Century, its

 P a g e 20
location given in the various Mahatmyas does not tally

with the Babri Masjid. The arguments based on book

Ayodhya by Hans Bakker has also been refuted by Dr.

Dhavan. He submits that no reliance can be placed on

the Hans Bakker since (i) Hans Bakker proceeds on the

presumption that Ayodhya is not a real city but a

figment of the poet’s imagination; (ii) Bakker proceeds

by equating Ayodhya to the city of Saketa; (iii) Bakker

further states that even by mapping the birthplace from

Ayodhya Mahatmya and ultimately states that Babri

Masjid is built at the birthplace as is confirmed by

local belief; (iv) even the impugned judgment records

that Hans Bakker proceeds on the basis of conjectures

without assigning any reason. 34. With regard to the statement recorded in various

travelogues, Dr. Dhavan submits that statement in

travelogues are all hearsay and those travellers were

only story tellers on which no reliance can be placed.

Insofar as Gazetteers are concerned, Dr. Dhavan submits

that Gazetteers which were prepared during the period

of East India Company were the Gazetteers prepared to

 P a g e 21
place before the Britishers and they being not under

governmental authority cannot be relied. He submits

that Gazettes prepared after 1858 when the British

assumes sovereignty on the area in question, can be

looked into, but those Gazettes cannot be stand alone

evidence and needs corroboration by any other intrinsic

evidence. He submits that the site of Babri Masjid was

constructed in 1528 A.D. being not the birthplace of

Lord Ram, there is no question of treating construction

of Babri Mosque on birthplace of Lord Ram. 35. Above submission has been refuted by learned senior

counsel, Shri K.Parasaran, Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, Shri

P.N. Mishra and Shri P.S. Narsimha. Shri C.S.

Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel refuting the

submissions of Dr. Dhavan contends that faith and

belief of the Hindus in respect of place where disputed

structure was put up during the Mughal period was the

birthplace of Lord Ram and has been since ages

worshipped as such the place being divine and of sacred

character. It is submitted that scriptures and sacred

writings, which are of much earlier period than 1528

 P a g e 22
appropriately describes the Janma Asthan of Lord Ram

at Ayodhya. Reliance has been placed on Skanda Purana,

Vaisnavakhanda, Ayodhya Mahatmya specifically. It is

submitted that Valmiki Ramayana, which is composition

Before Christ also refers to Ayodhya as birthplace of

Lord Ram, according to which Lord Ram was born at the

palace of King Dasratha at Ayodhya. ‘Ramcharit Manasa’

by Tulsidas has also been referred to wherein the birth

of Lord Ram at Ayodhya is mentioned, which is being

celebrated on Chaitra Navami, Shukla Paksha every year.

Learned counsel appearing for the Hindu parties also

submits that travellers’ account, which relates to the

period prior to 1858 as well as after 1858, which are

in form of published books are relevant and can be

relied by the Court under Section 57 of Indian Evidence

Act, 1872. Coming to the Gazetteers, learned counsel

submits that Gazetteers are published work by

Government authorities, which has substantial

evidentiary value. It is submitted that Gazetteers

have been relied by this Court in several cases and

statements recorded in Gazetteers has to be considered

as substantial evidence and looked into. Shri P.S.

 P a g e 23
Narsimha elaborating his submission submits that the

test, which has to be applied for marshalling the

evidence is the standard of preponderance of

probability. Referring to Section 3 of Evidence Act,

he submits that proof of fact depends upon the belief

or probability of the fact looking to the circumstances

of the particular case. It is submitted that oral and

documentary evidence submitted on behalf of the Hindu

parties proves the faith and belief of Hindus that

disputed site is birthplace of Lord Ram. He submits

that Valmiki Ramayana refers to birth of Shri Ram in

Ayodhya, which is the epic of the East and considered

to have become the foundation of the culture and

tradition of our country. Skanda Purana is of Eighth

Century A.D., which provides ample proof of faith that

is instilled in the heart of Hindus, i.e., visit to

birthplace of Lord Ram, which is of extreme merit

which, for Hindus, is nothing but Moksha. It is further

submitted that repeated assertions and right to worship

by the Hindus in the disputed premises and the various

fights by Hindus is ample proof of their undying faith

that disputed site is the birthplace of Lord Ram. Shri

 P a g e 24
P.N. Mishra elaborating his submission has placed

reliance on Holy Scriptures Shrimad Valmiki Ramayana

and Srimad Skandpuranam, Rudrayamala, Sri

Ramacharitamanasa and other scriptures like Srimad

Narashingha Puranam. Reliance has been placed on Verse

15 to 17 and 18 to 25 and particular pages of Ayodhya

Mahatmya of Skanda Purana, he submits that the above

verses gives the geographical situation of birthplace

of Lord Ram, which is still verifiable. Shri Mishra

took us to the oral evidence of witnesses where

according to him witnesses have proved the locations

as mentioned in the Skanda Purana with respect to

birthplace of Lord Ram. Referring to map prepared by

Hans Bakker and the site plan prepared by Shiv Shankar

Lal in Suit No.2 of 1950, he submits that several marks

mentioned in Skanda Purana are still present, which

certifies the location of birthplace as the disputed

site. 36. The faith and belief that disputed site is

birthplace of Lord Ram has to be established since

before 1528 when disputed structure is said to have

 P a g e 25
been constructed by Babar. The oral evidence, which

has been led by the parties to support their respective

cases can at best be the oral evidence of that which

has been seen by the witnesses, who depose before the

Court, which can at best be of things as existed in the

Twentieth Century only. There are some Exhibits filed

by the parties, which relates to Nineteenth Century.

The Holy Scriptures relied by Hindu Parties being of

older period, the accounts of travelogues and

Gazetteers belonging to different period, some before

Nineteenth Century, the period of consideration have

to be divided in three parts. First period before

1528, second period from 1528 to 1858 and the third

period after 1858 to 1949. Although in the written

statement filed by Muslim Parties, Sunni Central Board

under Suit No.5 pleaded that as a matter of fact, the

religious books as well as the writings of Hindu

Scholars makes it very difficult as to whether

personality of Shri Ram Chandra Ji is a historical

personality, but by making statements under Order X

Rule 2 of the Civil Procedure Code, which statements

have been recorded by the High Court and has been

 P a g e 26
referred by the High Court in its judgment, the stand

of Muslim parties have been clarified. It is necessary

to refer the above statements made under Order X Rule

II C.P.C . The statement of Shri Zafaryab Jilani,

counsel for plaintiff in Suit No.4 was recorded by the

Full Bench of the High Court on 22.04.2009, which is

to the following effect:- For the purpose of this case there is
 no dispute about the faith of Hindu
 devotees of Lord Rama regarding the birth
 of Lord Rama at Ayodhya as described in
 Balmiki Ramayana or as existing today. It
 is, however, disputed and denied that the
 site of Babri Masjid was the place of birth
 of Lord Rama. It is also denied that there
 was any Ram Janam Bhoomi Temple at the site
 of Babri Masjid at any time whatsoever. The existence of Nirmohi Akhara from the
 second half of Nineteenth Century onwards
 is also not disputed. It is, however,
 denied and disputed that Nirmohi Akhara was
 in existence and specially in Ayodhya in
 16th Century A.D. or in 1528 A.D. and it is
 also denied that any idols were there in
 the building of the Babri Masjid up to 22nd
 December, 1949. Sd/- M.A. Siddiqui, Adv. 22.04.2009

 STATEMENT OF SRI SYED IRFAN AHMAD, COUNSEL
 FOR DEFENDANTS No.6/1 and 6/2 IN
 O.O.S.NO.34 OF 1989 MADE UNDER ORDER X RULE
 2 C.P.C . ON 22.04.2009. For the purpose of this case there is
 no dispute about the faith of Hindu
 devotees of Lord Rama regarding the birth
 of Lord Rama at Ayodhya as described in

 P a g e 28
 Balmiki Ramayana or as existing today. It
 is, however, disputed and denied that the
 site of Babri Masjid was the place of birth
 of Lord Rama. It is also denied that there
 was any Ram Janam Bhoomi Temple at the site
 of Babri Masjid at any time whatsoever. The existence of Nirmohi Akhara from the
 second half of Nineteenth Century onwards
 is also not disputed. It is, however,
 denied and disputed that Nirmohi Akhara was
 in existence and specially in Ayodhya in
 16th Century A.D. or in 1528 A.D. and it is
 also denied that any idols were there in
 the building of the Babri Masjid up to 22nd
 December, 1949. Sd/- S. Irfan Ahmad, Adv. 22.04.2009” 37. The stand of plaintiff of Suit No.4 with regard to

faith and belief of Hindus regarding birth of Lord Ram

at Ayodhya having been made clear and it having been

accepted that there is no dispute about the faith of

Hindu devotees that Lord Ram was born at Ayodhya, our

consideration is confined to only a limited submission

as to whether site of disputed structure where Babri

Masjid was constructed is the place of birth of Lord

Ram or not. It will be necessary to consider the

evidence led by the parties in respect of above aspect

only. P a g e 29
Period earlier to 1528 A.D. 38. Religious faith of a person is formed on

traditions, religious scriptures and practices.

Constitution Bench of this Court speaking through

Justice B.K. Mukherjea in The Commissioner, Hindu

Religious Endowments, Madras Vs. Sri Lakshmindra

Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt , AIR 1954 SC 282

held that religion is certainly a matter of faith with

individuals or communities, in paragraph 17, following

has been observed:- 39. Religious scriptures, which are main source of

Hinduism are the foundation on which faith of Hindus

is concretised. The epic Valmiki Ramayana is the main

source of knowledge of Lord Ram and his deeds. The

composition of Valmiki Ramayana dates back in the

period Before Christ (BC). The Valmiki Ramayana is of

period earlier to Mahabharata and Srimad Bhagwadgita.

The period in which Valmiki Ramayana was composed is

much prior to beginning of Christian era. For the

purposes of this case, it is sufficient to notice the

statement of Suvira Jaiswal (PW-18), a witness produced

by plaintiff of Suit No.4 as historian. She in her

statement states “the period of Valmiki Ramayana is

recorded as 300 BC - 200 BC”. Various scholars and

others date the Valmiki Ramayana to much older period

but it is not necessary to dwell in the said question

since for our purpose, it is sufficient that Valmiki

Ramayana was composed in an era Before Christ. 40. Valmiki Ramayan, Balakand, Canto XVIII Shlokas 8

to 12 refers to birth of Lord Ram with planetary

 P a g e 31
situation. The above Shlokas depict that Lord of the

Universe, “Vishnu” was born as son of Kaushalya. Valmiki Ramayana contains ample description of birth

of Lord Ram as incarnation of Vishnu, as son of Dasratha

and Kaushalya at Ayodhya. Shlok 10 tells about birth

of Lord Ram as son of Kaushalya, which is extracted as

below:- Shlokas 18 to 25, which are relevant are as follows:- In his statement, he states:- This book contains “the details about the Ram Janma

Bhumi, but did not mention about any mosque”. The

witness was cross-examined with regard to his statement

made in paragraph 35. He in his cross-examination has

said that he has seen Bara Sthan, Nageshwar Nath

Temple, Lomash Rishi hermitage, Vighnesh Pindarak and

Vashishta Kund. In his cross-examination, he states:- chief witness was cross-examined in which cross-

examination, he stated that he had darshan of Ram Janma

Bhumi following the legends in Ayodhya Mahatmya.

Referring to stone fixing by Shri Edward in British

Rule (1901-1902), he submits that he has seen stone

fixed by legends at Bara Sthan, Ram Janma Bhumi,

Pindarak, Lomash, Vighnesh and Vashishtkund. He

further had stated that the stone at Lomash Ashram was

fixed in the east of Ram Janma Bhumi Mandir. In his

cross-examination, he states following:- In his examination-in-chief, he states that Lomas Rishi

Ashram is in the east of the present Shri Ram Janma

Bhumi. He further states that at place of Lomas Rishi

Ashram, now, there is a Ramgulella Mandir and a stone

in the name of Shri Lomasji. In paragraph 31 of the

examination-in-chief, he states:- examination:- Boundaries as required to refer in a sale or lease

documents were not contemplated to be given in such

ancient Text as Ayodhya Mahatmya of Skanda Purana. As

noted above, Dr. Rajeev Dhavan refuting the

identification, the marks given in Ayodhya Mahatmya of

Skanda Purana has placed heavy reliance on the

Historian’s reports to the Nation dated 13.05.1991. P a g e 46
Dr. Rajeev Dhavan refuting the arguments based on the

locations of Ram Janma Bhumi as given in Ayodhya

Mahatmya of Skanda Purana rely on the Historian Reports

to Nation. Arguments made by Shri P.N. Mishra, relying

on book Ayodhya by Hans Bakker has been refuted by

making following submissions:- (a) Hans Bakker proceeds on the presump- tion that Ayodhya is not a real city
 but a figment of the poet’s imagina- tion; (b) He proceeds by equating Ayodhya to the
 city of Saketa; (c) Even while mapping the birthplace from
 Ayodhya Mahatmya, he cites considera- ble difficulties and ultimately states
 that Babri Masjid is built at the
 birthplace as is confirmed by local
 belief. (d) Even the impugned judgment records
 that Hans Bakker proceeds on the basis
 of conjectures without assigning any
 reason.“ 53. The Historian’s Report to Nation, which is Ext.

No.62 in Suit No.4 may be first considered. Report

referred to as a Historian Report to the Nation was

their comments on the stand of Vishva Hindu Parishad

 P a g e 47
in the Ayodhya dispute. The four Historian in their

letter to the Government of India opined “Our study

shows neither any evidence of the existence of a temple

on the site of Babri Masjid nor of the destruction of

any other structure there prior to the construction of

the mosque.” 54. The above observations in the report that the

absence of any such reference to ancient Sanskrit text

makes it very doubtful that belief in Ram Janma Asthan

is of such respectable antiquity as is being made out.

The epic Valmiki Ramayana as noticed above which was a

composition before the start of Christian era states

Ayodhya as birth of Lord Ram at Ayodhya at King

Dasratha’s palace. The report jumped to the conclusion

that it is even doubtful that belief is earlier than

the late Eighteenth Century. Further observations were

made in the report regarding period of composition of

Skanda Purana, the report comes to the conclusion that

Ayodhya Mahatmya has to be of period towards the end

of Eighteenth Century or the beginning of Nineteenth

Century. It is necessary to consider as to whether

 P a g e 48
observations made in the report that Ayodhya Mahatmya

of the Skanda Purana is composition of end of

Eighteenth Century or the beginning of Nineteenth

Century or it belongs to an earlier period. 55. P.V. Kane in History of Dharmasastra, Volume 5,

Part II published by Bhandarkar Oriental Research

Institute, Poona (1962) has elaborately dealt with

Puranas and their date or period. P.V. Kane has also

referred to Skanda Purana in VII Khand as published

from Venkateshwar Press , referred to above . After

elaborate discussion P.V. Kane arrives at the

conclusion that Skanda Purana cannot be placed earlier

than Seventh Century and not later than Ninth Century

A.D. Following is the discussion on Skanda Purana and

its dating by P.V. Kane in “History of Dharamasastra”:- II. 290 mentions it in connection with the
status of vesyas (courtezans). Kalpataru on
vrata quotes only 15 verses from it,
Kalpataru on tirtha (pp. 36-39, 32, 46,
130-135) quotes 92 verses from it, on dana
only 44, on niyatakala 63 verses, 18 verses
on Rajadharma (on Kaumudimahotsava), only
4 in sraddhakanda and 3 in grhasthakanda. Apararka quotes only 19 verses from it; one
quotation indicates Tantrik influence (vide
note). The Danasagara cites 48 verses on
dana from it and the Sm. C. only 23 in all. Considering the colossal figure of slokas
in the Skanda it must be said that it is
rather sparingly quoted in the Dharmasastra
works. A verse in it seems to echo the very
words of Kalidasa and quotes the view of
Devala. In such a huge work interpolations
could easily be made. So it is difficult to
assign a definite date to it. A ms. of the
Skanda in the Nepal Durbar Library is

 P a g e 50
 written in characters which belong to the
 7th century A.D. according to Haraprasad
 Shastri (vide Cat. of Nepal Palm-leaf mss. p. LII.)

 It would be not far from the truth to
 say that the Skanda cannot be placed
 earlier than the 7th century A.D. and not
 later than 9th century A.D. on the evidence
 so far available.” 56. There is no need of any further discussion

regarding period of composition of Skanda Purana in

view of evidence, which was led on behalf of plaintiff

of Suit No.4 itself. PW20 Prof. Shirin Musavi in her

statement has stated that geographical local of Ramkot

found description in the Skanda Purana. She clearly

stated that Skanda Purana belongs to Ninth Century A.D.

Following is her statement in above regard:- The report, thus, has been prepared as the counter to

the Vishwa Hindu Parishad case, which itself suggests

that the four Historians had not treated the entire

subject dispassionately and objectively. 60. Justice Sudhir Agarwal in the impugned judgment has

elaborately dealt with the above reports by four

 P a g e 54
Historians and found it unworthy of reliance. Very

strong observations have also been made with regard to

the report of Historian as well as of some witnesses

in following words:- 61. One more aspect of the report needs to be noticed.

In the report, the refence to excavation made by Prof.

B.B. Lal (of Archaeological Survey of India) to

identify sites of Ramayana have been made. The said

excavation was conducted by Shri B.B. Lal in 1975-76. P a g e 56
Towards south of the disputed structure, certain trench

were excavated and Shri B.B. Lal opined that certain

pillar bases were found sustaining pillars and show a

structure in the south of Babri Masjid. In the report,

after referring to excavation by Shri B.B. Lal, the

report concludes:- 62. The excavation of disputed site leaving the area

on which makeshift structure was situate was carried

by Archaeological Survey of India (A.S.I.) under the

orders of the High Court dated 05.03.2003. The

detailed report by A.S.I. has been submitted which

shall be separately considered. The opinion formed by

four Historians on the basis of certain excavation made

by Shri B.B. Lal in the year 1975-76 has now become not

much relevant in view of elaborate exercises conducted

 P a g e 57
by A.S.I. under the orders of High Court. Hence the

Historian’s report cannot be relied due to above

subsequent massive excavation conducted by A.S.I. 63. The submissions have been made by Dr. Dhavan in

reference to book on Ayodhya by Hans Bakker. The book

Ayodhya by Hans Bakker is a thesis submitted to

University of Groningen by Dutch Scholar H.T. Bakker

in 1984. The book has been published in 1986, which

contains details which is in three parts. Three maps

were also prepared of the Ayodhya including place like

Ram Janma Bhumi, Babri Masjid and other legends of

importance. Hans Bakker in his book has elaborately

considered the Ayodhya Mahatamya, which includes

consideration of Ayodhya Mahatmya published by

Venkateshwar Press, Mumbai as noted above as well as

few manuscripts of Ayodhya Mahatmya received from

different sources. He has compared the manuscripts,

one received from Bodleain Library, Oxford, London,

Vrindawan Research Institute, Oriental Institute

Baroda and Research Institute, Jodhpur. After

elaborate comparison and considering all relevant

 P a g e 58
aspects, Hans Bakker in Chapter XXI has opined that

original location of the Janma Asthan is comparatively

certain since it seems to be attested by the location.

Following statement is made by Bakker:- 64. As far as maps prepared after discussing the

locations given in Ayodhya Mahatmya, different versions

of Ayodhya Mahatamya including one contained in the

published version from Venkateshwar Press, Mumbai, at

the end, Hans Bakker concludes that the five maps

containing the scared topography of Ayodhya and its

ksetra according to the tradition of Ayodhya Mahatmya

based on survey carried out in the autumn of 1980 and

spring of 1983. In the end, he states following:- 65. To support his submission that Ayodhya is not a

real city but a figment of the poet’s imagination as

was observed by Hans Bakker himself, following passage

from the book is referred by Dr. Dhavan:- 66. The above observation occurs in Chapter dealing

with the subject on “History of Saketa/Ayodhya from 600

BC to AD 1000”. After making the aforesaid remarks,

the conclusion which was drawn by Hans Bakker is as

follows:- 67. Hans Bakker, however, when proceeded to examine the

history, Bakker also considered the Jains and Baudh’s

Scriptures. Bakker subsequently held that identity of

Ayodhya and Saketa was started and completed in the age

of Guptas. The further observations made in the book,

which is to the following effect:- Such testimony is indeed found among the
 inscriptions of the later Guptas (5th
 century): an inscription dealing from AD

 P a g e 61
 436 describes the donees of a gift as
 ‘Brahmins hailing from Ayodhya’. A Gupta
 inscription of AD 533/4 mentions a nobleman
 from Ayodhya. The spurious Gaya copperplate
 inscription of Samudragupta, probably a
 fabrication of the beginning of the 8th
 century, describes Ayodhya as a garrison
 town.” 68. Thus, identity of Ayodhya has been attested and

corroborated by Sanskrit Scriptures and the

corroboration from the later Gupta period. Thus, the

earlier observation made was only to the effect that

Ayodhya is not attested by any epic literature, but

once it was identified by author himself, the earlier

observation loses its importance. As far as observation

of Bakker in which he equated the Ayodhya to the city

of Saketa, no exception can be taken. Saketa and

Ayodhya has been used as synonyms in other scriptures

as well as historians. With regard to map of birthplace

after considering the entire materials, Hans Bakker

attests the location of birthplace. The conclusions

arrived by Hans Bakker cannot be said to be based on

surmises or conjectures. 69. One more aspect relevant for the period in question

 P a g e 62
may be considered. DW2/1-1, Rajinder Singh, appeared

as a witness for defendant No.2 in Suit No.4, as a

person having interest in the study of religious,

cultural and Historical books of Sikh Cult. In

examination-in-chief, he has referred to several books

about Sikh Cult and history. He also stated in his

examination-in-chief that Guru Nanak Devji had sought

darshan of Shri Ram Janma Bhumi Temple at Ayodhya. The

period during which Guru Nanak Devji went to Ayodhya

and had darshan stated to be is 1510-1511 A.D. In

paragraph 11 of examination-in-chief, he states:- In paragraph 5 of examination-in-chief, he states:- Faith and belief regarding Janma Asthan during the
period 1528 A.D. to 31.10.1858. 73. During this period, “Sri Ramacharitmanasa” of

Gosvami Tulasidasa was composed in Samvat 1631 (1574-

75 A.D.). The Ramacharitmanasa enjoys a unique place

and like Valmiki Ramayana is revered, read and

respected by Hindus, which has acquired the status of

an Epic in Hindu faith. Gosvami Tulasidasa in Bala-

Kanda has composed verses, which are spoken through

Lord Vishnu. When Brahma appealed to Vishnu to relieve

the Devas, Sages, Gandharvas and earth from the terror

of Demon Ravana (Raavan), Lord Vishnu said that I will

take a human form and born to Dasaratha and Kausalya

in Kosalapuri. After Doha 186, Bala-Kanda in following

three chaupaiyas (Verses), Lord Vishnu says:- Section 57 insofar as it is relevant for the present

case is as follows:- xxxxxxxxxxxxx

 P a g e 69
 In all these cases, and also on all
 matters of public history, literature,
 science or art, the Court may resort for
 its aid to appropriate books or documents
 of reference. If the Court is called upon by any
 person to take judicial notice of any fact,
 it may refuse to do so, unless and until
 such person produces any such book or
 document as it may consider necessary to
 enable it to do so.” 77. The definition of facts, which Court must take

judicial notice is not an exhaustive definition.

Phrase “on all matters of public history, literature,

science or art” are wide enough to empower the court

to take into consideration Gazetteers, travelogues and

books. Gazetteers are nothing but record of public

history. The above provision is with a rider that if

the Court is called upon by any person to take judicial

notice of any fact, the Court may refuse to do so until

and unless, such person produces such book or any

document. Both the parties have cited several

judgments of this Court, where this Court had occasion

to consider admissibility of Gazetteers and other books

in evidence and the value, which is to be attached on

statements contained in Gazetteers, travelogues and

 P a g e 70
books. In Sukhdev Singh Vs. Maharaja Bahadur of

Gidhaur , AIR 1951 SC 288, this Court held that

Gazetteer is an official document of some value as it

is compiled by experienced officials with great care.

Following observations were made in paragraph 10:- 78. In Gopal Krishnaji Ketkar Vs. Mahomed Jaffar

Mahomed Hussein , AIR 1954 SC 5, this Court had referred

to and relied on the Gazetteer of Bombay. In paragraph

4, the Court was examining nature of a tomb which belong

to Eighteenth Century. In paragraph 4, this Court

Stated:- 79. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Mahant Shri

Srinivas Ramanuj Das Vs. Surjanarayan Das and Another,

AIR 1967 SC 256 had occasion to consider Puri Gazetteer

of O’Malley of 1908. In the Gazetteer, the history of

Emar Math was addressed. It was contended by the

appellant before this Court that Gazetteer cannot be

treated as an evidence. The Court held that Gazetteer

can be consulted on matters of public history. In

paragraph 26, following was laid down:- 80. This Court in Bala Shankar Maha Shanker Bhattjee

and Others Vs. Charity Commissioner, Gujarat State,

 P a g e 72
1995 Supp. (1) SCC 485 had occasion to consider

Gazetteer of the Bombay presidency, Vol. III published

in 1879. This Court held that Gazette is admissible

under Section 35 read with Section 81 of the Evidence

Act, 1872. It was held that the Court may in

conjunction with the other evidence may take into

consideration in adjudging the dispute in question

though it may not be treated as conclusive evidence.

The recitals in the Gazette with regard to location of

temple of Kalika Mataji on the top of the hill was

relied. In paragraph 22, following was laid down:- 81. In view of the above discussions, the law as noted

above clearly establish that Court can take into

consideration the Gazetteers under the Evidence Act,

1872 , even though, the statement in Gazetteers will not

be treated as conclusive evidence but the presumption

of correctness of that statement is attached to it.

The admissibility of books and travelogues cannot be

denied in view of Section 57. Section 81 of the

Evidence Act also contemplate for a presumption of

genuineness of every document purporting to be any

official Gazette or the Government Gazette. Section

81 of the Evidence Act is as follows:- “81. Presumption as to Gazettes,
 newspapers, private Acts of Parliament and
 other documents.—The Court shall presume
 the genuineness of every document
 purporting to be the London Gazette, or any
 Official Gazette, or the Government Gazette
 of any colony, dependency of possession of
 the British Crown, or to be a newspaper or
 journal, or to be a copy of a private Act

 P a g e 74
 of Parliament of the United Kingdom printed
 by the Queen’s Printer, and of every
 document purporting to be a document
 directed by any law to be kept by any
 person, if such document is kept
 substantially in the form required by law
 and is produced from proper custody.” 82. Now, remains the next contention of Dr. Dhavan that

Gazetteers prior to 1858, when the sovereignty of the

area was not under direct control of British, during

the regime of East India Company, cannot be relied. In

the present case, the Gazetteers, which have been

relied are of the Gazetteers of Nineteenth Century.

The East India company by Charter from Queen Elizabeth

on 31.12.1600 were permitted to trade in the East

Indies. The Company initially setup a factory at Surat

(State of Gujarat) in 1619. The jurisdiction and power

of East India Company were enlarged by various charters

issued by the Queen and subsequently by enactments made

by the British Parliament. By 1805, several functions

in Oudh area were also entrusted to the East Indies

Company including establishment of Sudder Court in Oudh

area. East India Company, by beginning of Nineteenth

Century, was not only a trading company but had

 P a g e 75
statutory and governmental power as entrusted by

Charters and Acts of the British Parliament with

agreement of Nawab of Avadh in 1801. In any view of the

matter, the Gazetteers, which were prepared during the

regime of the East India Company in the Nineteenth

Century contains a record of public history and they

are clearly admissible under Section 57 of the Evidence

Act. Therefore, there is no substance in the

submission of Dr. Dhavan that Gazetteers prior to 1858

should not be looked into. 83. During the relevant period, the first important

historical book, which contains the minutest details

of administration in the regime of the Akbar is A-in-

i-Akbari, which was completed in Sixteenth Century.

The A-in-i-Akbari was work of Abul-Fazl Allami, who was

one of the Ministers in the Akbar’s Court. The A-in-

i-Akbari was translated by H. Blochmann from persian

to English. Col. H.S. Jarrett translated Vol. No.II.

Shri Jadunath Sarkar, a Historian of repute corrected

and further annotated Vol.II translated into English

by Col. H.S. Jarrett. Shri Jadunath Sarkar in his

 P a g e 76
Editor’s introduction has observed that Second volume

was designated to serve as a Gazetteer of the Mughal

Empire under Akbar. Jadunath Sarkar says that Third

volume of the A-in-i-Akbari was encyclopedia of the

religion, philosophy and sciences of the Hindus. The

above was stated by Jadunath Shankar in following

words:- 84. In second volume of the A-in-i-Akbari details have

been given regarding "The Subah of Oudh", a description

of Awadh (Ayodhya) mentioned that Awadh (Ayodhya) is

one of the largest cities of India. The description

refers to Oudh as residence of Ramchandra following is

the description given at page 182 Vol.2:- 85. Further Volume III, Chapter VI contains a heading

"The Eighteen Sciences”. The description refers to

Vedas and 18 Puranas and other religious texts. The

book also refers to Avatars (incarnation of the Deity)

in the following words:- 86. The book have details of 9 avatars of Supreme Being

(Lord Vishnu) Ram Avatar or Ram incarnation has also

been mentioned in following words:- 87. The A-in-i-Akbari is attestation of the faith and

beliefs held by Hindus in the period of Emperor Akbar.

Ayodhya was mentioned as residence of Ramachandra, who

was further described as Avatar, i.e., incarnation of

Vishnu. Specific statement has been made that during

the Treta Yuga on the ninth of the light half of the

month of Chaitra in the city of Ayodhya, of Kausalya

wife of Raja Dasaratha, Lord Ram was born. The A-in-

i-Akbari unmistakeably refers Ayodhya as one of the

holiest places of antiquity. The above statement in A-

in-e-Akbari clearly indicate that faith and belief of

Hindus was that Ayodhya is a holiest place and

birthplace of Lord Ram, the incarnation of Vishnu, which

belief was continuing since before period of Akbar and

still continues as on date. 88. William Finch visited India from 1607 to 1611 A.D.,

his travel account has been published by William Foster

in his book "Early Travels in India". 89. William Finch mentioned about ruins of the

Ramachandra’s castle and houses. The travel accounts

also noticed the belief of Indians that Ramchandra was

 P a g e 80
born, who took flesh upon him. 90. Father Joseph Tieffenthaler visited India between

1766-1771 A.D. He wrote historical and geographical

description of India in latin. All the latin work was

translated in French. English translation of the work

was filed before the High Court as Ext. 133 (Suit-5)

and has been extensively relied on. In the description

of the Province of Oudh, following is stated:- P a g e 82
 Second that, on the left is seen a square box

 raised 5 inches above the ground, with borders made

 of lime, with a length of more than 5 ells and a

 maximum width of about 4 ells, which is called Bedi

 (i.e. the “cradle”) by the Hindus. The reason for

 the faith and belief was also that there was a

 house where Beschan (Vishnu) was born in the form

 of Ram. Third, that Aurengzebe or Babar got this place

 razed in order to deny the noble people, the

 opportunity of practicing their superstitions.

 However, there still exists some superstitious

 cult in some place or other. Since in the place

 where the native house of Ram existed, the Hindus

 go around 3 times and prostrate on the floor. 92. The first Gazetteer relied is East India Gazetteer

of Walter Hamilton, first published in 1828. The

Gazetteer contained particular descriptions of the

Empires, Kingdoms, Principalities, provinces, cities,

towns, districts, fortresses, harbours, rivers and

lakes of Hindostan. P a g e 83 93. The Gazetteer mentioned reputed site of temples

dedicated to Ram, Sita, Lakshman and Hanuman. The

Gazetteer further noticed that pilgrimage to Oudh are

chiefly of the Ramata sect, who walk round the temples

and Idols, bathe in the holy pools, and perform the

customary ceremonies. 94. The next Gazette relied is History, Antiquities,

Topography and Statistics of Eastern India (1838). While noticing the history and topography of

Gorukhpoor, Montgomery Martin mentioned about Ayodhya

and its glory. 95. A Gazetteer was published by Edward Thornton

“Gazetteer of India” (1854). In 1858, Edward Thornton

published another Gazetteer namely “Gazetteer of the

Territories under the Government of the East Indies

Company of the native States on the Continent of

India”, in which, a fairly large description of Oudh

is contained. P a g e 84 96. Reference of one more book which was filed as an

exhibit needs a reference. The book Hadith-e-Sehba was

written by Mirza Jaan in the year 1856. In the book it

was mentioned that the place of worship called as

birthplace of Lord Ram which was adjacent to ‘Sita-Ki-

Rasoi’, the Mosque was constructed by Babar in the year

923 Hijri. The translated copy of the book as exhibit 17. The following extract from the book is relevant to

be noticed:- Faith and belief of Hindus regarding Janma Asthan of
Lord Ram during the period 1858 to 1949. 98. During this period, there are several Gazetteers,

reports of A.S.I., books and other documentary

evidence, which have been exhibited in the Suits.

Apart from documentary evidence, a lot of oral evidence

has been led by the parties. 99. At first, Firstly, notice may be had of the

Gazetteers published during the relevant period by the

Government. All Gazettes, which were published during

the relevant period were under the full governmental

authority since the British had directly taken control

over the area of Oudh w.e.f. 01.11.1958 by Government

of India Act, 1858. P a g e 86 100. At this juncture notice may be taken of one more

relevant aspect, which is, that after the British

Government took over the area w.e.f. 01.11.1858, in the

official reports, correspondences and orders issued by

officers of British Government, the “Mosque” was always

referred to as “Mosque Janma Sthan”, which clearly

indicates that Government officers at that time always

treated the mosque as situated at Janma Sthan. Sufficient materials brought on record evidences the

above aspect; which may be referred to. Sheetal Dubey,

Thanedar Oudh has submitted a report on 01.12.1858,

which is Ext. 21 of Suit No.1, which report also refers

to “Masjid” as “Masjid Janma Sthan”. Report dated

01.12.1858 is already extracted. 101. Similarly in his report dated 06.12.1858,

Thanedar, Oudh, Sheetal Dubey, has again referred the

“Masjid” as “Masjid Janam Sthan”. An order was passed

on the application of Thanedar Sheetal Dubey on

10.12.1858, in which order, “Masjid” was referred as

“Masjid Janam Sthan”. The said order is brought on

record is Ext. A-69 (Suit No.1), already extracted. P a g e 87 102. Another important document, which has been much

relied by Dr. Rajeev Dhavan in his submissions is Ext.

A-14 (Suit-1), which is a copy of the letter dated

25.08.1863 sent by the Secretary, Chief Commissioner

of Oudh to the Commissioner, Faizabad Division, where

“Mosque” was referred as “Janam Sthan Mosque”. The

letter has already been extracted. 103. The above also clearly proves that even the

Government officers referred the Mosque as Janam Sthan

Mosque, which is fully corroborates the statements in

Gazetteers as noted and extracted above that Babri

Mosque was constructed at the Janam Sthan of Lord Ram. 104. The next work to be noticed is Historical Sketch

of Tehsil Fyzabad, Zilah Fyzabad, published by the

Government in 1870. The Historical Sketch was prepared

by P. Carnegy, Officiating Commissioner and Settlement

Officer of Ayodhya and Fyzabad. P. Carnegy in his

sketch states that Ayodhya is to Hindu what Macca is

to the Mohamedan and Jerusalem to the Jews. P. Carnegy

 P a g e 88
description has been extracted. 105. P. Carnegy has further referred to Janmasthan and

other temples and has categorically stated that at the

place of Janmasthan Emperor Babar built a Mosque, which

still bears his name in A.D. 1528. 106. P. Carnegy has also noticed under the heading

Hindu and Musalman differences about great rupture,

which took place between the Hindus and Mahomedans,

where Hindus were said to have taken control of

Janmasthan after fierce fight. It further noticed that

up to that time the Hindus and Mahomedans alike used

to worship in the Mosque-Temple and since British rule

a railing has been put up to prevent the dispute. 107. Another Gazetteer published in 1877 is Gazetteer

of the Province of Oudh. The Ayodhya has been

elaborately dealt in the Gazette. In above Gazetteer,

a description with regard to Janamasthan and other

temples, is mentioned as extracted. P a g e 89 108. Under heading “Babar’s Mosque” and “Hindu and

Musalman Differences”, the same contents have been

repeated under the Gazetteer, which I have already

extracted while noticing the Historical Sketch of

Tahsil Fyzabad, Zillah Fyzabad by P. Carnegy, which are

not being repeated for brevity. 109. In 1880, A.F. Millitt prepared his “Report on

Settlement of Land Revenue of the Faizabad” which is

extracted above. 110. Next to be noticed is Report of A.S.I. of North

West Provinces and Oudh, published in 1889, which

states that "The old temple of Ramachandra at

Janmasthanam must have been a very fine one, for many

of its columns have been used by the Musalmans in the

construction of Babar's masjid, extracted earlier. 111. One more report published by Archaeological Survey

of India published in 1889 needs to be noted, with

heading “The Sharqi Architecture of Jaunpur; with Notes

on Zafarabad, Sahet-Mahet and other places in the

 P a g e 90
North-Western Provinces and Oudh” by A. Fuhrer

(extracted earlier). 112. The A.S.I., thus, clearly state that Babar’s

Masjid at Ayodhya was built on the very spot where the

old temple Janmasthan of Ramchandra was standing. 113. Another Report was published by A.S.I. on the

Monumental Antiquities and Inscriptions in the North-

Western Provinces and Oudh by A. Fuhrer. Referring to

Ramachandra, it mentioned that Lord Ram was born there.

The Report refers that Janmasthanam Temple was

demolished and a Masjid was constructed in 930 Hijri. 114. The next Gazetteer, which has been referred and

relied is Gazetteer of Fyzabad, Vol. XLIII published

in 1905 by the Government of the United Provinces of

Agra and Oudh (extracted earlier). 115. In the “Imperial Gazetteer of India” published in

1908 with respect to Faizabad Division, extracted

earlier. P a g e 91 116. In 1928, publication of Faizabad, Gazetteer was

undertaken by H.R. Nevill, extracted earlier. 117. Archaeological Survey of India in volume “The

Monumental Antiquities and Inscriptions in the North-

Western Provinces and Oudh” in the year 1891 while

describing Faizabad district, dealing city of Ayodhya

noted that in place of important Hindu temple namely

‘Janmasthan’, a ‘Mosque’ was built during the reign of

Babur which still bears his name. It was further

mentioned that old temple must have been a very fine

one, for many of its column have been utilised by the

Musalmans in the construction of Babri Masjid. 118. The Gazetteer of “Bara Banki”, volume 48(1921),

of the District Gazetteers of the United Provinces of

Agra and Oudh mentioned about a dispute which took

place in the year 1853 between Hindu priests and

Musalmans of Ayodhya with regard to the ground on which

formerly stood the Janmasthan temple, which was

destroyed by Babar and replaced by a Mosque. Following

 P a g e 92
has been stated at page 169 of the Gazette under the

heading 'History' in chapter 5:- 119. The Gazetteer has further narrated details of a

march by Amir Ali under whom large number of Muslims

marched towards Ayodhya but were intercepted by Colonel

Barlow of First Regiment of Oudh in which large number

of persons were slained and first infantry was almost

destroyed. The Gazetteer reports that Amir Ali was also

killed. In February 1856, the kingdom of Oudh was

annexed by British government. 120. Apart from Gazetteers and books as referred above ,

there are other documentary evidences brought on record

by the parties of the suits in question. Reference can

 P a g e 93
be made to certain exhibits, certified copies obtained

from public record which are submitted in the suit. An

Application dated 28.11.1858 by Sheetal Dubey,

Thanedaar Oudh is filed as exhibit-19 in the Suit No.

1, extracted earlier. 121. Next documentary evidence brought on record is an

application dated 30.11.1858 submitted by Syed Mohammed

Khatib Moazzim Masjid Babri Sites in Oudh. In the

complaint submitted by Mohammed Khatib Moazzim of the

Babri Mosque, it was mentioned that a Nihang Singh is

creating a riot at janamsthan Masjid situated in Oudh.

Complaint mentioned that near mehrab and mimber, he has

constructed an earth chabutra inside the Mosque, 'Puja'

and 'Home' is continuing there and in whole of Masjid,

"Ram Ram" is written. The request in the complaint was

to oust the Hindus from the Mosque (extracted earlier). 122. Another document filed as exhibit 21 dated

31.12.1828 which is the report submitted by Sheetal

Dubey, Thanedar, Oudh. In the report, Sheetal Dubey has

referred the ‘Mosque’ as 'Mosque Janmasthan' (extracted

earlier). P a g e 94 123. Next exhibit relied is exhibit 31 of Suit No.1

which is an application filed by Mir Rajjabali khatib

Masjid for removal of Chabutra which was built in the

Mosque(extracted earlier). 124. The above Application itself is an evidence of

Chabutra of Hindus in the premise of Mosque and puja

being performed by blowing conch. 125. Another application was made by one Mohammed

Asghar on 12th February 1861 seeking removal of Chabutra

and hut of the Hindus from the Mosque premises. The

application was filed as exhibit 54 in suit 4. 126. The application was given on behalf of Mohammed

Asghar, Mir Rajjab Ali and muhammed Afzal, Khateeb and

Muezzin of Babri Masjid situated at Janmasthan,

Ayodhya. The application dated 12th March 1861 is

extracted earlier. 127. One important fact which may be noted from the

 P a g e 95
above application and some earlier applications which

were made on behalf of khateeb and muezzin of Babri

Mosque is that description of Babri Mosque is always

mentioned as "Babri Masjid situated at Janmasthan,

Ayodhya". 128. Exhibit A-55 filed in Suit No. 4 is report of Khem

Singh subedar dated 16.03.1861 regarding demolition of

Kutiya of Inkani Singh. 129. Exhibit A-30 filed in Suit No. 4, application

dated 25.09.1866 submitted by muhammed Afzal complaint

mentioned that Tulsidas etc. Bairagis had placed an

Idol inside the premises in 3 hours. Public complaint

was made (extracted earlier). 130. Evidence has been brought on the record to the

fact that Deputy Commissioner, Ayodhya by an order

dated 03.04.1877 has granted permission to Khem Das,

Mahant, janamsthan to open the door in the Northern

wall in the premises of Mosque. An appeal was filed by

Syed mohammed Asghar against the said order. Grounds

of the appeal have been brought on the record as exhibit

 P a g e 96
30 in Suit No. 1. The appeal also noticed that Idols

on the premises have not yet been removed. The appeal

also admits small Chulha in the premises. Ground 6 of

the appeal(exhibit-30) is as follows:- ORAL EVIDENCES:- P a g e 100
In his examination in chief, Mahant Paramhans Ram

Chander Das states:- “....Outside the west side wall of the
 disputed building there was a Parikrama
 Marg(route) close to the wall and walking
 on this route I used to perform
 Parikrama(religious round). This route was
 made walk able and some old brick were laid
 on it.....” 143. In his statement he also stated that he used to

perform Parikrama through the Parikrama Marg. P a g e 104 144. Next statement to be noticed is the statement of

OPW-5 Ram Nath Mishra who was aged 91 years(as on

06.08.2006). He claimed to have come to Ayodhya in the

Baisakh month of 1932. He used to work as “Teerth

Purohit”. In his cross-examination he states:- “...However, the public opinion is that the
 birth place of Ramji is the same i.e. Ram
 Janam Bhoomi about which a dispute is going
 on. It is wrong to say that this public
 opinion is of the twentieth century. As a
 matter of fact, it has been there since long
 as per tradition...” 150. OPW-7, Ram Surat Tiwari, 73 years of age(as on

19.09.2002), claims to have gone to Ayodhya for the

first time in the year 1932 and thereafter has been

going regularly. In his examination-in-chief, he

states: - “...Before reaching the eastern gate, my
 brother from outside the wall fitted with
 iron bars offered flowers at the building
 with three domes and gave it to me also
 which I also offered. I offered the flowers
 through the iron bars from outside only. At
 the time when I offered flowers, prasad and

 P a g e 108
 money offered by others were also lying
 there. I prostrated myself on the ground
 below the dome from outside only. I had
 asked my brother why was he offering
 flowers at that place, on which he told that
 Lord Rama was born at the place under the
 middle dome of this building. The place
 which I had visited was the one below the
 middle dome...” 153. OPW-12, Sri Kaushal Kishore Mishra, aged 75

years(as on 16.12.2002) stated to have perform worship

in Ram Janam Bhumi at the age of 14-15 years. In his

examination-in-chief he states:- 154. He futher states: - 155. In his cross-examination, he maintain “it is by

belief that he got his birth at the place where Babri

Masjid was established.” 156. Next witness OPW-13, Narad Saran, age 76 years(as

on 27.01.2003) claims to have come to Ayodhya with a

desire to become a Sadhu. In his examination-in-chief,

he states:- 157. In his cross-examination he states:- 158. DW-3/14, Jagad Guru Ramanand Acharya Swami

Haryacharya, aged 69 years(as on 23.07.2004) stated in

his cross-examination:- 159. DW-3/1, Mahant Bhaskar Das, aged 75 years(as on

29.08.2003). In his examination-in-chief, he states: - “...The place which was attached on
 22nd/23rd December, 1949 is called Ram
 janambhoomi by Hindus and Babri Masjid by
 Muslims. In the suit of Gopal Singh
 visharad also it has been called Ram Janam
 Bhoomi by Hindus and Babri Masjid by
 Muslims....” 162. He further states that “as Mecca is important for

Muslims so is Ayodhya for Hindus due to Lord Ram.” 163. PW-2 Haji Mehboob Ahmed aged 58 years, resident

of Tedhi Bazar, Ayodhya, states in his cross- examination:- 164. Mohd. Yaseen PW-4, aged 66 years (as on

07.10.1996) also states following: - Three-dome structure was treated as Birthplace of Lord

Ram. People worship of the three-dome structure,

parikrama of the entire premises by the devotees have

been amply proved by oral evidences led in the Suit. P a g e 113 167. The statements noted in all Gazetteers as noticed

above published under authority of government

categorically and unanimously state that at Janmasthan

of Lord Ram, Babri Mosque was constructed in 1528 by

Babar. It is true that statements recorded in Gazette

is not conclusive evidence but presumption of

correctness of statements recorded have to be raised

subject to being disproved by leading appropriate

evidences. All Gazettes published by the Government

authority repeats the same statement that Babri Mosque

was constructed at the Janmasthan of Lord Ram. There

is no evidence worth name led of the plaintiffs of Suit

No.4 to disprove the above statement and further, oral

evidence as noticed above clearly supports the faith

and belief of Hindus that Lord Ram was born at the

place where Babri Mosque has been constructed. The

conclusion that place of birth of Lord Ram is the three-

dome structure can, therefore, be reached. 168. Dr. Rajeev Dhawan, learned senior counsel submits

that although in oral statements it was stated by the

 P a g e 114
witnesses that birthplace of Lord Ram is below the

middle dome but infact Ram Chabutra which was outside

the three-dome structure on the left side in outer

courtyard was the birthplace of Lord Ram. He submits

that in the judgment of the suit filed in 1885 by Mahant

Raghubar Das also the Janmasthan was treated to be Ram

Chabutra. 169. The sequence of the events as noticed above

clearly indicate that faith and belief of Hindus was

that birth place of Lord Ram was in the three-dome

structure Mosque which was constructed at the

janamasthan. It was only during the British period that

grilled wall was constructed dividing the walled

premises of the Mosque into inner courtyard and outer

courtyard. Grilled iron wall was constructed to keep

Hindus outside the grilled iron wall in the outer

courtyard. In view of the construction of the iron

wall, the worship and puja started in Ram Chabutra in

the outer courtyard. Suit of 1885 was filed seeking

permission to construct temple on the said Chabutra

where worship was permitted by the British Authority. P a g e 115
Faith and belief of the Hindus as depicted by the

evidence on record clearly establish that the Hindus

belief that at the birth place of Lord Ram, the Mosque

was constructed and three-dome structure is the birth

place of Lord Ram. The fact that Hindus were by

constructing iron wall, dividing Mosque premises, kept

outside the three-dome structure cannot be said to

alter their faith and belief regarding the birth place

of Lord Ram. The worship on the Ram Chabutra in the

outer courtyard was symbolic worship of Lord Ram who

was believed to be born in the premises. 170. It is thus concluded on the conclusion that faith

and belief of Hindus since prior to construction of

Mosque and subsequent thereto has always been that

Janmaasthan of Lord Ram is the place where Babri Mosque

has been constructed which faith and belief is proved

by documentary and oral evidence discussed above. P a g e 116