SUDHANSU JYOTI MUKHOPADHAYA, J. This appeal has been preferred by the appellant - Unigreen Global

Private Limited (Corporate Debtor) against order dated 8th May, 2017 passed

by the Adjudicating Authority (National Company Law Tribunal), Principal

Bench, New Delhi whereby and whereunder the application preferred by the

appellant - Corporate Debtor under Section 10 of the Insolvency &

Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the 'I & B Code') in Form 6

of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority)

Rules, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Adjudicating Authority Rules') has

been rejected. The Adjudicating Authority has also imposed penalty of Rs.

Ten Lakhs on the appellant - Corporate Debtor under Section 65 of the I & B

Code. 2. The questions involved in this appeal are : and ii) Whether the penalty imposed by the Adjudicating Authority

 under Section 65 of the I & B Code is legal or not? Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 2 3. The brief facts of the case are that the appellant - Corporate Debtor /

Corporate Appellant filed an application under Section 10 in Form 6 for

initiation of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process against it on the ground

that it has failed to pay the debt due to financial creditors and other creditors.

On notice, Punjab National Bank (Financial Creditor) appeared and alleging

the suppression of facts on the ground that the appellant has not disclosed

the full facts and has not furnished full particulars in relation to the assets

mortgaged or the securities furnished to the financial creditors. It was also

alleged that the legal proceeding in respect of certain properties includes

Khari Baoli property has been entangled by the owners themselves. In view

of such submission the application preferred by the appellant has been

rejected. 4. Before discussing the stand taken by appellant (Corporate Debtor), it is

desirable to notice the stand taken by Respondent - Punjab National Bank. 5. According to the respondent Punjab National Bank - (Financial

Creditor) civil suits were deliberately engineered and instigated with a view to

remove the mortgaged properties from the accountability of the creditors. The

appellant kept pending the Civil Suits, such as "Mayank Maheshwari v.

Anurag Garg" - csdj/0094/2017 before the learned Additional District and

Sessions Judge, Tis Hazari District Courts, Delhi. The said suit has been filed

seeking a declaration and mandatory and permanent injunction against one

of the Directors of the Company namely Mr. Anurag Garg. It was further

alleged that subsequent to the above suit, in collusion with the plaintiff a S.A.

has been filed before DRT III alleging that two sale deeds dated 21.10.2016

with respect to basement and mezzanine floor of the said property as well as Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 3 two un-registered agreements to sell dated 1st September, 2011 had been

executed by the said Director in the capacity as owner of the property in a

petition under Section 17 of the Securitization and Reconstruction of

Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI

Act ) in diary No. 146/2017/DRT-III, thereby sought for recall of order dated

21st January, 2017 wherein the learned CMM, Tis Hazari Court was pleased

to pass an order dated 21st January, 2017 in favour of Punjab National Bank

in 'Punjab National Bank vs. M/s. Unigreen Global Private Limited' appointing

a Court receiver to take possession of the property. Pursuance of the said

order, the Financial Creditor - Punjab National Bank has already taken over

the possession of the said property. In the circumstances, it was submitted

that prayer for initiation of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process

amounts to abuse of process of law. 6. The aforesaid submission made on behalf of the 'Financial Creditor' has

been noticed by the Adjudicating Authority in the impugned order dated 8th

May, 2017, relevant of which are quoted below: 7. Having noticed the aforesaid facts, the Adjudicating Authority observed

as follows : 8. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that

the application under section 10 in Form 6 was filed with the following

documents : 9. It was also submitted that the appellant dispatched the copy of the

application under Section 10 by Registered Post to the Financial

Creditors/banks whereinafter notice was issued in terms of Rule 7 of the

Adjudicating Authority Rules, 2016. According to learned counsel for the

appellant the objections of the respondent - financial creditor/banks relating

to non-mentioning of the allied and collateral proceedings cannot be taken

into consideration by the Adjudicating Authority as the Corporate Debtor is

not involved in those proceeding/suit. It was submitted that such grounds

are beyond the scope and scrutiny of initiation of Corporate Insolvency

Resolution Process. 10. Further according to learned counsel for the Corporate Debtor as the

aforesaid informations are not contemplated under the I & B Code or the

Adjudicating Authority Rules, 2016, it is not open to the Financial Creditor/

Banks (Respondents) to raise such issue nor the Adjudicating Authority can

dismiss the application on the ground of non-disclosure of facts unrelated to

the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. 11. It was further submitted that Corporate Insolvency Resolution having

not been initiated the question of imposition of penalty under Section 65 of

the I & B Code does not arise. 12. Learned counsel for the Punjab National Bank has taken the similar

plea as was taken before the Adjudicating Authority and referred to above. It Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 8 was submitted that the following details of the mortgaged property were

supressed by the appellant : 13. It was further submitted that the appellant is not precluded in law to

initiate proceedings under the provisions of SARFAESI Act, 2002 as has been

initiated and the appellant is duty bound to bring the aforesaid facts to the

notice of the Adjudicating Authority. 14. We have heard the parties, noticed the rival contentions and perused

the record. Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 9 15. Before deliberating on the question involved, it is desirable to refer

'Statement of Objects and Reasons' of I & B Code, 2016, as noticed by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in " Innoventive Industries Ltd. Vs. ICICI Bank and

Ors. " - 2017 SCC online SC 1025 and as quoted below : 16. Hon'ble Supreme Court also noticed the Committee Reports and objects

as speed is the essence, as quoted below : The professional will manage the resolution process of
 negotiation to ensure balance of power between the
 creditors and debtor, and protect the rights of all
 creditors. The professional will ensure the reduction of
 asymmetry of information between creditors and
 debtor in the resolution process. II. The Code will enable symmetry of information between
 creditors and debtors. 5. The law must ensure that information that is essential
 for the insolvency and the bankruptcy resolution
 process is created and available when it is required. 6. The law must ensure that access to this information is
 made available to all creditors to the enterprise, either
 directly or through the regulated professional. 1 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 3 7. The law must enable access to this information to third
 parties who can participate in the resolution process,
 through the regulated professional. III. The Code will ensure a time-bound process to better
 preserve economic value. 8. The law must ensure that time value of money is
 preserved, and that delaying tactics in these
 negotiations will not extend the time set for
 negotiations at the start. IV. The Code will ensure a collective process. 9. The law must ensure that all key stakeholders will
 participate to collectively assess viability. The law
 must ensure that all creditors who have the capability
 and the willingness to restructure their liabilities must
 be part of the negotiation process. The liabilities of all
 creditors who are not part of the negotiation process
 must also be met in any negotiated solution. V. The Code will respect the rights of all creditors equally. 10. The law must be impartial to the type of creditor in
 counting their weight in the vote on the final solution in
 resolving insolvency. VI. The Code must ensure that, when the negotiations fail
 to establish viability, the outcome of bankruptcy must
 be binding. 11. The law must order the liquidation of an enterprise
 which has been found unviable. This outcome of the
 negotiations should be protected against all appeals
 other than for very exceptional cases. VII. The Code must ensure clarity of priority, and that the
 rights of all stakeholders are upheld in resolving
 bankruptcy. 1 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 4 12. The law must clearly lay out the priority of
 distributions in bankruptcy to all stakeholders. The
 priority must be designed so as to incentivise all
 stakeholders to participate in the cycle of building
 enterprises with confidence. 13. While the law must incentivise collective action in
 resolving bankruptcy, there must be a greater
 flexibility to allow individual action in resolution and
 recovery during bankruptcy compared with the phase
 of insolvency resolution." 17. In the said case, Hon'ble Supreme Court while it noticed the scheme of

the Code also noticed Section 7 , which stands in contrast with the scheme

under section 9 and observed as follows: 18. At this stage, it is desirable to compare the provisions of Section 7 with Section 10 of the I & B Code. Section 7 is as follow: section (2), ascertain the existence of a default

 from the records of an information utility or on the

 basis of other evidence furnished by the financial

 creditor under sub-section (3). (5) Where the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied

 that-- 1 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 8 (a) a default has occurred and the application

 under sub-section (2) is complete, and there is no

 disciplinary proceedings pending against the

 proposed resolution professional, it may, by

 order, admit such application; or (b) default has not occurred or the application

 under sub-section (2) is incomplete or any

 disciplinary proceeding is pending against the

 proposed resolution professional, it may, by

 order, reject such application: 19. Similar is the provision of Section 10 , which reads a follows: 20. Under both Section 7 and Section 10 , the two factors are common i.e.

the debt is due and there is a default. Sub-section (4) of Section 7 is similar

to that of sub-section (4) of Section 10 . Therefore we, hold that the law laid

down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in " Innoventive Industries Ltd. (Supra) is

applicable for Section 10 also, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed

as "The moment the adjudicating authority is satisfied that a default has

occurred, the application must be admitted unless it is incomplete, in which

case it may give notice to the applicant to rectify the defect within 7 days of

receipt of a notice from the adjudicating authority" . 21. In an application under Section 10 , the 'financial creditor' or

'operational creditor', may dispute that there is no default or that debt is not 2 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 1 due and is not payable in law or in fact. They may also oppose admission on

the ground that the Corporate Applicant is not eligible to make application in

view of ineligibility under Section 11 of the I & B Code. The Adjudicating

Authority on hearing the parties and on perusal of record, if satisfied that

there is a debt and default has occurred and the Corporate Applicant is not

ineligible under Section 11 , the Adjudicating Authority has no option but to

admit the application, unless it is incomplete, in which case the Corporate

Applicant is to be granted time to rectify the defects. 22. Section 10 does not empower the Adjudicating Authority to go beyond

the records as prescribed under Section 10 and the informations as required

to be submitted in Form 6 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to

the Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016 subject to ineligibility prescribed

under Section 11 . If all informations are provided by an applicant as required

under Section 10 and Form 6 and if the Corporate Applicant is otherwise not

ineligible under Section 11 , the Adjudicating Authority is bound to admit the

application and cannot reject the application on any other ground. 23. Any fact unrelated or beyond the requirement under I & B Code or

Forms prescribed under Adjudicating Authority Rules (Form 6 in the present

case) are not required to be stated or pleaded. Non-disclosure of any fact,

unrelated to Section 10 and Form 6 cannot be termed to be suppression of

facts or to hold that the Corporate Applicant has not come with clean hand

except the application where the 'Corporate Applicant' has not disclosed

disqualification, if any, under Section 11 . Non-disclosure of facts, such as

that the 'Corporate Debtor' is undergoing a corporate insolvency resolution 2 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 2 process; or that the 'Corporate Debtor' has completed corporate insolvency

resolution process twelve months preceding the date of making of the

application; or that the corporate debtor has violated any of the terms of

resolution plan which was approved twelve months before the date of making

of an application under the said Chapter; or that the corporate debtor is one

in respect of whom a liquidation order has already been made can be a ground

to reject the application under Section 10 on the ground of suppression of

fact/not come with clean hand. 24. 1st Respondent -financial creditor has referred to pendency of a Civil

Suit between 'Mayank Maheshwari v. Anurag Garg' and another suit between

'Sh. Jagar Nath Mehto v. Vedika Overseas Tradex Ltd.' . Pendency of such

suits cannot be a ground to deny admission of an application under Section

10 , if all the information in terms of Section 10 of the I & B Code and Form 6

has been supplied by a Corporate Applicant/Corporate Debtor and the

application is otherwise complete. Non-mentioning of suit(s) pending between

the parties cannot termed to be suppression of facts nor can be a ground to

reject the application. In fact, once the application under Section 10 is

admitted, all such related proceedings, including suits for recovery of

moveable or immovable property of the Corporate Debtor and other

proceeding cannot proceed further in any Court or Tribunal or Authority in

view of order of 'moratorium' as may be declared under Section 13 and

prohibition that may be imposed under Section 14 of I & B Code. 25. Similarly, if any action has been taken by a 'Financial Creditor' under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002 against the Corporate Debtor or a 2 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 3 suit is pending against Corporate Debtor under Section 19 of DRT Act, 1993

before a Debt Recovery Tribunal or appeal pending before the Debt Recovery

Appellate Tribunal cannot be a ground to reject an application under Section

10 , if the application is complete. 26. Any proceeding under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002 or suit

under Section 19 of the DRT Act, 1993 pending before Debt Recovery Tribunal

or appeal pending before Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal cannot proceed in

view of the order of moratorium as may be passed. 27. It is also desirable to refer to Section 238 of the I & B Code, as quoted

below : In view of the aforesaid provision also, I & B Code shall have the effect

notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law

for the time being in force including DRT Act, 1993 ; SARFAESI Act, 2002 ;

money suit etc. 28. In a case where a winding up proceedings has already been initiated

against a Corporate Debtor by the Hon'ble High Court or Tribunal or

liquidation order has been passed in respect of Corporate Debtor, no 2 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 4 application under Section 10 can be filed by the Corporate Applicant in view

of ineligibility under Section 11(d) of I & B Code, as quoted below: Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section, a

 corporate debtor includes a corporate

 applicant in respect of such corporate

 debtor." 29. In view of the aforesaid provision where a winding up proceeding has

already been initiated under the Companies Act, 1956 / 2013 by the Hon'ble

High Court such cases have not been transferred to National Company Law 2 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 5 Tribunal, pursuant to "Companies (Transfer of Pending Proceedings) Rules,

2016", framed by the Central Government. 30. Clause (d) of Section 11 refers to "liquidation order", against a

Corporate Debtor. The word 'winding up' has not been mentioned therein.

For the said reason by Section 255 read with Schedule 11 of the I & B Code,

in Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 for clause (23), the following clause

has been substituted : Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 6 31. By aforesaid amendment, the legislatures have made it clear that the

word "winding up" mentioned in the Companies Act, 2013 is synonymous to

the word "liquidation" as mentioned in the I & B Code. 32. In view of the provisions aforesaid, we hold that, if any winding up

proceeding has been initiated against the Corporate Debtor by the Hon'ble

High Court or Tribunal or liquidation order has been passed, in such case

the application under Section 10 is not maintainable. However, mere

pendency of a petition for winding up, where no order of winding up or order

of liquidation has been passed, cannot be ground to reject the application

under Section 10 . 33. In this case, it is not the case of the Financial Creditor/Respondent

that a winding up proceeding under the Companies Act or liquidation

proceeding under the I & B Code has been initiated against the Corporate

Debtor. Therefore, the Corporate Applicant is eligible to file application

under Section 10 , if there is a debt and default. 34. Further, as we find that the Adjudicating Authority has noticed the

extraneous factors unrelated to the Resolution process not required to be

disclosed in terms of Section 10 or Form 6 and as the suits referred to relate

to dispute between third parties, and not the Corporate Debtor, we hold that

the Adjudicating Authority erred in rejecting the application on the ground of

suppression of facts. 35. To decide the question, whether impugned order of penalty imposed by

the Adjudicating Authority under Section 65 of the I & B Code is in accordance

with law or not it is desirable to notice the provision, as quoted below: 2 (2) If, any person initiates voluntary liquidation

 proceedings with the intent to defraud any person, the

 Adjudicating Authority may impose upon such person a

 penalty which shall not be less than one lakh rupees

 but may extend to one crore rupees." 36. Sub-section (11) of Section 5 defines "initiation date" i.e. the date of

initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process and reads as follows: If sub-section (11) of Section 5 is read with Section 65 it is clear that if

a 'Financial Creditor', or 'Corporate Applicant' or 'Operational Creditor' makes

an application to the Adjudicating authority for initiating Corporate

Resolution Process or liquidation proceedings fraudulently or with malicious 2 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 8 intent for any purpose other than for the resolution of insolvency, or

liquidation, the Adjudicating Authority may impose upon such person a

penalty which shall not be less than one lakh rupees, but may extend to one

crore rupees in terms of sub-section (1) of Section 65. Similarly, if any person

such as Corporate Applicant initiates voluntary liquidation proceedings with

the intent to defraud any person, the Adjudicating Authority may impose

upon such person a penalty which shall not be less than one lakh rupees but

may extend to one crore rupees in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 65. 37. From the aforesaid provision, it is clear that for imposition of penalty

under Section 65, the Adjudicating Authority on the basis of record is required

to form prima facie opinion that the person (Financial Creditor / Corporate

Applicant / Operational Applicant) has filed the petition for initiation of

proceeding "fraudulently" or "with malicious intent" for the purpose other

than the resolution of the insolvency or liquidation or that voluntary

liquidation proceedings has been filed with the intent to defraud any person. 38. No such penalty under sub-section (1) or (2) of Section 65 can be

imposed by the Adjudicating Authority without recording opinion for coming

to the conclusion that a prima facie case is made out to suggest that the

person "fraudulently" or "with malicious intent" for the purpose, other than

the resolution insolvency or liquidation or with the intent to defraud any

person has filed the application. 39. Section 424 of the Companies Act, 2013 is applicable to the

proceedings under I & B Code, as held by this Appellate Tribunal in M/s. Innoventive Industries Ltd. Vs. ICICI Bank & Anr. in Company Appeal (AT) 2 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 9 (Insolvency) No. 1 & 2 of 2017. In view of the aforesaid provision if the

Adjudicating Authority prima facie comes to a conclusion that a case is made

out to impose penalty under sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 65, after

recording its prima facie reasons the Adjudicating Authority is required to give

reasonable opportunity of hearing to the person concerned, so as to enable

the person to explain his case. 40. There is nothing on record to suggest that the Corporate Applicant has

suppressed any fact or has not come with the clean hands. The Adjudicating

Authority has also not held that the application has been filed by the

Corporate Applicant "fraudulently" or "with malicious intent" for any purpose

other than for the resolution process or liquidation or that the voluntary

liquidation proceedings have been initiated with the intent to defraud any

person. In absence of any such reasons recorded by the Adjudicating

Authority the impugned order cannot be upheld. 41. Further, as the Adjudicating Authority before imposing penalty under

Section 65 has not given nor served any notice to the Corporate Applicant

recording its prima facie view and intent to punish the Corporate Applicant,

the impugned order dated 8th May, 2017 cannot be upheld having been

passed in violation of rules of natural justice. 42. For the reasons aforesaid, the impugned order dated 8th May, 2017

passed in C.P. No. IB-39(PB)/2017 is set aside. The case is remitted back to

the Adjudicating Authority for admission of the application under Section 10 , 3 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 0 if the application is otherwise complete. In case it is incomplete, the

Adjudicating Authority will grant time to the appellant to remove the defects. 43. At this stage, it is desirable to state that the Central Government in

Form 1 or 5 or 6 of the 'Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to

Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016', has not provision for the parties to state

whether any winding up proceeding has been initiated or liquidation order

has been passed against the Corporate Debtor or not. No provision has been

made there in for the parties to state whether any of clause of Section 11 is

attracted or not. 44. Non-disclosure of such relevant facts in the relevant Form 6, may be a

ground to reject the application but a person can plead that the Form does

not stipulate to disclose any ineligibility under Section 11 . Therefore, we are

of the view that the Central Government should make necessary amendment

in the relevant Form 6 appended to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy

(Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016, which will enable the

Adjudicating Authority to decide at the time of admission whether any fact

has been suppressed or the person has come with the clean hand or not. We

hope and trust that appropriate modification of the relevant Rules and Forms

shall be made by the Central Government. 45. In the meantime, the Adjudicating Authority may direct the Financial

Creditors / Corporate Applicant to file an affidavit giving declaration in terms

of Section 11 of the I & B Code and to state whether any winding up

proceeding has been initiated or liquidation order has been passed by any

High Court or Tribunal or Adjudicating Authority or not. The appeal 3 Comp. App. (AT) (Insolvency) No. 81/2017 1 is allowed with the aforesaid observations. However, there shall be no order

as to costs.