SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Today i was threatened with suicide and blackmail because i didnt do someone else's work
DATE: 2019-02-20
SCORE: 28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/asq4ca/today_i_was_threatened_with_suicide_and_blackmail/

--- POST TEXT ---

Leaned a lesson that no one should be helped for anything. Nobody deserves free help and trust no one. 

Story: 

So im a BDS intern. The end date of my internship is on the 25th after which i will get my registration and certificate. Got 9 departments and i already got clearance from 7. In one dept, i have already finished my work quota months back. 

Let me preface this saying that im very good at computer stuffs and i have done a few things for the college itself as official promo work [for free of course]. Now a clinical tutor in this dept [community dentistry dept] knows how good i am. Yesterday she called me to do the video project of a fellow female intern. Now i have always been taught by my mom to help people no matter what which will only be helpful for my life. So, while i already told this girl no, because a teacher asked a favor [she used the word] i decided to do it, despite my best friend signalling not to do it. In return for my work the teacher promised to choose me over another intern for the last quota thing.

Finished it and brought it today. The Teacher asked for only one 3 second audio change. I agreed to edit it. But now when the time of the work came she just suddenly forgot she made a promise and told me i was acting as a child. It hurt me a bit to see a teacher lie [no one likes this woman, she doesnt even respect the Dept HoD to honor his request. Even student has a problem with her.] but i said ok and left. I told the intern girl to do the editing herself and i even told her the steps. She wenmt and complained to the teacher that im not doing the project which im not obligated to do anyway. I could have refused but i did it. Teacher called and asked me very rudely why i wont do her work. Now i was angry and told her in a slightly raised voice that i felt exploited and i dont want to do it anymore. 
She suddenly started shouting and told i shouldnt talk to her like that. Then she said he wouldnt give me clearance. Blood rushed in my head and i stormed out after she told me to leave. My friend tried to calm me down a lot and when i was leaving i told them if needed ill call my parents because she doesnt have the right [she doesnt. HoD has a right but he likes me a lot and gives me a lot of leeway.].

Came home. decided to post here asking for a video editor's to know how much they take for these stuffs [deleted that and posted one again a few hours ago because it got no attention. Seems like i lose out a lot of money for doing things for free.] My Best friend called to tell me that the girl went to ask my ex for help and to cut my name off from the project [i was allowed to credit myself] and she said a lot of bad things about me to her [told this story here before. How i was used by this ex to get another guy she liked to propose her.]

Around 4 pm i got a call from that girl asking what software i use. I told her everything very calmly.

Few hours later my friend calls again to tell me that the girl told him that she went to my ex but as soon as she saw my name she kicked the girl out of the house. Distraught, she decided to commit suicide but her mom told to make me do her video to which they decided they would blackmail me instead [her parents will come to the college to get me in trouble.] 

[Important Tangent: 4 weeks ago i was talking to this girl about how lonely i am for the 14th. and how great it would have been if i could control my social anxiety to just ask my crush out or HER or another girl i liked from teh college. She thought i was asking her out and i said no. She plans to use those texts to blackmail me.]

Anyway. Told mom because this was a serious charge. She told to just do the damn edit and give it to her and i was a fool to help anyone. I couldnt believe she said that because she taught me to help people!

I tried to help someone. A good deed. Now im in trouble of not getting cleared and these blackmail thing is happening. Never thought it would cost me this much. I will never help anyone again, doesnt matter if they are dying in front of my eyes or not.