Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MMO No. 934 of 2024
 Reserved on: 24.03.2025
 Date of Decision: 04th April 2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes

 For the Petitioners : Mr. Sudhir Thakur, Senior
 Advocate, with Mr. Somesh
 Sharma, Advocate. For Respondent No.1/State : Mr. Ajit Sharma, Deputy
 Advocate General. For Respondent No.2 : Mr. Yuyutsu Thakur, Advocate.

 Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 quashing of FIR No. 30 of 2023, dated 22.09.2023, for the

 commission of offences punishable under Sections 498A, 504 and

 506 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) registered

 at Police Station Bilaspur, District Bilaspur, H.P. 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 ) 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

petition are that respondent No.2/informant made a complaint to

the police asserting that she was married to Amit Behal on

23.01.2022 as per Hindu Rites and Customs. Her parents and

relatives gave her gifts and ornaments at the time of her marriage.

Her husband, father-in-law, and sister-in-law started

compelling her to conceive a child three days after the marriage.

She told them that her husband was serving in Bangalore, she had

also passed M.Sc. Biotech, and she would think of conceiving a

child after getting employment. Her father-in-law and sister-in-

law instigated her husband, who started beating and abusing her.

Her father-in-law sent her to Bangalore in April, where she

resided with her husband for one and a half months. Her husband

used to taunt her on trivial matters. He used to send her videos to

his father. His father used to instigate him, and he used to beat the

informant. She was sent to Una. Her husband remained with her at

Una for one and a half months. She became pregnant. She was not

provided with food and balanced nutrition. She was also not taken

to the hospital for her medical check-up. Her father-in-law used

to hand over ₹ 100/- to her with a direction to visit the hospital.

Her sister-in-law was a nurse in the hospital, but she never 3 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

assisted the informant during her checkup. She used to incite the

informant's husband and father-in-law against her. She wanted

to reside in Bangalore at the time of the delivery of the child, but

she was not taken to Bangalore. She was sent to her parental

home, where she delivered a baby girl. Her husband visited the

hospital on the third day and left for Una the next morning. Her

father-in-law and sister-in-law did not visit the hospital. Her

husband, her father-in-law and sister-in-law used to tell her that

she had not brought anything with her and her parents had sent

her empty-handed. Surinder Kaur used to visit her matrimonial

home. She also used to abuse and threaten her. Her father-in-law

had an evil eye upon her. The police registered the FIR, conducted

the investigation and filed a charge sheet against the petitioner

Amit Behal, Hari Om and Vandana for the commission of offences

punishable under Sections 498A , 504 , and 506 read with Section

34 of IPC and Surinder Kaur for the commission of offences

punishable under Section 504 and 506 read with Section 34 of IPC. 3. Being aggrieved by the filing of the charge sheet, the

petitioners have filed the present petition for quashing the FIR

and consequent proceedings. It has been asserted that petitioner

No.1 was posted at Bangalore. Respondent No.2 also resided with 4 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

him for one and a half years at Bangalore. She was casually paying

visits to her matrimonial home as she was not interested in

visiting her matrimonial home. Petitioner No. 2 (since deceased)

was aged 63 years, and he was suffering from various ailments.

Petitioner No. 3-Vandana was married in the year 2015. She is

residing in her matrimonial home in village Batala and is working

as a female health worker at Health Sub Centre Jalgura, Tehsil and

District Una. She is the mother of two children aged 6 and 2 years.

She visited her parental home occasionally. Petitioner No.4

Surinder Kaur is a former Municipal Councillor. She has nothing

to do with the affairs of petitioner No.1. The allegations against

the petitioners are ambiguous without pinpointing any act of

cruelty. Petitioner No.4 was wrongly arrayed as a party even

though she has no concern with the family of petitioner No.1. The

allegations in the FIR and the contents of the charge sheet do not

make out any case against the petitioners. Petitioner No.1 Amit

Behal has filed a divorce petition, which is pending before the

learned Principal Judge, Family Court, Una. He has also filed a

complaint to the Home Minister of India against the false lodging

of an FIR. The informant quarreled with petitioner No.1 on petty

matters. She claimed that she was more educated than the 5 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

petitioner No.1. She also told that she did not want to reside with

petitioner No.1. She made false allegations against the petitioners.

The allegations are not substantiated by any documents. They

refer to the incidents which occur generally in the family. She has

attempted to implicate all the family members to settle her score,

therefore, it was prayed that the present petition be allowed and

FIR and consequential proceedings arising out of the same be

quashed. 4. The petition is opposed by respondent No.1 by filing a

reply making preliminary submissions regarding the lack of

maintainability and the petitioners being estopped to file the

present petition on account of their conduct, acts and omissions.

The contents of the petition were denied on merits; however, it

was admitted that a complaint was made by the informant to the

police, on which an FIR was registered. It was asserted that police

filed a charge sheet after the conclusion of the investigation and

presented it in the Court of the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Bilaspur. The matter was listed on 19.10.2024 for the office report.

The allegations were found to be correct during the investigation.

The complaint was received from the Under Secretary (Home) to

the Government of India, which was properly investigated. The 6 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

Investigating Officer tried to contact petitioners No.1 and 3

telephonically. The mobile phone of the petitioner No.1 was found

switched off, and the petitioner No.3 did not pick up the mobile

phone. There is sufficient evidence against the petitioners to show

their involvement in the commission of the crime; hence, it was

prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 5. A rejoinder denying the contents of the reply and

affirming those of the petition was filed. 6. I have heard Mr. Sudhir Thakur, learned Senior

Counsel, assisted by Mr. Somesh Sharma, learned counsel for the

petitioners, Mr. Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General, for

the respondent/State and Mr. Yuyutsu Thakur, learned counsel for

respondent No.2/Complainant. 7. Mr. Sudhir Thakur, learned Senior Counsel for the

petitioners, submitted that respondent No.2/informant made a

false complaint against the petitioners. The allegations in the FIR

are vague and general. They do not contain any particulars of date

and time. The continuation of the proceedings against the

petitioners amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court;

therefore, he prayed that the present petition be allowed and the 7 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

FIR and consequential proceedings arising out of the same be

quashed. He relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Kahkashan Kausar and others. vs. State of Bihar and ors,

2022 (6) SCC 599 and Dara Lakshmi Narayana v. State of Telangana,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682 in support of his submission. 8. Mr. Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General, for

the respondent No.1/State, submitted that the FIR contains

specific allegations regarding the informant's harassment. These

allegations were corroborated by the statements of witnesses.

Learned Trial Court is seized of the matter and this Court should

not exercise the jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. in the

present case; hence, he prayed that the present petition be

dismissed. 9. Mr. Yuyutsu Thakur, learned counsel for respondent

No.2/informant, submitted that the petitioners had harassed the

informant. She was not provided with the necessities of life. She

was beaten at the instance of petitioner No.3. These allegations

prima facie show the cruelty committed by the petitioners upon

the informant, therefore, he prayed that the present petition be

dismissed. Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 ) 10. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 11. The law relating to quashing of FIR was explained by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in B.N. John v. State of U.P. , 2025 SCC

OnLine SC 7 as under: - Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

(2) Where the allegations in the first information
report and other materials, if any, accompanying
the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence,
justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an order of
a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in
the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in
support of the same do not disclose the
commission of any offence and make out a case
against the accused. (4) Where the allegations in the FIR do not constitute
a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-
cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
police officer without an order of a Magistrate as
contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code.
(5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or
complaint are so absurd and inherently
improbable on the basis of which no prudent
person can ever reach a just conclusion that there
is sufficient ground for proceeding against the
accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in
any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act
(under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to
the institution and continuance of the proceedings
and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code
or the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for
the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
attended with mala fide and/or where the
proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the
accused and with a view to spite him due to a
private and personal grudge." (emphasis added) 10 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 ) 8. Of the aforesaid criteria, clause no. (1), (4) and (6) would
 be of relevance to us in this case. In clause (1) it has been mentioned that where the
 allegations made in the first information report or the
 complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and
 accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any
 offence or make out a case against the accused, then the FIR
 or the complaint can be quashed. As per clause (4), where the allegations in the FIR do not
 constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-
 cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a police
 officer without an order dated by the Magistrate as
 contemplated under Section 155 (2) of the CrPC, and in such
 a situation, the FIR can be quashed. Similarly, as provided under clause (6), if there is an
 express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of
 the CrPC or the concerned Act under which the criminal
 proceedings are instituted, such proceedings can be
 quashed." 12. This position was reiterated in Ajay Malik v. State of

Uttarakhand , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 185, wherein it was observed: 13. The present petition is to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 14. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu

Chopra v. Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC 184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 286: 2009 SCC

OnLine SC 1693 that the Court has to see that particulars of the

offences committed by every accused and the role played by the

accused in committing the offence are given in the complaint

made to the police. It was observed: - 15. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false

implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It was

observed: Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 ) 18. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v.

State of A.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the

phenomenon of false implication by a general omnibus allegation

in the case of a matrimonial dispute is not unknown to the Court.

When the allegations are general and omnibus, the prosecution

should not be continued. It was observed: - 19. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 2621, that general and vague allegations of cruelty made

against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
SCC 184, this court observed that: xxxx 12. The complaint also refers to a small incident where the
complainant's brother accompanied her to the matrimonial
house when appellants no. 1 and 3 are alleged to have
refused to take her back, but on persuasion by her brother,
she was allowed to stay. There is also a vague allegation
that, when the complainant gave birth to a second child,
appellants 1 and 2 came and "quarrelled" with the
complainant, her brother, and her parents and threatened
them. This Court had occasion to examine the phenomenon
of general and omnibus allegations in the cases of
matrimonial disputes. In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State
of A.P. 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: xxxx
13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,
this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when
parties are forced to go through the tribulations of a trial
based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant
portion of the observation is as under: Furthermore, no specific and distinct allegations
 have been made against either of the appellants
 herein, i.e. none of the appellants have been
 attributed any specific role in furtherance of the
 general allegations made against them. This simply
 leads to a situation wherein one fails to ascertain the
 role played by each accused in furtherance of the
 offence. The allegations are, therefore, general and
 omnibus and can, at best, be said to have been made
 out on account of small skirmishes... However, as far
 as the appellants are concerned, the allegations made
 against them, being general and omnibus, do not
 warrant prosecution. 21. ...it would be unjust if the appellants are forced to
 go through the tribulations of a trial, i.e. general and
 omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a situation
 where the relatives of the complainant's husband are
 forced to undergo trial. It has been highlighted by this
 Court in varied instances that a criminal trial leading
 to an eventual acquittal also inflicts severe scars upon
 the accused, and such an exercise must, therefore, be
 discouraged." 20. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi Narayana

v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682, wherein it was

observed: 21. Similar is the judgment in Geddam Jhansi v. State of

Telangana , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 263, wherein it was observed: 22. In the present case, the informant made a specific

allegation that her husband, father-in-law and sister-in-law

started compelling her to conceive a child after three days of her 24 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

marriage. When she expressed her desire to get employment, she

was beaten by her husband at the instance of her father-in-law

and sister-in-law. It further mentions that when the informant

went to Bangalore to reside with her husband, her husband used

to taunt her on trivial matters. He used to send her videos to her

father-in-law, who used to instigate him. Her husband used to

abuse and threaten her. He used to throw away the utensils, beat

and abuse her. She further mentioned that she was not provided

with proper food and a balanced meal. Her sister-in-law used to

instigate her husband and her father-in-law. She wanted to reside

in Bangalore, but she was not taken by her husband. Her husband

visited the hospital after three days of the delivery, and no other

person visited the hospital. Her husband, her father-in-law and

sister-in-law asked her what she had brought, and told her that

she was sent empty-handed. 23. These allegations mention the role played by each of

the petitioners and the nature of the acts done by them. They do

not mention specific dates, but the dates can be ascertained from

the allegations, like after three days of her marriage, after one and

a half months of her marriage, and during her pregnancy, etc.

Therefore, it cannot be said that the allegations made against 25 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

petitioner No.1 and petitioner No.3 are vague and uncertain. They

contain specific particulars to prima facie establish their role in the

commission of the crime. Hence, the FIR cannot be quashed qua

petitioners Nos. 1 and 3. 24. The informant stated that petitioner No.4 used to abuse

and harass her. She has not mentioned the abuses given by

petitioner No.4. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vikram Johar v. State of U.P. , (2019) 14 SCC 207: (2019) 4 SCC (Cri)

795: 2019 SCC OnLine SC 609 that mere abuse is not sufficient to

attract Section 504 of IPC. It was observed at page 217: - One of the essential elements constituting the offence
 is that there should have been an act or conduct
 amounting to intentional insult, and the mere fact
 that the accused abused the complainant, as such, is
 not sufficient by itself to warrant a conviction under Section 504 IPC." 23. In another judgment, i.e. Manik Taneja v. State of
Karnataka [Manik Taneja v. State of Karnataka, (2015) 7 SCC
423: (2015) 3 SCC (Cri) 132], this Court has again occasion to
examine the ingredients of Sections 503 and 506. In the
above case also, a case was registered for the offence under Sections 353 and 506 IPC. After noticing Section 503, which
defines criminal intimidation, this Court laid down the
following in paras 11 and 12 : (SCC pp. 427-28)
 "11.***
 A reading of the definition of "criminal intimidation" 12. In the instant case, the allegation is that the
 appellants have abused the complainant and
 obstructed the second respondent from discharging
 his public duties and spoiled the integrity of the
 second respondent. It is the intention of the accused
 that has to be considered in deciding as to whether
 what he has stated comes within the meaning of 28 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

 "criminal intimidation". The threat must be with the
 intention to cause alarm to the complainant to cause
 that person to do or omit to do any work. Mere
 expression of any words without any intention to
 cause alarm would not be sufficient to bring in the
 application of this section. But material has to be
 placed on record to show that the intention is to cause
 alarm to the complainant. From the facts and
 circumstances of the case, it appears that there was
 no intention on the part of the appellants to cause
 alarm in the mind of the second respondent causing
 obstruction in the discharge of his duty. As far as the
 comments posted on Facebook are concerned, it
 appears that it is a public forum meant for helping the
 public, and the act of the appellants posting a
 comment on Facebook may not attract ingredients of
 criminal intimidation in Section 503 IPC." In the above case , the allegation was that the appellant had
abused the complainant. The Court held that the mere fact
that the allegation that the accused had abused the
complainant does not satisfy the ingredients of Section 506 IPC. 24. Now, we revert back to the allegations in the complaint
against the appellant. The allegation is that the appellant,
with two or three other unknown persons, one of whom was
holding a revolver, came to the complainant's house and
abused him in filthy language and attempted to assault him,
and when some neighbours arrived there, the appellant and
the other persons accompanying him fled the spot. The
above allegation, taking on its face value, does not satisfy
the ingredients of Sections 504 and 506 as has been
enumerated by this Court in the above two judgments. The
intentional insult must be of such a degree that should
provoke a person to break the public peace or to commit any
other offence. The mere allegation that the appellant came
and abused the complainant does not satisfy the ingredients
as laid down in para 13 of the judgment of this Court
in Fiona Shrikhande [Fiona Shrikhande v. State of 29 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

 Maharashtra, (2013) 14 SCC 44 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 715]. 25. This position was reiterated in B.V. Ram Kumar v. State

of Telangana , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 275 wherein it was observed: 14. We may also indicate that it is not the law that the
 actual words or language should figure in the complaint.
 One has to read the complaint as a whole and, by doing
 so, if the Magistrate comes to a conclusion, prima facie,
 that there has been an intentional insult so as to provoke
 any person to break the public peace or to commit any
 other offence, that is sufficient to bring the complaint
 within the ambit of Section 504 IPC. It is not the law that 30 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

 a complainant should verbatim reproduce each word or
 words capable of provoking the other person to commit
 any other offence. The background facts, circumstances, the
 occasion, the manner in which they are used, the person or
 persons to whom they are addressed, the time, the conduct of
 the person who has indulged in such actions are all relevant
 factors to be borne in mind while examining a complaint
 lodged for initiating proceedings under Section 504 IPC." (emphasis supplied) 20. Thus, upon reading the complaint as a whole, if the
Magistrate comes to a conclusion, prima facie, that there has
been an intentional insult made by the accused to the
complainant so as to provoke the latter to break the public
peace or to commit any other offence, then only the act
complained of would fall within the ambit of Section 504 , IPC. The law does not mandate that the
complainant should verbatim reproduce each word or words
capable of provoking him/her to commit breach of peace or
any other offence. The background facts, circumstances, the
occasion, the manner in which the offending words are
used, the person to whom they are addressed, the time, the
conduct of the person who has indulged in such actions are
all relevant factors to be borne in mind while examining a
complaint lodged for initiating proceedings under Section 504 , IPC. 21. Further, this Court in the case of Mohammad
Wajid v. State of U.P. 2023 SCC Online SC 951, while discussing Section 504 , IPC, propounded the test for considering the
circumstances wherein, an abusive language takes the form
and shape of an intentional insult and held thus: -- 22. Needless to say, that mere abuse, discourtesy, rudeness
or insolence does not amount to an intentional insult within
the meaning of Section 504 , IPC. Furthermore, it would be
immaterial that the person who has been insulted and 32 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

provoked did not actually break the peace or commit any
offence. 23. Section 504 , IPC consists of two parts. Firstly, the actus
reus- being the intentional insult which gives rise to the
provocation. Secondly, the mens rea, i.e., the intention or
knowledge on the part of the accused that such intentional
provocation is likely to cause the person insulted to break
public peace or commit any other offence. The animus
nocendi in Section 504 , IPC is that the accused should
'intentionally insult' the other person with the intention or
knowledge that the provocation caused by such insult is
likely to result in the commission of breach of public peace
or any other offence by the person who has been so insulted.
The offence is said to be complete once the accused person
makes 'intentional insult' with the aforesaid mens rea.
Hence, intention or knowledge on the part of accused
person that his actions of making 'intentional insult' have
the potential to provoke the person insulted is sine qua
non for the commission of the offence under Section 504 , IPC. 24. The natural corollary of the above discussion is that if
the accused does not intend to give provocation, the offence
is not made out. An insult without an 'intention to insult' is
not punishable under Section 504 , IPC. Further, 'intentional
insult' must be of such a degree that it has the potential to
provoke a reasonable person to break the public peace or to
commit any other offence. 25. It is trite that whether the person provoked further
commits an illegal act or not is immaterial to draw the
conclusion of culpability under Section 504 , IPC. The
'intentional insult' and provocation must be so proximate
and close that the accused has either the intention or the
knowledge that the intentional insult made by him is likely
to cause the provoked person to break public peace or
commit some other offence. However, what would be the
nature of 'intentional insult' causing provocation, to draw
culpability under Section 504 , IPC would depend upon the 33 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

 facts and circumstances of each case. The test to be applied
 to determine if the intentional insult made by the accused is
 sufficient to cause provocation is that of a reasonable
 person, i.e., if the insult is sufficient to provoke any
 reasonable person to break peace or commit any other
 offence, only then the accused will be liable for the offence
 under Section 504 , IPC." 26. Therefore, in view of the binding precedent, the

allegations of abuse are not sufficient. The police have also filed

the charge sheet against petitioner No.4 for the commission of an

offence punishable under Section 506 of the IPC for criminal

intimidation. Criminal intimidation is provided in Section 503 of

IPC as under: - Explanation- A threat to injure the reputation of any
 deceased person in whom the person threatened is
 interested is within this section. 27. Section 503 requires that the threat of injury should

have been with an intent to cause alarm to a person, to do an act,

which a person is not legally bound to do or omit to do any act

which he is legally entitled to do. The informant did not state that 34 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 )

any alarm was caused in her mind. She has not stated that she was

prevented from doing something, which she was legally bound to

do or omit to do something, which she was bound to do. Hence,

the necessary ingredient of Section 506 of IPC is not satisfied. 28. It was laid down by the Hon'ble High Court in Inder

Pratap Singh Versus State of Himachal Pradesh 2003 (1) Crimes 345

(HC) that the complainant should have been alarmed by the threat

advanced by the accused to attract Section 506 of IPC. It was

observed: 29. Similar is the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vikram Johar (supra) wherein it was held at page 209:- 30. In the present case, there is no allegation that the

informant was alarmed by the threats advanced by petitioner no.

4; hence, no case is made out against petitioner No.4 for the

commission of an offence punishable under Section 506 of the

IPC. 31. It was submitted that false averments were made in the

complaint made to the police. This Court cannot go into the

truthfulness or otherwise of the allegations made in the

complaint. This position was laid down in Maneesha Yadav v. State

of U.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 643 wherein it was held: - 32. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dharambeer Kumar Singh v. State of Jharkhand , (2025) 1 SCC 392: 33. Hence, it is not permissible for the Court to go into the

truthfulness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR. 38 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:9270 ) 34. It was submitted that the complaint was made to the

Home Minister against the informant. The police specifically

stated that they investigated into the complaint but found no truth

in it. Otherwise also, the truthfulness or the falsity of the

complaint is not to be adjudicated in these proceedings and the

petitioners are free to prove the same during the trial. 35. A charge sheet has been filed before the Court. The

learned Trial Court is seized of the matter. It was laid down by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Iqbal v. State of U.P. , (2023) 8 SCC 734: 36. No other point was urged. 37. Consequently, the present petition is partly allowed

and the FIR and the consequential proceedings qua petitioner No.4

are ordered to be quashed. The proceedings will continue qua

petitioners No. 1 and 3. 38. Parties through their respective counsel are directed to

appear before learned Trial Court on 28.04.2025. 39. The observations made hereinabove are regarding the

disposal of this petition and will have no bearing whatsoever on

the case's merits. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 4 April,2025
 th
 Judge
 (Saurav Pathania)