SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: The stolen election
DATE: 2025-02-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1is1t30/the_stolen_election/

--- POST TEXT ---

Just after the Maharashtra election in November, someone had asked me to provide a clear elaboration for my claim that it was a stolen election. I didn't understand that, because it seemed crystal clear and so many people were speaking about it. But now, after the same pattern very predictably repeated itself in Delhi, someone again requested me to do a succinct overview of how elections are being stolen. Even though many have spoken about it, there don't seem to be any pieces that provide this overview (none that I've come across anyway). All I've really done here is to put information together, all of it from the public domain. Since, in my view, this is the only subject people should be speaking of in the context of Indian politics, and no other, here goes: 

There were serious discrepancies in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections itself. There were many oral testimonies about disenfranchisement of voters in constituencies where BJP were not strong, and there were doubts raised about EVMs as well. This was two years after similar murmurs in the 2017 UP elections as well. After the 2019 elections, there were more than a few such rumblings in the air, but none of it became anything else. 

In July 2023, Dr Sabyasachi Das of Ashoka University published a report called "Democratic Backsliding in the World’s Largest Democracy" which outlined two manipulations in detail that were carried out in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 
1) Registration manipulation, which is the padding of the electoral roll. By adding and deleting voters strategically. By manufacturing fake voters, most, if not all, of whom vote for the BJP. 
2) Turnout manipulation, which is the addition of voter tallies after the polls have closed - jacking it up by 5 to 10%, most, if not all, of whom vote for the BJP. 

Examples were given, claims supported. Less than a month after the report was published, Ashoka University was raided and given a strict warning by the Government. Dr Sabyasachi Das was fired (formally, he resigned). Thus giving a clear signal to all universities, even institutions in India, to not pursue any research pertaining to the electoral system in India. Is this not even enough to raise suspicions and for it to be the biggest news in the nation? (Note: Dr Das now works in an Ahmedabad-based university and this above-mentioned paper is referred to in his CV as a "working paper" with the following descriptor - "The paper has received a lot of critical commentary on social media. I wish to address them substantively. I have been working on a response document to that effect, while simultaneously revising the paper with additional robustness checks and other analyses. All updates will be posted here." Nothing yet, of course.) 

In fact, Dr Das had not even elaborated on yet another large-scale manipulation - EVM manipulation. Post-2017, the EC had systematically dismantled the VVPAT verification (which is the paper trail of all votes). The simple way to resolve this would have been to match the VVPAT slips and do an independent counting of those (even a 30% random sampling is adequate, according to statisticians, if done with honesty). Every single conversation should really just stop here. There isn't a single reasonable argument that can be made for not matching VVPAT slips, not one, not even partially ("it'll take more time to get the final result" is a laughable attempt). Unless manipulation is the sole goal. Again, why isn't this singular issue the biggest news in the nation? 

The ECI and the Supreme Court have kept stonewalling all demands to use the VVPATs thus. In end-2018, the case had come in front of Justice Chandrachud, under whose aegis, a 0.5% sampling was deemed adequate (that is, checking VVPATs from a solitary booth in an average constituency that often has 250-300 booths) when the recommended percentage was 30%, which is what the Opposition demanded before the 2019 national election. But even this absurdly low percentage, that could easily be manipulated, wasn't ratified. This time, Justice Gogoi ruled before polling there was no time to go into the "integrity of EVMs" before the elections. So, the 2019 elections happened without VVPAT. Exactly the same modus operandi was followed for the next elections 5 years later. In end-2022, Justice Chandrachud became CJI, and he deliberately stalled for time, by sending the case demanding VVPAT to a single-judge bench first, then a two-judge bench, as if this was not the most important issue in front of the nation. The media, not even the non-legacy, "liberal" media, pushed back against this adequately. Predictably, the matter was only ruled upon in April 2024, after 3 phases of polling had happened. Of course there was no time again to look into this. No VVPAT. Again, the media almost entirely ignored this issue, or did not give it the urgency this warranted. Indian Express categorically sabotaged a detailed article on this by former bureaucrat MG Devasahayam.

So, here is the overview of election manipulation in India, with examples. (Am using all examples from the public domain - some of which I have quoted in previous posts). 

1) 
ON A REGISTRATION LEVEL - essentially, voters known to vote for the opposition are deleted (or chunks in constituencies skewing thus). And bogus voters added. 

It is very easy to catch this because of the time-frame of the constituents of this exercise. In Delhi, for example, between 2020 and 2024, 4.16 lakh voters were registered. But between just June 2024 and January 2025, 3.62 lakh voters were added in 7 months. This fits a perfect pattern in this game. And then almost 25% of voters were removed from the voter lists (which Kejriwal had made a big noise about publicly, by bringing examples forward, but what did he expect would happen after Maharashtra?)

Independent constituencies make this story even clearer. In Kejriwal's constituency, about 39,500 voters reduced magically, according to ECI numbers. In 2020, Kejriwal had won by 21,000 voters. In 2025, he lost by 4000 votes. In Mundka constituency, registered voters increased by about 14,200 in 4 years (2020-2024). But in the last 7 months, that tally increased by about 17,500. In 2020, AAP had won by 19,000 votes. In 2025, BJP won by 11,800 votes. Again, in Shahdara, voter tally increased by about 4500 in 4 years. But in just 7 months, it increased by 7,300. The BJP candidate won by 5100 votes. (In fact, these above figures actually seem to suggest that AAP might even have been more popular in 2025 than they were in 2020). 

Look at Maharashtra, where this happened on an even bigger scale. Between 2019 and 2024, 37 lakh more voters were registered. But in the five months between the Lok Sabha results in June and the Assembly elections in November 2024, 47 lakh voters were added. 

There were 47 lakh extra voters in the 2019 Lok Sabha election that affected the results of 42 constituencies (the vast majority going to the BJP). There were 11 lakh extra voters that affected 79 seats in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections (both numbers considerably affected by the impact of the infighting between the BJP and the RSS in 2024, especially in UP and Maharashtra - this is also clear now). Still, BJP won 60 of those 79 seats in 2024 - which means the BJP tally, if not for that manipulation, would have been at 180, not even at 240 as it was on June 5th. 

2) 
ON A TURNOUT LEVEL - essentially, additions to the final tally of overall votes after 5 pm, on a scale Indian election history has not seen. 

In Maharashtra, an addition of 7.8% to the tally of those who voted post 5 pm on voting day (when the norm across decades and geography is below 1%) is apparently because of a historically unprecedented rush in the evening that breaks all records in India's history. This number computes to about 76 lakh voters - which is logistically impossible on any parameter. No official or institution can explain this, or has bothered to. No one has pushed them enough. 

BJP on their own won 132 of 148 seats in this Maharashtra election, a strike rate of 89% (which was 32% in the Lok Sabha elections 5 months before that), in an environment where there was absolutely no semblance of a wave for them (where even Modi-Shah rallies were not full) - contrary to any elections in human history, let alone independent India's. Despite this being a state election, which is exactly the forum for the enormous localised anger that was brewing to be expressed (if anything, history and reason both yell, not suggest, that Modi-Shah's party should have fared even worse here than the recent Lok Sabha election). Meanwhile, tallying discrepancies in 95 assembly seats where over 5 lakh extra votes were polled (resulting in a win each and every time to the NDA or the Maha Yuti) were justified as regular human error. 

Exactly the same modus operandi was carried out in Haryana and Delhi. The second in a much more planned way than in Maharashtra, much more surgical. BJP's vote share was just 2% more than AAP's but it won them 26 extra seats, while its overall vote share increased by 7%. They're perfecting the machine, trying to reduce suspicion, but the manipulation is crystal clear for those who want to examine the issue. 

3) 
AT A COUNTING LEVEL - this is where the EVM comes in. 

The scope of manipulating with EVMs is much higher than with paper ballots as the scale of digital manipulation is on another level (therefore, much worse than booth-capturing that used to happen in previous times, but with CCTV technology now available, even that can be curbed to a huge extent). Common sense dictates that paper ballots be used, which is what the vast majority of first-world countries do for exactly the same reason. And yet, this has been repeatedly rejected outright by the Supreme Court of India. Even that would be somewhat palatable, if VVPAT-tallying was in play. But to not even allow that (with the ludicrous defence that that would take more time to come to a result), is a blatant intent to manipulate, to cheat in the elections. There is quite simply no other way to see this. Unless we choose to abdicate our logical faculties. 

There were reports in some quarters that every third vote was going to the wrong candidate (curiously, always to the BJP, no one else), despite showing a different VVPAT slip. Some raised their voices (to no avail), some were too scared to (but spoke out later). Some did social media videos on the same. Then, there were many reports of how EVMs had a battery charge in their 80s or 90s, when the rightful numbers should have been well below 20 after being on the whole day previously. It is illegal to switch on the EVM for any other purpose than for counting. So, suspicions of large-scale vote blocks being manipulated are well-founded. 

A village in Maharashtra was in the news after the state elections, its dwellers so disbelieving of the results in their constituency that they decided to hold mock polls to assuage the candidate they feel should have won. It was a personal exercise by them, with no legal binding and therefore nothing remotely illegal about it. But police stepped in, curfew was imposed and those organising the "friendly repoll" were taken into custody. About 200 FIRs were lodged. All of this action against the villagers was actually not just illegal but highly suspicious behaviour from authorities, who, if they had nothing to hide, would logically welcome an opportunity to contradict the widespread claims of manipulated polls. With no risk, because there is no legal standing of this poll. Obviously, the risk was that other constituencies with manageable populations would be fired up to conduct similar mock polls, compare notes and find an outlandish disparity with the official results. This kind of public unrest obviously terrifies the authorities because historically that never ends well for those spuriously in power.

Overall, "EVM tampering" is merely shorthand now, like a convenient abbreviation for this colossal fraud being committed. EVM is actually the smallest component of this, even if not insignificant. The far bigger stealing is happening at the registration and turnout level - with thousands of disenfranchised voters and even more bogus voters taking their places. 

This is obviously the biggest crime in the context of democracy. It is the stealing of the most fundamental right of every Indian citizen, and is, by far, the most significant story in India. In the context of Indian politics, there is no bigger story, none more urgent. But would you know that from people around us? 

(This attempt at providing an overview on India's fixed elections can undoubtedly be improved upon even more. Please feel free to do so, and share it, talk about it. But if you do not deem it to be important enough, no problem. There must be better things to bother about than staying a democracy.)

Jaideep Varma