(Judgment of the Court was delivered by T.S.Sivagnanam, CJ. and

 Hiranmay Bhattacharyya, J.) 1. WPA 4011 of 2024 was taken up as a suo motu writ petition by Hon'ble

 Single Bench of this court and by order dated 12.02.2024 the court recorded

 its gross disappointments after going through several newspapers and

 electronic media wherein it had been reported that number of ladies in

 Sandeshkhali, North 24 Parganas have been sexually assaulted at gun point.

 The court also observed that it has been alleged in the newspapers that the Page 4 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 tribal lands were taken away forcibly in violation of all legal formalities and

 laws. The learned Public Prosecutor was present in court and submitted that

 the learned Advocate General of the State is an appropriate person who will

 address the court and satisfy the queries that may be raised. With these

 observations, the court was constrained to take suo motu cognizance over the

 alleged incidents and also appointed learned amicus curiae to assist the court.

 The matter was placed before the Chief Justice and by administrative order

 dated 28.02.2024, the order passed by the learned Single Bench dated

 12.02.2024 was treated as a report in terms of the Rule 59 of the Rules

 Relating to Applications under Article 226 of the Constitution and the matter

 was directed to be placed before the Division Bench dealing with Public

 Interest Litigation on 28.02.2024 and a supplementary list to be published in

 this regard. This is how the matter was listed before this court. Subsequently

 three other writ petitions as mentioned above were tagged along with the suo

 motu writ petitions. 2. In WPA (P) 93 of 2024 filed by a Learned Member of the Bar appearing in

 person seeks for issuance of a writ of mandamus to direct the Deputy

 Commissioner of Police and Officer-in-Charge of the concerned police stations

 for immediate ceasing of atrocities and urgent filing of FIRs against the

 perpetrators to arrest such perpetrators; to direct the returning of the land to

 the people from whom they were taken away and payment of the appropriate

 compensation; to constitute police teams to be posted in the area and to be

 monitored by this court; to constitute a Special Task Force and allow them to Page 5 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 visit Sandeshkhali to assess the situation at ground level and also to allow the

 writ petitioner to visit Sandeshkhali. 3. In WPA (P) 78 of 2024 which has also been filed by a practising advocate

 of this court wherein a prayer has been made for deployment of CRPF forces

 for securing the life and liberty of the victim women in Sandeshkhali; to render

 adequate protection to their lives and the dignity of the victims of sexual

 exploitation and sexual violence; to direct the National Commission for Women

 to enquire into the acts of sexual exploitation of women in Sandeshkhali by

 certain named persons; to constitute an independent Special Investigating

 Team consisting of any Central Investigating Agency to investigate into the

 complaints by the victims of Sandeshkhali and to direct the respondent

 including the state police not to intimidate and threaten the victims of

 Sandeshkhali and for immediate deployment of central forces. 4. WPA (P) 104 of 2024 has been filed by an advocate practising before the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court with a prayer to issue a writ of mandamus to transfer

 the investigation of the alleged sexual assault of women of the village

 Sandeshkhali from the West Bengal Police to the Central Bureau of

 Investigation (CBI) or to a Special Investigation Team (SIT) situated outside the

 State of West Bengal preferably at Delhi; to form a Committee of three retired

 Judges of the High Court in line with the Committee formed in Manipur

 atrocities case (Dinganglung Gangmei Versus Mutum Churamani Meetei

 and Others 1) in order to enquire into the nature of violence against women 1 2023 INSC 698 Page 6 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 that occurred in Sandeshkhali; to direct the respondents to compensate the

 victims of sexual assault; to deploy central paramilitary forces for protection of

 the concerned witness/victims; to direct conduct of the trial of the case upon

 completion of the investigation in a Fast Track Court situated at Delhi and to

 direct the State of West Bengal to initiate stringent disciplinary action as well

 as penal action against the erring police men. 5. In the suo motu matter, CAN 1 of 2024 has been filed by a person seeking

 leave to intervene in the proceedings and allow him to be added as a party to

 the proceedings with a further prayer to allow the National Commission of

 Scheduled Castes to be impleaded as a proforma respondent and to appoint a

 Committee comprising among others one advocate of this Court including but

 not limited to one or more lady advocate who will freely visit the place along

 with appropriate protection and submit a report to this court. A supplementary

 affidavit has also been filed by the said person. 6. CAN 2 of 2024 has been filed seeking leave to permit the applicant to be

 added as a party to the suo motu proceedings and to grant leave to file

 additional affidavit disclosing certain facts and figures. The said applicant has

 filed a report in the form of an affidavit which was taken on record. 7. CAN 3 of 2024 has been filed with a prayer to constitute a Committee

 headed by a retired Judge of this court to monitor the proper redressal of

 grievances of the sufferers of the Sandeshkhali that is to say, the victims of

 sexual assault and forceful land grabbing; directing setting up of a website

 under the supervision and control of this court so as to enable the Page 7 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 sufferers/victims to lodge complaints fearlessly; to direct installation of

 adequate street lights in the streets/roads/pathways at Sandeshkhali; direct

 instillation of CCTV cameras at conspicuous places at Sandeshkhali and to

 direct the Government of West Bengal to recover from the wrong doers who

 grabbed forcibly and make arrangements for restoring the original nature and

 character of the said lands and there upon hand over the possession of the

 same to the original owners and make arrangements for payment of

 compensation as provided under the law. 8. CAN 1 of 2024 has been taken in WPA (P) 93 of 2024 praying for a

 direction to constitute an Enquiry Committee comprising of Members of the

 National Commission of Women, National Women Rights Commission, National

 Commission for Child Rights and/or the other members of the society to be

 headed by a retired High Court / Supreme Court Judge / to conduct a proper

 and thorough enquiry and report on the acts of violence perpetrated in

 Sandeshkhali; to direct the State of West Bengal to hand over the possession of

 the land forcibly obtained by certain persons and effect necessary change in

 land revenue records in respect of the same. Alternatively, the State of West

 Bengal be directed to grant compensation to the affected persons at market

 price of the land which were grabbed; to direct the state police to immediately

 register FIRs based of the complaints submitted by the women regarding acts

 of sexual violence without any delay and trial be conducted expeditiously

 preferably outside the State of West Bengal. Along with CAN 1 of 2024, a

 bunch of affidavits have been filed stated to be sworn in by the victims. By way Page 8 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 of illustration if one of the affidavits is perused which is Annexure P2 at Page

 21 of CAN 1 of 2024, the deponent is a lady who alleges that certain persons

 whose names have been given in the affidavit abducted her from her residence

 and took her to place which is also specified in the affidavit and gang raped

 and sexually assaulted her one by one till she collapsed. 9. It is further stated in the affidavit that after she regained her

 consciousness she was once again put to the same trauma and sexually

 abused. Thereafter she was sent to her residence by those persons in their

 vehicle threatening her of dire consequences including murder of her children

 and husband. The deponent states that the said incident was repeated four

 times when she was abducted from her residence and kept in a place and was

 gang raped and sexually assaulted. Certain other events have also been set out

 in the affidavits. Along with the affidavits the copy of the Aadhaar Card, the

 identity card issued by the Election Commission of India the copy of the

 complaint given to the police, copy of FIR No. 20 of 2024 have been annexed. It

 is submitted by the petitioner appearing in person that the copies of the

 affidavit have not been served upon the respondents as it would lead to breach

 of confidentiality and would also amount to disclosing the names of the victims

 and therefore the affidavits have been placed only for the perusal of this court. 10. The suo motu writ petition along with the other connected matters was

 first heard on 28.02.2024 and on which date notice was issued to the learned

 Advocate General with a request to appear on behalf of the State of West

 Bengal and the registry was directed to inform the Learned Additional Solicitor Page 9 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
REPORTABLE

General of India and the Learned Deputy Solicitor General of India so that the

CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are represented. The registry was

also directed to intimate the learned amicus curiae who was appointed by the

learned Single Bench. The matter was heard on 26.02.2024 in which apart

from the four writ petitions one other writ petition in WPA (P) 81 of 2024 was

heard and the same was disposed of. The operative portion of the order passed

in these four writ petitions is hereunder:- In Re : WPA 4011 of 2024, WPA(P) 78 of 2024 & WPA(P) 93 of 2024 1. Supplementary affidavit filed by the
 applicant in CAN 1 of 2024 to WPA 4011 of
 2024 is taken on record. Let copies be served Page 10 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
REPORTABLE

 on the learned advocates appearing for the
 parties. 2. We have heard the learned advocates for the
 respective parties at length. The parties,
 namely, Home Secretary, Government of West
 Bengal, Director General of Police, West Bengal,
 Superintendent of Police, Basirhat, Sub- Divisional Police Officer, Basirhat, Officer-in- Charge, Sandeshkhali-II, the Additional
 Director, Enforcement Directorate, Zone 1, CGO
 Complex, 3rd MSO Building, 6th Floor, C & D
 Wing, DF Block, Salt Lake, Sector 1, Kolkata
 700064 are added as party respondents in
 WPA 4011 of 2024 and all of them are
 represented by the learned advocates. SK. Sahajan, Karmadhaksya of Zilla Parishad,
 North 24 Parganas, who is alleged to be
 absconding is impleaded as a party respondent
 in this writ petition. Since the said party as on
 date is absconding and not traceable despite
 several criminal cases registered against him,
 the Registrar General is directed to issue a
 public notice through one leading Bengali
 newspaper and one leading English newspaper
 having wide circulation throughout the State
 informing the said person that he has been
 added as a respondent in WPA 4011 of 2024
 and he is at liberty to enter appearance in the
 writ petition. 3. Learned advocates for the petitioners
 submitted that a wrong impression has been
 created as if an interim order of stay of arrest of
 the aforesaid person has been granted. There is
 nothing on record that in any of the cases,
 which are pending concerning the incidents at
 Sandeshkhali, there is an order of stay of
 arrest. Therefore, the said person shall be
 arrested by the concerned police authority. Page 11 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
REPORTABLE 4. Learned Advocate General submitted that as
 many as 43 FIRs have been registered and the
 earliest of which was registered four years ago
 and the last of such FIR was registered on 10th
 February, 2024. Out of 43 FIRs in 42 cases
 charge sheets have been laid under various
 sections of Indian Penal Code including Section
 376 thereof. Further, in seven cases of land
 grabbing, charge sheets have been filed and on
 8th February, 2024, 24 cases of land grabbing
 have been registered. It is rather surprising to
 note that the incidents in that particular area
 had been reported to State Police four years ago
 and it is more surprising that it has taken four
 years for the said 42 cases to mature into
 charge sheets. It is not clear as to in what
 manner the investigation has been carried out
 and under what provisions such charge sheets
 have been laid. This aspect will be examined by
 this Court at a later stage. 5. There is an allegation that the ministers of
 the State and politicians of ruling dispensation
 have entered the area despite promulgation of
 the order under Section 144 of the Criminal
 Procedure Code. In this regard, learned
 Advocate General submitted that the politicians
 and other functionaries of the State have not
 visited Block No.2 of Sandeshkhali and rather
 they have visited the Block No.1 of
 Sandeshkhali. 6. Furthermore, there is a reference to the order
 of stay granted in the operative portion of the
 order passed under Section 144 of the Criminal
 Procedure Code. The said order is of no
 consequence. The said order is confined only to
 two persons and the same has already been
 clarified in an intra-Court appeal filed by the
 State which has been disposed of. Therefore, no
 person can take advantage of the order passed Page 12 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 by the learned Single Bench or by the Division
 Bench concerning the matter which confines
 only to two of the writ petitioners therein. 7. Learned advocate appearing for one of the
 petitioners, whose writ petition has been filed
 today, being WPA(P) 93 of 2024, submitted that
 there are several ladies who want to lodge
 complain but they are afraid to come to the
 camp organized by the police authority fearing
 that they will further be exposed to more
 violence. As and when the said writ petition is
 listed along these cases the Court will consider
 as to whether the State Legal Services
 Authority should be requested to take up those
 cases. This aspect will be considered on the
 next date. 8. Learned amicus curaie submitted that he
 should be permitted to go to Block-2,
 Sandeshkhali, 24 Parganas (North). For the
 present such visit may not augur well and such
 prayer will be considered on the next hearing
 date. Learned amicus curiae is directed to file a
 report as it is submitted that he has several
 information regarding various incidents which
 took placed in the concerned area on the next
 date. 9. List these matters for further consideration
 on 4th March, 2024. 11. In the above order the court has recorded the submissions made by the

 learned Advocate General that as many as 43 FIRs have been registered and

 the earliest of which was registered four years ago and the last FIR was

 registered on 10.02.2024. Further out of the 43 FIRs, in 42 cases charge

 sheets have been laid under various sections of the Indian Penal Code Page 13 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
REPORTABLE

including Section 376 IPC. The court also noted that in seven cases of land

grabbing charge sheets have been filed on 08.02.2024, apart from 24 cases of

land grabbing having been registered. The matters were subsequently heard on

28.02.2024 wherein the court noted the submissions of the Learned Additional

Solicitor General of India that they have an apprehension that if the state

police makes an arrest in terms of the observations made in the Paragraph 3 of

the order dated 26.02.2024, there is a likelihood of the case being diluted by

the state police as the CBI and ED have serious reservations against the state

police and there is also an allegation that they are colluding with the

absconding accused. The court recorded the submissions of the learned

Advocate General who had vehemently disputed such contention raised on

behalf of the ED. The court observed that the concerned person could not be

apprehended for a substantial period of time and as on the said date what has

been stayed by the court is only the constitution of the SIT and therefore it will

be open to CBI and ED also to arrest the absconding accused. That apart there

are other cases registered under the very same accused where he has been

shown as absconding accused. Therefore, the court observed that a person

who has been elected to a public office cannot defy law and therefore left it

open to any one of the agencies to arrest. The matter was heard on

04.03.2024. Thereafter the matter was heard on 07.03.2024. The observations

made by the respective advocates were placed on record including the

submissions made on behalf of the ED and CBI. The court noted the

submissions made on behalf of the applicant in IA No. CAN 1 of 2024 in WPA Page 14 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 4011 of 2024 stating that the eye witnesses to the various incidents are still

 living in the locality and are required to be given adequate protection and in

 this regard referred to the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018. Subsequently, the

 matter was heard on 04.04.2024 and on the said date, the learned Additional

 Solicitor General of India appearing for ED requested that the copies of the

 FIRs/charge sheets which have been registered/laid to be furnished to ED. The

 learned Advocate General submitted that these FIRs have been registered by

 the jurisdictional police and ED will not have a right to obtain the copies. The

 court ordered that this issue will be considered after the copies of all the FIRs

 and charge sheets are placed before this court for its perusal and scrutiny and

 this was directed to be done by the respondent/State by the next hearing date.

 The court noted the oral submissions of the Learned Advocate General that the

 copies of those FIRs and charge sheets will be submitted to the court in a

 sealed cover. Then the court proceeded to elaborately hear the learned

 Advocates appearing in the matters including the intervenors, the learned

 Additional Solicitor General of India, the Deputy Solicitor General of India, as

 well as the learned Advocates for the accused. 12. Before we proceed to consider the respective submissions and as to what

 relief has to be granted in these cases at this juncture, first we propose to deal

 with the submissions made on behalf of the accused who is presently in the

 custody of the CBI. It is the submission of the learned Advocate that he has a

 right to be heard in the matter and certain observations which had fallen from

 this court while hearing these matters have grossly affected his interest. Page 15 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 Referring to the petition filed by ED under Section 167 CrPC before the learned

 Judge, Special (CBI Court No. 1), City Sessions Court at Calcutta in ML Case

 of 2 of 2024,it is submitted that in the said petition there is a specific reference

 to this suo motu writ petition and the order which was passed by this court in

 the said writ petition on 13.02.2024 and if that be so, the accused is entitled to

 be heard in the matter. 13. The learned Advocate had produced the arrest memo drawn by the ED

 dated 30.03.2024 as well as the details of the other FIRs which are pending

 against the accused. By placing reliance on the decision in Re: An application

 for anticipatory bail under Section 438 CrPC 2, it is submitted that the

 accused could not have been recorded as an absconding accused since an

 application for anticipatory bail was filed by the accused and the matter was

 pending. Therefore, the observations made by this court in its earlier orders

 that the accused was absconding has seriously affected the rights of the

 accused. 14. Firstly, we need to point out certain background facts. The investigation

 was initially in the hands of the state police. The accused was not arrested for

 a considerable period of time. A writ petition was filed for transfer of the

 investigation to the CBI. The learned Writ Court had directed constitution of an

 SIT consisting of 50% of the officers of CBI and 50% of the officers of state

 police. This order was to put to challenge by ED and CBI before the Division

 Bench and the appeals were allowed and the order constituting the Special 2 2014 SCC Online Cal 20786 Page 16 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 Investigating Team was set aside and the case was transferred to CBI. The

 state authorities did not comply with the order and ED had filed a contempt

 application and only after an order was passed by the Division Bench in the

 contempt application, the case files were handed over to the CBI and the

 custody of the accused who had by then been arrested by the state police was

 handed over to CBI. In the said proceedings also, the accused sought for an

 audience on the ground that it he is entitled to be heard in the matter. The

 court had rejected such a contention on the ground that in a prayer for

 transfer of investigation the accused has no right to be heard. The order

 passed by the Division Bench transferring the case to CBI and handing over

 the accused to CBI was affirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as the Special

 Leave Petition filed against the order was dismissed. The accused in the

 present scenario is in no better or different position to plead a different case.

 The court in the suo motu proceedings is concerned with the larger issue

 pertaining to the allegations which have been made against the accused and

 several other persons of very serious offences such as gang rape, sexual

 exploitation, forcibly grabbing of land, properties etc. Since the investigation is

 now under progress by CBI, it is for the accused to work out his remedies in

 the manner known to law in the proceedings that may be initiated by CBI or

 during the course of such proceedings and in the present proceedings the

 accused has no right to be heard. 15. Having steered clear of this issue, now we proceed to take note of the

 elaborate submissions made by the learned advocates appearing for the parties Page 17 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 to consider as to what would be the appropriate order/directions that has to be

 issued. At this point of time the common prayer in the writ petitions as well as

 by the intervenors is to have an independent Committee to enquire into the

 matter so that appropriate directions can be issued to alleviate the victims

 from their sufferings. It is no doubt true that there is a slight variation in the

 prayers made but essentially the prayer is for an impartial and independent

 Committee to enquire into the matter. Before we proceed further, we take note

 of the submission made by the learned Advocate General who had contended

 that a public interest litigation cannot be a political interest or personal

 interest litigation and in all these cases there is a gross display of personal

 interest and the court should not be swayed by the crocodile tears which are

 shed before the court and an attempt is made to misguide this court. Further

 the petitioners/applicants have made one line allegation that the entire

 administration is hiding the accused without noting the facts that in several

 places the applicants themselves have mentioned about the effective steps

 taken by the state police and the state administration and therefore the

 administration should be given credence. 16. The learned Advocate General was fair in his submission that he does

 not for a moment say that no incidents have happened. But his concern is that

 the person who has come to the court should be a genuine public interest

 litigant and not a political interested litigant or the personally interested

 litigant. Further it is submitted that before filing the public interest litigation

 no research has been done and though 42 FIRs were registered there were Page 18 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 nobody who had come to this court earlier and only after an incident occurred

 they rushed to the court and slowly dissipate after another incident occurs.

 Further it is submitted that even going by the report of the learned amicus

 curiae, the area in question is known for its protests even from pre-

 independence days and the reaction of the public of different regions are

 different and distinct. Further it is submitted that the larger issue relating to

 the ration scam is been investigated by the state police and what is being

 investigated by the CBI is not the larger issue. Further it is submitted that the

 court should also take stalk of the performance of the central agencies by

 assessing their past actions. It is reiterated that when the larger issue relating

 to the ration scam is been investigated by the state police, it will be rather

 doubtful as to whether an offshoot of the same should go to a central agency. 17. It is submitted that as of now the situation has attained normalcy and

 all orders passed under Section 144 CrPC have been withdrawn. 18. The submissions that the genuineness of the public interest

 litigation/litigants has to be examined becomes irrelevant since the court has

 taken suo motu cognizance of the matter and WPA 4011 of 2024 has been

 registered as a suo motu writ petition. So regardless of the fact as to who may

 be the other public interest litigant who has approached this court by filing a

 separate writ petition or seek for intervention in the suo motu proceedings,

 cause and the reasons for entertaining the suo motu proceedings can neither

 be diluted nor defaced. Therefore, the said submissions made by the learned

 Advocate General does not merit acceptance as the court is convinced that a Page 19 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 suo motu proceeding is required to be drawn in the matter which has by now

 brought to light several facts which requires to be enquired into to ascertain

 the correct position. The state cannot at this juncture question the transfer of

 the cases to the central agency, CBI since it was pursuant to the order passed

 by the Division Bench which has been affirmed as the appeal filed by the state

 against the said order before the Hon'ble Supreme Court was dismissed. 19. With regard to the locus standi of a public interest litigant, we note the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the State of West Bengal and

 Others Versus Dipak Mishra 3 wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed

 that the court is required to examine whether a litigation is really in public

 interest or to advance some other interest in the garb of public interest, at the

 same time, a public interest litigation cannot be thrown out only because the

 petitioner belongs to a rival political party. It has been further held that

 persons with political affiliations are as much entitled to file a public interest

 litigation as any other persons. Whether the litigation is bonafide or not is a

 different issue which has to be examined by the court on a case to case basis

 having regard to the nature of the complaint before it. In the light of the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, a writ petition filed as a public interest

 litigation by a person belonging to a particular political party cannot be thrown

 out. The turn of events and the facts which have emerged before this court ever

 since the court commenced hearing of the matter on 28.02.2024 clearly

 demonstrates a need to entertain these writ petitions as public interest 3 (2022) 13 SCC 250 Page 20 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 litigation. We say so because of the incidents and certain facts which have

 been brought on record. It is no doubt true that the facts have to be enquired

 into and to ascertain the correct position and to direct the requisite to be done

 in accordance with law. Therefore, it is too late in the day for the state to

 contend that the public interest litigation cannot be entertained and that they

 are not genuine more so when the incidents which have occurred in

 Sandeskhali have not been shown to be wholly incorrect or palpably false. 20. The nitty gritty of the matter will show case only upon enquiry and

 investigation. As on date we are convinced that there is a prima facie material

 available for a full-fledged enquiry to be conducted or in other words a fact

 finding exercise to be conducted so as to evolve a solution to the problem and if

 it is established that women were gang raped, sexually exploited, the lands

 from the local people were forcibly grabbed etc. necessary action has to be

 directed to be taken in accordance with law. The court can take judicial notice

 of the fact that the State of West Bengal has put in place a machinery by which

 certain extent of lands are said to have been handed over to the persons from

 whom it has been grabbed. This aspect has been highlighted by the learned

 amicus curiae in his report. The fact that the Government came forward to

 hand over the land back to the rightful owner is more than sufficient to

 establish that land were forcibly taken. The mere fact that the Government has

 taken steps to revert the land back to the rightful owner does not efface or

 mitigate the offences of land grabbing. The persons who are responsible for

 such offences of land grabbing have to be brought to books and to be punished Page 21 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 in the manner known to law. The rightful land owner from whom the land has

 been grabbed is not only entitled to the possession being restored to him but

 the nature and character of the land as it existed prior to the same being

 grabbed has to be restored. When such large-scale land grabbing is reported

 undoubtedly the State being a welfare state has to pitch him and do the

 needful for the rightful land owners and not point a finger to the accused by

 stating that it is the accused who has to do remedial measures. The cases of

 land grabbing are not solitary cases but are alleged to be large scale land

 grabbing. Therefore, if lands have been grabbed and mutation has been done

 in the revenue records then it goes without saying that the state machinery is

 also involved in the process. Therefore, the state has a duty to compensate the

 victims of crimes apart from other relief measures. 21. In CAN 3 of 2024 filed by Susmita Saha Dutta the report drawn by the

 National Commission for Scheduled Tribes has been annexed. The learned

 Advocate General submitted that copy of the CAN 3 of 2024 has not been

 served. The applicant in CAN 3 of 2024 is directed to serve the copy of the

 application along with the annexures in the office of the Government Pleader to

 enable the state to respond. However, at this juncture we wish to refer to

 certain portions of the report drawn by the National Commission for Scheduled

 Tribes communicated to the Chief Secretary, Government of West Bengal,

 Director General of Police, Government of Kolkata, Collector and District

 Magistrate, North 24 Parganas and the Superintendent of Police, North 24

 Parganas with copy marked to Susmita Saha Dutta. It will be well open to the Page 22 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 respondent state to submit their affidavits in response to the prayer sought in

 CAN 3 of 2024. 22. As per the report of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, a

 team led by the Vice Chairperson accompanied by the Director, Deputy

 Director and others visited Sandeshkhali on 22.02.2024 to inquire into the

 incidence of alleged sexual harassment, land grabbing and atrocities on the

 scheduled tribes and other vulnerable sections of the society in Sandeskhali.

 The visit was in the backdrop of the complaint received from the Susmita Saha

 Dutta and others. The report states that they have interacted with several

 people who have mentioned about the physical violence, land grabbing and

 harassment meted out to them by the accused and others and this has been

 happening for a few years and those persons have been indulging in the acts of

 atrocities, the women are rounded up at nights from their homes and asked to

 accompany them to a particular place and if they resist, their husbands and

 sons were beaten up. Thereafter the women were molested and the vulnerable

 ones who cannot fight back were raped. Further it has been stated that

 complaints to the local police were not registered due to fear psychosis and

 also since they did not have any faith that any action will be taken. 23. It is stated that women revealed their ordeal to the team hesitatingly

 after repeated assurance that their names or identify will not be revealed. The

 team observed that they are all living under constant fear without any resort to

 help/intervention from local police/administration and a reign of terror is

 apparent. The modus operandi adopted while grabbing the lands were also Page 23 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 stated to have been mentioned and those persons have occupied most of the

 lands for making a pond type structure for fishery operations called "bheri". A

 joint petition in Bengali language addressed to the Commission signed by 12

 women of Oraon tribe in Tipalighedi Nutanpada in Sandeshkhali is stated to

 have been given to the visiting team. The team has observed that there is a fear

 among the people including the scheduled tribes from the accused and their

 accomplices and all the persons who met the team have suffered from

 atrocities committed in the form of the physical assault, molestation, land

 grabbing, threatening and mental torture. Further the report states that the

 local police seems to be in hand and glove with the accused who belonged to a

 political party. Further the report states that the people of Sandeshkhali do not

 have any faith in the police system as well as local administration. The report

 drawn by the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes cannot be outrightly

 rejected more particularly, when the National Commission is a constitutional

 body under Article 338 A of the Constitution of India. Therefore, prima facie we

 have to give credence to the report subject to the objections that may be raised

 by the state in the affidavit which has been directed to be filed. As noted above

 the petitioner in WPA (P) 93 of 2024 has filed CAN 1 of 2024 enclosing

 affidavits stated to have been sworn to by the victims and it is stated that there

 are about 600 such affidavits. 24. Thus, considering the overall scenario and the complexities of the facts

 involved, we have no doubt in our mind to hold that an impartial enquiry is

 required to be done by an agency which has power to probe the criminal angle Page 24 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 stated to involved. Therefore this court is of the considered opinion that it is

 necessary in the interest of justice and fair play and for expeditious

 consideration of the various complaints and allegations an impartial enquiry is

 required to be conducted. The state has to provide the required support to the

 said agency to be appointed by us to enquire into the matter. 25. The petitioners have prayed for constitution of an Inquiry Committee to

 be headed by a retired Hon'ble Judge of this Court. Considering the nature of

 the allegations which involve crime against women as well as forcible grabbing

 of lands of the citizens including those belonging to scheduled tribes as well as

 the volume of the complaints which have been brought on record before this

 Court by one of the petitioners, this Court is of the considered view that

 instead of constituting an expert committee to be headed by a retired High

 Court Judge, the CBI may be directed to investigate and submit a report with

 regard to the allegations and complaints of the persons of Sandeshkhali as the

 CBI is already in seisin over the investigation in respect of an incident which

 very recently took place at Sandeshkahli. The parties will be at liberty to file

 their complaints before the CBI within a period of fortnight from the date of

 receipt of the server copy of this order. 26. In order to ensure confidentiality, CBI shall create a dedicated

 portal/email ID to which the complaints can be lodged and the District

 Magistrate, North 24 Parganas shall give adequate publicity of the same in the

 locality and also issue a Public Notice in the dailies having wide circulation in

 the areas. The text of the publication shall be in vernacular. Page 25 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE 27. Let copies of the affidavits filed by the respective petitioners containing

 such allegation be forwarded to the CBI. In the event the complaints disclose

 cognizable offence, CBI shall proceed in accordance with law. CBI shall file a

 comprehensive report as to the steps taken in this regard on the next date. CBI

 shall also enquire into and investigate the allegations of forcible grabbing of

 land of the inhabitants of the locality and if such allegations have some

 foundational basis to initiate action and file a comprehensive report in that

 regard on the next date. 28. It goes without saying that CBI shall have the power to require any

 person, organisation, Government authority, police authorities, quasi-

 governmental authorities, NGOs, public spirited persons and others who may

 be genuinely interested in the matter to furnish information on such point or

 matters, as in its opinion may be useful for, or relevant to the subject matter. 29. With regard to the allegations about change of names of the owners in

 the revenue records illegally and also illegal conversion of agricultural lands

 into bheris for carrying on pisciculture, CBI is directed to file a comprehensive

 report in that regard after conducting a thorough inspection of the revenue

 records and after making physical inspection of the plots alleged to have been

 illegally converted into bheris on the next date. 30. This Court shall monitor the entire investigation and shall pass further

 orders after the reports as directed above are filed by CBI. 31. The District Magistrate, North 24 Parganas, The Superintendent of

 Police, the local bodies shall jointly take steps to install CCTVs in the relevant Page 26 of 27 WPA 4011 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 104 OF 2024,
 WPA (P) 78 OF 2024, WPA (P) 93 OF 2024
 REPORTABLE

 and sensitive places in the Sandeshkhali area. The State shall sanction

 necessary funds and the work shall be completed on priority basis within 15

 days from date, waiving formalities such as tender process etc. Likewise the

 District administration and the local bodies shall install LED street lights in

 the areas expeditiously preferably within 15 days. Necessary funds shall be

 sanctioned by the State Government. 32. With regard to the protection to the victims and witnesses, CBI shall

 issue necessary directions to the State Police as to how and in what manner

 protection can be granted without insisting upon the strict procedure as

 stipulated under the Witness Protection Scheme. 33. List the matter on May 02, 2024. (HIRANMAY BHATTACHARYYA, J.) (T.S. SIVAGNANAM, CJ.)

 (P.A - SACHIN) Page 27 of 27