The Hyderabad City Police’s Cyber Crime division arrested two Bengaluru residents for allegedly operating six predatory instant loan apps under the supervision of a Chinese national named Chen Chaoping.

According to a press release, the accused Shabbir Alam and Umakanth Yadav were employees of Koramangala-based Sky Links Technology Pvt Ltd, a firm that was allegedly operating the loan apps — Ocean Ruppee, Life Wallet, Maloo Wallet, Elephant Cash, Box Cash, and Dutta Rupee. When installed, the apps obtained permissions for access to the gallery, contact list, and location for providing the short-term loans.

“When the victims are incapable of repaying the loan amounts, accused persons post their photos on social media platforms by morphing their photos, and threatening calls are also made,” the release said.

In the past, several people have ended their lives due to harassment from representatives of unauthorised digital lending apps , many of which were found to have ties with Chinese nationals. Agents of such unregulated apps also allegedly threatened to start reaching out to people on victims’ contact lists.

The release said, that in 2020, Chaoping allegedly operated a loan apps call centre named Golden Bag Technologies Pvt. Ltd at Bengaluru. Then, Alam worked as a supervisor and Yadav worked as the IT Manager of the firm.

However, when police began to crack down on predatory loan apps in 2020, the release said that the Chaoping left for China. “After 2 months the Chinese national again contacted the accused Shabbir Alam and Umakanth Yadav and instructed them to run the call centre by introducing new loan apps.” The apps were allegedly developed by Chaoping.

The release said that, based on Chaoping’s instructions, the accused hired about 100 tele-callers and opened Sky Links Technology Pvt Ltd.

Hyderabad City Police in the release said that they received a complaint from a 30-year-old Rethibowli resident in Hyderabad stating that she had taken loans from these apps. Both cops and the victim say that the apps were available then on Google Play  Store. However, MediaNama was not able to zero in on these apps on the Play Store at the time of publishing this report.

The victim said that she had taken a loan of approximately Rs two lakh. “After only 7 days after she failed to repay, threatening calls were made to her from different WhatsApp numbers and abused her in vulgar language. They also called her colleagues and relatives and threatened that they will circulate her number to 500 different men,” the release added.

At the time of publishing this report, we found that most of these apps are still available on Google Play Store.

In September 2021, SaveThem India , a foundation started in March 2020 to counter the lending apps problem in India, had received over 55,000 calls from victims of harassment from lending apps. Here are some of the common harassment techniques that loan apps use to recover money, documented by SaveThem India in screenshots and recordings accessed by MediaNama:

To lure unsuspecting borrowers, predatory lending apps advertise on popular social media platforms like Youtube, Facebook, and Instagram. Ads for these apps have even appeared on apps like Truecaller and Zomato (through integrations with the Facebook Audience Network and Google Ads).

Loan apps advertising on social media often run misleading or downright fake ads. Here are some ways in which these ad banners carry misleading content –

At a time when Chinese loan apps are being criticised for imposing exorbitant interest rates and employing predatory practices, fintech company MobiKwik (which was looking to go public until recently) has been accused of resorting to similar, ethically-dubious practices for securing the repayment of a loan availed from its platform.

This particular incident pertains to Bharath C Raghurama, a 34-year-old native of Karnataka who is currently based in Gujarat. Raghurama had availed an instant loan offered by MobiKwik in December and his repayment was scheduled for the end of the month. But when Raghurama was not able to pay it by the stipulated deadline, MobiKwik agents started harassing him over WhatsApp, it is learnt. They warned him that if he is not able to repay the sum as soon as possible, then friends and family would be informed about the situation. They also appended a list of his ‘key contacts’ as proof that they have access to the details of his friends and family.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event