This petition is filed seeking quashment of FIR No.31 of

2019 on the file of the Tukaramgate Police Station, Hyderabad. 2. The facts in brief as per the charge sheet are as under: 3. The petitioner/accused is a Standing counsel for South

Central Railway along with other advocates. She has been

representing the railways in the Railways Claims Tribunal,

Secunderabad (for short, "the Tribunal"), where various claims

from the civilians will be filed seeking compensation mostly in

the matters of railway accidents or demurrages etc. 4. On 10.03.2017 and on 14.03.2014 about 402 and 61

cases respectively have been disposed of by the Tribunal,

wherein a direction was given to the southern central railway to

pay compensation to the tune of Rs.37 crores in respect of all

the cases. The railway department has preferred an appeal

before the High Court and all the appeals were dismissed by

way of common order dated 17.09.2018. South Central 2 Railway has also preferred writ appeal bearing W.A.No.1589 of

2019 before this Court and the same were also dismissed. 5. A note has been circulated by the Deputy Commercial

Manager, Claims to the Chief Claims Officer on 24.12.2018

recommended for filing of SLP before the Supreme Court for

which approval of the General Manager is mandatory. The

matter was referred to senior law officer and others, who have

decided to file SLP before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Even

before the General Manager has approved the proposal for filing

SLP, the news item published in Hyderabad edition in Times of

India and The Hindu on 12.01.2019 itself. The railway

department has enquired with the call data records of all the

persons connected to the information, wherein it was found

that the petitioner has spoken to the reporters of Times of India

and The Hindu and divulged the information about the

proposal to prefer SLP. 6. On coming to know the information about the dismissal of

the writ appeal, the Tribunal has conducted a Special Bench on

23.01.2019 and 24.01.2019 and passed orders directing the

South Central Railway to deposit Rs.34 crores in the Tribunal. 3 On account of such leaking out the information and on account

of passing of such directions by the Tribunal, the Railway

department could not file SLP and thereby sustained loss of

Rs.37 crores. 7. A complaint is filed before the police in respect of such

leaking of information on which police have registered a case in

Crime No.31 of 2019 for the offence under Sections420 and 409 IPC and took up investigation. 8. During the course of investigation, statements of

witnesses were recorded, call data records of the persons

connected with the leaking of information about filing of SLP

were examined and found that the petitioner has spoken with

the correspondent of the Times of India and The Hindu

newspapers. On completion of investigation charge sheet has

been filed against the petitioner alleging that she has

committed the offence punishable under Sections 409 , 420 IPC. 9. Aggrieved by the same, the petitioner has filed this

petition seeking quashment. 10. Sri D. Prakash Reddy, learned Senior counsel appearing

for the petitioner has submitted that even if all the allegations

levelled against the petitioner/accused are correct, she has not

committed any offence much less offences punishable under Sections 420 and 409 IPC. It is further submitted that though

in the charge sheet it was mentioned that the petitioner has

leaked the information, she has not violated any law and that

there is no nexus between the information allegedly leaked out

by the petitioner and the alleged loss of Rs.37 crores sustained

by the railway department. 11. On the other hand, learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

has defended the action of the police vehemently stating that on

account of leaking out the information by the

petitioner/accused, news items were published in Times of

India and The Hindu, Hyderabad Editions on 12.01.2019 on

account of which only the Tribunal has conducted special

bench on 23.01.2019 and 24.01.2019 and directed the railway

department deposit Rs.37 crores, thereby on account of such

direction, the railway department could not prefer SLP and

thereby, the petitioner has caused the breach of trust and also 5 committed offence punishable under Section 420 IPC, therefore,

prayed the Court to decline the relief sought for by the

petitioner. 12. Heard both sides and perused the record. 13. Now, the point for determination is whether FIR.No.31 of

2019 on the file of Tukaramgate Police Station against the

petitioner can be quashed? 14. On considering the above, the question arises is whether

even if the petitioner has divulged the information with regard

to decision of respondent No.2 to prefer an appeal, how the

department has sustained loss of Rs.37 crores. Filing of SLP

aggrieved by the orders passed in W.A.No.1589 of 2019 is

purely a decision and discretion of respondent No.2. Once the

writ appeal has been dismissed, the options left for the railway

department is to prefer SLP or to deposit Rs.37 crores. Even

after directions given by the Tribunal to deposit Rs.37 crores,

respondent No.2 still could have filed SLP and got the directions

of the Tribunal of directing the department to deposit Rs.37

crores stayed. 15. Even otherwise, if respondent No.2 deposits Rs.37 crores,

that is not the end of the day. While depositing Rs.37 crores,

the railway department could have sought for stay of

disbursement of the amount to the claimants until SLP is filed.

Merely because Rs.37 crores was deposited, it is not a bar for

respondent No.2 to prefer SLP. Therefore, the contention of

respondent No.2 that on account of news item in respect of

filing of SLP has been leaked out, respondent No.2 has

sustained loss of Rs.37 crores, is not at all convincing. 16. The petitioner is charged for the offences under Sections

420 and 409 IPC. Section 420 IPC runs as under: 17. As observed and held by the Supreme Court in R.K.

Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam [R.K. Vijayasarathy 7 v. Sudha Seetharam1, the ingredients to constitute an

offence under Section 420 are as follows: 18. In order to prove the offence under Section 420 IPC, the

police are expected to allege and prove that the petitioner with

an intention to deceive the railway department has from the

inception done certain acts, which resulted in loosing of Rs.37

crores by the department. In the case on hand, it is alleged

that the petitioner has leaked out the information about

preferring SLP before the Supreme Court. It is not the case of

the de-facto complainant that in order to cause loss of Rs.37

crores, the petitioner has divulged the information to the press.

Even if all the allegations are correct, none of the ingredients of

offence under Section 420 IPC are being attracted. 1 (2019) 16 SCC 739 : (2020) 2 SCC (Cri) 454 8 19. It is also alleged that the petitioner has committed offence

punishable under Section 409 IPC. Section 409 IPC is a penal

provision for committing criminal breach of trust, the definition

of which is found in Section 405 IPC. Section 405 IPC runs as

under: Explanation 1.-- A person, being an employer 3 of an estab-
 lishment whether exempted under section 17 of the Employees'
 Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (19 of
 1952), or not who deducts the employee's contribution from the
 wages payable to the employee for credit to a Provident Fund or
 Family Pension Fund established by any law for the time being
 in force, shall be deemed to have been entrusted with the
 amount of the contribution so deducted by him and if he makes
 default in the payment of such contribution to the said Fund in
 violation of the said law, shall be deemed to have dishonestly
 used the amount of the said contribution in violation of a
 direction of law as aforesaid. Explanation 2.-- A person, being an employer, who deducts the
 employees' contribution from the wages payable to the employee
 for credit to the Employees' State Insurance Fund held and
 administered by the Employees' State Insurance Corporation
 established under the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34
 of 1948), shall be deemed to have been entrusted with the
 amount of the contribution so deducted by him and if he makes
 default in the payment of such contribution to the said Fund in
 violation of the said Act, shall be deemed to have dishonestly
 used the amount of the said contribution in violation of a
 direction of law as aforesaid" 20. In order to prove the offence under Section 409 IPC, the

following ingredients have to be proved: (iii) He must have committed breach of trust in respect
 of such property." 21. In the case on hand, it is not the case of the prosecution

that the petitioner was entrusted with some property and that

the petitioner must be a public servant. The petitioner is not a

public servant as defined under Section 21 of IPC and that the

petitioner was not entrusted with property. 22. Therefore, on considering the above, even if all the

contents of the charge sheet levelled against the petitioner are

found to be correct, none of the ingredients of Section 405 IPC

punishable under Section 409 IPC can be fastened against the

petitioner. 23. In fact, divulging the information by the petitioner to the

press that the department has decided to prefer an appeal

before the Supreme Court cannot be an offence under any

statute. That is the reason why the learned Magistrate when 10 she was produced before the Court for remanding her to

judicial custody has wisely set her at liberty by holding that

allegations levelled against the petitioner do not constitute of

any offence, more particularly, offence punishable under Sections 420 and 409 IPC. However, police have concluded the

investigation stating that the petitioner has committed the

offence punishable under Sections 409 and 420 IPC. Strangely,

the trial Court also without applying its mind has taken

cognizance of the offence against the petitioner for the offence

under Section 420 and 409 IPC. 24. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a celebrated judgment

decided between State of Haryana and others vs. Ch. Bhajan

Lal and others2, has formulated certain guidelines under

which Court can consider quashment of criminal case. The

guidelines are: AIR 1992 SC 604 11 (c) where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not
 disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against
 the accused; (d) where the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable
 offence but constitute only a non-cognizable offence, no investigation
 is permitted by a police officer without an order of a Magistrate as
 contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code; (e) where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so
 absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent
 person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground
 for proceeding against the accused; (f) where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the
 provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal
 proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the
 proceedings and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code or
 the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the grievance of
 the aggrieved party; (g) where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala
 fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a
 view to spite him due to private and personal grudge."

 None of the illustrations referred to above would attract to

the facts of the case. 25. Therefore, considering from any angle, no offence is made

out against the petitioner more particularly offence under Sections 420 and 409 IPC. Therefore, the petitioner is entitled

for quashment of FIR, otherwise, it amounts to abusing of the

process of law. 26. In the result, the criminal petition is allowed and

FIR.No.31 of 2019 on the file of Tukaramgate Police Station is

hereby quashed. Miscellaneous petitions, if any, shall stand closed. _____________________
 Dr. D. NAGARJUN, J

Date: 23.08.2022
ES