Not sure how but this agency has all the details regarding my ongoing policy (policy type, premium, frequency etc.) Got a call from one of their agents pretending to be my policy holding company, starts asking me if i am getting timely updates or not/if i have any questions or concerns that are not addressed. Then revealed all the above stated details of my policy and this is where the main game-play started, i was frustrated about one odd thing that i requested my policy holder and it was not addressed by them. So, He gave me an option to raise a complaint regarding this to insurance help-desk which is a govt organization. I have a term+ULIP plan and was frustrated about not getting help regarding fund switch for a better fund value and a secure future. On the next call, they framed me smartly by telling me that my policy does not allow me to take out my money before the maturity date that is 76, also told me about hefty loss if i try to withdraw the amount before this age which puts me in a fix. This lady took some time pretending to be checking everything and getting me the best solution about getting rid of this and get all my paid premiums back and also trained me on call about how to negotiate with my insurer(the next call that i was about to receive from them, who was actually another agent in the same company now pretending to be calling from my insurer's escalation desk) and told me to take a freezing number if nothing works out. So, this call happened the next day and he final did not agree to anything and gave me the freezing number as per the plan, telling me not to pay anymore premiums from now on and i would be getting all the money back by end of 2025 for which i will start getting emails in 3-4 days from this day. this guy actually started a quarrelsome conversation which would actually make you angry before you actually get into the real conversation. Then he finally gave the freezing number with a strict timeline of 2 hours else everything would get lapsed, nor would i get anything from my old policy nor i would be able to use this freezing number anymore. This freezing number has to be used to buy a new policy with assured returns and a short tenure which would be 1/2 or 1/3 of the actual tenure of the policy they got me signed for Reliance Nippon was what i chose. Now they will make you complete payment and video KYC all by yourself where they would assure you to not worry and accept all the terms and timelines saying we are there to help and once you get the policy document we will get it modified. So all this happened and i finally got my policy bond by courier, i took some time out to read through and see if things were going the way as promised. But to a shock the first thing i noticed was an intermediator company name as North India Finserve pvt ltd, which was nowhere discussed or disclosed and which also contradicted their statement of getting me enrolled in a policy without any layer or a 3rd party agency. It triggered me and i then started looking for reviews about this company and realized about this scam. Fortunately the freelook period allowed me to surrender the policy, still waiting for return of the paid premium People Involved and numbers i could capture Meena Bisht-[protected] (the lady who framed & trained) Kapil Chauhan- [protected] (The person pretending to be from Insurer's escalation desk who provided freezing number) Mayank Srivastava:[protected] (assigned as RM who will get the policy modified) Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)