Plaint: b) That the present suit is being instituted through Sh. Abhishek Gaur who has been authorized by the Plaintiff No.
 1 and 2 to sign & verify the plaint and institute the present
 Digitally
 signed by
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 DIVYAM DIVYAM LILA
 Date: d) The services of the Defendant were terminated by the
 Plaintiff No.1 on 16.09.2019. That Defendant had then
 started sending e­mails that indicated his unstable mindset
 and consequently, on 18.09.2019, a police complaint was
 also made by the Plaintiffs against the Defendant. The
 process that Defendant was working in has also been
 recently transferred vide a Business Transfer Agreement to
 the Plaintiff No. 2. This, however, is subsequent to the
 services of the Defendant having been terminated by the
 Plaintiff No. 1. e) That the Defendant has, as an afterthought, initiated
 arbitration proceedings under a dispute resolution
 mechanism available to him by virtue of his appointment
 with the Plaintiff No. 1. f) That subsequent to the termination of the services of the
 Defendant, a conciliatory meeting was convened on

 Digitally
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 signed by
 DIVYAM DIVYAM LILA
Pitney Bowes Software India Pvt. Ltd. and anr. vs. Mr. Tapas Kumar. LILA
 Date: g) That while the services of Defendant have been terminated
 by the Plaintiff No.1 and while certain issues related only
 between Defendant and the Plaintiff No.1 have purportedly
 arisen which Defendant has raised and while the said
 purported issues are being dealt with by the Plaintiff No.1 in
 accordance with the request received/ applicable law, the
 Defendant's brother, Mr. Manas Kumar, who was a complete
 third party, for reasons best known to him, jumped into the
 fray and started addressing communications to the officials
 of the Plaintiffs who are unrelated with the issues raised by

 Digitally
 signed by
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 DIVYAM DIVYAM LILA
 Date: The allegations levied by him against Plaintiffs have been
 found to be baseless and unsubstantiated and can, at best, be
 seen as being intended to settle professional and personal
 Digitally
 signed by
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 DIVYAM DIVYAM LILA
 Date: s) Hence, suit is filed seeking an order of Permanent Injunction
 and thereby restraining the Defendant from issuing,
 Digitally
 signed by
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 DIVYAM DIVYAM
 Date: 2. Written Statement: Digitally
 signed by
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 DIVYAM DIVYAM LILA
 Date: DIVYAM LILA
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 LILA Date: That the present case is the counter blast to the numerous
 cases filed by the defendant. k) That the all the posts made by the defendant on social media
 are not defamatory and are merely in request mode for
 asking for policy documents in order to proceed further for
 justice. l) That none of the twitter posts are defamatory nor it was to
 malign the plaintiffs, rather it was a voice for justice as they
 were non­responsive for several months. The defendant
 being employee of plaintiff no.1, plaintiff no1 being
 subsidiary of Pitney Bowes USA and other sister companies,
 the defendant has closed working relationship with them in
 nature of employer­ employee. 3. Issues framed on 22.02.2022: 4. Thereafter matter was listed for plaintiff's evidence, however,
 defendant failed to appear and cross­examine the plaintiffs and
 thus the defendant was proceeded ex­parte and ex­parte PE was
 recorded and matter was listed for final arguments. Plaintiff's Ex­Parte Evidence: 5. The plaintiffs examined two witnesses on its behalf i.e. Sh. Abhishek Gaur, AR of plaintiff no.1 and 2 stepped into the
 witness box and examined as PW1. In his testimony, PW1
 tendered his evidence by way of affidavit being Ex.PW1/1 and
 also relied upon the following documents: n) The email dt. 19.2.2020 and its trailing email dt. 17.2.2020 is
 Ex.PW1/14. (colly), two pages. Email dt. 20.02.2020 is
 Ex.PW1/15.(colly) two pages. o) Copy of the order dt. 29.11.2019 passed by Labour Officer,
 Gurgaon­III is Ex.PW1/16. p) Copy of the order dt. 28.1.2020 passed by Labour Officer,
 Gurgaon­III is Ex.PW1/17. q) Copy of the order dt. 6.11.2019 passed by Labour Officer, Hari
 Nagar is Ex.PW1/18. r) Copy of the order dt. 17.12.2019 passed by Labour Officer,
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 Digitally
 signed by
Pitney Bowes Software India Pvt. Ltd. and anr. vs. Mr. Tapas Kumar. DIVYAM DIVYAM LILA
 Date: bb) Email dt. 23.2.2020 and email dt. 23.2.2020 alongwith trailing
 emails is Ex.PW1/31. (colly) Page no.24,25 and 26.
 cc) Twitter posts of the defendant post filing of the suit and till
 16.07.2020 and were filed alongwith application under order 7
 rule 14 CPC by the plaintiffs are Ex.PW1/32 (colly). (Page
 running from 17 to 115). dd) Affidavit under Section 65 B of the Indian Evidence Act
 is Ex.PW1/33. Digitally
 signed by
 DIVYAM LILA
 DIVYAM Date: 6. The plaintiffs also got the PW2 Ms. Renu Shekhawat, AR of
 the plaintiffs examined who reiterated the contents of the plaint
 and further deposed that she is the H.R manager of plaintiffs
 no.2 since 01.08.2012, and that defendant has caused nuisance,
 defame plaintiffs at various forums including journalistic
 publications and news shows, social media posts and trade
 association by way of barrage of communications. No Cross examination was done as the defendant had already
 been proceeded ex parte. 7. PE was closed on 06.06.2022, and ex­parte final arguments
 were heard on 27.07.2022. Although, the defendant was
 proceeded ex­parte, but defendant had appeared and court had
 heard the arguments on behalf of defendant as well. It is
 pertinent to note that the defendant has been appearing in the
 present matter in person only, and numerous times the
 defendant is referred to DLSA for appointment of LAC, and
 further advised to engage a counsel, but the defendant was
 adamant in appearing on his own and had even communicated
 the legal implication and contingency of failure to engage his
 own counsel in vernacular language on 03.08.2021. Even then,
 Digitally
 signed by
 DIVYAM LILA
 DIVYAM Date: Pitney Bowes Software India Pvt. Ltd. and anr. vs. Mr. Tapas Kumar.
Judgment dated 08.08.2022 Page no. 17 of 23
 the defendant failed to engage a counsel and thus the court has
 proceeded in a manner deeming that the defendant is having
 sufficient competency to fight the case without causing
 prejudice to his interests, as already numerous adjournments
 had been given by the court. 8. Hence, final arguments were heard. Ex­ parte Arguments: 9. During the Ex­parte arguments, Ld. Counsel for plaintiffs
 adverted to the numerous tweets, screen shot numerous emails,
 conduct of defendant as appearing from numerous proceedings
 between the parties reflecting from the order sheets. 10. He further relied upon the legal notice and the postal receipt. He further submitted that the defendant chose not to defend the
 suit, by leading the D.E and in any which case the defendant
 has failed to deny the averments made by the plaintiff as
 defendant has no where in his WS denied making these tweets
 and social media posts. He further submitted that the numerous
 tweets, which defendant says is a voice of justice, is no where
 reasonable, diligent and in good faith, rather all the social
 media posts appear to be malafide, distasteful and salacious as
 defendant has used words like "HR - spine­less",
 "malagacious practice" allegation of criminal acts, allegation Digitally signed DIVYAM by DIVYAM LILA
 LILA Date: 2022.08.08
 15:09:01 +0530 Civil Suit No. 169/2020 Pitney Bowes Software India Pvt. Ltd. and anr. vs. Mr. Tapas Kumar.
Judgment dated 08.08.2022 Page no. 18 of 23
 against the lawyers and legal team, address to media / TV
 channels, numerous employees of plaintiffs, numerous
 magazines and other unrelated persona for purpose of
 publishing and with intention of publishing the defamatory
 material. He further submitted that the defendant had already
 approached numerous legal forum to air his grievances, and
 hence, it cannot be said that he was raising his voice of justice,
 that to, to the unrelated parties. He further submitted that the
 defendant has used words like Mafia Raaj, allegation of forging
 the documents, allegation of criminal conspiracy, racism and
 similar allegations. 11.Ld. Counsel for plaintiffs argued that the suit of the plaintiffs
 should be decreed as the testimony of PW1 remains
 uncontroverted along with the corroborative evidence on the
 record. 12.The defendant on the other hand argued that the publication of
 social media posts were made in attempt to reach out to the
 plaintiffs who had blocked him from all communication
 channels. His posts were an attempt to raise his concern and
 none of them are defamatory. Findings and reasoning: 13.Heard. Perused. Considered. 14.The plaintiffs have sufficiently discharged the burden of proof
 placed upon him by virtue of Section 101 Indian Evidence Act,
 1872. The PW1 has testified in the affidavit of evidence that the
 defendant had been posting irrelevant, defamatory, vexatious
 social media posts to defame and browbeat the plaintiffs and
 has been sending the incessant emails. 15.The defendant has failed to aver any where in the WS that he
 was not the publisher of the social media posts or the emails.
 No where has the defendant denied making all the allegations in
 the WS. The defendant has failed to lead defense evidence to
 prove that the allegations that were made by him were truthful
 and also failed to prove that neither of the social media posts
 were published or intended to publish. On perusal of the
 barrage of emails, social media posts to various IDs by the
 defendant, it appears that defendant is miffed with the
 termination by the plaintiffs company and hence, has adopted a
 mechanism of making social media posts and emails to as many
 people as he can to garner some attention and creating traction
 towards his cause. The certain intention of tagging social media
 handles of newspaper agencies, magazines and publishing
 houses to his posts indicate that he wanted to publish his tweets
 to the world, and the said posts are available on the public
 domain in the open account to be read by anyone. Although, the Digitally signed by DIVYAM DIVYAM LILA
Civil Suit No. 169/2020 LILA Date: 16.The testimony of PW1 has remained uncontroverted. Reference
 can be placed upon the Judgement of Hon'ble High Court of
 Delhi in M/s. Eco Lab I.MC.N vs. Eco Labs Ltd., 2011(185)
 DLT 664, wherein it was held that if the defendant has failed to
 cross­examine the plaintiffs, the evidence of plaintiffs is to be
 presumed to be correct. In view of the fact that the testimony of
 PW1 has remained unrebutted, his testimony on oath is
 accepted as correct. There is no reason to disbelieve the same. Conclusion: 17.The suit of the plaintiffs is therefore decreed in the favour of the
 plaintiffs and against the defendant, the Defendant is directed
 to; a) Permanently restrain himself and his pseudonyms and

 profiles from publication of any defamatory, libelous
 material against the plaintiffs, its officials, clients, directors,
 employees, business associates, advocates by way of emails,
 letters, SMSes, social media posts, printer electronic media
 or any other manner to the third party or general public
 including journalist, business associates, investors and
 shareholders. b) Restrain himself from communicating to the plaintiffs, its
 officials, directors, employees including their business Digitally signed by DIVYAM Civil Suit No. 169/2020 DIVYAM LILA
Pitney Bowes Software India Pvt. Ltd. and anr. vs. Mr. Tapas Kumar. LILA Date: 18.Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 19.File be consigned to Record Room after compliance with due
 formalities. Pitney Bowes Software India Pvt. Ltd. and anr. vs. Mr. Tapas Kumar.
Judgment dated 08.08.2022 Page no. 23 of 23