Per Deepak Roshan, J. The instant application has been preferred by the petitioner for the

 following reliefs:- 7, Annexure-8, Annexure-10, Annexure-12 Series & Annexure-14) issued
 by the two different Wings of Central Goods & Services Tax be quashed
 and set aside and the State GST be allowed to carry the further
 proceedings. 2. During the pendency of the writ petition, the Petitioner filed an

Interlocutory Application vide I.A. No. 9286/2023 inter-alia challenging the

attachment of bank accounts of the Petitioner by issuing Form GST DRC-22 dated

30.04.2023, issued by the Respondent No.5 herein (Senior Intelligence Officer,

DGGI, Jamshedpur) and more than 7 Bank Accounts have been frozen. 3. The brief facts of the case lie in a very narrow campus. The Petitioner is the

proprietor of M/s. Manish Trading Company, Lalgutwa, Ranchi, having GSTIN No.

20AHUPN9856C2ZZ and is carrying on the business of trading of Iron & Steels

and Cements, since 2017-18. As per the averments made in the writ petition, the

purchases and sales are duly reflected in the GST returns furnished by the Petitioner

and the outward tax liability is adjusted against the Input Tax Credit available to the

Petitioner. On 16.03.2023, an inspection was carried out by the Intelligence Bureau of

the State Goods & Service Tax, and in terms thereof GST INS-01 has been issued

and after the inspection is concluded, the GST Officers fixed the date for furnishing

books of accounts. As per the Petitioner an amount of Rs.34.00 lakhs from the Cash

ledger of the Petitioner and Rs.06.00 lakhs from the proprietorship firm of his wife

were made to deposit. While the proceedings had been initiated by the State Goods & Services

Tax Department, the Petitioner was served with a notice dated 10.04.2023 by the

Preventive Branch of Central Goods & Services Tax, Ranchi with a direction to

reverse the Input Tax Credit along with interest and penalty on account of alleged

purchases from the non-existent entity. While two departments were in seisin of the proceedings, a search was

carried out by the DGGI, Intelligence Branch of CGST on 06.06.2023 and various

seizures were made and a Panchnama was also drawn to that effect. Followed by

the earlier notices of the Preventive Branch dated 10.04.2023, various notices were

issued from time to time viz., 07.06.2023; 21.06.2023 including Summons by the

Preventive Wing dated 26.06.2023. Simultaneously after the search was carried out

by the DGGI Unit, simultaneous Summons were issued vide Summon dated

21.06.2023; 03.07.2023; 07.07.2023; 11.07.2023 and 13.07.2023. Again on 24.07.2023, the residential flat of the Petitioner was searched and

the statement of Petitioner's wife and mother namely Mrs. Soni Narsaria and Mrs.

Usha Narsaria, were recorded. While the summons issued by the State GST

(Preventive Wing) and DGGI was to be attended, the petitioner made certain

reversal on different dates vide GST DRC 03, totaling to a sum of Rs. 3.42 Crores. Under the circumstances, since the petitioner has received summons from 3

Departments of GST, the petitioner has approached this Court, seeking a declaration

that the authority who has initiated the proceedings prior in point of time, shall be

the only authority to carry out the proceedings. In order to buttress the argument,

the petitioner has relied upon Notification No. 39/2017-Central Tax dated

13.10.2017 and the Clarification bearing D.O.F. No. CBEC/20/43/01/2017-

GST(Pt.) dated 5.10.2018, in terms of which, it is sought to be impressed: section (1) of section 6 of the respective State GST Acts respective State Tax
 officers and the Central Tax officers respectively are authorised to be the proper
 officers for the purposes of respective Acts and no separate notification is
 required for exercising the said powers in this case by the Central Tax Officers
 under the provisions of the State GST Act. It is noteworthy in this context that the
 registered person in GST are registered under both the CGST Act and the
 respective SGST/UTGST Act. 3.3 The confusion seems to be arising from the fact that, the said sub-section
 provides for notification by the Government if such cross empowerment is to be
 subjected to conditions. It means that notification would be required only if any
 conditions are to be imposed. For example, Notification No. 39/2017-CT dated
 13.10.2017 restricts powers of the State Tax officers for the purposes of refund
 and they have been specified as the proper officers only under section 54 and 55 of the CGST Act and not under rule 96 of the CGST Rules, 2017 (IGST Refund on
 exports). If no notification is issued to impose any condition, it means that the
 officers of State and Centre have been appointed as proper officer for all the
 purpose of the CGST Act and SGST Acts. 4. Further, it may kindly be noted that a notification under section 6(1) of the
 CGST Act would be part of subordinate legislation which instead of empowering
 the officer under the Act, can only be used to impose conditions on the powers
 given to the officers by the section. In the absence or any such conditions, the
 power of Cross- empowerment under section 6(1) of the CGST Act is absolute and
 not conditional. 5. Mr. Nitin Pasari, learned counsel for the petitioner assisted by Mr.

Shubham Choudhary has argued at length and has taken this court through the

relevant provisions of the State GST as also, the Central GST Act 2017, which is

pari-materia the same and which thus are profitably quoted for ready reference: 6. - Authorisation of officers of State tax or Union territory tax as proper officer
 in certain circumstances - Much emphasis has been laid by Mr. Pasari on the issue of 'cross

empowerment' viz., section. 6(2)(b) read with the Notification & the Clarification

issued dated 05.10.2018 and 22.06.2020. He contends that undisputedly and

undeniably, the entire proceedings were initiated as recent as 16.03.2023 by the

inspecting team of State GST and based upon which, certain deposits have also

been made and the State has also issued summons and notices from time to time, the

last being 01.09.2023 under the signature of Assistant Commissioner of State Taxes

(Investigation Bureau), Ranchi Circle, Ranchi. 6. Mr. Pasari has further contended that attachment of Bank Accounts by

issuing GST DRC 22 has been carried out, exercising powers under section 83 of

the Central Goods & Services Tax Act, 2017, which is in conflict with the

notification issued by the CBEC from time to time, concerning guidelines for

attachment of Bank Accounts. In order to buttress this submissions, the petitioner

has relied upon the judgments rendered in the case of Vipul Chandra Pursottam

Das Mahant Vs. Assistant Commissioner of State Taxes passed by the Gujarat

High Court in R/Special Civil Application No. 9488 of 2023 dated 22.06.2023,

relevant portion of which reads as follows: 7. Learned counsel for the petitioner further relied upon the judgment and

order dated 07.01.2021 passed by the Delhi High Court reported in 2021 SCC

OnLine Del 3450 ( RCI Industries & Technologies Ltd. Vs. Commissioner Dgst

Delhi & Others .), which reads as follows: 3. It is accordingly clarified that the officers of both Central tax and State tax are
 authorized to initiate intelligence based enforcement action on the entire
 taxpayer's base irrespective of the administrative assignment of the taxpayer to
 any authority. The authority which initiates such action is empowered to complete
 the entire process of investigation, issuance of SCN, adjudication, recovery, filing
 of appeal etc. arising out of such action. 4. In other words, if an officer of the Central tax authority initiates intelligence
 based enforcement action against a taxpayer administratively assigned to State
 tax authority, the officers of Central tax authority would not transfer the said case
 to its Sate tax counterpart and would themselves take the case to its logical
 conclusions. 5. Similar position would remain in case of intelligence based enforcement action
 initiated by officers of State tax authorities against a taxpayer administrative
 assigned to the Central tax authority. 6. It is also informed that GSTN is already making changes in the IT system in this
 regard. 16. Further clarity on the issue of cross-empowerment of State GST and Central GST
officers is also visible in a recent letter issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes
and Customs being No. CBEC20/10/07/2019-GST dated 22 June, 2020 which reads
as follows- 3.2 Thus in terms of sub-section (1) of section 6 of the CGST Act and subsection (1)
 of section 6 of the respective State GST Acts respective State Tax officers and the
 Central Tax officers respectively are authorised to be the proper officers for the
 purposes of respective Acts and no separate notification is required for exercising
 the said powers in this case by the Central Tax Officers under the provisions of the
 State GST Act. It is noteworthy in this context that the registered person in GST are
 registered under both the CGST Act and the respective SGST/UTGST Act.
 3.3 The confusion seems to be arising from the fact that, the said subsection provides
 for notification by the Government if such cross empowerment is to be subjected to
 conditions. It means that notification would be required only if any conditions are to
 be imposed. For example, Notification No. 39/2017-CT dated 13.10.2017 restricts
 powers of the State Tax officers for the purposes of refund and they have been
 specified as the proper officers only under section 54 and 55 of the CGST Act and
 not under rule 96 of the CGST Rules, 2017 (IGST Refund on exports). If no
 notification is issued to impose any condition, it means that the officers of State and
 Centre have been appointed as proper officer for all the purpose of the CGST Act and SGST Acts." 4. Further, it may kindly be noted that a notification under section 6(1) of the CGST
 Act would be part of subordinate legislation which instead of empowering the officer
 under the Act, can only be used to impose conditions on the powers given to the
 officers by the section. In the absence or any such conditions, the power of Cross-
 empowerment under section 6(1) of the CGST Act is absolute and not conditional." 8. Learned counsel has also relied upon the judgment of Calcutta High Court

reported in 2022 SCC OnLine Cal 862 ( Ideal Unique Realtors Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. Vs.

Union of India & Others ), which thus read as follows: 9. Mr. Pasari lastly submits that the petitioner having suo-moto deposited an

amount of Rs. 40.00 lakhs and having reversed an amount of Rs. 3.42 crores, clearly

goes on to suggest that the petitioner is not fly by the night assessee and has been

discharging his statutory obligations under the Act. The petitioner has also

contended that the attachment of Bank Accounts is bad in law, since the same

suffers from the vices of excessive jurisdiction, inasmuch as, till date there is no

determination of any liability whatsoever and the petitioner is not in a position to

understand as to whom he has to furnish documents or give statement, inasmuch as,

the petitioner cannot be made to succumb to the jurisdiction of all the three

departments and as such, the attachment also is bad in law. 10. Counter affidavit has been filed by the respective Respondents, inter-alia

denying the allegation and contending therein: M/s Manish Trading Company, Prop: Vivek Narsaria (herein referred to as the
 petitioner) is one of the availer/ beneficiary of fake invoices issued by "Fake
 GST Invoicing Gang" of Noida. So, DGGI, Jamshedpur regional unit
 Jamshedpur under the direction of Director General of Goods and Service Tax
 Intelligence, New Delhi had conducted search at the principal place of
 business of the petitioner under Section 67(2) of the Central Goods and Service
 Tax Act, 2017 on 06.06.2023 and fake GST Tax invoices issued by fake GSTIN
 entities of "Fake GST Invoicing Gang" of Noida cases, were recovered and
 seized. Thereafter, the instant investigations against the petitioner started by
 the Directorate General of GST Intelligence, Regional Unit, Jamshedpur
 (hereinafter referred to as DGGI, JRU for brevity). The search on 06.06.2023 10 was conducted by the respondent No. 05 of the Writ and who is the Senior
 Investigating Officer of the instant case at DGGI, JRU, Jamshedpur.
 The instant proceedings have not been initiated by the State GST authority but
 by the Centre at Apex Level i.e. DGGI, New Delhi and DGGI, JRU,
 Jamshedpur is well within the jurisdiction authority under provisions of Section 6 of the Act read with letter F.No. CBEC/20/43/01/2017-GST(pt).
 dated 05.10.2018 (Annexure-19 of the writ petition) and letter F.No. CBEC-
 20/10/07/2019-GST dated 22.06.2020 (Annexure-20 of the writ petition) to
 proceed and conclude the instant investigation. Investigation so far conducted reveals that many fake GSTIN entities have been
 created all over the India misusing Permanent Account Number (PAN) &
 Aadhaar Number of another person(s) for the purpose of preparing bogus bills
 and auto populating fake Input Tax Credit in the GSTR-2A of the targeted
 beneficiaries firms. These so created GSTIN entities are not real business
 entity, supplying goods or services as their corresponding income tax returns
 are not commensurate with their GSTIN transactions. Further, investigation so
 far conducted also revealed that the petitioner have availed fake GST input tax
 credit from GSTIN entities of other states like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh,
 Delhi etc. and utilized it by passing it to other states GSTIN entity like Bihar,
 Odisha etc.. Hence the instant investigations against the said petitioner is
 spread over inter-states' jurisdiction and DGGI having pan India jurisdiction
 is most suitable to investigate such cases. State GST normally prefers to
 transfer such cases to DGGI. 6. The instant proceedings have not been initiated by the State GST authority
 but by the centre at Apex level i.e., DGGI, New Delhi and as such DGGI, JRU,
 Jamshedpur is well within its jurisdiction under Section 6 of the Act read with
 letter F.No. CBEC/20/43/01/2017-GST(pt) dated 05.10.2018 and letter F.No.
 CBEC-20/10/07/2019-GST dated 22.06.2020 to proceed and conclude it. 2) Respondent No. 4 (Assistant Commissioner, CGST & CX, Ranchi) 5. Instant proceedings have been initiated by the other formation of CGST
 i.e, CGST & CX, Jamshedpur Commissionerate, CGST & CX. Raipur
 Commissionerate and further follow-up action was initiated by the Respondent
 no. 4. 7. The investigation conducted by the Respondent no. 4 is based upon E-way
 Bill data revelation that the Petitioner had received fake GST Tax Invoices
 from multiple fake GSTIN entities pertaining to different states and supplied in
 turn equal amount of fake GST invoices to different GSTIN entities. 3) Respondent no. 1, 2 & 3 (State of Jharkhand) 10. The writ petitioner is an assessee under the answering respondents and
 hence the answering respondents are duly competent to enquire into the same. 17. The investigation being occasioned by the answering respondents is just,
 proper and in accordance with law. 11. During the course of arguments, learned Counsel for the Respondent No.5,

Mr. Ratnesh Kumar, Sr. Standing Counsel has tried to distinguish the initiation of

proceedings by the State Authorities and the proceedings before the DGGI and

much has been said by the DGGI upon bursting of gang at Noida operating in

issuance of fake bills, without supply of goods. 12. Learned counsel for the State has tried to justify that the proceedings by the

State GST Officers do not overlap with that of the proceedings by the CGST or the

DGGI. 13. Learned counsel for the CGST has adopted the arguments of the

Respondent No. 5, in verbatim. 14. Having heard the arguments advanced by respective parties and having

perused the documents brought on record and the statements & averments made in

the respective Counter Affidavits and materials available on record, we find that

bare perusal of section 6 of the Act, especially Section 6(2)(b) , when read with the

Clarification dated 05.10.2018, further read with Clarification dated 22.06.2020,

when read together, it clearly denotes and implies that it is a chain of a particular

event happening under the Act and every & any enquiry/investigation carried out at

the behest of any of the Department are interrelated. Even if, we accept the

submission of the Respondent No. 5 that the proceedings initiated by the

Respondent No. 5 is on the basis of an information received from Noida; in that

event also, we are at loss to say that the DGGI is raising a question about credibility

and competence of the State GST Authorities, in carrying out the investigation

concerning wrong/inadmissible availment of Input Tax Credit, inasmuch as, the

officers of the DGGI does not enjoy any special power or privilege in comparison

with the officers of the State GST Authorities. 15. We are little hesitant to accept such argument, inasmuch as, the State

Authorities has also initiated the same very proceeding for wrong/illegal availment

of Input Tax Credit. Undeniably, the proceedings at the instance of State Authorities

or the Preventive Wing or the DGGI is at initial stage and the proceedings on the

basis of 'Search & Seizure' by the State Authorities, is prior in point of time.

Hence, Section 6(2)(b) read with clarification dated 05.10.2018, adds to the issues

raised by the petitioner herein and manifestly crystalizes that since all the 12 proceedings are interrelated, the State Authorities should continue with the

 proceedings. The issue since has also been raised with attachment of bank account,

 which we failed to understand as to what had become so emergent that prior to any

 determination or finding of any irregular/inadmissible/wrong availment of Input

 Tax Credit, the bank account had to be attached, which appears to be an 'arm

 twisting method' to make the petitioner succumb to the particular authority, which

 cannot be the dictum of the Act and we deprecate the same. 16. We are therefore of the opinion that the Preventive Wing of the CGST and

 DGGI Wing of the CGST, shall forward all their investigation carried out as against

 the petitioner and inter-related transaction to the State Authorities, who shall

 continue with the proceedings from the same stage. 17. Consequently, we therefore direct the Respondent No. 4 & 5 to make over

 the entire investigations carried till date to Respondent No. 3, who shall carry out

 further proceedings as against the petitioner in accordance with law. 18. We further direct the Respondent No. 3 to take immediate decision with

 regard to de-freezing of the bank accounts in terms of the observations made by us

 hereinabove. 19. As a result, the instant writ application is disposed of in the manner indicated
 herein above. Pending I.A., if any, also stands closed. (Rongon Mukhopadhyay, J.)

 (Deepak Roshan, J.)

Jharkhand High Court
Dated- 15 /01/2024
Amardeep/
AFR