I-SOURCING TECHNOLOGIES PVT. LTD. & 1....Applicant(s)
 Versus
 E PROCUREMENT TECHNOLOGIES LTD., & 3....Respondent(s)
 ==========================================================
 Appearance: in-reply to such draft amendment, since the Civil Applications, draft
 amendment and main petition are required to be heard and disposed of at
 the earliest, respondents - defendants have submitted oral objections to
 such draft amendment. However, to avoid delay in the disposal of main
 Special Civil Application, at present, without entering into the factual and
 other details as well as aspects, the draft amendment is allowed as prayed
 for. The amendment should be carried out in the main petition and
 amended copy of petition shall be filed on record and shall be provided to
 all concerned. However, it is made clear that granting of such amendment
 at this stage is only with a view to put an end to the main petition at the Page 1 of 10 HC-NIC Page 1 of 10 Created On Wed Sep 02 00:37:32 IST 2015
 C/CA/9335/2015 CAV ORDER

 earliest, and therefore, such amendment could not be made part of the
 pleadings before the trial Court, if such fact is not disclosed in the
 pleading before the trial Court. Similarly, if plaintiff files any application
 for similar amendment of the pleading before the trial Court, the trial
 Court shall decide it purely in accordance with law applicable to such
 proceedings and shall not influence itself to allow such amendment only
 because it is allowed in this petition. It cannot be ignored that we are
 dealing with the petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution
 of India, whereas the trial Court shall decide such application pursuant to
 relevant provision of law. 2. When both the parties have agreed to decide the main petition
 finally, Civil Applications no.9335, 9349 and 9351 of 2015 for vacating
 ex-parte ad-interim relief by different respondents, do not require separate
 hearing and orders. However, when the matter is taken up for final
 hearing because of such Civil Applications, initially, opponents herein
 being original defendants have advanced their arguments at first instance. 3. Learned Senior Counsel Mr.Kamal Trivedi appearing with
 Mr.Y.J.Trivedi for the respondents no.1 and 2 in the main petition has
 pointed out that original plaintiff has filed a Civil Suit no.1836 of 2015
 before the City Civil Court, Ahmedabad on 31.7.2015 with an application
 for interim relief to restrain the defendants from using, directly or
 indirectly, intellectual properties belonging to the plaintiff viz. data of
 their clientage, e-auction software and all other data relating to tenders.
 On first date i.e. on 31.7.2015, the Chamber Judge of City Civil Court has
 not granted ex-parte ad-interim and observed that it would not be just and
 proper to grant ex-parte ad-interim injunction order without hearing the
 other side, hence issue show-cause notice to the defendants making it
 returnable on 5.8.2015 i.e. just after five days. Such order at Annexure-A
 shows that initially though returnable date was fixed as 11.8.2015, while
 signing such order, the learned Judge has changed it to 5.8.2015, Page 2 of 10 HC-NIC Page 2 of 10 Created On Wed Sep 02 00:37:32 IST 2015
 C/CA/9335/2015 CAV ORDER

 probably because of the request by the plaintiff to keep it at the earliest. It
 is submitted that, thereby, the defendant no.1 being the main contesting
 defendant has filed written statement on returnable date itself i.e.
 5.8.2015 without seeking any adjournment or time to file such reply;
 whereas, other defendants and even plaintiff has sought time on 5.8.2015
 to file written statement and affidavit-in-rejoinder respectively. Thereby,
 matter was adjourned to 17.8.2015. Therefore, it is submitted that when
 plaintiff itself has prayed for time before the trial Court to file rejoinder
 affidavit and when Court is granting only 12 days time to file rejoinder
 affidavit, without filing a rejoinder affidavit before the trial Court, the
 plaintiff has preferred this Special Civil Application on 11.8.2015 seeking
 similar interim relief which was prayed in paragraph 42(A) of the
 application for interim relief before the Civil Court, in paragraph 9(C) of
 the present petition. By order dated 12.8.2015 the Co-ordinate Bench of
 this High Court (Coram: Hon'ble Mr.Justice Paresh Upadhyay) has by
 issuing notice, making it returnable on 14.9.2015, granted interim relief
 in terms of paragraph 9(C), which amounts to granting relief in terms of
 paragraph 42(A) of the application for interim relief before the trial
 Court, which has yet to hear and decide such application for similar
 relief, but after plaintiff files rejoinder affidavit. 4. Therefore, it is vehemently argued by the respondents that though
 trial Court has not granted ex-parte interim relief and though contesting
 defendants have already filed written statement on first returnable date
 without seeking any adjournment, and on the contrary though plaintiff
 has sought time to file rejoinder, without arguing the application at Exh.5
 before the trial Court so as to confirm appropriate relief by appropriate
 order below an application for interim injunction, present application is
 filed for similar interim relief, and therefore, it is submitted that the
 Special Civil Application itself is not maintainable and even if it is
 maintainable, then, since the trial Court has not ceased with the matter, Page 3 of 10 HC-NIC Page 3 of 10 Created On Wed Sep 02 00:37:32 IST 2015
 C/CA/9335/2015 CAV ORDER

 and since the trial Court is yet to decide the application for interim relief
 on its own merits after filing of rejoinder affidavit by the plaintiff itself,
 the Special Civil Application has no substance and deserves to be
 dismissed at the earliest. However, since there is ex-parte ad-interim
 relief in such main petition, and which was ordered to be listed after a
 month i.e. on 14.9.2015, the respondents - defendants have no option, but
 to file Civil Applications for modification of interim relief. 5. In view of such background, main petition is certainly required to
 be heard and decided at the earliest and for the purpose both the parties
 have agreed to dispose of the main petition also. 6. The development in the litigation between the parties, which is
 recorded herein above, makes it clear that though petitioner - plaintiff has
 sought time before the trial Court to file rejoinder affidavit on 5.8.2015,
 instead of requesting the trial Court to decide the application on its own
 merits, when the written statement of contesting defendants is on record,
 the plaintiff/petitioner has filed this petition, though the plaintiff should
 have requested the trial Court to decide the application at the earliest. It is
 undisputed fact that rejoinder is to be filed by the plaintiff, who is
 petitioner before this Court, and therefore, if there is any necessity to get
 interim order at the earliest, then, petitioner - plaintiff should have filed
 rejoinder affidavit immediately after 5th August and, thereby, in any case
 before 11.8.2015 when this Special Civil Application is filed and should
 have requested the trial Court to decide the application on its own merits
 at the earliest. Instead of following such practice, which is certainly
 lawful, the plaintiff - petitioner has preferred this Special Civil
 Application, wherein the main prayer is to quash and set-aside the order
 dated 31.7.2015 below an application for injunction with relief to restrain
 the respondents in terms of there prayer in paragraph 42(A) of such
 application. Thereby, though the subject matter is pending before the
 Civil Court for its adjudication in accordance with law, the petitioner - plaintiff has initiated a separate proceeding for the same relief with an
 intelligent drafting and with a prayer to quash and set-aside the order
 dated 31.7.2015. If we peruse the pleading in the petition, which runs into
 37 pages, it is more or less in the manner as if it is appeal against order
 dated 31.7.2015 by the Civil Court. Whereas, order dated 31.7.2015 to
 issue notice upon defendants, if quashed and set-aside, then there is no
 scope for the plaintiff to get any order below Exh.5, because for any
 order, ultimately reasonable opportunity certainly needs to be extended to
 the other side. Therefore, prima facie, I am of the opinion that such
 Special Civil Application, is not maintainable and it deserves to be
 dismissed in limine. 7. However, now when notices are served upon the respondents and
 when respondents have filed their Civil Applications with relevant
 documentary evidence, they were heard at length to ascertain the legality
 and validity of the impugned order as well as substance in the interim
 order. 8. However, though both the parties have argued at length, at present,
 I do not intend to decide the dispute with reference to factual details since
 injunction application is yet to be finally decided by the trial Court.
 However, the sum and substance of both the sides may be recollected
 here, which confirms that there is no substance in the petition so as to
 grant ex-parte injunction as prayed for, more particularly when matter is
 pending before the Civil Court. 9. The petitioner has while answering the reply of the respondents,
 tried to emphasize that when they are pleading secrecy of their data, non-
 disclosure of such data before the trial Court cannot be questioned and
 now in the form of draft amendment, they have come forward with
 certain more details so as to prove their case. However, it is also an
 admitted position that the factual details disclosed by draft amendment is Page 5 of 10 HC-NIC Page 5 of 10 Created On Wed Sep 02 00:37:32 IST 2015
 C/CA/9335/2015 CAV ORDER

 not disclosed in the pleadings before the Civil Court, and therefore,
 respondents are right in saying that when such facts are not part of the
 record before the Civil Court, it cannot be taken into consideration.
 However, as aforesaid, the amendment is allowed only with a view to
 avoid technicality and delay in disposing these Civil Applications and I
 do not intend to discuss or determine any factual details at this stage. 10. It is also submitted by the learned advocate for the petitioner that
 interim order dated 12.08.2015 by this Court cannot be challenged by
 way of such Civil Applications and that if at all respondents want to
 challenge such an order, they should approach the higher Court. Such
 issue is also not required to be determined at present, since we are
 deciding the main matter which has no substance, pursuant to observation
 and discussion in this order. 11. So far as secrecy of information is concerned, learned senior
 counsel Mr.Percy Kavina for the petitioner has tried to explain that
 though cell-phone towers are in public domain and its existence is known
 to all, details of its location qua particular service provider and its range,
 is certainly a secret information of that service provider and cannot be
 parted with, and therefore, there is substance regarding the secrecy of
 information of the petitioner - plaintiff. So far as defence regarding
 existence of all such information in public domain is concerned, it is
 submitted that, in fact, petitioner has created several fake IDs so as to
 identify the intruder and data theft. To explain all such orders, petitioner
 is relying upon paragraph 2.5.6 of proposed draft amendment and submits
 that it cannot be the circumstance for all its clients to get an e-mail from
 the respondents just before the renewal of the contract, to shift and
 change their service provider from plaintiff to respondents with some
 nominal difference in charges. 12. I do not find substance in any such submission for the simple Page 6 of 10 HC-NIC Page 6 of 10 Created On Wed Sep 02 00:37:32 IST 2015
 C/CA/9335/2015 CAV ORDER

 reason that even if petitioner - plaintiff is claiming secrecy of particular
 information or data and even if such information is not warranted to be
 disclosed in regular pleading viz. plaint and application for injunction, the
 law and rules specifically provides for such situation whereby any litigant
 is free to produce relevant information before the Court, claiming secrecy
 or confidentiality with an application to keep such information/details in
 safe custody and not to disclose it to the either side of the litigation and
 also to the public at large as a public record. Therefore, in fact,
 respondents are right when they claim that the perusal of the pleadings by
 the plaintiff, both before the trial Court as well as in this petition,
 confirms that there is no disclosure or even whisper that which
 information or data is secret data of the plaintiff and stolen by the
 defendant. It is further submitted that all such information and data are
 otherwise available in the public record because they mainly contain
 names and addresses with telephone numbers and e-mail IDs of different
 companies, who are interested in particular type of e-tenders. 13. It is also obvious and clear that when defendants have come
 forward with a case that so far as data is concerned, it is available in the
 public record and that too when they have purchased such record from
 some companies, which are providing compilation of such data and when
 they have produced bills of CDs purchased by them with such data, the
 plaintiff should have joined such companies, who are dealing with such
 data on commercial basis. Similarly, when defendants have come forward
 with a case that so far as software is concerned, it is neither stolen by
 them from the plaintiff's control when some of the defendants are serving
 with the plaintiff nor developed on their own as if it is copied from the
 plaintiff's source, but it was developed from a software company, which
 provides service of developing such softwares. The plaintiff has failed to
 join such company as defendant and to prove that such company has
 either stolen or obtained unauthorizedly the software of the plaintiff and Page 7 of 10 HC-NIC Page 7 of 10 Created On Wed Sep 02 00:37:32 IST 2015
 C/CA/9335/2015 CAV ORDER

 sold it to the defendants. 14. Similarly, when plaintiff's suit is based upon an allegation that
 some of the employees of defendants have stolen intellectual property of
 the plaintiff when they were serving with the plaintiff, with an allegation
 that some secret information received by such defendants when they were
 serving with the plaintiff, plaintiff has failed to disclose on record about
 their service condition which confirms that what is right, liability,
 responsibility and restrictions of such persons when they are in service of
 the plaintiff. 15. The respondents have relied upon and read-over paragraph 9(C) of
 the petition comparing it with paragraph 42(A) of the injunction
 application and first order dated 31.7.2015 so also paragraph 1(v) of Civil
 Applications. Respondents have also submitted that plaintiff has failed to
 explain and disclose any innovation in their software or even customer
 list, since details of which is not disclosed at all in the pleading though it
 is mandatory pursuant to Order VI Rules 2 and 4 of the Civil Procedure
 Code. The respondents have also explained the difference between data
 and software of both the sides referring relevant pages from the paper-
 book and relied upon the provision of Section 52(1)(aa)(ab) of the Indian
 Copyright Act, 1957. So far as decoy e-mail IDs created by the plaintiff
 to ascertain the intrusion and data theft is concerned, with reference to
 one [email protected] , which is referred and discussed in
 paragraph 2.5.6, the respondents have pointed out that, in fact, they got
 such e-mail ID from one of the CD purchased by them and invoice of
 such purchase is also produced on record. It is submitted that e-mail ID [email protected] is very well disclosed in 99DATACD.COM,
 which claims to be the biggest range of business & industrial data CD
 having 26700 e-mail IDs and has shown screen-shot of relevant website
 from where they received such e-mail ID. Therefore, there is no
 substance in the petition to get immediate interim relief. 16. Respondents are also relying upon following decisions, both on
 merits of the case and also on limited jurisdiction of this Court in such
 Special Civil Applications. However, I do not intend to discuss any such
 judgment at this stage, since the real issue is yet to be decided by the trial
 Court. Therefore, discussion and determination of any such issue would
 unnecessarily prejudice the trial Court. Respondents have also relied upon a detailed order dated
 31.01.2002 in Civil Suit no.3317 of 2001 between AIA Engineering Ltd.
 Vs. Bharat Dand & Ors. by the City Civil Court wherein all the issues
 which are involved in the present case are dealt with and which is in
 favour of the defendants. It is further submitted that said judgment has
 been confirmed by judgment dated 9.2.2007 of this High Court in Appeal
 from Order no.216 of 2002, which is also approved by order dated
 16.3.2007 in SLP (Civil) no.4327 of 2007 by the Hon'ble the Supreme
 Court. 17. However, at this stage, I do not want to discuss any such judgment
 in detail to avoid prejudice to the trial Court while deciding the interim
 application for injunction on its own merits. 18. For the aforesaid reasons, since this Court has not entered into the
 merits of the main dispute between the parties, trial Court is at liberty to
 decide it independently and in accordance with law. 19. In view of above facts and circumstances, there is no substance in
 the Special Civil Application, and therefore, the same stands dismissed,
 but the trial Court is directed to decide all the interim applications within
 four weeks from the date of receipt of writ of this order. Notice
 discharged. Interim relief stands vacated. 20. In view of the dismissal of Special Civil Application, Civil
 Applications also do not survive and stand disposed of. (S.G.SHAH, J.)
 binoy Page 10 of 10 HC-NIC Page 10 of 10 Created On Wed Sep 02 00:37:32 IST 2015