Dated this the 3rd day of November 2020

 This Bail Application filed under Section 438 of Criminal

 Procedure Code was heard through Video Conference. 2. Petitioner is the accused in Crime No.1969/2020 of

 Kottiyam Police Station. The above case is registered against the

 petitioner alleging offences punishable under Sections 354B , 354D and 384 of IPC. Section 12 r/w 11(ii), (iv) of the POCSO Act and Section 67B of the Information Technology Act is also alleged

 against the petitioner. 3. The prosecution case is that the petitioner is an

 employee in an school, in which the victim girl aged 15 years was

 studying in the year 2019. While the victim was studying in the 9 th

 standard, the petitioner had given a mobile phone and began to

 communicate with her regularly. It is the prosecution case that the

 petitioner compelled the victim to sent her nude photographs and

 videos to him and the petitioner used those obscene pictures and

 videos and blackmailed her demanding gold ornaments and

 accordingly procured a gold chain and gold anklets of 5 sovereigns. BA.No.6849/2020 3 4. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the

 learned Public Prosecutor. 5. The counsel for the petitioner vehementally argued

 that this is a false case foisted against the petitioner. The counsel

 submitted that the allegation against the petitioner is that nude

 photographs and videos were sent to the phone of the petitioner.

 The counsel submitted that the petitioner is ready to produce his

 mobile phone. The counsel also submitted that if the mobile

 phone of the victim is examined scientifically, it can be seen that

 whether any nude photographs and videos are sent by the victim

 to the phone of the petitioner. The counsel submitted that there

 may be a direction to the investigating officer to investigate on

 this aspects and thereafter this bail application can be

 considered. The counsel submitted that the petitioner is aged 19

 years and because of his childish attitude he might have

 committed some mistake and for that purpose, this Court may not

 sent him to jail without ascertaining the facts. The counsel

 submitted that the petitioner is ready to abide any condition, if

 this Court grant bail to him. The counsel submitted that

 unfortunately the petitioner fell in love with the victim girl.

 Nothing else happened. The allegations against the petitioner

 are false. The counsel submitted that the version given by the BA.No.6849/2020 4 victim is at the instance of her parents. 6. A counsel appeared for the mother of the victim. The

 counsel submitted that the petitioner not only sexually exploited

 the victim girl but he exploited her financially also. The counsel

 submitted that this Court may not release the petitioner on bail. 7. The Public Prosecutor opposed the bail application.

 The Public Prosecutor made available the statement given by the

 victim girl under Section 164 Cr.P.C also. The Public Prosecutor

 submitted that this Court may not release the petitioner on bail

 under Section 438 Cr.P.C. 8. Admittedly, the petitioner is aged 19 and the victim

 girl aged 15 years. The allegation against the petitioner is that

 the petitioner sexually abused the victim girl. The main

 allegation against the petitioner is that the petitioner insisted for

 some nude photographs and videos from the victim girl and the

 same is misused by the petitioner. It is also alleged that the

 petitioner misused the victim financially by collecting some gold

 ornaments also. It is true that whether the nude photos and

 videos are sent to the phone of the petitioner by the victim girl

 can be ascertained through scientific examination. But this Court

 cannot direct the investigating officer to do the investigation in a

 particular manner while considering the bail application. I read BA.No.6849/2020 5 the statement given by the victim under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

 While considering the bail application, I cannot ignore the

 statement given by the victim girl aged about 15 years, which is

 given under Section 164 Cr.P.C. I don't want to make any further

 observation about the merit of the case. Considering the entire

 facts and circumstances of the case, I think, the petitioner is not

 entitled to the orders under Section 438 Cr.P.C. 9. At this stage, the learned counsel for the petitioner

 submitted that the petitioner will surrender before the

 investigating officer and co-operate with the investigation.

 Therefore, this bail application is disposed of with the following

 directions: Sd/- P.V.KUNHIKRISHNAN

 JUDGE

 ab