This appeal is preferred by the revenue challenging the

order passed by the Tribunal granting various reliefs to the

assessee. 2. Assessee is a leading exporter of software. It filed

its return of income on 27.11.1998 admitting a total income of

Rs.3,33,91,389/-. The return was processed under Section

143(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short hereinafter

referred to as 'the Act') on 23.8.2000 accepting the income

returned. The case was selected for scrutiny and notice under Section 143(2) of the Act was issued. In response to the notice,

details called for were also filed. After going through various

details and explanations offered by the assessee, the

assessment was finalized. 3. Assessee paid a sum of Rs.44.43 lakhs to National

Security Depository Limited (NSDL) as one time custody

charges for 80,08,600 shares. Consequent to introduction of

Demat, all share holders have to deposit their shares with

depositories. The assessee company had taken over the

liability of payment of Rs.44.43 lakhs as one time custody

charges. The assessing officer has held that the assessee has

paid the said amount as a goodwill measure and therefore the

same is not allowable as deduction under Section 37(1) of the 4 Act. He further held that it cannot be allowed as a revenue

expenditure as the assessee derives an enduring benefit from

one time payment of custody charges and is capital nature.

Therefore, Rs.44.43 lakhs was disallowed. 4. The assessee made donations amounting to Rs.

52.34 lakhs and entire amount was debited to Keonics Unit. In

the computation of income, entire donations paid were added

back to income of Keonics unit and exemption under Section10A was claimed on the entire income of Keonics unit.

The assessing authority observed that the entire gross total

income of Rs.30,24,58,224/- is the income relatable to units

other than Keonics unit, from which assessee has claimed

deduction under Section 80G of Rs.15 Lakhs. Once donations

debited in Profit and Loss Account is added back to Net Profit

of Keonics Unit, it becomes the income of Keonics Unit on

which exemption under Section 10A has been allowed. Hence,

claiming of deduction under Section 80G from gross total

income (which does not include 10A unit's income) amounts to

claiming double deduction for single outgo. Section 80G(5A) 5 provides that, if a deduction is allowed under that Section, no

other deduction is allowable under any other provisions of the

Act for the sums specified in sub-section (2) of Section 80G .

The contention of the assessee is that the word 'deduction'

used in the sub-clause does not cover "exemption

allowed under Section 10A ". In the letter dated 12.12.2000 the

assessee contends that the donation is an application of

income and there is no such stipulation in Section 80G that

donation is to be made out of taxable income only. Rejecting

the above contentions, the assessing authority held that,

deduction under Section 80G claimed amounting to Rs.15

Lakhs is not allowed, since the donation does not form part of

the gross total income. 5. The assessing authority held that, as could be seen

from the annual report for the year 1997-98, assessee has

installed traffic signals at Bannerghatta Circle in Bangalore at

a cost of Rs.7,37,720/- which is included in donations of

Rs.52,34,364/- added back to Keonics Unit, the income from

which is exempt under Section 10A . Assessee vide letter dated 6 12.12.2000 submitted that, it has an office at Bannerghatta

Circle, where 500 employees are working. Due to severe traffic

congestion, its employees had to wait for longer time to reach

the office resulting in delay in completing the projects. Hence,

the traffic signals have been installed to ensure that employees

of Bannerghatta Circle would reach office in time without

facing any traffic problems and hence should be allowed as

revenue expenses. The assessing authority held that

regulating traffic is the lookout of Traffic Police and

Government and not that of the assessee. If traffic signals were

not there in such busy circle, traffic police will be very much

available to regulate the traffic. Even assuming that installation

of traffic signals will regulate traffic better than traffic police,

what the employees of assessee would have been benefited

from installation of traffic signals will be very remote. Hence,

benefit from installation of traffic signals derived by assessee

being very remote, the expenditure cannot be allowed under Section 37(1) of the Act. In fact, what assessee has done is to

donate these traffic signals to State Government which is not

allowable as deduction, as donation in kind is not eligible for 7 deduction under Section 80G . Therefore, the said amount was

added back as the income of the Keonics Unit. 6. A sum of Rs.1,23,09,815/- is debited towards

provision for post-sales customers support. In the unit-wise

Profit and Loss Account enclosed to return of income,

Rs.76,32,363/- has been debited to Keonics (10A Unit) and

Rs.46,77,452/- to others. As could be seen from assessee's

letter dated 20.2.2001, the above provision is made at 2% of

amount billed till year end in respect of outstanding fixed price

projects as at the year end. In the subsequent year, the

provision is written back to the income statement and fresh

provision is created. On being asked, what is the amount of

actual expenditure debited in provision account in financial

years 1997-98 and 1998-99 towards post sales customer

support, assessee states that such expenditure gets accounted

under normal heads and there is no specific debit to warranty

provision in any year. Since the provision is written back on

the first day of the accounting year and actual expenses

incurred towards post-sales support are debited to respective 8 heads, it is not possible to give the details called for. However,

the assessee claims that the above provision is allowable as

deduction in view of various case laws cited. Therefore, the

assessing authority held that no scientific basis is followed but,

only an estimate of provision is made at 2% of sale value

without any basis. The liability for warranty arises only when a

customer makes a claim due to failure in the performance of

product sold by the company within a specified time. Before

making a warranty claim, customer should also prove that the

failure of the products supplied are due to programme defects

and not on account of customer's mishandling. The making of

warranty claim in future and allowing the same is dependent

on several factors which are contingent and beyond the scope

of a fair estimate. It is not possible to determine with

reasonable degree of accuracy that so much of the claim would

be made in future and that so much of the same would have to

be honoured. Hence, the Assessing Officer held that the above

provision made is not ascertainable with reasonable degree of

accuracy and is of a contingent nature, which was disallowed. 9 7. In so far as the amount deductable under Section

80HHE is concerned, assessee was asked to furnish complete

details of expenditure in foreign currency (unit wise) vide letter

dated 29.11.2000. Assessee vide letter dated 5.3.2001 has

stated that the total expenditure pertaining to 80HHE is

Rs.31,93,41,102/- consisting of travel expenses, professional

charges and other expenses but, did not furnish further break-

up of expenditure. Therefore, the entire amount was treated as

expenses incurred for providing technical services outside India

and hence reduced from export turnover and total turnover.

Thus he proceeded to frame the assessment order. 8. Aggrieved by the said order, the assessee preferred

an appeal to the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals).

Though the appeal was partly allowed, the Appellate Authority

confirmed the findings on the aforesaid issues. 9. Therefore, aggrieved by the said order of the

Appellate Authority, the assessee preferred an appeal to the

Tribunal. The Tribunal on re-appreciation of the entire 10 evidence on record and taking note of the various judgments

relied upon by the parties held that, the charges paid to NSDL

having not brought into existence any capital asset and is for

the purpose of efficient functioning of the business, it was held

as business revenue expenses and allowable as such under Section 37(1) of the Act. After referring to the several

judgments including the judgment of a Division Bench of this

Court the Tribunal held that, the installation of traffic signals

at their cost was prompted solely with a view to benefit its

employees who were getting repeatedly involved in traffic jams

and other hazards, as such they were a distressed lot and

therefore the said expenditure incurred is laid out wholly and

exclusively for the purposes of business and therefore allowable

as deduction under Section 37(1) of the Act. Similarly, the

Tribunal held Section 10A is an exemption Section whereas Section 80G is a deduction Section and therefore there would

be no double deduction of the same item, even if a benefit

under both the sections have been claimed. There has been no

double deduction in respect of the same item of expenditure.

Therefore, the donation of Rs.15 Lakhs qualifies for deduction 11 under Section 80G and accordingly it was allowed. The

Tribunal held that the provision made for the warranty liability

was an ascertained liability and that it could not be treated as

a contingent liability. Since the liability is a accrued liability

and the estimate is on sound accounting principle, the liability

is allowable. The disallowance of Rs.46,77,452/- was deleted.

In so far as the benefit under Section 80HHE is concerned, the

Tribunal held that, as the Appellate Authority has merely

followed the order of his predecessor while disallowing the

claim which has not been approved by the Tribunal, they

directed the assessing authority to follow the order of the

Tribunal dated 31.3.2005 while computing deduction under Section 80HHE . 10. Aggrieved by this order of the Tribunal, the

revenue is in appeal. 11. This appeal was admitted to consider the following

substantial questions of law: - incurred by the assessee in installing

 traffic signals at Bannerghata Circle in

 Bangalore which is included under

 donations constitutes business

 expenditure under Section 37(1) of the

 Act? (4) Whether the assessee is entitled to 2% of

 sale price towards warranty charges and

 consequently entitled to claim deductions?

 (5) Whether the assessee is entitled to the

 benefit of deduction under Section 80HHE in a sum of Rs.31,93,41,102/- which is

 treated as expenditure incurred for

 providing technical services outside India?

FIRST SUBSTANTIAL QUESTION OF LAW 12. The Depositories Act, 1996 was enacted by the

Parliament to provide for regulation of depositories in securities

and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. In

line with developments in the securities industry worldwide

and in the wake of the increasing trading volume on the local

bourses, there emerged the need to replace the existing

settlement and clearing system with "Depository System" or a

Scripless Trading System. India has the largest number of

listed companies in the world today. It also boasts of a very 14 large investor population and substantial volumes of trade. The

present system of settlement based on physical delivery of

paper certificates was probably adequate in the past when

there was just a handful of investors participating in the

transactions of the capital market. The old trading system was

plagued by various problems such as, unwarranted delay in

transfer of shares, duplicate/fake/forged shares, bad

deliveries, Court injunction cases, loss in

transit/theft/mutilation, disputes on Corporate actions, huge

transaction cost, longer settlement cycles, poor infrastructure,

large paper volumes. All these factors served as barriers to the

entry of an investor into the market. This failure gave the idea

of setting up of an electronic system with scripless trading and

quick settlement cycles. National Securities Depository Limited

(NSDL) was inaugurated as the first depository in India on 8th

November, 1996. Holding and handling of securities in

electronic form eliminates problems that are normally

associated with physical certificates, like mutilation due to

careless handling, loss in transit, problems of bad delivery etc.,

Today there exists 24 stock exchanges in India, but trading in 15 dematerialized securities occur only at National Stock

Exchange (NSE), Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), Calcutta

Stock Exchange (CSE), Delhi Stock Exchange (DSE). 13. The term "Depository" has been defined under the

Act. The term "Depository" means a place where something is

deposited for safekeeping; a bank in which funds or securities

are deposited by others, usually under the terms of a specific

depository agreement. Though the terms "depository" and

"depository in banking" are not synonymous they have come to

be used interchangeably in banking. "Depository" means one

who receives a deposit of money, securities, instruments, or

other property; a person to whom something is entrusted; a

trustee, a person or group entrusted with the preservation or

safekeeping of something. A depository cannot act as a

depository unless it obtains a certificate of commencement of

business from the Board (SEBI). All the securities held by a

depository shall be dematerialized and shall be in a fungible

form. A depository is not a mere custodian of securities but it

can be compared to a bank. If an investor wants to utilize the 16 services offered by a depository, the investor has to open an

account with the depository through a participant, similar to

the opening of an account with any of the bank branches to

utilize services of that bank. Registration of the depository is

required under SEBI (Depositories and Participants)

Regulations, 1996 and is a precondition to the functioning of

the depository. Depository and depository participant both are

regulated by Securities and Exchange Board of India. 14. Clause 2.1.5 of the SEBI (Disclosure and Investor

Protection) Guidelines, 2000 reads as under : - 16. The Apex Court in the case of EMPIRE JUTE CO.

LTD Vs. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX reported in 124

ITR Pg1 at page 10 has held as under: ".........There may be cases where
 expenditure, even if incurred for obtaining
 advantage of enduring benefit, may, none- the-less, be on revenue account and the test
 of enduring benefit may break down. lt is not
 every advantage of enduring nature acquired
 by an assessee that brings the case within
 the principle laid down in this test. What is
 material to consider is the nature of the
 advantage in a commercial sense and it is
 only where the advantage is in the capital
 field that the expenditure would be
 disallowable on an application of this test. If
 the advantage consists merely in facilitating
 the assessee's trading operations or enabling
 the management and conduct of the
 assessee's business to be carried on more
 efficiently or more profitably while leaving the
 fixed capital untouched, the expenditure
 would be on revenue account, even though
 the advantage may endure for an indefinite
 future. The test of enduring benefit is 23 therefore not a certain or conclusive test and
it cannot be applied blindly and mechanically
without regard to the particular facts and
circumstances of a given case. But even if this
test were applied in the present case, it does
not yield a conclusion in favour of the
Revenue. Here, by purchase of loom hours no
new asset has been created. There is no
addition to or expansion of the profit making
apparatus of the assessee. The income
earning machine remains what it was prior to
the purchase of loom hours. The assessee is
merely enabled to operate the profit making
structure for a longer number of hours. And
this advantage is clearly not of an enduring
nature. It is limited in its duration to six
months and, moreover, the additional
working hours per week transferred to the
assessee have to be utilised during the week.
and cannot be carried forward to the next
week. It is, therefore, not possible to say that
any advantage of enduring benefit in the
capital field was acquired by the assessee in
purchasing loom hours and the test of
enduring benefit cannot help the Revenue." 24 17. From the aforesaid two judgments of the Apex

Court, it is clear that if the expenditure is made for acquiring

or bringing into existence an asset or advantage for the

enduring the benefit of the business it is properly attributable

to capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure. If on the

other hand, it is made not for the purpose of bringing into

existence any such asset advantage but for running the

business or working it with a view to produce the profits it is a

revenue advantage. If any such asset or advantage for the

enduring benefit of the business is thus acquired or brought

into existence it would be immaterial whether the source of the

payment was the capital or the income of the concern or

whether the payment was made once and for all or was made

periodically. The aim and object of the expenditure would

determine the character of the expenditure whether it is a

capital expenditure or a revenue expenditure. The source or

the manner of the payment would then be of no consequence.

There may be cases where expenditure, even if incurred for

obtaining advantage of enduring benefit, may, none the less, be 25 on revenue account and the test of enduring benefit may break

down. It is not every advantage of enduring nature acquired by

an assessee that brings the case within the principle laid down

in this test. What is material to consider is the nature of the

advantage in a commercial sense and it is only where the

advantage is in the capital field that the expenditure would be

disallowable on an application of this test. If the advantage

consists merely facilitating the assessee's business to be

carried on more efficiently or more profitably while leaving the

fixed capital untouched, the expenditure would be on revenue

account, even though the advantage may endure for an

indefinite future. The test of enduring benefit is, therefore, not

a certain or conclusive test and it cannot be applied blindly and

mechanically without regard to the particular facts and

circumstances of a given case. 18. In the background of this law, when we look at the

facts of this case, the assessee has paid the said amount of

Rs.44.43 lakhs as onetime custody charges for 80,08,600

shares to the National Security Depository Limited. Without 26 such payment, after the Act came into force, the assessee shall

not make public or rights issue or other for sale of securities.

Therefore in law, an obligation was cast on the assessee

entering into an agreement with the depository for

dematerialization of securities already issued or proposed to be

issued to the public or existing shareholders. The advantage

which enures to the assessee on account of this depository

system is, lot of paper work, manual handling and postage,

affixation of stamps would be saved. Transfers are affected

through the mechanism provided by the depository system.

The expenditure has helped in reducing the cost of handling

physical share certificates. The dematerialization has obviated

the need for the Board of Directors to meet and approve the

share transfers. It has reduced the risk associated with the

physical share certificate, i.e., forgery and loss of certificates.

The process of getting the shares in demat form has benefited

the company in getting the periodic information, for example,

FII holding, promoter holding, holding that trigger acquisition

of substantial holding for purpose of application takeover code

of SEBI, etc., at a much faster pace with less administrative 27 hassles and with a lesser cost. The expenditure has been

incurred in the normal course of business. Thus the

dematerilization has helped significantly in reducing the

administrative costs. Even if certain benefits go to the

shareholders, consequently, the assessee has gained good will.

Therefore this expenses incurred squarely falls within the

phrase "laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the

purpose of business" and therefore it shall be deducted in

computing the income chargeable under the head of profits or

gain of business or profession. This is precisely what the

Tribunal has held. Therefore we do not find any infirmity in

the said order passed by the Tribunal. Therefore the said

substantial question of law is answered in favour of the

assessee and against the Revenue. SECOND SUBSTANTIAL QUESTION OF LAW 19. As is clear from the assessment order, the assessee

installed traffic signals at Bannerghata Circle at the cost of

Rs.7,37,720-00. However, in their balance sheet it was

included under the heading of donations of Rs.52,34,364-00 28 added back to Keonics Unit, the income from which is

exempted under Section 10A . It is the case of the assessee that

about 500 employees are working at their office at Bannerghata

Circle. Due to severe traffic congestion, its employees had to

wait for longer time to reach the office, resulting in delay in

completing the projects. Hence, the Traffic Signals have been

installed to ensure that employees of Bannerghata Circle would

reach office in time. 20. The stand of the Revenue is that regulating traffic

is the lookout of Traffic Police and Government and not that of

the assessee. If traffic signals were not there, in such busy

Circle, Traffic Police will be very much available to regulate the

traffic. The benefit flowing from such installation is very

remote. Therefore, it is in the nature of donation and therefore

if at all they have to claim exemption, they have to claim under Section 80G and not as expenditure under Section 37(1) of the

Act. 21. In somewhat similar situation, in the case of MYSORE KIRLOSKAR LTD., Vs. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME

TAX reported in 166 ITR 1987 pg.836, the Division Bench of

this Court distinguishing between the exemption under Section

80G and under Section 37(1) held as under: To be an allowance within section
 37(1) , barring the exceptions mentioned
 therein, "the money paid out or away must
 be paid out wholly and exclusively for the
 purpose of the business". The assessee can
 claim the whole of it for deduction in
 computing the income chargeable under the 30 head "Profits and gains of business or
profession". The basic requirements for invoking sections 37(1) and 80G , are, therefore, quite
different, but none the less, the two sections
are not mutually exclusive. If the contribution
by an assessee is in the form of donations of
the category specified under section 80G , but
if it could also be termed as an expenditure
of the category falling under section 37(1) ,
then the right of the assessee to claim the
whole of it as allowance under section 37(1) cannot be denied. But such money must be
"laid out or expended wholly and exclusively
for the purpose of business". The word
"wholly" refers to the quantum of expenditure
and the word "exclusive" refers to the move,
object or purpose of the expenditure. There is yet one more thing to be
remembered while applying section 37(1) . The expenditure claimed therein need not be
"necessarily" spent by the assessee. It might
be incurred "voluntarily" and without any
"necessity", but it must for promoting the
business. In other words, if the expenditure 31 has been incurred by the assessee
voluntarily, even without necessity, but if it
is for promoting the business, the deduction
would be permissible under section 37(1) of
the Act. In Season J. David and Co. P. Ltd. v. CIT [1979] 118 ITR 261, the Supreme Court
observed (at page 275 and 276) : Again, the words "for the purpose of
business" used in section 37(1) should not be
limited to the meaning of "earning profit
alone". Business expediency or commercial
expediency may require providing facilities
like school, hospital, etc., for the employees
of their children or for the children of the ex-
employees. The employees of today may
become the ex-employees tomorrow. Any
expenditure laid out or expended for their
benefit, if it satisfied the other requirements,
must be allowed as deduction under section
37(1) of the Act. It may also be stated, as
observed by the Supreme Court in the
aforesaid case, that the fact that somebody
other than the assessee is also benefited or
incidentally takes advantage of the provision
made, should not come in the way of the
expenditure being allowed as a deduction
under section 37(1) of the Act. But,
nevertheless, it must be an "expenditure" allowable as deduction under the Act. The question that, however, still
remains is whether the donation claimed by
the assessee for deduction can be said to be
an "expenditure" as contemplated under section 37(1) of the Act. "Expenditure" primarily denoted the ideal of "Spending" or
"paying out or away". It is something which
is gone irretrievably, but should not be in
respect of an unascertained liability of the
future. It must be an actual liability in
praesenti, as opposed to a contingent liability
of the future. Some of these principles have
been explained by the Supreme Court in Indian Molasses Co. (Private) Ltd. v. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 66, wherein it has been
observed (at pages 75 and 76) : 22. Yet another Division Bench of this Court in the

case of COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX & ANR Vs.

INFOSYS TECNOLOGIES LTD. , reported in (2012) 246 CTR

(Kar) 371, held as under: 23. In the above said judgment, reliance is placed on

the Division Bench of this Court in the case of COMMISSIONER

OF INCOME TAX Vs. M.N. SWAMINATHAN (DECD) BY LRs ,

reported in (2010) 47 DTR (KAR) 359, it was held as under: This is not a case where any payment is made to the police or

rowdies to keep them away from the business premises, which

payment is ex facie illegal and illegal payment cannot be an

allowable deduction under Section 37(1) of the Act. Secondly,

the judgment of the Division Bench in the aforesaid Mysore 37 Kirloskar Ltd case, was not brought to the notice of the

coordinate Bench which dealt with the case of the assessee.

More over, in the said judgment , the question was, a sum of

Rs.6.93 lakhs was contributed towards traffic regulation. It

was not an expenditure incurred by the assessee. It was not in

the nature of donation made to the police towards traffic

regulation. Therefore, in that context, it was held relying on

the judgment of Swaminathan 's case, it does not qualify as

deduction under Section 37 of the Act. 24. As is clear from the case of Mysore Kirloskar Ltd,

the expenditure claimed need not be necessarily spent by the

assessee. It might be incurred voluntarily and without any

necessity, but it must be for promoting the business. The fact

that somebody other than the assessee is also benefited by the

expenditure should not come in the way of an expenditure

being allowed by way of deduction under Section 37(1) of the

Act, if it satisfies otherwise the tests laid down by law.

Similarly, the words 'for the purpose of business' used in Section 37(1) of the Act, should not be limited to the meaning 38 of earning profit alone. Business expediency or commercial

expediency may require providing facilities like schools,

hospitals, etc., for the employees or their children or for the

children of the ex-employees. The employees of today may

become the ex-employees tomorrow. Any expenditure laid out

or expended for their benefit, if it satisfied the other

requirements, must be allowed as deduction under Section

37(1) of the Act. Expenditure primarily denotes the idea of

spending or paying out or away. It is something which is gone

irretrievably, but should not be in respect of an unascertained

liability of the future. Expenditure in this sense is equal to

disbursement which, to use a homely phrase means something

which comes out of the traders pocket. 25. Therefore in the instant case, admittedly the

assessee is having their establishment at Bannerghata Circle.

Nearly about 500 employees are working in the said Unit.

There was severe traffic congestion. Employees had to wait for

longer time to reach the office. It seriously affected the

business of the assessee, resulting in delay in completing the 39 project. In order to facilitate its employees to reach their

establishment safely and early, the assessee has installed

traffic signals at Bannerghata Circle. Though it is the

responsibility of the State and in particular, the Police

Department either to install the traffic signal or control the

traffic, the fact remains that in the absence of traffic signal or

traffic police being positioned at Circles, the traffic congestion

is a regular phenomenon. It seriously affects the free movement

of public and in the instant case, the employees of the

assessee. The assesee also has corporate social responsibility.

In this background, in order to discharge their corporate social

responsibility which also facilitates their business if the

employees were to reach the place early, they thought of

incurring the expenditure for installing the traffic signal at

Bannerghata Circle. This expenditure is laid out or expended

wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business. Therefore,

the said expenditure incurred is allowable as deduction under Section 37(1) of the Act. That is precisely what the Tribunal

has held. The said finding is in accordance with law and based

of legal evidence. Therefore no case for interference is made 40 out. Hence the said substantial question of law is answered in

favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.

THIRD SUBSTANTIAL QUESTION OF LAW 26. The donation of Rs.15 lakhs is paid out of Keonics

Unit, the profit of which is exempted under Section 10A of the

Act. While computing the profit of Keonics Unit, donation paid

is added back, as the same is not allowed to be deducted while

computing the profit under Section 10A of the Act. Thus the

disallowance in computing the income of Keonic Unit is per the

statutory provisions of the Act, the donation being not

considered as expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for

the purpose of business. Therefore it cannot be said that the

donation paid has been allowed as deduction under the Act.

The reason being the entire income incurred from the Keonics

was exempted from payment of tax under Section 10A of the

Act. There is no stipulation under Section 80G to the extent

that donation is to be paid only out of taxable income of the

year. Section 10A is an exemption Section whereas, Section

80G is deduction Section and therefore there would be no 41 double deduction in respect of the same item, even if a benefit

under both the Sections has been claimed. Section 80G(1) provides that in computing the total income of assessee, an

amount equal to whole of the sum or the case may be, 50% of

the amount paid by way of donation is to be allowed as

deduction. As per sub- section 5A of Section 80G where

deduction under this Section is claimed and allowed for any

assessment year in respect of any sum specified in sub-section

(2) the sum in respect of which deduction is so allowed shall

not qualify for deduction under any other provision for the

same or any other assessment year. 27. It is not in dispute that the assessee is entitled to

the benefit of deduction under Section 80G . He has not

claimed benefit twice. As the entire income from the Keonics

Unit is exempted from payment of tax, the debiting of donation

in the first instance and adding it back subsequently makes no

difference. The entire income was exempted. Therefore the

deduction under Section 80G is claimed from the total income

excluding the income of Kenoics Unit and in law, the assessee 42 is entitled to the said benefit. The disallowance by the lower

authority on the ground of double benefit, on the face of it is

incorrect and the Tribunal rightly interfered with the said order

and allowed the said deduction. The said order is legal and

valid and do not call for any interference. Therefore the said

substantial question of law is answered in favour of the

assessee and against the Revenue. FOURTH SUBSTANTIAL QUESTION OF LAW 28. The Tribunal after referring to various judgments

held that the provision for warranty cannot be treated as

contingent liability, since the liability is an accrued liability and

the estimate is on sound accounting principle, disallowance of

Rs.46,77,452-00 was held to be incorrect and it was deleted.

As the law stands today, as declared by the Apex Court in the

case of ROTORK CONTROLS INDIA (P) LTD Vs.

COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX reported in (2009) 314 ITR

62, if a provision for warranty is made on the basis of a sound 43 accounting principle, on scientific basis, the said amount is

allowable as deduction. 29. In the instant case, when particulars are sought

for by the Assessing Authority to state what is the amount

actually debited in provision account for the assessment year

1997-98 and 98-99 towards post sales customer support, the

assessee stated that such expenditure gets accounted under

normal head and there is no specific debit to warranty

provision in any year. In the subsequent year, the provision is

written back on the first day of the accounting year and actual

expenses incurred towards post sales customer support are

debited to respective heads. The assessee states that it is not

possible to give the details called for. This aspect has been

completely missed by the Tribunal. It proceeds on the

assumption that figures given for warranty is based on sound

accounting principle. In fact, in the aforesaid judgment of the

Apex Court before the assessee could be granted the benefit, he

has to establish: (a) an enterprise has a present obligation as a

result of a past event, (b) it is probable that an outflow of 44 resources will be required to settle the obligation and (c) a

reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.

If these conditions are not met, no provision can be recognized.

For determining an appropriate historical trend, it is important

that the company has a proper accounting system for

capturing the relationship between the nature of the sales, the

warranty provisions made and the actual expenses incurred

against it subsequently. Thus, the decision on the warranty

provision should be based on past experience of the company.

A detailed assessment of the warranty provisioning policy is

required particularly if the experience suggests that warranty

provisions are generally reversed if they remained unutilized at

the end of the period prescribed in the warranty. Therefore the

company should scrutinize the historical trend of warranty

provisions made and the actual expenses incurred against it.

On this basis a sensible estimate should be made. The

warranty provisions for the products should be based on the

estimate at year end of future warranty expenses. Such

estimates needs reassessment every year. As one reaches close

to the end of the warranty period, the probability that the 45 warranty expenses will be incurred is considerably reduced and

that should be reflected in the estimation amount. 30. This exercise has not been done. In fact, the

assessee has not maintained separate account. He is not able

to state what is the total amount spent towards this post sale

expenses. In that view of the matter, the finding recorded by

the Tribunal cannot be sustained. The proper course would be

to set aside the said finding and remand the matter back to the

Assessing Authority, giving an opportunity to the assessee to

give the information sought for by the Department keeping in

mind the law laid down by the Apex Court. On such

information being given, the Assessing Authority shall pass

appropriate orders on the basis of such information to be

furnished by the assessee. 31. In so far as the fifth substantial question of law is

concerned, i.e., deduction under Section 80HHE in a sum of

Rs.31,93,41,102-00, the Tribunal granted relief to the assessee

in view of its earlier order dated 31.03.2005. It is not in 46 dispute that the said order dated 31.03.2005 passed by the

Tribunal has been set aside on the said issue and the matter is

again remanded back to the Assessing Authority for fresh

assessment in accordance with law. Following the said

judgment dated 13.02.2013 in ITA No.2972/05, we set aside

the said finding recorded by the Tribunal and remand the

matter back to the Assessing Authority for fresh consideration

and in accordance with law. 32. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, we pass the

following order: (i) Appeal is allowed in part. (ii) On the question of provision for warranty and

 deduction under Section 80HHE is concerned, the

 finding recorded by the Tribunal is set aside and the

 matter is remanded to the assessing authority for

 fresh consideration. (iii) In all other respects the order of the Tribunal is

 affirmed. Parties to bear their own costs. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/- JUDGE

ckl/ksp/-