light of the second part of Section 107 of the Act, which requires
that lease for a term exceeding one year can only be made by
way of a registered instrument. 19.It is also a well settled position of law that in the absence of a
registered instrument, the courts are not precluded from
determining the factum of tenancy from the other evidence on
record as well as the conduct of the parties. A three Judge bench
of this Court in the case of Anthony v. KC Ittoop & Sons [4], held as
under: In respectful consideration of the cited decisions, I fully agree with

the contention of Mr. Ghosh that in a suit for recovery of possession from

tenant, it is not open for the tenant to even question the title of the

landlord and the suit of this nature is quite maintainable after termination

of tenancy under Section 106 T.P. Act because in case of unregistered

lease agreement of immovable property, Section 106 T.P. Act is applicable

as the tenancy of the defendant is deemed to be a lease from month to

month. Thus, the issue no. 3 is decided in favour of the plaintiff.

Issue nos.1 and 5 - Both issues are taken up together for the sake of

convenience in discussion and for brevity. This fact cannot be lost sight of that the defendant company has

undergone liquidation as submitted by Mr. Aritra Basu appearing for the

liquidator appointed in the proceeding of liquidation. It is submitted that

suit is not maintainable in law and in fact in the circumstances of the 13 present case. It is argued that pursuant to an order dated 26th October,

2017 passed by Hon'ble National Company Law Tribunal, Kolkata the

defendant went into liquidation in Company Petition (IB) No. 213/KB/2017

filed under Section 10 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (in short

Code). In the said proceeding, an order for liquidation under Section 33 of

the Code was passed seeking recommendation for Insolvency and

Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) name of any Resolution Professional for

appointment as liquidator. Ms. Mamta Binani was appointed as liquidator. It

is argued that there was an agreement on 8th February, 1985 for execution

of the lease deed in respect of the suit property. The plaintiff has relied on

this agreement and derived benefit. Hence, the plaintiff cannot resile from

the terms of this document and invited my attention to Exhibit-D, Exhibit-E

and Exhibit-F to argue that plaintiff and the defendant followed the terms

and conditions as recorded in the letter dated 8th February, 1985 as the

defendant has admittedly tendered rents in terms of the said agreement.

And the same was received by the plaintiff and it goes to show that terms

and conditions were accepted by the plaintiff so the plaintiff cannot be

allowed to resile from the said terms and conditions and the plaintiff should

not be allowed to approbate and reprobate at the same time. To support his

contention Mr. Basu relied on a decision in case of Shyam Telelink

Limited Now Sistema Shyam Teleservices Limited Vs. Union of India reported in (2010) 10 Supreme Court Cases 165 wherein it has been

observed thus-- A reference to a decision in case of State of Punjab And Others

Vs. Dhanjit Singh Sandhu reported in (2014) 15 Supreme Court

Cases 144 has also been made to the observation at page 20 and 22 to

argue that the doctrine of approbate and reprobate is only a species of

estoppel, it implies only to the conduct of parties and to argue that by the

conduct of the party was to go for execution and registration of lease for

thirty years initially renewable for further period of twenty-one years to

be registered in due course as per term 5 of agreement of tenancy dated 15 8th February, 1985 Exhibit-C. Mr. Basu further pointed out that draft

lease was forwarded to the plaintiff for approval but the same was not

acted upon on the ground that the same was not in consonance with the

agreement dated 8th February, 1985 and that plaintiff was always

agreeable to execute a lease provided the same is in terms of the said

agreement and that there were correspondences between the parties for

execution of lease deed in favour of the defendants for a period of thirty

years for which period the defendant was inducted as a monthly tenant

as such a new agreement between the parties fructified and the earlier

agreement ceased to have effect. As I have discussed in the forgoing paragraphs that the lease draft

was not settled by and between the parties and there is no registered

lease deed in favour of the defendant. Therefore, the defendant cannot

claim specific performance of agreement though in a reply to notice dated

October 1, 2009 the defendant for the first time after long time had

raised a demand for specific performance. It is well settled that a tenant

cannot dispute the title of the landlord as per Section 116 A of the

Evidence Act, 1872 (See: Kamaljit Singh Vs. Sarabjit Singh (2014) 16

SCC 472 paras 14 -16). In rebuttal, Mr. Basu further placed reliance in case of R.

Kanthimathi And Another Vs. Beatrice Xavier (Mrs ) reported in

(2000) 9 Supreme Court Cases 339 wherein it has been held that any

jural relationship between two persons could be created through 16 agreement and similarly could be changed through agreement subject to

the limitations under the law. Earlier when the appellants were inducted

into tenancy it only means both agreed that their relationship was to be

that of landlord and tenant. Later when the landlord decided to sell this

property to the tenant and the tenant agreed by entering into agreement,

they by their positive act changed their relationships as purchaser and

seller. When the seller-landlord accepts the sum he actually acts under

this agreement. This acceptance preceded by agreement of sale changes

their relationship. This is what they intended. Once accepting such a

change, their relationship of landlord-tenant ceases. I have gone through the decision cited on behalf of the defendant

through liquidator which in my considered opinion is not well nigh within

the facts and circumstances of the instant case as in this case lease draft

was not accepted by either parties and no step taken on behalf of the

defendant for execution and registration of the lease. Therefore, the

relationship between the plaintiff and the defendant cannot be stated to

be that of a lesser and lessee. On the contrary, it is argued on behalf of the plaintiff that the

defendant filed a suit being C.S. No. 2 of 2011 which is not maintainable

in as much as the defendant was not ready and willing to continue the

hearing of the said suit and the same was directed to be delisted by an

order dated June 30, 2017 passed by the Hon'ble Justice Sahidullah

Munshi. So, the defendant having failed to prove its readiness and 17 willingness to continue with the suit claiming for a specific performance

of an agreement vide letter dated 8th February, 1985, the defendant is not

entitled to claim any equitable relief under Specific Relief Act (see: I.S.

Sikandar (Dead) By LRS Vs. K. Subramani & Ors. (2013) 15 SCC 27). Mr. Basu argued on behalf of the liquidator that the suit property is

in possession of the liquidator. So, liquidator is entitled to defend the

suits, prosecution, legal proceedings, civil or criminal in the name of and

on behalf of the Corporate Debtor i.e. the defendant herein. Despite the

order dated 26th October, 2017 being passed by the Hon'ble NCLT,

Kolkata Bench, no steps were taken by the plaintiff to implead the

liquidator in the present suit. It is further argued that since there is no

pleading and issues framed in the present suit against the liquidator a

decree cannot be passed against the liquidator and the judgment or the

decree cannot be passed dehors the issues framed in the suit and the

decree would be without jurisdiction and has relied on decision in cases

of Shivaji Balaram Haibatti Vs. Avinash Maruthi Pawar , reported at

2018 (11) SCC 652, paras 24 to 26; Union of India Vs. E.I.D. Parry

(India) Limited , reported at 2000 (2) SCC 223, para 4; Trojan & Co.

Ltd. Vs. Rm. N.N. Nagappa Chettiar , reported at AIR 1953 SC 235,

para 22. This Court is not entertaining the suit against the liquidator

who is not a party to the suit. So, question of passing decree against the

liquidator does not arise. It is pertinent to take judicial notice of an order

dated September 11, 2017 passed in G.A. 2791 of 2017 wherein the 18 decision in case of M/s Innovative Industries Ltd. Vs. ICICI Bank &

Anr. reported in AIR 2017 SC 1025 has been relied upon which held

that the moment initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process

takes place a moratorium is announced by the adjudicating authority

vide Sections 13 and 14 of the Code by which institution of suit and

pending proceeding etc. cannot be proceeded with. This continues until

the approval of a resolution plan under Section 31 of the said Code. Mr. Ghosh submitted that during pendency of the suit and after

completion of evidence, insolvency proceeding was initiated against the

defendants behind the back of the plaintiff and an order by National

Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Kolkata Bench dated May 1, 2017 was

disclosed before this Hon'ble Court by the Advocate of the defendant to

the effect that there was a moratorium for six months. As such, the

hearing of the suit was adjourned. The moratorium period expired and

there was no further extension. It is also pertinent to note that the

liquidator appointed in the NCLT proceeding also appeared before this

Hon'ble Court through Advocate Ms. Priyanka Tibrewal, as recorded in

the order dated June 7, 2018 and purported to contest the suit. It is

further submitted that the company liquidation has no right over

property and there cannot be any legal impediment in passing a decree

for recovery of possession in favour of the plaintiff. The liquidator has

stepped into the shoes of the tenant/defendant and it is argued that

status of the plaintiff is that of a creditor of a company in liquidation, 19 even if it is in possession of an asset of a third party. It is argued on

behalf of the liquidator that the liquidator is not obliged to pay any rent

to the plaintiff under the Code. Such contention of the liquidator on

behalf of the defendant is baseless and without any legal basis for the

reasons firstly that Section 35 of the Code provides for power and duties

of liquidator empowering the liquidator to take into custody and control,

only the assets, property, affects and actionable claims of the corporate

debtor. The liquidator is only entitled to protect the estate and property of

the corporate debtor and secondly, under Section 36 (1) of the said Code

liquidator has to form an estate of assets mentioned under Sub- Section 3 of Section 36 of the Code. Section 36 (4) of the said Code specifically

provides that asset owned by a third party which are in possession of a

corporate debtor shall not for part of the liquidation estate. Thus, it is clear that the liquidator has fiduciary interest but has

not direct interest because the right of tenancy cannot be claimed as

assets or property affects and actionable claim of the corporate

debtor/defendant of the suit. The provision of Section 12 of the Code

provides for time limit for completion of insolvency resolution process

which enshrines that corporate insolvency resolution process must be

completed within a period of one hundred eighty days from the date of

admission of the application to initiate such process with further

extension of ninety days once which can be extended, if an adjudicating

authority is satisfied that the subject matter of the case is such that 20 corporate insolvency resolution process cannot be completed within one

hundred eighty days. It is expected that within the time frame the

insolvency proceeding would be completed. It is submitted that time has

not been extended and the moratorium announced by the adjudicating

authority as per Sections 13 and 14 of the Code by which institution of

suits and pending proceedings etc. cannot be proceeded which continues

until the approval of a resolution plan under Section 31 of the said Code.

With the passage of time the resolution process must have been

completed now in absence of any evidence on contrary placed on record.

The provision of Section 36(3)(a) and Section 36(4) cannot be overlooked

by which provision the liquidator hands are tied. Lastly, Mr. Basu submitted that the suit is not maintainable as the

suit has been filed by a person who is not authorised under law to

deposed and invites my attention to answer to question 129 of Arun

Kumar Sharma who has deposed on behalf of the plaintiff company as

the constitution power of attorney holder and he has signed the plaint. It

is pointed out that admittedly Mr. Sharma has been working in the Sister

concern for the last thirty years as Manager and so he is not competent

to institute suit on behalf of the plaintiff. Mr Basu has referred to a

decision in case of Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani And Another Vs. Indusind

Bank Ltd And Others reported in (2005) 2 Supreme Court Cases 217

wherein it has been observed thus-- In the present case as I have discussed above that Mr. Sharma

who filed the suit on behalf of the company is a Manager of the Sister

Concern of the plaintiff working for thirty years and in conversant with

the facts and circumstances of the case and was authorised by

execution of power of attorney of the plaintiff Exhibit-A pursuant to the

resolution of the plaintiff company to that effect vide Exhibit-B.

 Therefore, I am unable to agree with the Mr. Basu learned

Advocate for the liquidator who is no way a party to the suit and should

not step into the shoes of the defendant. The duty of the liquidator

under the Code provides for taking possession of the assets and affects

an actionable claim of the corporate debtors. The right of tenancy in

respect of the suit premises held by the corporate debtor/defendant

cannot form estate of assets for the purpose of taking control and

possession of the suit premises by the liquidator. Yet a unreported decision dated 24.04.2019 in case of Amiaya

Kanti Das And Ors. Vs. Sefalika Ash in GA No. 966 of 2019, APO No.

60 of 2019 and T.S. No. 25 of 2016 is referred to argue that whole of

the evidence of Mr. Sharma has to be expunged being not a true power

of attorney holder. I have gone through the decision which is not

applicable in the given facts of the case. In the context of the above discussion in the forgoing paragraph I

hold that the suit is maintainable in law and in fact as the plaintiff has

cause of action for the suit and there was an agreement for tenancy

dated 8th February, 1985 between the parties with a term no. 5 for

execution and registration of a lease deed in respect of the suit

premises in favour of the defendant but the defendant neglected to

perform his part as per the agreement. Thus the above issues are

decided. Issue nos. 6 and 7 both the issues are decided in the affirmative

in the context of what has been discussed and held in the forgoing

issues. Therefore, the plaintiff is entitled to a decree for recovery of

possession and for mesne profits as prayed in the plaint. In the result

suit succeeds. Consequently, the suit is decreed with cost on contest by

the liquidator appointed for the corporate debtor/defendant. The plaintiff do get a decree for recovery of vacant, peaceful

possession of the suit premises, morefully described in schedule E. 23 The defendant is directed to quit, vacate and deliver up the suit

premises peacefully unto the plaintiff within two months from the date

of the decree in default the plaintiff shall be entitled to put the decree

into execution through Court. The plaintiff is also entitled to a decree for a sum of Rs.

1,33,37,923/- for mense profits as pleaded in paragraph 22 together

with interest @ 9% and further mesne profits to be determined in a

separate proceeding on enquiry. (SHIVAKANT PRASAD, J.)