1. The dispute in the present appeal is between the two sons of Late
Sh.Mohinder Singh Verma. 2. The genealogy tree of family of Late Sh.Mohinder Singh Verma is
as under:- in-law (wife of his son J.P.S.Verma) in respect of ground floor of
property bearing Municipal No.A-2/163, Safdarjung Enclave, New Delhi
(hereinafter referred to as the „Suit Property‟). 4. Needless to state, the deceased was the plaintiff and his son J.P.S.
Verma and daughter-in-law Om Wati Verma were the defendants in the
suit. Declaration sought was that registered Gift Deed dated June 10,
1997 executed by the plaintiff in favor of his daughter-in-law Om Wati
i.e. defendant No.2 in respect of suit property be declared null and void.
Permanent injunction sought was that the defendants be permanently
restrained from claiming any right, title or interest in the suit property. In
addition thereto, the plaintiff also sought possession of the suit property
from the defendants. 5. In our decision we shall be referring to the parties by their
nomenclature in the suit. 6. The case set up by the deceased plaintiff in the plaint filed by him
has been broadly/succinctly noted by the Single Judge in the impugned
judgment in following terms:- FIR No.488/2004 of offences under Section 341 read with Section 34 of IPC was registered against the defendants; (vii) that the Gift Deed is nullity in the eyes of law because in
 pith and substance the said Gift Deed was made in favor of
 Mr.Vikas Verma but the same has not been accepted by him
 and without which acceptance the Gift Deed is null and void; (viii) that the defendants have never acted upon the Gift Deed
 as the house continues to be mutated in the name of the plaintiff
 who has been paying House Tax thereon; the electricity and
 water connections of the house also continue to be in the name
 of the plaintiff who has been paying bills thereof; (ix) that the Gift Deed was conditional with the plaintiff
 having the absolute right to use the front room throughout his
 life and the defendants giving the said ground floor to their son
 Mr. Vikas Verma after his marriage and is liable to be set aside
 on this ground also; (x) that the defendants had committed breach of the
 conditions on which the Gift Deed was made and the Gift Deed
 is liable to be set aside on this ground also; and, (xi) that the plaintiff had revoked the Gift Deed vide notice
 dated 1st June, 2007." (Emphasis Supplied) 7. The defence set up by the defendants in the written statement filed
by them has been broadly/succinctly noted by the Single Judge in the
impugned judgment in following terms:- 8. In the replication filed, the deceased plaintiff essentially stating
therein that FIR No.483/2004 got registered by the plaintiff against the
defendants was quashed by this Hon‟ble Court on account of a
concession made by the plaintiff that the FIR in question be quashed,
which concession was made by the plaintiff out of his concern for the
defendants. 9. From the afore-noted conspectus of facts, it is apparent that the
controversy in the present case revolves around the Gift Deed dated June
10, 1997 executed by the deceased plaintiff in favor of defendant No.2
and the same reads as under:- 2/163, Safdar Jang Enclave, New Delhi measuring 125 sq.
 yards. 2. That the Donor has delivered the physical possession of
 above mentioned ground floor portion of property No. A-2/163,
 Safdar Jang Enclave, New Delhi to the Donee on the spot, the
 Donee hereby acknowledge having taken possession of the same
 from the Donor. 3. That the gift is absolute and irrevocable, the Donor shall
 have no right or title over the gifted property and ceased to have
 any right over the ground floor portion which he has gifted to
 Donee. 4. That the Donee shall be at liberty to enjoy this gifted
 property on her own will and to deal with the same independently.
 4-A. With the condition that Donor will reside in front (Drawing)
 room throughout his life and Donee will give the house to her son
 Vikas Verma after his marriage. 5. That the Donor, his heirs, besides the Donee have left no
 claim, interest or title in the donated property to the Donee, and
 Donee has become the actual owner of the said donated property. 6. That the Donee shall get mutated the above mentioned
 donated property in the concerned Department on the basis of this
 Gift Deed in the name of Donee. 7. That all the costs of mutation and registration of the Gift
 Deed shall be borne and paid by the Donor." (Emphasis Supplied) 10. During the pendency of suit, the plaintiff expired. Sehdav Verma,
the other son of plaintiff, filed an application under Order XXII Rule 3
CPC praying therein that he i.e. Sehdav Verma be substituted in the place
of plaintiff in the suit. Substitution was sought by Sehdav Verma on the RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 7 of 31 basis that during his lifetime the plaintiff had executed the Will dated 25
June, 2007 bequeathing the suit property in his favor. 11. Vide order dated March 19, 2013 the Single Judge allowed the
application under Order XXII Rule 3 CPC filed by Sehdav Verma and
substituted Sehdav Verma in place of plaintiff in the suit without
prejudice to the challenge set up by the defendants to the Will dated June
25, 2007 allegedly executed by the deceased. 12. The defendants had filed an application under Order VII Rule 11
CPC seeking rejection of plaint on the ground that suit is time-barred for
the reason as per averments contained in the plaint the cause of action
firstly accrued on September 27, 2003 when the defendants allegedly
prevented the plaintiff from entering his room in the suit property but the
suit was filed on July 04, 2007 i.e. more than three years after the expiry
of accrual of cause of action. 13. Sehdav Singh (legal representative of plaintiff) filed an application
under Order XII Rule 6 CPC seeking decree on admission essentially on
the ground that the defendants have admitted in their written statement
that their son Vikas Verma has not accepted the gift and as a result
thereof Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997 is nullity in the eyes of law
inasmuch as in pith and substance the said Gift Deed was made in favor
of Mr.Vikas Verma. 14. Both the afore-noted applications (application under Order VII
Rule 11 CPC filed by the defendants and application under Order XII
Rule 6 CPC filed by the plaintiff) were listed before Single Judge on
March 12, 2014, on which date following order was passed:- 15. Vide impugned judgment and decree dated March 21, 2014 the
learned Single Judge has dismissed the suit. 16. Briefly stated the reasons given by the learned Single Judge are as
under:- In fact, had the gift been meant for Mr.Vikas Verma the occasion for
stipulating in the Gift Deed that the defendant No.2 will give the suit
property to Vikas Verma after his marriage would not have arisen. h) Even if it were to be held that the gift in favor of defendant No.2
was conditional to the defendant No.2 giving the suit property to her son
after his marriage, there had been no breach of the said condition on the
dates of purported revocation of the gift or institution of the suit inasmuch
as son of defendant No.2 was not married on said dates. i) The condition contained in clause 4-A of the Gift Deed dated June
10, 1997 that defendant No.2 shall give the house to her son Vikas Verma
after his marriage is of no avail to the plaintiff in view of prescription
contained in Section 11 of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 that where on a
transfer of property, an interest therein is created absolutely in favor of
transferee, but the terms of the transfer direct that such interest shall be
applied or enjoyed by the transferee in a particular manner, the transferee
is entitled to receive and dispose of such interest as if there was no such
direction. j) Non mutation of the name of the transferee (defendant No.2) in the
Municipal records for the purpose of House Tax cannot divest transferee
(defendant No.2) of the title which otherwise stands transferred and
vested in the transferee. It is settled position in law that mutation entries
do not confer or divest a title. Likewise, payments of House Tax and
electricity and water charges by the plaintiff in respect of suit property, if
any, even after execution of Gift Deed are of no avail to the plaintiff for
such payments do not confer or divest title. In this view of the matter, no RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 12 of 31 useful purpose would be served in setting the suit on trial on the aspect of
payments of House Tax and electricity and water charges by the deceased
plaintiff in respect of the suit property even after execution of Gift Deed
for the reason the same even if proved would not negate the gift. The
Courts are not to mechanically set such suits to trial whose outcome is not
dependent upon any factual adjudication. k) Even if Clauses 2, 3 and 4 of the Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997
which prescribe that deceased plaintiff had delivered the physical
possession of the suit property to defendant No.2 and that the defendant
No.2 had accepted the same; gift made by the plaintiff is absolute and
irrevocable and plaintiff is left with no right or title over the gifted
property and defendant No.2 shall be at liberty to enjoy the gifted
property and to deal with the same independently are held to be
inconsistent/repugnant to clause 4-A of the deed prescribing that
defendant No.2 shall reside in the front drawing room of the suit property
throughout his lifetime they i.e. clauses 2, 3 and 4 shall prevail over
clause 4-A in view of settled legal position that in the event of
inconsistency between two clauses in a deed, earlier/first of the two
inconsistent clause shall prevail. Alternatively, even if rule of harmonious
construction were to be applied, the only inference/conclusion which
would emerge is that the residence of Donor (deceased plaintiff) in the
front drawing room of the suit property would be as licensee or with the
permission of Donee (defendant No.2), with the Donee (defendant No.2)
having jural and physical possession of the said front drawing room given
to her under the Gift Deed and the Donor (deceased plaintiff) having
merely a right of residence in lifetime therein. Such right of residence of
the Donor (deceased plaintiff) in the suit property cannot be in negation RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 13 of 31 of the essential requirement of delivery of possession of gifted property
under Section 123 of Transfer of Property Act. l) The argument advanced by the deceased plaintiff that Donor i.e.
the deceased plaintiff had not delivered the possession of suit property to
Donee i.e. defendant No.2 and thus gift of suit property made to
defendant No.2 was incomplete is misconceived for the reason the
delivery of possession of gifted property is not necessary to complete the
gift of an immovable property. m) None of the conditions/circumstances prescribed in Section 126 of
Transfer of Property Act for suspension/revocation of a gift are fulfilled
in the present case. It is neither the case of the deceased plaintiff that the
Donor (deceased plaintiff) and Donee (defendant No.2) had agreed that
on the happening of any specified event the Donor (deceased plaintiff)
may revoke the gift nor any such term is found in the Gift Deed. 17. Aggrieved by the aforesaid, Sehdav Verma (legal representative of
deceased plaintiff) has filed the present appeal under Section 96 of Code
of Civil Procedure. 18. Arguing the appeal learned counsel for Sehdav Verma, appellant
(legal representative of deceased plaintiff) made three broad submissions
as under:- 19. Gift inter vivos is gratuitous transfer of ownership between two
living persons and is transfer of property within the meaning of Section 5 RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 15 of 31 of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 . Section 122 of Transfer of Property
Act, 1882 defines „Gift‟ as under"- 20. The essentials of a valid Gift can be enumerated as under:- 21. Section 123 of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 dealing with making
of a Gift reads as under:- 22. Section 126 of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 dealing with
suspension/revocation of a Gift reads as under:- 23. The deceased plaintiff has admitted the execution of Gift Deed
dated June 10, 1997 in respect of suit property in favor of defendant No.2.
A meaningful reading of the plaint/written submissions filed by deceased
plaintiff/appellant goes to show that essentially the deceased plaintiff
sought to revoke the gift of suit property made by him in favor of
defendant No.2 on following two counts:- 24. A gift may be revoked for coercion, fraud, misrepresentation,
undue influence in the same way as a contract may be rescinded. 25. Section 17 of the Contract Act defines „Fraud‟ as an inducement by
a party to the contract by making a suggestion as a fact which is not true
or by active concealment of a fact or by making a promise without any
intention of performing it or by any other act intended to deceive, to the
other party. 26. Under Section 16 of the Contract Act to be said to be induced by
„undue influence‟, the relations subsisting between the parties are to be
such that one of the parties was in a position to dominate the will of the
other and uses that position to obtain an unfair advantage of the other. 27. Rules of pleadings stand crystallized under various rules of Order
VI of Code of Civil Procedure . Rule 2 of Order VI reads as under:- 28. Highlighting that the mandate of the Rule is that the pleadings must
contain a statement in the concise form of the material facts on which the
party pleading relies for its claim or defence, it needs however be noted
that Rule 4 of the same Order further expands by requiring particulars to
be given where necessary. Rule 4 of Order VI reads as under:- 29. In a leading pronouncement on the subject of pleadings, being the
decision reported as 2011 ( 6) SCALE 677 Ramrameshwari Devi & Ors.
vs. Nirmala Devi & Ors , highlighting how frivolous litigations are being
instituted and how these frivolous litigations are choking the stream of
justice, with reference to importance of pleadings, in sub-para A of para
52 of the decision, the Supreme Court observed as under:- 30. In the decision reported as 1987 ( 2) SCC 555 Ram Sarup Gupta
(Dead) by LRs vs. Bishun Narain Inter College & Ors , highlighting the
object and purpose of pleadings, in para 6, the Supreme Court observed
as under:- 31. With reference to the decisions reported as 1974 ( 6) BLR 368
Pandu Dhongi Yerudkar vs. Ananda Krishna Patil & Anr. and AIR 1982
Bom 491 M/s Nilesh Construction Company & Anr vs. Mrs. Gangubai &
Ors , in the decision reported as AIR 1999 SC 1464 D.M. Deshpande &
Ors vs. Janardhan Kashinath Kadam & Ors , in paras 9 and 11, the
Supreme Court highlighted that a vague plea does not justify an issue
being framed and further, where no material in support of a plea has been
set up anywhere in any form, the Court would be justified in not settling
an issue requiring the parties to traverse the torturous path of a trial. In
said case, the Supreme Court observed qua claim for tenancy that in the
absence of a concise statement of material facts relating to the tenancy,
the mere raising of a plea of tenancy is not enough for the purpose of
raising an issue. The Court cautioned against a pedantic approach to the
problem and directed that Courts must ascertain the substance of the
pleading and not the form, in order to determine the same. It was
observed that pertaining to a claim of tenancy, the exact nature of the RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 20 of 31 right which is claimed is to be set-forth and no issue pertaining to
existence of tenancy could be framed on a vague plea. 32. In the decision reported as 2012 (6) SCALE 340 A. Shanmugam vs.
Ariya Kshatriya Rajakula Vamsathu Madalaya Nandhavana Paripalanai
Sangam it was held as under:- 33. In the decision reported as 2012 ( 5) SCC 370 Maria Margarida
Sequeria Fernandes vs. Erasmo Jack de Sequeria the Supreme Court held
as under:- (Emphasis Supplied) 34. In the instant case, no particulars regarding (alleged) fraud/undue
influence played/exercised by the defendants have been given in the RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 21 of 31 plaint. The plaint is „conspicuously‟ silent regarding the nature of
(alleged) fraud/undue influence played/exercised by the defendants. The
plaint is silent as to what and when were the representations made by the
defendants which led the deceased plaintiff to execute the Gift Deed
dated June 10, 1997 and which were ultimately found to be false.
Likewise, there is no averment in the plaint that the defendants or any of
them were in a position to dominate the will of the deceased plaintiff and
used that position to obtain an unfair advantage over the deceased
plaintiff. 35. The plaint filed by the deceased plaintiff lacks in material
particulars and it has to be held that the so-called pleadings relating to
fraud/undue influence being played/exercised by the defendants are no
pleadings in the eyes of law. From the afore-noted decisions, it can be
safely culled out that a vague plea, sans the particulars thereof, would be
no plea in the eyes of law and no issue can be settled between the parties
regarding fraud/undue influence being played/exercised by the
defendants. 36. This takes us to the question that assuming that the defendants
committed breach of condition contained in clause 4-A of Gift Deed
dated June 10, 1997 by preventing the deceased plaintiff to reside in the
front (drawing) room of the suit property during his lifetime would that
be sufficient to revoke the Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997. 37. In order to deal with the said question, let us revisit clause 4-A of
Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997:- 38. In the decision reported as AIR 1962 Ori 130 Tila Bewa vs.
Mana Bewa the law relating to revocation of gift upon breach of
condition of gift was succinctly stated in following terms:- On the aspect of such pious wishes, the legal position is that
 where a gift deed, after the operative portion of the deed, RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 23 of 31 provided that the donee was to render services to the donor and
 to meet the donor's funeral expenses, such directions are only
 pious wishes and do not give any right to the donor to revoke
 the gift if the conditions are not observed; when, therefore,
 there is an out and out transfer, followed by a direction to the
 donee to maintain the donor, the latter direction is only a pious
 wish; on the other hand if the gift deed starts with a statement
 that it is made with the object of providing for maintenance of
 the donor, and this statement is followed by the operative
 clause,--there can be no doubt that the gift is subject ,to the
 liability to maintain the donor. 7. This leads me to the construction of the deed of gift, in the
 present case, in the light of the legal position as stated above.
 On a plain reading of the document, it is clear that the
 defendant donor makes a complete gift of the suit lands in the
 operative portion of the document, making the plaintiff full
 owner in possession from the date thereof "Aja dina tharu
 sampuma malik dakhalkar karai'' (in vernacular); it is after
 making the plaintiff full owner, in respect of the suit lands, that
 the defendant expresses her pious wish later on in the document
 to the effect that the plaintiff would render to the defendant
 "Sebadharma and Bharan Poshan," that is to say, to render to
 the defendant services and maintain her during her lifetime and
 she further expressed a wish that after her death the plaintiff
 would perform her funeral rites; then the document ends, by
 providing that the defendant or her heirs will not have. In any
 way any right to the suit lands and if they claim any right then
 on the strength of this document such claim will be invalid in
 law courts; the only condition attached to the gift as stated in
 the last sentence is that the plaintiff will not be able to sell or
 mortgage without the consent of her husband (plaintiff's
 husband), and that the plaintiff will not alienate the suit lands
 by sale or mortgage etc. during the lifetime of the defendant,
 and that if she does so, it will be invalid; thus, reading the
 document as a whole, it is clear that it was an out and out gift,
 and that the directions as to her maintenance and Sebadharma
 are only pious wishes expressed by the defendant in the
 document. 9. In support of his proposition, that the deed of gift is
 revocable, the learned counsel for the defendant respondent
 relied on a decision of the Allahabad High Court in Balbhadar
 Singh v. Lakshmi Bai , holding that under Hindu Law if a person
 makes a gift to another in expectation that the donee will do
 more work in consideration of the gift, it follows that if the
 donee failed to do that which it has conditioned he should do,
 the gift is revocable. The learned counsel's point is that in order
 that the defendant may get Sebadharma (services) from the
 plaintiff she (plaintiff) has to remain in the house; but the
 plaintiff having remarried, she cannot perform the Sebadharma
 of the defendant because the plaintiff has left the house of the
 defendant and remarried. In my opinion, this argument cannot
 stand, in view of the legal position as stated above. With regard
 to the decision, relied on by the learned counsel, it appears that
 the Allahabad High Court observed that it was arguable that in
 the. absence of an express power of revocation for failure of the
 condition the gift cannot be impugned or revoked. Therefore,
 the Allahabad decision,--which was decided on the particular
 facts of the case,--does not support the defendant's contention.
 In the present case, as is clear from the document itself, there is
 no agreement that on failure on the part of the plaintiff to
 perform any of the conditions, namely, Sebadharma etc. the gift
 will be invalid. In other words, there must be a defeasance or
 default clause in order to make the gift revocable; if there was
 a condition that on failure to perform any of the conditions the
 gift will be void, then certainly the gift could have been
 revoked; the document "does not make any provision to that
 effect. Here, the defendant cancelled the gift,--as appears from
 the deed of cancellation,--in apprehension that the plaintiff
 might waste the property by transfer; it is not the defendant's
 case that, by reason of the plaintiff's having failed to perform
 her Sebadharma etc. that she revoked the deed of gift.
 (Emphasis Supplied) 39. The decision reported as AIR 2003 HP 107 Tokha vs. Smt. Biru &
Ors is also an authority on the point of revocation of gift on breach of
condition attached to gift. The relevant observations made in said
decision are being noted herein under:- 40. To put it pithily, the position regarding revocation of gift upon
breach of condition of gift is this: „there must be a defeasance or default
clause in order to make the gift revocable; if there was a condition that
on failure to perform any of the conditions the gift will be void, then
certainly the gift could have been revoked; but the gift could not be
revoked where the document does not make any provision to that effect. 41. In the instant case, there is no specific condition/stipulation in the
Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997 that the gift would be revoked in case the
deceased plaintiff does not reside in the front (drawing) room of the suit
property. In the absence of such specific condition in the Gift Deed dated
June 10, 1997, the Gift made by the deceased plaintiff of the suit property
in favor of defendant No.2 cannot be revoked on the ground of (alleged)
failure of the defendants to allow the deceased plaintiff to reside in the
front (drawing) room of the suit property in view of legal position stated
above. 42. The submission advanced by the counsel for appellant that in pith
and substance the gift in question was made by the deceased in favor of
Mr.Vikas Verma, son of the defendants, is wholly misplaced and in teeth
of introductory portion of Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997. Further, the
prescriptions contained in Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997 that „Donor
(deceased plaintiff) out of natural love and affection for the above named
Donee (defendant No.2) has already declared and made an Gift‟ and
„Donee has been serving the Donor as a Hindu devoted daughter-in-law‟
leaves no manner of any doubt that the deceased plaintiff had made the
gift in question in favor of defendant No.2. 43. As regards the submission that defendant No.2 did not give suit
property to her son Mr.Vikas Verma after his marriage thereby breaching
an (essential) condition of Gift, suffice would it be to note provisions of Section 11 of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 which reads as under:- 44. The condition contained in the Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997 that
defendant No.2 shall give the suit property to her son Mr.Vikas Verma
after his marriage clearly restricts the interest/enjoyment in/of suit
property of/by defendant No.2 and in no way can be construed for RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 29 of 31 purpose of securing beneficial enjoyment of another immovable property,
the same i.e. condition that defendant No.2 shall give the suit property to
her son Mr.Vikas Verma after his marriage is undoubtedly void and
inoperative in view of prescription contained in Section 11 of Transfer of
Property Act, 1882 and settled legal position that provisions relating to
„Gifts‟ contained in Transfer of Property Act, 1882 are subject to
provisions of Chapter II of the Act including Section 11 thereof. 45. The decision of Supreme Court in Naramadaben‟s case (supra)
relied upon by the counsel for appellant is clearly distinguishable and not
applicable in the facts of present case. In Naramadaben‟s case (supra)
after examining the factual backdrop the Supreme Court concluded that
„gift did not become complete during the life time of the donor and thus
had become ineffective and inoperative.‟ In the instant case, the gift had
become complete during the lifetime of donor i.e. the deceased plaintiff. 46. We note that an argument was advanced on behalf of appellant
before the Single Judge that gift in question was not complete in the
instant case as the deceased had not delivered the possession of the suit
property to the defendant No.2 at/after the time of making the gift. In this
regards, suffice would it be to note the dictum of law laid down by three-
Judge Bench of Supreme Court in the decision reported as ( 2014) 9 SCC
445 Renikuntla Rajamma vs. K. Sarwanamma that delivery of possession
of gifted property is not an essential requirement for making a valid gift
of the immovable property. 47. The upshot of the above discussion is that even if the case set up by
the deceased plaintiff is assumed to be true in its entirety, the deceased
plaintiff (and his legal representative) would not be entitled to revoke the
Gift Deed dated June 10, 1997 made by him in respect of suit property in
favor of defendant No.2. 48. In these circumstances, the learned Single Judge has rightly nipped
the suit instituted by the deceased plaintiff at bud and not setting it for
trial. 49. In view of above discussion, the present appeal is devoid of any
merit and thus dismissed. (PRADEEP NANDRAJOG)
 JUDGE

 (MUKTA GUPTA)
 JUDGE
SEPTEMBER 02, 2015
mamta RFA (OS) No.103/2014 Page 31 of 31