This writ petition is filed declaring the action of the respondents herein

in registering, investigating the FIR No.66/2013 culminated into the PRC

No.90/2014 pending on the file of the Addl. Judicial First Class Magistrate,

Ananthapuram as being illegal and arbitrary and consequently quash same. 2. The grievance of the petitioner is that the petitioner's marriage with

the 4th respondent was solemnized on 23.5.2012 at CSI Church, Ananthapur.

Later, due to disputes between the petitioner and the 4th respondent, the

petitioner filed MC No.12 of 2013 on the file of Senior civil Judge, Yadgiri for

restitution of conjugal rights. As a counter blast to the said case, the 4th

respondent lodged a false and frivolous complaint against the petitioner by

concocting a false story before the 2nd respondent who in turn endorsed the

same to the 3rd respondent to take action as per law vide FIR No.66 of 2013

and after competition of investigation the respondent police filed charge sheet

and the same was numbered as PRC No.90/2014 pending on the file of

Additional Judicial First Class Magistrate, Ananthapuram. It is main

grievance of the petitioner that the respondents NO.2 and 3 without looking at

the allegations in the complaint lodged by the 4th respondent, registered FIR

and took up the investigation even though they haveno jurisdiction to

investigate into the alleged offence. Therefore, in view of the above

circumstances, the PRC No.90/2014 pending on the file of Additional Judicial

First Class Magistrate, Ananthapuram arising out of crime in FIR No.66/2013

is liable to be quashed. 3. This Court vide order dated 25.08.2015 while issuing Rule Nisi, had

granted interim direction as prayed for and the same is extended from time to

time. 4. The respondent No.3 has filed counter affidavit and denied all the

allegations made in the petition. It is contended that the allegation that the 4 th
 respondent gave a report to police as a counter blast to the case filed by the

petitioner in MC No.12 of 2013 on the file of Senior Civil Judge, Yadgiri is not

correct and that can be decided by the trial Court. Any how, as it is for the trial

Court, to consider the defence of the petitioner in criminal case. The

allegations mentioned in the affidavit that this respondent is having no

jurisdiction in registering and investigating the case is not correct and the said

allegation is only a created one. Further the investigation reveals that there is

prima facie case against the accuse for the offence punishable under Sections

498(A), 307, 403 r/w 34 IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of D.P. Act against the

accused in PRC No.90/2014 on the file of AJFCM, Ananthapuramu. 5. Heard Sri Posani Venkateswarlu, learned Senior Counsel

representing Sri G.R. Sudhakar, learned counsel for the petitioner and Sri

P.Sai Prasad, learned counsel for the respondents. 6. On hearing, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

petitioner submits that the complaint lodged by the 4th respondent vide FIR

No.66/2013 and the consequential investigation resulting in filing of charge

sheet taking of cognizance by the learned Magistrate, thereafter culminating

into PRC No.90 of 2014 pending on the file of AJFCM, Ananthapuram are

totally counter blast to the case filed by the petitioner herein vide MC No.12 of

2013 which is filed for restitution of conjugal rights against the 4th respondent.

The act of 4th respondent clearly indicates in lodging the criminal complaint.

On this ground alone the complaint is liable to be quashed. He further

contended that the complaint and consequential investigation is liable to be
 quashed for the reason that the entire allegations contained in the complaint

dated 17.08.2013 discloses alleged incidents happened in Yadagiri District

and at Bangalore of Karnataka State. The complaint does not whisper about

any incident on cause of action to invoke the criminal jurisdiction of

Ananthapuram police. Respondents no.2 and 3 without verifying the same

investigated into the matter in which they have no jurisdiction at all. He further

submits that under Section 177 of Cr.P.C. every offence shall ordinarily be

inquired into and tried by a Court within whose local jurisdiction it was

committee, whereas Section 178 of Cr.PC deals with jurisdiction in case of

continuing offence. Even such an allegation is absent in the complaint dated

17.8.2013 lodged by the 4th respondent. Learned Senior counsel mainly

contended that the allegations in the complaint are false, baseless and

frivolous and further in terms of Section 177 of Cr.P.C., the Court does not

have any jurisdiction to entertain the said case and as such the present writ

petition may be allowed quashing the PRC No.90/2014 on the file of Additional

Judicial First Class Magistrate, Ananthapuram. He also submits that on

similar set of facts and allegations, the 4threspondent/wife filed DVC No.4 of

2014 on the file of Special Judicial Magistrate of First Class (Mobile) for Trial

of Cases under PCR Act -cum-II Additional Junior Civil Judge, Ananthapuram.

The allegations in the said applications are almost verbatim the same and the

said DVC case on a detailed enquiry was dismissed by the Court on

15.04.2024. Further the respondent wife has also filed an application under Section 125 Cr.P.C in FCOP No.207/2018 beforethe Family Court-cum-VII
 Additional District Judge, Ananthapuram seeking monthly maintenance of

Rs.30,000/- and the same was also dismissed by the trial Court vide order

dated 21.12.2022. Aggrieved by the same, the respondent wife has filed

Crl.R.CNo.753/2023 before this Court and the same is pending adjudication.

Learned Senior counsel mainly contended that the allegations raised before

the DVC Court and the FCOP and in the present 498-A case are the same

and the same are invented by the petitioner without any basis and the entire

incident took place in Karnataka State and as such this Hon'ble Court has no

jurisdiction to try the offence in view of Section 177 of Cr.P.C. therefore,

learned counsel requests this Court to allow the present writ petition. 7. To support his contentions, learned Senior Counsel has placed

reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in Rupali Devi

versus State of Uttar Pradesh and others1, wherein it was held that : 8. Learned Senior counsel for the petitioner has also placed another

reliance reported in Manish Ratan and others versus State of M.P and

another2, wherein the Apex Court held that: In another case reported in Preeti Gupta and another versus State of

Jharkahand and another3, wherein the Apex Court held that : 9. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents while denying the

allegations made in the petition contended that the investigation reveals that

there is prima facie case against the accused for the offence punishable under

Section 498(A), 307, 403 r/w 34 IPC and Sections 3 an 4 of D.P act against

the accused in PRC No.90/2014 on the file of Hon'ble AJFCM,

Ananthapuramu. He submits that the allegations mentioned against the

officials and 3rd respondent are false and baseless and the same is invented

for the purpose of the case. The petitioner has no ground to quash the PRC

warranting interference of this Court under Article 226 of Constitution of India. 10. To support his contentions, learned counsel for the respondents

has relied upon a catena of decisions of Hon'ble Supreme Court reported in ( i)

J.P. Sharma v. Vinod Kumar Jain and others4, wherein the Hon'ble Apex

Court held that: 4 11. If the aforesaid hyper-technical contention is accepted, it would act
 against the interests of women and the object for which the provision
 was added. The enactment of the legislature with the aforesaid purpose
 cannot be rendered illusory by a declaration that the complaint would
 lose its significance for the reason that it is registered immediately after
 the receipt of a notice of divorce from the hands of the husband.
 Therefore, the declaration of law made by the co-ordinate Bench can at
 best be held to be applicable and restrictable, to the facts obtaining in
 the said case. The submission of the learned counsel that it is
 universally made applicable in terms of the order is unacceptable,
 particularly qua the facts obtaining in the case at hand. Though the
 proceedings therein were quashed at the FIR stage, I deem it
 appropriate not to accede to the contention of the learned counsel for
 the petitioner that the said judgment should be followed and the present
 proceedings obliterated against the petitioner. (iii) In another case reported in Rupali Devi versus State of Uttar

Pradesh and others6, wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court held that: Section 178 creates an exception to the "ordinary rule" engrafted
in Section 177 by permitting the courts in another local area where the
offence is partly committed to take cognizance. Also if the offence
committed in one local area continues in another local area, the courts
in the latter place would be competent to take cognizance of the matter.
Under Section 179, if by reason of the consequences emanating from a
criminal act an offence is occasioned in another jurisdiction, the court in
that jurisdiction would also be competent to take cognizance. Thus, if an
offence is committed partly in one place and partly in another; or if the
offence is a continuing offence or where the consequences of a criminal
act result in an offence being committed at another place, the exception
to the "ordinary rule" would be attracted and the courts within whose
jurisdiction the criminal act is committed will cease to have exclusive
jurisdiction to try the offence. 9. At this stage it may also be useful to
take note of what can be understood to a continuing offence. The issue
is no longer res integra having been answered by this court in State of
Bihar v. Deokaran Nenshi (1972) 2 SCC 890. Para 5 may be usefully
noticed in this regard. "5. A continuing offence is one which is
susceptible of continuance and is distinguishable from the one which is
committed once and for all. It is one of those offences which arises out
of a failure to obey or comply with a rule or its requirement and which
involves a penalty, the liability for which continues until the rule or its
requirement is obeyed or WWW.LIVELAW.IN 6 complied with. On every
occasion that such disobedience or non-compliance occurs and
reoccurs, there is the offence committed. The distinction between the
two kinds of offences is between an act or omission which constitutes an
offence once and for all and an act or omission which continues, and
therefore, constitutes a fresh offence every time or occasion on which it
continues. In the case of a continuing offence, there is thus the
ingredient of continuance of the offence which is absent in the case of
an offence which takes place when an act or omission is committed
once and for all." 10. The question that has posed for an answer has
nothing to do with the provisions of Section 178 (b) or (c). What has to
be really determined is whether the exception carved out by Section 179
would have any application to confer jurisdiction in the courts situated in
the local area where the parental house of the wife is located. Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code was introduced by the
Criminal Law (second amendment) Act, 1983. In addition to the
aforesaid amendment in the Indian Penal Code , the provisions of Sections 174 and 176 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 relating
to inquiries by police in case of death by suicides and inquiries by
magistrates into cause of such deaths were also amended. Section
198A was also inserted in the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to
prosecution of offences under Section 498A. Further by an amendment
in the first schedule to the Cr.PC the offence under Section 498A was
made cognizable and non-bailable. Of considerable significance is the
introduction of Section 113A in the Indian Evidence Act by the Criminal
Law (second amendment) Act, 1983 providing for presumption as to
abetment of suicide by a married woman to be drawn if such suicide had
been committed within a period of seven years from the date of
marriage of the married woman and she had been subjected to cruelty.
Section 113A is in the following term: "113-A. Presumption as to
abetment of suicide by a married woman.- When the question is
whether the commission of suicide by a woman had been abetted by her
husband or any relative of her husband and it is shown that she had
committed suicide within a period of seven years from the date of her
marriage and that her husband or such relative of her husband had
subjected her to cruelty, the Court may presume, having regard to all the
other circumstances of the case, that such suicide had been abetted by
her husband or by such relative of her husband. Explanation.- For the
purposes of this section, "cruelty" shall have the same meaning as in section 498-A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)." 13. The object
behind the aforesaid amendment, undoubtedly, was to combat the
increasing cases of cruelty by the husband and the relatives of the
husband on the wife which leads to commission of suicides or grave
injury to the wife besides seeking to deal with harassment of the wife so
as to coerce her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful
demand for any property, etc. The above stated object of the
amendment cannot be overlooked while answering the question arising
in the present case. The WWW.LIVELAW.IN 8 judicial endeavour must,
therefore, always be to make the provision of the laws introduced and
inserted by the Criminal Laws (second amendment) Act, 1983 more
efficacious and effective in view of the clear purpose behind the
introduction of the provisions in question, as already noticed. 14. iv) In another case reported in Satvinder Kaur v. State (Govt. of

N.C.T of Delhi ) and another7, wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court held that : After completion of investigation, the respondent police have filed charge

sheet and the same was numbered as PRC No.90 of 2014 on the file of

Additional Judicial First Class Magistrate, Anantpuramu and the same is

pending. 12. It is the main contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner

that, due to disputes between the petitioner and the 4th respondent, the

petitioner filed Maintenance Case vide MC No.12 of 2013 on the file of Senior

civil Judge, Yadgiri for restitution of conjugal rights. Later, the 4th

respondent/wife has filed DVC No.4 of 2014 before the Special Judicial

Magistrate of First Class (Mobile) for Trial of Cases under PCR Act -cum-II

Additional Junior Civil Judge, Ananthapuram, but the same was dismissed by

the learned Magistrate. Consequently, the 4threspondent wife has also filed

FCOP No.207 of 2018 before the Family Court seeking monthly maintenance

and the same was also dismissed. So in view of the above, the allegations

raised before the DVC Court and FCOP are without any basis. 13. In view of the foregoing discussion, on perusing the entire material

on record and on considering the decisions of Hon'ble Supreme Court referred

to above, this Court is of the opinion that, whatever the disputes between the

petitioner and the 4th respondent/wife and the cases DVC and Maintenance

Case, all these facts have to be decided by the trial court only.Therefore,

having regard to facts and circumstances, this Court finds that there are no

grounds for quashing the criminal proceedings and devoid of merits in the

present writ petition and the same is liable to be dismissed. 14. Accordingly, the Writ Petition is dismissed. It is made clear that the

observations made in the course of the order are only for the purpose of

consideration of the case of the petitioner under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and the

same shall not bind or influence the trial against him in Crime No.66 of 2013
 culminated into PRC No.90 of 2014 on the file of JMFC, Ananthapuramu or

any other proceedings. There shall be no order as to costs. 15. It is also made clear that the interim order passed by this Court is

hereby vacated. 16. As a sequel, interlocutory applications, if any pending, shall stand

closed. ______________________________

 DR. K. MANMADHA RAO, J. Date : 18 -06-2024

Gvl
 HON'BLE DR. JUSTICE K. MANMADHA RAO

 WRIT PETITION No.27038 of 2015

 Date : 18.06.2024

Gvl