Recently, National eGovernance Division (NeGD) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), launched Entity Locker, a digital platform designed for the management and verification of business organisation documents.

The press release states that Entity Locker “is a secure, cloud-based solution that simplifies the storage, sharing, and verification of documents for a wide range of entities, including large organisations, corporations, micro, small, and medium Enterprises (MSMEs), trusts, startups and societies.”

It is described as a critical component of India’s Digital Public Infrastructure, “aligning with the vision of the Union Budget 2024-25 for digital governance and ease of doing business.”

We spoke to officials at NeGD, on conditions of anonymity to understand how it works.

The Entity Locker and DigiLocker are both cloud-based platforms aimed for document management and digital governance, but they have distinct functions.

An official from NeGD said that Entity Locker is primarily designed for businesses, including MSMEs, startups, large organizations, and trusts, focusing on streamlining document management, verification, and compliance for business entities.

On the other hand, DigiLocker is mainly designed for individuals to store, share, and manage personal documents.

“Entity Locker works nearly the same as DigiLocker,” the official stated.

They added that before the widespread use of APIs, document verification was a lengthy process, requiring individuals to visit multiple government offices with physical or scanned copies for applications like GSTN or PAN, often taking 15-20 days.

“To address this inefficiency, DigiLocker was introduced for individuals, and similarly, Entity Locker is developed to streamline document management for organizations,” they said.

The officials maintained that the use of Entity locker is voluntary.

Furthermore, they outlined how Aadhaar-authenticated role-based access management would work in the Entity Locker.

They also stated that everyday users or individuals not associated with an organisation cannot access Entity Locker.

Officials further stated how cross data sharing and integration would work with Entity Locker.

They also stated that they are currently in talks with private companies for the development and implementation of the virtual credentials for hotel check-ins.

“We are working to simplify the hotel check-in process by eliminating the need to present physical IDs, scanned copies, or provide duplicate copies. This change aims to address the growing concerns around identity theft and adapt to evolving cybersecurity challenges and regulations,” they stated.

They added that the goal is to eliminate the need for physical or scanned copies of IDs during hotel check-ins.

“In the virtual credential, your data, such as your face and other required information like your name, date of birth, and any details needed for the hotel or place you are checking into, will be displayed. This data will be valid for only 5 to 10 minutes. Once you have checked in, the data will be removed. We are working on this, but it is not yet finalized.”

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event