JASMEET SINGH, J. 1. This is BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 to enlarge the applicant on regular
 bail in ECIR/DLZO-I/28/2022 registered on the basis of FIR bearing
 RC No. 2212022E0030 registered by CBI/EO-III/Delhi. 2. It has been stated that the Ministry of Home Affairs on 19.05.2022 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 1 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 and 20.05.2022 sent two communications to Central Bureau of
 Investigation
 (hereinafter referred to as „CBI‟) against M/s. ISEC SERVICES PVT.
 LTD. and Sh. Sanjay Pandey, the applicant herein and :- 3. It is stated that ISEC SERVICES PVT. LTD. in conspiracy with other
 accused illegally intercepted MTNL lines at National Stock Exchange
 (hereinafter referred to as „NSE‟) between 2009 to 2017 and recorded
 calls by various NSE officials. The transcript of these calls was
 thereafter made available by ISEC to NSE officials. No other phone
 lines outside NSE are alleged to have been recorded or monitored. It
 is further stated that the telephone monitoring was carried out by
 ISEC without taking permission of the competent authority as
 required under Section 5 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and also it
 was without the knowledge and consent of NSE employees. It has
 further been stated that for the work carried out between 2009 to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 2 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 2017, ISEC was paid a sum of Rs. 4.54 crores by NSE. The FIR No.
 RC2212022E0030 dated 07.07.2022 was registered on the allegations
 levelled by CBI under Sections 120-B read with 409 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code , 1860 (" IPC ") and Sections 69B , 72 , 72A of the
 Information Technology Act, 2000 (" IT Act ") and Sections 20 , 21 , 24 & 26 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (" Telegraph Act ") and Sections 3 & 6 of the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933 and Section 13(2) r/w Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption
 Act, 1988 (" PC Act ") at PS - EO-III, CBI, Delhi. 4. Thereupon, the Directorate of Enforcement has registered the ECIR
 bearing no. ECIR/DLZO-I/28/2022 on 11.07.2022 allegations of
 scheduled offences. Pursuant to the FIR, the CBI carried out search in
 the office premises of ISEC and seized various articles and properties.
 The CBI also carried out a search of the applicant and seized his
 mobile phone. The ED arrested applicant on 19.07.2022 and the CBI
 arrested the applicant on 24.09.2022. 5. The applicant states that in or around 2009, NSE approached ISEC
 with a request to engage its services for analysis of calls that NSE was
 recording of its employees. As per ISEC, NSE had been monitoring
 calls from the landlines installed in its premises since 1997. As per the
 proposal, NSE was to be provided a hard drive containing pre-
 recorded call data of its employees and ISEC was required to listen to
 the data provided by NSE on a weekly basis and submit a report to
 NSE officials upon analysis thereof. The work required ISEC to flag
 pre-recorded calls as "suspicious" based on their content and to
 determine whether there were any system or process vulnerabilities. It Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 3 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 is stated that the information available with the NSE and its
 employees is very critical, sensitive and has a great potential for
 misuse. Any leakage of sensitive information could potentially lead to
 insider or unfair trading allowing persons to make illegal profits and
 prejudicing the general public and investors. 6. Mr. Akhil Sibal, learned senior counsel, has stated that there is an
 inherent fallacy in the registration of FIR. The FIR is premised on the
 fact that the action of ISEC as well as the applicant in recording of
 calls is illegal. He states that there is no prohibition in law restraining
 the NSE from recording conversations made on the land lines owned
 by them and in their premises. He states that there is no dishonest
 intention by ISEC as call recording was being done by NSE prior to
 2009. He states that in 2009, services of ISEC were utilized for pre-
 existing arrangement of monitoring and analysis of the calls. The
 applicant entered into a duly signed contract wherein Rs. 4.5 crores
 were paid for the services rendered by ISEC on which the applicant
 has duly paid tax. He states that it is not a prohibited activity and the
 NSE was doing it since 1997. Mr Sibal has taken me through the
 statements of Mr Mahesh Haldipur and Ms. Suguna Pappaiah in this
 regard. He states that none of the ingredients of the sections leveled
 against the applicant make it a cognizable offence. The submission of
 Mr. Sibal as regards the various charge sections are concerned, is as
 follows: 7. Mr Sibal states that Section 5 applies only to Government and does
 not apply to a consumer recording its phone calls. He states in the
 present case, the lines which were recorded belong to NSE and there
 is no prohibition under Section 5 against the consumer. 8. He states that recording of phone calls of employees of NSE by NSE,
 at the workplace, on phone lines provided to NSE, by itself, is not an
 offence as per the Telegraph Act, as: as, of and by itself the said device does not have any capacity
 for transmission/reception. (ii) If every call recording device is a "telegraph" since it is capable
 of recording sound, it would lead to absurd consequences
 whereby every recording device capable of recording sound or
 images, such as a pen-drive, a camera, a recordable compact
 disk, a personal computer etc. would all fall within the
 definition of a telegraph, requiring a licence under section 4 of
 the Act. (iii) The ED in its prosecution complaint seeks to assert that such
 recording was illegal in the absence of permission under Section 5 of the Telegraph Act. This submission is wholly Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 6 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 misplaced as is evident from a bare perusal of Section 5 read
 with Rule 419 A of the Telegraph Act , which prescribes a
 method through which the Central Government or a State
 Government can intercept third party communications only on a
 „public emergency‟ or „in the interest of public safety‟. The said
 provision is specific to interception of third party
 communications by the State. The licensing scheme does not
 envisage a private entity obtaining a licence to install a
 recording device to monitor internal phones on internal lines.
 The falsity of the submission of the ED is evident from its
 failure to produce any cogent material in the form of particular
 guidelines or rules to show that the licensing regime envisages
 and mandates obtaining such a licence. (iv) It is submitted that Section 20 of the Telegraph Act which
 punishes the act of establishing, maintaining or working a
 Telegraph in violation of the provisions contained in Section 4 of the Telegraph Act cannot be invoked in the facts of the
 instant case as the device of the applicant is not a telegraph. (v) He further states that the offence under Section 21 of the
 Telegraph Act is not attracted as no „telegraph‟ has been used
 to transmit or receive any message contrary to the provisions of
 the Act. Significantly, if this section applies, then Comtel and
 Nexsus, who installed the recording equipment at the NSE, and
 all similar vendors of the call recording equipment and service
 would also be guilty of the said offence. (vi) Section 24 of the Telegraph Act punishes breach of Section 23 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 7 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 with intention of learning the contents of any message. Section
 23 in turn prohibits intrusion into a signal room or a telegraph
 office (defined under Rule 2 (tt) of the Indian Telegraph Rules,
 1951). Admittedly, no such telegraph office has been intruded
 upon, and as such this provision is wholly inapplicable. (vii) Section 26 seeks to regulate, by prescribing penal
 consequences, the acts of a Telegraph Officer or a person
 having „official duties.‟ No such person is involved in this case,
 and as such this section is also inapplicable. (viii) The said FIR of the CBI does not invoke the offence under Section 25 of the Telegraph Act and is not a scheduled offence.
 The falsity of this position is apparent from Para 20 of the
 judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in R. M. Malkani v.
 State of Maharashtra , (1973) 1 SCC 471 wherein it was inter
 alia observed and held that where the owner of the device [a
 telephone therein] consents to it being recorded, provisions of Section 25 of the Telegraph Act shall not apply; as the same
 does not constitute „interception‟ as required in the Section. 9. Learned senior counsel states that the device of ISEC is not a
 telegraph. The same is bought and sold in the open market by various
 vendors. There is no prohibition from the vendors selling the
 equipment. 10. Mr. Sibal states the provisions of the IT Act are wholly inapplicable
 for the following reasons: Admittedly, only the work telephones at the NSE were being
 monitored, and thus there is no occasion for any information
 relating to personal or of a personal/sensitive nature being
 misused. In any event there is no allegation made that such
 information was used to cause „wrongful loss‟ or „wrongful
 gain‟. Section 72-A is bailable and non-cognizable offence and
 anyways, the applicant had the consent of the owner of the line
 i.e. NSE. 11. As regards PC Act is concerned, Mr. Sibal submits that the contract is
 with the NSE. He states that at best even assuming that the contract
 between the NSE and the applicant is unlawful, there is no dishonest
 purpose or intention. 12. He states that Section 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the PC Act
 (PMLA Scheduled Offences) cannot be invoked as there is no
 allegation of giving or receiving a bribe or giving of illegal
 gratification. Nor is this a case of „criminal misconduct‟. This is a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 9 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 case where the NSE, which is a private company, engaged ISEC to
 perform a service. Payments were made in lieu of receipt of such
 services. It is not the case of the prosecution that the contract was
 entered into to provide a „pecuniary advantage‟ to ISEC. Nor is it the
 case of the prosecution that inflated sums were paid for receipt of
 such services. Contractual compensation for services rendered cannot,
 without more amount, amount to a "pecuniary advantage" in terms of
 the PC Act . 13. He states that provisions of IPC are inapplicable for the following
 reasons: However, in the present case, the entire work was executed
 strictly as per the terms of the proposal duly accepted by NSE &
 awarded to ISEC. The necessary ingredients for an offence of
 „Cheating‟ have not been made out as ISEC was merely
 executing a commercial contract entered into with NSE.
 Furthermore, there is no wrongful loss caused to anyone, let
 alone any wrongful gain. (ii) The ED has failed to show the nature of such information which Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 10 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 was shared or misused, or intended to be misused, to cause any
 wrongful loss or wrongful gain. Moreover, such „customers‟
 have not filed any complaint nor have they been made witnesses
 in the Complaint. (iii) He states that Section 409 IPC cannot be invoked because none
 of these ingredients of sec.409 have been satisfied in the subject
 FIR. The allegations in the said FIR nowhere make out a case
 that the dominion or control over the property was acquired by
 the Applicant herein in the capacity of being a Public Servant. (iv) He further states that even assuming that call recordings are
 „property‟ within the meaning of Section 409 of IPC, there is no
 basis to contend that such property was „misappropriated‟. It is a
 matter of fact that M/s ISEC was merely provided such call data
 by the NSE, analyzed it, and duly returned them to the NSE.
 Thus, under no circumstances can it be alleged that these call
 recordings, even if assumed to be „property‟ under section 409 IPC, were misappropriated by M/s ISEC. (v) He states that under section 120-B of the IPC, there is no illegal
 act and assuming that there was an illegal act, there is no
 conspiracy as there is no meeting of minds between the various
 accused. 14. Learned senior counsel also states that provisions of PMLA are
 inapplicable as none of the offences alleged in the said FIR (much less
 scheduled offences as per PMLA) are made out. In such
 circumstances, there is no occasion to assert the existence of any
 „proceeds of crime‟; accordingly, no offence of money laundering Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 11 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 within the meaning of Section 3 has been committed. 15. He has further drawn my attention to SEBI circulars which itself
 mentions for keeping phone recording between a broker and
 customer. The operative portion of the circular reads as under: II. The current regulatory requirements in commodity
 derivative markets require that "The members shall execute
 the trade of clients only after keeping evidence of the client Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 12 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 placing such order; it could be, interalia, in the form of
 sound recording." There are no such requirements in
 Equity, Equity Derivative and Currency Derivative Market
 side. III. To further strengthen regulatory provisions against un-
 authorized trades and also to harmonise the requirements
 across markets, it has now been decided that all brokers
 shall execute trades of clients only after keeping
 evidence of the client placing such order, it could be, inter
 alia, in the form of: 16. Mr Sibal also places reliance on G.N. Verma v. State of Jharkhand
 and Anr. , (2014) 4 SCC 282 to emphasise that rule of construction of
 penal statutes states that if two possible and reasonable constructions
 can be put upon a penal provision, the court must lean towards that
 construction which exempts the subject from penalty rather than the
 one which imposes penalty. The relevant portion of G.N. Verma (supra) reads as under: 17. Per contra, Mr. Raju, learned ASG, states that a bare perusal of the
 FIR and Prosecution Complaint will disclose that under the garb of
 study of cyber vulnerabilities at NSE, a criminal conspiracy was
 entered into for telephone tapping without any authorization as
 required under the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 . The phone calls of
 employees of NSE were illegally intercepted without their consent or
 knowledge. The comparison by petitioner of call centres is misleading
 since there is a due disclosure in call centres and consent is taken
 prior to monitoring and recording of calls which is absent in this case. 18. He states that Section 3(1AA) of the Indian Telegraph Act, provides
 for the definition of Telegraph, which will show that telegraph means
 any apparatus capable of use for reception of signals. The device
 installed by ISEC recorded all incoming and outgoing calls of all
 Primary Rate Interface (PRI) lines which are connected to the voice
 logging system. Investigation has revealed that the PRI lines coming
 from the service provider were split into two with the help of a
 splitter. Out of these two lines, one went to the EPBAX and the other
 went to the Voice Logging System. Therefore, the tapping was done Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 18 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 prior to the line entering the EPBAX at the stage of PRI line coming
 from MTNL itself which is a clear breach of the Telegraph Act in
 terms of Section 20 read with section 4 of the Telegraph Act apart
 from Section 25(b) . 19. As per the Prosecution Complaint, the allegation against the applicant
 is as under: - Name of the 2. SANJAY PANDEY
 accused
 Role in the Based upon the investigation conducted, as detailed
 above, it is clearly established that Sanjay Pandey
 case
 was playing an active role in iSec Services Private
 Limited (the company) through out the period 2009
 to 2017. Though he has tried to project that he was
 merely having an advisory and guidance role in the
 company, however, the factual position as
 evidenced by the documents available on record
 and statements of various persons tendered under
 Section 50 of PMLA, 2002 belie his claims. It is a
 proven fact that he was deeply and fully involved in
 all the affairs of the company including
 monitoring/interception/recording of telephone
 calls of NSE employees and its nomenclature as
 „Periodic Study of Cyber Vulnerabilities‟. All the
 employees were regularly briefing him about the
 affairs of the company and he was seeking updates
 from them and also issuing directions for different
 types of work of the company including the so
 called Cyber Vulnerabilities Study. It was he who
 had participated in the discussions with Mr. Ravi
 Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna on behalf of the
 company regarding monitoring/
 interception/recording of
 telephone calls of NSE employees and also the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 19 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 decision to term it as Cyber Vulnerability Studies.
 The work order dated 03.06.2009 was marked to
 him. Though initially he tried to mislead the
 investigation by stating that the call
 recordings were provided to the company by NSE,
 however, on sustained interrogation, he admitted
 that the said call recordings were retrieved by
 employees of the company, copied in storage media,
 taken to the office of the company, listened to by a
 team of employees and were segregated as
 suspicious calls. The transcripts of such call
 recordings deemed suspicious by the company
 employees were prepared and a report was
 submitted to NSE on a periodic basis along with
 suspicious call recordings in a storage media. The
 e-mail communications also prove that the system
 used for recording the calls between 2009 to 2012
 was maintained by the company employees,
 numbers were hooked by them, ports were
 monitored by them and regular back up i.e. call
 recordings were taken out by the employees of the
 company only. Sanjay Pandey was regularly
 monitoring the said work and even had prepared
 and forwarded the call monitoring reports to NSE.
 He had even issued instructions not to send email
 regarding it and instead call on his phone. It is also
 a proven fact that in 2012, iSec Services Private
 Limited had procured a new and better system for
 the said illegal activity. Sanjay Pandey was also
 involved in finalizing the said product and the cost
 of hardware/software from Nexsus Techno
 Solutions Private Limited. The said system was got
 installed by the company at NSE premises. The
 same was run by its employees. The contents of e- mail dated 1.09.212 from [email protected] [email protected] clearly show that it was decided
 between iSec Services Private Limited and Nexsus Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 20 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 Techno Solutions Private Limited for customization
 of the product which would enable the employee of
 the company deployed at NSE to choose which lines
 would be recorded and which won't and also to
 show the NSE higher-ups which lines are being
 recorded and which were completely secure. During the brief period in 2012-2013, when the call
 monitoring work was suspended for a brief period,
 he was regularly exhorting his employees for
 resumption of the said work. He held regular
 meetings with NSE employees including the persons
 at the helm of affairs for the company's business
 with NSE including
 monitoring/interception/recording of telephone
 calls of NSE employees. It is also an admitted fact
 that none of the directors of the company were
 involved in day to day affairs of the company. It has
 also been admitted by him that he was running the
 company through his proxies including Mr. Jagdish
 Dalvi, who though not on the rolls of the company
 had admitted to having signed documents/proposals
 on behalf of the company at the behest of Sanjay
 Pandey. Thus, Sh. Sanjay Pandey is guilty of
 offence of money laundering as defined in Section 3 of the PMLA, 2002 read with Section 70 ibid as he
 was directly or indirectly indulging in or knowingly
 assisting in and was actually involved in all or any
 process or activity connected with the proceeds of
 crime including its concealment, possession,
 acquisition or use and projecting or claiming it as
 untainted property. 20. He states that ISEC and the petitioner herein have caused themselves
 wrongful gain through a criminal conspiracy with some officials of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 21 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 NSE to deceive to deliver Rs 4.54 crores for such illegal activity of
 interception of telephone lines. It is sufficient to show that wrongful
 gain is caused to the person on account of fraudulent and dishonest
 representation to NSE. Reliance in this regard is placed on the
 decision of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Tulsi Ram etc. vs. State of
 Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1963 SC 666 at Para17, wherein it was held as
 under: 21. He states that the Information Technology Act is also breached as
 there is a violation of Sec. 69B(2) read with sub- section 4 since ISEC
 is not an authorized agency which has been authorized to transmit or
 receive traffic data or information. He further states that section 72 is
 also violated since officials of NSE in conspiracy with ISEC have
 tried to secure access to information without consent of the person
 concerned and disclosed such information to higher officials of NSE. 22. He states that in the rejoinder of the applicant, an attempt has been
 made to project that during the period 2012-2017, the telephone trunk
 lines were not tampered with and that the call recording was being
 done from a LAN cable using splitter. However, the evidence
 available with ED shows the falsity of the said claim made by the
 applicant. In his statement dated 26.08.2022, Sh. Subramaniam Iyer
 reiterated the contents of his earlier statement dated 26.05.2022
 wherein he had stated as follow: - 23. He also states that the above statement clearly shows that the PRI
 lines itself were split into two lines with the help of a splitter.
 Additionally, Sh. Subramaniam Iyer had also provided copies of
 communications exchanged between his company and ISEC Services
 Private Limited which corroborate the factual position as stated
 above. 24. He further states that based on the evidence collected so far, it is seen
 that the applicant by way of criminal activity related to a scheduled
 offence has indulged in or actually involved in or knowingly assisted
 in process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime including
 its acquisition, use and projection thereof as untainted property,
 thereby, has committed an offence of money-laundering as defined
 under Section 3 of PMLA, 2002. 25. He further states that investigation in the instant case has revealed the
 role of the applicant in the commission of the offence of money
 laundering. Based on the evidence and material in possession against
 the said applicant, it can be safely concluded that he is involved in the
 offence of money laundering. Further investigation is being conducted
 to trace the Proceeds of Crime and crack the modus operandi of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 24 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 Accused person(s). Hence, he states that there is sufficient material on
 record to show that no satisfaction under 45 of the PMLA can be
 reached. 26. He states that the argument that the scheduled offences in the present
 case are bailable and non-cognizable is without merit since the
 offence of money laundering is non-bailable and cognizable and the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary &Ors. vs.
 Union of India &Ors. 2022 SCC OnLine SC 929 at Para 406 has
 held as under: ANALYSIS:- 27. I have heard learned counsel for the parties. 28. The FIR as well as the Prosecution Complaint in the present case, is
 premised on the allegation that ISEC illegally intercepted the MTNL
 lines at the NSE between 2009 & 2017 and recorded calls of various
 NSE officials. CBI alleges that ISEC was monitoring and analysing
 such calls and sending periodic reports to the NSE. It is alleged that
 these acts constitute the underlying scheduled offences. The
 Enforcement Directorate alleges that the revenue of Rs. 4.54 crores
 generated by ISEC for providing such services constitutes the
 „proceeds of crime‟ and therefore alleges commission of the offence
 of money laundering punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA. 29. ISEC is primarily involved in the business of cyber security
 consulting, which includes conducting audits, preparing policy design
 and evaluation of cyber security systems and processes. 30. In the year 2009, the NSE entered into a contract with ISEC. ISEC‟s
 mandate under this contract was to analyze data and check for cyber
 vulnerabilities within the NSE. As per the agreed arrangement
 between NSE and ISEC, NSE would provide ISEC with a hard drive
 (on a weekly basis) which contained the pre-recorded call data that
 ISEC was to analyse. ISEC would conclude its analysis and submit its
 weekly report to the NSE. ISEC would identify and isolate suspicious
 calls bearing on the issue of data and information security and cyber
 and process vulnerability. Until 2012, such call-recording took place
 via a system installed by one M/s Comtel. Subsequently, from the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 26 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 year 2012, such call-recording was done using a set-up installed by
 one NEXSUS Techno Solutions Pvt. Ltd. ("NEXSUS"). 31. I am prima facie of the view that tapping phone lines or recording
 calls without consent is a breach of privacy. The right to privacy
 enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution demands that phone
 calls not be recorded. Only with consent of the individuals concerned,
 can such activity be carried out otherwise it will amount to breach of
 the fundamental right to privacy. 32. The Apex Court in K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union Of India (2017) 10
 SCC 1 holds right to privacy inheres in every individual as a natural
 right. It is inalienable and attached to every individual as a pre-
 condition for being able to exercise their freedom. The Apex Court
 held that "Privacy is a concomitant of the right of the individual to
 exercise control over his or her personality. It finds an origin in the
 notion that there are certain rights which are natural to or inherent in
 a human being. Natural rights are inalienable because they are
 inseparable from the human personality. The human element in life is
 impossible to conceive without the existence of natural rights..."The
 Supreme Court also discussed the right to privacy with respect to
 protection of informational privacy and the right to preserve personal
 reputation. The court held that the law must provide for data
 protection and regulate national security exceptions that allow for
 interception of data by the State. 33. The nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court in Puttaswamy (supra)
 whilst unanimously recognizing right to privacy as an intrinsic part of
 the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 27 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 Constitution also enunciated that the right was not absolute but
 allowed for restriction where the restriction is was provided by law,
 corresponds to a legitimate aim of the State and is proportionate and
 necessary to the objective it sought to achieve. 34. I have gone through the Status Report dated 14.09.2022 filed by CBI
 in the quashing petitions viz., CRL. M.C 3763/2022 and CRL. M.C
 3766/2022 wherein under para 8.1 it is stated that M/s ISEC illegally
 intercepted the phone calls of employees of NSE by installing illegal
 machines which act is in contravention of provisions of the Telegraph
 Act . I am prima facie in agreement with the acts being violative of the Telegraph Act , however, the offences under the Telegraph Act are not
 scheduled offences under PMLA. 35. In the present case, recording or tapping of phone lines by ISEC was
 not an action of the State. The facets of privacy include right of non-
 interference with the individual body, protection of personal
 information and autonomy over personal choices. Consent is essential
 when it comes to recording phone lines which aspect was disregarded
 by both NSE and ISEC. However, this aspect need not detain me any
 further as in the present application, I am only dealing with the bail
 application of the applicant and not the quashing petition. 36. In the given case, NSE mandates to record conversations since SEBI
 has mandated brokers to execute trades only after maintaining inter
 alia telephonic recordings. The same is duly found in the SEBI
 circulars dated 26.09.2017 and 30.11.2017 which are detailed above.
 Hence, on one hand, the circulars mandate calls be recorded for the
 purposes of adjudication of disputes while on the other hand, it Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 28 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 prosecutes for complying with the circulars. 37. The scheduled offences against the applicant are the following: 38. For the purposes of deciding the present Bail Application, I am only
 to see the scheduled offences in the FIR. The other offences are not
 relevant for this bail application and would be subject matter of
 quashing petitions which are yet to be argued. 39. Section 72 of the IT Act reads as under: 40. There are 3 requirements of the mandate of section 72:- 1. Powers
 must be conferred under the Act; 2. In pursuance of those powers,
 person must have access to electronic record, book, register,
 correspondence, information, document or other material without the
 consent of the person concerned and 3. There has to be disclosure of
 such electronic record, book, register, correspondence, information,
 document or other material to any other person by that person. 41. Sec.72 of the IT Act prescribes the penalty for breach of
 confidentiality and privacy. The language of sec. 72 IT Act
 categorically states that it penalises only persons acting "in pursuance
 of any of the powers conferred under" the IT Act or the rules or
 regulations made thereunder. In the present case, the prosecution
 under PMLA seems to be predicated on the fact that by tapping the
 telephone lines of the employees of NSE, the applicant has secured
 access to electronic record without the consent of that person and is
 punishable. However, the key words in section 72 IT Act state that the
 person who secures access to electronic record, book, register, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 30 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 correspondence, information, document or other material has to be in
 pursuance of powers conferred under the Act or rules and regulations
 made thereunder. 42. The applicant is not a person who has any powers conferred under the
 act (or was acting in pursuance thereof) or any rules or regulations
 made thereunder. ISEC was recording conversations pursuant to the
 contractual obligations with NSE. Thus, Section 72 of the IT Act
 cannot be invoked in the present matter. 43. No offence under section 72 of the IT Act is made out because firstly,
 the Applicant or ISEC had never been conferred with any powers in
 terms of the IT Act or rules and regulations made therein and
 secondly, there is no allegation in the FIR or the Prosecution
 Complaint that the Applicant or ISEC was acting in pursuance of
 powers conferred under the IT Act or rules and regulations made
 therein. 44. The act of tapping and recording phone calls without consent of the
 concerned person can be penalised under various sections of the Indian Telegraph Act and Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act but the
 offences under the said statutes are not scheduled offences. On the
 other hand, invocation of sec. 72 of the IT Act is only limited to
 breach of confidentiality and privacy, which offence has not been
 made out. 45. As regards offences under the IPC are concerned, I am of the opinion
 that prima facie the ingredients of the alleged offences are not made
 out in the present case. 46. The scheduled offences under section 120B read with 409 and 420 IPC are not made out. NSE and ISEC, both knew the purport of the
 agreement and obligations of the contracting parties was clear from
 the beginning. ISEC did not induce or deceive NSE to part with
 money. Section 409 IPC reads as under: 47. For an offence of criminal breach of trust under section 409 IPC to
 have been committed, the following ingredients need to be satisfied: 48. The allegations in the prosecution case nowhere make out a case that
 the dominion or control over the property was acquired by the
 Applicant herein in the capacity of being a Public Servant. 49. Section 409 of the IPC cannot be invoked in the facts of the instant
 case as a necessary ingredient of the offence of criminal breach of
 trust (as defined in Section 405 / 403 of the IPC) is „dishonest
 misappropriation/conversion‟ to one‟s own use. There is no allegation
 that a) the data from the pre-recorded calls was used for any purpose
 other than the preparation of the Call Monitoring Reports; and b) all
 sums paid to ISEC by NSE were for services duly rendered under a
 contract, and as such the payment of such sums have not been
 „embezzled‟ or „siphoned off‟ and cannot be said to have been
 „misappropriated‟. 50. The prosecution case fails to satisfy the ingredients of criminal breach
 of trust as defined in S. 405 of the IPC, since there is not even a
 whisper therein of any „misappropriation‟ of property. Further, the
 prosecution case is also completely silent on there being any wilful
 loss caused to any person either by ISEC or the Applicant. 51. Section 420 IPC is reproduced below: 52. The essential ingredients of Section 420 IPC as enunciated by the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Prof. R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha
 Seetharam (2019) 16 SCC 739 are as under : 53. The Apex court in V.Y. Jose & Anr. v. State of Gujarat , (2009) 3
 SCC 78 observed the pre-requisites for determining offence under Section 420 IPC and more particularly, paragraph 14 which reads as
 under: For the purpose of constituting an offence of cheating,
 the complainant is required to show that the accused had
 fraudulent or dishonest intention at the time of making
 promise of representation. Even in a case where
 allegations are made in regard to failure on the part of
 the accused to keep his promise, in the absence of a
 culpable intention at the time of making initial promise
 being absent, no offence under Section 420 of the Penal
 Code can be said to have been made out." 54. The primary ingredient for sec. 420 IPC (which is a PMLA Scheduled
 Offence) is the dishonest inducement or deception to deliver any
 property. Cheating under sec. 415 IPC lays emphasis on the phrase
 „dishonestly or fraudulently‟ thereby meaning that for an offence of
 cheating to establish, there must be a dishonest intent to cause a
 wrongful loss or wrongful gain or an intention to defraud. In the
 present case, there was a business arrangement between ISEC and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 35 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 NSE by virtue of a contract under which the entire work was being
 executed. 55. The entire prosecution is silent on the identity of the victim who has
 suffered a wrongful loss. There is nobody named in the prosecution
 complaint who has been deceived or cheated. Nobody has been
 named to whom a wrongful loss has been caused and as to what is the
 wrongful loss. Except for a bald averment that various customers have
 been cheated, the complaint is totally silent on the name of the
 customers, the way and manner that they have been cheated. 56. It is alleged that the „customers‟ were cheated as they shared
 „information‟ only under an assumption that the same would not be
 recorded. However, the ED has failed to show the nature of such
 information which was shared or misused, or intended to be misused,
 to cause any wrongful loss or wrongful gain. Moreover, no
 „customers‟ have filed any complaint or been made witnesses in the
 Complaint. 57. Section 120B of IPC reads as under: 58. The offence under section 120-B IPC (which is also a PMLA
 scheduled offence) is also not made out in so far as the criminal intent
 i.e., agreement to do an illegal act as defined under sec.120-A IPC is
 not established. NSE has been involved in call-recording since 1997
 through other vendors such as M/s Comtel, prior to ISEC being
 brought into the picture to analyse recorded calls. Since call recording
 was being done prior to the arrival of ISEC, there is no criminal
 conspiracy entered into between ISEC and NSE with the intention of
 committing an illegal act, namely, call recording. Thus, the element of
 criminal intent is not made out in the present case and no offence
 under section 120 B read with 409 and 420 IPC is established. 59. In addition, even though 120B IPC is a standalone scheduled offence
 under PMLA, in the present case, the offences under section 120B is
 alleged along with section 409 and 420 IPC. It has been stated in para
 3 of the Prosecution Complaint that 120B is read with 420 IPC : 60. In the Reply dated 07.09.2022 filed by the Respondent, it has been
 stated as under: 61. The remand application filed by the ED dated 20.07.2022 also reads
 section 120B to be read with 420 IPC . The relevant portion reads as
 under: 62. In fact, the ED whilst seeking further remand custody of the applicant
 has stated under para 4 that 120 B is read with 420 IPC : 63. Hence, prima facie, for the reasons stated above, ingredients of
 section 120B read with section 409 and 420 IPC have not been made
 out in the present case. 64. The prerequisite for the offence under Section 13 (1)(d) of the PC Act
 is demand or request of a valuable thing or pecuniary advantage from
 the public servant. Section 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of PC Act (pre-
 amended) is reproduced below: 65. In A. Subair v. State of Kerala , ( 2009) 6 SCC 587 and C.K. Jaffer
 Sharief v. State (2013) 1 SCC 205. The Apex court in A. Subair (supra) culled out the essential ingredients for determining offence
 under Section 13 (1)(d) of PC Act while observing the following: 66. As regards the offences under sec. 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) PC Act
 are concerned, which are PMLA Scheduled Offences, the same
 cannot be invoked since there is no allegation in the prosecution case
 of giving or receiving a bribe or illegal gratification.NSE is a private
 entity, thus no offences under section 13 of the PC Act, can be said to
 have been committed over the course of ISEC‟s contractual dealings
 with it. 67. This is a case where the NSE, which is a private company, engaged
 ISEC to perform a service. Payments were made in lieu of receipt of
 such services. ISEC duly showed amounts in tax returns and paid
 income tax on said income. Therefore, I find merit in the petitioner‟s
 submission that contractual compensation of Rs. 4.54 crores for
 services rendered cannot amount to a "pecuniary advantage" in terms
 of the PC Act . 68. No call recordings were ever entrusted to the Applicant on account of
 his capacity as a „public servant‟. The Applicant was a director of
 ISEC only from 2003 till 17.05.2006. After resigning, his role was
 peripheral and supervisory in nature. 69. At the time the NSE entered into a contractual relationship with M/s
 ISEC in 2009, the Applicant was not holding public office. Thus,
 under no circumstances can an offence under section 13(1)(d) of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 42 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 PC Act be alleged to have been made out. It was subsequently on
 account of ISEC‟s successful and satisfactory performance, that NSE
 was pleased to periodically renew ISEC‟s contractual mandate. 70. After December 2011 (viz. when the Applicant was finally reinstated
 as a public servant), he has received rental income from ISEC. Post
 2011, the Applicant has not received any emoluments from ISEC.
 Payments received have largely been on account of rent paid to the
 Applicant. Thus, the applicant has not received any pecuniary
 advantage. 71. Nothing has been produced before me to demonstrate that the
 Applicant employed any corrupt or illegal means to obtain a valuable
 thing or pecuniary advantage for himself. No offence under section
 13(1)(d) PC Act can be alleged to have been committed as no
 presumption treating the receipt of monies as illegal gratification can
 be drawn. 72. Since ISEC‟s performance of its obligations was done as per its
 contract with the NSE and the Applicant did not hold any public
 office between 2009 and 2011, therefore, there is no question of him
 abusing „his position as a public servant‟. 73. As per Section 45 PMLA, the two conditions for grant of bail are: (i)
 public prosecutor has been given the opportunity to oppose the bail
 and (ii) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is
 not guilty of the offence and the accused is not likely to commit any
 offence while on bail. 74. To address the second condition, the ingredients of offence under section 3 PMLA are as under: 75. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra)
 while discussing grant of bail under section 45 PMLA has observed
 that provisions of PMLA would apply when a person has derived or
 obtained property as a result of a scheduled offence, and then
 indulged in any process or activity connected with such property. 76. Since I have prima facie given a finding that none of the ingredients
 of the scheduled offence are made out, the provisions of PMLA are
 not attracted. 77. I am of the view that in the present case, no scheduled offence is
 prima facie made out, concomitantly there cannot be proceeds of
 crime having been generated as there is no criminal activity relating to
 a scheduled offence. This position is in consonance with the dicta of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) where the Hon‟ble Supreme
 Court held as under: 78. Since none of the ingredients of the scheduled offences viz., Section
 72 IT Act, Section 120B r/w 409 and 420 IPC , Section 13(2) read
 with 13(1)(d) PC Act are made out, there is no occasion to allege
 acquisition or retention of „proceeds of crime‟, which under Section
 2(u) of PMLA is defined to mean proceeds arising out of „scheduled
 offences.‟ 79. In view of the above discussion, the Applicant cannot be held to have
 derived or obtained property as a result of criminal activity relating to
 or in relation to a scheduled offence. 80. Reliance is placed on Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra)wherein the
 Hon‟ble Supreme Court has held that: 81. The afore-mentioned judgment clearly provides that at the stage of
 bail, I am not to determine the guilt of the accused but to only assess
 the matter on broad probabilities. 82. Hence, there is no likelihood of the Applicant committing an offence
 under the PMLA if released on bail. 83. On the basis of the material collected and referenced by the ED, the
 ED has not substantiated that the Applicant has derived or obtained
 any property as a result of a scheduled offence or indulged in any
 activity or process relating to that property. 84. I am of the view that according to sec.45 PMLA, prima facie, there
 are reasonable grounds to believe that the Applicant is not guilty of
 the offence and he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. I
 have given an opportunity to the ED to oppose the bail application
 thereby satisfying the conditions enumerated under 45 PMLA. 85. After hearing of arguments, this Court has been informed of grant of
 bail by Learned ASJ on 07.11.2022 in CBI vs. Ravi Narain, Bail Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 46 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26 Matter No. 02/2022 and Bail Matter No. 232/2022 on the
 humanitarian grounds. The said case is not applicable herein since in
 my view, the case for bail on humanitarian grounds is not available to
 the Applicant. 86. For aforesaid reasons, the application is allowed and the applicant is
 granted bail on the following terms and conditions: 87. In view of the above, the bail application is disposed of. JASMEET SINGH, J
 th
 DECEMBER 8 , 2022 / (MS) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed byAMIT BAIL APPLN. 2409/2022 Page 48 of 48 ARORA Signing Date:08.12.2022 14:31:26