“How is this allowed on a platform that is so important today? Why does it not moderate these posts? Why does it lack a team or technology to prevent this?” renowned singer Shreya Ghoshal asked, commenting on fake advertisements being run on X (formerly Twitter) using her images—a tactic known as “celeb bait.” The ads, run via multiple accounts—many of them with “blue ticks,” which were previously a form of verification—typically promoted fraudulent investment applications by impersonating the visual style of The Indian Express and spoofing URLs .

Watch the entire interview:

One of the ads featuring Ghoshal led to an altered interview on a lookalike fake website of The Indian Express, which falsely claimed she earns “Rs. 1,80,000 to Rs. 2,50,000 per day” using a cryptocurrency trading platform called Lovarionix Liquidity, according to its website . “I’m sure it’s an attempt to exploit innocent users,” she said, referring to the doctored article that used images from an original interview first published on Mirchi Plus’s YouTube channel. Ghoshal also raised concerns about the usage of Prime Minister Modi’s videos in similar celeb-bait ads. Interestingly, while such ads remain on X and Facebook, Instagram appears to have curbed the issue.

Ads were AI Generated and led to a phishing link: “This has been going on for many months now, I think since February or March. It has been constant and aggressive. Initially, I thought it was just a few incidents. It was shocking because the images were AI-generated—showing me with a blue eye or behind bars. Very strange and eye-catching, for sure. I knew it was spam or fraudulent. When you open the link, there’s an interview that starts with excerpts from an actual interview I did with Kareena Kapoor Khan. At the end, there’s a phishing link that leads to a very shady website. People unaware of this might unknowingly share their personal information. I’m sure it’s an attempt to exploit innocent users.”

Reporting to X has failed, and new handles would run ads: “I initially saw these ads and tried to report them. I asked my fans to do the same, hoping they would go away. But as you rightly said, these are promoted ads from verified accounts on X. No matter how many times you report them, new handles and links keep emerging. I think it’s a team of people doing this. They’re easily able to run ads on X, and clearly, X isn’t doing anything about it.”

Her X account had been hacked as well: Even my X account got hacked because of a flood of spamming and something. I may have clicked something without realizing it, and it got hacked. For the longest time, I had no help from their team. There’s no way you can actually reach them. There is no customer service. So I had to rely on sources. There was a kind person who is probably an employee of X in India who helped me recover my account.

For at least two or three months, I didn’t have access to my X account, which is very strange. For someone with that many followers, the entire fanbase was worried and writing to X on my behalf. However, I never saw anyone respond. The process of recovering the account was ineffective. It was an endless loop that never led to a solution. It kept returning to the same two-factor authentication step with a code, which I never generated or requested. Despite this, they were unable to help me. It felt like bots were working on, with no real customer service involved.

Other celebrities are facing this issue as well: “I got calls from one or two Bollywood actresses and another person, a composer, who had the same problem, they were hacked. I don’t know if they found any solution.”

There are ads featuring PM Modi as well: “Eventually, I started seeing ads featuring our PM, Modi ji. I thought, how is that possible? That is dangerous. Impersonating any public figure is dangerous because it’s a phishing link. People click on them and end up losing money or getting scammed. How is this allowed on a platform that is so important today? Why is it not being moderated? Why is there no team or technology to prevent it from happening?”

Stopped on Instagram, but continues on Facebook: “I am not a frequent user of Facebook, but I do use Instagram, both are Meta platforms. The issue used to occur on Instagram earlier but has since stopped. I believe there was probably some intervention from the Meta team. However, it apparently continues on Facebook. I got to know this from some friends who are active users of the platform. The problem is much more rampant on X, aggressively rampant. It’s impossible and my mentions are flooded with concern and irritation about: ‘Why are you not able to do anything about it?’”

No grievance redressal from X: “There has been no response, and there is no grievance team to respond to these issues. Thankfully, I regained access to my hacked account, but this case never got any response from their team. We also tried to file a report through cybercrime, there was an FIR that everyone urged us to do. We did that.

I don’t think cybercrime can handle it. I don’t even fully understand what kind of violations are involved. Someone has now advised me to file for copyright protection. So that no one can use your image or name without authorization.”

Would she consider getting her personality rights protected? “Now I have really thought this through because I feel that until I have something very solid to fight against a platform like X and Meta, two big organizations, how will I deal with that? I need to have something concrete to be able to say, ‘You cannot use these things on your platform.’ Maybe that is one way I’m going to go for as well, hopefully.”

Note: Shreya Ghoshal is not the only victim of such misleading ads. Similar ads have featured Anant Ambani, Virat Kohli, and Jagadish Vasudev (a.k.a. Sadhguru). Recently, Sadhguru approached the Delhi High Court to protect his personality rights, and the court issued a “dynamic+” injunction against the unknown perpetrators—allowing copyright holders to extend protection to future, yet-to-be-created works.

Several other courts have issued similar orders for Anil Kapoor , Amitabh Bachchan , Jackie Shroff , Rajat Sharma , Arijit Singh , and Mohan Babu , safeguarding their personality rights. Ghoshal, too, has indicated she may follow this path to prevent the misuse of her name and image.

What should platforms do? “I feel there is no customer care representation for our country. Genuinely, I think India does not have any system in place to address concerns, and there are no teams to assist users. That is very important—they should have a dedicated grievance or issue-resolution team. I’m sure they probably have priorities for different countries, but maybe India does not have that.”

Technology should come to the rescue: “Secondly, I feel the use of AI raises many issues, and technology itself can offer solutions. For example, on YouTube, if there is misuse of content, copyright infringement, or if it features me in a way I don’t approve of, I can have it removed. Google has that system in place. This kind of moderation and moral responsibility is what a tech platform should have, especially one as large as Google. They have cracked these issues from an early stage and were probably prepared for impersonation and misusing it. But, X is probably not prepared, and it is generating a lot of money for them because anyone running an ad on their platform brings money for them.”

AI compounds the problems: “So how does one handle these issues? There has to be a team, moderation, and manual intervention, along with technological AI prevention. Times are changing very quickly. AI is extremely dangerous, you can’t always tell what is true and what is not. It’s so close to being believable. People like us understand when an image is AI-generated, but most people in our country are not regularly engaged with this and aren’t very tech-savvy. They will believe anything that is passed on to them.”

What should the government do? “I don’t know. To be honest, I don’t really understand how these things work. But something has to be done to establish a team to address this. Protecting your own people is, of course, the government’s job, but the platforms also need to work hand in hand with the government. I’m sure the government wants to take action.

I recently heard that the Karnataka government was fighting a case with X, where screenshots of my issue were presented as part of that case to show that this has been happening to public figures like me. So I think, in some ways, even the government is helpless. Both parties need to prioritize this matter as soon as possible. Right now, I am probably the biggest victim of this, but there are few more, and it will just increase.

Eventually, you will see many random news stories or pictures with links sneakily inserted. People click on them and lose money, maybe not lots of money, but perhaps Rs. 5,000 or Rs. 10,000. But it’s a lot of money for any normal person.

Many people are losing money, and people like us are losing our name and reputation. I feel, It’s just bad governance and moderation from these platforms.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event