Case diary is available. This is second application filed under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. for grant
of bail. The first application was dismissed as withdrawn by order dated

28/8/2018 passed in M.Cr.C. No.32550/2018. The applicant has been arrested on 24/4/2018 in connection with Crime
No.12/2018 registered by Police Station STF, District Gwalior for offence
punishable under Sections 379 , 411 , 120-B , 420 , 408 and 418 of IPC. It is submitted by the counsel for the applicant that according to the
prosecution case, the applicant was working on the post of Station Manager.
A complaint was filed on behalf of M/s Amazon Transportation Services
Private Ltd. on the allegation that the complainant operates an online
marketplace and allows its buyers and sellers to purchase and sell items in

different categories. Expansive distribution network system with various
processes have been set up. Recently, a fraud and theft has been detected, as
a result of which, the Company and its Associates have suffered the loss of
Rs.1,08,58,003/-. It is submitted that the applicant was working as a Station
Manager, whereas goods, which are purchased online, were to be distributed
by his Team Manager and the Delivery Boys, therefore, the applicant alone
cannot be held liable for the loss sustained by the Company. The applicant is
in jail from 24/4/2018 and the trial is likely to take sufficiently long time and
there is no possibility of his absconding or tampering with the prosecution
case. Per contra, the application is opposed by the counsel for the
respondent/State. It is submitted by the counsel for the State that a complaint
was made by M/s Amazon Transportation Services Private Ltd. It was
 2 MCRC-38814-2018
alleged that after receiving the orders from customers, shipments are departed
from Delhi and the scheduled timings for departure from Delhi was 11:30 PM
and arrival at Gwalior was 6 AM. During the stipulated departure, 90 losses
have occurred when two specific vehicles were driven by Shahnawaj and
Dilbagh Singh. The Company had conducted an investigation, in which it was

found that it is a case of transit theft between Delhi to Gwalior and upon
arrival of vehicle at Gwalior, certain shipments were marked as missing,
whereas the Associates at Delhi depart a load/consignment through dedicated
vehicles to Gwalior. It is submitted that it was found that after receiving the
goods from the company, the applicant alongwith other co-accused persons
used to remove the goods from the sealed packets and ultimately they were
shown to be missing. The goods, so stolen from the packets of the company,
were later on sold in the open market at much lower price. It is submitted that
being the Station Manager, the applicant was under an obligation to keep
watch over the activities of his employees. A huge loss has occurred to the
Company and it appears that in spite of the procedure adopted by the
company of publishing the quantities of inflow of products in every week,
wherein the loss are reflected, the applicant did not react to the unprecedented
losses, which were being caused to the Company. Even otherwise, from the
possession of the applicant various mobile phones have been seized. Being
the Station Manager, it was the duty of the applicant to protect the interest of
the Company. So far as the other accused persons are concerned, their cases
are distinguishable. They were the Delivery Boys. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case as well as the
extent of loss caused to the Company and the fact that the applicant was the
head of the Station being the Station Manager and it was his duty to maintain
the affairs of the Company and within a short span of period huge loss of
Rs.1,08,58,003/- has been caused to the Company by showing that the
products are missing as well as recovery of various mobile phones from the
possession of the applicant, this Court is of the considered opinion that it is
 3 MCRC-38814-2018
not a fit case for grant of bail. The application is, accordingly, rejected. (G.S. AHLUWALIA)
 JUDGE
Arun* Digitally signed by ARUN KUMAR MISHRA Date: 2018.10.03 17:18:35 +05'30'