?If There’s One Story To Read Today

When India’s cybersecurity agency came out with the cybersecurity directions last April, we did over 20 stories on them in just two months. Not because we were fans of the directions, but rather because there was so much criticism to point out.

We called the new directions a joke and we had people flat out tell us that no one is going to comply with these directions and there’s nothing CERT-In (the body that issued the directions) can do about it. Turns out these people were right.

Based on an RTI request we filed, we learnt two things:

To what extent does a user need to be identified? Can user verification processes prevent scams? How can we protect our sensitive data while undergoing government verification? We will be raising and discussing these, and more such questions, at our hybrid roundtable on ‘Exploring User Verification’ at The Claridges in New Delhi on March 23 , 2023. Want to join? Register here . Need to know more? Read here .

FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION

Not so free as a bird: Tossing free speech rights out of the window, Twitter has withheld accounts of journalists, politicians, writers, and advocates writing about the ongoing internet shutdown in the Indian state of Punjab. The company is currently in a legal standoff with the Indian government over the issue of content blocking orders. Is it now taking it easy when it comes to protecting users’ freedom of speech on its platform? [ Read ?, 4 minutes ]

DIGITISATION OF HEALTH

Officially, not compulsory: India’s Health Ministry is running a pilot project to collect and track immunisation data of pregnant women and new-born babies through a central portal called U-WIN. All this, without even issuing a public notice about the objectives of the project and informing people whether it’s voluntary or not. We filed an RTI to know what’s going on with U-WIN and, as usual, all we got were answers that left us wanting for more. Check out what the ministry had to say. [ Read ?, 2.5 minutes ]

PLATFORM REGULATION

To act or not to act : That really was the question before the Delhi High Court a few weeks ago. A manufacturer alleged that knockoffs of their trademarked car covers were being sold on Flipkart—and that the e-commerce major had violated India’s IT laws by not taking “action” against them. The Court thought otherwise, observing that Flipkart wasn’t really obliged to take action in the first place. All we can think of is this: the ruling unexpectedly shines a light on how companies should comply with an often murky set of IT rules. [ Read ?, 4 minutes ]

CRYPTO REGULATION

Crypto exchanges get the ball rolling: A move to bring crypto exchanges under India’s money laundering laws has led to the registration of two major crypto exchanges with the Indian (Financial Intelligence Unit) FIU. It is likely to be a good move because it brings exchanges under some sort of a regulated framework that will assure investors. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

RIGHT TO INFORMATION

RTI filing sans sweat: The Indian Supreme Court has ordered all High Courts to establish online RTI portals within 3 months, if they have not already done so. The decision was made in response to a plea seeking an online portal for filing RTI applications and first appeals in High Courts. Presently, persons seeking RTI from High Courts or subordinate judiciary have to make physical applications, making it an especially cumbersome process for NRIs, the petitioner pointed out. [ Read , 1.5 minutes]

? Tech Policy from Around the World

Google denies destroying ‘chat’ evidence in U.S. antitrust lawsuit [ Read ] (Mike Scarcella/Reuters)

All Social Media Platforms Have TikTok-Like Risks, Transparency Group Says [ Read ] (Anna Edgerton/Bloomberg)

Microsoft plans mobile games app store to rival Apple and Google [ Read ] (Tim Bradshaw/Financial Times)

Cryptoverse: Bitcoin passes the bank stress test [ Read ] (Lisa Pauline Mattackal and Medha Singh/Reuters)

Content moderators sue Meta over alleged ‘union-busting’ in Kenya [ Read ] (Reuters)

Facebook political microtargeting at center of GDPR complaints in Germany [ Read ] (Natasha Lomas/Tech Crunch)

TikTok Chief Executive Shou Zi Chew to Face Skeptical Lawmakers [ Read ] (John D. McKinnon/The Wall Street Journal)

Book publishers with surging profits struggle to prove Internet Archive hurt sales [ Read ] (Ashley Belanger/Ars Technica)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event