The present application is filed under Section 482 of

Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 seeking anticipatory

bail. 2. Brief facts of the case are as under: 3. The petitioner is A.3 in Crime No.429 of 2024 on the file of

Nandigama Police Station, NTR Commissionerate filed for the

offences under Sections 192,196, 336(4), 340(2), 353(2), 61(2),

111(2)(b) read with 3(5) of BNS and Section 67 of Information

Technology Act, 2000. 4. A complaint was lodged on 23.11.2024 by one Darelli Rajiv

Gandhi against the Petitioner and in the complaint it is alleged

that Kanne Kanti Sajjana Rao, Karimullah, Sakshi news reporter

Suguna Sekhar Rao and some others have morphed the photos

of the present elected Constitutional functionaries with a

malicious intent to discredit and bring disrepute to them. It was

also stated in the complaint that misinformation is being spread

about the Government and its schemes and that the Petitioner 3 and others had posted news and photos in various social media

platforms such as Garuda Netra, WatsApp, K.C.L., GK News,

N.Times, NTR News, Voice of Public and Surya Daily etc., to

defame them and create conflicts among the parties. It is also

stated that the clippings and paper cuttings were enclosed with

the complaint. 5. From the narration of facts, there is no certainty as to which

specific post is being referred to and how it is derogatory or

defamatory is also not mentioned. A reading of the complaint

reflects absolute vagueness. 6. The Petitioner is arrayed as accused on the basis of

confessions made by the co-accused i.e. persons in whose

names the social media accounts were registered. The common

thread of allegations against the Petitioner is that the Petitioner is

in-charge of the social media of YSRCP and that the

derogatory/abusive posts were made by the social media account

holders at the instance of the Petitioner. 7. The offences under which the Petitioner was charged

barring Section 111 of the BNS, carry maximum sentence of

seven (7) years imprisonment and by default would be entitled to 4 notice under Section 35(3) of the BNSS,, which is in pari materia

of Section 41A of Cr.P.C. as specified by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and another1. 8. As noted above, the only bar for issuing notice under Section 35 of the BNSS is Section 111 of the BNS and the entire

arguments revolved around applicability of the said Section to the

facts of the case. 9. Heard Sri P.Nagendra Reddy, learned counsel for the

Petitioner and Sri M.Lakshmi Narayana, Public Prosecutor for

the Respondents. 10. Contentions: It is the contention of the learned counsel for

the Petitioner that Section 111 of the BNS is not attracted to the

facts of this case since it requires two chargesheets to be

pending in the past 10 years with reference to the offences

specified in Section 111 of the BNS and in the absence of any

such chargesheets, Section 111 of the BNS is not attracted. It is

their contention that Section 111 of the BNS was made applicable

only with an intent to ensure that there is no requirement to follow Section 35 of the BNSS and to settle political scores by arresting 1 (2014) 8 SCC 273 5 the Petitioner. Learned counsel further contended that the

confession of co-accused has extremely poor evidentiary value

and such confessions obtained in custody can never be relied

upon. The learned counsel further argued that many of the

alleged abusive posts were made prior to the onset of the BNS

and therefore Section 111 of the BNS cannot be made applicable

to the case. 11. Learned Public Prosecutor, in response, had produced the

details of the social media posts made by the account holders

and contended that such derogatory posts having been made

solely at the instance of the Petitioner have the effect of

disturbing the harmony in the society. It was further contended

that the confessions made by the account holders/co-accused

were voluntary and they had admitted in detail the role played by

the Petitioner. He also contended that the abusive social media

posts at the instance of rival political party were made by the co-

accused/account holders for remuneration and the same being a

well-oiled network attracts the offence under Section 111 of the

BNS. The learned Public Prosecutor contended that the

organized derogatory posts at the instance of the Petitioner

amounted to 'organized crime'. The learned Public Prosecutor 6 submitted that the abusive social media posts were made prior to

the onset of the BNS and also thereafter and therefore Section

111 of the BNS is applicable to the facts of the case. 12. Learned Public Prosecutor had pointed out that there is no

requirement of two chargesheets against the accused in the

previous 10 years and submitted that filing of complaints would

suffice. He further contended that the evidentiary value of the

confession of co-accused is an aspect for appreciation by the trial

Court. 13. Issue: Having heard the respective counsel, the issue that

falls for consideration in this case is 'whether the Petitioner is

entitled for anticipatory bail at this stage'? 14. Reasoning: Before going into the applicability of Section

111 of the BNS, it would be appropriate to refer to Section 111 of

the BNS so that there is ease in explaining the scope and

applicability of the provision. Section 111 of the BNS reads as

under: Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-section,-- (i)
 "organised crime syndicate" means a group of two or more
 persons who, acting either singly or jointly, as a syndicate
 or gang indulge in any continuing unlawful activity; (ii) "continuing unlawful activity" means an activity
 prohibited by law which is a cognizable offence punishable
 with imprisonment of three years or more, undertaken by
 any person, either singly or jointly, as a member of an
 organised crime syndicate or on behalf of such syndicate in
 respect of which more than one charge-sheets have been
 filed before a competent Court within the preceding period
 of ten years and that Court has taken cognizance of such
 offence, and includes economic offence;; 15. The reason for inclusion of the Petitioner in the crime is the

confession of a co-accused. It is too well known that the

confession of co-accused in custody cannot be said to be

substantive evidence to implicate the Petitioner. Further, the

prosecution could not specify any specific derogatory posts made 8 by the Petitioner which could be termed to be abusive from the

view point of a matured citizen. 16. The second aspect of the issue is that explanation (ii) to

Section 111 of the BNS defining "Continuing unlawful activity" 17. In the absence of any chargesheet at the time of

registration of crime, the registration of offence under Section 111

of the BNS at this stage appears to be not in consonance with the

requirement of law. The High Court of Kerala in the matter of Mohammed Hashim v. State of Kerala2 after referring to the

Judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of State

of Maharashtra v. Shiva Alias Shivaji Ramaji Sonawane and

others3 arising under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime

Act, 1999 (for short ' MCOC' Act ) held that two chargesheets are 2 2014 SCC Online Ker 26557 3 (2015) 14 SCC 272 9 a requirement for registering an offence under Section 111 of the

BNS. Similar view was taken by the Division Bench of this Court

in Pappula Chalama Reddy v. The State of Andhra Pradesh 4

in W.P.No. 26769 of 2024, disposed of on 18.12.2024. 18. The Learned Public Prosecutor had filed a memo in

Crl.P.No.8059 of 2024 vide USR No.12840 of 2025 and as per

the memo, all the crimes registered against the Petitioner in

different Districts across the State in the year 2024 are under

investigation. In the absence of any chargesheet in the preceding

10 years, which is a requirement of Section 111 of the Act, the

registration of crime under that Section prima facie appears to be

unwarranted 19. The reliance by the learned Public Prosecutor on the

Division Bench judgment of High Court of Allahabad in the case

of Jitesh Jha v. State of U.P5 appears to be misplaced. In the

said judgement, the application seeking quash of the crime was

rejected after taking note of the fact that four chargesheets and

cognisance in two cases by the concerned Court are sufficient

compliance to invoke Section 111 of the BNS. The principal 4 2024 SCC online AP 5532 5 2024 SCC Online All 8095 10 argument in that case was that the chargesheets registered prior

to the advent of the BNS cannot be taken into consideration for

invocation of Section 111 of the BNS was rejected. 20. Result: In that view and in order to maintain consistency,

the Criminal Petition is disposed of directing the Station House

Officer concerned to follow the procedure as contemplated under

Section 35(3) of BNSS (Section 41-A of the erstwhile Cr.P.C .)

scrupulously, as per the guidelines enunciated in Arnesh Kumar

v. State of Bihar and another6. As a sequel, the miscellaneous

petitions if any shall stand dismissed. ___________________
 NYAPATHY VIJAY, J
Date:07.05.2025
KLP 6 (2014) 8 SCC 273