1. Rule, returnable forthwith. Mr.Karmakar, learned AGP waives
 service for Respondent No.1-State. Mr.Waghmare, learned Counsel
 waives service for Respondent Nos.2 and 3 - Municipal Corporation
 for Gr.Mumbai. Respondent Nos. 4 to 6 had appeared on the earlier
 occasions however they remained absent on the last two occasions. It
 appears that they are not interested to contest the petition. By
 consent of the appearing parties, heard finally. 2. This petition is filed praying for the following reliefs :- bipin prithiani 3 902-wpl-35549.22.doc

 f. That cost and compensation for expenses incurred till date, of
 the petition also be provided for; g. That such further and other reliefs be granted as may be
 deemed fit and proper in the nature and circumstance of the present
 case." 3. It appears from the record that the building in question has
already been declared to be dilapidated. The building "Mahaprabhu
building" is a Ground + two floor structure. As per the policy of the
respondent-Municipal Corporation (for short 'MCGM'), a notice under Section 353B1 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888 (for
short ' MMC Act ') was issued to the occupants of the building on 18
May 2022. The petitioners who are tenants of the building had
submitted a structural audit report through their Structural Engineer
Shri Mahendra Dhaware, who opined that the building could be
classified as C2-B category i.e. structural repairs without evacuation.
There was also a structural audit report of Shri Rahul B. Mehta,
Structural Consultant of M/s. RPR Archineers LLP submitted by the
owners of the building, who are respondent nos. 4 to 6 in the present
petition. The said report opined that the building is in dilapidated
condition falling in the C-1 category and would be required to be
demolished. Confronted with these two reports, the MCGM referred
the matter to the Technical Advisory Committee (for short 'TAC'). The
TAC in its report dated 7 October 2022, classified the building in the
C-1 category. The conclusion of the TAC needs to be noted which
reads thus:- " CONCLUSION

 In view of the present site condition and precarious nature of
 the building under reference and having gone through the details &

1 Structures Stability Certificate ::: Uploaded on - 25/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 10/06/2023 13:08:06 ::: bipin prithiani 4 902-wpl-35549.22.doc

 opinion given by all the Committee Members and considering the
 age of the building, the Committee is of the opinion that the
 structural audit report submitted by Structural Consultant, Shri
 Rahul B. Mehta (STR/M/152) of M/s,RPR Archineers LLP classifying
 the structure in "C-1" category i.e. "To be evacuated and demolished
 immediately" shall be accepted. Immediate actions are necessary from the Occupants / Owner
 to vacate & prop the building as per the details to be submitted by
 registered Structural Engineer. Failure to prop the building should
 lead to further course of legal action from Designated Officer,
 P/North Ward. Designated Officer, P/North Ward should pursue the
 legal action and shall not stall unless there is order of Competent
 Authority of Competent Court. The decision shall be communicated as per practice by
 Member Secretary. Further course of action, if any, with due process
 and as per policy in force and the standard guidelines of Hon'ble
 High Court shall be followed by Designated Officer & Executive
 Engineer (Building & Factory), P/North Ward." 4. It appears from the report of the TAC that no formal meeting of
the members of the TAC had taken place which is clear from the fact
that the members of the TAC have signed the report on different dates.
It also appears from the report of the TAC that the site has been
inspected on 27 September 2022 at 12:30 a.m. by the TAC members,
along with P/North ward staff. However, there is no report of the site
inspection. 5. What is further interesting is as to what has been stated by the
learned counsel for the respondent-Municipal Corporation in this
context. On instructions, he states that what has been recorded, on
internal page 5 paragraph 2, is itself the report of the site inspection.
We are quite surprised at such contention being urged on behalf of the
Municipal Corporation. It is also quite astonishing that although the
site inspection was undertaken on 27 September 2022, there is no
formal site inspection report and more particularly, a technical report ::: Uploaded on - 25/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 10/06/2023 13:08:06 ::: bipin prithiani 5 902-wpl-35549.22.doc

as would be required to be maintained by the TAC to come to the
conclusion as noted by us above. 6. We accordingly find much substance in the contentions as urged
on behalf of the petitioners that the impugned report of the TAC does
not reflect the correct position and/or the same is vitiated by non-
application of mind. 7. As observed by a coordinate bench of this Court in its order
dated 1 December 2022, the petitioners were permitted to have a
structural audit from experts namely VJTI, Mumbai. The report of the
VJTI is placed on record on behalf of the petitioners, whereby, in a
detailed report the following recommendations are made:- "8.0 RECOMMENDATIONS
 In view of the above conclusions, we feel that few structural
 elements such as slabs and scams of the building have lost their
 strength and hence design load carrying capacity as per he provision
 and requirements of I.S codes. Deterioration of these structural
 elements in the building at few places is severe. By considering
 deteriorated condition of these structural elements, it is necessary to
 carry out the major structural repairs/rehabilitation/strengthening of
 few structural elements immediately. As the load bearing walls are
 good conditions and structural distress are observed at few places in
 slab elements, we are in opinion that this building can be classified
 in C2- A category i.e. carry out major structural repairs by vacating
 the building within six months from the date of issue of this report. It is necessary to appoint the expert structural consultant to
 suggest appropriate structural strengthening and retrofitting
 technique by identifying the deficiency in the structural members
 due to deteriorated condition of the structural elements. After
 structural repair stability certificate shall be obtained from structural
 consultant before occupying the said building." (emphasis supplied) 8. We have also perused the conclusions as contended in the ::: Uploaded on - 25/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 10/06/2023 13:08:06 ::: bipin prithiani 6 902-wpl-35549.22.doc

report. 9. In the aforesaid circumstances, as there is more than one report
on the condition of the building, we are of the opinion that these
reports and materials are required to be re-examined by the TAC and
only after an appropriate examination of the building as mandated by
law, a fresh report be prepared considering all the parameters, and
orders and in accordance with law. 10. We, accordingly, dispose of the petition by the following order:- bipin prithiani 7 902-wpl-35549.22.doc (d) An undertaking to that effect be placed on record of
 this petition within a period of two weeks from today. 15. Writ Petition is disposed in the above terms. No costs.