The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has been evading some key questions about its latest initiatives that aim to tackle Aadhaar-based frauds, which have only increased in the past couple of months. In response to MediaNama’s Right to Information (RTI) request for details about UIDAI’s recent collaboration with the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-Bombay), the authority has not provided answers to any of the questions, citing blanket confidentiality for all.

In April this year, the UIDAI issued a press release announcing its partnership with IIT-Bombay, to develop a touchless biometric capture system for fingerprint authentication. The UIDAI and IIT Bombay will be carrying out joint research to build the mobile capture system with a “liveness model”, which will identify if the fingerprint, or any other biometrics, is that of a real person or a spoofed one.

What we asked: We asked the UIDAI to provide the following:

UIDAI’s response: “ln this regard it is to inform you that information sought cannot be made available to you as it is exempted as per Section 8(1) (d) of the Right to lnformation Act, 2005.”

Section 8(1)(d) exempts any information which relates to commercial and trade secret, intellectual property, and the disclosure of which does not satisfy a larger public interest, from the RTI Act.

Why it matters: While Aadhaar-Enabled Payment System (AePS) frauds have only become easier and have increased in the past two years, the UIDAI has remained unresponsive to such instances and has not issued a single statement detailing the authority’s plans to tackle the problem and safeguard people’s biometric data. With cursory announcements, the UIDAI undertook two initiatives in 2023 to restrict Aadhaar spoofing attempts, both of which lacked details on how will the new system fix the biometric leaks. The unwillingness to provide details even through RTI responses indicates a lack of transparency and accountability in the UIDAI’s way of working.

Not the first time: In February, the UIDAI introduced an AI-based security mechanism, which employs two-layer of two-factor authentication of fingerprints for Aadhaar-based transactions. In response to MediaNama’s RTI query on AePS frauds , the UIDAI stated that the newly introduced AI-based fingerprint authentication mechanism is a measure against the cloning of Aadhaar-linked fingerprints. However, the questions related to the inspection of the nature of these financial frauds and complaints regarding the AePS were left unanswered.

In this case, MediaNama requested non-confidential information or details of the project and a copy of the tender, which is generally a public document. Does that mean there was no tender issued for developing the new system? Moreover, does the UIDAI have no official non-confidential document detailing the objectives of the research project with them?

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event