1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode (physical and virtual
hearing). 2. The present petition has been filed by Ms. Disha Ravi who is stated to
be an environmental activist seeking various reliefs against the Police, the
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (hereinafter Ministry of I&B) and
various news channels in respect of what are allegedly attributed leakage of
her messages and various other investigation material which has been
broadcasted and disseminated by the TV channels at the behest of Delhi
Police. The case of the Petitioner is that she was arrested on 13th February,
2021 in Bangalore and was brought to Delhi. She was sent on police remand
vide order dated 14th February, 2021 by the Duty Magistrate, Patiala House
Courts. 3. She claims that after her arrest during the process of investigation,
various messages, etc. were leaked by the police to the media, resulting in a
large number of programs, news bulletins and online dissemination of
various private messages and interventions which were broadcasted. Some
of the bulletins also made allegations that she is associated with various
illegal and unlawful groups. It is the submission of Mr. Akhil Sibal, ld.
Senior Counsel appearing for the Petitioner that the official Twitter handle
of Delhi Police released various comments about the investigation which is W.P. (C) 2297/2021 Page 2 of 11 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
 SINGH NAYAL
 Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53

going on and these formed the basis of the reports by the News channels. He
also alleged that the Petitioner apprehends that various messages were
leaked by the police to the media. He submits that there are four reliefs that
the Petitioner claims in this writ petition. Firstly, that the alleged WhatsApp
conversation ought to be removed from the public domain and the police
should be directed not to disseminate anything, which is not part of the
public record. Secondly, media houses ought to be directed to comply with
the program code and the advertisement code. Thirdly, the Delhi police
ought not to share the investigation files and lastly that the police ought not
to conduct any press briefings. 4. The ld. Senior Counsel has taken the Court through the various
Twitter messages which have been placed on record. Reliance is placed
upon various judgments in the manner in which TV channels and other
media outlets should exercise responsibility while reporting on an
investigation which is ongoing. The Petitioner is claimed to have issued
various cease and desist notices. However, since the media TV channels did
not exercise any restraint, the present petition has been filed. Finally reliance
is placed upon the office memorandum dated 1st April, 2010 issued by the
Ministry of Home Affairs, which provides the broad guidelines in the
manner in which the investigation and coverage of investigation should be
undertaken. 5. Mr. Raju, ld. ASG appearing for the Delhi Police has at the outset
presented an affidavit on behalf of the Delhi Police. The same has been
sworn by Mr. Anyesh Roy, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) to
the effect that the allegations of the Petitioner that the information or
investigation data has been leaked, is false and is incorrect. A categorical W.P. (C) 2297/2021 Page 3 of 11 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
 SINGH NAYAL
 Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53

statement has been made to the effect that no information or documents
forming part of the case files has been shared by Delhi Police with any
media houses or individual. The only exception to this is press briefings or
broadcasts which are matter of record and are not disputed. He further
submits that there is an attempt by the Petitioner to malign the police and
there could be various other sources from where the leakage could have
taken place. In any event, he assures the Court that the briefings of the Delhi
Police will be in accordance with law. 6. On a query from the Court, Mr. Raju, ld. ASG confirms that the said
office memorandum dated 1st April 2010 is operative even as of today. He
further submits that the present writ petition is nothing but a method to
exercise pressure on the investigation agencies by maligning them and an
attempt to hamper the investigation. 7. Mr. Chetan Sharma, ASG appearing for the Ministry of I&B submits
that the Ministry is the nodal body for enforcing the program code and
advertisement code and under the Cable Televisions Networks (Regulation)
Act, 1995 and its Rules. The said Ministry has constituted an inter-
Ministerial Committee which is headed by the Additional Secretary, I&B to
look into in any complaints which may be received. As on date No
complaints have been received. He also challenges the maintainability of the
writ petition. 8. On behalf of News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA), Ms.
Nisha Bhambani, ld. counsel submits that at the outset, the NBSA has no
jurisdiction over tweets or internet articles. It is the authority working under
the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) and has nine Members and is
headed by a retired Supreme Court Judge. She submits that no complaint has W.P. (C) 2297/2021 Page 4 of 11 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
 SINGH NAYAL
 Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53

been received by the NBSA till date and if any complaint is received, the
same shall be considered in accordance with the code of conduct applicable
to the Members of the NBA. Ld. counsel further confirms that the three TV
channels which are impleaded in the present petition are Members of the
NBA. 9. Mr. Mrinal Bharti, ld counsel on behalf of News 18, submits that he
wishes to take instructions in the matter as he has been served with the paper
book just a few hours ago. He wishes to verify the various broadcasts and
submits that his channel would go by the broadcasts and justifies the same as
the same are not violative in any manner. 10. On behalf of India Today - Mr. Hrishikesh Baruah, ld. counsel
submits that the only publication which is complained of is an online article
and does not relate to India Today TV channels. In any event, he submits
that the Petitioner herself does not seems to be alleging that the WhatsApp
messages are false or incorrect and cannot be attributable to her. If that is the
position, the broadcasting of the WhatsApp messages which are correct
cannot be complained of. Reliance is placed upon the judgment of the
Supreme Court in Central Public Information Officer, Supreme Court Of
India vs Subhash Chandra Agarwal 2020 5 SCC 481 and the judgment of
the Queens Bench in Douglas and Others v. Hello! Ltd [2001] QB 967. 11. Mr. Kunal Tandon, ld. counsel appearing for Times Now places four
submissions for consideration i.e. firstly, that all the information is in public
domain and he has not had the opportunity to view the videos which has
been shared with the Court. He further submits that in any event considering
the tweets which have been posted by the Delhi Police, the broadcast of the
said tweets or any other news relating to the investigation of the Petitioner W.P. (C) 2297/2021 Page 5 of 11 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
 SINGH NAYAL
 Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53

cannot be objectionable. He submits that the right of privacy of the
Petitioner would be restricted only by public interest which has to be
`overwhelming' as per the judgment of the Supreme Court in K.S.
Puttaswamy and Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. , 2017 (10) SCC 1. If the
Petitioner wishes to enforce her remedies in terms of the Cable Televisions
Networks (Regulation) Act and Rules, she has the remedy to do so. Since
the Government has not refused to entertain the Petitioner's complaint as the
Petitioner has not approached the Government, the maintainability of the
petition is challenged. 12. In rejoinder, it is submitted that the difference between `Public
records' and records in public domain has to be maintained. The fact that the
WhatsApp messages may be in public domain, does not make them a part of
the public record. The Petitioner having been arrested, the entire leakage has
happened at the instance of Respondent No.1. Since the office memorandum
respects the privacy of undertrials, the same should be abided by. 13. Heard ld. counsels for the parties. The present petition raises issues of
public importance. There are three aspects to the present case. Firstly, the
privacy, dignity of the individual concerned as also her right to fair trial.
The second aspect would be the sovereignty/integrity of the country and
whether there could be reasonable restrictions that could be imposed
considering the nature of the investigation that is currently taking place. The
third aspect would be the right to free speech and the right of the public to
know. Repeated judgments of various courts including the Supreme Court of
our country have laid down broad principles and guidelines in order to
ensure that a correct balance is struck. 14. Needless to add that in order to adjudicate the issues which have W.P. (C) 2297/2021 Page 6 of 11 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
 SINGH NAYAL
 Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53

arisen in the present petition, a detailed hearing would be required, inasmuch
as a number of Respondents have not an opportunity to respond to the
allegations made in the petition as also peruse the material that has been
handed over to the Court today. Thus, time would have to be granted to the
Respondents to file a reply to the application for interim relief. 15. However, the question at this stage is whether the present state of
affairs ought to continue. This Court has had the opportunity to view the
videos, which have been placed on record of News18 and several other
materials, which have been revealed from the record including the tweets by
of Delhi Police and other publications which are online. There is no doubt
that the regulation of content in print and electronic media has been a very
contested issue across the world and India is no exception to that. The
reasons for the same are not far to seek in as much as content regulation is
viewed as being directly affrontive to the Right of free speech. However,
while a journalist cannot be asked to reveal the source, it would have to be
ensured that the source ought to be a verified and authentic source and the
content ought not to be merely speculative or conjectural. Content also
ought not to be offensive, scandalising and to the extent possible should be
factual in nature. 16. In the present case, the affidavit, which has been placed on record by
the Delhi Police reads as under: 17. Thus, the Delhi Police has taken an unequivocal position that they are
not responsible for leaking the messages or the investigation material to the
media houses. The media houses, however, both in the online articles as
also in the videos claim to the contrary. This would require a little more
detailed examination in the present case and replies to be called from the TV
channels. 18. The question that arises is what should be the ad interim directions
that ought to be passed, if any, in order to ensure that all the three aspects -
the Petitioner's privacy, dignity and right of fair trial - the sovereignty and
integrity of the country - & the right to free speech are equally protected and
balanced. The various cases which are placed on record have laid down
two principles which are clear that the right of the individual has always to
be balanced with the right of the public and the public interest which is W.P. (C) 2297/2021 Page 8 of 11 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
 SINGH NAYAL
 Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53

involved. 19. The print and electronic media plays a very important role in ensuring
that there is no sensationalism and that they adhere to responsible
journalism. Recent coverage by the media definitely shows that there is
sensationalism. While police briefings and the happenings in Court
proceedings etc. can also be broadcasted and disseminated, leaked
investigation material ought not to be disseminated so as to prejudice the
investigation. 20. Accordingly, without making any further observations, on the various
issues which have been raised and would be adjudicated in the present
petition, the following directions are issued: The channel editors shall ensure that the channels exercise
 proper editorial control so that the Petitioner's investigation is
 not hampered, in any manner. (iv) If the charge-sheet is filed in the meantime and the same is
 made public, once the investigation reaches some conclusion,
 dissemination of the contents of the charge-sheet would not be
 interdicted in any manner. (v) Since there is an allegation that persons who sympathise with
 the Petitioner's cause are attempting to malign the police and
 investigation authorities, Mr. Akhil Sibal, ld. Senior Counsel
 while denying the allegation, assures that the Petitioner or any
 other person directly associated with her do not intend to
 indulge in any kind of maligning of the police or the
 investigating authorities. This assurance is accepted by the
 Court. (vi) The question of removal of content, which is already in public
 domain shall be considered with the hearing of the stay
 application at a later stage. 21. All parties and the media in general shall adhere to the above
directions. The NBSA to communicate these directions to all its members.
For the sake of ready reference of all stakeholders, a copy of the Office
Memorandum dated 1st April 2010 is appended as Appendix A to this order. 22. Reply to the stay application or the writ petition, be filed within one
week. Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed within one week thereafter. List W.P. (C) 2297/2021 Page 10 of 11 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
 SINGH NAYAL
 Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53

the matter for further hearing on 17th March, 2021. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE

FEBRUARY 19, 2021/dk/Rahul/T/Radha W.P. (C) 2297/2021 Page 11 of 11 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
SINGH NAYAL
Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53
 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
SINGH NAYAL
Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53
 Digitally Signed By:DINESH
SINGH NAYAL
Signing Date:19.02.2021 17:23:53