YASHWANT VARMA, J. 1. These three writ petitions impugn the order dated 26 March
 2020 of the Authority for Advanced Rulings1 pursuant to which
 three applications numbered as AAR Nos. 04/2019, 05/2019 and
 07/2019 have come to be dismissed with the AAR holding that the
 transaction in respect of which the ruling was sought was prima facie
 designed for the avoidance of tax and thus falling within the scope of
 clause (iii) of the Proviso to Section 245R(2) of the Income Tax Act,
 19612. In view of the aforesaid, the AAR held that it was not obliged
 to render any findings on the merits of the question which stood
 posited, namely of whether the petitioner was entitled to avail the 1 AAR 2 Act Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 4 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 benefits of the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement3 between India
 and Mauritius in respect of the sale of shares of Flipkart Private
 Limited, a private company limited by shares and incorporated under
 the laws of Singapore [hereinafter to be referred to as ―Flipkart
 Singapore‖] and the question of taxability of capital gains connected
 therewith. 2. It would appear that the petitioner had essentially sought to
 derive benefit from Article 13(3A) of the India-Mauritius DTAA and
 which had subjected to tax capital gains arising from an alienation of
 shares acquired on or after 01 April 2017. The petitioner had
 principally urged that Paragraph 3A of Article 13 had thus
 grandfathered all acquisition of shares prior to 01 April 2017 and the
 gains arising from their transfer would thus be exempt from taxation.
 The petitioner had sought exemption from the levy of capital gains tax
 by virtue of it having admittedly acquired the shares of Flipkart
 Singapore prior to 01 April 2017. The AAR has essentially held that
 the petitioners were mere conduit companies and disentitled to claim
 benefits of the DTAA since the transaction lacked commercial
 substance and the establishment of an entity in Mauritius was
 principally aimed at deriving undue benefits under the DTAA. 3. For the sake of brevity, we propose to take note of the salient
 facts as they emanate from W.P.(C) 6765/2020 confining them to
 those necessary for answering the challenge which stands laid. B. THE FACTUAL NARRATIVE 4. The petitioner is stated to be a private company limited by
 shares incorporated under the laws of the Mauritius and having its 3 DTAA Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 5 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 principal office in that country. As per the petitioner, it had been set
 up with the primary objective of undertaking investment activities
 with the intention of earning long term capital appreciation and
 investment income. As per the disclosures made in the writ petition,
 the immediate shareholders of the petitioner are also Mauritian
 companies whose shareholders in turn are private equity funds who
 had raised funds from several investors across the globe. According to
 the petitioner, the indirect shareholders of the petitioner consisted of
 almost 500 investors residing in an as many as 30 jurisdictions spread
 across the globe. Tiger Global Management LLC4, a company
 incorporated in terms of the laws of Delaware USA was asserted to be
 the petitioner's Investment Manager and has thus at various places of
 these proceedings also been referred to as the management company. 5. The Investment Manager, TGM LLC, according to the
 petitioners, had not placed any investments with them and it is
 categorically asserted in this regard that neither TGM LLC nor any of
 its affiliates have either invested in the petitioner or the private equity
 funds that had indirectly invested with them. The petitioner has been
 granted a Category 1 Global Business License5 and is also a tax
 resident of Mauritius. In evidence of the aforesaid, the petitioners have
 also placed on the record the Tax Residence Certificate6 issued by
 the Mauritius revenue authorities dated 22 June 2018. The activities of
 the petitioner are regulated by the Financial Services Commission7
 of Mauritius. 6. As per the Constitution of the petitioner, the management of the 4 TGM LLC 5 Category 1- GBL 6 TRC 7 FSC Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 6 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 company is vested in its Board of Directors8 and which is in turn
 empowered to delegate such of its powers as it may deem necessary to
 a Director, a Committee of Directors9 or such other professional
 functionaries or persons as may be resolved. The original directors
 who were the signatories of the Charter are stated to be Mr. Moussa
 Taujoo, Mr. Mohammad Akshar Maherally and Mr. Steven D. Boyd. 7. The petitioner was incorporated on 15 June 2011 and has been
 domiciled since then in Mauritius. As per the disclosures made in its
 Audited Financial Statement, its principal shareholders are Tiger
 Global Five Parent Holdings10, Tiger Global Six Parent
 Holdings11, Tiger Global Seven Parent Holdings12, Tiger Global
 Eight Holdings13 and Tiger Global Principals14. All of the above
 entities are stated to be Mauritius based private companies. The
 individual shareholding of the aforenoted entities in the petitioner is
 declared and disclosed in its audited financial reports and the relevant
 part whereof is extracted hereinbelow:- Tiger Global Six Parent Holdings is majority owned by Tiger
 Global Private Investment Partners VI, L.P. a Cayman Islands
 exempted limited partnership. Tiger Global Seven Parent Holdings
 is majority owned by Tiger Global Private Investment Partners VII,
 L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership. Tiger Global
 Eight Holdings is majority owned by Tiger Global Private
 Investment Partners VIII, L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited
 partnership. Tiger Global Management, LLC is the management
 company of Tiger Global Private Investment Partners V, L.P, Tiger
 Global Private Investment Partners VI, L.P., Tiger Global Private
 Investment Partners VII, L.P and Tiger Global Private Investment
 Partners VIII. L.P. Tiger Global Principals is wholly owned by
 Tiger Global Side Fund LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability
 Company. All members of Tiger Global Side Fund, LLC are
 afflicted with Tiger Global Management, LLC.‖ 8. The petitioner acquired 2,36,70,710 shares of Flipkart
 Singapore between October 2011 to April 2015. It is the assertion of
 the petitioner that its shareholding in Flipkart Singapore had been
 acquired between 04 October 2011 and 17 April 2015 and thus
 undisputedly prior to 01 April 2017, the determinative date which
 finds mention in Article 13(3A) of the India-Mauritius DTAA. 9. The aforenoted DTAA was signed and executed originally on
 06 December 1983. The Protocol for Amendment of the India-
 Mauritius DTAA was signed on 10 May 2016 which principally
 sought to introduce the taxation of capital gains arising in India. Thereafter, and by virtue of a notification dated 10 August 2016,
 Paragraphs 3A and 3B came to be inserted in Article 13(3) and were
 ordained to come into effect from 01 April 2017 and thus
 corresponding to Assessment Year15 2018-19. 10. As was noticed hereinabove, it was by virtue of Paragraph (3A)
 and its insertion in Article 13 that the gains from the alienation of
 shares in a company that is a resident of a Contracting State became
 subject to a capital gains tax. Article 13 as it stands post the
 amendments noted above is reproduced hereinbelow:- [3A. Gains from the alienation of shares acquired on or after
 1st April 2017 in a company which is resident of a
 Contracting State may be taxed in that State. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from
 the alienation of any property other than those mentioned
 in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of this article shall be
 taxable only in that State. 3B. However, the tax rate on the gains referred to in
 paragraph 3A of this Article and arising during the period 15 A.Y. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 9 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 beginning on 1st April, 2017 and ending on 31st March,
 2019 shall not exceed 50% of the tax rate applicable on
 such gains in the State of residence of the company whose
 shares are being alienated;] 4. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that
 referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 3A shall be taxable only
 in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.] 5. For the purposes of this article, the term ―alienation‖ means the
 sale, exchange, transfer, or relinquishment of the property or
 the extinguishment of any rights therein or the compulsory
 acquisition thereof under any law in force in the respective
 Contracting States.‖ 11. The Notes to the Financial Statement submitted for the period
 ending on 31 December 2017 acknowledged the amendments in the
 DTAA and declared that capital gains arising on sale of shares
 acquired in an Indian tax resident company between 01 April 2017 to
 31 March 2019 would be subject to tax at the rate of 50% of the
 domestic tax rate, subject to the fulfilment of the Limitation of
 Benefits16 clause in the DTAA. The petitioner further averred in those
 Notes that the capital gains on sale of shares acquired in an Indian tax
 resident company post 31 March 2019 would be taxed in India and the
 capital gains arising out of sale of shares of a foreign company which
 though not a tax resident of India but one whose shares derive their
 value substantially from assets situated in India may not be taxable
 under the DTAA. 12. The Notes to the Financial Statement further took the position
 that the sale of shares in respect of investments made directly or
 indirectly in Indian entities on or after 01 April 2017 would be subject
 to General Anti Avoidance Rules17 under Indian domestic tax laws.
 The relevant section of the Notes to the Financial Statement and which 16 LOB 17 GAAR Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 10 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 deals with taxation is reproduced hereinbelow:- 13. On 09 May 2018, a Share Purchase Agreement18 came to be
 executed between Walmart International Holdings, Inc., a Delaware
 Corporation, which was described as the ‗purchaser' and the 18 SPA Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 12 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 shareholders of Flipkart Singapore, which was identified in Schedule
 I to that agreement and collectively described to be the ‗sellers', and
 Fortis Advisors LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, which
 was described as the ‗sellers' representative'. As per the SPA, the sale
 of the shares held by the petitioner is stated to have been approved by
 the Board in its meeting held on 04 May 2018. The aforesaid subject
 appears to have arisen for discussion in the meeting of 12 June 2018,
 when the Board took note of the offer of Walmart to purchase a
 controlling stake in Flipkart Singapore for USD 16 billion and Tiger
 Global International III Holdings19 [the petitioner in W.P.(C)
 6764/2020], Tiger Global International IV Holdings20 [the
 petitioner in W.P.(C) 6766/2020] and the present petitioner having
 considered to sell 74% of their stake in Flipkart Singapore and close
 that transaction. 14. These facts are also taken note of in the impugned order passed
 by the AAR and which captures details of the shareholding of the
 petitioner, TG III and TG IV as well as the number of shares sold and
 the gross consideration received. The shareholding pattern of the
 petitioner, TG III and TG IV was set forth in a tabular form in the
 impugned order and which is reproduced hereinbelow:- 15. The number of shares sold and gross consideration received was
 additionally captured in the following table:- 16. Thereafter, the petitioner appears to have approached the tax
 authorities on 02 August 2018 for grant of a ‗nil' withholding tax
 certificate in terms as contemplated under Section 197 of the Act. The
 petitioner in this application had asserted that although the shares held
 by it and constituting 13.48% of the share capital of Flipkart
 Singapore derived their value substantially from assets in India, since
 those shares were acquired prior to 01 April 2017, they would not be
 taxable or subjected to a capital gains tax in light of the TRC held by
 the petitioner read along with Article 13 of the DTAA. The petitioner
 with this application also enclosed its Certificate of Incorporation,
 Category 1 GBL, TRC along with Form 10F, a PAN card and a copy
 of the SPA. 17. The aforesaid application came to be disposed of on 17 August
 2018 with the respondent holding that the petitioner would not be
 entitled to the benefits of the DTAA. This was based on the competent
 authority being of the opinion that the petitioner was not independent Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 14 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 in its decision making with regard to various capital assets held by it.
 It was accordingly informed that the certificate under Section 197
 would be issued subject to the payer deducting tax at the rate of 10%
 plus surcharge and applicable cess. The order dated 17 August 2018
 disposing of the Section 197 application is extracted hereinbelow:- Hence, the capital gains shall be taxed as per the Income Tax Act,
 1961 and certificate u/s: 197 shall be issued requiring the payer to
 deduct tax, accordingly at the rate of 10% plus surcharge and
 health and education cess as applicable. In this regard, considering
 the time limit of closure of the transaction, it is requested that your
 reply shall reach this office by way of email/fax within 1 PM
 today, i.e 17.8.2018
 Yours faithfully,

 (M.P. DWIVEDI)
 Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax
 InetrnationaITaxation-4(1)(2),Mumbai‖ 18. It becomes pertinent to note that on 18 August 2018, the
 petitioners transferred their shareholding in Flipkart Singapore to Fit Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 15 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Holdings SARL, a Luxembourg entity. The total number of shares
 forming subject matter of this transaction were 1,47,54,087 and at a
 transaction value of around INR 131,22,02,50,194/-. 19. It is thereafter that the petitioner along with TG III and TG IV
 moved the AAR on 19 February 2019 seeking its opinion on the
 taxability of the transaction in question. Aggrieved by the failure of
 the AAR to dispose of the said application even though the period of
 six months as contemplated under Section 245R(6) had expired, the
 petitioner approached this Court by way of W.P.(C) 12145/2019,
 which came to be disposed of on 19 November 2019 with the
 direction that the AAR would deal with the application moved by the
 petitioners in an expeditious manner and dispose of the same within
 two months. That period came to be extended by a subsequent order of
 the Court dated 24 January 2020. 20. During the course of consideration of the said application, the
 AAR also called for a report from the Commissioner of Income Tax
 (International Taxation)-421. The said authority submitted its report
 on 03 January 2020 and where it opined as follows:- Tiger Global Five Parent Holdings owns 79.3%, Tiger Global Six
 Parent Holdings owns 16.7% and Tiger Global Principals owns
 4.0% of the Company. Tiger Global Five Parent Holdings is
 wholly owned by Tiger Global Private Investment Partners V, L.P.,
 a Cayman Island exempted limited partnership. Tiger Global Six
 Parent Holdings is wholly owned by Tiger Global Private
 Investment Partners VI, L.P., a Cayman Island exempted limited
 partnership. Tiger Global Management, L.L.C. is the management
 company of Tiger Global Private Investment Partners V, L.P. and 21 CIT (International Taxation) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 16 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Tiger Global Private Investment Partners VI, L.P. Tiger Global
 Principals is wholly owned by Tiger Global Side Fund, LLC, a
 Delaware Limited Liability Company. All members of Tiger
 Global Side Fund, LLC are affiliated with Tiger Global
 Management, LLC. 7.4 As per the notes to the financial statement for the year ending
 31.12.2017, The Company is owned by Tiger Global Five Parent
 Holdings, Tiger Global Six Parent Holdings, Tiger Global Seven
 Parent Holdings, Tiger Global Eight Holdings and Tiger Global
 Principals (the "Shareholders"), Mauritius private companies. Tiger
 Global Five Parent Holdings owns 61.5%, Tiger Global Six Parent
 Holdings owns 12.1%, Tiger Global Seven Parent Holdings owns
 14.7%, Tiger Global Eight Holdings owns 8.5%, and Tiger Global
 Principals owns 3.2% of the Company. Tiger Global Five Parent
 Holdings is majority owned by Tiger Global Private Investment
 Partners V, L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership.
 Tiger Global Six Parent Holdings is majority owned by Tiger
 Global Private Investment Partners VI, L.P., a Cayman Islands
 exempted limited partnership. Tiger Global Seven Parent Holdings
 is majority owned by Tiger Global Private Investment Partners VII,
 L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership. Tiger Global
 Eight Holdings is majority owned by Tiger Global Private
 Investment Partners VII, L.P., a Cayman Islands exempted limited
 partnership. Tiger Global Management, LLC is the management
 company of Tiger Global Private Investment Partners V, L.P.,
 Tiger Global Private Investment Partners VI, L. P., Tiger Global
 Private Investment Partners VII, L.P and Tiger Global Private
 Investment Partners VIII, L.P. Tiger Global Principals is wholly
 owned by Tiger Global Side Fund, LLC, a Delaware Limited
 Liability Company. All members of Tiger Global Side Fund, LLC
 are affiliated with Tiger Global Management, LLC.
 7.5 From the date of inception to the financial year ending
 31.12.2017, the applicant is part of Tiger Global Management
 LLC, USA and its affiliates, through a web of entities based out of
 Cayman Islands and Mauritius. 7.6 As per the business plan of the applicant dated 6.6.2011, it is
 stated that the Tiger Global Six Parent Holdings, Mauritius is the
 promoter of the applicant. It has also been stated that the applicant
 is being set up for making investments in India through the
 applicant. It is also stated that the promoter shall provide the
 applicant with funds for making investments in India. As per the Financial Statement for the year ending 31.12.2017, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 17 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 structure of the applicant is as below

 On perusal of the share holding pattern of the applicant, it is
 observed that the applicant is held by Tiger Global Management
 LLC, a Delaware Corporation through a web of entities based out
 of Cayman Islands and Mauritius. It indicates that the real control
 of the company does not lie within Mauritius. xxxx xxxx xxxx
 10.3 BENEFICIAL OWNER OF THE SHARES: The applicant, in its application for Category 1 Global Business
 License has not mentioned any beneficial owner of the Shares of the
 holding company. However, it is pertinent to note that in the case
 of Tiger Global International III holdings, which has applied
 for the lower/NIL deduction certificate before the Dy. CIT-IT-
 4(1), has submitted in the one of the document, that Mr.
 Charles P Coleman as the Beneficial Owner of the Tiger Global
 Six Parent Holdings, which is the promoter company in the case
 of the applicant. Therefore, from the documents submitted by
 the applicant, it is appears that Mr. Charles P Coleman is the
 beneficiary owner of the shares and it can be said that the real Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 18 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 control does not lie with the directors based out of Mauritius
 but the directors based out of mauritius appear to be just name
 lenders. On perusal of the financial statements of the applicant, it is
 observed that the applicant does not have any income from the date
 of inception and the sources of fund for the investment in Flipkart
 Private Limited has been from the entities based out of Mauritius,
 which are controlled by entities based out of Cayman Islands and
 ultimately controlled by Tiger Global Management, LLC, USA. 10.8 On analysis of the financial statements of the applicant, it is
 found that the initial source of investment and subsequent sources
 of investment in Flipkart P Ltd have been capital contributions from
 the shareholders. The applicant has no income of its own and the
 sources of fund for investment and expenses are capital
 contributions from the entities based out of Mauritius, which are
 held by entities based out of Cayman Islands and ultimately
 controlled by the entity, Tiger Global Management LLC, USA. The
 source of investment and instructions for a specified amounts
 given by a person, ie. Mr. Charles P Coleman, who is not in the
 board of directors and the top executives of the Tiger Global
 management LLC, i.e. Justin Horan present in the minutes of
 the meeting clearly shows that the applicant is only a conduit
 for the investment of US Based Entity, Tiger Global
 Management LLC, through a web of other conduit companies
 based out of Mauritius and Cayman Islands. 10.9 The above facts prima facie indicates that the applicant is not
 acting "INDEPENDENTLY" but as a conduit for the real beneficial
 owners based out the USA. Further, the facts of the case are
 squarely covered by the observations made by the Hon'ble AAR
 in its ruling in the case of AB Mauritius in AAR No, 1128 of
 2011 dated 8.11.2017. Therefore, considering the above facts and
 the ruling of the AAR and also the judgement of the Hon'ble HC of
 Bombay in the case of Aditya Birla Nuvo Limited Vs DDIT(2012)
 342 ITR 0308, the treaty benefits of the india- Mauritius DTAA are
 not available to the applicant, the ultimate beneficiary of the shares
 of Indian Company is Tiger Global Management LLC, a company
 incorporated in the United States of America. Hence the applicant
 can not be provided any benefit under the Treaty of India- Mauritius
 DAA due to the fact that prima facie the said transaction appears to
 be designed for avoidance of tax.‖ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 19 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 21. Seeking to controvert the various adverse comments appearing
 in the report of the CIT (International Taxation), the petitioner
 submitted its response dated 16 January 2020 before the AAR. The
 chronology of events leading up to the acquisition and sale of Flipkart
 shares was disclosed as under:- Date Particulars

 15.06.2011. Date of incorporation of the Applicant

 17.06.2011 GBL-1 granted to the Applicant

 19.10.2011 Shares of Singapore Co acquired by the Applicant - over time
 17.04.2005

 09.05.2018 Pursuant to a Share Purchase Agreement by and
 among Wai-Mart International Holdings Inc, the
 Shareholders of Singapore Co, Fortis Advisors LLC,
 and Walmart Inc, the Applicant agreed to sell
 14,754,087 shares of Singapore Co to the Buyer for a
 total consideration of USD

 02.08.2018 The Applicant approached the tax authorities for a
 certificate of nil withholding under section 197 of the
 Act, in relation to the Transfer seeking a certification
 of nil withholding prior to consummation of the
 transaction. 17.08.2018 The tax authorities issued a letter informing the
 Applicant that it would not be permitted to avail
 benefits under the India - Mauritius DTAA, on the
 basis that the ―control over the decision making over
 the purchase and sale of‖ shares did not lie with the
 Applicant. Subsequently, on the same day, the tax authorities
 issued the 197 Certificate directing the Buyer to
 withhold tax at rates which vary from 6.05%
 (exclusive of surcharge and cess) on the consideration
 payable to the Petitioner in respect of the Transfer. 18.08.2018 Sale of shares to the Buyer (Transfer Date) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 20 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 19.02.2019 Date of filing the present Application. 22. While controverting the allegation that the transaction was
 prima facie designed for avoidance of tax, the petitioners asserted as
 follows:- The finding under clause (iii) of the proviso to section 245R(2) has
 to be made based on the evidence and material available on record
 in the case at hand, and not with reference to the facts relating to
 some other entity. (iii) For the bar under clause (iii) of the proviso to be attracted, it
 must be shown that the transaction was 'designed' specifically for
 tax avoidance which is apparent prima facie i.e., with a
 premediated object of tax avoidance that is evident from the record.
 The CIT has not identified or proved even a single fact that
 contradicts the assertions made in the Application or establishes
 even a single element of artificiality in the transaction undertaken
 by the Applicant. (iv) The transaction entered into by the Applicant is commercially
 driven and has been undertaken within the four corners of the law.
 In such circumstances, Courts including the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court and this Hon'ble Authority have held that a transaction of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 23 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 this nature is legal and permissible and is neither illegal or
 improper. (v) The Applicant's claim for exemption from tax is predicated
 solely on the allocation of tax to Mauritius under the provisions of
 the Mauritius Treaty. It is settled law that in such circumstances,
 clause (iii) of the proviso to section 245R(2) is not attracted.‖ 23. Subsequent to the submission of the aforesaid replies, written
 submissions appear to have been tendered by respective sides and
 whereafter the impugned order came to be passed by the AAR. C. IMPUGNED ORDER- SALIENT FINDINGS 24. Proceeding firstly to deal with the explanation which was
 proffered by the petitioner of the transaction being restricted to a mere
 transfer of shares, the AAR in the impugned order observes: 25. It proceeded further to find that apart from Mr. Charles P
 Coleman, who was, according to it, representing TGM LLC on the
 Board, all other members were ―mere puppets‖. This becomes evident
 from a reading of paragraph 36, which is extracted hereinbelow: 26. The AAR then proceeded to examine the question of the situs of
 control and management of the writ petitioners. It ultimately came to
 hold against them principally on account of the signing authority
 which stood conferred on Mr. Coleman as would be evident from a
 reading of the following passages forming part of the impugned order: Further clause 30.2 of the said document stipulated that all cheques
 or orders for payment shall be signed by any two directors or by
 such other person or persons as the directors may from time to time
 appoint. Thus, the cheques were required to be signed by two
 directors or such other persons as appointed by the Board of
 Directors. The applicants have submitted that there was nothing
 wrong with Mr. Charles P. Coleman being appointed by the Board
 of Directors as signatory of cheques above a particular limit.
 Apparently, the argument of the applicants may seem logical.
 However, as the principal bank account of the applicants was
 maintained in Mauritius, it would have made sense if a local person
 based in Mauritius was appointed to sign the cheques on behalf of
 the Directors. The applicants have not explained as to why Mr.
 Charles P. Coleman, who was not based in Mauritius was
 appointed to sign the cheques of Mauritius bank account. In this
 regard it is relevant to consider that Mr. Charles P. Coleman was
 the beneficial owner as disclosed by the applicants in the
 application form for Category "I" Global Business Licence filed
 with Mauritius Financial Services Commission. Mr. Coleman was
 also the authorized signatory for the immediate parent company of
 the applicants viz. Tiger Global Five Percent Holdings and Tiger
 Global Six Percent Holdings and was also the sole Director of
 ultimate holding company Tiger Global PIP Management V
 Limited and Tiger Global PIP Management VI Limited. In view of
 these facts the appointment of Mr. Charles P. Coleman as
 authorized signatory of bank cheques above a limit can't be
 considered as a mere coincidence. 39. The applicants have contended that authorization to certain
 person to operate its bank account doesn't ipso facto mean that the
 applicants had no control over its funds. It must be considered that
 authorization given by the applicants to operate its bank account
 was not to certain person but to Mr. Charles P. Coleman, whose
 influence over the group has been described in the preceding para.
 Mr. Charles P. Coleman and another authorized signatory Mr. Anil
 Castro, though being not on the Board of Directors of the
 applicants, were the key personnel of the Group and were
 managing and controlling the affairs of the entire organization Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 26 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 structure. From the evidences brought on record by the Revenue, it
 is evident that the funds of the applicants were ultimately
 controlled by Mr. Charles P. Coleman and the applicants had only a
 limited control over their fund. Apparently, the decision for
 investment or sale was taken by the Board of Directors of the
 applicants but the real control over the decision of any transaction
 over USD 2,50,000 was exercised by Mr. Charles P. Coleman only.
 Obviously, he was controlling the decision of the Board of
 Directors of the applicants through the non-resident Director Mr.
 Steven Boyd who was accountable to him. We have, therefore, no
 hesitation to conclude that the head and brain of the companies and
 consequently their control and management was situated not in
 Mauritius but outside in USA.‖ 27. While dealing with the argument of the writ petitioners that
 their holding structure would not be determinative of whether the
 transaction was designed to avoid tax, the AAR observed as follows: 28. The AAR then proceeded to make the following observations
 with respect to the amendments which were introduced in the DTAA
 and the grandfathering clause comprised in sub-paragraph 3(A) of Article 13 of the said DTAA: 29. In the context of the perceived control and holding pattern of
 the writ petitioners, the AAR held that in light of the decision of the
 Supreme Court in Vodafone International Holdings B.V. v. Union
 of India & Anr.22 , as well as Circular No. 789 dated 13 April 2000
 the Income Tax authorities would be entitled to discard a device
 adopted by an assessee and to proceed to take into consideration the
 essence of the transaction between the parties. Ruling on this aspect 22 [(2012) 6 SCC 613] Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 28 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 the AAR held: 30. In paragraph 44, the AAR distinguished a decision
 rendered by it in the case of Moody's Analytics Inc. USA, In re
 (AAR)23 observing that since that decision pertained to capital
 gains derived from the transfer of shares of an Indian company, it
 was clearly distinguishable. It also chose to explain away its own
 decision in Golden Bella Holdings Ltd. v. Deputy
 Commissioner of Income-tax (International Taxation )-
 2(3)(2)24, as well as Star Television Entertainment Ltd., In re 23 [(2012) 348 ITR 205 (AAR)] 24 ITA 6958/Mum/2017 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 29 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 (AAR)25, on similar grounds. Paragraph 44 of the impugned
 order reads thus: 31. We also deem it apposite to extract paragraphs 47 and 48 of the
 impugned order and which are reproduced hereinbelow: 48. In view of the foregoing, we are of the considered opinion that
 the issue involved in the question raised in the present applications
 was designed prima facie for avoidance of tax. The applicants have 25 [(2010) 321 ITR 1 (AAR)] Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 30 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 contended that shares of the Singapore Company derived their
 value substantially from assets located in India and, therefore, it
 was eligible to take benefit of Article 13 (4) of India - Mauritius
 Treaty. Even if the Singapore Company derived its value from the
 assets located in India, the fact remains that what the applicants had
 transferred was shares of Singapore Company and not that of an
 Indian company. The objective of India-Mauritius DTAA was to
 allow exemption of capital gains on transfer of shares of Indian
 company only and any such exemption on transfer of shares of the
 company not resident in India, was never intended by the legislator.
 Further, as discussed earlier the actual control and management of
 the applicants was not in Mauritius but in USA with Mr. Charles P.
 Coleman, the beneficial owner of the entire group structure.
 Therefore, we have no hesitation to conclude that the entire
 arrangement made by the applicants was with an intention to claim
 benefit under India - Mauritius DTAA, which was not intended by
 the lawmakers, and such an arrangement was nothing but an
 arrangement for avoidance of tax in India. Therefore, the bar under
 clause (iii) to proviso to Section 245R(2) of the Act is found to be
 squarely applicable to the present cases. Accordingly, the
 applications are rejected.‖ 32. As would be evident from a reading of the aforesaid extracts,
 although the AAR accepts that the investments made were in respect
 of Flipkart Singapore, and consequently the immediate investment
 destination being recognized to be Singapore and not India, it
 observed that even if it were to accept the contention of the petitioner
 that the shares of Flipkart derived their value substantially from assets
 located in India, the fact that the transfer was in respect of shares of a
 Singapore company as distinguished from an Indian company, would
 remain unimpacted. The AAR holds that the objective of the DTAA
 was confined to the grant of exemption from capital gains arising from
 the transfer of shares of an Indian company only and that exemption
 on transfer of shares of a company not resident in India was never
 intended or contemplated under the DTAA. 33. It was on an overall consideration of the above, that it
 ultimately came to conclude that the transaction was entered into with Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 31 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 an intent to derive benefits from the DTAA in a manner which was
 never intended by the two contracting States and that consequently
 clause (iii) of the Proviso to Section 245R(2) would be attracted. It
 was on the aforesaid basis that the applications of the present
 petitioner as well as TG III and TG IV came to be rejected. D. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PETITIONERS 34. Appearing for the writ petitioners, Mr. Kaka, learned senior
 counsel submitted that Article 13(4) of the DTAA exempts all
 residents of Mauritius from capital gains tax that may accrue or arise
 in India. It was Mr. Kaka's submission that the term ‗resident' would
 clearly be guided by the CBDT Circulars as well as the concept of
 TRCs' which came to be adopted in the Convention. Mr. Kaka firstly
 drew our attention to CBDT Circular No. 789 dated 13 April 2000 and
 which reads as follows: 35. Mr. Kaka laid emphasis on the Circular itself acknowledging
 that a TRC once issued by the Mauritian authorities would constitute
 sufficient evidence of the status of residence as well as the issue of
 beneficial ownership for the purposes of applying the DTAA. It was
 pointed out that paragraph 3 of the aforesaid Circular, specifically
 alludes to the aforesaid prescription being equally applicable in
 respect of income in the form of capital gains arising from the sale of
 shares. Mr. Kaka pointed out that the CBDT had accordingly clarified
 that Foreign Institutional Investors26 resident in Mauritius would not
 be taxed on income from capital gains arising in India consequent to a
 sale of shares in terms of Article 13(4). 36. It was then submitted by Mr. Kaka that the TRC remains the
 primary and constant requirement for the purposes of claiming treaty
 benefits and that the perceived motives underlying the incorporation
 or establishment of an entity in Mauritius would be wholly irrelevant.
 Mr. Kaka in this regard drew our attention to the following passages
 from the decision of the Supreme Court in Union of India v. Azadi
 Bachao Andolan27 : 37. Learned senior counsel then drew our attention to a Press
 Release dated 01 March 2013 and which was published in the context Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 34 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 of certain amendments which were proposed to Section 90 by virtue of
 Finance Bill, 2013. It becomes pertinent to note that Clause 21 of that
 Bill had proposed the following amendments to Section 90 : 38. Mr. Kaka submitted that a huge furore arose in light of the
 proposed insertion of sub-section (5) in Section 90 and which had
 stipulated that while a TRC would be necessary, it would not be a
 sufficient condition for claiming relief under a DTAA. On account of
 the vociferous objections which were raised with respect to the
 proposed amendments, a Press Release came to be issued on 01 March
 2013 and which carried the clarification tendered by the Finance
 Ministry that Section 90(5) was not intended to be utilized as a tool
 for the Income Tax authorities in India to question the validity of a
 TRC. The Finance Ministry clarified that since that was never the
 intention behind the proposed introduction of sub-section (5) in Section 90 , a TRC produced by a resident of a contracting State would
 be accepted as evidence and that Income Tax authorities would not be
 entitled to ―question‖ or ―go behind‖ the said certificate. It was
 additionally clarified that Circular No. 789 dated 13 April 2000 would Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 35 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 continue to hold the field. 39. The aforenoted Press Release is reproduced hereinbelow: 40. It becomes pertinent to note that proposed sub-section (5) never
 came to be introduced or incorporated in Section 90 thereafter. This
 becomes evident from the amendments which were ultimately adopted Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 36 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 in Section 90 and which are extracted hereinbelow: 41. Insofar as the validity and conclusiveness of a TRC is
 concerned, Mr. Kaka drew our attention to the following pertinent
 observations as rendered by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Serco BPO P. Ltd. v. Authority For Advance Ruling and Ors.28 : 42. Our attention was also drawn to a decision rendered by the
 Bombay High Court in Commissioner of Income-Tax
 (International Taxation)-3 v. JSH (Mauritius) Ltd.29 and where it
 was observed as under: 43. Mr. Kaka also laid emphasis on the following principles which
 came to be enunciated by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Sanofi
 Pasteur Holdings SA v. Department of Revenue & Ors30 . ―118. On no rational interpretive principle is it legitimate to
 consider provisions of article 14(5) as permitting a "see through".
 The provision, on a true, fair and non-manipulative interpretation,
 does not accommodate reckoning of the inherence of control by an
 intermediary/interpositioned joint venture company (ShanH), of the
 affairs, management and assets of its subsidiary (SBL), as
 alienation of shares by or of the control over the affairs,
 management and assets of the subsidiary (SBL), by one or all of the
 distinct participants of the interpositioned joint venture, i.e., by 29 2017 SCC OnLine Bom 8875 30 [(2013) 354 ITR 316 (AP)] Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 38 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 MA/GIMD, who are distinct and French resident corporate entities
 themselves.‖ 44. It was then submitted by Mr. Kaka that the unilateral
 amendments which came to be introduced in Section 9 by virtue of Finance Act, 2012 , and which incorporated principles of indirect
 transfer tax, cannot be interpreted or enforced so as to have the effect
 of overriding existing tax treaties. It was Mr. Kaka's submission that
 Parliament itself had not intended those amendments having the effect
 of depriving an assessee of benefits which could otherwise be claimed
 under a DTAA. This, according to Mr. Kaka, would clearly emerge
 from the speech of the Finance Minister made during the debates
 surrounding the Finance Bill, 2012. The relevant extracts of the
 aforenoted speech are reproduced hereinbelow: 45. According to learned senior counsel this principle in any way
 cannot possibly be doubted bearing in mind the following pertinent
 observations which were rendered by this Court in Director of
 Income Tax v. New Skies Satellite BV31 . 2016 SCC OnLine Del 796 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 39 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 ―41. This court is of the view that no amendment to the Act,
 whether retrospective or prospective can be read in a manner so as
 to extend in operation to the terms of an international treaty. In
 other words, a clarificatory or declaratory amendment, much less
 one which may seek to overcome an unwelcome judicial
 interpretation of law, cannot be allowed to have the same
 retroactive effect on an international instrument effected between
 two sovereign states prior to such amendment. In the context of
 international law, while not every attempt to subvert the obligations
 under the treaty is a breach, it is nevertheless a failure to give effect
 to the intended trajectory of the treaty. Employing interpretive
 amendments in domestic law as a means to imply contoured effects
 in the enforcement of treaties is one such attempt, which falls just
 short of a breach, but is nevertheless, in the opinion of this court,
 indefensible. xxxx xxxx xxxx 45. At the very outset, it should be understood that it is not as if the
 double taxation avoidance agreements completely prohibit reliance
 on domestic law. Under these, a reference is made to the domestic
 law of the Contracting States. Article 3(2) of both double taxation
 avoidance agreements state that in the course of application of the
 treaty, any term not defined in the treaty, shall, have the meaning
 which is imputed to it in the laws in force in that State relating to
 the taxes which are the subject of the Convention. xxxx xxxx xxxx
 The treaties therefore, create a bifurcation between those terms,
 which have been defined by them (i.e the concerned treaty), and
 those, which remain undefined. It is in the latter instance that
 domestic law shall mandatorily supply the import to be given to the
 word in question. In the former case however, the words in the
 treaty will be controlled by the definitions of those words in the
 treaty if they are so provided. 46. Though this has been the general rule, much discussion has also
 taken place on whether an interpretation given to a treaty alters
 with a transformation in, or amendments in, domestic law of one of
 the State parties. At any given point, does a reference to the treaty
 point to the law of the Contracting States at the time the treaty was
 concluded, or relate to the law of the States as existing at the time
 of the reference to the treaty ? The former is the "static" approach
 while the latter is called the "ambulatory" approach. One
 opportunity for a State to ease its obligations under a tax
 convention comes from the ambulatory reference to domestic law.
 States seeking to furtively dodge the limitations that such treaties
 impose, sometimes, resort to amending their domestic laws, all the
 while under the protection of the theory of ambulatory reference. It Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 40 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 thereby allows itself an adjustment to broaden the scope of
 circumstances under which it is allowed to tax under a treaty. A
 convenient opportunity sometimes presents itself in the form of
 ambiguous technical formulations in the concerned treaty. States
 attempting to clarify or concretise any one of these meanings,
 (unsurprisingly the one that benefits it) enact domestic legislation
 which subserves such purpose. 47. In this context, recently in Sanofi Pasteur Holding SA v.
 Department of Revenue (2013) 354 ITR 316 (AP), the Andhra
 Pradesh High Court discussed and subscribed to the ratio of the
 Supreme Court of Canada in R. v. Melford Developments Inc. 82
 DTC 6281 (1982) with respect to the applicability of domestic
 amendments to international instruments. In R. v. Melford
 Developments Inc. 82 DTC 6281 (1982), the Canadian Supreme
 Court held that the ambulatory approach is antithetical to treaty
 obligations: 48. In CIT v. Siemens Aktiongesellschaft (2009) 310 ITR 320
 (Bom), the Bombay High Court citing R. v. Melford Developments
 Inc. held that (page 333 of 310 ITR): Every treaty entered into be the Indian State, unless self-executory,
 becomes operative within the State once Parliament passes a law to
 such effect, which governs the relationship between the treaty
 terms and the other laws of the State. It then becomes part of the
 general conspectus of domestic law. Now, if an amendment were to
 be effected to the terms of such treaty, unless the existing
 operationalising domestic law states that such amendments are to
 become automatically applicable, Parliament will have to by either
 a separate law, or through an amendment to the original law, make
 the amendment effective. Similarly, amendments to domestic law
 cannot be read into treaty provisions without amending the treaty
 itself.‖ Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 42 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 46. Learned senior counsel submitted that the aforesaid issue in any
 case has been rendered a quietus in light of the following principles
 propounded by the Supreme Court in Engineering Analysis Centre
 of Excellence Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax and
 Another32 : resident is liable to pay tax as an assessee under the Income Tax
 Act , and not otherwise. This judgment also clarifies, after referring
 to CBDT Circular No. 728 dated 30-10-1995, that the tax deductor
 must take into consideration the effect of the DTAA provisions. (2022) 3 SCC 321 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 43 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 The crucial link, therefore, is that a deduction is to be made only if
 tax is payable by the non-resident assessee, which is underscored
 by this judgment, stating that the charging and machinery
 provisions contained in Sections 9 and 195 of the Income Tax Act
 are interlinked. xxxx xxxx xxxx 156. The DTAAs that have been entered into by India with other
 Contracting States have to be interpreted liberally with a view to
 implement the true intention of the parties. This Court, in Azadi
 Bachao Andolan put it thus: (SCC pp. 44 & 52-53, paras 98 & 130- 31)........................‖ 47. It was then contended that the AAR failed to bear in
 consideration the indubitable fact that the DTAA in question does not
 embody an enabling provision and which may authorize Indian Tax
 authorities to tax an indirect transfer of assets. Mr. Kaka sought to
 highlight instances where tax treaties to which India was a party
 specifically incorporate provisions levying a tax on capital gains
 arising from indirect transfer of assets. 48. Our attention was drawn to the following provisions as
 contained in DTAAs between India and Colombia, Fiji, and
 Indonesia: 49. It was submitted by Mr. Kaka that although the India-Mauritius
 DTAA was renegotiated as late as in 2016 and by which time indirect
 transfer provisions had come to be incorporated in the Act, no
 corresponding or enabling provisions were added. According to
 learned senior counsel, the AAR has thus committed a manifest
 illegality in failing to bear in mind these significant aspects. 50. Mr. Kaka then submitted that the AAR has in effect questioned
 the validity of the TRC produced and has thus incorrectly and illegally
 proceeded to deny it benefits of the DTAA. This, according to learned
 senior counsel, is not only contrary to the CBDT Circulars referred to
 hereinabove, but also in the teeth of what the Supreme Court had held
 in Azadi Bachao Andolan, Vodafone as well as the exposition of the
 legal position by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Serco BPO. 51. Apart from the CBDT Circular No. 789 which has been noticed
 in the preceding parts of this decision, Mr. Kaka also drew our
 attention to the CBDT Circular No. 682 dated 13 March 1994 and
 which is reproduced hereinbelow: 52. Mr. Kaka argued that the AAR in questioning the TRC held by
 the petitioner has ignored precedents which bound that authority itself
 bearing in mind what was held in Moody Analytics, GEA
 Refrigeration Technologies GMBH, In re (AAR)33 and KSPG
 Netherlands Holding B.V., In re (AAR)34. 53. Proceeding then to assail the findings of the AAR in the
 impugned order, that the petitioner, TG III and TG IV constituted
 conduit companies, Mr. Kaka firstly drew our attention to the LOB
 clause as embodied in the DTAA and more particularly Article 27A
 which reads thus: Explanation: The cases of legal entities not having bona fide
 business activities shall be covered by Article 27A(1) of the
 Convention.‖ 54. It was submitted that the writ petitioners clearly qualify
 Paragraph 4 of Article 27A since the expenditure incurred for a period
 of twelve months immediately preceding the date when gains accrued
 qualified the criteria as prescribed. It was pointed out with reference to
 the facts as obtaining in the case of the petitioner that it had incurred
 an expenditure of USD 1,063,709 and the converted expenditure thus
 amounting to approximately MUR 36,436,182. This according to
 learned senior counsel was sufficient to dispel any notion of the
 petitioner, TG III and TG IV being conduit companies. 55. More fundamentally, according to Mr. Kaka, once the DTAA
 itself came to incorporate LOB conditions it would be wholly
 impermissible for taxing authorities of Contracting States to conjure
 up additional grounds of disqualification and which may then be used
 for the purposes of denial of treaty benefits. According to learned
 senior counsel, once the prescriptions of Paragraph 4 of Article 27A
 were met, it was wholly impermissible for AAR to treat the petitioners
 as shell or conduit companies. Mr. Kaka also laid emphasis of the
 deeming fiction which forms part of paragraph 4 and which creates a
 legal fiction in the negative if conditions contained in clauses (a) and (b) are fulfilled. In view of the aforesaid, learned senior counsel
 submitted that the orders impugned are rendered wholly illegal and are
 liable to be quashed. 56. Mr. Kaka additionally submitted that the AAR had adopted a
 wholly erroneous approach when it sought to question and doubt or
 even seek to discover the real motive for incorporation of the
 petitioner in Mauritius, the situs of control and management of the
 petitioner and aspects relating to beneficial ownership. All of the
 above, according to learned senior counsel, were wholly irrelevant to
 the claim of eligibility as raised by the writ petitioners quite apart
 from being contrary to the law as settled by both Azadi Bachao
 Andolan and Vodafone. 57. Without prejudice to the above, and in the alternative Mr. Kaka
 submitted that even if aspects relating to control and management
 were conceded to be relevant, the petitioners on facts had clearly
 established that they were managed and controlled by an independent
 BoD situate in Mauritius. Mr. Kaka sought to highlight the fact that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 50 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 the BoD of the petitioners was comprised of individuals with expertise
 in varied fields and the said Directors governing and managing the
 petitioner in accordance with the charter documents. Our attention was
 drawn to the detailed Board Minutes which came to be drawn in
 respect of as many as 70 meetings which were convened over a 10
 year period. Taking us through those Minutes, Mr. Kaka pointed out
 that they would evidence the BoD of the petitioner having duly
 deliberated and discussed various aspects pertaining to the
 management of the petitioner. It was submitted that the AAR without
 alluding to any specific details has unjustifiably held that the directors
 were ―mere puppets‖. 58. Mr. Kaka also assailed the findings rendered by the AAR with
 respect to the shareholdings of the petitioner and the flow of funds. It
 was submitted that the petitioner as well as TG III and TG IV were all
 set up as pooling vehicles for funds received from investors. It was
 submitted that the petitioners had aggregated funds from more than
 500 investors and who were situate across 30 jurisdictions. Mr. Kaka
 also vehemently contended that the conclusion of the AAR that the
 petitioners' funds were ultimately controlled by Mr. Coleman or that
 the invested funds belonged to the said individual, is factually
 incorrect and contrary to the record. It was submitted that Mr.
 Coleman does not even have a controlling equity interest in the
 petitioner or any of its shareholders quite apart from it being the
 consistent stand of the writ petitioners that TGM LLC neither held
 equity nor had invested in them. 59. It was submitted that the conclusions of the AAR are rendered
 wholly erroneous and unsustainable since they have come to be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 51 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 rendered in complete ignorance of the fact that the funds which the
 petitioner ultimately deployed were obtained from aggregated
 investments received from various investors spread across different
 jurisdictions. 60. It was then submitted that the AAR while adopting a wholly
 erroneous approach has sought to impute principles of beneficial
 ownership ignoring the fact that the said concept is not even adopted
 by Article 13 of the DTAA. It was highlighted that although the
 concept of beneficial ownership finds mention in Articles 10 , 11 and 12A of the DTAA, the same is not adopted in Article 13. Articles 10 ,
 11 and 12A of the DTAA are reproduced hereinbelow: This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in
 respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid. 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2), dividends paid
 by a company which is a resident of Mauritius to a resident of India
 may be taxed in Mauritius and according to the laws of Mauritius,
 as long as dividends paid by companies which are residents of
 Mauritius are allowed as deductible expenses for determining their
 taxable profits. However, the tax charged shall not exceed the rate
 of the Mauritius tax on profit of the company paying the dividends. 4. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 52 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in
 profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is
 subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by
 the laws of the Contracting State of which the company making the
 distribution is a resident. 5. The provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) shall not apply if
 the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of the
 Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State
 of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a
 permanent establishment situated therein or performs in that other
 State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
 therein and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid
 is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or
 fixed base. In such a case, the provisions of article 7 or article 14 ,
 as the case may be, shall apply. 6. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
 derives profits or income from the other Contracting State, that
 other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the
 company, except insofar as such dividends are paid to a resident of
 that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the
 dividends are paid is effectively connected with a permanent
 establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State nor subject
 the company's undistributed profits to a tax on the company's
 undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed
 profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such
 other State. ARTICLE 11 INTEREST 1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of
 the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
 [2. However, subject to provisions of paragraphs 3, 3A and 4 of
 this Article, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting
 State in which it arises, and according to the laws of that State, but
 if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other
 Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 7.5 per cent
 of the gross amount of the interest;] 3. Interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax
 in that State provided it is derived and beneficially owned by : 4. Interest arising in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax
 in that Contracting State to the extent approved by the Government
 of that State if it is derived and beneficially owned by any person
 [other than a person referred to in paragraph (3)] who is a resident
 of the other Contracting State provided that the transaction giving
 rise to the debt-claim has been approved in this regard by the
 Government of the first-mentioned Contracting State. 5. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from
 debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage,
 and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's
 profits, and, in particular, income from Government securities and
 income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes
 attaching to such securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges
 for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
 this article. 6. The provisions of paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) shall not apply
 if the recipient of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting
 State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which
 the interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated
 therein, or performs in that other State independent personal
 services from a fixed base situated therein, and the debt-claim in
 respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with
 such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case, the
 provisions of article 7 or article 14 , as the case may be, shall apply. 7. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the
 payer is that Contracting State itself, apolitical sub-division, a local
 authority or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person
 paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State
 or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment in
 connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is
 paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by that permanent
 establishment, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the
 Contracting State in which the permanent establishment is situated. 8.Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and
 the recipient or between both of them and some other person, the
 amount of the interest paid, having regard to the debt-claim for
 which it is paid, exceeds the amount which would have been
 agreed upon by the payer and the recipient in the absence of such
 relationship, the provisions of this article shall apply only to the
 last-mentioned amount. In that case, the excess part of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 54 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 payments shall remain taxable according to the law of each
 Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of
 this Convention. 1. Fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and
 paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in
 that other State. 2. However, such fees for technical services may also be taxed in
 the Contracting State in which they arise, and according to the
 laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the fees for
 technical services is a resident of the other Contracting State the
 tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of
 the fees for technical services. 3. The term "fees for technical services" as used in the Article
 means payments of any kind, other than those mentioned in Articles
 14 and 15 of this Convention as consideration for managerial or
 technical or consultancy services, including the provision of
 services of technical or other personnel. 4. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply if the
 beneficial owner of the fees for technical services being a resident
 of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting
 State in which the fees for technical services arise, through a
 permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other
 State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
 therein, and the right or property in respect of which the fees for
 technical services are paid is effectively connected with such
 permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions
 of Article 7 or Article 14 , as the case may be, shall apply. 5. Fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a
 Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political
 sub-division, a local authority, or a resident of that State. Where,
 however, the person paying the fees for technical services, whether
 he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting
 State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with
 which the liability to pay the fees for technical services was
 incurred, and such fees for technical services are borne by such
 permanent establishment or fixed base, then such fees for technical
 services shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which
 the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated. 6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer
 and the beneficial owner or between both of them and some other
 person, the amount of the fees for technical services exceeds the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 55 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the
 beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions
 of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In
 such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable
 according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being
 had to the other provisions of this Convention.]‖

 In any case, according to Mr. Kaka, CBDT Circular No. 789 is itself a
 complete answer to the aforesaid conclusion, since once a Mauritius
 resident were to produce a TRC, the test of beneficial ownership
 would be fully satisfied. E. ARGUMENTS OF THE RESPONDENTS 61. Appearing for the respondents, Mr. Srivastava, learned special
 counsel, commenced his submissions by raising the following
 preliminary objections with regard to the maintainability of the
 challenge as mounted. 62. Mr. Srivastava firstly contended that undoubtedly the
 jurisdiction of the AAR stands circumscribed by virtue of the Proviso
 to Section 245R . According to learned counsel, it was thus incumbent
 upon the AAR to evaluate whether the transaction is one which is
 prima facie designed for the avoidance of tax. Bearing the aforesaid in
 mind, Mr. Srivastava contended that the AAR has essentially come to
 form a prima facie opinion on the issue of avoidance of tax which can
 neither be said to be manifestly erroneous or perverse. Mr. Srivastava
 submitted that bearing in mind the principles which inform the
 exercise of power under Article 226 of the Constitution, this Court
 would be justified in refusing to interfere with the ultimate view taken
 by the AAR bearing in mind the fact that the petitioners have failed to
 establish that it suffers from a patent error, procedural irregularity or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 56 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 plagued by errors apparent on the face of the record. 63. It was also Mr. Srivastava's submission that the order of the
 AAR which stands impugned herein is only a preliminary opinion
 formed with respect to avoidance of tax and does not rule on the issue
 of chargeability. According to learned counsel, the AAR has left the
 ultimate decision with respect to exigibility to tax open to be
 examined in any assessment that may be undertaken. In view of the
 aforesaid, it was his submission that since the basic issue of
 chargeability has been left open, no justification exists for this Court
 to exercise its power of judicial review. 64. Proceeding then to the merits of the challenge which stands
 raised, Mr. Srivastava submitted that the writ petition essentially gives
 rise to the following two principal issues:- (a) whether the transaction
 was prima facie designed for tax avoidance and (b) whether the
 income would at all be chargeable to tax in India. Mr. Srivastava
 underscored the fact that the petitioners had undisputedly held shares
 of Flipkart Singapore and which had in turn invested in multiple
 companies in India and consequently the value of those shares being
 substantially derived from assets situate in India. 65. Mr. Srivastava accordingly drew our attention to the following
 chart which according to learned counsel is representative of the
 cooperate structure of the entities forming part of the Tiger Global
 Group35 and which was also taken note of by the AAR in its
 impugned order: 66. It was submitted that the aforesaid holding pattern was never
 disputed by the petitioners and the organizational structure would lead
 one to the inevitable conclusion that TGM LLC was the parent and
 holding company. Mr. Srivastava had additionally placed for our
 consideration paragraph 8.3 of the counter affidavit and which carried
 yet another chart depicting the purported ―interposition‖ of the
 petitioner between Tiger Global Five FK Holdings36 and Flipkart
 Online Services Pvt. Ltd.37, which has been described by learned
 counsel as the ―original natural investor‖ and the ―original natural
 investee‖ respectively. The said chart is accordingly reproduced
 hereinbelow: 67. Learned counsel accordingly submitted that it is the case of the
 respondent that the petitioner, TG III and TG IV were ―mere facades‖
 of the ―US based parent‖, TGM LLC. Learned counsel contended that
 limited partnerships or for that matter legally exempted partnerships
 are by default viewed as flow through entities for the purposes of
 taxation in USA. Viewed in that light, it was his submission that the
 investee companies constitute the ―head and brains‖ of the funds
 which were held by the petitioners. 68. Mr. Srivastava pointed out that Flipkart Online had been
 incorporated in 2008 in India as a start up. Referring us to the counter
 affidavit, it was submitted that Tiger Global Five FK Holdings38
 which was incorporated on 22 October 2009 had originally made 38 TG Five FK Holdings Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 60 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 direct investments through the FDI route in Flipkart Online.
 Significantly, Mr. Srivastava submitted TG Five FK Holdings was
 admitted by the petitioners as an associate when they came to be
 incorporated in 2011. It was then asserted that the petitioner ―created‖
 a private company in the shape of Flipkart Singapore on 04 October
 2011 and which in turn created a wholly owned subsidiary in India
 called Flipkart India Pvt. Ltd.39. In December 2011, Flipkart Online,
 which was a start-up incorporated in 2008 is stated to have sold its
 assets to Flipkart India for a consideration of USD 11 million. 69. Mr. Srivastava pointed out that Flipkart Singapore came to issue
 12,86,560 ordinary shares and 96,15,450 preferred shares to the
 petitioner. It was asserted by the respondents that the aforenoted
 issuance of fresh shares by Flipkart Singapore to the petitioner
 represented the previous ownership of TG Five FK Holdings in
 Flipkart Online. Proceeding further, Mr. Srivastava contended that it
 was only once the petitioners realized the future business potential of
 Flipkart Online that the Mauritius entities came to be incorporated and
 interposed. The submission essentially was that the subsequent
 creation of the petitioner as well as TG III and TG IV was not backed
 by any commercial rationale. 70. According to learned counsel, the interposing of the petitioners
 was solely to avoid the incidence of tax which would have arisen on
 capital gains arising in India at the time of their eventual exit.
 According to learned counsel, it is these facts which led to the AAR
 coming to the prima facie conclusion that the transaction was designed
 to avoid the incidence of tax under the Act. Mr. Srivastava in this 39 Flipkart India Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 61 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 respect drew our attention to the observations rendered by the AAR in
 paragraphs 47 and 48 of the order impugned before us and which have
 been reproduced in the preceding paragraphs of this decision. 71. Proceeding then to address submissions on the issue of ultimate
 control over the petitioner, TG III and TG IV, Mr. Srivastava
 submitted that the Securities and Exchange Commission40 Press
 Release which appears as Annexure R-8 to the counter affidavit
 acknowledges the fact that post the takeover of Flipkart Singapore by
 Walmart, the same would result in 77% stake in that company being
 taken over and the remaining shareholders apart from the original co-
 founders being a few corporate entities including Tiger Global LLC.
 According to Mr. Srivastava, it thus becomes apparent that the
 petitioners held the shares of Flipkart Singapore only on paper, with
 the principal control being with TGM LLC. 72. Mr. Srivastava argued that the fact that TGM LLC controlled all
 major decisions to be taken by the writ petitioners is evident from the
 fact that Mr. Coleman was disclosed as the beneficial owner of the
 shareholding in TG III namely Tiger Global Five FK Parent
 Holdings41. It was contended that Mr. Coleman and other senior
 employees of TGM LLC were also entrusted with control over the
 bank accounts of the petitioners and vested with signing powers. This,
 according to learned counsel, is evident from the indisputable fact that
 the Mauritian Directors could issue instructions to banks and execute
 cheques for a maximum of USD 250,000/- and that too when co-
 signed by either Mr. Coleman or Mr. Anthony Armenio, neither of
 whom were on the BoD of the writ petitioners. SEC 41 TG Five FK Parent Holdings Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 62 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 73. It was further asserted that the writ petitioners have failed to
 show any administrative expenses that they may have borne in the
 course of any activity undertaken in Mauritius and that they also do
 not appear to have engaged any employees. The submission
 essentially was that no substantial expenditure appears to have been
 incurred by the petitioners in Mauritius. It was in the aforesaid
 backdrop that Mr. Srivastava sought to support the ultimate
 conclusion reached by the AAR of the Mauritian Directors being
 ―mere puppets‖. 74. Mr. Srivastava argued that although Mr. Moussa Taujoo, Mr.
 Steven Boyd and Mr. Akshar Maherally were asserted to be Directors,
 the petitioners had failed to place on the record any resolution in terms
 of which those persons may have been appointed. It was also
 highlighted that Mr. Stephen Boyd was in fact the General Counsel of
 TGM LLC. 75. Taking us then through the deliberations of the BoD which
 appear on the record Mr. Srivastava submitted that in most of those
 resolutions, the Board is stated to have merely ―noted‖ or ―ratified‖
 decisions. This, according to learned counsel, would be irrefutable
 evidence of the decision making power being vested in and exercised
 by entities other than the Directors of the petitioners. These aspects,
 according to Mr. Srivastava, are clearly borne out from the Minutes of
 the meetings of the Board which were held on 08 July 2011, 24
 October 2011 and 19 December 2011. Mr. Srivastava specifically laid
 emphasis on item 4 of the meeting held on 24 October 2011 and in
 terms of which the Board is stated to have approved and ratified the
 prior investments as well as those proposed in Flipkart Singapore. 76. According to Mr. Srivastava, the resolution passed by the Board
 in this meeting also acknowledges that the extent of investment and
 funding from each constituent shareholder were aspects which were
 yet to be finalized. Mr. Srivastava sought to also underscore the
 resolutions passed in this meeting and which recorded that the
 Chairman is stated to have advised others of a proposal of additional
 investments being made in Flipkart Singapore. 77. Similar is the position which, according to Mr. Srivastava,
 would emerge from the meeting held on 19 December 2011 and where
 too the Board merely noted the proposed funding and the investments
 contemplated in Flipkart Singapore. According to learned counsel, it
 is thus manifest that the Board of the Mauritius companies never
 resolved or demonstrably took a conscious decision to make
 investments in Flipkart Singapore. Mr. Srivastava contended that the
 decision to invest in the Singapore entity was clearly taken by the
 parent and holding company TGM LLC with the petitioner, TG III
 and TG IV merely taking note of those decisions and of the
 investments proposed to be made. 78. Learned counsel argued that the fact that all previous decisions
 taken in the name of the petitioner, TG III and TG IV were ultimately
 ratified by a single stroke in this meeting is a clear indication of the
 petitioners being bereft of any independent decision making power.
 This, according to learned counsel, is evident from the petitioners
 being totally unaware of the entities which would be ultimately
 providing funds for the proposed investments or the level of their
 individual capital contribution. 79. Insofar as the aspect of management of funds held or standing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 64 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 in the name of the petitioners is concerned, Mr. Srivastava drew our
 attention to the meeting of the Board held on 03 November 2014 and
 where signatories to the bank accounts held with HSBC Bank
 Mauritius Limited came to be altered. Learned counsel submitted that
 in terms of the resolutions passed in this meeting, it becomes apparent
 that Mr. Coleman or Mr. Anil Castro, both of whom were connected
 to TGM LLC, had to necessarily sign off on all cheques and
 instructions. According to learned counsel, the aforesaid resolution
 establishes the complete control that TGM LLC exercised over the
 petitioners. Our attention was then drawn to the meeting of the Board
 held on 13 August 2018 and which records the Board having taken
 note of a proposal for interim dividend being declared in favour of the
 principal shareholders. This, according to Mr. Srivastava, cannot
 possibly be viewed or construed as a decision taken by the Board
 independently. It would in fact, according to learned counsel, be liable
 to be read as the Board dutifully implementing a proposal mooted by
 the parent entity, namely TGM LLC. 80. Similarly, Mr. Srivastava referred to the proposal for refund of
 capital contribution and which is considered under item 2.3. Mr.
 Srivastava argued that although the ultimate transfer of shares in
 Flipkart Singapore took place on 18 August 2018, the aforesaid
 resolution in respect of refund of capital contribution came to be
 passed on 13 August 2018. 81. It was lastly urged by Mr. Srivastava that the petitioners have
 nowhere disclosed the identity of the entity who may have received
 the sale consideration from the transfer of shares in Flipkart Singapore
 which too, according to learned counsel, is an aspect which clearly Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 65 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 merits a more detailed investigation. 82. Proceeding then to the DTAA and the various issues which
 arise in respect of investments in Indian companies rooted through
 Mauritius, Mr. Srivastava submitted that the Supreme Court in Azadi
 Bachao Andolan had clearly held that while treaty shopping may be
 viewed as a permissible tax avoidance measure, it had clearly frowned
 upon colourable devices that may be adopted by unscrupulous parties
 seeking to avoid tax. Mr. Srivastava, in support of the aforenoted
 submission, drew our attention to paragraphs 136 and 148 of the
 report which are extracted hereinbelow:- 83. According to learned counsel, Circular No. 789/2000 dated 13
 April 2000 does not detract from the power of authorities under the
 Act to assess or inquire into a particular transaction. According to
 learned counsel, this would be manifest from the observations of the
 Supreme Court appearing in Vodafone and where their Lordships had
 spoken of the power and the authority of income tax authorities to
 inquire into aspects such as independent status, piercing of the
 corporate veil and adopting the look through approach. 84. Mr. Srivastava relied upon the following passages as appearing
 in Vodafone:- 85. Mr. Srivastava then contended that it would be wholly incorrect
 for the Court to hold that a TRC is conclusive and restrains income tax
 authorities from undertaking any further inquiries where fraud is
 suspected. He sought to draw sustenance for the aforenoted contention
 from the observations appearing in the following paragraphs forming
 part of the decision in Vodafone:- 86. Learned counsel also relied upon paragraphs 74 to 79 of the
 report in Vodafone and which are reproduced hereinbelow:- 75. The common law jurisdictions do invariably impose taxation
 against a corporation based on the legal principle that the
 corporation is "a person" that is separate from its members. It is the
 decision of the House of Lords in Salomon v. Salomon and Co.
 Ltd.,. that opened the door to the formation of a corporate group. If
 a "one man" corporation could be incorporated, then it would
 follow that one corporation could be a subsidiary of another. This
 legal principle is the basis of holding structures. 76. It is a common practice in international law, which is the basis
 of international taxation, for foreign investors to invest in Indian
 companies through an interposed foreign holding or operating
 company, such as a Cayman Islands or Mauritius-based company
 for both tax and business purposes. In doing so, foreign investors
 are able to avoid the lengthy approval and registration processes
 required for a direct transfer (i.e. without a foreign holding or
 operating company) of an equity interest in a foreign invested
 Indian company. However, taxation of such holding structures very
 often gives rise to issues such as double taxation, tax deferrals and
 tax avoidance. 77. In this case, we are concerned with the concept of General
 Anti-Avoidance Rule (GAAR). In this case, we are not concerned
 with treaty shopping but with the anti- avoidance rules. The
 concept of GAAR is not new to India since India already has a
 judicial anti-avoidance rule, like some other jurisdictions. Lack of
 clarity and absence of appropriate provisions in the statute and/or
 in the treaty regarding the circumstances in which judicial anti-
 avoidance rules would apply has generated litigation in India. 78. Holding structures are recognised in corporate as well as tax
 laws. Special purpose vehicles (SPVs) and holding companies have
 a place in legal structures in India, be it in company law, the
 Takeover Code under SEBI or even under the income tax law. 79. When it comes to taxation of a holding structure, at the
 threshold, the burden is on the Revenue to allege and establish
 abuse, in the sense of tax avoidance in the creation and/or use of
 such structure(s). In the application of a judicial anti-avoidance
 rule, the Revenue may invoke the ―substance over form‖ principle
 or ―piercing the corporate veil‖ test only after it is able to establish
 on the basis of the facts and circumstances surrounding the
 transaction that the impugned transaction is a sham or tax avoidant. To give an example, if a structure is used for circular trading or
 round tripping or bribes then such transactions, though having a
 legal form, should be discarded by applying the test of fiscal
 nullity. Similarly, in a case where the Revenue finds that in a
 holding structure an entity which has no commercial/business
 substance has been interposed only to avoid tax then in such cases
 applying the test of fiscal nullity it would be open to the Revenue
 to discard such interpositioning of that entity. However, this has to
 be done at the threshold.‖ 87. Insofar as conclusivity of a TRC is concerned, Mr. Srivastava
 also sought to draw sustenance from the following observations as
 rendered by the Bombay High Court in Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. vs.
 Deputy Director of Income-tax42 : 88. Mr. Srivastava then proceeded to explain the significance of
 various amendments which came to be introduced in the Act by virtue
 of Finance Act, 2012 . According to learned counsel, the statutory
 amendments which came to be introduced by virtue of Finance Act,
 2012 were a direct fallout of the aforenoted decisions. It was pointed
 out that by virtue of those amendments, indirect transfers came to be
 brought within the tax dragnet with the introduction of Explanation 5
 to Section 9 . It was submitted that an amendment of greater import
 was the addition of sub-section (2-A) in Section 90 and which came
 into effect from 01 April 2013. According to Mr. Srivastava, it was in
 order to give effect to the legislative mandate of Section 90 (2-A) that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 72 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Chapter X-A also came to be introduced by Finance Act, 2013 . Mr.
 Srivastava took us in great detail through the various anti-avoidance
 rule principles which form part of Chapter X-A and the Act expounding upon impermissible tax avoidance measures. It was Mr.
 Srivastava's submission that the intent of the legislature providing an
 overriding effect to provisions enshrined in Chapter X-A is evident
 from Section 96 placing a reverse burden of proof upon the assessee
 insofar as Impermissible avoidance arrangements are concerned. Section 96 reads as under:- 89. More importantly, Mr. Srivastava contended that Rule 10U
 which came to be introduced with effect from 01 April 2016 in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 73 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Income Tax Rules 196243, clearly provides added support to the
 contention of the respondents that the provisions of Chapter X-A
 would apply, notwithstanding the grandfathering clause which was
 relied upon by the petitioners. The submission in this respect
 proceeded along the following lines. 90. Mr. Srivastava contended that Rule 10U(2) in unequivocal
 terms declares that the provisions of Chapter X-A would apply to any
 arrangement irrespective of the date on which it may have been
 entered into and in relation to any tax benefit obtained from that
 arrangement on or after 01 April 2017. Since elaborate submissions
 were addressed in the context of the aforesaid Rule, the same is
 reproduced hereinbelow:- 91. Mr. Srivastava submitted that although clause (d) of Rule
 10U(1) would appear to suggest that all income accruing or arising to
 any person from a transfer of investments made before 01 April 2017,
 would not be subject to the inquiry as contemplated under Chapter X-
 A, sub-rule (2) constitutes a ‗without prejudice' clause and which
 would override clause (d). In view of the above, it was the submission
 of Mr. Srivastava that even though an arrangement may have been
 entered into prior to 01 April 2017, any benefit obtained from that
 arrangement on or after 01 April 2017 would be subject to the
 provisions contained in Chapter X-A. To buttress the arguments
 addressed on this score, Mr. Srivastava took us through Sections 97 and 98 and which read as under:- Consequences of impermissible avoidance arrangement 98. (1) If an arrangement is declared to be an impermissible
 avoidance arrangement, then, the consequences, in relation to tax,
 of the arrangement, including denial of tax benefit or a benefit
 under a tax treaty, shall be determined, in such manner as is
 deemed appropriate, in the circumstances of the case, including by
 way of but not limited to the following, namely:- Mauritius DTAA were denied to the applicant. Therefore, On the
 basis of this certificate, Fit Holdings, S.A.R.L. withheld a sum of
 USD 12,50,96,638.52 (Rs.866,91,97,049/- approx.) which
 represents the Long Term Capital Gains on the above sale of shares
 by the Applicant. The reasons for issuing the certificate at above
 mentioned rate have been clearly mentioned by the then AO vide
 his order sheet. The copy of the order sheet maintained is enclosed
 herewith report. In this regard, it is humbly submitted that the
 department has already decided the taxability of the capital gains in
 the hands of the applicant by analysing the facts of the case and
 piercing the corporate veil to identify the beneficial owners of the" Tiger Global Five Parent Holdings owns 79.3%, Tiger Global Six
 Parent Holdings owns 16.7% and Tiger Global Principals owns
 4.0% of the Company. Tiger Global Five Parent Holdings is
 wholly owned by Tiger Global Private Investment Partners V, L.P.,
 a Cayman Island exempted limited partnership. Tiger Global Six
 Parent Holdings is wholly owned by Tiger Global Private
 Investment Partners VI, L.P., a Cayman Island exempted limited
 partnership. Tiger Global Management, L.L.C. is the management
 company of Tiger Global Private Investment Partners V, L.P. and
 Tiger Global Private Investment Partners VI, L.P. Tiger Global
 Principals is wholly owned by Tiger Global Side Fund, LLC, a
 Delaware Limited Liability Company. All members of Tiger
 Global Side Fund, LLC are affiliated with Tiger Global
 Management, LLC.‖ 99. On the aspect of the alleged beneficial ownership of shares, the
 CIT (International Transaction) opined as follows: 100. That report additionally embodied the following observations: 101. The CIT (International Transaction) ultimately came to the
 following conclusions: The petitioners would in any case stand gravely prejudiced if those
 decisions continued to exist and were to be read as having already
 decided all aspects of the impugned transaction. We consequently find
 ourselves unable to sustain the submission of the respondents
 addressed on this score. 107. Before proceeding further, it would be appropriate to outline the
 contentions which were addressed with respect to the underlying
 corporate and holding structure of the petitioner, TG III and TG IV.
 As is evident from a reading of the counter affidavit filed in these
 proceedings as well as the submissions which appear to have been
 addressed before the AAR, the respondents have proceeded on the
 premise that TGM LLC was the controlling entity and the holding
 company. It is this aspect which was also sought to be highlighted by
 Mr. Srivastava who sought to explain the holding structure by
 referring us to the schematic charts which have been extracted
 hereinabove. It is those chart which have also been taken note of by
 the AAR and which additionally held that the same were not disputed. 108. However, we note that right from inception, the petitioners had
 taken an unwavering position insofar as the shareholding position of
 the petitioner, TG III and TG IV was concerned. This becomes
 apparent from a reading of the following recitals which appear in the
 application which was submitted before the AAR. In the application
 moved and concerning the petitioner, it was averred as under: - 109. Similar recitals appear in the applications made to the AAR by
 TG III and TG IV relevant parts whereof are reproduced hereinbelow: 110. The petitioners thus appear to have taken the consistent position
 that TGM LLC was engaged as the investment manager and whose
 services were sought to be availed for various purposes including
 investment sourcing, portfolio stewardship and observership services,
 subject to review and final approval by the BoD of the respective
 Mauritian entities. It was further categorically averred that TGM LLC
 had neither been conferred the right to contract on their behalf nor was
 it entitled to take any decision without the approval of the BoD of the
 writ petitioners. 111. Along with the rejoinder affidavit the writ petitioners have
 placed on our record a structural chart which is reproduced Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 90 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 hereinbelow: 112. The positioning of the petitioner, TG III and TG IV carry
 similar declarations with respect to the rule of TGM LLC and relevant
 parts whereof have been extracted hereinabove. As is manifest from
 those declarations, there too TGM LLC was described as the
 management company. We also bear in consideration the unwavering
 position which has been taken by the petitioners with it being
 categorically asserted that TGM LLC was neither an equity partner
 nor did the funds for the investment originate from that entity. 113. It was in the aforesaid backdrop that Mr. Kaka in his rejoinder
 submissions had contended that all assertions, namely of TGM LLC
 being the ultimate parent, were erroneous and factually incorrect. 114. We also take note of the counter affidavit which has been filed
 in these proceedings and where too in the schematic holding structure Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 92 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 reproduced in paragraph 7.5 to 7.7, the position of TGM LLC is
 understood to be that of a management company. The schematic
 holding structures as set forth in the counter affidavit are reproduced
 hereinbelow: 115. We note in this regard that although the petitioners had
 consistently taken the stand of TGM LLC being merely the investment
 manager, with no equity participation and having not made any
 investments, the AAR for inexplicable reasons appears to have
 proceeded on the basis that the writ petitioners had not disputed the
 primary function and role performed by and assigned to TGM LLC.
 The entire case as set up against the petitioner thus appears to suffer
 from a wholly erroneous and factually unsustainable premise of TGM
 LLC being the holding and the parent company. Neither the AAR nor
 the respondents before us have been able to dislodge or cast a doubt Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 95 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 on the role and position of TGM LLC as advocated and asserted by
 the writ petitioners. Despite its position having been duly disclosed in
 the original application itself and the petitioners having denied the role
 ascribed to TGM LLC by the respondents, the AAR has erroneously
 proceeded on the premise that it was the parent and holding company.
 While proceeding on the basis of a perceived admission, the AAR also
 failed to verify the facts which were evident from a perusal of the
 Financial Statements which formed part of its record and which had
 duly disclosed the identity of the principal shareholders of the writ
 petitioners. This fundamental mistake has clearly tainted the impugned
 orders beyond repair. The orders impugned thus suffer from a
 manifest and patent error quite apart from being fundamentally
 flawed. H. THE MAURITIUS ROUTE 116. We at the outset deem it pertinent to note that investments
 emanating from Mauritius is clearly not a recent phenomenon. The
 first tax treaty between India and Mauritius was signed at Port Louis
 on 24 August 1982 and came into effect from 01 April 1983 and 01
 July 1983 in the two countries respectively. The last Protocol for
 amending the provisions of that treaty came to be signed on 10 May
 2016. From the data available on the portal of the Department For
 Promotion Of Industry And Internal Trade44 and which captures
 Foreign Direct Investment45 into the country between the period
 April 2000 to March 2024, the following position emerges insofar as 44 DPIIT 45 FDI Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 96 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 cumulative FDI inflow is concerned46 :- ii) ii. FEDAI (Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India) conversion rate from
 rupees to US dollar applied, on the basis of monthly average rate provided by RBI
 (DEAP), Mumbai. # Figures are provisional, subject to reconciliation with RBI, Mumbai. 117. The official web portal also captures data pertaining to the total
 FDI inflow from various countries. As would be evident from the
 following chart which appears on that website, the inflow from
 Mauritius stands at 25% and the said nation constitutes the first
 amongst the top ten from where FDI flows into the country. The said
 chart is being reproduced hereinbelow:- * Includes inflow under NRI Schemes of RBI. Note: i. Cumulative country-wise FDI equity inflow (from April, 2000 to March, 2024) are at - Annex-
 'A'. ii. FEDAI (Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India) conversion rate from rupees to US dollar
 applied, onthe basis of monthly average rate provided by RBI (DEAP), Mumbai.
 iii. %age worked out in USD terms & FDI inflow received through Government Route + Automatic
 Route +Acquisition of existing shares only. iv. Figures are provisional. 118. Mauritius, as would be evident from the data and material
 publicly available, appears to have been identified as one of the more
 favoured jurisdictions for FIIs' desirous of investing in India. In fact
 and as was noted by the Supreme Court in Azadi Bachao Andolan, out
 of the total investment from FIIs in 2012 pegged at INR 45,00,000
 million, INR 7,00,000 million came from Mauritius. This appears to
 have coincided with the liberalization measures which were adopted
 by India commencing from 1991. The Mauritius route appears to owe Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 99 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 its genesis to the proximity of the island nation to India as well as a
 wide bouquet of bilateral and multilateral trade agreements which that
 nation had entered into with various countries. Mauritius became a
 source for investments aimed not just at the Asian Tiger economies
 but also a gateway to investments flowing to the African continent
 itself. This since Mauritius stood at the proverbial crossroads of Africa
 and Asia. Entities appear to have established offices in that country
 bearing in mind liberalized exchange controls, a favourable
 investment climate coupled with political and social stability. While
 seeking to adapt to the changing world order, India which had signed
 its first tax treaty with Egypt way back in 1969, is presently a party to
 as many as 94 DTAAs. Investments emanating from Mauritius formed
 the subject matter of various circulars which came to be issued by the
 CBDT from time to time with the first being Circular No. 682 dated
 30 March 1994. Circular No. 682 constitutes the first significant
 clarification which the Board chose to render in the context of Article
 13 of the DTAA and the taxation of capital gains. Paragraph 3 of
 Circular No. 682 in unequivocal terms declared that gains derived by a
 resident of Mauritius by sale or transfer of shares would only be
 taxable in that country. Not stopping there, Circular No. 682
 proceeded further to proclaim that even if a resident of Mauritius were
 to derive income from the alienation of shares of Indian companies, it
 would become liable to a capital gains tax only in Mauritius and as per
 the taxation laws prevalent in that Nation. It was thus held out that
 such an entity would not have to face the spectre of a capital gains tax
 liability arising or accruing in India. 119. This was followed by Circular No. 789 dated 13 April 2000 and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 100 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 which clarified the position taken by the respondents with respect to
 TRCs' issued by authorities in Mauritius and such a certificate
 constituting sufficient evidence for the purposes of ascertaining status
 of residence as well as application of principles of beneficial
 ownership. Circular No. 789 further clarified that the test of residence
 formulated and flowing from a TRC would also apply in respect of
 income from capital gains on sale of shares. Circular No. 789
 proceeded to reiterate the stand which appears in Circular No. 682 to
 hold that a resident of Mauritius would not be subjected to a capital
 gains tax which may arise in India consequent to a sale of shares as
 per Article 13(4) the DTAA. Of equal significance were some of the
 proposed amendments to the Act and which we propose to notice in
 the subsequent parts of this decision. I. DECISIONS RENDERED BY THE SUPREME COURT 120. Proceeding chronologically, we then take note of the seminal
 decision handed down by the Supreme Court in Azadi Bachao
 Andolan. The said decision emanated from a challenge laid before this
 Court to Circular No. 789. It appears to have been contended before
 our Court that the Circular was ultra vires Sections 90 and 119 of the
 Act and clouded the discretion and powers of inquiry and
 investigation which could otherwise be wielded by assessing
 authorities under the Act. The High Court had proceeded to quash
 Circular No. 789 holding that the said directive essentially compelled
 authorities under the Act to accept a TRC as conclusive evidence with
 respect to status of residence and beneficial ownership. The Court thus
 came to the conclusion that Circular No. 789 was ultra vires the
 powers otherwise vested in the CBDT. It further proceeded to hold Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 101 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 that an Income Tax Officer is entitled in law to pierce the corporate
 veil in order to ascertain whether a company is actually a resident of
 Mauritius. According to the High Court, the directive of the CBDT
 clearly amounted to impinging upon the quasi-judicial power
 otherwise inhering in an Income Tax Officer. 121. While considering the challenge which came to be laid to the
 decision handed down by this Court, the Supreme Court in Azadi
 Bachao Andolan at the outset made the following pertinent
 observations with respect to tax conventions and the treaty making
 power inhering in nations:- 122. Azadi Bachao Andolan then proceeded to explain the scope of
 the power conferred upon the Union by virtue of Section 90 and of
 taxing conventions prevailing in the event of a conflict by virtue of Sections 4 and 5 of the Act themselves being made subject to the other
 provisions of the statute. This becomes evident from a reading of
 paragraphs 20 and 22 of the report which are reproduced
 hereinbelow:- By necessary implication, they are subject to the terms of the
 Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, if any, entered into by the
 Government of India. Therefore, the total income specified in Sections 4 and 5 chargeable to income tax is also subject to the
 provisions of the agreement to the contrary, if any.‖ 123. The aforesaid aspects were reemphasized in paragraph 28 which
 reads thus:- 124. Proceeding further to the main question of whether Circular No.
 789 was ultra vires the powers of the Board, the Supreme Court held
 as follows:- It is true that an international treaty between States A and B is
 neither intended to confer benefits nor impose obligations on the
 residents of State C, but, here we are not concerned with this
 question at all. The question posed for our consideration is: if the
 residents of State C qualify for a benefit under the treaty, can they
 be denied the benefit on some theoretical ground that ―treaty
 shopping‖ is unethical and illegal? We find no support for this
 proposition in the passage cited from Oppenheim. 117. The respondents then relied on the observations of Philip
 Baker regarding a seminar at IFI, Barcelona in 1991, wherein a
 paper was presented on ―Limitation of treaty benefits for
 companies‖ (treaty shopping). He points out that the Committee on
 Fiscal Affairs of OECD in its report styled as ―Conduit Companies
 Report, 1987‖ recognised that a conduit company would generally
 be able to claim treaty benefits. 118. There is elaborate discussion in Baker's treatise on the anti-
 abuse provisions in the OECD Model and the approach of different
 countries to the issue of ―treaty shopping‖. True, that several
 countries like the USA, Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland and
 United Kingdom have taken suitable steps, either by way of
 incorporation of appropriate provisions in the international
 conventions as to double taxation avoidance, or by domestic
 legislation, to ensure that the benefits of a treaty/convention are not
 available to residents of a third State. Doubtless, the treatise by
 Philip Baker is an excellent guide as to how a State should
 modulate its laws or incorporate suitable terms in tax conventions
 to which it is a party so that the possibility of a resident of a third
 State deriving benefits thereunder is totally eliminated. That may
 be an academic approach to the problem to say how the law should
 be. The maxim ―judicis est jus dice re, non dare‖ pithily expounds
 the duty of the Court. It is to decide what the law is, and apply it; not to make it.‖ 127. It becomes pertinent to note that Azadi Bachao Andolan had
 come to be pronounced at a time when the DTAA did not incorporate
 a LOB provision. While noticing this aspect, the Supreme Court
 observed that unlike other tax treaties which embodied Articles which
 regulated or constituted limitations with respect to treaty benefits
 being availed, the India-Mauritius DTAA contained no disabling
 conditions. It proceeded to hold that where the terms of a taxing
 convention were applicable, notwithstanding courts being otherwise
 empowered to peer through the veil of incorporation, the said principle
 would be inapplicable. The Court thus proceeded to negate the
 submission of the incorporation of entities in Mauritius being liable to
 be doubted or frowned upon. This becomes evident from the
 following observations which came to be entered:- Mauritius today provides a suitable treaty conduit for South Asia
 and South Africa. In recent years, India has been the beneficiary of
 significant foreign funds through the "Mauritius conduit". Although Indian economic reforms since 1991 permitted such
 capital transfers, the amount would have been much lower without
 the India-Mauritius Tax Treaty. 135. Overall, countries need to take, and do take, a holistic view.
 Developing countries allow treaty shopping to encourage capital
 and technology inflows, which developed countries are keen to
 provide to them. The loss of tax revenues could be insignificant
 compared to the other non-tax benefits to their economy. Many of
 them do not appear to be too concerned unless the revenue losses
 are significant compared to the other tax and nontax benefits from
 the treaty, or the treaty shopping leads to other tax abuses. 136. There are many principles in fiscal economy which, though at
 the first blush might appear to be evil, are tolerated in a developing
 economy, in the interest of long-term development. Deficit
 financing, for example, is one; treaty shopping in our view, is
 another. Despite the sound and fury of the respondents over the so-
 called ―abuse‖ of ―treaty shopping‖, perhaps, it may have been
 intended at the time when the lndo-Mauritius DTAC was entered
 into. Whether it should continue, and, if so, for how long, is a
 matter which is best left to the discretion of the executive as it is
 dependent upon several economic and political considerations.
 This Court cannot judge the legality of treaty shopping merely
 because one section of thought considers it improper. A holistic
 view has to be taken to adjudge what is perhaps regarded in
 contemporary thinking as a necessary evil in a developing
 economy.‖ 128. While concluding, the Supreme Court pertinently observed as
 under:- 129. While one would have thought that the authoritative
 pronouncement of the Supreme Court in Azadi Bachao Andolan and
 which had come to be pronounced on 07 October 2003 would have Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 111 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 rendered a quietus, the aspect of capital gains which may flow from
 the sale of shares routed in India again arose for consideration of the
 Supreme Court in Vodafone. It becomes pertinent to note that the
 aforesaid decision had come to be rendered prior to the introduction of
 Explanation 5 in Section 9(1) . Vodafone carries the following
 elucidating passages with respect to holding structures and the allied
 issues which arise in the field of international taxation. While dealing
 with the aforesaid aspects, Kapadia CJI, and whose opinion was
 joined by Swatanter Kumar J., explained those concepts in the
 following terms:- However, the fact that a parent company exercises shareholder's
 influence on its subsidiaries does not generally imply that the
 subsidiaries are to be deemed residents of the State in which the
 parent company resides. Further, if a company is a parent
 company, that company's executive director(s) should lead the
 group and the company's shareholder's influence will generally be
 employed to that end. This obviously implies a restriction on the
 autonomy of the subsidiary's executive Directors. Such a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 112 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 restriction, which is the inevitable consequence of any group
 structure, is generally accepted, both in corporate and tax laws. 74. However, where the subsidiary's executive Directors'
 competences are transferred to other persons/bodies or where the
 subsidiary's executive Directors' decision making has become fully
 subordinate to the holding company with the consequence that the
 subsidiary's executive Directors are no more than puppets then the
 turning point in respect of the subsidiary's place of residence comes
 about. Similarly, if an actual controlling non resident enterprise
 (NRE) makes an indirect transfer through "abuse of organisation
 form/legal form and without reasonable business purpose" which
 results in tax avoidance or avoidance of withholding tax, then the
 Revenue may disregard the form of the arrangement or the
 impugned action through use of non-resident holding company,
 recharacterise the equity transfer according to its economic
 substance and impose the tax on the actual controlling non-resident
 enterprise. Thus, whether a transaction is used principally as a
 colourable device for the distribution of earnings, profits and gains,
 is determined by a review of all the facts and circumstances
 surrounding the transaction. It is in the above cases that the
 principle of lifting the corporate veil or the doctrine of substance
 over form or the concept of beneficial ownership or the concept of
 alter ego arises. There are many circumstances, apart from the one
 given above, where separate existence of different companies, that
 are part of the same group, will be totally or partly ignored as a
 device or a conduit (in the pejorative sense). xxxx xxxx xxxx 79. When it comes to taxation of a holding structure, at the
 threshold, the burden is on the Revenue to allege and establish
 abuse, in the sense of tax avoidance in the creation and/or use of
 such structure(s). In the application of a judicial anti-avoidance
 rule, the Revenue may invoke the "substance over form" principle
 or "piercing the corporate veil" test only after it is able to establish
 on the basis of the facts and circumstances surrounding the
 transaction that the impugned transaction is a sham or tax avoidant.
 To give an example, if a structure is used for circular trading or
 round tripping or bribes then such transactions, though having a
 legal form, should be discarded by applying the test of fiscal
 nullity. Similarly, in a case where the Revenue finds that in a
 holding structure an entity which has no commercial/business
 substance has been interposed only to avoid tax then in such cases
 applying the test of fiscal nullity it would be open to the Revenue
 to discard such interpositioning of that entity. However, this has to
 be done at the threshold. 80. In this connection, we may reiterate the "look at" principle
 enunciated in Ramsay in which it was held that the Revenue or the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 113 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Court must look at a document or a transaction in a context to
 which it properly belongs to It is the task of the Revenue/Court to
 ascertain the legal nature of the transaction and while doing so it
 has to look at the entire transaction as a whole and not to adopt a
 dissecting approach. The Revenue cannot start with the question as
 to whether the impugned transaction is a tax deferment/saving
 device but that it should apply the "look at" test to ascertain its true
 legal nature [see Craven v. White (Stephen) which further observed
 that genuine strategic tax planning has not been abandoned by any
 decision of the English Courts till date].‖ 130. As is manifest from the principles enunciated by the Supreme
 Court, the position of holding or parent companies exercising due
 oversight was duly acknowledged. This becomes evident from the
 Supreme Court noting that a group or parent company would
 invariably be involved in providing principled guidance to other
 entities forming part of that conglomerate and the same being in
 exercise of the right of the principal or the major shareholder itself. It
 was pertinently noted that merely because a parent company were to
 issue such a directive or formulate a policy of guidance, the same
 would not compel one to hold that the subsidiary was liable to be
 deemed to be a resident of a State in which the parent company
 resided. 131. Kapadia C.J. proceeded further to hold that one would be
 justified in ignoring the principles of separate entity only if it were
 found that the subsidiary stood completely denuded of independent
 decision making powers and were a mere puppet which was wholly
 controlled by the parent. It was pertinently observed that it is only in
 cases where it be found that where the Directors of the subsidiary
 stood deprived of independent decision making power and had
 become fully subordinate or subservient to the parent company that
 such a presumption may be drawn. It then proceeded to formulate Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 114 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 various principles which would justify the Revenue doubting the
 corporate existence and independence of a subsidiary. Vodafone
 explains that the Revenue would be empowered to disregard the form
 of an arrangement in situations where it be found that a non-resident
 enterprise were acting through ―abuse of organization form/legal form
 and without reasonable business purpose‖. It was in that limited
 window that the Supreme Court recognized the authority of the
 Revenue to disregard the form and recharacterize the transaction
 according to the principle of economic substance. It also
 acknowledged the right of the Revenue to undertake that exercise of
 recharacterization where it were to find that the subsidiary company
 had been interposed essentially as a ―colourable device‖. 132. It thus held that it would be in the aforesaid situations that the
 Revenue would be entitled to ignore the corporate veil and test the
 transaction based on the precept of substance over form. The power of
 the Revenue to pierce the corporate veil was explained as one
 available to be invoked where it be found on facts that the transaction
 were a sham or a tax avoidance mechanism. These presumptions,
 Kapadia C.J. explained, would be attracted where the entire
 arrangement were found to be based on fraud, the corporate structure
 being used for circular trading or round tripping or for illegal purposes
 such as bribery. In such situations, Kapadia C.J. held that the test of
 fiscal nullity would apply and enable the Revenue to discard the form
 of the subsidiary. 133. However, in Vodafone, the Supreme Court also penned the
 following significant note of caution:- 134. As was noted by us in the preceding parts of this decision, the
 judgment in Vodafone had come to be pronounced prior to
 Explanation 5 coming to be incorporated in Section 9(1) of the Act. Section 9 as it stood at that point in time did not incorporate principles
 pertaining to taxation of indirect transfers. The Supreme Court was
 thus called upon to examine whether a transfer of shares which were
 asserted to derive value from assets situated in India would fall within
 the dragnet of Section 9(1)(i) . While negativing the contention of the
 Revenue in this respect, the Supreme Court pertinently observed as
 follows:- In fact, the DTC Bill, 2009 expressly stated that income accruing
 even from indirect transfer of a capital asset situate in India would
 be deemed to accrue in India. These proposals, therefore, show that
 in the existing Section 9(1)(i) the word indirect cannot be read on
 the basis of purposive construction. 93. The question of providing ―look through‖ in the statute or in the
 treaty is a matter of policy. It is to be expressly provided for in the
 statute or in the treaty. Similarly, limitation of benefits has to be
 expressly provided for in the treaty. Such clauses cannot be read into
 the section by interpretation. For the foregoing reasons, we hold that Section 9(l)(i) is not a ―look through‖ provision.‖ 135. Proceeding then to reiterate the limited extent to which the
 Revenue may be entitled to doubt the source of investment, the
 Supreme Court rendered the following significant observations:- Though it may be advantageous for parent and subsidiary companies
 to work as a group, each subsidiary will look to see whether there
 are separate commercial interests which should be guarded. 102. When there is a parent company with subsidiaries, is it or is it
 not the law that the parent company has the ―power‖ over the
 subsidiary. It depends on the facts of each case. For instance, take
 the case of a one-man company, where only one man is the
 shareholder perhaps holding 99% of the shares, his wife holding 1%.
 In those circumstances, his control over the company may be so
 complete that it is his alter ego. But, in case of multinationals it is
 important to realise that their subsidiaries have a great deal of
 autonomy in the country concerned except where subsidiaries are
 created or used as a sham. Of course, in many cases the courts do lift
 up a corner of the veil but that does not mean that they alter the legal
 position between the companies. 103. The Directors of the subsidiary under their articles are the
 managers of the companies. If new Directors are appointed even at
 the request of the parent company and even if such Directors were
 removable by the parent company, such Directors of the subsidiary
 will owe their duty to their companies (subsidiaries). They are not to
 be dictated by the parent company if it is not in the interests of those
 companies (subsidiaries). The fact that the parent company exercises
 shareholders' influence on its subsidiaries cannot obliterate the
 decision-making power or authority of its (subsidiary's) Directors.
 They cannot be reduced to be puppets. The decisive criterion is
 whether the parent company's management has such steering
 interference with the subsidiary's core activities that the subsidiary
 can no longer be regarded to perform those activities on the authority
 of its own executive Directors.‖ 136. K.S.P. Radhakrishnan J., while penning a concurrent opinion,
 firstly observed that the burden of establishing that the incorporation
 of an entity was aimed solely to subserve a fraudulent or dishonest
 purpose lies entirely on the Revenue. This becomes evident from
 paragraphs 241 and 242 of the report:- consuming judicial system, etc., all can be contributing factors that
 may drive its exit or restructuring. Clearly, there is a fundamental
 difference in transnational investment made overseas and domestic
 investment. Domestic investments are made in the borne country and
 meant to stay as it were, but when the transnational investment is
 made overseas away from the natural residence of the investing
 company, provisions are usually made for exit route to facilitate an
 exit as and when necessary for good business and commercial
 reasons, which is generally foreign to judicial review.‖ 137. It was also pertinently observed that it was always open for
 multinational corporations and who intended to expand their activities
 or presence in various markets across the globe to choose tax neutral
 and investor friendly jurisdictions. The learned Judge thus
 acknowledged the establishment of such entities for bona fide
 purposes. Proceeding further to deal with transnational companies and
 FDI in particular, Radhakrishnan J. held as follows:- resident are common. Press notes are announced by the Ministry of
 Commerce and Industry and the Ministry issued Press Note 2 of
 2009 and Press Note 3 of 2009, which deal with calculation of
 foreign investment in downstream entities and requirement of
 ownership or control in sectoral cap companies. Many of the
 offshore companies use the facilities of offshore financial centres
 situate in Mauritius, the Cayman Islands, etc. Many of these offshore
 holdings and arrangements are undertaken for sound commercial
 and legitimate tax planning reasons, without any intent to conceal
 income or assets from the home country tax jurisdiction and India
 has always encouraged such arrangements, unless it is fraudulent or
 fictitious. 249. Moving offshore or using an OFC does not necessarily lead to
 the conclusion that they involve in the activities of tax evasion or
 other criminal activities. Multinational companies are attracted to
 offshore financial centres mainly due to the reason of providing
 attractive facilities for investment. Many corporate conglomerates
 employ a large number of holding companies and often high-risk
 assets are parked in separate companies so as to avoid legal and
 technical risks to the main group. Instances are also there when
 individuals form offshore vehicles to engage in risky investments,
 through the use of derivatives trading, etc. Many of such companies
 do, of course, involve in manipulation of the market, money
 laundering and also indulge in corrupt activities like round tripping, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 120 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 parking black money or offering, accepting, etc., directly or
 indirectly bribe or any other undue advantage or prospect thereof. 250. OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
 Development) in the year 1998 issued a report called ―Harmful Tax
 Competition: An Emerging Global Issue‖. The report advocated
 doing away with tax havens and offshore financial centres, like the
 Cayman Islands, on the basis that their low-tax regimes provide
 them with an unfair advantage in the global marketplace and are thus
 harmful to the economies of more developed countries. OECD
 threatened to place the Cayman Islands and other tax havens on a
 ―black list‖ and impose sanctions against them. OECD's blacklist
 was avoided by the Cayman Islands in May 2000 by committing
 itself to a string of reforms to improve transparency, remove
 discriminatory practices and began to exchange information with
 OECD. 251. Often, complaints have been raised stating that these centres
 are utilised for manipulating markets, to launder money, to evade
 tax, to finance terrorism, indulge in corruption, etc. All the same, it
 is stated that OFCs have an important role in the international
 economy, offering advantages for multinational companies and
 individuals for investments and also for legitimate financial planning
 and risk management. It is often said that insufficient legislation in
 the countries where they operate gives opportunities for money
 laundering, tax evasion, etc. and, hence, it is imperative that that the
 Indian Parliament would address all these issues with utmost
 urgency.‖ 138. As is evident from the aforesaid observations, Radhakrishnan J.
 acknowledged the paradigm shift in global commerce of companies
 being desirous of overcoming trade barriers and bureaucratic obstacles
 while choosing investor friendly shores. It was significantly observed
 that many of such entities which may be seated in jurisdictions such as
 Mauritius or the Cayman Islands may in fact be premised on sound
 commercial and legitimate tax planning purposes without any intent to
 conceal income or assets. The learned Judge then held that merely
 because an offshore jurisdiction was chosen to establish a subsidiary
 or a holding entity, the same would not necessarily lead one to
 adversely presume that such an activity was motivated by tax evasion
 or a criminal purpose. The opinion penned by Radhakrishnan J. also Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 121 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 has the following illuminating passages relating to the interplay
 between holding and subsidiary companies. The relevant parts of his
 Lordship's opinion in this respect are extracted hereinbelow:- Union of India and Carrasco Investments Ltd. v. Directorate of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 122 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Enforcement . 258. Holding company, of course, if the subsidiary is a WOS, may
 appoint or remove any Director if it so desires by a resolution in the
 general body meeting of the subsidiary. Holding companies and
 subsidiaries can be considered as single economic entity and
 consolidated balance sheet is the accounting relationship between the
 holding company and subsidiary company, which shows the status
 of the entire business enterprises. Shares of stock in the subsidiary
 company are held as assets on the books of the parent company and
 can be issued as collateral for additional debt financing. Holding
 company and subsidiary company are, however, considered as
 separate legal entities, and subsidiary is allowed decentralised
 management. Each subsidiary can reform its own management
 personnel and holding company may also provide expert, efficient
 and competent services for the benefit of the subsidiaries. 259. The US Supreme Court in United States v. Bestfoods explained
 that it is a general principle of corporate law and legal systems that a
 parent corporation is not liable for the acts of its subsidiary, but the
 Court went on to explain that corporate veil can be pierced and the
 parent company can be held liable for the conduct of its subsidiary,
 if the corporal form is misused to accomplish certain wrongful
 purposes, when the parent company is directly a participant in the
 wrong complained of. Mere ownership, parental control,
 management, etc. of a subsidiary is not sufficient to pierce the status
 of their relationship and, to hold parent company liable. In Adams v.
 Cape Industries Plc., the Court of Appeal emphasised that it is
 appropriate to pierce the corporate veil where special circumstances
 exist indicating that it is mere facade concealing true facts. 260. Courts, however, will not allow the separate corporate entities
 to be used as a means to carry out fraud or to evade tax. Parent
 company of a WOS, is not responsible, legally for the unlawful
 activities of the subsidiary save in exceptional circumstances, such
 as a company is a sham or the agent of the shareholder, the parent
 company is regarded as a shareholder. Multinational companies, by
 setting up complex vertical pyramid-like structures, would be able to
 distance themselves and separate the parent from operating
 companies, thereby protecting the multinational companies from
 legal liabilities.‖ 139. The opinion then proceeds to enunciate the various
 contingencies in which the doctrine of lifting of the corporate veil may
 be applied. We deem it apposite to extract paragraphs 277 and 280 of
 the report hereunder:- 140. Of equal significance is the following discussion on LOBs' and
 the presumptions which may flow from a TRC:- Denmark DTA which had the effect of reducing a normal 35%
 withholding tax on dividend out of Switzerland down to 0%. The
 court in that case held that the only reason for the existence of the
 Danish company was to benefit from the zero withholding tax
 under the tax treaty. On facts also, the above case will not apply to
 the case in hand.‖ 141. Insofar as tax havens, treaty shopping and shell companies are
 concerned, Radhakrishnan J. pertinently observed as follows:- FDI inflows it is reported were of $22.958 billion between April
 2010 and January 2011 and FII investment were $31.031 billion.
 Reports are afloat that million of rupees go out of the country only
 to be returned as FDI or FII. 321. Round-tripping can take many formats like under-invoicing
 and over-invoicing of exports and imports. Round-tripping
 involves getting the money out of India, say to Mauritius, and then
 come to India like FDI or FII. Article 4 of the Indo-Mauritius
 DTAA defines a ―resident‖ to mean any person, who under the
 laws of the contracting State is liable to taxation therein by reason
 of his domicile, residence, place of business or any other similar
 criteria. An Indian company, with the idea of tax evasion can also
 incorporate a company offshore, say in a tax haven, and then create
 a WOS in Mauritius and after obtaining a TRC may invest in India.
 Large amounts, therefore, can be routed back to India using TRC
 as a defence, but once it is established that such an investment is
 black money or capital that is hidden, it is nothing but circular
 movement of capital known as round-tripping; then TRC can be
 ignored, since the transaction is fraudulent and against national
 interest. 322. The facts stated above are food for thought to the legislature
 and adequate legislative measures have to be taken to plug the
 loopholes; all the same, a genuine corporate structure set up for
 purely commercial purpose and indulging in genuine investment is
 to be recognised. However, if the fraud is detected by the court of
 law, it can pierce the corporate structure since fraud unravels
 everything, even a statutory provision, if it is a stumbling block,
 because the legislature never intents to guard fraud. Certainly, in
 our view, TRC certificate though can be accepted as a conclusive
 evidence for accepting status of residents as well as beneficial
 ownership for applying the tax treaty, it can be ignored if the treaty
 is abused for the fraudulent purpose of evasion of tax.‖ 142. Post the decision rendered in Vodafone, Parliament stepped in
 and while promulgating Finance Act 2012 introduced Explanation 5 to Section 9(1)(i) . Close on the heels of that legislative amendment being
 introduced, certain proposed amendments to Section 90 were mooted
 in terms of the Finance Bill, 2013. As was noted in the earlier parts of
 this decision, one of the controversial amendments were those Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 128 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 proposed in terms of the introduction of sub-section (5) in Section 90 and which sought to introduce a rule that while a TRC would be
 necessary, it would not constitute sufficient basis for claiming reliefs
 under the DTAA. This appears to have led to a huge furore being
 raised, the measure being opposed and capital markets in India being
 adversely impacted. 143. Soon thereafter, the Finance Ministry issued a clarification on
 01 March 2013 stating that proposed sub-section (5) of Section 90 was
 never intended to be a measure enabling income tax authorities to
 question the validity of a TRC. It thus reiterated the position of the
 Union Government that a TRC would be accepted as evidence and
 that Income Tax authorities would not go behind the TRC or question
 the residence status claimed on that basis. Circular No. 789 and the
 provisions incorporated therein were reiterated. It is pertinent to note
 that proposed sub-section (5) was ultimately shelved and never came
 to form part of Section 90 . J. THE HIGH COURT DECISIONS 144. Subsequent to the decision of Vodafone, the Andhra Pradesh
 High Court came to render its judgement in Sanofi. The writ petitions
 before the Andhra Pradesh High Court pertained to a tax dispute
 between the petitioners and the Revenue with respect to the
 acquisition of share capital by a French entity, M/s Sanofi Pasteur
 Holding SA France47 of a French based Joint Venture Company,
 M/s ShanH SAS France48 from its constituents M/s Merieux 47 Sanofi Pasteur 48 ShanH Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 129 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Alliance France49 and M/s Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault50.
 ShanH, as of the date of acquisition by Sanofi Pasteur, was stated to
 have held 80% of the shares in Shanta Biotechnics Ltd.51, an entity
 based in Hyderabad. 145. The Revenue had determined the petitioner therein to be an
 assessee in default in respect of payments made by it to MA and
 GIMD regarding the aforenoted acquisition. The AAR had in its
 impugned order observed that the transaction was designed for
 avoidance of tax in India and that the transfer of shares of the JVC
 effectively amounted to the transfer of assets of an India based
 company since the sequence of events pertaining to the said transfer
 involved a transfer of the underlying assets and control of the Indian
 company, SBL. Accordingly, it was determined that the transaction of
 sale of shares was in fact taxable in India in terms of Article 14(5) of
 the DTAA between India and France. The AAR had additionally
 declined to rule on the questions posed since it was determined that
 sub-clause (iii) to Section 245R(2) was applicable. 146. The Court in Sanofi observed that the JVC was a resident of
 France and was a distinct entity having commercial substance which
 was incorporated to serve as an investment vehicle and accordingly
 had commercial substance and a legitimate business purpose of also
 facilitating FDI in India. It accordingly observed as follows:- 147. The Court had additionally relied upon the decisions rendered
 by the Supreme Court in Azadi Bachao Andolan and Vodafone to hold
 that the JVC was not a sham corporate entity brought into existence
 solely for the purposes of avoiding capital gains liability under the
 provisions of the Act and hence there being no reason to pierce the
 corporate veil. This since the Revenue had failed to establish that the
 said entity was one lacking in any commercial substance and was
 interposed as a mere tax avoidance device. 148. The Court had additionally rendered the following pertinent
 observations with respect to the interplay between the DTAA and the
 retrospective amendments to the provisions of the Act:- Section 98 in Chapter X-A is inserted with the specific intention to
 override tax treaties, where an arrangement is declared to be an
 impermissible avoidance agreement, as defined in section 96 ; • In contradistinction, the retrospective amendments, sought to be
 relied upon by the Revenue in the present case (Explanation 2 to section 2(47) ) ; and Explanations 4 and 5 to section 9 ) are not
 fortified by a non obstante clause expressed to override tax treaties.
 • There is a presumption against a repeal by implication and the
 reason underlying this principle is premised on the theory that the
 Legislature while enacting a law has a complete knowledge of the
 existing laws on the same subject matter, and, therefore, when it
 does not provide a repealing the provision it signals an intention
 not to repeal the existing legislation-Municipal Council, Palai v. T.
 J. Joseph , AIR 1963 SC 1561 ; Tansukh Rai v. Nilratan Prasad
 Shaw , AIR 1966 SC 1780, Northern India Caterers (P.) Ltd. v.
 State of Puniab. AIR 1967 SC 1581 : Municioal Corooration of
 Delhi v. Shiv Shanker , AIR 1971 SC 815 ; Ratan Lal Adukia v.
 Union of India , AIR 1990 SC 104 ; R.S. Raghunath v. State of
 Karnataka , AIR 1992 SC 81 ; Union of India v. S.Venkateshan ,
 AIR 2002 SC 1890 ; State of M. P. v. Kedia Leather and Liquor
 Ltd. , AIR 2003 SC 3236 ; xxxx xxxx xxxx 109. In the case on hand, therefore, the meaning and the trajectory
 of the retrospective amendments to the Act (by the Finance Act,
 2012 ), must be identified by ascertaining the legal meaning of the
 amendments, considered in the light of provisions of the Act ; the
 mischief, the amendments are intended to address and other
 applicable legal norms ; which in the context include provisions of
 the DTAA, an instrument effectuated under constitutional text and
 authority and duly notified under provisions of the Act and the
 amendment ought be confined to its legitimate locus and orbit. 110. As earlier observed, the provisions of the Act and of the
 DTAA are overlapping and competing legal magisteria and the
 proper interpretive role requires, on a harmonious construction and
 in accordance with the relative weight and priority, giving effect to
 both competing provisions, as per the inter se weightage mandated
 by the overarching legal norms, set out in section 90(2) of the Act.‖ 149. The Court while examining Article 14 of the India-France
 DTAA in the context of Sanofi had observed that sub-clause (5) which
 pertained to alienation of shares, does not contemplate a ―see through‖
 approach to enquire into the control of the taxpaying entity. It was
 accordingly observed as under:- 118. On no rational interpretive principle is it legitimate to consider
 provisions of article 14(5) as permitting a "see through". The
 provision, on a true, fair and non-manipulative interpretation, does
 not accommodate reckoning of the inherence of control by an
 intermediary/interpositioned joint venture company (ShanH), of the
 affairs, management and assets of its subsidiary (SBL), as
 alienation of shares by or of the control over the affairs,
 management and assets of the subsidiary (SBL), by one or all of
 the distinct participants of the interpositioned joint venture, i.e., by
 MA/GIMD, who are distinct and French resident corporate entities
 themselves. xxxx xxxx xxxx 140. Qua article 14(5) , where shares of a company which is a
 resident of France are transferred, representing a participation
 (shareholding see Vodafone) of more than 10 per cent. in such
 entity, the resultant capital gain is taxable only in France. Even
 where the underlying value of such shares is located in the
 jurisdiction of the other contracting State (India), this fact is
 irrelevant under the DTAA provisions ; except where the alienation
 is of shares of a company the property of which consists principally
 (whether directly or indirectly) of immovable property and in the
 later circumstance the entitlement to tax stands allocated under article 14(4) to the contracting State within whose jurisdiction such
 property is situate. To reiterate, the fact that the value of the shares
 alienated comprise underlying assets located in the other
 contracting State is irrelevant in the context of article 14(5). 141. The creative interpretation by the Revenue of provisions of article 14(5) on the substrate of its "underlying assets" theory
 (premised on its "MA/ GIMD are the legal and beneficial owners
 of SBL shares" assumption) ; and in the context of SBL assets
 comprising immovable property pertaining to its industrial and
 commercial operations as well ; would render the provisions of article 14( 4) otiose. xxxx xxxx xxxx 144. The petitioners have contended (a contention that commends
 our acceptance) that the UN Model Convention provides that
 countries negotiating a treaty have an option in article 14(5) to
 permit the clause to operate only in instances where a substantial
 portion of the company's assets are situate in that Contracting
 State, mere residence of a company would not suffice and its
 underlying assets should also be situate in that State. The relevant
 commentary on the UN Model Convention, at paragraph 11
 mentions that such a clause must be incorporated as part of a treaty.
 The relevant part of the commentary reads: 145. The DTAA does not incorporate such a clause and
 accommodating a "see through" in article 14(5) would transgress
 the negotiated terms of the DTAA since the capital gains tax
 arising from the transaction, which stands allocated to France in
 terms of the DTAA would be susceptible to doubletaxation, both in
 India and France, by an artificial and strained construction of the
 provisions of article 14(5) .‖ 150. The Court had also rendered the following pivotal observations
 pertaining to the primacy of DTAAs', treaty shopping and the
 principles underlying the formulation and interpretation of treaties:- Francis Bennion observes (quoted with approval in Azadi Bachao
 Andolan) : the drafting of treaties is notoriously sloppy usually for
 very good reason. To get agreement, politic uncertainty is called
 for. xxxx xxxx xxxx 148. Whose purpose is the question ? It is axiomatic that while the
 tax legislation may principally be for revenue augmentation that
 need not, in all circumstances, be the singular legislative purpose.
 Sovereign power to tax may be and often is (in contemporaneous
 Governmental objectives, across nations) pursued for effectuating a
 cornucopia of State objectives ; including nurture of societal
 equilibrium, minimizing economic or other disparities and health
 or ecological concerns (to mention a few). Normatively, promotion
 of international trade and commerce, in goods and services is thus
 a legitimate Governmental purpose that may be pursued through
 tax legislation. 149. The Act ( section 90 ) authorizes, effectuation of a tax treaty (to
 which India is a signatory) and for the prevalence of the duly
 notified treaty provisions over the provisions of the Act, as well. 150. Strained construction of the treaty provisions, where not
 authorized by the settled principles of statutory construction, either
 by the tax administrator or by the judicial branch at the invitation
 of the Revenue of one of the Contracting States to a treaty would
 also transgress the inherent and vital constitutional scheme, of
 separation of powers. Treaty-making power is integral to the
 exercise of sovereign legislative or executive will according to the
 relevant constitutional scheme, in all jurisdictions. Once the power
 is exercised by the authorized agency (the Legislature or the
 executive, as the case may be) and a treaty entered into, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 135 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 provisions of such treaty must receive a good faith interpretation
 by every authorized interpreter, whether an executive agency, a
 quasi-judicial authority or the judicial branch. The supremacy of
 the tax treaty provisions duly operationalised within a contracting
 State (which may (theoretically) be disempowered only by explicit
 and appropriately authorized legislative exertions), cannot be
 eclipsed by employment of an interpretive stratagem, on
 misconceived and ambiguous assumption of revenue interests of
 one of the Contracting States. Where the operative treaty's
 provisions are unambiguous and their legal meaning clearly
 discernible and lend to an uncontestable comprehension on good
 faith interpretation, no further interpretive exertion is authorized ;
 for that would tantamount to usurpation (by an unauthorized body-
 the interpreting agency/tribunal), intrusion and unlawful
 encroachment into the domain of treaty-making under article 253
 (in the Indian context) , an arena off-limits to the judicial branch
 and when the organic charter accommodates no participatory role,
 for either the judicial branch or the executors of the Act.‖ 151. It was on the aforesaid basis that the Court declined to entertain
 the contention of the Revenue commending the Court to purposively
 construe Article 14(5) and derive the interpretation of the terms
 emanating therefrom as per the provisions of the Act, observing that
 treaties must be interpreted in accordance with the ―ordinary
 meaning‖ given to it in terms of the treaty and in light of the objects
 and purpose of the latter. The Court went on to observe that the
 proposition of the Revenue to adopt a ―see through approach‖ towards Article 14(5) rested on an assumption that the JVC is an entity of no
 commercial substance and is not the beneficial owner of shares. The
 aforenoted premise of the Revenue was, however, categorically
 rejected by the Court. Accordingly, the Court observed that the
 income accruing from the transaction does not arise and is not taxable
 in India but is liable to taxation in France. Pursuant to the above, it
 was held that the ruling of the AAR that capital gains arising out of
 the transaction is liable to tax in India, was wholly unsustainable. 152. The Punjab and Haryana High Court, in Serco BPO dealt with a
 challenge to an AAR ruling where the petitioner sought a declaration
 that the transaction was not designed for the avoidance of tax. That
 High Court proceeded to decide the matter on merits on account of the
 inordinate delays in deciding the application of the petitioner before
 the AAR. The primary dispute before the AAR pertained to whether
 the capital gains arising in the hands of the Mauritian entity on
 account of sale of shares of the Indian entity would be exempt from
 taxation under the Act and in light of Article 13(4) of the India-
 Mauritius DTAA. The Court placed reliance on the provisions of the
 India-Mauritius DTAA as well as CBDT Circular No. 682 and 789 to
 hold that any resident of Mauritius deriving income from alienation of
 shares of Indian companies would be liable to capital gains tax solely
 as per Mauritian tax laws and that a TRC would constitute sufficient
 proof of residence as well as beneficial ownership. 153. The High Court came to render the following pertinent
 observations with respect to the sanctity of a TRC:- 154. The Court in Serco BPO also took note of the proposed
 amendments to Section 90 and the proposed sub-section (5) which
 never came to fruition as a result of the ensuing backlash, which has
 been noticed in some detail in the preceding parts of this decision. The
 Court accordingly observed that in light of the entire sequence of
 events pertaining to the proposed amendment vide Finance Bill, 2013
 as well as the decision of Azadi Bachao Andolan, the TRC issued to
 the Mauritian entities must be accepted as valid and the entities
 considered as legitimate residents of Mauritius. In view of the above,
 it was observed that the capital gains arising from the sale of shares
 could only have been liable to tax in Mauritius as per Article 13. 155. The Court after taking note of the analysis rendered in Azadi
 Bachao Andolan with respect to treaty shopping had made the
 following succinct observations in the aforesaid context:- 160. The paper identified the three principal areas pertaining to
 Action 6 as requiring: (a) the development of model treaty provisions
 to prevent the grant of treaty benefits in inappropriate circumstances; (b) clarification of tax treaties elaborating that they were not intended
 to generate double non-taxation; and (c) to identify tax policy
 considerations in general to be considered by countries before
 finalizing taxing conventions. It was in the course of the aforesaid
 study that a recommendation came to be formulated for treaties to
 incorporate specific anti-abuse rules and which in turn resulted in the 53 OECD 54 G-20 55 BEPS Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 141 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 formulation of LOB principles and the Principal Purpose Test56. 161. The OECD in its Sixth-Year review report on treaty shopping
 and the progress made with respect to Action 6, takes note of the
 significant increase in the number of compliant agreements and
 records that over 1,120 out of the 1,270 compliant agreements had
 been brought in accord through the Multilateral Convention to
 Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion
 and Profit Shifting57. 162. The United Nations Model Double Taxation Convention
 Between Developed and Developing Countries 202158 also takes
 note of the aforesaid initiatives commenced by the OECD/G-20 BEPS
 Project while dealing with Article 29 of the UN Model Convention
 2021 and which is concerned with entitlement of benefits in general.
 The aforesaid Commentary has adopted the following parts of the
 OECD Commentary on Article 29 , and which is extracted
 hereinbelow: Allowing persons who are not directly entitled to treaty
 benefits (such as the reduction or elimination of withholding
 taxes on dividends, interest or royalties) to obtain these
 benefits indirectly through treaty shopping would frustrate
 the bilateral and reciprocal nature of tax treaties. If, for 56 PPT 57 BEPS MLI 58 UN Model Convention 2021 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 142 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 instance, a State knows that its residents can indirectly access
 the benefits of treaties concluded by another State, it may
 have little interest in granting reciprocal benefits to residents
 of that other State through the conclusion of a tax treaty.
 Also, in such a case, the benefits that would be indirectly
 obtained may not be appropriate given the nature of the tax
 system of the former State; if, for instance, that State does not
 levy an income tax on a certain type of income, it would be
 inappropriate for its residents to benefit from the provisions
 of a tax treaty concluded between two other States that grant
 a reduction or elimination of source taxation for that type of
 income and that were designed on the assumption that the
 two Contracting States would tax such income. 5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 7 seek to deny treaty
 benefits in the case of structures that typically result in the
 indirect granting of treaty benefits to persons that are not
 directly entitled to these benefits whilst recognising that in
 some cases, persons who are not residents of a Contracting
 State may establish an entity in that State for legitimate
 business reasons. Although these provisions apply regardless
 of whether or not a particular structure was adopted for
 treaty-shopping purposes, the Article allows the competent
 authority of a Contracting State to grant treaty benefits where
 the other provisions of the Article would otherwise deny
 these benefits but the competent authority determines that the
 structure did not have as one of its principal purposes the
 obtaining of benefits under the Convention. 6. The Article restricts the general scope of the other
 provisions of the Convention, including those of Article 1 according to which the Convention applies to persons who
 are residents of a Contracting State. Paragraph 1 of the
 Article provides that a resident of a Contracting State shall
 not be entitled to the benefits of the Convention unless it
 constitutes a ―qualified person‖ under paragraph 2 or unless
 benefits are granted under the provisions of paragraphs 3, 4, 5
 or 6. Paragraph 2 determines who constitutes a ―qualified
 person‖ by reference to the nature or attributes of various
 categories of persons; any person to which that paragraph
 applies is entitled to all the benefits of the Convention. Under
 paragraph 3, a person is entitled to the benefits of the
 Convention with respect to an item of income even if it does
 not constitute a ―qualified person‖ under paragraph 2 as long
 as that item of income emanates from, or is incidental to, the
 active conduct of a business in that person's State of
 residence (subject to certain exceptions). Paragraph 4 is a
 ―derivative benefits‖ provision that allows certain entities
 owned by residents of third States to obtain treaty benefits Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 143 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 provided that these residents would have been entitled to
 equivalent benefits if they had invested directly. Paragraph 5
 is a ―headquarters company‖ provision under which a
 company that is not eligible for benefits under paragraph 2
 may nevertheless qualify for benefits with respect to
 particular items of income. Paragraph 6 includes the
 provisions that allow the competent authority of a
 Contracting State to grant treaty benefits where the other
 provisions of the Article would otherwise deny these benefits.
 Paragraph 7 includes a number of definitions that apply for
 the purposes of the Article.‖ 163. As is manifest from the above, the principal focus of authorities
 across the globe appears to be concentrated on ensuring that persons
 who were not entitled to derive benefits from taxing treaties not being
 able to obtain the same indirectly through treaty shopping and thus
 violate the reciprocal character of those treaties itself. It is in the
 aforesaid context that both the OECD as well as the UN Model
 Convention 2021 bids member States to adopt the concepts of
 qualified person and also deal with various other situations in which
 treaty benefits may be denied. 164. While explaining model paragraph 3 of Article 29 , the
 Commentary on the UN Model Convention 2021 again adopts the
 comments formulated by the OECD and advocates the testing of
 transactions based on the precept of active conduct of business. This
 would be evident from the following relevant passages which appear
 in the UN Commentary:- 165. In order to examine the view which judicial institutions have
 taken with respect to treaty abuse we find an excellent exposition on
 the fundamental principles which should apply in the decision of the
 Court of Justice of the European Communities59 in Cadbury
 Schweppes Plc and another v Inland Revenue Commissioners60.
 Though rendered in the context of the right of establishment
 comprised in Articles 43 and 48 of the European Convention, there are
 some pertinent observations which appear in that decision and which
 would be of relevance to the questions which stand posited before us. 166. The aforenoted decision had come to be rendered in the context
 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act, 1988, prevalent in the
 United Kingdom61 and in terms of which a parent company
 established in the UK was taxed on the profits of certain subsidiaries 59 CJEC 60 [(2006) 3 WLR 890] 61 UK Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 145 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 noted as Controlled Foreign Companies62 and in which case the
 profits attributable to the CFCs' were attributed to the parent and
 taxed in its hands. The fundamental question which came to be posed
 before the Panel was whether the aforesaid legislative measure was
 compatible with the freedom of establishment and free movement of
 capital as guaranteed under the European Convention. It appears to
 have been asserted that the establishment of CFCs was in abuse of the
 freedom of establishment right as guaranteed. The Advocate General
 in his opinion pertinently observed as under: (Conversely, when the objectives of freedom of establishment have
 not been fulfilled, the company cannot rely on the provisions of article 43 EC: see R v Her Majesty's Treasury, Ex p Daily Mail
 and General Trust plc (Case 81/87) [1989] QB 446. In that case,
 the company Daily Mail, formed in accordance with the law of the
 United Kingdom, wished to transfer its central management and
 control outside that member state without losing its legal
 personality or ceasing to be a company incorporated in the United
 Kingdom, as provided for by the law of that member state. It
 disputed, however, that it had to submit to the condition provided
 for by that legislation requiring consent to be obtained from the
 Treasury. Daily Mail wished to transfer its central management to
 the Netherlands in order to be in a position, after establishing its
 residence for tax purposes in the Netherlands, to sell a significant
 part of its non-permanent assets and to use the proceeds of that sale
 to buy a part of its own shares, without having to pay the tax to
 which such transactions would make it liable under United
 Kingdom tax law. The Court of Justice held that Community law
 as it then stood did not preclude legislation such as that at issue
 because it conferred no right on companies incorporated under
 national law to transfer their central management and control to
 another member state while remaining companies of the member
 state under the legislation of which they were incorporated.)

 xxxx xxxx xxxx 53. To the same effect, it is also settled case law that the mere fact
 that a resident company establishes a secondary establishment in
 another member state cannot give rise to a general presumption of
 tax evasion or avoidance or justify a measure which compromises
 the exercise of a fundamental freedom guaranteed by the Treaty: The Advocate General in his opinion pertinently observes that the
 right to establish an enterprise is principally concerned with the
 motive to genuinely and actively pursue an economic activity in a
 member State. It was thus held that the reasons which may have
 weighed upon the parent company to establish or domicile a
 subsidiary cannot be called into question since the right to establish
 would flow from the treaty itself. It was further observed that the mere
 establishment of a subsidiary would not give rise to a general
 presumption of tax evasion or avoidance. 168. The Advocate General in his opinion thereafter proceeded to
 observe as follows: Accordingly, the court takes the view that in order for that
 justification to apply, the national legislation at issue must not
 apply ‗‗generally to all situations in which the majority of a group's
 subsidiaries are established, for whatever reason, outside the
 United Kingdom'' (Imperial Chemical Industries [1999] 1 WLR
 108, para 26) or concern ‗‗generally, any situation in which, for
 whatever reason, the transfer at undervalue is to a company
 established under the legislation of another member state [in which
 the transferor has a holding] or a branch set up in the Kingdom of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 148 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Sweden by such a company'' (X (Case C-436/00) [2002] ECR I-
 10829, para 61). xxxx xxxx xxxx 91. On the other hand, the national courts may, case by case and on
 the basis of objective evidence, take account of abuse or fraudulent
 conduct on the part of the persons concerned in order to deny them
 the benefit of the provisions of Community law on which they seek
 to rely: Centros Ltd v Erhvervs- og Selskabsstyrelsen (Case C-
 212/97) [2000] Ch 446, para 25, and X (Case C-436/00), para 42. 92. It follows that, in order to be capable of being justified by
 counteraction of tax avoidance, national legislation must not
 merely refer to a given situation in general terms but must enable
 the national court to refuse, case by case, the benefit of Community
 law to certain taxpayers or certain companies which have made use
 of an artificial arrangement for the purpose of avoiding tax.‖ 169. The aspect of establishment and the same being indelibly
 coupled to an actual pursuit of economic activity was again reiterated
 in paragraphs 106 and 107 which are reproduced hereinbelow: 170. The Advocate General ultimately came to the following
 conclusions: 171. In the judgment of the Court itself we find the following
 relevant observations: 10155, para 96.‖ 172. The right of the parent company to establish a secondary
 establishment while accorded due importance was made subject to it Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 150 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 being established that the aforesaid activity was premised on sound
 and justifiable economic considerations as would be evident from the
 following passages: Hohorst GmbH v Finanzamt Steinfurt (Case C-324/oo) [2oo2]
 ECR I-11779, para 37; De Lasteyvie du Saillant [2oo4] ECR I-
 24o9, para 50, and Marks & Spencer [2oo6] Ch 184, para 57. 52. It is necessary, in assessing the conduct of the taxable person,
 to take particular account of the objective pursued by the freedom
 of establishment: see, to that effect, Centros Ltd v Erhvervs- og
 Selskabsstyrelsen (Case C-212/97) [2ooo] Ch 446, para 25,and X v
 Riksskatteverket, para 42. 53. That objective is to allow a national of a member state to set up
 a secondary establishment in another member state to carry on his
 activities there and thus assist economic and social interpenetration
 within the Community in the sphere of activities as self-employed
 persons: see Reyners v Belgian State (Case 2/74) [1974] ECR 631,
 para 21. To that end, freedom of establishment is intended to allow
 a Community national to participate, on a stable and continuing
 basis, in the economic life of a member state other than his state of
 origin and to profit therefrom: Gebhard v Consiglio dell'Ordine
 degli Avvocati e Procuratori di Milano (Case C-55/94) [1995]
 ECR I-4165, para 25.‖ 173. Even the CJES frowned upon the creation of artificial
 arrangements and which did not reflect economic reality as would be
 manifest from the following observations forming part of that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 151 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 judgment: 174. The CJES in Cadbury ultimately held as under: 175. Closer to the present cause, is a more recent judgment rendered
 by the Upper Tribunal (Tax And Chancery Chamber) in Burlington
 Loan Management DAC v Revenue and Customs
 Commissioners63. The respondent before the Court was a resident in
 Ireland and subject to the UK-Republic of Ireland Double Taxation 63 [(2024) UKUT 152 (TCC)] Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 152 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 Convention. It was stated to have taken an assignment of a debt claim
 from SAAD Investments Company Ltd., a resident in the Cayman
 Islands. As a consequence of the aforesaid assignment, it became
 entitled to receive various payments connected to the administration of
 Lehman Brothers International, a company resident in the UK. The
 question which appears to have arisen before the Tribunal was
 whether the aforesaid assignment would fall foul of Article 12(5) of
 the Double Taxation Convention and which was asserted to constitute
 an anti-abuse measure. 176. The Tribunal took note of the position that if the assignment be
 valid, it would be taxable only in Ireland unless the anti-abuse
 measure applied. Article 12(5) of the Convention read as under:- 177. While explaining the meaning liable to be ascribed to Article
 12(5) , the Tribunal firstly propounded the basic principles which
 would govern treaty interpretation. This becomes evident from a
 reading of paragraph 43 which is reproduced hereinbelow:- 178. While seeking to identify the scope and ambit of Article 12(5) that Tribunal also took note of the Commentary on the OECD Model
 Convention as would be evident from the following passages of that
 decision: Such attempts may be countered by provisions or
 jurisprudential rules that are part of the domestic law of the
 State concerned. Such a State is then unlikely to agree to
 provisions of bilateral double taxation conventions that would
 have the effect of allowing abusive transactions that would
 otherwise be prevented by the provisions and rules of this kind
 contained in its domestic law. Also, it will not wish to apply its
 bilateral conventions in a way that would have that effect. 8. It is also important to note that the extension of double
 taxation conventions increases the risk of abuse by facilitating
 the use of artificial legal constructions aimed at securing the
 benefits of both the tax advantages available under certain Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 154 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 domestic laws and the reliefs from tax provided for in double
 taxation conventions. 9. This would be the case, for example, if a person (whether or
 not a resident of a Contracting State), acts through a legal
 entity created in a State essentially to obtain treaty benefits that
 would not be available directly. [...]
 9.1 This raises two fundamental questions that are discussed in
 the following paragraphs: These States, however, then consider that a proper construction
 of tax conventions allows them to disregard abusive
 transactions, such as those entered into with the view to
 obtaining unintended benefits under the provisions of these
 conventions. This interpretation results from the object and
 purpose of tax conventions as well as the obligation to interpret
 them in good faith (see Article 31 of the Vienna Convention on
 the Law of Treaties). 9.4 Under both approaches, therefore, it is agreed that States
 do not have to grant the benefits of a double taxation
 convention where arrangements that constitute an abuse of the
 provisions of the convention have been entered into.
 9.5 It is important to note, however, that it should not be
 lightly assumed that a taxpayer is entering into the type of
 abusive transactions referred to above. A guiding principle is
 that the benefits of a double taxation convention should not be
 available where a main purpose for entering into certain
 transactions or arrangements was to secure a more favourable
 tax position and obtaining that more favourable treatment in
 these circumstances would be contrary to the object and
 purpose of the relevant provisions. (our emphasis)
 [49] The commentary then goes on to observe that where specific
 avoidance techniques have been identified or are especially
 problematic, it will often be useful to include provision directly
 addressing the concern. At para 11, the commentary refers to a
 particularly prevalent form of ‗improper' use of the OECD model
 convention discussed in the Conduit Report. It notes that there has Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 155 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 been a ‗growing tendency towards the use of conduit companies to
 obtain treaty benefits not intended by the Contracting States' and
 how ‗this has led to an increasing number of member countries to
 implement treaty provisions (both general and specific) to counter
 abuse'. The commentary then discusses a wide number of examples
 of possible solutions open to member countries to deal with
 particular cases. Among the examples set out at para 21.4 under the
 heading ‗Anti-abuse rules dealing with source taxation of specific
 types of income' is a form of provision that is, in all material
 respects, the same as art 12(5) of the UK-Ireland treaty. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 [51] As noted in para 6 of the Conduit Report, the conduit company
 ‗takes advantage' of the treaty provisions but the economic benefit
 goes to a person (resident in State X) not entitled to use the treaty.
 The problem is created exclusively by the treaty itself: the domestic
 tax laws of the source country (in which the advantage arises) are
 adequate as the State generally taxes all non-residents (including
 the conduit company). Paragraph 7 of the Conduit Report explains
 why this is unsatisfactory: and which had taken note of the important role discharged by offshore
 entities and whose fiscal residence may be driven by the economic
 need to penetrate different markets around the world or as part of
 legitimate financial planning. 188. Both Azadi Bachao as well as Vodafone then proceeded to
 identify the contingencies where courts or tax authorities would be
 justified in questioning the character of the investment or the
 originating entity. While repelling the argument of entities in
 Mauritius being mere shells and of treaty shopping being unethical,
 the Supreme Court in Azadi Bachao Andolan held that if the
 Contracting States intended to deprive a particular category of entities
 from the benefits of the Convention, it would have been reasonably
 expected that a limitation of benefit provision were incorporated. The
 Supreme Court took note of the DTAA as it stood then in contrast to
 other Conventions and which provided for appropriate
 disqualifications. Their Lordships spoke of the significance of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 161 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 "disabling and disentitling conditions" being found in the DTAA
 itself. What clearly appears to flow from a reading of paragraphs 114
 to 117 of the report is of the Court in Azadi Bachao Andolan being of
 the firm opinion that once a person qualifies for benefits under the
 Convention it would be wholly incorrect to deny it those benefits
 based on arguments founded on the perceived unethicality of treaty
 shopping. The Azadi Bachao Andolan Court also bids us to bear in
 mind the need for disablement or disqualification being found in the
 Convention itself and thus it being an aspect best left for the
 consideration of the Contracting Nations as opposed to courts being
 called upon to invoke the principle of piercing the corporate veil. This
 was again emphasized when the Supreme Court held that once the
 DTAA were recognised as intended to override the provisions of the
 Act, it would be impermissible for national courts to lift the veil of
 incorporation. 189. In Vodafone, Kapadia CJ. propounded the tests of "abuse of
 organization form/legal form" and "without reasonable business
 purpose" as constituting some of the circumstances relevant for
 disentitlement. Vodafone proceeds to observe that where the
 transaction be a colourable device for distribution of profits or where
 the interposed entity be found to be a device or conduit, the Revenue
 may be entitled to apply the principles of substance over form and
 disregard the propounded character of the transaction. It proceeded
 further to acknowledge situations where the transaction be found on
 facts to be a complete sham, used as a camouflage for illegal activities
 as being some of the circumstances where a person may be denied the
 benefits of a treaty. The Supreme Court further cautioned the Revenue Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 162 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 from adopting a dissecting approach or seeking to doubt the validity
 of a transaction based on the assumption that it was designed as a tax
 deferment device. The decision underlines the imperative of the ―look
 at‖ doctrine being applied based on an evaluation of the transaction as
 a whole. Radhakrishnan J. while expounding on the extent of
 applicability of the lifting of the corporate veil principle pertinently
 observed that corporate structures would be liable to be ignored where
 it is misused for the accomplishment of a wrongful purpose or where
 it be found to be a mere façade. His Lordship observed that the
 aforenoted doctrine would be attracted where the transaction itself be
 found to be fraudulent, a sham, a circuitous device aimed at tax
 evasion. However, and notwithstanding these caveats, Radhakrishnan
 J. held that in the absence of a LOB clause coupled with the presence
 of Circular No. 789 of 2000 and the TRC, a Mauritian entity could not
 be denied benefits merely on the ground that the investment originated
 from that jurisdiction. His Lordship proceeded to hold that the mere
 establishment of a wholly owned subsidiary in Mauritius by principals
 having a genuine or substantially long-term investments in India "can
 never be considered" to have been "set up for tax evasion".
 Proceeding to speak of TRC, his Lordship held that the same would
 not prevent the Revenue from enquiring into ―tax fraud‖, illegal or
 sham transactions, colourable devices or adoption of dubious methods
 to evade taxes. However, and significantly his Lordship stoutly
 rejected the contention that a Mauritian investment would be
 considered legitimate only if it ―originates‖ from that nation and not
 investments from ―third countries‖. 190. The precedents handed down by our Supreme Court thus in
 unhesitating terms appear to have acknowledged and accepted the
 changed world order necessitating the cross-border movement of
 capital and investments and those in turn resulting in the creation of
 trans-national corporations, the incorporation of entities in different
 jurisdictions and thus facilitating investments in diverse parts of our
 interconnected world. These entities thus sought out domiciles which
 had an established treaty network, were cognizant of the new realities
 concerned with ease of business and were enabled to overcome
 barriers of time and place. Capital thus sought out new avenues and
 found itself funding opportunities then unknown and unthought of.
 The forever shrinking world order saw the birth of new investment
 highways created by nations aligning their common economic goals
 aimed at fulfilling the need of their people to find upliftment and
 prosperity. This march cannot possibly be stalled, legally or otherwise,
 by skepticism or distrust except on the basis of well-established
 parameters. 191. While much water has flown post Azadi Bachao Andolan and
 the BEPS initiatives adopted by nations across the globe, the tests to
 doubt the legitimacy of investments have remained more or less the
 same. All that has occurred is of nations becoming more aware and
 cognizant of devices and conduits which seek to exploit the positive
 measures adopted by nations to derive benefits from cross border trade
 and investments illegitimately and contrary to the avowed objectives
 of those conventions and the underlying interpretative precept of good
 faith. These are aspects which have also been underscored by two
 High Courts in Serco BPO and Sanofi. 192. This would constitute an appropriate juncture to take note of the
 executive response by India of the ethical concerns which were raised
 with respect to investments emanating from Mauritius. The first seeds
 of doubt pertaining to capital gains arising out of alienation of shares
 was considered in Circular No. 682 of 1994. The Union Government
 clarified that any gains derived by a Mauritian resident from alienation
 of shares would be taxable only in that country. Many years before the
 introduction of sub-section (4) in Section 90 and Rule 21AB in the
 Income Tax Rules 1962, the Union Government clarified vide
 Circular No. 789 of 2000 that a TRC would constitute sufficient
 evidence for accepting status of residence and beneficial ownership.
 Of seminal import were the amendments which were sought to be
 pushed through by virtue of Finance Bill 2013 and which sought to
 insert a provision in Section 90 intending to proclaim that while a
 TRC would be necessary to avail of treaty benefits, it would not
 constitute a sufficient basis for claiming benefits. As noticed
 hereinbefore, the said amendment was ultimately withdrawn as a
 consequence of a huge furore and the resounding negative clamour
 and opposition which came to be voiced in connection therewith. 193. More importantly we find that the position of the Union
 Government does not appear to have been opposed to what the
 Supreme Court ultimately held in Azadi Bachao Andolan and
 Vodafone. The Union as well as the Revenue appear to have accepted
 the legal position as enunciated in those two decisions and which had
 acknowledged the invocation of the substance over form principles to
 the confined and extremely narrow contingencies where the Revenue Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 165 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 may be recognised as being justified in questioning the motives of an
 investment transaction. M. TAX RESIDENCY CERTIFICATES 194. The position which emerges from the aforesaid discussion is
 that the Revenue would be justified in doubting the bona fides of a
 transaction if it be found to be an outright sham, designed to subserve
 an illegal motive or intended to achieve an illegal objective. Treaty
 shopping is not liable to be frowned upon unless it be established on
 facts as being motivated by an intent to evade tax and contrary to the
 underlying and stated objectives of the Contracting States. So also
 would be the case where parties adopt colourable devices and
 interpose entities to perpetrate tax fraud, abuse normative legal or
 organizational norms and entities are found to have been established
 without any economic or commercial considerations. It is only in
 cases where it be duly established or where no other conclusion can be
 possibly harboured but of the entity being found to be a conduit or a
 device lacking in commercial expediency and designed to perpetuate
 fraud that the Revenue would be justified in doubting the character of
 the transaction. Ultimately, the determinative would be a finding on
 facts that the entity is a mere artifice lacking any commercial
 substance. 195. Proceeding then to the issues which were raised with respect to
 the TRC, we deem it apposite to note that both Azadi Bachao Andolan
 as well as Vodafone had come to be rendered prior to a statutory
 regime with respect to residency having been put in place. The
 observations appearing in those two decisions would thus have to be
 appreciated bearing the mind that provisions for obtaining a TRC were Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 166 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 yet to be codified. However, we also cannot lose sight of the stand
 taken by the Revenue itself and which came to be expressed in the
 various circulars that came to be issued from time to time. Circular
 No. 789 of 2000 clearly held out that a TRC issued by Mauritian
 authorities would constitute sufficient evidence for determining fiscal
 residence and beneficial ownership. This circular further clarified that
 such a certificate would suffice even in respect of capital gains on sale
 of shares. 196. Then came the Finance Bill of 2013 which sought to introduce a
 provision which provided that a TRC would not be sufficient to claim
 benefits under a treaty. This proposed amendment was ultimately
 abandoned. The proposed amendment itself was sought to be
 explained away with the Press Release of 01 March 2013 in
 unequivocal terms explaining that proposed sub-section (5) was not
 intended to enable authorities to question the validity of such a
 certificate when produced. It was thus announced that TRCs' would
 be duly accepted and that the tax authorities would not go behind that
 certification and question resident status. 197. The position of a TRC and the extent to which it would be
 conclusive was succinctly explained by the Bombay High Court in Bid Services Division (Mauritius) Ltd. v. Authority for Advance
 Rulings (Income-tax) and Others65 when it held: - 198. The Punjab & Haryana High Court in Serco BPO took a
 narrower and stricter view when it held that once the TRC is found to
 have been duly issued by the Mauritian authorities, it would be
 impermissible for the Indian tax authorities to question the same since
 any other view would be destructive of the faith reposed by the
 Contracting States in the authorities of the respective States quite apart
 from being contrary to the position taken by the Union itself in
 Circular No. 789. We would, however, be inclined to affirm and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 169 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 follow the legal position as enunciated in Bid Services and which
 appears to have made adequate provision for situations where fraud or
 illegal activities be alleged. In any case, as would be evident from our
 conclusions on the legal issues which were canvassed, our decision
 does not rest on the mere fact that the petitioners hold a valid TRC. 199. The significance and the salutary purpose underlying the
 issuance of a TRC cannot be overemphasized. Its importance stands
 duly acknowledged by the Union Government itself as is manifest
 from a reading of Circular 789 of 2000. Of equal import is the
 withdrawal of the amendments which were proposed to be introduced
 in Section 90 and were ultimately shelved. It becomes important to
 note that a TRC once found to have been issued by the competent
 authority must be accorded due weightage and its sanctity duly
 acknowledged. The TRC represents the first level of certification of
 the holder being a bona fide business entity domiciled in the
 Contracting State. The issuance of a TRC constitutes a mechanism
 adopted by the Contracting States themselves so as to dispel any
 speculation with respect to the fiscal residence of an entity. It
 therefore can neither be cursorily ignored nor would the Revenue be
 justified in doubting the presumption of validity which stands attached
 to that certificate bearing in mind the position taken by the Union
 itself of it constituting ―sufficient evidence‖ of lawful and bona fide
 residence. Taking any other view would clearly be destructive of what
 Serco BPO aptly described as resulting in an erosion of faith and the
 trust reposed by the parties to the convention in each other. 200. Regard must also be had to the fact that when Vodafone was
 rendered, the DTAA was yet to incorporate provisions regulating Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 170 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 entitlement of benefits. The TRC concept came to be adopted
 subsequently followed by the incorporation of a specific LOB clause
 in the Treaty itself. The observations appearing in Vodafone are thus
 liable to be appreciated bearing in mind the crucial amendments which
 have subsequently come to be included in the DTAA. Even otherwise
 the observations appearing in Vodafone in the context of piercing of
 the corporate veil and the extent to which the Revenue could enquire
 and investigate despite a TRC were confined to cases of tax fraud,
 sham transactions, where the entity has no vestige of economic
 substance or the transaction is alleged to be aimed at camouflaging an
 illegality. These charges if raised would have to meet an extremely
 high and exacting standard of proof, since expressions such as fraud or
 sham though loosely used in common parlance, have a specific
 connotation in law. The Revenue would thus have to base such an
 allegation on cogent and convincing evidence as opposed to a mere
 conjecture, doubt or a perceived need to investigate and enquire. Such
 an allegation would have to be established at the outset itself before
 the Revenue being recognised as entitled to discard the presumption of
 validity which would spring into existence once a TRC is produced
 and the LOB conditions shown to be fulfilled. 201. Having reviewed the Indian position, we then deem it apposite
 to briefly dwell upon the international perspectives pertaining to treaty
 shopping. Action 6 of the BEPS Action Plan was principally
 concerned with the development of treaty provisions which would
 prevent the extension of benefits in inappropriate circumstances. Action 6 was responsible for the adoption of measures such as LOB
 clauses in treaties and the evolution of the PPT. As is evident from a
 reading of the OECD Commentary on Article 29 and which deals with
 Entitlement to Benefits, treaties incorporate disentitlement provisions
 to deprive persons who are otherwise not entitled to treaty benefits and
 who may adopt indirect methods to avail of those benefits and thus
 violate the bilateral and reciprocal understanding of Contracting States
 and which constitutes the foundation of all conventions. However,
 even the Commentary recognises and acknowledges the establishment
 of an entity for legitimate business reasons. It goes on to explain that
 where entities resident in a Contracting State undertakes business
 activities in that State, it would be inappropriate to characterize its
 activities as constituting treaty shopping. Cadbury Schweppes is yet
 another decision which holds that the mere establishment of a
 subsidiary in a favourable tax location would not in itself or per se
 amount to treaty shopping. It cautions against the adoption of a test
 which may amount to a "general presumption" of tax evasion or
 avoidance. Cadbury Schweppes lays emphasis on the charge of abuse
 or fraudulent conduct being based on objective evidence that may
 obtain in the facts of a particular case. 202. This decision, too thus reinforces our view that there cannot be
 an assumption of treaty shopping or abuse merely because a
 subsidiary or a related entity is established in a tax friendly
 jurisdiction. An allegation of abuse or fraudulent conduct would
 ultimately depend upon cogent material and evidence that may be
 found to exist in a particular case. In any case, the Revenue would be
 wholly unjustified in basing that view on a hypothetical and initial Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 172 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 presumption. Each case would thus have to be tested on the basis of
 facts which obtain and which require the Revenue to examine and
 ascertain whether actual and tangible business activity was undertaken
 by such an entity. What treaties abhor are artificial arrangements and
 those which fail to pass the test of economic reality. 203. Similar was the view expressed in Burlington and which was a
 tax convention case where the Court held that the guiding principle
 should be that of denial of treaty benefits where it be found that the
 main purpose of entering into a transaction was to secure a ―more
 favourable tax position‖ and where that favourable treatment would be
 "contrary to the object and purpose of the relevant provisions". Thus,
 the quest or search for a more favourable tax position would result in a
 disentitlement only if it were found that the extension of that benefit
 would be contrary to the underlying spirit of the treaty and its avowed
 objectives. Burlington too frowns upon abusive arrangements and
 transactions which fail to satisfy the economic substance test. 204. The position which thus emerges is that authorities across
 various jurisdictions appear to have taken the consistent position of
 treaty benefits being liable to be denied in cases where fraud is sought
 to be perpetrated, where the transaction is a mere sham, entities are
 mere dummies and have come to be created to merely act as conduits
 and where the extension of benefits would be contrary to the object
 and purpose of the treaty itself. However, a conclusion in that respect
 cannot be based on some unstated presumption of invalidity or
 founded upon a failure to holistically examine the transaction as a
 whole and the Revenue coming to the irresistible and justifiable
 conclusion that the sole intent of the transaction was to evade taxes, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 173 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 perpetuate an illegality and to obtain an inappropriate advantage. A
 finding based on objective evidence that the activity would fall in the
 category of an abusive transaction would constitute a sin qua non and
 a legal imperative before denial of benefits or the rendering of a
 verdict of disentitlement. O. LOB PROVISIONS IN THE DTAA 205. However, and insofar as the present case is concerned, the task
 of the Court becomes relatively easier in light of the DTAA itself
 embodying appropriate provisions designed to deprive an entity of
 benefits. The DTAA, post its amendment in 2016 and the insertion of
 Article 27A now and with sufficient clarity enumerates the
 circumstances in which an entity may be denied benefits of Article
 13(3B) or where it would be deemed to be a mere shell/conduit
 company. It defines a shell/conduit company as being one with
 negligible or nil business operations or one which fails to exhibit the
 carrying on of a real and continuous business. Paragraph 3 of Article
 27A then specifies the empirical standards on the basis of which the
 status of an entity is liable to be ascertained based upon the extent of
 its expenditure on operations. Of significant import is Paragraph 4 and
 which specifies the circumstances in which it would be impermissible
 to assume that the entity is a shell or a conduit company. Article 27A
 thus not only lays in place a criterion where an entity would be
 deemed to be a shell or a mere conduit as well as contingencies in
 which a negative legal fiction would operate and dispel any
 assumption of that entity being a shell or a mere artifice. The DTAA
 thus specifically adopts provisions concerned with entitlement to
 benefits and thus embodies standards and tests which both Contracting Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 174 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 States chose to adopt for the purposes of tackling instances of treaty
 shopping and abuse. 206. In our considered opinion, once LOB provisions come to be
 incorporated in a convention, it would be those provisions which
 would govern and be determinative of an allegation of treaty abuse or
 a benefit being illegitimately claimed. The doubts of the Revenue or
 the material that it may gather in support of its allegation of abuse
 would have to be demonstrative of the LOB provision being breached
 or violated. The right to question the validity or character of a
 transaction notwithstanding duly articulated LOB provisions being
 met would have to meet an extremely high, exacting and compelling
 standard of proof with the onus lying squarely upon the Revenue to
 establish that the substance of the transaction clearly warrants the
 entity being deprived of treaty benefits. These would stand confined to
 cases of fraud or sham, transactions tainted with illegality and where
 circumstances unerringly prove that the Contracting States never
 intended it to be covered by the beneficial treaty provisions. 207. The Contracting States having neither originally intended nor
 countenanced individual taxing authorities of those two States
 deploying their own standards and tests of probity is further evidenced
 from the LOB provisions having adopted verifiable and certifiable
 standards to dislodge any presumption of treaty abuse. In the facts of
 our case, we are additionally faced with a LOB clause which creates a
 negative legal fiction against such an assumption being harbored. Our
 view is further fortified from a reading of the proposed Article 27B
 and which links the issue of disentitlement to the objects and purpose
 of the various provisions of the treaty. In our considered opinion, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 175 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 taking another view would amount to recognizing the individual
 taxing authorities as being empowered under domestic legislation to
 create a disqualification criterion over and above that which the
 Contracting States chose to adopt. It would in essence amount to
 recognizing a jurisdiction inhering in the taxing authorities of
 respective States to question the validity of a transaction on
 parameters wholly alien to the treaty and contrary to the negotiated
 terms. 208. In our considered view, therefore, the TRC as well as the LOB
 provisions comprised in the DTAA more than adequately, nay
 comprehensively, address themselves to treaty abuse and it would thus
 be wholly impermissible for the Revenue to construct additional
 barriers or qualification standards for the purposes of extending
 benefits under the DTAA. This would of course be subject to the
 limited caveat and narrow confines of fraud, illegal activity or where
 the transaction be contrary to the underlying objective and purpose of
 the treaty itself. Such conclusions would have to additionally meet the
 stringent degree of proof that we have spoken of in the preceding parts
 of this decision. We arrive at this conclusion bearing in mind the
 various Circulars issued by the Union from time to time, the roll back
 of the proposed 2013 amendment as well as the fact that despite the
 treaty having been renegotiated and amended in 2016, the Contracting
 States chose to carefully articulate the contingencies in which benefits
 could be denied and specified the qualification standards. 209. It is also pertinent to recall that Article 27A came to be included
 in the DTAA at a time when Chapter X-A had already come to exist
 on the statute book in terms of Finance Act, 2013 and with effect from Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 176 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 01 April 2016. The Contracting States being aware of the aforesaid as
 well as other significant amendments, including those pertaining to
 taxation of indirect transfers, made to the Act chose to grandfather all
 transactions pertaining to alienation of shares and which had been
 consummated prior to 01 April 2017. What we seek to emphasise is
 the Contracting States being fully conscious of the legislative
 amendments which had occurred in their respective taxing statutes and
 chose to renegotiate the terms of the treaty in that light. We thus find
 ourselves unable to recognise an authority inhering in the Revenue to
 create additional barriers or invent novel grounds for disentitlement. P. THE ECONOMIC SUBSTANCE QUESTION 210. Quite apart from the above, we find ourselves unable to sustain
 the view taken by the AAR in light of the following undisputed facts
 which exist on the record. Undisputedly the petitioners came to be
 incorporated in Mauritius in 2011. They hold a Category 1 GBL
 granted under the Financial Services Act, 2007 and are regulated by
 the Financial Services Commission of Mauritius. They are stated to
 have aggregated funds from more than 500 investors domiciled across
 30 jurisdictions worldwide. It was their consistent stand that they had
 been incorporated to act as pooling vehicles for funds received from
 various investors. The details of their principal shareholders have
 already been noted in the preceding parts of this decision. TGM LLC
 was the investment manager/management company a crucial fact
 which has been lost sight of by the respondents and who had
 proceeded on the incorrect premise that it was the holding or the
 parent company. The assertion of the petitioner that TGM LLC neither
 held shares nor had it made any investments in them has gone Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 177 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 unrebutted. Both the respondents as well as the AAR appear to have
 proceeded on the incorrect premise that the petitioner had admitted to
 TGM LLC being the holding company despite the pleadings and the
 material which existed on the record and which clearly asserted to the
 contrary. 211. The initial shares which the petitioners acquired in Flipkart
 Singapore were issued against a capital contribution of USD
 109,020.10. As the Minutes of the Board Meeting records, the initial
 investment was to be preceded by the extension of a Bridge Loan of
 USD 15 million. The entire stock holding was acquired between
 October 2011 to April 2015. The introduction of the LOB provisions
 in the DTAA, the tax implications arising out of sale of shares were
 facts duly disclosed and acknowledged in its Financial Statement
 which forms part of our record as Annexure P-12. Flipkart Online had
 made a slump sale of its India business in December 2011. The
 petitioners transferred their holding in Flipkart Online to Fit Holdings
 SARL, a company incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg on 18
 August 2018. The petitioner is also stated to have incurred expenditure
 amounting to USD 1,063,709 roughly translating to MUR 36,436,182
 as against the threshold of MUR 1,500,000 as prescribed in Article
 27A. From the Financial Statement [P/12] for the period ending 31
 December 2017 of Tiger Global II we further find that its total
 liabilities and shareholders' equity stood at USD 1,764,819,299. The
 net increase in shareholders equity resulting from operations was
 pegged at USD 267,633, 593. Based on the aforesaid facts and which
 have remained uncontested or questioned, we find ourselves unable to
 hold that the petitioners lacked economic substance, had not Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 178 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 undertaken any economic activity or were domiciled in Mauritius
 solely for the purposes of treaty abuse. Q. CHAPTER X-A AND GAAR 212. At this juncture, we deem it appropriate to briefly recapitulate
 the arguments made by learned counsels in relation to the applicability
 of the provisions of GAAR. To recall, Mr. Srivastava had submitted
 that Chapter X-A which came to be introduced by the Finance Act,
 2013 gave effect to sub-section (2-A) of Section 90 which came into
 effect from 01 April 2013. Learned special counsel further submitted
 that the provisions of Chapter X-A placed a reverse burden of proof
 qua Impermissible Avoidance Arrangements and additionally laid
 down the repercussions which would ensue against arrangements
 purported to be lacking in commercial substance and those
 constituting impermissible tax arrangements. Mr. Srivastava had
 additionally commended for our acceptance the position that
 notwithstanding the grandfathering clause contained in Rule
 10U(1)(d), Rule 10U(2) mandated the applicability of Chapter X-A
 provisions to arrangements regardless of the date in which they were
 entered into and with respect to tax benefits availed with respect to the
 said arrangements on or after 01 April 2017. 213. In summation, learned counsel for the respondents had
 essentially argued that even if an arrangement may have been entered
 into prior to 01 April 2017, the taxation benefits emanating from the
 said arrangement on or after 01 April 2017 would be subjected to
 Chapter X-A provisions. Mr. Srivastava, while proceeding on the
 basis of us being inclined to accept the aforenoted contentions, took us
 through the provisions of Section 97 and 98 to explain when an Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 179 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 arrangement could be said to be lacking in commercial substance and
 the consequences that would arise as a result thereof. In view of the
 above, Mr. Srivastava argued that the transaction in question would
 fail to satisfy the tests of bona fide purposes, commercial substance
 and would accordingly be liable to face the repercussions as envisaged
 under Section 98 . 214. Responding to those submissions, Mr. Kaka firstly drew our
 attention to the fact that the respondents had failed to render formal
 pleadings with respect to GAAR at any stage. However and without
 prejudice to the aforesaid it was contended that the provisions of
 GAAR were inapplicable in light of Rule 10U(1)(d) rendering Chapter
 X-A inapplicable to income derived by persons from investments
 made before 01 April 2017 and that Rule 10U(2) could not be read in
 a manner inconsistent with Rule 10U(1)(d) despite the former
 comprising of a ―without prejudice‖ clause. Learned counsel
 additionally submitted that Section 101 explicitly provides that GAAR
 ought to be applied in accordance with conditions that may be
 prescribed, such as those appearing in CBDT Circular No. 7 of 2017
 and which we propose to advert to in greater detail in subsequent parts
 of this decision. Mr. Kaka had also argued that GAAR cannot be
 invoked once anti-abuse rules such as LOB clauses within taxation
 treaties are satisfied. 215. Prior to examining the correctness of the rival submissions
 addressed on this score, we deem it appropriate to provide a brief
 background pertaining to the formative history behind the enactment
 of the GAAR provisions. GAAR was first introduced on 16 March
 2012 in the Finance Bill 2012 and draft guidelines to GAAR came to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 180 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 be released on 28 June 2012. Subsequent to the release of the said
 guidelines, an Expert Committee came to be constituted on 17 July
 2012 consisting of Dr. Parthasarathi Shome and three others, to
 undertake consultations with myriad stakeholders, provide clarity on
 the legal conundrum arising as a result of the introduction of the said
 provisions and thereby finalize guidelines for application of GAAR.
 Accordingly, the Expert Committee submitted its report on 30
 September 2012 and which came to be referred to as the ―Shome
 Committee Report‖. We find that the said report renders illuminating
 recommendations which may aid us in addressing the arguments
 articulated in relation to the applicability of Chapter X-A. 216. The Shome Committee Report observed that GAAR constituted
 an advanced instrument of tax administration intending to encourage
 deterrence of tax avoidance measures as opposed to the facilitation of
 revenue generation. The Government of India was stated to find tax
 mitigation measures, which impliedly suggests the utilization of tax
 incentives in a legal and transparent manner so as to achieve tax
 efficiency, to be unobjectionable. It was observed that while tax
 evasion is universally considered to be illegal, tax avoidance measures
 on the other hand represents a grey area for tax authorities, since
 though such measures teetered the line of legality and could dependent
 upon the facts be viewed as contravening the spirit underlying taxation
 treaties. 217. It was in that backdrop that GAAR was introduced so as to
 target tax avoidance by means of concrete legislation.
 Notwithstanding the technical legality of tax avoidance, the same was
 understood to represent tax planning with the sole objective of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 181 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 availing tax benefits without any other commercial, economic or
 business purpose. The Shome Committee Report accordingly took the
 view that GAAR provided the legal framework and mechanism
 necessary for examining the purpose behind business structures, albeit
 from the narrow purview of examining transactions for evaluation of
 misuse or abuse, so as to determine if the same would fall within the
 ambit of tax avoidance. The Shome Committee Report took the view
 that tax avoidance posed a significant risk of furthering discrepancies
 in the tax burdens imposed upon comparable taxpayers and among
 differently placed businesses, diminished the ability of the State to
 collect revenue and distorted allocation of resources which was
 undoubtedly undesirable in economic terms. Accordingly, it was
 deemed to be counterproductive to enable taxpayers to avail of legal
 paradigms to structure their businesses and transactions so as to avoid
 tax. 218. It was in the aforesaid backdrop that the Shome Committee
 Report emphasized the importance of subjecting to tax the ―correct
 tax base‖, encourage caution against aggressive tax planning measures
 and highlighted the prevailing international practices of codifying the
 substance over form approach. The following observations thus came
 to be rendered in the Indian context: - 219. The Shome Committee Report contemplated tax mitigation to
 be an ―intended consequence of the legislation‖ and to be an ―attempt
 to minimize tax liability by the taxpayer as per existing law‖.
 Therefore, it was suggested that tax mitigation not only meets the
 threshold of legality in technical terms but is also consistent with the
 letter and spirit of the enactment, although the same may not equally
 apply to tax avoidance. It was accordingly stated to be of utmost
 importance to distinguish the two. It was in the aforesaid light that the
 Shome Committee Report laid down an illustrative but ―non-
 exhaustive‖ negative list of those circumstances which would
 constitute tax mitigation and accordingly preclude the applicability of
 GAAR provisions. That list was populated as under: 220. Accordingly, the Shome Committee Report came to conclude as
 follows: 221. The Shome Committee Report additionally took note of the
 concerns raised by various stakeholders regarding the potential
 retrospective applicability of GAAR provisions. As a result, the
 Committee recommended that GAAR be applicable only to income
 received, accruing or arising or deemed to accrue or arise to the
 taxpayer on or after the date from which the GAAR provisions come
 into effect. This is evident from the following recommendations made
 by the Committee: - 222. Speaking specifically on Circular 789 of 2000, the Committee
 pertinently observed: - 223. The Committee accordingly opined that anti-avoidance rules
 would play an important role in the prevention of abuse of tax treaties.
 Reliance in that respect was placed on the OECD commentary on the
 Model Convention to hold that if GAAR contemplates situations that
 are not reflected in taxation treaties then GAAR may be invoked as
 there would be no conflict between the two, but in situations where the
 treaty itself contemplates anti-avoidance provisions, such as LOB
 clauses, then such provisions ought not be substituted by GAAR and
 the latter would not override the provisions of the treaty. The
 Committee had resultantly recommended as follows:- 224. Circular No. 7 of 2017 came to be issued by the CBDT on 27
 January 2017 titled ―Clarifications on implementation of GAAR
 provisions under the Income Tax Act ‖ and in terms of which the
 following pertinent clarifications came to be issued: - 225. To recall, Mr. Srivastava had addressed extensive submissions
 on the scope and applicability of Chapter X-A and the statutory
 GAAR provisions which find place in that section of the Act. It was
 the submission of learned Special Counsel that the provisions of
 GAAR would stand attracted and operate above and beyond the
 prescriptions in the DTAA concerned with entitlement of benefits.
 Faced with Article 13(3A) of the DTAA, it was submitted that sub-
 section (2A) of Section 90 is a clear indicator of the intent of the
 Legislature to accord an overriding effect upon the provisions
 contained in Chapter X-A and the Revenue thus being entitled to test a
 transaction on principles laid out in that section of the Act. Mr.
 Srivastava had also based his submissions on Rule 10U(2) to submit
 that the determinate date of 01 April 2017 stands overridden and
 would not save the transaction in question. Although the AAR has not
 alluded to GAAR or the various provisions comprised in Chapter X-
 A, since lengthy arguments were addressed on this score, we deem it
 appropriate to render the following observations. 226. However, and before we proceed down this path, it would be
 pertinent to note that it was the conceded position of parties of Article
 13(3A) being of critical importance for the purposes of adjudging
 whether the transaction stood grandfathered and placed in a safe
 harbour. This since undisputedly the shares in question were acquired
 prior to 01 April 2017. Our observations are thus not intended to
 constitute a broad enunciation on the scope of applicability of Chapter
 X-A and the extent to which statutory GAAR would override treaty
 provisions. We are in the facts of the present case, essentially
 concerned with whether Chapter X-A could have any application in
 light of the grandfathering clause comprised in the treaty read
 alongside the provisions of the Act. 227. It must at the outset be noted that Paragraph 3A of Article 13 clearly embodies the intent of the Contracting States to safeguard and
 provide safe passage to all transactions which had been consummated
 prior to 01 April 2017. As noticed above, these amendments came to
 be introduced after our Act had adopted the principles of taxing
 indirect transfers and where shares may derive a substantial value
 from assets situate in India. Quite apart from the unambiguous
 language and apparent intent informing Paragraph 3A and being
 representative of the avowed objective to tax capital gains emanating
 from a sale of shares acquired after the determinate date, we find a
 replication of that intent in Paragraph 3B which prescribes two
 separate tax rates for the period beginning 01 April 2017 up to 31
 March 2019 and thereafter. Article 13 for obvious reasons does not
 prescribe a tax rate for capital gains pertaining to shares acquired prior
 to 01 April 2017. Similarly, the LOB provision also stands restricted Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 188 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 to gains covered under Article 13(3B). There is thus a clear and
 evident intent of the Contracting States to leave out capital gains that
 may arise or accrue with respect to shares acquired prior to the stated
 date. 228. Faced with the above, Mr. Srivastava then sought to rely upon
 Rule 10 U (2) to submit that the transaction in question would not
 stand grandfathered. That submission proceeded on the premise that
 since sub-rule (2) commences with the phrase ―without prejudice to
 the provisions of clause (d) of sub-rule (1)....", benefits that may
 accrue after 01 April 2017 would become subject to the provisions of
 Chapter X-A. We find ourselves unable to sustain that submission for
 reasons which follow. 229. It must at the outset be noted that we should eschew from
 interpreting a provision appearing in domestic tax legislation in a
 manner which brings it in direct conflict with a treaty provision. We
 must also desist from interpreting domestic legislation as seeking to
 override provisions contained in a DTAA. That, as we had held in Commissioner of Income Tax- International Taxation-3 v. Telstra
 Singapore Pte Ltd.66 , would be wholly impermissible. We had in that
 judgment held that adoption of such a line of reasoning would amount
 to accepting the right of the Legislature of one of the States to
 unilaterally amend or override provisions of a treaty. While rejecting
 such a contention we had in Telstra ultimately held as follows: - 230. More fundamentally, accepting the submission of Mr.
 Srivastava would lead us to recognise a delegatee of the Legislature
 while framing subordinate legislation being competent to override a
 treaty provision. A subordinate legislation would thus stand elevated
 to a status over and above a treaty entered into by two nations in
 exercise of their sovereign power itself. We thus find the argument
 based on Rule 10 U wholly unmerited. 231. Apart from the above, if the argument of Mr. Srivastava were to
 be accepted, it would amount to sub-rule (2) immediately taking away
 what stood saved in the immediately preceding provision, namely,
 clause (d) of sub-rule (1). If the submission of Mr. Srivastava were to
 be upheld, it would lead to a wholly irreconcilable conflict between
 the two aforenoted provisions. However, the arguments addressed
 along the aforesaid lines are clearly erroneous since it fails to consider
 the meaning liable to be ascribed to the expression ―without prejudice
 to.....‖ which appears in sub-rule (2). That expression was pithily
 explained by the Supreme Court in ITO Vs. Gwalior Rayon Silk
 Manufacturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.67 as neither being inconsistent
 with or prejudicial to the preceding rule. The relevant passage from
 that decision is extracted hereunder: - We find ourselves in complete agreement with this view. Section
 220(3) merely empowers the Income Tax Officer to extend the
 time for payment or allow payment by instalments on such
 conditions as he may impose. In the instant case the Income Tax
 Officer merely exercised his powers under sub-section (3) of Section 220 by imposing the condition that the assessee shall be
 allowed to pay the arrears by instalments if he paid interest at the
 rate of 5% per annum offered by him. What is important however,
 is that sub-section (3) is not independent of sub-section (2) but is
 interconnected with it. The words ―without prejudice to the
 provisions contained in sub- section (2)‖ clearly show that any
 order passed by the Income Tax officer under sub-section (3) must
 neither be inconsistent with nor prejudicial to the provisions
 contained in sub-section (2). In other words, the Position is that
 although sub-section (3) is an independent provision the power
 under this sub-section has to be exercised subject to the terms and
 conditions mentioned in sub-section (2) so far as they apply to the
 facts mentioned in sub-section (3). Thus if sub-section (2) of Section 220 provided that the rate of interest chargeable would be
 four per cent per annum any order passed under sub-section (3)
 could not vary that rate, and if it did, then the order to that extent
 would stand superseded. The argument of the assessee is that sub-
 sections (2) and (3) of Section 220 were independent provisions
 which operated in fields of their own. We are, however, unable to
 accept this somewhat broad proposition of law. Sub-sections (2)
 and (3) form part of the same section, namely, Section 220 , and are
 therefore closely allied to each other. It is no doubt true that the
 two sub- sections deal with separate issues but the non obstante
 clause of sub-section (3) clearly restricts the order passed under
 sub-section (3) to the conditions mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 220 of the Act.‖

 R. BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP 232. Proceeding on the premise that TGM LLC was the controlling
 entity of the writ petitioners, Mr. Srivastava, had also sought to impute
 the principles of beneficial ownership to the transaction in question. It
 was the submission of learned counsel that although the monies from Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 191 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 the sale of shares were ostensibly received by the writ petitioners, the
 same was beneficially held for and on behalf of TGM LLC. 233. Quite apart from us having already found that the assumption of
 TGM LLC being the parent entity being incorrect on facts, we note
 that the principles of beneficial ownership itself would have arisen
 provided it were established that the petitioner, TG III and TG IV
 were contractually or otherwise acting on behalf of TGM LLC and
 were enjoined to remit all revenues generated by the transaction in
 question to a third party. The principle of beneficial ownership would
 have been attracted provided the respondents were able to establish
 that the petitioner, TG III and TG IV were placed under a contractual
 or legal obligation to pass on the payments received to another entity. 234. We note, in this connection, that while there is one school of
 thought which advocates the principles of beneficial ownership being
 concerned with the creation of conduit companies, the other view
 seems to suggest that beneficial ownership is essentially a rule with
 respect to attribution of income. However, and as would be evident
 from the discussion which ensues, the OECD Model Commentary
 canvasses a position where beneficial ownership and aspects
 pertaining thereto would have to be evaluated on the basis of the
 "forwarding approach". 235. In the series on Tax Treaty Entitlement68, the subject has been
 examined by Florian Navisotschnigg and where the learned author
 explains the principles of forwarding approach in the following
 terms:- 236. Proceeding further to explain beneficial ownership on a more
 fundamental plane, the learned author makes the following pertinent
 observations:- 237. The author proceeded to formulate the following conclusion:- 238. Angelika Meindl Ringler, in her work titled "Beneficial
 Ownership in International Tax Law"69 offers the following
 insights. Referring firstly to Klaus Vogel's work on double taxation
 conventions, Meindl Ringler observes:- 239. Noticing the explanation of the precept of beneficial ownership
 as explained by Philip Baker, the learned author observes as under:- 240. The emphasis laid on ownership attributes while examining the
 aspect of beneficial ownership as advocated by yet another leading
 authority on international tax planning was noted by Meindl Ringler in
 the following terms:- 241. The learned author proceeded to summarize the legal position
 as under:- 242. As is manifest from the aforesaid passages and the views
 expressed by leading authorities on international tax planning,
 emphasis is essentially laid on the facet of ownership attributes. The
 views so expressed thus bid us to discern a legal obligation which
 binds the recipient to forward the income to another person. The views
 expressed commends the question to be posed being whether the
 intermediary could claim the income for its own account and benefit.
 It thus proposes that if it were found that the conduit was able to avail
 the income itself, and was not contractually obligated to forward that
 income to another person, it would clearly be incorrect to impute the
 principles of beneficial ownership in such a contextual setting. The
 core of the aforesaid precepts would appear to be aspects of ownership
 and control over the income, a right of disposal or a contractual
 obligation to pass on the same to another. 243. Both Vogel and Baker thus bid us to ascertain and discern the
 true controller of the income, the entity which decides the use of the
 asset and the income and which could also include an administrator or
 trustee. Tested on the basic rule of substance over form, the concept of
 beneficial owner would get attracted to cases where the recipient of
 income or the holder of the asset is found to be merely the ostensible
 depository and which may hold the income either in the capacity of an
 administrator or even as a trustee. For this charge to be accepted, it
 would have to be established that the recipient or holder of income has
 no right or control over the income and merely holds the same to be
 deployed on the instruction of another. While the obligation to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 200 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 forward the income or gain may be either legal or contractual
 dependent upon the position of parties, it would certainly require a
 finding on fact that the income is held at the behest of another, is
 controlled and regulated by a third party entity and the ostensible
 owner having no real or substantive control over the same. 244. Tested on the aforesaid precepts, it becomes manifest that the
 allegation of the revenue earned from the transfer of shares being
 beneficially held by the petitioner, TG III and TG IV is thoroughly
 misconceived and untenable. This since the respondents do not rest or
 found this allegation on any material or evidence which may be read
 as even remotely suggestive of the petitioners being under a
 contractual or legal obligation to transmit the revenues to TGM LLC.
 The respondents also do not base these submissions on any material
 which may have tended to indicate that the revenue obtained from the
 transfer of shareholding was an action undertaken by the writ
 petitioners acting for and on behalf of TGM LLC. In fact and as was
 noted by us in the preceding parts of this decision, the allegation of
 beneficial ownership itself rested on straws with the respondents still
 seeking to discover the ultimate beneficiaries of the revenue earned
 from the transfer of shares. 245. The reliance placed on Aditya Birla Nuvo was also clearly
 misconceived since that was a decision which proceeded on the basis
 of the existence of a ―permitted transferee‖. It becomes pertinent to
 note that on facts the Bombay High Court had clearly found that AT
 & T Mauritius was a permitted transferee of AT & T USA. It had also
 held that AT & T Mauritius had made payments towards the equity
 shares of the JVC for and on behalf of the AT& T USA. What also Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 201 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 appears to have weighed upon that High Court on facts was the RBI
 approval to the transaction itself proceeding on the basis of the JVA
 and which had contemplated the shares allotted to the Mauritian entity
 ultimately vesting in the US principal. It was in the aforesaid facts that
 the High Court came to hold that the Mauritian entity was a permitted
 transferee of AT & T USA. It ultimately came to hold that the TRC
 held by AT & T Mauritius would be of no avail. 246. It would be pertinent to recall that Mr. Srivastava had argued
 that the petitioners had not disclosed the identity of the entity who
 may have received the sale consideration. However, and in the
 absence of any material or evidence on which the assertion of
 beneficial ownership was sought to be founded, we are constrained to
 observe that the submission noticed above proceeded on mere
 surmises and conjectures. This, since the respondents have not pointed
 to any evidence of the revenue obtained by the petitioner, TG III and
 TG IV having been forwarded to a third party. The search for the
 ultimate recipient too proceeds on the conjecture and premise that the
 revenue may have been transmitted to a third party. Quite apart from
 such a course being wholly arbitrary and purely conjectural, we are of
 the firm opinion that an allegation of income being beneficially held
 cannot be sustained on mere surmises or an avowed intent to
 investigate and probe. The allegation would have to rest on a sounder
 footing and shown to be plausible from the material on record. S. OUR SUMMATION 247. In summation we would hold as under. Mauritius and entities
 domiciled in that nation are neither liable to be viewed on a negative
 plane nor are they obliged to satisfy a separate standard of legitimacy. The stand struck by the two Contracting States clearly dispels any
 assumption of a roll back of the Mauritian Route or an avowed intent
 to place residents of that nation to a stricter degree of proof. The data
 relating to investments flowing from that nation and in terms of the
 facilitative DTAA regime lays all doubts, in this respect, to rest. The
 tests of a legitimate investment stand duly incorporated in the DTAA
 and the various Protocols entered into from time to time representing
 the exclusion of those which are not intended to reap the benefits of
 the Convention. The adoption of the LOB provisions was clearly
 intended to subserve those objectives. The intent of the Contracting
 States to adhere to the globally accepted standard of substance over
 form stands further fortified from the recent Protocol which has been
 executed and is yet to be notified. 248. The establishment of an investment vehicle in a tax friendly
 destination, in today's time, is neither considered to be an anathema
 nor does it, ipso facto, give rise to a presumption of tax evasion or
 treaty abuse. The thread which permeates and continues to be the
 constant of all taxing conventions is the test of underlying object and
 intent of Contracting Nations and the subjects who were intended to
 avail benefits of such treaties. The object of such treaties is principally
 aimed at aiding global commerce, transcending trade barriers and the
 mutual benefit that nations may reap from reciprocal arrangements. 249. Corporate structuring which enables businesses to access
 jurisdictions and markets is today accepted as the global norm. It
 constitutes the new standard of cross-border commerce. This
 necessarily entails corporate entities incorporating units and
 subsidiaries which register their footprint across jurisdictions. It would Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 203 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 be fundamentally incorrect to view such structuring as being
 motivated by ulterior motives or a design to reap illegitimate benefits.
 The precept of piercing the corporate veil owes its genesis to striking
 at illegality, attempts to perpetuate fraud and abuse of benefits. Unless
 it be found and established that such structuring is designed to obtain
 illegitimate or illegal gains, abuse the underlying objective of
 conventions, it would be wholly erroneous to place such entities under
 an initial or negative burden of proof. 250. Those precepts when juxtaposed with the favourable foundation
 which Mauritius laid in place for businesses to base themselves in that
 island nation leads us to hold that the Revenue would be clearly
 obliged to meet a high standard of proof when alleging avoidance and
 abuse. Our view in this regard stands further fortified from the various
 clarificatory directives issued by the Union from time, the roll back of
 the 2013 amendments and the amending Protocols which came to be
 signed from time to time. Those executive actions were clearly aimed
 at allaying and squashing any preconceived notions that may have
 been harboured. 251. As the Supreme Court explained in Azadi Bachao Andolan and
 Vodafone, treaties are formulated by nations in exercise of their
 sovereign powers. These are based on political and economic
 considerations. It is not for us to question or doubt the validity of such
 reciprocal arrangements. It is for the contracting parties to delineate
 the qualifying conditions which must be met and adhered to by parties
 seeking to avail the benefits thereof. It would be wholly incorrect for
 courts to conjure or create disqualifications or grounds of deprivation
 in addition or over and above those adopted by contracting parties. This more so in light of the Act itself conferring an overriding and
 supervening sheen on such conventions. Section 90 and the scheme of
 the Act itself is a testament of the legislative intent. We had an
 occasion in Telstra to notice the interplay between domestic
 legislation and treaty provisions in some detail. That decision had also
 taken note of the consistent position struck by courts and which had
 spoken in unison of treaty benefits not being overridden by provisions
 contained in domestic laws. This basic principle was propounded
 bearing in mind the sanctity which attaches to a treaty and a party
 thereto being restrained from attempting to scuttle its provisions by
 resort to the devise of unilateral amendments. 252. It is this central theme which imbues Section 90(2) of the Act
 and confers an overriding effect upon provisions of a treaty. A subject
 thus is enabled to revert to a provision contained in domestic
 legislation only if it be more beneficial. Section 90(2A) and the
 GAAR family of provisions seek to provide a statutory basis for
 taxing authorities to ascertain whether a transaction can be said to be
 contrary to the underlying intent and objectives of the Contracting
 States. 253. However, and in the facts of our case, we have found that
 Chapter X-A would be inapplicable in light of Article 13(3A) of the
 DTAA and which grandfathers all acquisitions prior to 01 April 2017.
 The clear intent of the Contracting States to ring-fence those
 transactions is evident not just from the plain language of Article
 13(3A) but additionally fortified by the stated language of Rule 10U
 (1) (d). We have also negatived the argument based on Rule 10U (2)
 and have found that the same does not override or eclipse the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 205 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 protection accorded by clause (d) of Rule 10U(1). In view of the
 above, the circumstances and the extent to which Chapter X-A may
 apply needs no further elaboration. 254. Subsidiaries are ordained by law to have a distinct and
 independent legal persona and which is liable to be ignored only in
 rare contingencies. Absent apparent and evident attempts at sustaining
 or perpetuating fraud, camouflaging sham transactions, shroud an
 illegality, the said precept is not liable to be readily or lightly invoked.
 It is only in cases where it is found that the entity so created has no
 apparent or real economic substance that one would be justified in
 imputing that precept. As our Supreme Court lucidly explains, the
 sheen of corporate personality is liable to be ignored where the entity
 be found to have been created to perpetuate an illegality or where it is
 found to have no real personality having been merely interposed to
 overcome legal requirements and barriers. It is in the aforesaid context
 that the Supreme Court spoke of entities being puppets and lacking in
 economic substance. 255. When tested on the aforenoted basic principles and viewed in
 light of the facts of our case, the position which emerges is as follows.
 The petitioner, III and IV clearly appear to have been incorporated to
 act as pooling investment vehicles to access new markets and
 opportunities. The petitioners came to be domiciled in Mauritius
 principally on account of the investor friendly environment prevalent
 in that nation and the bouquet of bilateral trade agreements to which it
 was a party. It was on that basis that the petitioners also obtained
 Category 1 GBLs under the Financial Services Act, 2007. The
 petitioners made substantial investments in Flipkart Singapore Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 206 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 between the years 2011 to 2015. The transfer of holding took place in
 2018 as part of a larger takeover scheme spearheaded by Walmart Inc.
 The petitioners were entrusted with funds provided by as many as 500
 individual investor entities situate in 30 jurisdictions across the globe.
 The placement of those funds clearly comes across as a prudent
 commercial decision since it enabled the writ petitioners to deploy
 those funds and make capital investments rather than its
 shareholders/investors making individual forays. The extent and
 quantum of investments made by the petitioner, TG III and TG IV, the
 period for which those investments were held, the expenditure
 incurred in Mauritius when considered cumulatively clearly dispels
 any assumption of they lacking in economic substance. In fact, one of
 the initial investments was also backed by the furnishing of a bridge
 loan by the petitioner to Flipkart Singapore. 256. The petitioner, TG III and TG IV held valid TRC's as well as a
 Category 1 GBL issued by the competent authority in Mauritius. The
 writ petitioners also qualified the LOB stipulations as embodied in the
 DTAA. Of significance is the legal fiction comprised in Article 27A
 and which forbids one from viewing an entity as a conduit once the
 conditions prescribed therein are satisfied and met. These aspects not
 only merited due consideration but were also liable to be accorded
 rightful treatment and weight bearing in mind the provisions of the
 DTAA. 257. The petitioners undisputedly qualified the fiscal prescriptions
 stipulated in Article 27A of the DTAA. The shares were ultimately
 transferred in August 2018. The aforesaid transfer or the ultimate
 divestment of shareholding was stated to be a part of a broader Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 207 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 transaction involving the acquisition of Flipkart Singapore by
 Walmart Inc. All of the above clearly convinces us to hold that the
 submissions addressed in the context of economic substance are
 clearly untenable. 258. It is also pertinent to recall that the petitioner, TG III and TG IV
 made the investments in Flipkart Singapore on the strength of funds
 which were provided by its equity shareholders. It was their
 categorical case that those funds did not originate from TGM LLC and
 that in fact, the said entity was not even an equity partner in any of the
 petitioners. The charts and the holding structure as depicted by the
 respondents proceeded on the unsubstantiated allegation that the said
 entity was the parent or the holding entity. This assumption was not
 only contrary to the stand of the petitioners, namely, of TGM LLC
 merely being the investment manager, it also proceeded in ignorance
 of their categorical stand that the said entity held no shareholding or
 other investment interest in the pooling vehicles. It was also not
 shown to have invested through the 500 investors who had entrusted
 funds for deployment with the petitioner, TG III and TG IV. 259. Although elaborate submissions were addressed by Mr.
 Srivastava doubting the independence and authority of the BoD of the
 petitioners, those submissions have left us unimpressed for the
 following reasons. It must at the outset be noted that it would be
 wholly incorrect to commence an inquiry while dealing with such an
 allegation on the premise that a subsidiary would not enjoy an
 independent status. The petitioners had proved that they had remained
 invested in Singapore for more than a decade and had participated in
 investments amounting to USD 330 million over a span of ten years. 260. In our considered opinion, a parent or holding company would
 legitimately claim the right to exercise oversight and retain a broad
 supervisory role over the affairs of its subsidiaries. This could
 legitimately take the shape of seats on the BoD, placement or selection
 of key managerial personnel, regular audit of the affairs of the
 subsidiary or a periodical review and reporting process. These aspects
 were duly acknowledged and highlighted by the Supreme Court in
 Vodafone which recognized the well settled position of companies and
 other incorporated entities being viewed as economic entities with
 legal independence. While dealing with the control that may be
 exercised by a group parent company, it was observed that merely
 because the parent may exercise shareholder influence over its
 subsidiary would not lead one to draw an adverse inference of the
 latter being a mere puppet. The concurring opinion in Vodafone
 resonates the aforesaid view when it observed that mere ownership,
 parental control or management of a subsidiary would not be
 sufficient to pierce or lift the corporate veil. It was pertinently
 observed that the persuasive position in which a parent is placed,
 would not warrant the jettisoning of the separate legal persona which
 the subsidiary enjoys. 261. The Supreme Court held that even if the subsidiary were to
 comply with requests of the parent company, the same would be
 clearly justifiable and would not compel one to assume that the
 subsidiary had become wholly subservient. It was only in a situation
 where it were to be found that the parent company's control and
 interference with activities amounted to a complete takeover and the
 subsidiary deprived of the power to administer and manage that an Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 209 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 adverse inference may be drawn. 262. Thus, merely because two of the members of the Board also
 happened to be connected with the larger conglomerate would not
 convince us to hold that the petitioner, TG III and TG IV were
 reduced to mere puppets. While much was sought to be derived from
 the minutes of the board meetings having used the expression ―noted‖
 and ―ratified‖, we find that the submission is firstly based on a
 selective reading of parts of the minutes. The contention also fails to
 bear in mind that the resolutions as ultimately drawn when read in
 their entirety would unerringly point towards the decisions being
 ultimately taken by the Board collectively. Those minutes speak of the
 BoD of the petitioner, TG III and TG IV having resolved to take the
 various decisions which stood recorded therein. 263. Equally misconceived was the argument which proceeded on
 the basis of the signing power which came to be granted to Mr.
 Charles P Coleman, where remittances over USD 250 million were
 involved. It must at the outset be noted that the petitioners had firstly
 explained that the power conferred on certain individuals to operate
 the bank accounts was a decision taken by the Board as a whole. The
 placement of those individuals was itself explained to be on account of
 the fiduciary duty which stood placed on the investment manager. We
 also bear in mind the resolution passed on 03 November 2014 and
 when the Board resolved that all payments and wire instructions
 would be necessarily countersigned by Group C and which comprised
 of the Mauritian resident directors. It is therefore apparent that no
 payments could have been authorized without the approval of those
 members of the Board. 264. It becomes pertinent to note that most of the members of the
 BoD, including Mr. Moussa Taujoo, Mr. Mohammad Akshar
 Maherally and Mr. Steven D. Boyd were signatories to the
 Constitution document. They were thus individuals who had signed
 what we in Indian corporate and legal terms commonly understand to
 be the Memorandum of Association. The petitioners had also drawn
 our attention to the resumes of those Directors to contend that they
 were all respected authorities in their individual fields and thus clearly
 qualified to be members of the BoD. 265. As we view the entire arrangement, we find ourselves unable to
 come to hold that the BoD of the petitioner, TG III and TG IV stood
 completely deprived of a decision making power or that they had been
 rendered totally subservient to the wishes of a parent entity if the
 existence of such a corporate entity were to be even assumed. 266. We also note that the lack of economic substance argument also
 clearly falters and falls when we bear in consideration the dividend
 which was declared by the petitioners in favour of their constituent
 shareholders by virtue of a decision taken in the meeting of the BoD
 on 13 August 2018. The aforesaid declaration of dividend followed
 the principled decision to undertake the sale of shares of Flipkart
 Singapore and which was taken by the BoD on 04 May 2018 itself.
 Bearing in mind the significant amounts which constituted the interim
 dividend declared and was towards repayment of capital contribution,
 it would be wholly incorrect and erroneous to hold that the petitioners
 lacked economic substance. 267. Equally misconceived were the following observations and
 conclusions of the AAR. The AAR had firstly held that the sale of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 211 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23 shares was not covered by Article 13(3A) of the DTAA since the same
 would only be applicable to the sale of shares of a company resident in
 India. It proceeded further to observe that since the capital gains
 accrued from the sale of shares of a Singapore company, the case of
 the petitioners fails on the ground of treaty eligibility itself. It further
 held that the immediate investment destination was Singapore and not
 India. These findings are wholly unsustainable when we bear in mind
 that it was the stated case of the petitioners that those shares derived
 their value from underlying assets situate in India. If the aforesaid
 flawed reasoning of the AAR were to be accepted, the transaction
 itself would have been freed of any tax implications under the Act.
 The AAR clearly failed to bear in mind that the sale transaction had
 been undertaken at a time by which the Act had brought indirect
 transfers within the realm of taxation under Section 9 . This thus does
 not even appear to have been an issue of disputation. In fact if the
 respondents had doubted this proposition, their very authority to tax or
 for the subject transaction being exigible under the Act would have
 been rendered unsustainable. The AAR has thus essentially built a
 case which was neither urged nor canvassed by either side. 268. The AAR has also drawn adverse inference from the role
 assigned and conferred upon Mr. Coleman ignoring the asserted case
 of the petitioners that he did not hold any shares in the three Mauritian
 entities let alone a controlling equity interest in them. It also appears
 to have doubted the commercial wisdom of placing non-Mauritius
 residents on the BoD. The petitioners had asserted that those members
 had been placed to enable the investment company to exercise a broad
 overview over the functioning of the petitioner, TG III and TG IV. This contention has not been accorded any consideration at all. In any
 case, we find ourselves unable to appreciate how the AAR could have
 been even legitimately concerned with a commercial decision or the
 expediency of placing certain members on the BoD. The issue of
 signing powers and bank operations has already been considered by us
 in the previous parts of this decision and are thus not being repeated
 here. T. CONCLUSIONS AND TAKEAWAYS 269. Our conclusions are, for the sake of ease of reference,
 summarised hereinbelow:- YASHWANT VARMA, J

 PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J. AUGUST 28, 2024/neha/kk/rsk/rw Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(C) 6764/2020 & other connected matters Page 224 of 224 By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.08.2024 19:21:23