% Dated 20.06.2025
# Between: Government Pleader representing the learned
 Advocate General for the respondents. < GIST : Mr. Swaroop Oorilla, the learned Special Government Pleader
representing the learned Advocate General for the respondents.

ORDER: (per Hon'ble Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya) 1. The present writ petition has been filed by the wife of the

detenu against an order of detention dated 25.11.2024 passed by

the respondent No.2/District Collector & District Magistrate,

Warangal. The petitioner also challenges an order dated

23.12.2024passed by the respondent No.1/State of Telangana,

represented by its Chief Secretary, General Administration (Law &

Order) Department, confirming the detention of the petitioner's

husband. 2. The petitioner seeks issuance of a Writ of Habeas Corpus

directing the respondents to produce the detenu, who is presently

lodged at the Central Prison, Cherlapally, Medchal-Malkajgiri 4 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 District, before this Court to set aside the impugned detention

order as well as the confirmation order, and release of the detenu. 3. The impugned order dated 25.11.2024 passed by the

respondent No.2/District Collector & District Magistrate,

Warangal, contains the grounds of detention. The detenu has been

charged with engaging in the business of possession and sale of

Illicitly Distilled Liquor ('IDL') in contravention of the provisions of The Telangana Prohibition Act, 1995 ('the 1995 Act') as well as The

Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Boot-leggers,

Dacoits, Drug-Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders

Land-Grabbers, Spurious Seed Offenders, Insecticide Offenders,

Fertiliser Offenders, Food Adulteration Offenders, Fake Document

Offenders, Scheduled Commodities Offenders, Forest Offenders,

Gaming Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Explosive Substances

Offenders, Arms Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders and 'White

Collar or Financial Offenders Act, 1986 ('the 1986 Act'). 4. The impugned detention order also contains the particulars

of cases registered against the detenu under the provisions of the

1986 Actand subsequent cases registered under the provisions of 5 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 the 1995 Act. The confirmation order dated 23.12.2024 reiterates

the findings of the District Collector & District Magistrate,

Warangal, and directing detention of the detenu for a period of 12

months from the date of detention (25.11.2024).

The Facts leading to the Impugned Order: 5. A case vide Crime Occurrence Report (COR)No.99 of 2024

was registered against the detenu on 01.04.2024 under section 7A read with section 8(e) of the 1995 Act, consequent upon 20 litres of

liquor being seized from the detenu. The seized liquor was analyzed

by the Chemical Examiner of the Regional Prohibition and Excise

Laboratory, Warangal on 05.07.2024. The Chemical Examiner

opined that the seized substance was "IDL" which is unfit for

human consumption and injurious to health. On 19.10.2024, a

second case was registered under the provisions of the 1995 Act

and 10 litres of liquor was seized from the detenu. On 28.10.2024,

the Chemical Examiner analyzed the sample and opined that the

seized IDL was unfit for human consumption and injurious to

health. On 26.10.2024, a third COR was registered against the

detenu upon seizure of 5 litres of IDL. On 28.10.2024, the 6 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 Chemical Examiner opined that the seized IDL was unfit for

human consumption and injurious to health. On 28.10.2024, a

fourth COR was registered against the detenu upon seizure of 10

litres of IDL. On 29.10.2024, the Chemical Examiner opined that

the seized IDL was unfit for human consumption and injurious to

health. 6. The impugned detention order was passed by the District

Collector & District Magistrate, Warangal, on 25.11.2024 and was

confirmed by the State Government on 23.12.2024.

Arguments made on behalf of the Parties: 7. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submits that

the alleged crimes, which form the basis for the

impugneddetention order, do not constitute disturbance of public

order as defined under section 2(a) of the 1986 Act. Counsel

argues that possession or distribution of liquor would fall within

the definition of 'law and order' as opposed to 'maintenance of

public order' under the 1986 Act. Counsel further submits that

the detenu can be produced before and punished by a competent

Court of law since the criminal justice system has already been set 7 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 in motion. Counsel submits that Investigation Officers failed to

take any steps under section 41A(4) of The Code of Criminal

Procedure , 1973, despite the detenu allegedly being involved in

similar offences. Counsel further submits that relevant material

was not placed before the Advisory Board and that the impugned

order was passed solely on the earlier cases registered against the

detenu. Counsel also argues that the detention order was based

on mere apprehension and lacked concrete evidence in support of

the conclusion that the detenu is a habitual offender. Counsel

relies on decisions to urge that the Supreme Court as well as a

Co-ordinate Bench of this Court have set aside similar detention

orders on the difference between 'public order' and 'law and order'. 8. The learned Special Government Pleader ('SGP') appearing

for the respondentNos.1-3 i.e., the State of Telangana, the District

Magistrate, Warangal, and the Superintendent, Central Prison,

Cherlapally, submits that the impugned order was passed under section 2(a) and 2(b) of the 1986 Act. The SGP argues that four

cases were registered against the detenu for the offence under section 7A read with section 8(e) of the 1995 Act and that the

Chemical Examiner, upon analysis, confirmed that the seized 8 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 substance to be IDL which is unfit for human consumption and

injurious to public health. 9. The SGP relies on the recent decisions of the Supreme Court

including the case of Pesala Nookaraju Vs. Government of Andhra

Pradesh 1 to contend that the seized samples which were found to

be unfit for human consumption, constitute activity prejudicial to

the maintenance of public order, thereby justifying the detention of

the manufacturer/seller of the liquor. It is argued that the

Detaining Authority duly considered the material on record and

arrived at a subjective satisfaction of the necessity for detaining

the petitioner and that there is no scope of interference with the

impugned order. Habeas Corpus and Preventive Detention: 10. "Habeas Corpus" literally means "have the body" and is

directed to the person detaining the other and requires the first

person to produce the body of the prisoner at a designated time

and place together with the cause of the detention to the Court.

The Court can issue the Writ to have the body of the detained

12023 14 SCC 641 9 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 person to be brought before the Court in order to determine

whether the detention is legal or illegal: Corpus Juris Secundum.

The purpose of the Writ is to obtain the production of the

individual before the Court or a Judge for securing the liberty of

the subject and by affording an effective release from unlawful or

unjustifiable detention whether in prison or private custody. The

Writ of Habeas Corpus is a powerful Writ given by the Constitution

to every man who is unlawfully detained and is therefore an

extraordinary remedy: Nenavath Bujji Vs. State of Telangana 2. 11. The Writ of Habeas Corpus is an extraordinary remedy which

has been included as one of the Constitutional guarantees

upholding individual liberty under Articles 226 and 32 of the

Constitution of India. The Writ is to safeguard the freedom of an

individual against illegal detention and ensures procedural justice

to a person who has been unlawfully detained. The Writ is a

judicial command directed to a jailer to produce the named

prisoner together with the legal cause of detention. It is well settled

that a Writ of Habeas Corpus will not lie where the detention or

imprisonment is in accordance with law: Home Secretary (Prison)

2 2024 SCC OnLine SC 367 10 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 Vs. H. Nilofer Nisha 3. The Writ of Habeas Corpus is a prerogative

Writ in England, issued by the King against his officers to compel

them to exercise their functions properly and where ordinary legal

remedies are insufficient: Halsbury's Laws of England. The legality

of any form of detention may be challenged under common law by

an application for the Writ of Habeas Corpus. The question which

the Court must answer is whether any right of the detenu has been

violated which would warrant an order directing his/her release

from prison. Habeas Corpus is essentially a procedural Writ and

deals with the machinery of justice and not the substantive law: 3 (2020) 14 SCC 161
4 1974 SCC OnLine SC 26 11 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 13. A distinction should also be made between preventive

detention and punitive detention. While preventive detention is to

prevent commission of an act or a crime on the basis of a

reasonable apprehension, punitive detention is to punish a person

for something he/she has already done. An order of preventive

detention may be made with or without prosecution and in

anticipation or after discharge or even after acquittal. Pendency of

prosecution is not a bar to an order of preventive detention; the

reverse is also true: Haradhan Saha Vs. The State of West Bengal 5. 14. The concept of preventive detention takes colour from the

1986 Act and particularly section 2(a) of the said Act read with

Explanation thereto. '2(a). "acting in any manner prejudicial to the
 maintenance of public order" means when a boot-legger,
 a dacoit, a drug-offender, a goonda, an immoral traffic
 offender, Land-Grabber, a Spurious Seed Offender, an
 Insecticide Offender, a Fertiliser Offender, a Food
 Adulteration Offender, a Fake Document Offender, a
 Scheduled Commodities Offender, a Forest Offender, a
 Gaming Offender, a Sexual Offender, an Explosive
 Substances Offender, an Arms Offender, a Cyber Crime
 Offender and a White Collar or Financial Offender is
 engaged or is making preparations for engaging, in any

5 (1975) 3 SCC 198 12 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 of his activities as such, which affect adversely, or are
 likely to affect adversely, the maintenance of public
 order: The degree of seriousness, the breach of offence as well as the risk

to public health are all brought within the ambit of the justification

for preventive detention. MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 The Telangana Prohibition Act, 1995 and The Telangana Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Boot-Leggers,
Dacoits, Drug-Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders
Land-Grabbers, Spurious Seed Offenders, Insecticide Offenders,
Fertiliser Offenders, Food Adulteration Offenders, Fake Document
Offenders, Scheduled Commodities Offenders, Forest Offenders,
Gaming Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Explosive Substances
Offenders, Arms Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders And White
Collar Or Financial Offenders Act, 1986 . 16. The Telangana Prohibition Act, 1995 and The Telangana

Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act, 1986 form part of the

impugned order of detention and we hence propose to deal with the

relevance of these statutes in the context of the present dispute. The avowed object of The Telangana Prohibition Act, 1995 is

the prohibition of consumption of intoxicating drugs which is

injurious to health except for medicinal purposes. The enactment

of the statute was considered necessary in the wake of an alarming

increase in consumption of alcoholic drinks, especially Arrack,

despite the Government banning its sale on 01.10.1993. Arrack is

defined as an Asian alcoholic beverage like Rum which is distilled

from a fermented mash of malted rice with toddy or molasses: 17. The Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act, 1986

(as amended in 2017) provides for preventive detention of persons

in the categories mentioned in the Act for the overall prevention of

dangerous activities prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.

The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act specifically notes

dangerous activities of certain anti-social elements who cause

harm, danger and alarm and a feeling of insecurity among the

general public and adversely affects public order by causing grave

danger to life and public health. The Explanation to section 2(a) adds that public order shall be deemed to have been adversely

affected or likely to be adversely affected if any of the activities of

the persons referred to in section 2(a) directly or indirectly causes

or is likely to cause danger or alarm or a feeling of insecurity 15 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 among the general public or any section thereof or a grave or

widespread danger to life or public health. 18. The Explanation to section 2(a) of the 1986 Act needs to be

broken up into meaningful parts for understanding the import of

the expression 'prejudicial to the maintenance of public order'.

Public order can be adversely affected if the activities have a direct

or indirect bearing or is calculated to cause any harm, danger or

alarm to the general public or any section thereof or widespread

danger to life or public health. The adverse effect can also be

expanded to a feeling of insecurity among the general public or any

section thereof. The adverse effect of public order stretches further

to a serious danger to a large number of person or a danger to the

lives of the larger community. 19. The Explanation further clarifies that public order can also

be adversely affected when there is a grave or widespread danger to

public health. An expansive reading of the Explanation would

make it clear that the seriousness and reach of the act with the

potential to cause harm, danger or alarm to the general public

transitions to an actual risk to life and public health with the

potential of destabilizing public order. The Explanation to section 16 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 2(a) becomes relevant in the context of the grounds of detention

contained in the impugned order i.e., detention of the detenu for

the repeated acts of manufacture and sale of IDL. 20. The impugned Preventive Detention Order dated 25.11.2024

categorises the detenu as a 'Boot-Legger' under the 1986 Act as

justification for the impugned order. 21. 'Boot-Legger' has been defined under section 2(b) of the 1986

Act as a person, who distils, manufactures, stores, transports,

imports, exports, sells or distributes any liquor, intoxicating drug

or other intoxicant in contravention of any of the provisions of The

Telangana Excise Act, 1968 or in contravention of any other law for

the time being in force. The Undisputed Facts in The Present Case 22. The Grounds of Detention which form the part of the

impugned order dated 25.11.2024 records the following facts: 23. The Grounds of Detention consist of six old cases registered

against the detenu from 27.06.2022 - 28.10.2024 and four cases

against the petitioner (the wife of the detenu) from 30.01.2024 - 18 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 14.09.2024. Of the six cases registered against the detenu, four

cases were singled out in the grounds as being within the area

limits of the Prohibition and Excise Station: Parkal. The detenu

was charged under the 1995 Act in these four cases for possession

of various amounts of IDL i.e., 5 Litres to 25 Litres. The saidfour

cases are pending investigation. The Grounds of Detention

proceed to individually deal with each of the four cases in detail

including the finding of the Chemical Examiner that the seized IDL

in each of the cases was found to be "unfit for human consumption

and injurious to health". 'PUBLIC ORDER' Vs. 'LAW AND ORDER ' 24. The debate over whether a detention order is justified or can

be challenged within the rights safeguarded by the Constitution of

India primarily hinges on whether the act complained of disturbs

the law and order of a particular locality or has broader

repercussions on the larger sphere of public order. This

distinction assumes crucial significance within the framework of

the 1986 Act, particularly section 2(a) thereof, which specifically 19 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 refers to any act that is prejudicial to the 'maintenance of public

order'. 25. Before turning our gaze to the Explanation of the term

'public order' in the 1986 Act, it would be useful to examine the

decisions of the Supreme Court, right from Brij Bhushan Vs. State

of Delhi 6 to the recent judgment delivered on 21.03.2024 in Nenavath Bujji (supra). The Supreme Court considered the fine line

demarcating 'law and order' and 'public order' in several cases

spanning 75 years and arrived at illuminating opinions on the

issue. 26. On an overview of the decisions, the consensus appears to

be that 'public order' can be equated with 'public tranquility' as an

overall environment of peace prevailing amongst members of a

political society, akin to public safety: Brij Bhushan (supra) and Romesh Thappar Vs. State of Madras 7. Public order has also been

described as any kind of disturbance which would lead to public

disorder and generally involves disruptions of greater gravity than

those affecting law and order: Ram Manohar Lohia Vs. State of

6 1950 SCC 449
71950 SCC 436 20 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 Bihar 8. Apart from its gravity, 'public order' also entails a broader

segment of the community, as opposed to 'law and order' where the

even tempo of life of the community or the country as a whole or

even a specific locality is disrupted by the commission of the act: '...grave or widespread danger to life or public health' - the
Explanation to section 2(a) of The Telangana Prevention of
Dangerous Activities Act, 1986. 31. As stated above, the concluding part of the Explanation to section 2(a) of the 1986 Act contains a separate, if not severable,

constituent that would qualify as an act prejudicial to the 23 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 maintenance of public order. Since the Explanation has already

been set out in the earlier part of the judgment, the portion which

is relevant for the present discussion is extracted below: 32. It is clear that the adverse effect of an act also encompasses

public health. The Explanation to section 2(a) provides context to

public health through the immediately preceding words used in the

Explanation i.e., 'widespread danger to life'. 33. The grounds of detention lists six cases registered against

the detenu, of which four cases were considered while passing the

impugned Preventive Detention Order. It is undisputed that six

cases were registered against the detenu from 27.06.2022 -

28.10.2024. There is a noticeable gap of almost 18 months

between the second and the third cases, followed by three other

cases registered until 28.10.2024. The reference to the registration

of offence/Crime Occurrence Report is corroborated in the grounds

of detention which state that the detenu had taken strategic gaps 24 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 between his operations and that different quantities of contraband

substance/IDL was recovered from the possession of the detenu

several times in 2022 and 2024. The grounds also state that the

detenu was acquitted in the two CORs of 2022 and investigation is

pending in the remaining four CORs of 2024. 34. The particulars of the four cases pending investigation also

include a clear statement that the samples seized were analysed by

the Chemical Examiner and found to be 'Illicitly Distilled Liquor,

unfit for human consumption and injurious to health'. The findings

of the Chemical Examiner are reiterated in the Grounds of

Detention, a portion of which is reproduced below: 35. Therefore, the impugned detention order first classifies the

detenu as a 'Boot-Legger' under section 2(b) of the 1986 Act, for

selling IDL in contravention of the 1995 Act and thereafter sets out

the Grounds of Detention in justification of the impugned order 25 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 under the provisions of section 2(a) of the 1986 Act read with the

Explanation thereto. 36. The very fact that the samples of IDL seized from the

possession of the detenu were chemically-analyzed and found to be

'unfit for human consumption' and 'injurious to health', coupled

with the series of identical offences committed by the detenu and

the cases registered against him, would bring the act squarely

within the contours of the Explanation to section 2(a) of the 1986

Act. The manufacture, possession and sale of liquor may not, by

themselves, breach the outer parameters of public order unless the

substance distributed falls foul of the standards required for public

health and safety. 37. In the present case, the IDL recovered from the possession of

the detenu failed the certification for safe consumption every single

examination in all the four cases registered against the detenue.

The four cases pending investigation also prove that the detenu is

a habitual offender who has attempted to evade the process of law

despite being charged for similar offences in 2022. The grounds of

detention make a compelling case for detention, highlighting the 26 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 risk to gullible consumers who may be lured by inexpensive

intoxicants and, as a result, be exposed to serious and chronic

health problems including loss of memory, blurred vision and

permanent damage to the liver and nervous system. 38. We are reminded of several instances of wide reportage of

hooch tragedies which claimed a large number of lives, particularly

among the socio-economic weaker sections. These kinds of

tragedies not only affect isolated individuals but have a

far-reaching impact on the wider social order, i.e., disrupting

families, jeopardizing the future of innocent children and causing

irreversible damage to social structures. We simply cannot shut

our eyes to the real possibility that the sale of IDL which is 'unfit

for human consumption' could cause immeasurable and

permanent damage to society, including harm to the health and

well-being of the public and irrevocably disturbing public

tranquility in its wake. If this is not destabilizing of public order,

then nothing is. 39. The objective of preventive detention is to serve as insurance

for the future. It is meant to ensure that the person detained 27 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 cannot commit or repeat the act complained of, thereby

prejudicially affecting the lives of others. Though orders of

preventive detention are considered to be dracorian on the

deprivation of individual liberty, they may be necessary when the

potentiality of the act to cause widespread injury is established on

the material before the Detaining Authority. The 1986 Act aims to

intervene in this space where the 'Dangerous Activities' of Boot-

Leggers and other offenders named in the Act have the capacity to

disturb the maintenance of public order, including causing

widespread danger to life or public health. The sale of IDL, which is

injurious to public health, hence clearly falls within this category

and qualifies for an order of preventive detention.

Cases relied on by the Petitioner 40. Learned counsel for the petitioner has placed several

decisions in support of the plea for production and release of the

detenu. These decisions however do not assist the petitioner for

the reasons discussed below. MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 41. Nenavath Bujji (supra) and Ameena Begum Vs. State of

 Telangana 14 were both concerned with 'Goonda's as defined under section 2(g) of the 1986 Act and hence were on a different factual

 footing. The Supreme Court also came to a specific finding in

 Ameena Begum that the detention order is not sustainable by

 reason of the Commissioner of Police, Hyderabad, transgressing

 his jurisdiction and attempting to detain the detenu at any cost

 without resorting to due procedure. Arjun S/o. Ratan Gaikwad Vs.

 State of Maharashtra 15 was under The Maharashtra Prevention of

 Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offenders

 and Dangerous Persons Act, 1981. The case was concerned with

 manufacture of handmade liquor and the Supreme Court came to

 a specific finding that the alleged crime can be dealt with by the

 ordinary legal machinery in respect to a law and order situation.

 The Supreme Court accordingly held that the subjective

 satisfaction of the Detaining Authority did not support the fact that

 the activities of the appellant were prejudicial to maintenance of

 public order. 14 (2023) 9 SCC 587
 15 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3718 29 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 42. The Supreme Court in Mortuza Hussain Choudhary Vs. The

 State of Nagaland 16 held that the grounds for detention were

 absent and that the Detaining Authority/Special Secretary, Home

 Department, Government of Nagaland, had merely acted on the

 proposal for detention forwarded by the Additional Director

 General of Police (Administration) Nagaland. The Supreme Court

 also found that the detention order was cryptic and did not adhere

 to the statutory scheme of The Prevention of Illicit Traffic in

 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1988 . Joyi Kitty

 Joseph Vs. Union of India 17 was delivered under The Conservation

 of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act,

 1974 ('the COFEPOSA Act '). The Supreme Court found that the

 detaining authority should have examined whether the conditions

 granted by the jurisdictional Court were sufficient to curb the

 commission of identical activities. Ram Manohar Lohia Vs. State of

 Bihar 18 dealt with the Writ of Habeas Corpus for directing the

 release of the appellant who had been detained under The Defence

 of India Rules, 1962. 16 2025 SCC OnLine SC 502
 17 (2025) 4 SCC 476
 18 AIR 1966 SCC 740 30 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 43. It should be stated in this context that for a case to be

 relevant, the offence must be in the same category i.e., of a Boot-

 Legger, as in the present, case which is under the 1986 Act. The

 cases cited on behalf of the petitioner are mostly under other

 statutes, though occasionally of similar import or passed much

 before the 1986 Act. 44. Rampuri Vaishali Vs. The State of Telangana 19 involved

 peddling of Cannabis/Ganja and the Division Bench found that the

 use of preventive detention in the facts of that case would be an

 overreach of executive power which would be amount to

 circumventing the judicial process. The Court also found that the

 detaining authority had treated pending cases against the detenu

 as evidence of guilt and that the detention order was also in

 violation of earlier bail orders. The decisions of the Co-ordinate

 Benches of this Court including Konireddy Premalatha Vs. The

 State of Telangana 20 and Bodapati Laxmi Vs. The State of

 Telangana 21 were on factually different situations including that 19W.P.No.21653 of 2024 20W.P.No.12085 of 2024 21W.P.No.12064 of 2024 31 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 the offence in those cases involved the category 'Goonda' and

 crimes of a different order including rape, criminal trespass,

 extortion and criminal intimidation. 45. Counsel for the petitioner has laid particular emphasis on a

 decision of a Co-ordinate Bench in Banoth Bulli Vs. The State of

 Telangana 22. Although, the detention order in the said case was

 passed on the offence of Boot-Legging under the 1986 Act, there

 was no finding of the seized sample being 'unfit for human

 consumption and injurious to health'. The argument made on

 behalf of the detaining authority was that the manufacture of IDL

 was done with the help of unscientific methods and in unhygienic

 conditions. As stated before, there was no independent finding of

 any chemical examination of the sample failing the test of fitness

 for human consumption. The Co-ordinate Bench was also of the

 view that the detaining authority had failed to make a distinction

 between 'public order' and 'law and order' while passing the

 detention order. There is no reference to the decision of the

 Supreme Court in Pesala Nookaraju in the said decision. 22W.P.No.33604 of 2024 32 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 46. We are hence of the considered view that the decisions cited

 on behalf of the petitioner do not support the case for production

 of detenu or for his release. As stated above, we are inclined to

 follow the view taken by the Supreme Court in Pesala Nookaraju.

 The State Authorities must also discharge their Duty 47. We take note of the caution sounded by the Supreme Court

 in Nenavath Bujji and Ameena Begum on the spate of orders of

 preventive detention under the 1986 Act and that the State of

 Telangana should ensure that orders of preventive detention are

 not passed in a routine manner without application of mind.

 Giving due weightage to the observations, we deem it fit to direct

 the Detaining Authority to ensure that the ongoing investigation in

 each of the four cases registered against the detenu are expedited

 and that the Detaining Authority extends full co-operation in that

 regard. We note that the first case was reported on 01.04.2024

 which means that the investigation has been pending for 15

 months. We are of the firm view that the detenu should not be

 detained for an inordinately long period on the pretext of pending

 investigation. We also deem it expedient to reiterate the view taken 33 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 by the Supreme Court in Nenavath Bujji that the Advisory Board

constituted under section 9 of the 1986 Act with powers of

Reference of an Order of Detention under section 10 and 11 of the

said Act, should give due importance to its role of ascertaining

whether the detention is justified under the law or not. The

Advisory Board should give its definite opinion of the legality of the

order of detention in view of the immediate infraction of a person's

constitutional right of freedom and liberty. The Advisory Board

should apply its independent assessment to the particular facts of

each case and should come to a conclusion which is supported by

law. The present Case aligns with the decision of the Supreme Court in
Pesala Nookaraju 48. The Appeal in that case was filed at the instance of the

detenu who had been preventively detained under section 3(2) of

the 1986 Act. The Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High

Court had dismissed the Writ Petition filed by the detenu (the

appellant before the Supreme Court) and had declined to interfere

with the order of preventive detention passed by the District 34 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 Collector, Kakinada District, Andhra Pradesh. The particulars of

the four cases which had been registered against the detenu under

the 1986 Act formed part of the order of detention and spanned

from 06.01.2021 - 09.03.2022. The detenu was categorised as a

'Boot-Legger' under section 2(b) of the 1986 Act. All the four

samples of liquor recovered from the detenu were analysed and

were found to be IDL unfit for human consumption and injurious

to health. The Supreme Court exhaustively analysed the material

and the case law on the subject of Preventive Detention and the

Writ of Habeas Corpus and concluded that the liquor sold by the

detenu is dangerous to public health and is activity prejudicial to

the maintenance of public order under the provisions of the 1986

Act. The Supreme Court also found that the grounds of detention

had specifically mentioned that the appellant/detenu's sale of the

liquor would be harmful to the health of the people of that locality

and constitutes an expression of subjective satisfaction of the

Detaining Authority. The detenu's Appeal was accordingly

dismissed by the Supreme Court. 49. The facts in the present case are substantially similar to

those in Pesala Nookaraju. In the case before us, the Grounds of 35 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 Detention specifically record multiple cases being registered

against the detenu and the four recovered samples being found

unfit for human consumption and injurious to health. This would

show that not only was the detenu indulging in repeated offences

of the same nature but was also selling liquor which would disrupt

public order by affecting the health and well-being of the

community. The Grounds of Detention also narrate the

components used for IDL together with the unhygienic conditions

for production of IDL. The Grounds further narrate the debilitating

irreversible injury to health on consumption of such liquor. 50. As opined in Pesala Nookaraju, we do not find any material

placed before us for dislodging the subjective satisfaction arrived at

by the District Collector and District Magistrate, Warangal or any

compelling shift in the narrative to take a different view in the

present case. 51. We also find that the Detaining Authority followed the

sequential procedure provided under the 1986 Act, i.e.,

categorising the detenu as a 'Boot-Legger'under section 2(b) of the

1986 Act and thereafter passing the impugned order along with the 36 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 Grounds of Detention upon satisfaction of the requirement to pass

such an order under section 3(1) of the 1986 Act. The Government

is conferred with the power under section 3 to pass orders

detaining certain persons named in the 1986 Act. The impugned

order does not contain omnibus allegations but deals with each of

the four cases of recovery of IDL from the detenu and the chemical

analysis reports of the same. 52. We accordingly find that the case in hand fits within the

decision-parameters in Pesala Nookaraju and the law discussed by

the Supreme Court therein. Conclusion 53. The discussion in the preceding paragraphs leads us to the

firm conclusion that the impugned order of Preventive Detention

dated 25.11.2024 along with its Confirmation Order dated

23.12.2024 are justified in the particular facts of the case. The

petitioner has not been able to counter the findings in the

impugned order and the Grounds of Detention with regard to the

multiple offences committed by the detenu qualifying him as a

habitual offender or the fact that the IDL failed to meet the 37 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 required safety standards of human consumption. The opinion on

the necessity of the detention is fortified by the factual particulars

and constitutes the subjective satisfaction of the Detaining

Authority. The subjective satisfaction so expressed cannot

ordinarily be discarded by the Court unless it is demonstrably

clear that the Detaining Authority has failed to consider relevant

circumstances or has taken unnecessary and irrelevant

circumstances into account for ordering a detention. The Court

does not sit in judgment over the correctness of the subjective

satisfaction unless the decision-making process is influenced by

caprice and malice: Nenavath Bujji (supra). The present facts fully

satisfy the last and ninth conclusion outlined in the "Summary of

Findings" at paragraph 43 of Nenavath Bujji (supra). 54. The Detaining Authority has examined the material adduced

against the detenu and satisfied itself, first, that the detenu has

been acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public

order, and second, that the detenu is likely to continue to act in a

similar manner in the near future unless prevented from doing so

by passing an order of detention. MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 55. In the instant case, we have not found any lack of

application of mind in the impugned order, nor any perverse

element that would vitiate the said order. 56. We also do not have any doubt that possession and sale of

IDL, which is unfit for human consumption and injurious to

health, would have larger and irreversible repercussions on the

community. The depth and gravity of the offence would extend

beyond the smallest circle of the community and penetrate through

successive layers, thereby affecting a much larger number of

persons. The indirect effect of the sale of spurious liquor, which is

hazardous to health, would result in permanent and irreversible

health hazards, leading to a decline in the overall quality of life and

well-being of the society. This would in turn impair the income

generating capability, employment opportunities, nutritional

standards and literacy levels of the society as a whole. 57. The impugned order therefore satisfies the manifold

requirements of section 2(a) of the 1986 Act read with the

Explanation thereto. The only caveat is that the preventive

detention should not be continued for an indefinite period under 39 MB,J & BRMR,J W.P.No.2133 of 2025 the pretext of an ongoing investigation. The authorities concerned

should ensure that the justice system is activated and sustained to

conclude the investigation as expeditiously as possible and

preferably by 31.12.2025. 58. Thus, we do not find any reason to interfere with the

impugned Preventive Detention Order dated 25.11.2024 or the

subsequent Confirmation Order dated 23.12.2024. 59. W.P.No.2133 of 2025 is accordingly dismissed, without any

order as to costs. All connected applications are disposed of.

Interim orders, if any, shall stand vacated. _________________________________
 MOUSHUMI BHATTACHARYA, J

 ______________________________
 B.R.MADHUSUDHAN RAO, J
20thJune, 2025. Note: Mark L.R. Copy. (B/o. VA/BMS)