This afternoon, the Delhi High Court directed multiple YouTube channels to take down ‘defamatory’ videos against MBA Chai Wala’s Founder Praful Billore and his chain of tea cafes .

While delivering the order, Justice Pratibha M. Singh added if the nine defendants do not pull down the contested videos within 72 hours, then YouTube-parent Google would have to take them down instead. Billore is also “free to inform Google LLC of any other links where identical videos are present,” the Court held.

Ahead of the orders being issued, lawyers informed the Court that four defendants had already made their videos private, while another had deleted theirs. One video on Billore and his chain was also played for the Court, which included “derogatory expressions” like “MBA Fraud Wale”. “The defendants haven’t come forward to defend their position to justify the publication of such videos,” Justice Singh pointed out. The case will be heard next on February 2nd.

Google also handed over basic subscriber information on the users behind the channels, as directed by Justice Singh on August 18th. Notably, in a separate case earlier this year, the Bombay High Court also directed five users to take down defamatory videos and comments they had made on vaccine manufacturing tycoon Adar Poonawalla.

Article continues below ⬇ , you might also want to read:

Who’s MBA Chai Wala and what’s this case about? By Billore’s own admission , he’s a “well-known face and a famous celebrity” who used his trademarks to set up multiple MBA Chai Wala stores and franchises across India in the last three years. MBA Chaiwala’s turnover during this period was over Rs. 12 crores.

Billore moved the Court seeking an urgent injunction against the channels, which had allegedly launched a campaign to “malign and disrepute” Billore and his business, describing him as a scam, fraud, and more. The channels mentioned in Justice Singh’s August 18th order are:

Changing legal tides towards satire (and roasting)? Some of the channels named in Justice Singh’s August 18th order appear to engage in ‘roasting’ content and commentaries on current affairs and entertainment, among others.

Notably, the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 , which may replace the Indian Penal Code of 1860, could potentially impact these content types. While criminalising defamation, the Sanhita may also punish speech in the “form of an alternative or expressed ironically”. This could impact satire and comedy.

While the Billore case involves a private individual, regulating the roasting of the government has also been raised recently. The Indian government clarified before the Bombay High Court this year that its latest plans to give a government-appointed body powers to fact-check government-related information online will not impact satire, criticism, or roasting. In the same breath, the government held that satire, in all its forms, should also be accompanied by a disclaimer, and not be passed off as “facts” like those reported on by media houses.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event