Page | 2
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11 01. ITA No. 72/Mum/2018 is filed by Citigroup global
 Market (India) Private Limited (assessee /appellant)
 and ITA No.45/Mum/2018 is filed by Jt.
 Commissioner of Income Tax (OSD) 4(1)(1), Mumbai
 (the learned Assessing Officer) for A.Y. 2010-11
 against the appellate order passed by the
 Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals)-55, Mumbai
 [the learned CIT (A)] dated 12th October, 2017,
 wherein the appeal filed by the assessee against the
 assessment order dated 26th March, 2014, passed by
 the Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 4(1),
 Mumbai under Section 144C read with section 143(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act), by the
 assessee was partly allowed. Both the parties
 aggrieved with the assessment order and therefore,
 are in appeal before us. 02. In ITA No.45/Mum/2018 The learned Assessing
 Officer is aggrieved by raising following grounds of
 appeal:- 1.2 "On the facts and in the circumstances of the
 case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) was not justified in
 Page | 3
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

including comparable namely M/s IDC (India) Ltd., on
the basis of functional comparability without giving
opportunity to the AO/TPO?" 1.4 "On the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) was not justified in
including comparable namely M/s IDC (India) Ltd.,
overlooking the fact that M/s IDC Ltd. is earning
income from sale of subscription services and in the
case of M/s Linked In Technology Information (P.)
Ltd. [2016] 71 taxmann.com 249 (Delhi - Trib.) ITA
No. 706 (DELHI), Hon'ble ITAT has held that
company having subscription income can't be taken
as comparable." 1.5 "On the facts and in the circumstances of the
case and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) was not justified in
including comparable namely M/s IDC (India) Ltd.,
overlooking the fact that the company is not
preparing segmental account in spite of carrying out
different segmental activities?" 2. "On the facts and in the circumstances of the case
and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) was not justified in
 Page | 4
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 excluding comparable namely M/s IDFC Investment
 Advisors Ltd., on the basis of functional dissimilarity?" 3. "On the facts and in the circumstances of the case
 and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) was not justified in
 excluding comparable namely M/s Ladderup
 Corporate Advisory Pvt. Ltd. on the basis of functional
 dissimilarity?" 4. "On the facts and in the circumstances of the case
 and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) was not justified in
 excluding comparable namely M/s Motilal Oswal
 Investment Advisory P. Ltd. on the basis of functional
 dissimilarity?" 5. "On the facts and in the circumstances of the case
 and in law, the Ld. CIT(A) erred in holding the loss on
 error trade as business loss without appreciating the
 fact that the provisions of Explanation to Section 73 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 are applicable to the
 assessee-company which states that "where any part
 of the business of a company consists of purchase
 and sale of shares of other companies, such company
 shall, for the purpose of this section, be deemed to be
 carrying on a speculation business to the extent to
 which the business consists of the purchase and sale
 of such shares." 03. In ITA No. 72/Mum/2018 assessee is also aggrieved
 raising following grounds of appeal:- Without prejudice to the above, the learned CIT(A)
 failed to appreciate the fact that the no expenditure
 having direct and proximate connection with earning
 of exempt income has been incurred by the Appellant
 and thus, no disallowance as expenditure Incurred in
 relation to earning exempt Income is warranted
 under the provisions of section 14A read with Rule 8D
 of the Rules. 4. The learned CIT(A) erred in disallowing Rs
 46,50,827 being 10 percent of the following
 expenditure incurred by the Appellant on the ground
 that the expenses were not entirely incurred for the
 purpose of the business and were not adequately
 supported by bills etc: 04. The brief facts of the case shows that assessee is a
 company engaged in the business of stock broking,
 investment banking and rendering various other
 Page | 7
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

services to customers in relation to different financial
products. Assessee filed its return of income on 29th
September, 2010, declaring income of
₹467,80,98,162/-. The return of income was picked
up for scrutiny. As assessee has entered into
international transactions with its Associated
Enterprises as per form no.3CEB, the reference was
made to the Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax,
Transfer Pricing Officer, Mumbai, (the learned TPO)
for examination of Arm's Length Price of these
international transactions. The assessee is providing
origination and other support services to its
Associated Enterprises and provides support services
and other related advisory services to clients in
India. It also acts as a broker in the equity and
derivative segment mainly to institutional clients. It
has entered into 17 different kind of international
transactions. The only two international transactions
are in dispute before us. The research report services
amounting to ₹16,24,58,348/- and brokerage fees of
₹181,49,41,232/- for the impugned assessment
year. Assessee adopted the Transactional Net Margin
Method[ TNMM] as the most appropriate method [
MAM] for benchmarking research support services.
The assessee's benchmarking shows that assessee
has earned a margin of 15%. Assessee selected four
comparable companies whose margin operating
profit / total cost was 19.57% and therefore, since,
the arithmetic mean of comparable prices is within
 Page | 8
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 +- 5% of the transfer prices, assessee concluded
 that its transaction is at Arm's Length Price. 05. The learned Transfer Pricing Officer asked for further
 details on accepts / reject matrix. The learned
 Assessing Officer found that assessee has used the
 data for three years of the comparable company and
 has taken the weighted average in the accept/ reject
 matrix. Assessee originally selected 6 companies but
 rejected two companies having significant related
 party transactions and one company on functional
 dissimilarity, thereafter, assessee based on the
 transfer pricing study report of subsequent year
 selected one more comparable as IDC India Limited
 because same was found comparable on the basis of
 annual report for financial year 2009-10. Therefore,
 the learned Transfer Pricing Officer was of the view
 that assessee has done cherry picking. Further, the
 assessee is also using same set off comparables for
 investment banking as well as for research support
 services. Accordingly, a show cause notice was
 issued. The learned Transfer Pricing Officer accepted
 the three comparables selected by the assessee but
 rejected IDC India Limited having a margin of
 14.72%. Further, the learned Transfer Pricing Officer
 looked up at comparables rejected by the assessee in
 it's accept/ reject matrix. He found that three
 comparables which qualified all the filters but
 rejected by assessee. The learned Transfer Pricing
 Officer collected certain information under Section
 Page | 9
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 133(6) of the Act. The learned Transfer Pricing
 Officer also examined the employees' profile of the
 assessee company and noted that the average salary
 of 55 employees of the assessee is ₹8,97,237/-, per
 employee, the learned Transfer Pricing Officer on the
 basis of the information included IDFC Investment
 Advisories Ltd., Ladderup Corporate Advisory Pvt.
 Ltd. and Motilal Oswal Investment Advisory P. Ltd.
 The learned Transfer Pricing Officer was of the view
 that this companies are functionally comparable
 accordingly, he selected six comparables, computed
 their average margin of 35.48% and computed the
 adjustment of ₹2,89,31,713/- as adjustment on
 account of research report services. Thus, the Arm's
 Length Price of research report services of
 ₹16,24,58,348/- was computed at ₹19,13,90,061/-. 06. With respect to brokerage services, assessee has
 received brokerage fees of ₹181,49,41,232/-.
 Assessee adopted the Comparable Uncontrolled price
 Method [CUP method] as MAM . Assessee submitted
 that the average broking charges of the assessee to
 the Associated Enterprises in respect of cash equity
 trade is 0.25% and assessee has also earned
 commission in respect of trade executed with
 unrelated parties, average brokerage commission
 charged to top of 10 unrelated foreign institutional
 investors in cash equity trade is 0.15%. Therefore,
 the assessee claimed that transaction is at Arm's
 Length. Page | 10
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11 07. The learned Transfer Pricing Officer found that
 assessee has charged 0.10% to Citi Group Global
 Market Limited, UK at the rate of 0.10%. Therefore,
 assessee was asked to explain that why
 benchmarking of this transaction should not be made
 by adopting the rate charged to FIIs. The assessee
 objected to the same stating that there are
 functional differences in a respect to broking services
 rendered to Associated Enterprises and non-
 Associated Enterprises, however, it agreed for an
 adjustment of 0.05%. Accordingly, an adjustment of
 ₹20,80,796/- is made. 08. Accordingly, the order under Section 92CA(3) of the
 Act was passed on 29th January 2014. 09. During the course of assessment proceedings, the
 learned assessing officer further examined :- 010. Accordingly, the draft assessment order was
 forwarded to the assessee on 18/2/2014 in response
 to which the assessee on 20/3/2014 submitted that
 they have opted not to file objection before the
 Page | 14
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 dispute resolution panel against the draft assessment
 order. Consequently assessment order under section
 143 (3) of the act was passed on 26/3/2014 wherein
 the total income of the assessee is determined at ₹
 4,746,798,774/-. 011. Assessee preferred the appeal before the learned CIT
 (A), who passed an appellate order on 12 th October,
 2017, partly allowing the appeal. The learned CIT (A)
 while adjudicating the transfer pricing adjustment
 directed the learned Transfer Pricing Officer to

 a. include the IDC India Limited in comparability
 analysis as he found that comparable is
 engaged in research and analysis services
 based on the analysis report and website
 extract provided by the appellant. According to
 the learned CIT (A), this comparable is
 functionally similar. He further stated that there
 is no reason for the learned Transfer Pricing
 Officer to go beyond the RPT schedule and
 check the reliability of the financial statement.
 Even otherwise, he held that IDC India Limited
 is a good comparable. b. With respect to IDFC Investment Advisories Ltd.
 included by the learned Transfer Pricing Officer
 in the final set of comparable but objected by
 the assessee, he held that same is primarily
 engaged in providing portfolio services, whereas
 the assessee is engaged in rendering research
 Page | 15
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 report services and therefore, is functionally
 different and hence excluded. c. With respect to the Ladderup Corporate
 Advisory Pvt. Ltd. which is included by the
 learned Transfer Pricing Officer objected to by
 the assessee, he held that it is primarily
 engaged in providing investment banking
 services, where the assessee is engaged in
 rendering research report services and
 therefore, the same is to be excluded. d. on the issue of M/s Motilal Oswal Investment
 Advisory P. Ltd. included by the learned
 Transfer Pricing Officer and objected by the
 assessee, he found that it performs the
 investment banking activities and therefore,
 functionally dissimilar. e. Accordingly, after the order of the learned CIT
 (A), four comparable companies remain in the
 comparability analysis whose operating margin
 was 19.57% and therefore, the TP adjustment
 with respect to the research report services was
 deleted. f. With respect to the adjustment on account of
 the provision for broking services, the learned
 CIT (A) agreed with the learned Transfer Pricing
 Officer and confirmed the addition on account of
 broking services. Page | 16
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

g. On the another issue of disallowing loss of
 ₹2,31,06,114/- on account of error trade by the
 learned Assessing Officer holding that the loss
 arises on account of share trading by the
 assessee and therefore, the same is speculative
 in nature. During the course of verification by
 the learned Assessing Officer, it was noted that
 assessee has incurred loss on error trade
 transaction. The assessee was asked to explain
 that why the provisions of Section 73 should
 not be applied. The assessee explained that
 looking at the nature of its business of broking
 these are the losses arising out of the purchase
 and sale of shares with an obligation of
 payments and delivery to certain times the
 client does not accept the loss and therefore,
 assessee has to bear it by reversal of the trade.
 The learned Assessing Officer disallowed the
 same holding that the provisions of Section 73 of the Act hit it and loss is speculative. The
 learned CIT (A) relying on the decision of the
 Hon'ble Bombay High Court in 379 ITR 146,
 deleted the disallowance. h. The learned Assessing Officer during the course
 of assessment proceedings, disallowed 20% of
 entertainment and conference, repairs and
 maintenance and books and periodical
 expenditure holding that this expenditure were
 not incurred wholly and exclusively for the
 Page | 17
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 purpose of business. The learned Assessing
 Officer was of the view that assessee has given
 a general and casual answers without any
 supporting. The assessee merely submitted the
 some ledger of the said expenses but has not
 furnished sufficient details. Therefore,
 ₹93,01,653/- was disallowed. The learned CIT
 (A) after considering the explanation of the
 assessee confirmed the disallowances at the
 rate of 10% only. He held that the analysis
 made by the learned Assessing Officer is
 correct. 012. Therefore, both the parties are aggrieved with the
 order of the learned Commissioner of Income tax
 (Appeals). The learned Assessing Officer is aggrieved
 with the order of the learned CIT (A), wherein he
 deleted the addition on account of Arm's Length Price
 of the international transaction by directing inclusion
 of IDC Limited and exclusion of IDFC Investment
 Advisories Ltd., Ladderup Corporate Advisory Pvt.
 Ltd. and M/s Motilal Oswal Investment Advisory P.
 Ltd. 013. The learned Departmental representative submitted
 that

 i. IDC India Limited that assessee did not have
 the above comparable company in it's accept/
 reject matrix. However, assessee included the
 same, as it was part of its comparability
 Page | 18
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 analysis for A.Y. 2011-12. He referred to the
 paragraph no.7.4 of the learned Transfer
 Pricing Officer. According to him when in the
 accept/ reject matrix of the assessee where six
 companies were selected cyber media research
 limited earlier known as IDC Limited was not a
 comparable company. The assessee included
 the same only on the basis that for A.Y. 2011-
 12 and 2012-13 this company was in the
 comparability analysis of the assessee. He
 submitted that the assessee has conducted the
 search on prowess capital line and place and
 venture intelligence database. How a
 comparable company can enter into a
 comparability analysis beyond the search filters
 adopted by the assessee. He submitted that the
 CIT (A) has given the reasoning in paragraph
 no.4.4, which is bad and beyond a
 comprehension in transfer pricing. ii. With respect to the inclusion of IDFC
 investment advisory limited by the learned
 Transfer Pricing Officer but excluded by the
 learned CIT (A), he submitted that the learned
 Transfer Pricing Officer has categorically stated
 that IDFC investment advisories limited qualify
 all the filters adopted by the assessee and the
 learned Transfer Pricing Officer rejected it
 merely because of RPT filter. According to the
 assessee, it has related party transaction more
 Page | 19
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 than 25%. In the whole submission of the
 assessee, there is no challenge that it did not
 cross all the filters by the assessee as well as
 by the learned Transfer Pricing Officer.
 Assessee objected before the learned Transfer
 Pricing Officer that this comparables fails RPT
 filter, however, before the learned CIT (A),
 there is no whisper about RPT filter but
 altogether a functionality ground was decided
 and this comparable was excluded. iii. With respect to the Ladder up corporate
 advisory Pvt. Ltd., the assessee has excluded
 the same on account of business review and

iv. Similarly, Motilal Oswal Investment Advisories
 Pvt. Ltd. was also objected on that basis. Both
 the objections were rejected by the learned
 Transfer Pricing Officer by obtaining 133(6) of
 the Act, information from those parties and
 were considered as functional comparable. v. It was stated that the learned CIT (A) has
 without making any enquiry not even looking at
 the 133(6) of the Act information has directed
 the learned Transfer Pricing Officer to exclude
 these comparables. vi. He submitted that the learned CIT (A) has not
 even referred to various observations of the
 learned Transfer Pricing Officer with respect to
 Page | 20
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 the functions of the assessee and the functional
 profile of its employees. vii. Therefore, according to him the learned CIT (A)
 in a stereotype manner without considering the
 finding of the learned Assessing Officer has
 decided on inclusion or exclusion of the
 comparables. Thus, the order of the learned
 CIT (A) was stated to be unsustainable. 014. On the issue of applicability of Section 73 as per
 ground no.5 of the appeal, the learned Departmental
 Representative vehemently submitted that assessee
 has traded into securities and has incurred losses on
 transaction of shares and therefore, it is hit by
 provisions of Section 73 of the Act. 015. The learned Authorized Representative supported the
 order of the learned CIT (A) on the issue of various
 grounds in the appeal of the learned Assessing
 Officer. He submitted that

 i. each of the comparable company was analyzed
 by the learned CIT (A) and has correctly dealt
 with its inclusion or exclusion. He submitted
 that IDC India was appearing in the accept
 reject matrix of the assessee however the same
 was inadvertently rejected it was submitted
 before the learned transfer pricing Officer as
 per letter dated 10 January 2014 and before
 the learned CIT - A as per letter dated ninth
 Page | 21
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 may 2017 and therefore assessee did not
 cherry picked the comparable. He submitted
 that since IDC India is a comparable its
 inclusion could not be objected now. It was
 further stated that in the related party
 transaction disclosures of that company does
 not have any bearing on the profits of the
 company is only RPT transactions reflected was
 an increasing sundry debtors, which
 undisputedly had no impact on the profit and
 loss account. He further placed the detailed
 submission on the functional comparability by
 placing reliance on the website extract,
 disclosure and annual report on the information
 on employee functions furnished by the TPO. ii. With respect to the exclusion of IDFC
 investment advisors Ltd, Motilal Oswal
 investment advisors private limited and ladder
 up corporate advisory private limited, he
 submitted that the learned CIT - A has given
 his detailed finding that why the above
 comparable is to be excluded. The learned
 departmental representative did not challenge
 the reasons given by the learned CIT - A.

iii. With respect to ground no.5 of the appeal, he
 submitted that the learned CIT (A) has followed
 the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court
 on identical facts and circumstances and
 Page | 22
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 therefore, the provision of Section 73 of the Act
 does not apply. 016. On assessee's appeal, the learned authorized
 representative did not press ground number 1 and 2
 of the appeal regarding T P adjustment confirmed by
 the learned CIT - A of ₹20,80,796/-. 017. On the issue of disallowance under Section 14A of
 the Act, he submitted that though assessee has
 earned tax-free dividend income of ₹5,20,000/-
 assessee has stated it has not incurred any
 expenditure towards earning exempt income for the
 reason that it is holding only the shares of stock
 exchange for which it is broking. The learned
 Assessing Officer without saying anything has
 invoked the provisions of Section 14A read with Rule
 8D of the Rules and worked out the disallowances of
 ₹48,325/-. He submits that there is no satisfaction
 recorded by the learned Assessing Officer on the
 disallowance not offered by the assessee. He
 otherwise submitted that when the assessee hold
 shares of the stock exchange, where it is member,
 there is no expenditure as such incurred by the
 assessee. Therefore, disallowance under Section 14A of the Act should not have been made. He submitted
 that the learned CIT (A) did not consider any of the
 explanation, but has confirmed the disallowance. He
 referred to Para no.6.2 of the order. Even otherwise
 Page | 23
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 he submitted that the disallowance be restricted to
 the amount disallowed by the AO only 018. Coming to ground no.4, he submitted that assessee
 has incurred entertainment and conference
 expenses, repairs and maintenance expenses and
 books and periodicals expenses for the purpose of
 the business. Before the lower authorities, all these
 details were produced in the form of the ledger.
 However, an adhoc disallowance was made by the
 learned Assessing Officer and confirmed by the
 learned CIT (A). He submitted that there is no
 reason that why this adhoc disallowances could have
 been made. 019. During the course of hearing, an additional ground of
 appeal was raised by the assessee stating that in the
 research report service income segment
 comparability analysis Kshitij Investment company
 advisories limited has wrongly been considered as
 comparable. It was submitted that since it has
 undergone a realignment of business during the
 assessment year 2010-11, therefore, assessee
 submits that above ground should be admitted for
 the purpose of determination of Arm's Length Price.
 It was further stated that the above ground should
 be admitted relying on the decisions of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court. 020. The learned Departmental Representative
 vehemently objected to the same stating that
 Page | 24
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 additional ground cannot be admitted if the facts are
 not on record and further, same is required to be
 investigated. It was further stated that it is a factual
 aspect, which now at this stage cannot be
 entertained. 021. The learned Authorized Representative relied upon
 the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court in
 case of CIT vs. Tata Power Solar Systems Ltd. 77
 taxmann.com 326, stating that if a comparable has
 been included mistakenly, assessee has not been
 barred in law from withdrawing the comparable. 022. During the course of hearing, the assessee was also
 directed to explain and submit search process for
 research support services, which was submitted
 along with accept/ reject matrix for the same. It was
 submitted. The assessee was also asked about the
 comparability of the employee cost ratio between the
 assessee and IDC Ltd, it was submitted that the
 assessee employee cost was 34.9% whereas the
 employee cost of IDC India Ltd is 34.50%. 023. We have carefully considered the rival contention
 and perused the orders of the lower authorities along
 with the transfer pricing study report submitted by
 the assessee as well as further details called for by
 us. In the appeal of the revenue, the learned AO is
 aggrieved by the direction of the learned CIT - A to
 include IDC (India) Ltd, and to exclude IDSA
 investment advisors Ltd, Ledger up corporate
 Page | 25
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 advisory private limited and Motilal Oswal investment
 advisory private limited. 024. As per ground number 1 of the appeal, the assessee
 has challenged the order of the learned CIT - F for
 inclusion of cyber media research Ltd (formerly IDC
 (India) Ltd) stating that its inclusion does not
 support the functional comparability, absence of
 segmental account in spite of carrying out different
 segmental activities and the application of related
 party transaction filter. Further, it is also the claim of
 the assessing officer that without giving any
 opportunity to the learned assessing officer the
 learned CIT - A has directed for inclusion of the
 above comparable. The learned CIT - A has held that
 that this entity is engaged in research and analysis
 services based on the annual accounts and
 screenshot of the website of the company. The
 comparable has earned 90% of its revenue from
 market research and management consultancy. The
 learned CIT - A held that it is functionally
 comparable with the assessee's functions as
 assessee has provided the quantitative and
 qualitative analysis of companies, industries,
 markets, collection and verification of financial data
 and administration and application support services
 to its AE, the functions are comparable. With respect
 to the related party transaction filter, the learned CIT - A that it does not cross 25% of the revenue of the
 comparable company. To establish the functional
 Page | 26
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 comparability, we have also compared the employee
 cost of assessee and this comparable and we found
 that the total employee cost of the assessee out of
 the operating cost was 34.9% whereas in case of the
 comparable company it is 34.5%. However, in the
 original except reject matrix of the assessee this
 company appeared as a comparable. Inadvertently it
 was excluded. When the assessee pointed out the
 same before the learned TPO asking for its inclusion,
 the learned TPO held it to be functionally not
 comparable stating that the annual account of the
 assessee company are not reliable because of
 incorrect disclosure of related party transactions.
 Before us it was not shown that how the disclosure in
 the annual accounts of that company could be said to
 be erroneous without making any enquiry under section 133 (6) of the act. As no new facts,
 additional evidences were submitted by the assessee
 for its inclusion before the learned CIT - A, we do
 not find any infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A in directing the learned TPO to include the above
 comparable. Accordingly ground number 1 of the
 appeal of learned AO is dismissed 025. The learned assessing officer has challenged the
 order of the learned CIT - A as per ground number 2 - 4 with respect the order of the learned CIT - A that
 has excluded the IDFC investment advisors Ltd on
 the basis that it is engaged in the business of
 providing portfolio management services as a
 Page | 27
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

registered portfolio manager with the securities and
board of India which is having 90% of its revenue
coming from that stream and only 10% revenue
stream is from advisory services. The learned CIT -
A has also directed for exclusion of Ledger up
corporate advisory private limited, which is found to
be engaged primarily in the business of providing
investment banking services like that syndication,
private equity deals and other corporate advisory
mandates. It is also registered with the securities
and exchange board of India and therefore the
learned CIT - A held that it is engaged in merchant
banking activities and therefore not comparable to
the assessee. On the issue of exclusion of Motilal
Oswal investment advisors private limited, it was
held that it is engaged in the business of providing
investment banking, merchant banking services
based on the extracts of the annual reports. It was
also found that it is an investment banking company
engaged in providing comprehensive investment
banking solution. All these findings of the learned
CIT - A remain unchallenged by the learned
departmental representative before us. We find that
there is a reasonable basis for the learned CIT - A to
hold so that all these entities are selected as
comparable by the learned transfer pricing officer are
having different functions. Accordingly we do not find
any infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A and
 Page | 28
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 uphold the order of the learned CIT - A by dismissing
 ground number 2 - 4 of the appeal. 026. With respect to ground number 5 wherein the
 learned CIT - A has deleted the
 addition/disallowance of ₹ 23,106,114 on account of
 error trade loss,, the learned CIT - A deleted the
 disallowance following the decision of the honourable
 Bombay High Court in case of CIT versus HSBC securities and capital markets India private limited
 379 ITR 147. We also found that assessee does not
 have any share trading income and does not hold
 any stock in trade of equity except the shares of
 Bombay stock exchange. It is not also in dispute that
 losses have arising on account of error trades only.
 Therefore, provisions of section 73 of the income tax
 act with respect to the speculation loss does not
 apply in case of the assessee. Accordingly we do not
 find any infirmity in the order of the learned CIT - A
 in deleting the above disallowance. Ground number 5
 of the appeal of the learned assessing officer is
 dismissed. 027. Accordingly, ITA number 45/M/2018 filed by the
 learned assessing officer for assessment year 2010 -
 11 is dismissed. 028. Coming to ITA number 72/M/2018 filed by the
 assessee, ground number 1 and 2 of the appeal with
 respect to the transfer pricing adjustment of ₹
 Page | 29
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 2,080,796/- pertaining to brokerage services is not
 pressed , therefore same are dismissed. 029. Ground number 3 of the appeal is against the
 disallowance confirmed by the learned CIT - A of ₹
 48,325/- under section 14 A of the act read with rule
 8D. The assessee has also without prejudice raised
 an issue that no expenditure having direct and
 proximate connection with the earning of exempt
 income has been incurred by the appellant and thus
 no disallowances of expenditure incurred in relation
 to earning exempt income is warranted. The claim of
 the assessee is that assessee has earned tax-free
 income from shares of Bombay stock exchange Ltd
 as dividend. Assessee is stockbroker and was holding
 shares of Bombay stock exchange. On conversion of
 the Bombay stock exchange membership card of the
 assessee into the shares under the scheme of 2005
 assessee got equity shares. From these equity
 shares, assessee received the above dividend.
 Assessee claims that it has not incurred any
 expenditure for earning the dividend income. On the
 issue of not incurring any expenditure for earning
 dividend income , ld AO rejected stating that there is
 common pool of expenses for earning taxable and
 exempt income. The learned AO, disallowed ₹
 48,325/- applying rule 8D. On appeal before the
 learned CIT - A, he upheld the validity of rule 8D
 following his own order in assessee's case for earlier
 year and confirmed the disallowance. Assessee has
 Page | 30
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

twin claims before us, (i) non-recording of
satisfaction by the AO before invoking rule 8D and (ii) the assessee received the shares and has not
incurred any expenditure. We find that that
according to the Para number 5.2 the learned
assessing officer has categorically stated that there is
a composite use of funds and there is a common pool
of human and financial resources which are being
utilized by the assessee for earning income in various
forms and therefore the claim of the assessee that it
did not incur any expenditure towards earning of
exempt income is not correct. We find that the
satisfaction is recorded by the learned assessing
officer. We also find that the law does not require a
specific manner in which such satisfaction is to be
recorded. Further, we do not find any relevance of
dominant purpose of holding investments while
making disallowance under section 14 A of the act.
Thus, the claim of the assessee that the shares were
acquired on demutualization of Bombay stock
exchange membership card where assessee is a
stockbroker does not help the case of assessee. In
this case the total dividend income of ₹ 520,000 is
received and according to rule 8D, the learned that
AO has disallowed ₹ 48,325/-. We do not find any
infirmity in the order of the learned lower authorities
in confirming the above disallowance. Accordingly,
ground number 3 of the appeal of the assessee is
dismissed. Page | 31
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11 030. Ground number 4 of the assessee is against the ad
 hoc disallowance of 10% of entertainment and
 conference expenses, repair & maintenance
 expenses and books and periodical expenses. Fact
 shows that during the course of assessment
 proceedings the assessee was asked the details of
 these expenditure, assessee submitted the nature of
 these expenditure and the learned AO held that the
 explanation submitted by the assessee is very
 general and casual in nature and is not supported by
 any cogent evidences or strong nexus for inclination
 to say that the expenses has got a business
 incidence. On verification of details filed, it was
 observed by the AO, that these expenses are not
 fully supported by proper bills and vouchers and
 certain expenses are incurred through self-made
 vouchers in cash. Claim of ld AO is that Assessee has
 furnished some Ledger accounts for the said
 expenses however the assessee has not furnished
 sufficient detail to substantiate the claim of the
 expenses incurred for business and non business
 purposes separately as the volume of the same are
 huge and bulky. Accordingly the AO disallowed 20%
 of the above expenditure resulting into disallowance
 of ₹ 9,301,653/-. The learned CIT - A confirmed the
 action of the learned assessing officer however
 reduced the disallowance from 20% to the 10% of
 the total expenditure. We find that the learned CIT -
 A has confirmed the ad hoc disallowance by reducing
 Page | 32
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

the quantum of disallowance from 20% to 10%. We
find that the above expenditure incurred by the
assessee is merely 1.6% of the total expenditure
incurred by the assessee. In earlier years, no such
disallowances are made. Thus, this disallowance is
resulted only for this year. We find that, if the
assessing officer is not satisfied by any amount of
expenditure, the expenditure to that extent should
have been disallowed irrespective of its percentage.
Merely applying an ad hoc percentage to the total
expenditure for holding that such expenditure are
not bifurcated into business and non business
expenditure is not correct. It is not the case of the
revenue that any bogus expenditure has been
debited in the books of accounts. Further merely
because certain vouchers are held to be prepared by
self showing cash expenditure, does not result into
any illegality as there are certain types of
expenditure which are prepared on self made
vouchers and reimbursed or paid in cash, i.e. Petty
cash expenditure, conveyance etc. As such, the
assessee has submitted all the Ledgers of such
expenditure, which had proper narration of the
nature, and the amount spent along with the name
of the person who spent it. Further, the assessing
officer after obtaining the explanation of the
assessee did not further point out to the assessee
about specific instances of such expenditure with
respect to disallowance. As the disallowance is ad
 Page | 33
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 hoc without pointing out any instances of nature of
 expenditure which are not supported by voucher, we
 reverse the orders of the lower authorities and direct
 the learned assessing officer to delete the
 disallowance of 10% of such expenditure confirmed
 by the learned CIT - A amounting to ₹ 4,650,827/-.
 Accordingly ground number 4 of the appeal of the
 assessee is allowed 031. As the assessee has raised an additional ground with
 respect to the transfer pricing adjustment that Kshitij
 investment advisory Co Ltd is required to be
 excluded from the comparability analysis. On perusal
 of the transfer pricing study report, we found that
 while computing the arm's-length PLI of the
 assessee, assessee selected this comparable namely
 Kshitij investment advisory Co Ltd by prowess
 database having a margin of 23.46%. Thus, it is
 assessee's own comparable. The learned assessing
 officer/transfer pricing officer also did not dispute the
 above comparable as assessee selected the same
 and it was also functionally comparable as found by
 the lower authorities also. However before us
 assessee has stated that note number 14 (17) of
 notes to the accounts of Kshitij investment advisors
 Co Ltd has realigned its investment advisory
 activities by the alignment agreement effective from
 1 January 2010 wherein Everstone investment
 advisors private limited would be carrying on all
 investment advisory services. Thus with effect from
 Page | 34
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

that date the functionality of comparable is different. Thus, at least Comparable continued same activity
only for nine months of the year. This is in
extraordinary event, which has affected margin of
the comparable for that year. Therefore, it should be
excluded from comparability analysis. Honourable
Bombay High Court in CIT versus Tata Power solar systems limited (2017) 77 taxmann.com 326 (Bombay) wherein, Tribunal held that party is not
barred in law from withdrawing from its list of
comparables, if the same is found to have been
included on account of mistake as on facts, it is not
comparable, was upheld. In that case, the issue of
exclusion of a comparable, which was included by
the assessee, was argued before the TPO, it is not
permitted by the TPO. In this case also, though it
was not argued before the TPO, but first time argued
before us, for exclusion of Kshitij investment
advisory Ltd. We are also duty bound to compute
the ALP of international Transaction. Therefore, there
is not much difference whether it is challenged
before TPO or before us for the first time. We find
that comparable company with effect from 1
January 2010 has hived of its investment advisory
services to Everstone investment advisors private
limited. Therefore, there is an extraordinary event in
the comparable company, which has affected the
profitability/PLI of the comparable, as investment
advisory services business revenue/expenses is not
 Page | 35
 ITA Nos. 72 & 45/Mum/2018
 Citigroup Global Market (India) Private Limited; A.Y. 10-11

 to be included in the financial of comparable
 company from 1/1/2010. Therefore, we direct the
 learned AO/ TPO to exclude Kshitij investment
 advisory Co Ltd from comparability analysis. The
 additional ground raised by the assessee is thus
 allowed. 032. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is partly
 allowed. 033. Thus, for assessment year 2010 - 11, appeal of the
 AO is dismissed and appeal of the assessee is partly
 allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 25.10.2023. Sr. Private Secretary/ Asst. Registrar
 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai