A common Show Cause Notice (SCN) dated September 2, 2005 was

issued by Respondent to three Appellants, i.e., HB Stockholdings Ltd.,

Alaknanda Capital Services Pvt. Ltd. and Har Sai Investments Ltd.

pertaining to certain incidents which took place in the year 2000.

After prolonged and protracted proceedings, the investigation culminated

into the impugned order dated May 9, 2012, whereby the Respondent has

restrained the three Appellants from buying, selling or dealing in the

securities market, whatsoever, directly or indirectly for a period of two

years. With consent of the learned counsel for the parties concerned, these

three appeals were, therefore, heard together and are being disposed of by -3- this common order. For the sake of convenience, facts of Appeal no. 114 of

2012 ( HB Stockholdings Ltd. vs. SEBI ) have been taken as lead case. 2. Appellant in Appeal no. 114 of 2012, namely, HB Stockholdings Ltd.

(for short "HB") is in the sole business of investment in and sale/purchase of

securities in the capital market and its shares are listed on the National Stock

Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE) and the Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd. (BSE).

Appellant in Appeal no. 160 of 2012, namely, Alaknanda Capital Services

Pvt. Ltd. (for short "Alaknanda") is carrying on the business of dealing in

securities and the Appellant in Appeal no. 165 of 2012, namely, Har Sai

Investments Ltd. (for short "Har Sai") is a public limited company,

incorporated on January 2, 1995, and carrying on the sole business of sale

and purchase of securities in the capital market. As part of their normal

business activities and also as part of investment of funds available with

them, the Appellants traded in shares of various companies that are listed on

stock exchanges, including Delhi Stock Exchange Ltd. (DSE) and on NSE,

through members of such stock exchanges. One of the companies whose

shares Appellants traded in, in year 2000, was Jagsonpal Pharmaceuticals

Ltd. ("the Company"). 3. Brief facts leading to the present appeals are that the Respondent-

SEBI is stated to have conducted some investigation into dealings in the

scrip of the Company and reaching prima facie conclusion that all three

Appellants had undertaken synchronized trades during August 2000 to

December 2000 (the first period) and thereby the Appellants are alleged to

have manipulated the price of the scrip during relevant time. Price of the

scrip on NSE increased from Rs. 599/- as on August 18, 2000, touched a

high of Rs. 700/- on September, 11, 2000 and thereafter decreased to -4- Rs. 660/- on November 1, 2000. The Respondent also claims that there were

irregular patterns in volumes of trading on the Company's scrip, which

varied between 39,200 shares on October 31, 2000 to 5 shares as on August

18, 2000 and such a phenomenon was observed on both stock exchanges,

only on days, when the three Appellants traded in the scrip of the Company

during August to December 2000 and these artificial volumes in the scrip of

the Company, are considered injurious to healthy functioning of the capital

market. In fact, it is noteworthy that during July 2001 to October 2001 (the

second period), price of the same scrip on NSE fell down from Rs. 319.20

on July 2, 2001 to Rs. 129.50 on October 31, 2001. Since some of the

Appellants did not trade during the second period in the scrip, it does not

form part of present appeal. 4. Accordingly, the SCN was issued by the Respondent dated

September 2, 2005 under Sections 11(4)(b) and 11B of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 for the alleged violation of the

provisions of Regulation 4(a) , (b), (c) and (d) of Securities and Exchange

Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices

Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995, hereinafter referred to as

FUTP Regulations, 1995 for suspicious dealings in the scrip of the

Company during the first period. 5. It was alleged in the SCN that Appellants had entered into

structured/synchronized trades in the scrip of the Company listed on NSE

and DSE and that the noticees were related to each other. It is further

asserted that there was some abnormal price movement in the Company's

scrip during the period in question and on analysis of volume, an irregular

pattern was noted. Further, the time gap between the buy and sell orders -5- placed by one Appellant and the counter parties were of a mere few seconds

to few minutes, in some cases. Similarly, the price and quantity of shares

placed by parties in the transactions concerned was also the same, in most

cases. Moreover, orders were placed on a consistently higher price than the

previous day's closing price. Therefore, it was alleged that the Appellants

had acted with the malafide intention of creating a false market for the

Company's scrip. 6. The Appellant states that it requested the Respondent for supply of

documents which formed the basis of the SCN vide letter dated September

26, 2005, and some of the documents were provided to it and on the basis of

the available material supplied by the Respondent, a reply to the SCN was

submitted by the Appellant vide letter dated December 10, 2005. A personal

hearing also took place before the learned Whole Time Member (WTM) on

October 27, 2006 during which the Appellant raised certain preliminary

issues besides reiterating their request for the supply of additional

documents, as requested vide its letter dated October 27, 2006 to file an

effective and proper reply. However, nothing was done by the Respondent

to supply these additional documents for years together. 7. For more than four years after the hearing conducted by the learned

WTM, the Appellant received no communication from the Respondent and

suddenly on April 1, 2011 a notice of personal hearing - to be held on April

25, 2011, was received by the Appellant. Based on whatever material was

supplied by the Respondent, the Appellant presented its written

submissions, inter alia, contending that the long delay in concluding

proceedings against the Appellant itself was antithetic to the rule of law,

fairness and justice and as such proceedings in the matter, stood vitiated. -6- On persistent requests made by the Appellant, it received certain more

documents on May 10, 2011. The Appellant preferred an additional reply on

May 27, 2011 and once again reiterated their request for the following

documents:- Regarding non-supply of all relevant materials relied upon by the

Respondent for issue of the SCN, Mr. Desai stated that trade and order logs

could have been obtained by the Appellant from other sources like the stock

exchanges. Mr. Kumar Desai also submits that the Appellants have acted as

a group in collusion with each other to commit the objectionable acts in

question. One of the Appellants is also seen to have committed two or three

self-trades. The submission of Mr. Kumar Desai is that some 50-60 trades

could not have coincided without mischievous design on part of the

Appellants. According to the Respondent, the fact that the Appellants have

taken delivery and made payments for the trades in question as required by

law is not relevant. It is also submitted by the Respondent that once the

allegation of increase in volume stands established by learned WTM, other

issues become inconsequential. 15. Learned counsel for the Respondent has placed reliance on the

following judgments:- 16. We have heard the learned counsel for both the parties at length and

have minutely gone through the pleadings and written arguments etc.

brought on record by the parties as well as judgments cited before us. It is an

admitted position that the major charge of price manipulation has not been

proved by the learned WTM on basis of the documents and evidence

brought before him. Thus, the only question which remains for us to look

into is whether there was any abnormality in the volume of the scrip as a

result of the Appellants' trades. In this regard we have minutely perused the

SCN as well as documents, other material and certain graphs produced by

the parties before us. The facts clearly indicate that fluctuations of a similar

nature in the volumes of the scrip existed even during the period when the

Appellants did not execute any trade. The SCN itself makes it clear that

there were ups and downs in the volume during the preceding and

subsequent six months of the period of investigation in question. Therefore,

we find that the charge of volume manipulation is also hollow and baseless. 17. Further, it is not disputed by the Respondent that delivery of shares

was taken and payments were duly made by the Appellants for the trades in

question as required by law. It may be noted that synchronization of trades -13- is not per se illegal. It is actionable only if it is illegitimate and is the

outcome of a mischievous meeting of minds among certain parties. For this

purpose, the counter party, namely, Gloria Investment Limited has already

been exonerated by the Respondent. Moreover, no cogent and convincing

reasons are forthcoming from a reading of the SCN or the impugned order

to sustain such a charge of synchronization or creation of artificial volumes

against the Appellants. In this connection, we may also pertinently note that

the mere factum of one or two Appellants sharing common address or one

of the Appellants being the promoter of the other group at some point in

time are not in themselves sufficient to bring home the residual charge

against the Appellants. There has to be sufficient evidence on record to

clearly prove connivance on the part of the Appellants with a counter party

to prove the charge in question against the Appellants. In the absence of any

such evidence and unambiguous findings by the learned WTM to this effect,

we have no option but to quash the impugned order in question. 18. Next, the Appellants have brought on record certain circulars and

extracts from the Joint Parliamentary Report presented to the Parliament on

December 19, 2002 which, inter alia, clearly state that:- This fact is not denied by the Respondent. The Respondent has also given an

evasive reply as to the supply of complete trade and order logs of stock -14- exchanges which were not supplied to the Appellants by the Respondent at

any stage of the proceedings. Some extracts were, however, supplied to the

Appellants only when the proceedings were on the verge of completion and

some even thereafter. This undoubtedly prejudiced the Appellants in

exercising a crucial and valuable right to make an effective and proper

representation / defence against the charges in question. The evasive reply

given by the Respondent that the Appellants could have obtained the

documents from other sources is not only unacceptable to this Tribunal but

is also considered misconceived, since along with avoiding the

responsibility of supply of documents which are relied upon by the

Respondent it also suggests that the supply of relevant documents is not

their responsibility and that the same may be accessed through other means /

institutions; which can also be interpreted as the Respondent not being

concerned with proper supply of relevant documents to the Appellants,

which they are legally required to supply, in the interest of a level playing

field. This suggestion also implies that the Appellant may adopt legal or

other unfair or dilatory means for the procurement of relevant documents.

This Tribunal takes strong objection to this sort of unfair and evasive reply

and considers it its duty to bring it to the notice of all concerned that such

non-supply of relevant documents, in proper time and legible form, is the

responsibility of the concerned Adjudicating Officer. 19. Further, the charges have been framed and leveled by the Respondent

against the Appellants and, therefore, the onus of supplying complete

material on which the allegations were made and the impugned order was

based lies on the Respondent and no one else. This factor in itself amounts

to gross violation of the principles of natural justice in conducting the -15- proceedings against the Appellants. Undoubtedly, once such documents

form the basis of allegations and the subsequent punishment, the same

should be supplied to the Appellants in all fairness and also in consonance

with the principles of natural justice. 20. Lastly, we turn to the submissions of Mr. Rohit Kapadia and

Mr. P.N. Modi, learned senior counsel for the Appellants, regarding delay of

more than 11 to 12 years in completion of the proceedings against the

Appellants. At the outset, we make it clear that delay in itself may not be

fatal in each and every case. At the same time, if it is a case of unnatural and

unexplained delay, the Tribunal would be well within its right to interfere

with the matter on this count as well. In the instant case admittedly the

alleged trades took place in the year 2000. The first show cause notice itself

was issued by the Respondent on September 2, 2005 i.e. after a period of

more than five years had already lapsed. There is not even a whisper in the

impugned order to explain away such a long delay in issuing the SCN.

Furthermore, a personal hearing was given to the Appellants and replies etc.

were obtained from them on October 26, 2006. Thereafter, the Respondent

ought to have passed an order in question within a reasonable period of 2 to

3 months or so. The Respondent shockingly remained silent for a period

spanning more than four and a half years when abruptly a notice was issued

calling upon the Appellants to appear for a personal hearing on April 25,

2011. At this point we find it pertinent to note that human memory has a

short shelf life. Allowing matters to go on and on for years together by the

Respondent serves no purpose, rather it risks loss of evidence such as

important documents which may get destroyed while the issue gathers dust.

Such systemic failures occur to the disadvantage of all parties concerned

and lead to consequences such as genuine violators being allowed to -16- function normally in the capital market for years together, whereas in some

situations the reputation of innocent entities gets tarnished as they wait for

the wheels of justice to turn a bit faster than the pace at which they seem to

be going. 21. Further, adverse consequence of such a long delay on the Appellants

also needs to be noted. The Appellants did attend the personal hearing and

reiterated their request for supply of the investigation report and complete

trade and order logs of stock exchanges for the relevant period in question.

The same were not supplied and only certain extracts were provided to the

Appellants along with legible copies of certain documents which the

Appellants had been demanding for almost a decade. In this background,

the Appellants were compelled to make a feeble attempt to defend their case

on the basis of scanty and incomplete material supplied by the Respondent.

Even after the conclusion of the second sitting in April and May, 2011 the

Respondent took a period of around one year to pass the impugned order in

question on May 9, 2012. This unnatural delay of about 11 to 12 years in

initiation and completion of the proceedings against the Appellants has

caused definite prejudice to them. The law governing the field of fraudulent

and unfair trade practices has since been amended in the year 2003 and the

provisions which did not exist earlier have been brought into force. In the

impugned order we also note that the Respondent has utilized the amended

FUTP Regulations of 2003 not only for procedural matters but applied

substantive portions of the amended Regulations for holding the Appellant

guilty of the charge against them, which in itself is incorrect as far as

substantive law is concerned. Similarly, Section 11(4)(b) of SEBI Act, 1992

was amended in the year 2002 and brought into force w.e.f. October 29,

2002. This section did not exist when the alleged trades took place in the -17- year 2000. Thus, the existence of unnatural and unexplained delay of more

than a decade and prejudice caused due to such undue delay is writ large in

the matter. Therefore, the impugned order deserves to be quashed on this

ground as well. 22. At this stage, we would like to deal with some of the important

judgments cited by all the learned counsel appearing in the matter. We refer to the judgment cited by the Appellants in support of their

case in the matter of Subhkam Securities Private Limited vs. SEBI decided

by this Tribunal on July 25, 2012, in which Subhkam was accused of

creating artificial volumes in the scrip of Mascon Global Limited, thereby

manipulating the price of the same. A show cause notice was issued on

October 20, 2008 for trades executed by the appellant during August 1999

to March 2000 and December 2000 to March 2001, and a final order was

passed on March 2, 2012. While allowing the appeal this Tribunal held that

in cases of serious allegations such as market manipulation or insider

trading, expeditious disposal of proceedings alone would ensure that SEBI

carries out its duty of protecting investors' interests effectively. It was

further held that inordinate delay in conducting inquiries hangs like

Damocles' sword on market players and has a rather demoralizing effect on

them when they are ultimately exonerated of all charges. In the case in hand

too we note that an unexplained delay of around 13 years taints the entire

process of the investigation conducted by SEBI. 23. Next, in the case of Libord Finance Ltd. vs. SEBI , decided by this

Tribunal on March 31, 2008, it was alleged that promoters of one Mazda

Fabrics and Processors Ltd., which had come out with an IPO, manipulated -18- the issue and arranged applications to be made from various entities so as to

try and bail the issue out. The appellant, i.e., Libord, was lead manager to

the issue. The allegation against the appellant was that on the one hand, as

lead manager, it had failed to ensure that registrar to the issue was not

making irregular allotments with the sole purpose of bailing the issue out,

and on the other, having failed to notice irregularities the appellant helped

Mazda in reaching its subscription level. The IPO was launched in January

1996. It is noteworthy that a notice in the matter was finally issued after a

long lapse of 8 years on June 9, 2004. The Board was informed that the

Appellant had ceased to be a merchant banker since September 2000 as its

certificate of registration had not been renewed. The order in the matter was

passed by the Board on February 18, 2008. The Tribunal held that since the

Appellant had lost its registration as merchant banker there was no threat to

the securities market and, therefore, forbidding the Appellant from

accessing the securities market for a period of one month did not serve any

purpose. It was also observed that no proper reply could be filed in a

particular matter by any party after a lapse of 8 years from the occurrence of

the incident and that grave injustice would be caused to the delinquent in

such cases in complete violation of the principles of natural justice. 24. We now deal with the judgment in the case of Viram Investment Pvt.

Ltd. vs. SEBI , cited by the Appellant and decided by this Tribunal on

February 11, 2005. SEBI passed impugned order dated September 8, 2004

against Viram forbidding it from accessing the securities market for a period

of 6 months holding it guilty of executing synchronized trades in collusion

with a broking firm, OHM Stock Brokers Private Limited, with respect to

shares of M/s. Intellivision Software Limited. This Tribunal while allowing

the appeal held that executing trades calculated to create a false or -19- misleading appearance of trading in the securities market would be

objectionable acts calling for interference of SEBI. When the intent is not to

artificially influence the market and induce investors to buy or sell shares on

the basis of artificial transactions no wrongdoing can be established against

any entity even if it is proved that it indulged in synchronized trading. 25. In another judgment delivered by this Tribunal on October 31, 2003

in the case of Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI , relied upon by the

Appellant, the impugned order dated July 30, 2002 held the appellant in the

matter guilty of executing transactions to depress the price of scrips of

certain companies, thereby violating the Brokers' Code of Conduct. For this

violation, SEBI cancelled the registration of the appellant as broker. It was

held that nowhere in the impugned order had any attempt been made to

establish that the prices of the scrips in question had in fact fallen. No

exercise had been undertaken to determine the impact of the trades executed

on the price of the scrips before inferring that these trades led to any

artificial depression in the prices of the scrips. The appeal was, therefore,

partially allowed by setting aside the part of the impugned order cancelling

the certificate of registration. 26. In Porecha Global Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI, Porecha had acted as

stock broker for both the parties in a particular transaction, making it a cross

deal. Being a negotiated deal executed through the price and order matching

mechanism of the BSE, the buy and sell orders matched perfectly which led

SEBI to enquire into the concerned deals. After completion of the

investigation SEBI came to the conclusion that the Appellants had executed

structured and cross deals distorting the equilibrium of the scrip of Mobile

Telecommunications Ltd. The impugned order dated September 9, 2009, -20- disposing off the matter in which the impugned transaction took place in

October 2000 and the show cause notice was issued in 2004, held that the

appellants had failed to exercise due skill, care and diligence as brokers and

suspended its certificate of registration for a period of one month. This

Tribunal while allowing the appeal held that executing matching deals is a

perfectly valid method of trading as per SEBI's Circular dated September

14, 1999 and, therefore, the appellants had not committed any violation. 27. With respect to delay another case has been cited by the Appellants,

viz., the case of Khandwala Securities Limited vs. SEBI decided by this

Tribunal on September 7, 2012. The appeal had been filed against order

dated January 13, 2012 suspending the certificate of registration of the

appellant as a stock broker with SEBI for a period of one month. The

appellant was accused of violating the FUTP Regulations, 1995 and the

Brokers' Code of Conduct by executing trades in the year 2000 which were

in the nature of cross deals in conjunction with certain other entities, thereby

influencing the price of the scrip of Kopran Limited causing it to rise

without there being any fundamental technical factors for the occurrence of

such price rise. The appellant was also alleged to have gained wrongfully at

the expense of its clients by not informing them of the execution of the cross

deals in question. A show cause notice was finally issued almost 6 years

later on June 16, 2006, and after conducting an enquiry the impugned order

came to be passed in January 2012. The Tribunal took cognizance of the

delay of 12 years on the part of SEBI as a mitigating factor and held that the

punishment was not in consonance with the violation. It observed that

proceedings before the SEBI require finalization within a reasonable period

of time. 28. We may refer to the judgment cited by Mr. Kumar Desai in support

of the Respondent's case in the case of H.J. Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. SEBI,

Appeal no. 76 of 2012 decided on May 11, 2012. The appellant company

was a stock broker and had executed one-third of the total trades in respect

of the scrip of EdServ Softsystems Ltd. between March 2-9, 2009.

Investigation was immediately conducted not only by SEBI but also by the

BSE and the NSE. A show cause notice was issued by SEBI on June 24,

2011 and after conducting investigative proceedings against the Appellant,

the impugned order in that case came to be passed on February 7, 2012. On

preferring an appeal before this Tribunal, it was held that the appellant

operated through 19 jobbers from various locations and it resulted in

fictitious trades being executed. Such trades indeed created artificial

volumes in the scrip sending wrong signals to the investors with regard to

the trading in the said scrip. Moreover, the Appellant had executed self

trades for 2,00,725 shares on the date of listing of the scrip itself. In this

background, the Tribunal dismissed the appeal upholding the order of the

Respondent. However, in the case in hand there are hardly two or three self

trades of an insignificant amount of shares and that too as a result of

incorrect punching in of data. Therefore, the case of H.J. Securities Pvt. Ltd. (supra) does not advance the case of the Respondent. Further, in the case of H.J. Securities Pvt. Ltd. (supra), the investigation was promptly conducted

by the BSE as well as the NSE, and SEBI issued the SCN soon thereafter,

with the result that within a period of about one year, the impugned order

came to be issued against the appellant. There was no unnatural or undue

delay in conducting the proceedings against the appellant therein and in

passing the final order. In the case in hand, however, it has taken more than -22- a decade to complete the proceedings which is against the principles of

natural justice. 29. Similarly, in the case of M/s. Rajesh N. Jhaveri vs. SEBI, Appeal no.

49 of 2012 decided by this Tribunal on April 16, 2012, the appellant therein

traded in the scrip of M/s. Adani Exports Ltd. along with a few other entities

and manipulated the price of the scrip of the company. It was proved beyond

doubt even in the proceedings before the Respondent that as a result of the

manipulation there was a sharp increase in the price as well as the volume of

the scrip. The adjudication officer in that case duly provided all the details

of the transaction undertaken by the appellant in the scrip of M/s. Adani

Exports Ltd. and the appellant did not take any objection regarding supply

of trade and order logs or regarding undue delay in conducting the

proceedings before the Respondent. In fact, on reading of paragraph 9 of

M/s. Rajesh N. Jhaveri's judgment it becomes clear that the appellant in that

case was duly given trade logs relating to the transactions in the NSE.

En bloc supply of trade logs was rightly considered irrelevant by the

Respondent in that case . In the case in hand, however, the Respondent has

not supplied even the trade logs relating to the transactions undertaken by

the Appellants on various days and only a statement prepared by the

Respondent on their own, without disclosing the source or basis of the same

has been supplied to the Appellant at the fag-end of the enquiry proceedings

after a lapse of almost 10 to 11 years of the incident. Therefore, the facts or

ratio of the case of M/s. Rajesh N. Jhaveri (supra) is not attracted in the case

in hand to help the Respondent advance its case. 30. Mr. Kumar Desai further referred to the case of Anita Dalal vs. SEBI,

Appeal no. 211 of 2011 decided by this Tribunal on December 3, 2012. -23- In this case the appellant was an individual investor and also a trader in the

securities market. We note that in the case of Anita Dalal (supra), the

appellant therein had acted through Mr. C.J. Dalal, who happened to be her

husband and also her broker. The appellant was also a director of Krishvi

Securities Pvt. Ltd. which was a major counter party client in the dealings in

the scrip of various companies involved in that case . In this backdrop, the

act of synchronization was found to be objectionable and rightly so, on the

basis of the material on record. In fact, trade logs were also duly supplied to

the appellant and reverse trades were also conducted which were clearly

found to be against the regulations assisted by concrete evidence brought on

record in the case. In the case in hand we, however, note that "Gloria" the

counter party which is alleged to have acted in the matter of synchronization

of trades with the three Appellants has been exonerated. So there is no guilty

counter party in the present case with whom any meeting of minds could be

alleged and proved. Therefore, the present case is distinguishable from the

case of Anita Dalal (supra) and does not advance the case of the

Respondent. 31. Another case referred to by Mr. Kumar Desai is the case of Ketan

Parekh decided on July 14, 2006 in Appeal no. 2 of 2004. In Ketan Parekh,

the appellant himself was involved in an IPO scam and was debarred from

associating with the securities market for a period of 14 years. The

impugned order was based on two show cause notices dated March 27, 2002

and July 30, 2002 issued for manipulation in the scrip of Lupin Laboratories

Ltd., a pharmaceutical company. The persons intimately involved with

Ketan Parekh were also served with the same show cause notice.

The Respondent noticed significant rise in the price and volume of the scrip

of Lupin between September to December 1999 on the BSE and the NSE. -24- After issuing show cause notices dated March 27, 2002 and July 30, 2002

under Regulation 11 of the FUTP Regulations, 1995, the Respondent

initiated proceedings against the appellant on March 14, 2003. They

culminated into the impugned order dated December 12, 2003 mentioned

hereinabove. It was concluded, based on cogent evidence, that Ketan Parekh

and certain other entities were closely connected to each other in as much as

Ketan Parekh was admittedly a director in all those companies which had

connived together and created a sharp spurt in the trading volumes leading

to unforeseen and adverse consequences in the capital market. It was also

the unambiguous finding of SEBI in that case that the price of the scrip of

Lupin had substantially moved up in a short span of time accompanied with

the creation of large volumes in the trades which convinced the Tribunal of

the guilt of the Appellants, since this phenomenon was considered unusual

as compared to the trends during the same period in other pharmaceutical

companies like Ranbaxy, Glaxo, Novartis and Cipla etc. Thus, the main

charge in Ketan Parekh regarding price manipulation and circular trading by

repeatedly placing orders at a price higher than the last traded price by

Ketan Parekh and his own companies, in league with each other, was proved

on the basis of ample evidence on record. There were favourable admissions

by senior officers of the companies in which Ketan Parekh was director.

Moreover, the floating stock i.e. public shareholding of Lupin was very

small, therefore, Ketan Parekh could achieve his ill-conceived design in the

matter of manipulation of the price of the scrip of Lupin. Any one big order,

in Ketan Parekh 's case, had the potential of upsetting the market. Further,

the element inducing, which is an important ingredient of Regulation 4(a) of

FUTP Regulations 1995 had also been proved in that case of Ketan Parekh. In this background, the Tribunal, relying upon the judgment of the Hon'ble -25- Apex Court in the case of Delhi Development Authority (DDA) vs. Skipper

Construction Company Pvt. Ltd. reported in AIR 1996 SC 2005, applied the

doctrine of lifting the corporate veil and by doing so the Tribunal came to

the conclusion that it was Ketan Parekh who was lurking behind the

corporate curtain in the entire scam. This case cannot be applied to the

present three appeals, being totally different in facts. 32. We have also perused the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

the case of Ajay Agarwal (supra) as well as the judgment of the Hon'ble

Bombay High Court in the case of Ramrakh R. Bohra & Ors. vs. SEBI [(1998) 18 SCLR 543]. Ajay Agarwal 's case basically reiterates the settled

position of law that an amendment which is procedural in nature can be

applied retrospectively. This was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

context of the amendment of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

Act, 1992 bringing into the statute book Section 11B in the year 1995 and Section 11(4)(b) in the year 2002. Similarly, the case of Ramrakh R. Bohra

deals with the issue of rigging of certain scrips by a group of stock brokers.

They were restrained by SEBI from undertaking any fresh business during

the pendency of enquiry proceedings launched against them. On being

challenged before the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay, the Writ Petitions

were dismissed and the following observations were made by the Hon'ble

High Court of Bombay:- Both the judgments were in a different context and do not further the case of

the Respondent in the three appeals in hand. 33. In view of the above discussion of law and fact and in the peculiar

facts and circumstances of the case, we quash and set aside the impugned

order in each case and allow the three appeals on merit as well as on the

ground of unconscionable and unexplained delay of about 12 years in

initiating and completing the proceedings against the three Appellants in

question. No order as to costs. Sd/- Jog Singh
 Member

 Sd/- A.S. Lamba
 Member

27.08.2013
Prepared and compared by: