The draft Indian Telecommunication Bill, 2022 aims to create a “light-touch regulatory environment” that doesn’t hamper innovation or put excess regulatory burden, Union Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said when asked if platforms such as Facebook would require a license to operate. However, in the same breath, he added that strict regulations will also be put in place wherever needed. In his speech, the Union Minister also stressed on the importance of protecting consumers from telecom related frauds .

He was speaking at a media interaction held in Delhi on 23rd September. Watch the full video here .

Here are some important points on the recently released Draft Indian Telecommunication Bill, 2022 that Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw touched upon:

The Indian Telecommunication Bill, 2022 will replace the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885; the Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1932 and the Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950. It aims to improve regulatory certainty, protect users from fraud and make the existing laws simpler for telcos. However, experts have also raised privacy concerns over how applications like WhatsApp and Signal will be regulated which offer end-to-end encryption. The bill also allows the government to intercept direct messages in certain cases, just like its predecessor – the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885. However, interception and surveillance can now happen on a much larger scale as compared to the days when telegraphs and landlines were used. Millions of people share personal and private messages daily using various communication platforms.

This is not a final draft and the Department of Telecommunications is inviting comments on the bill. They can be sent to [email protected] by 20 th October.

The post was updated for clarity on 23 September, 2022 (7:37 pm).

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event