The court was hearing a plea that was filed after India’s computer emergency response team reportedly failed to respond to grievances and requests for an investigation into the data breaches.

The Delhi High Court on August 13 issued notice on a petition demanding a government investigation into reported data breaches at Air India , Domino’s Pizza , BigBasket , and MobiKwik . The petition was filed by the Free Software Movement of India, which made its petition available on its website. “The grievance raised in the present petition is that the [Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In)] is not taking any action qua the incidents of cyber security breaches and data leaks committed by various entities, despite the same being brought to its notice by the petitioner vide its detailed representations,” a single-judge bench of Justice Rekha Palli observed. Ajay Digpaul, Central Government Standing Counsel, asked for time to consult the government; the case will next be heard on September 23.

Litigation is emerging as the only recourse for Indians affected by data breaches. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 has been under examination by a Joint Parliamentary Committee for almost two years; the committee has now obtained an extension till December to present its findings, and to introduce the bill in Parliament. Without the bill being passed, India won’t have a Data Protection Authority that can look into breaches like these.

The government is addressing these breaches: in Parliament, (such as by saying they didn’t affect bureaucrats’ email addresses ) and in response to other countries’ data protection authorities , which Air India has been doing in the aftermath of a data breach at SITA, a contractor that handled its user data. Customers haven’t had much recourse or compensation, leading to two journalists filing a legal notice to the national air carrier demanding damages.

The petition by Y Kiran Chandra, the Secretary-General of the FSMI, said that it had reached out to CERT-In on four occasions . In response to the last communication, a grievance officer with CERT-In said “We would like to inform you that CERT-IN is aware of its responsibilities and does not require [FSMI’s] directions to investigate data breaches as highlighted by you. Organizations named in your notices have been directed to comply with the relevant provisions of law.”

In each of the four breaches, here’s the user data that was reportedly compromised:

Also read

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama and post your comment

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event