- Single accused namely Deepak Singh S/o Ram

Vinod Singh has been chargesheeted for facing trial in -:2:- S.C. NO. 38/07
 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

a case bearing FIR NO.479/06 for offence punishable

U/S 328/342/363/366/366-A/376/506/292-A IPC ,

as registered at P.S. Subzi Mandi, Delhi, on the basic

allegation of administering intoxicated tea upon the

victim, a minor girl less than 17 years, (Who

hereinafter to be referred as "prosecutrix"), on

14.09.2006 at her house and committing rape upon

her and extending threat to her and further

committing rape upon her for 2-3 times at her house

and thereafter, on 02.12.2006 kidnapping her to

Bahadurgarh (Haryana) with intent to compelled her

to get marry with him and again administering

intoxicated tea to the prosecutrix on 03.12.2006 in a

Hotel at Bahadurgarh. S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh 2. The precise case of the prosecution as found

reflected from the chargesheet is that on 03.12.2006

complainant Smt. Madhu, came to P.S. Subzi Mandi

and got recorded the Missing Report concerning her

daughter/prosecutrix, regarding her missing since

02.12.2007 vide DD No.11A, which is Ex.PW.11/A

and same was entrusted to ASI Kartar Singh but

prosecutrix could not traced out on that day.

Thereafter on 04.12.2006, complainant Smt. Madhu

again came to P.S. Subzi Mandi and got recorded her

statement Ex.PW.11/B, wherein raising suspicion as

against the accused Deepak Singh for kidnapping of

her daughter. In pursuance of said statement of

complainant Smt. Madhu, FIR bearing No.479/06 U/S

363 IPC , copy of which is Ex.PW.3/B was got -:4:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

registered at P.S. Subzi Mandi, Delhi on 04.12.2006.

After registration of the case, further investigation was

entrusted to ASI Kartar Singh. During the course of

investigation, prosecutrix was got recovered from the

company of the accused Deepak Singh at Bahadugarh

and thereafter, she was brought to Delhi, the

prosecutrix and the accused were medically examined,

the accused was interrogated, arrested and his

disclosure statement was recorded, police statement

of prosecutrix as well as her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C was recorded, relevant case properties were

seized, statement of relevant witnesses were recorded

and ultimately, after conclusion of the investigation

charge sheet was filed against the accused in the court

of concerned Ld. M.M., who after compliance of -:5:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

requirements U/S 207 Cr. P.C. was pleased to commit

the case to the Court of Sessions. Thereafter, this

matter was assigned to this court for trial. 3. On hearing both the sides on the point of

charge vide order dt. 11.07.2007 charge for the offence

punishable U/S328/366/366-A/342/376/506(I) IPC was framed against this accused to which accused

pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial. 4. During the course of trial, prosecution in

support of its case got examined 16 prosecution

witnesses, namely, Dr. Om Prakash, who has

medically examined the accused vide his report

Ex.PW.1/A on the back of the MLC of the accused, a -:6:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

formal witness as PW-1, Dr. Roopali Gupta, who has

medically examined the prosecutrix and proved her

MLC as Ex.PW.2/A, a formal witness as PW-2, HC

Vimla, Duty Officer, who has proved the copy of FIR

Ex.PW.3/B and copy of DD No.11/A as Mark A, a

formal witness as PW-3, Sh. Om Prakash, Dealing

Clerk from the Office of Birth & Death Registrar,

Nagar Parishad Bahadurgarh, Haryana, who has

proved the birth certificate of the prosecutrix as

PW.4/A showing her date of birth as 29.01.1990, a

formal witness as PW-4, Lady Ct. Kiran, who has

accompanied with the prosecutrix to the hospital for

her medical examination on 04.12.2006, a formal

witness as PW-5, Ct. Rajinder Singh, who has

accompanied with the I.O and is a witness to the -:7:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

recovery of the prosecutrix and arrest of accused at

Bahadurgarh, a formal witness as PW-6, Sh. Krishan

Kumar, who deposed to have sold one Mobile Phone

make NOKIA to the accused vide memo Ex.PW.7/A, a

formal witness as PW-7, Ct. Tarkeshwar, who has

deposited the case property at CFSL, Calcutta, a

formal witness as PW-8, Ct. Naresh Singh, who is a

witness to the disclosure statement of the accused, a

formal witness as PW-9, the prosecutrix, who is the

most material witness has been examined as PW-10,

Complainant Smt. Madhu, who is the mother of the

prosecutrix, also a material witness as PW-11, Sh.

Anil Kumar Sisodia, the then Ld. M.M, who has

proved the statement of the prosecutrix as recorded by

him U/S 164 Cr.P.C , Ex.PW.10/A/ Ex.PW.12/B, a -:8:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

formal witness as PW-12, Sh. Bhram Prakash, the

then Manager of Hotel "Thirty Miles Stone",

Bahadurgarh, a formal witness as PW-13, ASI

Kusum Lala, the last I.O as PW-14, ASI Kartar Singh,

the first I.O, who has narrated the details regarding

the investigation as carried out by him as PW.15, Dr.

Ajay Kumar, who has proved the MLC of the accused

as Ex.PW.16/A, a formal witness has been examined

as PW-16. 5. After examination of aforesaid 16 prosecution

witnesses, prosecution evidence was closed.

Thereafter, statement of accused U/S 313 Cr. P.C.

was recorded in which the accused denied the

allegation of prosecution and claimed to be innocent -:9:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

and have been falsely implicated in this case.

However, accused has not led any evidence in his

defence. 6. I have heard Sh. Abhishek Saran, Advocate,

Ld. Counsel for the accused, Ld. APP for the state and

perused the relevant material as available on case

record. 7. It is submitted by Ld. Counsel for the accused

that this accused is innocent and has been falsely

implicated in this case and hence deserves to be

acquitted. It is also submitted by Ld. Counsel that

this accused has been falsely implicated in this case

as he had lodged a complaint against the prosecutrix

and her mother for running a brothel in Bahadurgarh. -:10:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

It is also added by Ld. Counsel that MLC of the

prosecutrix reflect no external injury on the body of

the prosecutrix and same also falsify the allegation of

rape upon the prosecutrix and hence accused

deserves to be acquitted. It is further added by Ld.

Counsel for the accused that the falsity of this case is

found reflected from the fact that there are several

discrepancies in the deposition of PW-11, who is the

mother of the prosecutrix and PW-10, the prosecutrix

herself and hence accused deserves to be acquitted.

It is also added by Ld. Counsel that the prosecutrix

was of more than 18 years and her Birth Certificate

Ex.PW.4/A cannot be treated as reliable. It is also

added by Ld. Counsel that the deposition of the

prosecutrix cannot be treated as trustworthy and -:11:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

reliable being deposing falsely at the instance of her

mother and hence, accused deserves to be acquitted.

It is also added by ld. Counsel that even otherwise,

there is no evidence in respect of any injury on the

private part of the prosecutrix or feeding any

intoxicated material upon the prosecutrix. Ld. Counsel

also pointed out certain lapse on the part of I.O by not

examining the car driver or not joining public witness

in the recovery of prosecutrix from accused at

Bahadurgarh, or not getting ossification test of

prosecutrix. Thus, Ld. Counsel for the accused urged

for acquittal of the accused. 8. To the contrary it is submitted by Ld. APP for

the State that by examining 16 prosecution witness, -:12:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

prosecution have successfully established its case as

against accused for the charged offence and therefore

the accused deserves to be convicted accordingly. It

is also submitted by Ld. APP that from the perusal of

Birth Certificate of the prosecutrix, which is EX. PW-

4/A, it is clearly reflected that the date of birth of the

prosecutrix is 29.01.1990 and thus during the period

of kidnapping and rape, the prosecutrix was less than

17 years and as there are ample material evidence as

brought on record by the prosecution to establish the

fact that this accused has administered intoxicated

tea to the prosecutrix and committed rape upon her

and threatened her and have kidnapped her with

intent to compelled her marriage with him, the

accused deserves to be convicted for the charged -:13:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

offence. 9. The first question that arises having

significant bearing on the fate of this case is, "What

was the age of the prosecutrix during the period of

incident i.e. 14.09.2006 to 03.12.2006 ?" 10. Now the next question that arises having -:17:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

significant bearing on the fate of this case is, "Whether

this accused Deepak Singh can be held liable for

kidnapping the prosecutrix with intent to compel her

to marry against her will or to seduce her to illicit

intercourse and liable for offence punishable U/S 366 IPC ?" 2)AIR (32) 1945 Calcutta 432 " Manik Molla

 and Anr Vs. Emperor ". 11. Now the next question that arises having

significant bearing on the fate of this case is, "Whether

this accused Deepak Singh can be held liable for

offence punishable U/S 328/376/506 (I) IPC " ? -:24:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

 So far as this aspect is concerned, PW.10, the

prosecutrix deposed in the court that on 24.09.2008

(later on corrected as 14.09.2006) accused Deepak

Singh came to their house at 2166, Shora Kothi, Subzi

Mandi, Ghanta Ghar, Delhi, while she was alone and

requested her to prepare tea on which she prepared 2

cups of tea and placed the same on the table and

thereafter, accused Deepak Singh asked her to bring

one glass of water and she went to bring the same and

after coming back, she found accused Deepak Singh

taking tea and she also started taking tea there. After

sometime, she felt giddiness and became unconscious

and regained consciousness after about 3 - 4 hours

and found her body full of weight and she was was in -:25:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

naked condition and felt that she had been sexually

assaulted by accused Deepak Singh. She further

deposed that thereafter, she started weeping on seeing

her condition and accused Deepak Singh slapped her

when she told him that she would disclose about this

incident to her mother. Accused Deepak Singh also

threatened him not to disclose anything about the

incident to anyone. Prosecutrix further deposed that

accused Deepak Singh was having a mobile phone

with camera and threatened her not to disclose

anything about the incident to anyone as he had

prepared her nude video film in his mobile phone and

threatened her in case she disclosed about the said

incident to anyone then he would publish her nude

photograph in newspaper and show her nude -:26:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

photo/film to her family members and others. The

prosecutrix further added that thereafter, accused

Deepak Singh left their house and afterwards her

mother came but she did not disclose anything to her

about the said incident due to fear and threat as given

by the accused Deepak Singh to her. Prosecutrix

further deposed that after about 1 or 2 weeks from

this incident, accused Deepak Singh used to come to

their house alongwith her mobile phone and started

blackmailing her by saying that he would show her

nude film/video to her family members and others and

committed sexual intercourse 2 - 3 times upon her on

different occasions by blackmailing her at her house.

12 During the course of her deposition said -:27:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

PW.10 prosecutrix also added that on 03.12.2006

accused Deepak Singh took her to the Hotel "Thirty

Miles Stone" on the plea to get return her nude photos

and negatives and accused Deepak Singh took her in a

room of said hotel and after sometime brought 2 cups

of tea in the room and offered one cup of tea to her.

After taking said cup of tea, she felt giddiness and

became unconscious as happened with her earlier on

14.09.2006 and regained consciousness after 3 - 4

hours. She categorically deposed that she found

herself in the same situation as earlier incident on

14.09.2006. She further deposed that on that night

accused kept her in the said Hotel and ultimately on

the next day i.e 04.12.2006 took her to a chamber of

Advocate at court complex, Bahadurgarh, where -:28:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

accused compelled her to get marry with him and

stated her that he would give divorce to his wife and

ultimately at about 2 : 00 P.M her mother alongwith

Delhi police officials apprehended them at the court

complex, Bahadurgarh and brought them to Delhi.

The prosecutrix also deposed that on being brought to

Delhi by the police she was got medically examined.

She also added that her statement was also got

recored before Ld. M.M, which is Ex.PW.10/A. The

material part of the aforesaid deposition of PW.10

prosecutrix is also found corroborated from her earlier

statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C as recorded by PW.12, who

has proved her statement as Ex.PW.10/A /

Ex.PW.12/B. Further more, from the deposition of

PW.2 Dr. Rupali Gupta, who has medically examined -:29:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

the prosecutrix and proved her MLC as Ex.PW.2/A, it

is reflected that hymen of the prosecutrix was found

torn. Further more, from the perusal of the medical

report of the accused Deepak Singh, which is mark Z,

regarding potentency of the accused, it is found

mentioned as under : - 13. The substantive part of the deposition of the

PW-10, the prosecutrix and PW-11 Smt. Madhu, the

mother of the prosecutrix could not be demolished in

their cross-examination. No doubt some sort of

discrepancies have been brought on record in the -:30:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

cross-examination of PWs but I am of the considered

view that the said discrepancies are bound to occur in

the deposition of various witnesses being usual and

natural and even otherwise as they are found to be

formal in nature without striking at the root of the

matter and the same cannot be treated as fatal for the

prosecution. In the case reported as, "JT 1999 (9) SC

43 State of H.P. Vs. Lekhraj and another", it was

observed by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India as under St. Vs. Deepak Singh 16. Besides that, in the case reported as, 2006 II

AD (S.C.) 607, " Dinesh @ Buddha Vs. State of

Rajasthan " in para-11, it was observed by Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India as under :- "In the Indian Setting
 refusal to act on the testimony of
 the victim of sexual assault in the
 absence of corroboration as a rule,
 is adding insult to injury. A girl or a
 woman in the tradition bound non- permissive society of India would be
 extremely reluctant even to admit
 that any incident which is likely to
 reflect on her chastity had ever
 occurred. She would be conscious
 of the danger of being ostracized by
 the society and when in the face of -:36:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

 these factors the crime is brought
 to light, there is inbuilt assurance
 that the charge is genuine rather
 than fabricated. Just as a witness
 who has sustained an injury, which
 is not shown or believed to be self- inflicted, is the best witness in the
 sense that he is least likely to
 exculpate the real offender, the
 evidence of a victim of sex offence
 is entitled to great weight, absence
 of corroboration notwithstanding. A
 woman or a girl who is raped is not
 an accomplice. Corroboration is not
 the sine qua non for conviction in a
 rape case." 17. I also do not find any force in the submission

of Ld. Defence Counsel, who has pointed out certain -:37:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

lapse on the part of the I.O. by not examining the

driver of the car in which the accused and the

prosecutrix were brought from Bahadurgarh to Delhi

or any other independent witness at the time of

recovery of the prosecutrix from the company of the

accused at the court complex, Bahadurgarh or not

getting done ossification test of the prosecutrix. I am

of the considered view that mere lapse on the part of

the I.O. cannot be treated as fatal for the case of the

prosecution specifically when the deposition of other

prosecution witnesses are found trustworthy and

reliable. In the case reported as " State of U.P. Vs.

Hari Mohan and Anr. " 2000 (VIII) AD (SC) 389, it

was observed by Hon'ble Supreme Court to the effect

that, "failure of the I.O. cannot be allowed to -:38:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

become escape route for release of the accused." To the similar effect there is another decision of

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case reported as

" Ambika Prasad Vs. State ." 1997 (V) AD (SC) 467. In another case reported as " Manoj @ Mannu Vs.

State of Delhi " 2000 (I) AD (DELHI) 67, it was

observed by our Hon'ble High Court as under:- therefore the prosecution case cannot
 be thrown out on account of lapse
 committed by the I.O." In another case as rendered by Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in a case reported as (2003) 1 -:39:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

SCC 534, it was observed by Hon'ble Supreme Court

of India as under :- "Mere faulty investigation
 cannot be a ground for acquittal of the
 accused. For the fault of the
 prosecution, the perpetrators of a
 ghastly crime cannot be allowed to go
 scotfree." In the present case the I.O might not have

examined the driver of the car as might not have

considered his deposition as so relevant. Further

more, regarding non joining of any public witness at

the time of recovery of the prosecutrix, PW.15 ASI -:40:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

Kartar Singh/ I.O have clearly deposed that none

became ready to join the investigation at the time of

recovery of the prosecutrix and arrest of the accused

Deepak Singh at Bahadurgarh. Further more, not

getting the Ossification test of the prosecutrix by the

I.O cannot be treated as fatal in view of the fact that

the Birth Certificate of the prosecutrix was found

available with the I.O and that is why he might not

have think it proper for getting conduct the

ossification test and same cannot be treated as fatal

for the case of the prosecution. 18. I also do not find any force in the submission

of Ld. Counsel for the accused that the accused has -:41:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

been falsely implicated in this case by the prosecutrix

at the instance of her mother as both of them were

running brothel at their house and accused has

lodged complaint against them. I do not see as to

why a minor girl of less than 17 years or her mother

could go to the said extent and lodge such complaint

of serious nature as as against the accused. I am of

the considered view that a girl in the tradition bound

non-permissive society of India would be extremely

reluctant even to admit that any incident which is

likely to reflect on her chastity had ever occurred. She

would be conscious of the danger of being ostracized

by the society and when in the face of these factors

the crime is brought to light, there is inbuilt

assurance that the charge is genuine rather than -:42:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

fabricated. Further more, the accused have failed to

adduce any such evidence in respect of his aforesaid

defence stand for his false implication by the

prosecutrix at the instance of her mother in the

present case and therefore, said plea of the accused

appear to be baseless. 19. In the light of the aforesaid material as found

available on the case record and keeping in mind that

deposition of the prosecutrix PW-10 and mother of the

prosecutrix PW-11 and other connecting evidence, I

have no hesitation to safely conclude that this accused

can be held liable for offence punishable U/S

328/376/506(I) IPC . S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh 20. The net result of the aforesaid discussion is

that this accused Deepak Singh is found guilty for

offence punishable U/S 328/366/376/506 (I) IPC and

is convicted accordingly. Let, this convict be heard

separately on the point of sentence.

ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT (B.R. KEDIA)
On 3rd October, 2008 Addl. Sessions Judge
 Tis Hazari Courts
 Delhi. S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

 IN THE COURT OF SHRI B. R. KEDIA ; A.S.J.
 TIS HAZARI COURTS ; DELHI S.C. NO. 38/07 FIR NO. 479/06 P.S. Subzi Mandi
U/ Sec.328 / 366 / 376 / 506 (I) IPC (Convicted)

State Vs. Deepak Singh
 S/O Ram Vinod Singh
 R/O H. NO. 138,
 Gali No.3, Mahveer
Park,
 Bahadurgarh,
 Haryana. ORDER ON SENTENCE :- 21 months and thus, urged for taking lenient

consideration. 3. To the contrary, it is submitted by the Ld. APP -:46:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

for the State that since this convict is found to have

committed rape several times upon a minor girl, who

was of less than 17 years by blackmailing her and

have kidnapped her in order to compel her to get

marry with him and hence, this convict does not

deserve any leniency and adequate sentence be

awarded upon him. 4. Considering the aforesaid submissions from

both the sides and perusing the case record, I

consider it appropriate to impose sentence upon the

convict as under: - R.I. for 4 years and fine of Rs.1000/- and in

 default of payment of fine, additional R.I. for 1 -:47:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

month. b) For Offence punishable U/S 366 IPC -

R.I. for 4 years and fine of Rs.1000/- and in

default of payment of fine, additional R.I. for 1

month. c) For Offence punishable U/S 376 IPC -

R.I. for 7 years and fine of Rs.2000/- and in

default of payment of fine, additional R.I. for 2

months. d) For Offence punishable U/S 506 (I) IPC - R.I. for 1 year and fine of Rs. 1000/-

and in default of payment of fine, additional

R.I. for 1 month. S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

 However, it is made clear that all the

sentences of R.I. shall run concurrently and the

convict will be entitled for the benefit U/S 428 Cr. P.C.

and the period of his detention which is reflected from

the case record and as verified by the Court Reader

(From 04.12.2006 till date, except the Interim bail

period from 10.04.2008 to 20.05.2008) shall be set off

against the aforesaid substantive sentence period.

Concerned Jail Superintendent, Central Jail, Tihar be

intimated accordingly. 5. Let, a copy of the judgment dt. 03.10.2008

and copy of this order on sentence be given free of -:49:- S.C. NO. 38/07 St. Vs. Deepak Singh

cost to the convict Deepak Singh immediately.

ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT (B.R. KEDIA)
On 4th October, 2008 Addl. Sessions Judge
 Tis Hazari Courts
 Delhi.