SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need advice for a friend who is being threatened by his ex-manager to fail his background verification. Is there something he can do to save his job?
DATE: 2025-02-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1iiautk/need_advice_for_a_friend_who_is_being_threatened/

--- POST TEXT ---

A friend of mine is in trouble for leaving his company on bad terms around 3 years ago. He was preparing for competitive examinations while also doing a job (He had a bachelor's degree in commerce). When the exams approached, he asked for a 2 month leave, which was rejected by his manager because he wanted the guy to travel to some other city for doing some audit. The dates were even clashing with his exam dates.

After multiple requests, when the leave was not approved, he finally ended up absconding the job and somehow managed to get a letterhead, making a fake relieving letter. He put a total experience of 1.7 years on his resume for that role, which was how long he actually worked there. He cleared his exams and did some course and a couple of weeks ago, he was finally able to land his dream job in a big firm. Everything was going great until the background verification step. The HR guys from the new job mailed all of his previous employers for verifying his experience, and they also mailed the one company which he absconded. 

Today, he received a call from his ex manager and the call only lasted for a minute. He told my friend that he is gonna fail his verification and term him a fraud for absconding. Even after multiple requests and pleading, the ex manager didn't listen to anything and blocked my friend on everything.

The ex-manager said he is gonna mail the HR tomorrow morning about everything. My friend is clearly in the wrong here, but he is trapped and accepting his mistakes and taking accountability. He was able to land his dream job after 2 months of rigorous search, and now everything seems to be falling apart. 

Tomorrow is his joining date in the new company. He is depressed and crying for like 5 hours now. Is there a way he can save this job? If yes, what all can he bring to the table to prove that he actually worked there? He has all the salary receipts, but a forged relieving letter.