(Order of this Court was made by S.MANIKUMAR, J.)

 Instant Public Interest Litigation has been filed for the following

 Prayers:- 2. Case of the petitioner is that there are newspapers reports in

 all the leading newspapers and T.V.Channels, regarding cash for vote

 exists in Bye Elections and Lok Sabha, Elections and State Assembly

 Elections. A survey report also speak about the increasing cash for vote

 practice in Tamilnadu. According to him, corruption and vote for cash,

 being practiced in all the elections in Tamilnadu. If one political party has

 a overwhelming superiority in money, newspapers support and give

 patronage, and it will be almost impossible, barring an economic collapse,

 for it ever to be defeated. This would result in some voters being denied
http://www.judis.nic.in 6 an equal voice and some candidates, denied equal chance. Since taking

 money for casting votes in favour of a candidate is a mean act like

 auctioning the self esteem of an individual, voters should shun cash, for

 votes. Indian Democracy is the biggest democracy in the world. Meaning

 of democracy is by the people for the people and of the people. So, pay

 and get cash for casting vote is ugly one. 3. Petitioner has further submitted that all the political parties

 openly paid cash for vote, to the voters- in Madurai, Thirumangalam Bye

 Election held on 2009. A main major political party paid Rs.5,000/- each

 to the voters to caste their vote, to their favoured candidates. The

 election commission hands were tied and election commission officials

 were seen as silent spectators in Madurai, Thirumangalam Bye Election

 constituency. These news reported in all the leading newspapers all over

 India and the elected candidates failed to submit the election expenses in

 a proper manner and accounts submitted were totally not true and bona

 fide one. The Election Commission did not take any action on the elected

 candidate. 4. The petitioner has further submitted that Madurai

 Thirumangalam Bye Election in the year 2009 in the root cause of case,
http://www.judis.nic.in 7 for vote practice in Tamilnadu and earned a name, as Thirumangalam

 formula. Since the Election Commission has not taken a stringent action,

 Thirumangalam formula method spreaded all over India. In 2009

 Parliamentary Election, as Major Political Party in Madurai District gave

 Rs.500/-, as a bribe to each voter. Even in 2014 Parliamentary Election,

 two major political parties gave Rs.200/- as bribe to each voter. At that

 point of time, these news were reported in all the leading newspapers all

 over India. The Election Commission officials failed to control cash for

 vote practice and the officials were threatened by a major political party,

 which caused major law and order problems and made disturbances to a

 common man. The people ran from pillar to post and police made lathi

 charge in many places. But the Election Commission did not take any

 action on the elected candidate. 5. The petitioner has further submitted that on 21.04.2014,

 22.04.2014 and 23.04.2014 AIADMK party men distributed Rs.200/- for a

 vote to the people of Madurai Constituency. All leading newspapers

 published the news in Madurai. Some people caught hold of AIADMK men

 and handed over to the police. But, the police did not arrest them and

 not taken any action. In this regard, petitioner made a complaint to the

 Flying Squad and Election. Control Room. But, they did not come to the
http://www.judis.nic.in 8 occurrence place and all the government department machineries

 supported the ruling AIADMK party workers. Therefore, the election held

 in Madurai was not normal, and it was against democracy, Constitutional

 laws and Representation of the people Act 1951. In an RTI application,

 the Director General of Police, has stated that 3742 cases were reported

 in Tamil Nadu, during the Lok Sabha Election held in 2014. A sum of

 Rs.27,93.42,000/- (Rupees Twenty Seven crore ninety three lakh forty two

 thousand only) was seized in Tamil Nadu, during the Lok Sabha Election

 2014. 6. It is the further case of the petitioner that Election

 Commission of India issued a Notification on 01.04.2016 and declared

 Assembly Election in the following states, 1) Assam, 2) Kerala 3)

 Tamilnadu, 4) West Bengal, 5) Puducherry and the date of Tamilnadu

 State Assembly Election was declared on 16.05.2016. Two major political

 parties in Tamil Nadu bribed Rs.250/- to Rs.10,000/- to each voter all

 over Tamil Nadu, in the Tamil Nadu General Assembly election held on

 16.05.2016. The Election commission seized Rs.750 Crores. The major

 political party candidates spent between Rs.5 crores to 10 crores in their

 constituencies to attract voters, and to favour them. The candidates

 submitted false and fabricated accounts to the Election Commission and
http://www.judis.nic.in 9 cheated Election Commission and escaped from the clutches of law. 7. The petitioner has further submitted that due to the failure

 of flying squads, cash for vote created lot of problems and therefore, the

 assembly elections for Tanjore and Aravankurichi were postponed, thus

 cash for vote came to light to the entire nation. But cash for vote was

 practiced in all the 232 constituencies. The Election Commission received

 many complaints from most of the constituencies in the assembly election

 2016. But, the Election Commission did not take any stringent action and

 not postponed or cancelled the general assembly elections of Tamilnadu

 2016. Therefore, Tamil Nadu Assembly Election 2016 conducted by the

 Election Commission of India is invalid, not proper, not genuine and bona

 fide. 8. The petitioner has further submitted that even though

 hundreds of complaints were made about cash for vote practice all over

 234 constituencies in Tamil Nadu, the Election Commission formally

 postponed the election only in two constituencies, (1) Thanjore, (2)

 Aravankurichi, knowing fully well of the cash for vote, in all the 234

 constituencies. In the year 2016 Tamilnadu General Assembly,

 Mrs.J.Jayalalitha was elected and became the Chief Minister of Tamilnadu
http://www.judis.nic.in 10 and after some months, she died and as per the People Representation

 Act, 1951 , if a member of Legislative dies, bye-election should be

 conducted within 6 months. But the Election Commission of India

 announced the election on 12.04.2017 and all the major political parties

 in Tamilnadu, paid huge amount of money to the voters in R.K.Nagar Bye

 Election and since the Election Commission machineries failed to control

 cash for vote practice, postponed R.K.Nagar bye election. In this regard,

 W.P.No.24083 of 2017, was filed and an order was passed on 18.09.2017. 9. The petitioner has further submitted that two major political

 parties openly paid cash for vote to the voters in R.K.Nagar Bye Election

 held in the year 2018. These political parties paid Rs.20,000/- to each

 voter to cast his vote in favour of their candidates. The election

 commission hands were tied and the Election Commission Officials were

 seen as silent spectators in Chennai R.K.Nagar bye election constituency. These news were reported in all the leading newspapers all over India and

 that the elected candidate failed to submit the election expenses in a

 proper manner and accounts submitted were not true and bona fide. The

 election commission did not take any action on the elected candidate. http://www.judis.nic.in 11 10. The petitioner has further submitted that AIADMK party

 members promised money and thereby forced, threatened and gathered

 innocent people, along with children to sit for political rallies, in open

 fields for 4 to 5 hours without drinking water and other basic facilities

 under direct sun, in summer that lead many harmful injuries and loss of

 life and the same were questioned by the National Human Right

 Commission, New Delhi. Deaths were reported after meetings conducted

 by a leading political party at Viruthachalam on 11.04.2016 and at Salem

 on 20.04.2016. 11. All political parties are using plastic flags, plastic banner,

 plastic flex and plastic hoarding for political Election propaganda, which

 are the types of one time useable plastic, which should be banned from

 using in political election propagandas. 12. The petitioner has further submitted that the present wholly

 optional voting system in India has been the main root cause for the

 maximum corruption and bribery in this nation, as the political parties

 and their candidates are spending huge money, as a good business

 investment, in public elections to lure the voters to cast their votes by

 indirect compulsion in favour of a particular party candidate, by all sorts
http://www.judis.nic.in 12 of immoral methods, to cheat the mass of the average public. After

 coming to power, the huge money invested politicians are performing

 immoral and illegal process of earning manifolds of the investment which

 shall be more than enough for 10/100 of his/her generations, which

 makes them to lead the richest life without any work. 13. The petitioner has further submitted that while the political

 rules are engaged in corruption the beaurocrates, contractors,

 businessmen, Government employees etc., have also been taking active

 part in bribery and corruption system. 14. The petitioner has contended that following things may be

 enforced in the reform process of mandatory voting procedure. 15. Parliament has enacted the Representation of People Act, 1951 and some other Acts, to prevent and curtail the corrupt practice of cash

 for vote, to conduct a fair Election. For the past two decades citizens of

 India are in the daily news papers that most of the government heads,
http://www.judis.nic.in 14 Ministers of Central and State Governments, and higher officials are

 involved in corrupt practices, disproportionate assets over and above

 their income, their arrest and conviction etc. In India, there are so many

 laws enacted by the Parliament and State Legislatures, to prevent corrupt

 practices cash for vote by the politicians. But, the enacted laws are only

 in paper and the law enforcing authorities are not implementing the laws

 properly, because the implementing authorities also join hands with the

 corrupt politicians and higher officials of the Government. Higher officials

 of the Government escape from the clutches of law, by using their powers

 joining with corrupt politicians. Hence, Parliament of India has proposed

 to enact a law, to bring the corrupt politicians, into the clutches of law. 16. The petitioner has further submitted that in the last few years

 in Tamilnadu, politicians are paying cash for vote to the people and after

 coming to power, they are earning, by many corrupt practices, in all the

 departments of the state Government i.e., scam in allotment of River

 sand quarry permits, scam in grant of Licence for Mines and Minerals,

 scam in Granite, scam in Aavin Milk, scam in cutting of trees in

 Megamalai, scam in purchase of electricity, scam in appointment of

 TNPSC Group - I post, scam in purchase of eggs for the noon meal centres,

 scam in appointment made for the posts of school watchman on the basis
http://www.judis.nic.in 15 of MLAs and MPs recommendation, scam in appointment of noon meal

 employees etc., Further many criminal cases have been registered against

 former and present Ministers of the State Government, present and

 former MLAs and MPs of Tamilnadu for corrupt practices and purchase of

 assets disproportionate to their income. Since there is no stringent action

 or law, to crush the practice of cash for vote in the Representation of

 people Act 1951 or in other laws, politicians are not afraid to continue

 the practice of case for vote and politicians without fear submit false

 accounts to the Election Commission. The Election Commission is not

 taking strict action, on those who have filed false accounts. So, the

 politicians escape from the clutches of law without fear. 17. The petitioner has further submitted that even though the

 Honble Supreme Court, various High Courts and Law Commission of India

 have issued orders, given suggestions, observations, directions and

 reports, Government and Election Commission have not implemented the

 same, not made any reforms, and not strengthened the real democratic

 value. 18. For the abovesaid reasons, petitioner has sent a representation

 dated 04.03.2019, through email and ordinary post to the respondents by
http://www.judis.nic.in 16 seeking intervention in this regard. But till date, the respondents did not

 take any action, on the representation of the petitioner. Hence,

 petitioner has filed the instant writ petition, for the prayers, stated

 super. 19. Added further, Mr.M.Purushothaman, learned counsel for the

 petitioner fairly admitted that prayers 1 to 3 sought for are general in

 nature. He submitted that there is no adequate penal provision in the Representation of People Act, 1951 , that if an election is cancelled, at

 the instance of candidate or candidates, he/they should be disqualified

 from contesting the elections. On the above averments and submissions,

 he prayed for suitable directions. Inviting the attention of this Court to

 the orders made in W.P.No.18284 of 2016 dated 01.06.2016 and

 W.P.Nos.21149 of 2016, etc. batch of writ petitions, dated 14.06.2018,

 passed by Hon'ble Division Benches of this Court, prayed for suitable

 directions, on the prayers 4 and 5, respectively, like in Vishaka's case, and

 further submitted that in exercise of powers under Article 226 of the

 Constitution of India, High Court can issue such directions, to fill up the

 vacuum. http://www.judis.nic.in 17 20. Learned counsel for the petitioner also submitted that a brief

 note, and prayed for consideration, is extracted hereunder:- In order to ensure minimum standards of purity of elections the
 liability of political parties can be ensured by requiring them to file
 undertakings/affidavits like: 21. It is his further contention that acting on the orders of this 18 Court in W.P.Nos. 21149 of 2016 etc batch of writ petitions, a proposal

 has been made to the Parliament, to introduce Section 58 B to the Representation of People Act, 1951 . 22. Responding to the above contentions, Mr.Niranjan Rajagopalan,

 learned counsel for Election Commission of India, submitted that out of

 the five prayers sought for, in the writ petition, Model Code of Conduct

 issued, covers all the three issues and in addition to the above,

 periodically directions have been issued by the Election Commission of

 India. As regards removal of Hoardings, Flex Boards, Flag Poles, again the

 model code of conduct, governs the issue and in this context, he also

 invited the attention of this Court to the orders made in W.P.No.17768 of

 2016 dated 25.03.2019. 23. As regards the prayer, to register case against the head of the

 party who installs temporary or permanent flex boards/hoardings and

 establishes temporary dais, for public meeting in the middle of the road

 or pathway or junction or bazaar, by affecting traffic, there are

 provisions on the model code of conduct to take action, against the

 violators. On the aspect of bribery, Sections 171 (B) and 171 (E) of the

 Indian Penal Code, would be applicable. http://www.judis.nic.in 19 24. Inviting the attention of this Court, to the interim order dated

 14.03.2019, made in this writ petition, regarding political parties

 engaging vehicles, for carrying people to attend meetings, Mr.Niranjan

 Rajagopalan, learned counsel for Election Commission of India, submitted

 that under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and the rules framed there

 under, when there is a permit to carry, there cannot be a blanket order. In this context, he also referred to an order passed in W.P.No.11094 of

 2014, dated 17.04.2014. 25. In support of his contention on all the prayers sought for,

 Mr.Niranjan Rajagopalan, learned counsel for Election Commission of

 India, took us through the relevant provisions in the Model Code of

 Conduct, Compendium of Instruction on Election Expenditure Monitoring

 and the periodical orders issued by the Commission. He further submitted

 that under the SVEEP (Systematic Voter Education and Electoral

 Participation) initiatives, awareness is created among the public through

 various events. He also submitted that sufficient Flying Squad have been

 deployed in the constituency and depending upon the situation, Election

 Commission would increase deployment of the flying squad. Help line has

 already been notified and an App is also created in public domain.
http://www.judis.nic.in 20 Learned counsel for the Election Committee of India submitted that

 following the orders of the Kerala High Court, directions have been issued

 by the Election Commission of India, on the use of plastics, biomedical

 waste etc. 26. Finally he submitted that recoveries have been made and cases

 have been registered. For the above said reasons, he prayed for dismissal

 of the writ petition. 27. Heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused the

 materials available on record. 28. Petitioner has made averments in general, based on newspaper

 reports. Firstly writ based on newspaper report is not maintainable and it

 is worthwhile to consider few decisions:- These have to be proved and the manner of proving a newspaper
 report is well settled. Since, in this case, neither the reporter
 who heard the speech and sent the report was examined nor even
 his reports produced, the production of the newspaper by the
http://www.judis.nic.in
 Editor and publisher, PW4 by itself cannot amount to proving the 22 contents of the newspaper reports. Newspaper, is at the best
 secondary evidence of its contents and is not admissible in
 evidence without proper proof of the contents under the Indian
 Evidence Act . The learned trial Judge could not treat the
 newspaper reports as duly 'proved' only by the production of the
 copies of the newspaper. The election petitioner also examined
 Abrar Razi, PW5, who was the polling agent of the election
 petitioner and a resident of the locality in support of the
 correctness of the reports including advertisements and messages
 as published in the said newspaper. We have carefully perused his
 testimony and find that his evidence also falls short of proving the
 contents of the reports of the alleged speeches or the messages
 and the advertisements, which appeared in different issues of the
 newspaper. Since, the maker of the report which formed basis of
 the publications, did not appear in the court to depose about the
 facts as perceived by him, the facts contained in the published
 reports were clearly inadmissible. No evidence was led by the
 election petitioner to prove the contents of the messages and the
 advertisements as the original manuscript of the advertisements
 or the messages was not produced at the trial. No witness came
 forward to prove the receipt of the manuscript of any of the
 advertisements or the messages or the publication of the same in
 accordance with the manuscript. There is no satisfactory and
 reliable evidence on the record to even establish that the same
 were actually issued by IUML or MYL, ignoring for the time being,
 whether or not the appellant had any connection with IUML or MYL
 or that the same were published by him or with his consent by any
 other person or published by his election agent or by any other
 person with the consent of his election agent."
http://www.judis.nic.in 11.The Supreme Court dealing with a "pro bono publico" 12.In yet another decision in Dr.B.Singh Vs. Union of India
 (UOI) and others reported in 2004 (3) SCC 363 dealing with a
 public interest litigation, challenging the propriety of the third
 respondent therein for being considered for appointment as a
 Judge, the Supreme Court while expressing its anguish found that: 13. In matters relating to public interest litigation, the
 Supreme Court has time and again cautioned that the Court has to
 be satisfied about (a)the credentials of the applicant; (b) the
 prima facie correctness or nature of information given by him;
http://www.judis.nic.in c) the information being not vague and indefinite. The 24 information should show gravity and seriousness involved. Court
 has to strike balance between two conflicting interests; i)
 nobody should be allowed to indulge in wild and reckless
 allegations besmirching the character of others; and (ii)
 avoidance of public mischief and to avoid mischievous petitions
 seeking to assail, for oblique motives, justifiable executive
 actions. In such case, however, the Court cannot afford to be
 liberal. It has to be extremely careful to see that under the guise
 of redressing a public grievance, it does not encroach upon the
 sphere reserved by the Constitution to the Executive and the
 Legislature. The Court has to act ruthlessly while dealing with
 imposters and busy bodies or meddlesome interlopers
 impersonating as public spirited holy men. They masquerade as
 crusaders of justice. They pretend to act in the name of Pro Bono
 Publico, though they have no interest of the public or even of
 their own to protect. Reference can be made to the recent
 decision of the Apex Court in Holicow Pictures Pvt., Ltd., Vs.
 Prem Chandra Mishra and others reported in 2008 (1) CTC 711
 (Para 20)." (ii) After considering the decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court, at
 Paragraph 16, a Hon'ble Division Bench has observed as follows: 29. However, a Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court in

 W.P(MD).No.6062 of 2019, dated 14.03.2019, while ordering notice,

 issued the following direction. 30. On the aspect of registration of criminal cases and recovery,

 Inspector General of Police, Establishment-Cum-Nodal Officer of Police

 Headquarters for Election Expenditure Monitoring, Chennai, has sent a

 reply dated 25.03.2019 to the Chief Electoral Officer and Secretary to

 Government, Public (Elections-X) Department, Chennai, is extracted

 hereunder:- 31.15 Kg
 Panmasala Big Panmasala Big Bag - (Gold, Silvar, ornaments etc., seized and value in Rs.)
 Description and Qty. up to S. 24 .03.2019 Progressive seizure
 23.03.2019
 No.
 Qty. Value Qty. Value Qty. Value
 1 Gold-209.537 Kg 65,68,37,800 Nil Nil Gold-209.537 Kg 65,68,37,800
 Silver - 314.048
 2 Silver-317.048 Kg 1,36,01,528 Nil Nil 1,36,01,528
 Kg
 Silver Articles - Silver Articles - 3 18,21,000 Nil Nil 18,21,000
 330 Nos 330 Nos
 4 Zinc Bar No.11 66,60,000 Nil Nil Zinc Bar No.11 66,60,000
http://www.judis.nic.in (used in Silver (used in Silver 28 4. Total Precious metal seizure
 (Gold, Silvar, ornaments etc., seized and value in Rs.)
 work), Total work), Total
 weight Kg 222.425 weight Kg 222.425
 Gold coated Gold coated
 5 2,50,000 Nil Nil 2,50,000
 ornaments ornaments
 67,91,70,32
 Total Total 0 Total 67,91,70,328 8 Grand Total 67,91,70,328 5. Total other items/freebies seizure (Laptop, Cooker, Sarees etc., meant for inducement
 voters) and its value in Rs. Cr. 31. Details of Expenditure monitoring teams, are extracted
 hereunder:- 32. In addition to that, daily activity report on seizure of cash, is

 extracted hereunder:- 33. On prayers 1 to 3, Election Commission of India, has issued the

 Model Code of Conduct, Compendium of Instructions Election Expenditure

 Monitoring, and periodical orders, which we shall consider,

 Expenditure Observer (EO):- 2. Assistant Expenditure Observer (AEO): 3. Video Surveillance Teams (VST): 4. Video Viewing Team (VVT): 5. Accounting Team (AT): 6. Complaint Monitoring Control Room and Call Centre: 7. Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC) and Paid News: 8. Flying Squads (FS) and Static SurveillanceTeams (SSTs): 9. Expenditure Monitoring Cell: 10. Expenditure Sensitive Constituency (ESC) and Expenditure Sensitive
 Pockets (ESPs)
 On the basis of history, profile of the constituency and past developments, the
 CEO shall identify the constituencies which are prone to high expenditure and
 corrupt practices. Such a constituency shall be termed as an "Expenditure
 Sensitive Constituency". For such a constituency, there shall be two Assistant
 Expenditure Observers, such additional number of Flying Squads, Static
 Surveillance Teams and Video Surveillance Teams as required, over and above,
 those deployed in the remaining constituencies. The CEO should facilitate
 effective functioning of the teams engaged in expenditure monitoring work. The
 list of such constituencies should be sent to the Commission well in advance
 The Expenditure Sensitive Pockets are to be identified in consultation with the
 Expenditure Observer (during first visit), on the basis of the literacy or economic
 development or the number of complaints in the last election. Such pockets are
 to be kept under close vigil by the SSTs during last three days before elections. (i) The DEO and SP in consultation with the Expenditure Observer shall identify
 the Expenditure Sensitive Pockets in the constituency. These areas should be
 under 24x7 surveillance by the SSTs during the last three days of poll. There
 shall be a mix of CPF in the SST during this period. (ii) Where information is received that a candidate is indulging in high election
 expenditure, such candidate should be put under video surveillance all the time. 11. Nodal Officers (a) Nodal Officer in the CEO Office: The CEO shall appoint one senior officer in
 his office, not below the rank of Jt. CEO, for coordination on expenditure
 monitoring with Commission, training of election expenditure monitoring related
 personnel and political party functionaries, coordination with all the DEOs, other

http://www.judis.nic.in
 Nodal Officers in the state, Expenditure Observers, all enforcement agencies 41 involved in election expenditure monitoring and with the Commission. He will
 compile information regarding all types of seizure made during the election
 period and send the same to the Commission on a daily basis and also compile
 and send the same, in Annexure-C6, to the Commission by 1 PM on the day of
 poll. (b) Nodal Officer of Police: One officer of the level of Inspector General at the
 Police Head Quarters of the state, as selected by the Commission, shall be
 notified as the Nodal Officer for coordination with all flying squads, SSTs, law
 enforcement agencies and with the Commission. His office telephone/fax
 number and mobile number shall be intimated to the Expenditure Observers,
 Investigation Directorate, Excise Department and other law enforcement
 agencies during election. He shall train all the master trainers of the districts,
 who in turn shall train all personnel engaged in Flying Squad or SST. He shall be
 responsible for coordination with other law enforcement agencies, engaged in
 the election expenditure monitoring. He shall compile the seizure reports by the FSs and SSTs sent by the SPs of
 districts and send the composite Daily Activity Report as per Annexure- B8, B9 &
 B10 by fax to the Expenditure Monitoring Cell of Commission every day, with a
 copy to the CEO and also compile and furnish to the Commission in Annexure-
 C10 by 1 PM on the day of poll. (c) Nodal Officer of Income Tax: The Commission, before announcement of
 General Election, appoints a Nodal Officer in the office of DGIT (Inv) not below
 the rank of Addl./Joint DIT (Inv. Wing) for sharing of information etc. with the
 Commission and CEO of state for effective implementation of Election
 Expenditure Monitoring by way of seizure of unaccounted money suspected to be
 used in election etc. and submission on alternate days of the report in the
 prescribed format (Annexure- B15) and also compile and furnish to the
 Commission in Annexure-C9 by 1 PM on the day of poll. (d) Nodal Officer of Excise: The Commission, before announcement of General
 Election, appoints a Nodal Officer (Excise) not below the rank of Commissioner
 for flow of information etc. with the Commission and CEO of State for effective
 implementation of Election Expenditure Monitoring by reporting of seizures
 made of illicit liquors by them during electioneering and also for reporting of
 related statistics in the prescribed format. (Annexure- B14) and also compile and

http://www.judis.nic.in
 furnish to the Commission in Annexure-C8 by 1 PM on the day of poll. (e) Nodal Officer of Expenditure Monitoring Cell: The CEO shall collect district-wise report as to the total expenditure by the
 party during this period and also the period up to declaration of result and
 forward to the Commission within 45 days of declaration of result.
 The Toll free number in complaint Monitoring Cell shall be given wide publicity
 encouraging the public to register complaints.
 The Assistant Expenditure Observers (AEOs), FSs, SSTs, Video Surveillance Teams
 (VSTs), Video Viewing Teams (VVTs) and Accounting Teams shall continue with
 their duty only up to date of poll/re-poll. However, the AEOs and Accounting
 Teams shall report for duty one day before the day of counting and again on
 25th day after the date of declaration of result and shall remain for a period of
 eight days, for the purposes of giving training to the candidates/election agents
 in submission of accounts of election expenses and to assist in preparation of
 the DEOs Scrutiny Report and Expenditure Observer Report-IV. The AEOs and
 Account Teams shall be relieved thereafter. Flying Squad (FS):- A, with a copy to R.O., S.P. and the Expenditure Observers, and shall also send
 Daily Activity report in respect of model code of conduct violations to RO, DEO,
 S.P. and General Observer in the format as given in Annexure-B. The S. P. shall
 send daily activity report to Nodal Officer of Police Headquarter, who shall
 compile all such reports from the district and send a consolidated report in the
 same format ( i.e.,: Annexure – A & B) on the next day by fax/ e-mail to the

http://www.judis.nic.in
 Commission with a copy to the CEO of the state. 6. The entire proceeding shall be video recorded. The Incharge Officer
 of FS shall also file complaints/F.I.R. immediately against (i) the persons,
 receiving and giving bribe; and (ii) any other person from whom contraband
 items are seized, or (iii) any other antisocial elements found engaged in illegal
 activity. The copy of the complaint/FIR shall be displayed on the notice board of
 the R.O. for public information and be sent to the DEO, General Observer,
 Expenditure Observer and Police Observer. The Expenditure Observer shall
 mention it in the Shadow Observation Register, if it has links with any
 candidate’s election expenditure. 7. In case, a complaint is received about distribution of cash, gift items,
 liquor or free food; or about threat/ intimidation of electors; or of movement of
 arms/ammunitions/ antisocial elements and it is not possible for the FS to reach
 the spot immediately, then the information shall be passed on to the Static
 Surveillance Team, nearest to the spot or to the police station of that area, who
 shall rush a team to the spot for taking necessary action on the complaint. All
 seizures made by the police authorities either on receipt of complaints
 forwarded by FS or received independently shall also be reported to the FS
 which shall incorporate such seizure reports in its Daily Activity Reports in
 relevant rows/columns and this is done to avoid duplication of reports of
 seizure. 8. Each FS shall announce through a Public address system, fitted onto
 its vehicle, the following in local language in the area under its jurisdiction: “As
 per section 171 B of Indian Penal Code, any person giving or accepting any
 gratification in cash or kind during election process, with a view to inducing the
 person to exercise his electoral right is punishable with imprisonment up to one
 year or with fine or with both. Further, as per section 171 C of Indian Penal
 Code, any person who threatens any candidate or elector, or any other person,
 with injury of any kind, is punishable with imprisonment up to one year or with
 fine or both. Flying Squads have been formed to register cases against both the
 giver and the taker of bribe and for taking action against those who are engaged
 in threat and intimidation of electors. All the Citizens are hereby requested to
 refrain from taking any bribe and in case, anybody offers any bribe or is having
 knowledge about the bribe or cases of threat/intimidation of electors, then he
 should inform on the toll free number……………., of the 24x7 Complaint

http://www.judis.nic.in
 Monitoring Cell of the district, set up for receiving the complaints”. 9. As per Commission’s instruction No. 23/1/2015-ERS, dated 21-02-
 2015, Booth Level Awareness Groups (BAGs) formed for purification and
 authentication of electoral rolls of the booth will also be associated in collecting
 the evidences of malpractices taking place in their area either by mobile
 software developed by the Commission or otherwise. Whenever the BAG
 provides any information, the Flying Squad should reach the spot within shortest
 possible time and take necessary action and gather corroborative evidences. 10. The DEO shall publish pamphlets quoting the above in English or
 Hindi or local language and distribute through the flying squad in prominent
 places. Press release should also be issued by the DEO on the election
 expenditure monitoring measures. 11. After the announcement of elections, DEO shall make an appeal as
 mentioned in para 8 above in print and electronic media for the benefit of
 general public about the monitoring mechanism, which is being put in place
 during election process. 12. All the vehicles used by the Flying Squads shall be fitted with the
 CCTV cameras/ webcams or shall have video cameras (keeping in view the
 availability and economic viability) for recording the interception made by the
 Flying Squads" 30.Restoration of property to original state where it is dealt with in
 contravention of section 9 .- (1) Where any person has erected any building or
 made or extended any excavation or carried out any mining or other operation
 or made any material change in the use of land, or constructed, formed or laid
 out any work of means of access or any other acts in contravention of section 9 or in contravention of any of the terms and conditions of the permission
 granted under sub-section (2) of section 26 , the 'Highways authority may, by
 order, require such person to restore the land or building to its original
 condition or to bring the land or building in conformity with the terms and
 conditions specified in such permission, within such period as may be specified
 in the order. (2) If such person fails to comply with such order within the
 period specified in the order, the Highways authority may itself take such
 measures as appear to it to be necessary to give effect to the order and
 recover the cost thereof from such person as an arrear of land revenue. Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 : 3[223. Power to allow certain projections and erections.—(1) The
 Commissioner may grant a licence, subject to such conditions and restrictions
 as he may think fit, to the owner or occupier of any premises— (a) to put up or continue to have verandas, balconies, sun-hades, weather
 frames and the like, to project over a street.Or (b) in streets in which the
 construction of arcades has been sanctioned by the council, to put up or
 continue to have an arcade, or to construct or to continue to have any step or
 drain-covering necessary for access to the premises]. http://www.judis.nic.in
 (2) With the concurrence of the commissioner of police, the commissioner may 49 grant a licence. Subject to such conditions and restrictions as he may think, fit,
 for any temporary construction in any street or in any public place, the control
 of which is vested in the corporation. (3) No licence shall be granted under sub-section (1) if the projection or
 construction is likely to be injurious to health or cause public inconvenience or
 otherwise materially interfere or result in material interference with the use
 of the road as such. (4) On the expiry of any period for which a licence has been granted under this
 or after due communication of an order of suspension or revocation of such
 licence, the commissioner may, without notice, cause any projection or
 construction put up under sub-section (1) or (2) to be removed, and the cost of
 so doing shall be recoverable in the manner provided in section 387 from the
 person to whom the licence was granted. 1[(5) The council shall have power to lease road sides and street margin vested
 in the corporation for occupation on such terms and conditions and the such
 period as it may fix : Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 Section 220: and further, . (b) if no penalty has been specially provided in this Act for so
 doing such act the person so doing it shall be punishable with fine not
 exceeding fifty rupees for such offence. (6) Whenever any person is convicted
 of an offence in respect of the failure to obtain any such licence or permission,
 the Magistrate shall, in addition to any fine which may be imposed, recover
 summarily and pay over to the panchayat the amount of the fee chargeable for
 the licence or permission, and may, in his discretion, also recover summarily
 and pay over to the panchayat such amount, if any as he may fix as the costs of
 the prosecution. Explanation:- The recovery of the fee for a licence or
 permission under this subsection shall not entitle the person convicted to the
 licence or permission. Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Prohibition against obstruction in or over Public
 Roads, removal of encroachments, etc.,) Rules, 2000: (2) No person shall make a hole, or cause any obstruction in any public
 road other than these places specified in sub-rule (1) unless he previously
 obtains the permission of the Executive Authority or Commissioner and
 complies with such conditions as the Executive Authority or Commissioner may
 impose. (3) When such permission is granted, such person shall, at his own
 expense, cause such hole or obstruction to be sufficiently fenced and enclosed
 until the hole or obstruction is filled up or removed and shall cause such hole
 or obstruction to be sufficiently lighted during the night. (4) If any person contravenes the provisions of this rule, the Executive
 Authority or Commissioner shall fill up the hole or remove the obstruction or
 cause the hole or obstruction to be lighted, as the case may be, and may free
 cover the cost of so doing from such person. 6. A perusal and consideration of the above cited statutory provisions
 and rules would prima facie disclose that erection of flagpoles by any political
 parties or organisation without license or permission is prohibited. But the said
 provisions are complied with rather in breach and in by way of compliant and

http://www.judis.nic.in
 the Local body authorities concerned, for the reason best known to them, 53 turning a blind eye to the said unlawful activities, the result being, pedestrians
 as well as the road users are put to grave risk and peril. In the event of those
 flag polls and other temporary constructions likely to fall down, ultimately, it
 may be the duty of the State to compensate them without putting any liability
 and responsibility on the violators. Therefore, it is for the Local Body concerned
 to ensure that no flagpoles are erected on the road margin, especially on the
 platforms or arches put up across the roads without prior permission / license as
 contemplated under the said provisions. 7. Call on 09.01.2019. Status reports / counter affidavits of the
 respondents with supporting documents, if any, by then. 3. Though directions have been granted on 03.12.2018 to the
 respondents to file a status reports / counter affidavits, no report or counter
 affidavit has been filed. 4. On 28.01.2019, when the matter came up for further hearing, having
 regard to the submission of the learned Additional Government Pleader that the
 flag pole in question has already been removed by the Collector of Salem
 District, and taking note of the request to grant time to file a status report, the
 Hon'ble Division Bench passed another order on 28.01.2019, as hereunder. This Court while entertaining the writ petition has passed a detailed
 order on 03.12.2018, as to the alleged menace of erecting flag polls near the
 side of the State / National Highways etc., and directed the official respondents
 to file status report and counter affidavit. 2. When the matter is listed today, Mr.E.Manoharan, learned Additional
 Government Pleader appearing for the State Government would submit that flag
 polls in question has been removed by the Collector of Salem District and seeks
 further time to file status report in that regard. The erection of flag polls near
 the road / State and National Highways is going on for quite some time and
 therefore, this Court requires the response of the 1st respondents also. Call on 18.02.2019 with supporting documents, if any, by then. 5. Today, when the matter came up for further hearing, on the basis of
 the instructions, Mr.E.Manoharan, learned Additional Government Pleader
 submitted that pursuant to the order of this Court made in W.P.No.17768 of

http://www.judis.nic.in
 2016 dated 03.12.2018, extracted supra, Additional Secretary to the 54 Government, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, Chennai, 6th
 respondent herein, has issued instructions to the Director of Rural Development
 and Panchayat Raj Department, Chennai to furnish the details of the action
 taken report to the Government and to file the status report / counter affidavit.
 Following which, the Director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
 Department, Chennai has issued a circular to all the District Collectors to take
 immediate action, as per the directions of this Court in W.P.No.17768 of 2016
 dated 03.12.2018, so as to regulate erection of flag poles on the road margin,
 especially on the platforms or arches, etc. and send an action taken report in
 this regard to the Directorate immediately. 6. Letter dated 07.02.2019 of the Additional Secretary to the
 Government, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, Chennai, 6th
 respondent and the circular dated 13.02.2019 of the Director of Rural
 Development and Panchayat Raj Department, Chennai, to all the District
 Collectors are reproduced hereunder. Rural Development and
 Panchayat Raj Department
 Secretariat, Chennai - 9. Website : www.tnrd.gov.in
 Telephone: (044)-25675135
 Fax No.: (044)-25675849

 Letter No.28383/PR.2/2018-1 dated 07.02.2019

 From
 Dr.Pinky Jowel, IAS,
 Additional Secretary to Government. To
 The Director of Rural Development
 and Panchayat Raj,
 Chennai - 15. http://www.judis.nic.in
 Sir, 55 Sub: RD&PR Department - W.P.No.17768 of 2016 filed by
 Thiru.A.Radhakrishnan, with a prayer to take action to remove the
 flagpoles erected in the public places permanently and to put ban on
 erection of flagpoles in public places - Regarding. Ref: Orders passed by the High Court of Madras dated
 3.12.2018 in W.P.No.17768/2016. ---- I am directed to enclose a copy of the High Court cited, wherein the
 High Court has observed as follows:- Yours faithfully,
 sd/- Roc.No.7575/2019/PRI 1-4, Dated: 13.02.2019.
 Sir,
 Sub: Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department - W.P.No.17768 of 2016 filed by

http://www.judis.nic.in
 Thiru.A.Radhakrishnan, with a prayer to take action 56 to remove the flagpoles erected in public places
 permanently and to put ban on erection of flagpoles
 in public places - Regarding. Ref: 1. Orders passed by the Hon'ble High Court of
 Madras, dt.3.12.2018 in W.P. No.17768/2016 2. The Government letter No.28383/ PR 2 /2018 - 1
 dated:07.02.2019. 3. The Government letter No.28383/ PR 2 /2018 - 1
 dated:08.02.2019. *****
 I invite kind attention to the references cited.
 In the reference 1st cited, the Hon'ble High Court of Madras in W.P.
 No.17768/2016 has ordered as follows: Hence, I request you to take immediate action on the above matter, so
 as to regulate the erection of flag poles on the road margin, especially on the
 platforms or arches, etc. and send an action taken report in this regard to this
 Directorate immediately. Encl.: Ref.1
 for Director
 Copy to: ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA
 Nirvachan Sadan, Ashoka Road, New Delhi - 110 001
 No.437 /6/INST/2012-CC&BE Dated:18th January, 2012
 To 1) The Cabinet Secretary,
 Cabinet Secretariat,
 Rashtrapati Bhawan, New Delhi. 2) The Chief Secretaries of all States and UTs. 3) The Chief Electoral Officers of all States and UTs. Subject- Prevention of defacement of Property and other campaign related
 items revised instructions - regarding. Sir/Madam
 I am directed to state that on the announcement of the General
 Elections to the Legislative Assemblies of the States of Goa, Manipur, Punjab,
 Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the provisions of Model Code of Conduct have
 come into force w.e.f. 24th December, 2011. The Commission has decided to
 reiterate its instructions issued vide its letter no. 3/7/2008/JS-II dated 7th
 October, 2008 (copy enclosed) contained in Para 5 under the heading
 ‘DEFACEMENT OF PRIVATE PLACES’, as under: - Subject- Prevention of defacement of Property and other campaign related
 items - revised instructions - regarding. http://www.judis.nic.in
 Sir, 59 I am directed to invite a reference to the Commission’s letter
 No.3/7/2007/JS-II, dated 16th October, 2007, regarding prevention of
 defacement of property in connection with election campaign. 2. In the past, the Commission has suggested the enactment of special
 laws by state governments for dealing with defacement of properties
 effectively. Some states have enacted special legislations to govern and regulate
 defacement of property, While the other states have legislation that either only
 cover specific areas, like municipalities etc., or have no legislation at all. A
 tabular statement on respective positions obtaining in the states in this respect
 based on the information available in the Commission is enclosed in the
 schedule appended to this circular (marked as Annexure-I). Since a uniform law
 throughout the country is not available, what is enforceable differs from state
 to state. Keeping in view the forthcoming general election to the LokSabha due
 in 2009, it has become necessary to lay down, for smooth conduct of campaign
 during elections and for clear understanding of all authorities who have the
 responsibility for the implementation at the field level as also of the observers
 who are deputed to oversee the elections in different states/constituencies, a
 comprehensive set of guidelines with respect to defacement of property. 3. After considering all aspects of the matter in depth, the Commission
 has, in supersession of the earlier instructions, laid down the following
 directions, to be followed by political parties, candidates, individuals and
 organizations etc. during the election period: 4 (a) No wall writing, pasting of posters/papers or defacement in any
 other form, or erecting/displaying of cutouts, hoardings, banners, flags etc.
 shall be permitted on any Government premise (including civil structures
 therein). For this purpose a Government premise would include any Govt. office
 and the campus wherein the office building is situated. (b) If the local law expressly permits or provides for writing of slogans,
 displaying poster, etc., or erecting cut-outs, hoardings, banners, political
 advertisement, etc., in any public place (as against a Govt. premise) on
 payment or otherwise, this 46 may be allowed strictly in accordance with the
 relevant provisions of the law and subject to Court orders, if any on this subject.
 It should be ensured that any such place is not dominated/monopolized by any

http://www.judis.nic.in
 particular party(ies) or candidate(s). All parties and candidates should be 60 provided equal opportunity in this regard. (c) If there is a specifically earmarked place provided for displaying
 advertisements in a public place, e.g. bill boards, hoardings etc. and if such
 space is already let out to any agency for further allocation to individual clients,
 the District Election Officer through the municipal authority concerned, if any,
 should ensure that all political parties and candidates get equitable opportunity
 to have access to such advertisement space for election related advertisements
 during the election period. Defacement of Private Places 5. (a) In the States where there is no local law on the subject, and
 subject to the restrictions under the law where there is a law, temporary and
 easily removable advertisement materials, such as flags and banners may be put
 up in private premises with the voluntary permission of the occupant. The
 permission should be an act of free will and not extracted by any pressure or
 threat. Such banner or flag should not create any nuisance to others. Photo-copy
 of the voluntary permission in writing obtained in this connection should be
 submitted to the Returning Officer within 3 days of putting up the flags and
 banners in such cases in the manner prescribed in sub para(c) below. (b) If the local law does not expressly permit wall writing, pasting of
 poster, and similar other permanent/semi-permanent defacement which is not
 easily removable, the same shall not be resorted to under any circumstances,
 even on the pretext of having obtained the consent of the owner of the
 property. This will also apply in the states where there is no local law on the
 subject of prevention of defacement of property. (c) Where the local law expressly permits wall writings and pasting of
 posters, putting up hoardings, banners, etc. on private premises with the
 owner’s permission, the contesting candidates or the political parties concerned
 shall obtain prior written permission from the owner of the property and submit
 photocopies of the same within3days to the Returning Officer or an officer
 designated by him for the purpose, together with a statement in the enclosed
 proforma (marked as Annexure-2). The statement in such cases and in the cases
 mentioned in sub-para (a) above should clearly mention therein the name and
 address of the owner of the property from whom such permission has been

http://www.judis.nic.in
 obtained together with expenditure incurred or likely to be incurred for the 61 purpose. Nothing inflammatory or likely to incite 47 disaffection amongst
 communities shall be permissible in such writings/display. The expenditure
 incurred in this mode on specific campaign of candidate(s) shall be added to the
 election expenditure made by the candidate. Expenditure incurred on exclusive
 campaign for a party without indicating any candidate shall not be added to
 candidate’s expenditure. The contesting candidate shall furnish such
 information village/locality/town-wise, to the Returning Officer, or the
 authorized officer within 3 days of obtaining the requisite permission, for easy
 checking by the Returning Officer or the Election Observer or any officer
 connected with the conduct of elections. (d) Subject to any restrictions under any local law or any court orders in
 force, the political parties, candidates, their agents, workers and supporters
 may put up banners,buntings flags, cut-outs, on their own property, provided
 they do soon their own volition, voluntarily and without any pressure from any
 party, organization or person, and provided further that these do not cause any
 inconvenience in any manner to anyone else. If such display of banners, flags
 etc. aims to solicit vote for any particular candidate, then the provisions of Section 171H of the IPC would be attracted and would have to be followed. Section 171H of the IPC stipulates that whoever without the general or special
 authority in writing of a candidate incurs or authorizes expenses on account of
 the holding of any public meeting, or upon any advertisement, circular or
 publication, or in any other way whatsoever for the purpose of promoting or
 procuring the election of such candidate, shall be punished with fine which may
 extend to five hundred rupees: Provided that if any person having incurred any
 such expenses not exceeding the amount of ten rupees without authority obtains
 within ten days from the date on which such expenses were incurred the
 approval in writing of the candidate, he shall be deemed to have incurred such
 expenses with the authority of the candidate. DEFACEMENT OF HALLS/AUDITORIUMS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTIES 6. In the case of Halls/Auditoriums/Meeting venues owned/controlled by
 the Government/ local authorities/PSUs/Cooperatives, if the law/guidelines
 governing their use do not preclude political meetings therein, there is no

http://www.judis.nic.in
 objection to it. It shall be ensured that the allocation is done on equitable basis 62 and that there is no monopolization by any political party or candidates. In such
 venues, displaying of banners, buntings, flags, cut-outs, may be permitted
 during the period of meetings subject to any restrictions under the law/
 guidelines in force. Such banners, flags, etc. shall be got removed by the
 party/individual who used the premises immediately after conclusion of the
 meeting, and in any case within a reasonable period after the meeting is over.
 Permanent/Semi-Permanent defacement such as wall writing/pasting of posters
 etc. shall not be permitted in such premises. 7. If any political party/association/candidate/person indulges in
 defacement of any property in violation of the local law, if any, or the above
 instructions, the Returning Officer/District Election Officer shall issue notice to
 the offender for removing the defacement forthwith. If the political
 party/association/candidate/person does not respond promptly, the district
 authorities may take action to remove the defacement, and the expenses
 incurred in the process shall be recovered from the political party/
 association/candidate/person responsible for the defacement. Further, the
 amount also shall be added to the election expenditure of the candidate
 concerned, and action should also be initiated to prosecute the offender under
 the provisions of the relevant law (under the law relating to prevention of
 defacement, if any, or under the provisions of the general law for causing willful
 damage to the property of others). DEFACEMENT OF VEHICLES 8. (a) In private vehicles, subject to the provisions of the Motor Vehicles
 Act , Rules thereunder and subject to court orders in force, if any, flags and
 stickers may be put on the vehicles by the owner of the vehicle on his own
 volition, in such a manner that they do not cause any inconvenience or
 distraction to other road users. If such display of flags and stickers aims to
 solicit vote for any particular candidate, then the provisions of Section 171H of
 the IPC would be attracted and would have to be followed. (b) On commercial vehicles, display of any flag, sticker etc. shall not be
 permitted, unless such vehicle is a vehicle validly used for election campaign
 after obtaining the requisite permit from the District Election Officer/Returning
 Officer and the display thereof in original on the wind screen. http://www.judis.nic.in (c) External modification of vehicles including fitting of Loudspeaker 63 thereon, would be subject to the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act /Rules and
 any other Local Act/Rules. Vehicles with modifications and special campaign
 vehicles like Video Rath etc., can be used only after obtaining the requisite
 permission from the competent authorities under the Motor Vehicles Act . OTHER CAMPAIGN RELATED ITEMS 9. Subject to accounting for the expenditure, the following may be
 permitted:- aided, private or Govt. shall not be used for political campaigns and rallies. 10. The Chief Electoral Officers are requested to bring the directions of
 the Commission to the notice of the District Election Officers, Returning Officers
 and all other election related authorities, and all political parties in the State,
 including State units of recognized National and State parties, and all registered
 un-recognized parties based in the State, and also the contesting candidates (at
 the time of elections) for information and compliance. 11. Please acknowledge receipt of this letter. The Chief Electoral
 Officers may kindly confirm that action as required above has been taken. Annexure-1
 Defacement of Properties – Law
 Sl. No. Name of State/ UT Name of Act /Rule Extent of applicability 1. Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh It extends to the entire
 Prevention of Disfigurement State. Disfigurement) Act, 1985. force in the areas
 comprised in the
 Municipal Corporation of
 Shimla at once and shall
 come into force in the
 remaining part of the
 State on such date as
 the State Govt. may by
 notification, appoint. 8. Jharkhand No separate law/Act but the It extends to the entire
 Bihar Prevention of State. Defacement of Property Act,
 1985 is applicable in the
 state. 9. Jammu &Kashmir The Jammu & Kashmir It extends to the entire
 Prevention of Defacement of State. Property Act No. XIX of 1985. 10. Karnataka The Karnataka Open Places It extends to Bangalore,
 (Prevention of Mysore, Hubli, Dharwar,
 Disfigurement) Act, 1981 as Mangalore and Belgaun
 amended vide Act of 1983. constituted or continued
 under the Karnataka
 Municipal Corporation
 Act – 1976, or under any
 other law on 05.05.81
 and come into force in
 the Municipalities,
 notified areas, sanitary
 Boards, constituted or
 continued under the Karnataka Municipalities
 Act – 1964, or under any
 other law, or in any
 other local area, on such
 date, as the State
 Government may by
http://www.judis.nic.in notification appoint. Sl. No. Name of State/ UT Name of Act /Rule Extent of applicability 11. Madhya Pradesh The Madhya Pradesh It extends to the entire
 Sampatti Virupan Nivaran State. Adhiniyam, 1994. It extends
 to the entire State. 12. Maharashtra Maharashtra Act No. VIII of Nothing is specifically
 1995 – regarding prevention mentioned about the
 of Defacement of Property. extent of applicability. 13. Mizoram The Mizoram Prevention of It extends to the entire
 Defacement of Property Act, State. 1995. 14. Nagaland The Nagaland Prevention of It extends to the
 Defacement of Property Act, notified areas
 1958. constituted under the
 Assam Tribal Areas
 (Administration of Tow
 Committee) regulation
 1950, in any other local
 area or areas, on such
 date, as the State Govt. may by notification may
 appoint. 15. Punjab The Punjab Prevention of It extends to the entire
 Defacement of Property Act, State. 1998. 16. Sikkim The Sikkim Prevention of It extends to the entire
 Defacement of Property Act, State. 1988. 17. Tamil Nadu The Tamil Nadu Open Places It extends to the entire
 (Prevention of State. Disfigurement) Act, 1959, as
 amended vide Act of 1992. 18. Tripura The Tripura Prevention of It extends to the entire
 Defacement of Property Act, State and shall apply in
 1976 in conjunction with the first instance to
 Tripura (Prevention of municipal limits of
 Defacement of Property) Agartala Town, but the
 Amendment Bill, 1998 now in State Govt. may from
 force in the State. time to time by
 notification in the
 official Gazette, apply
 to such other local areas
 or areas as may be
 specified in the
 notification. 19. Uttarakhand The Uttaranchal Prevention It extends to the entire
 of Defacement of Public State. Property Act , 2003 20. Andaman & Nicobar The Andaman & Nicobar It extends to the entire
 Islands Prevention of Union Territory of the
 Defacement of Property Andaman and Nicobar
 Regulation, 1987. Islands. http://www.judis.nic.in 66 Sl. No. Name of State/ UT Name of Act /Rule Extent of applicability 21. Chandigarh UT The West Bengal Prevention It extends to the entire
 of Defacement of Property State. Act, 1976 has been made
 applicable in Chandigarh UT. 22. Delhi The West Bengal Prevention It extends to the entire
 of Defacement of Property State. Disfigurement) Act, 2000. the Pondicherry. States in which there is no specific Law on the subject of Prevention
 of Defacement of Property

 Sl.No. Name of State / UT 1. Assam No law / Act 2. Gujarat No law / Act 3. Kerala No law / Act 4. Manipur No law / Act 5. Meghalaya No law / Act 6. Orissa No law / Act 7. Rajasthan No specific law on the subject but
 there is a provision in Section 198
 of Rajasthan Municipalities Act,
 1959 that without the consent of
 the owner or occupier and in case
 of Municipal Property, without the
 permission in writing of the board,
 affixing any poster, bill, placard
 or other paper or means of
 advertisement is punishable with
 fine which may extend to twenty
 rupees. 8. Uttar Pradesh No law / Act 9. West Bengal The earlier West Bengal
 Prevention of Defacement of
 Property Act, 1976 (West Bengal
 Act XXI of 1976). This Act has
 since been repealed. 10. Dadra & N.Haveli No law / Act

http://www.judis.nic.in 11. Daman and Diu No law / Act 67 Sl.No. Name of State / UT 12. Lakshdweep No law / Act

 Annexure-2
 State showing the details of wall-writings / posters / hoardings / banners, etc.
 displayed by Shri / Smt./ Ms._________________, contesting candidate in
 _____________ Parliamentary Constituency / Assembly Constituency. Name of the Village / Town / Locality _____________

 S.No. Name and address of Details of Wall-Writing or Expenditure incurred or
 the owner of the Hoardings or Banners or likely to be incurred on
 private property from Poster (Size of wall the wall - writing /
 whom written writing / hoarding / hoarding / banner /
 permission has been banner / poster shall be posters, etc.
 obtained indicated (Rs.)

 Total 8. Writ petition has been filed in the year 2016, contending that
 political parties were erecting flagpoles near State / National Highways. Though
 instructions dated 18.01.2012 can be made applicable only when the Code of
 Conduct comes into force, nevertheless, the same has to be strictly
 implemented in the ensuing elections, both parliamentary and State elections. 9. Almost three months have elapsed from 03.12.2018, when this Court
 directed the respondents to file status reports / counter affidavits. Though
 Mr.E.Manoharan, learned Additional Government Pleader submitted that
 Highways has taken up the exercise of removing the flagpoles, there are no
 materials. 10. District Collectors of all Districts are directed to submit the status
 report, as to the existing of the number of poles, in their respective Districts,
 with or without permission and the steps taken for removal. Reports should
 contain all the particulars of action taken. 11. Additional Secretary to the Government, Rural Development and
 Panchayat Raj Department, Chennai, is directed to file a consolidated report,

http://www.judis.nic.in
 for all the Districts, with copies of reports submitted by the District Collectors. 12. Commission, Greater Chennai, Corporation of Chennai is also
 directed to file a similar status report / counter affidavit. 13. Similarly, National Highways Authority of India, Chennai, also to
 submit a status report and the details of action taken." 35. Pursuant to the same, parties therein, have submitted reports,

 which this considered on 25.03.2019, as follows:- Learned Additional Government Pleader further submitted that the list does not
 include Chennai. During the course of hearing on the information furnished, he
 submitted that out 799 flag poles, 308 flag poles, have been removed. 3. As regards Chennai District, learned Additional Government Pleader
 submitted that the exact number of poles erected without permission and
 removed, is yet to be received by him. Letter dated 23.3.2019 of Director of
 Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Panagal Building, Saidapet, Chennai - 15,
 addressed to the Additional Chief Secretary to Governemnt, Rural Development
 and Panchayat Raj Department, Chennai - 9, is reproduced hereunder: Roc. No.7575/2019/PRI 1-4, Dated 23.03.2019
 Sir,

 Sub: Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department - W.P. No.17768 of 2016 filed by Thiru.A.Radhakrishnan
 with a prayer to take action to remove the flagpoles
http://www.judis.nic.in erected in public places permanently and to put ban 69 on erection of flagpoles in public places – Action taken
 report submitted – Regarding. Ref: 1.Orders passed by the Hon'ble High Court of Madras,
 dt.03.12.2018 in W.P. No.17768/2016 2.Government letter No.28383/PR.2/2018-1
 dated: 07.02.2019 3.Government letter No.28383/PR.2/2018-1
 dated 08.02.2019 4. DRD & PR – Ref. No. Roc. No.7575/2019/PRI 1-4,
 Dated: 13.02.2019 5. Orders passed by the Hon'ble High Court of Madras,
 dt.08.03.2019 in W.P. No.17768/2016 6. The Addl. Govt. Pleader, High Court Chennai – 104
 reference dated: 12.03.2019 7. Government letter No.28383/PR.2/2018-1
 dated: 18.03.2019 8. Government letter No.28383/PR.2/2018-1
 dated: 19.03.2019 9. DRD & PR – Ref. No. Roc. No.7575/2019/PRI 1-4,
 Dated: 21.03.2019 10. Reports received from the Dist. Collectors
 *******
 I invite kind attention to the references cited. In the Government reference 7th and 8th cited, it has been instructed to
 submit the status report, as to the existing of the number of poles in the
 Districts, with or without permission from the competent authority and the
 steps taken for removal, as ordered by the Hon'ble High Court of Madras in its
 judgment dated 08.03.2019 in W.P. No.17768/2016. In this regard, it is submitted that in the reference 4th cited, necessary
 instructions have already been issued to all the District Collectors to take
 immediate action based on the directions issued by the Hon'ble High Court of
 Madras - vide refernece 1st cited. The District Collectors have also been
 requested to give necessary directions to all the Block Development Officers to
 regulate the erection of flag poles on the road margin, especially on the
 platforms or arches and also they have been requested to send an action taken
 report in this regard. Further, as ordered by the Hon'ble High Court of Madras in the reference
 5th cited and also as instructed by the Government in the references 7th and
 8th cited, all the District Collectors have been requested to send an action
 taken report on the above subject with the details of the number of poles with
 or without permission and the steps taken for removal - vide this Directorate
 reference 9th cited. Accordingly, in the reference 10th cited, all the District Collectors have
 sent their reports regarding the action taken by them for the removal of flag
 poles in public places with the details of the number of poles with or without
 permission. The reports received from all the District Collectors are enclosed
 herewith for submitting the same before the Hon'ble High Court of Madras. http://www.judis.nic.in
 Encl: Reports recd. from 31 Districts. Sd/K.Baskaran,
 Director

 for Director

 Copy to: Ramanathapuram District : Code of Conduct - W.P.No.17768 of 2016 - Removal of flag
 poles - Action taken report - sent - regarding. Ref: Govt. email/Letter No.5261/Elec.VIII/2019-1 dated 23-03-
 2019. I invite kind attention to the reference cited and would like to state that
 the particulars in connection with the status report on flag poles in State
 Highways, National Highways (including NHAI), local bodies are furnished in the
 prescribed format as detailed below:- Erode. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ref.No.555/2019/K1, Dated: 24.03.2019

 Sir,

 Sub: Elections - General Elections to Lok Sabha, 2019 - Erode
 District - M.C.C. - W.P.No.17768/2016 filed before the High
 Court of Madras at Chennai regarding removal of flag poles in public
 places - Filing of Action taken report - Report called for -
 Submitted. http://www.judis.nic.in Ref: The Chief Electoral Officer and Secretary to Government, 76 Chennai Letter No.e.mail/5261/Elec.VIII/2019-1 Dated: ((((()))))
 I invite kind attention to the reference cited and I enclose herewith the
 report on the removal of flag poles in public places such as National High Way
 Roads, State High Way Roads and in Local bodies in the prescribed format as
 follows: Virudhunagar District - Model Code of Conduct -
 W.P.No.17768/2016 - Submitting action taken
 report - Regarding

 Ref: Letter received from the Chief Electoral Officer/Secretary
 to Government, Public (Elections.VIII) Department in
 Roc.No.email.Letter No.5261/Elec.VIII/2019-1 Dated:- 23.03.2019. ****
 In compliance to the letter cited in the reference, I herewith send my
 report in the prescribed format in respect of Virudhunagar District as per below. 2019 - Model Code of Conduct - Directions of the
http://www.judis.nic.in Honourable High Court, Chennai in W.P.No.17768 of 2016 - Action 78 taken report called for - Sending of - Regarding. Ref: email/Letter No.5261/Elc.VIII/2019-1, dated 23.03.2019 of
 the Chief Electoral Officer & Secretary to Government,
 Public (Elections.VII) Dept., Chennai-9. I invite kind attention to the reference cited. With reference to the orders of the Honourable Madras High Court in
 W.P.No.17768 of 2016 dated 08.03.2019 and the instructions of the Chief
 Electoral Officer, Chennai to furnish the status report on flag poles in State
 Highways, National Highways (including NHAI), Local Bodies, I am herewith
 furnishing the status of flag poles in respect of Salem District in the prescribed
 format for kind perusal. R.o.c.No.L3/9668/2019 dated: 24.03.2019
 Sir,

 Sub: Tirunelveli District - Elections - General Elections to Lok
 Sabha 2019 - MCC - W.P.No.17768 of 2016 - Flag Poles -
 Action taken report - Sent - Regarding. Ref: CEO & Secretary to Govt., Public (Elections) Department
 letter No.5261/Elec.VII/2019-1 dated 23.03.2019. Sub: Elections – Thoothukudi District – General Elections to
 Lok Sabha – 2019 – MCC – W.P.No.17768 of 2016 –
 Action taken report sent- Regarding

 Ref: 1) Chief Electoral Officer and Secretary to Government
 letter No.5261.2019-1, Public (Elections-VIII)
 department,dated 23.03.2019 2) Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi district letter
 C.No.97/Ls/ELE/TUT/2019, dated 24.03.2019.
 Kind attention is solicited to the references cited.
 I have furnished the status report on flag poles in State Highways, National
 Highways (including NHAI) local bodies regarding General elections to Lok Sabha –
 2019 in the following format in respect of Thoothukudi district. Sub: Elections-General Elections to Lok Sabha, 2019
 Tiruppur District-Model code of conduct-case
 filed in the Hon'ble High Court of Madras in
 W.P.No.17768 of 2016- Status Report on removal
 of flag poles in State and National Highways and
 Local Bodies – Action taken report submitted- Regarding

 Ref: The Chief Electoral Officer and Secretary to Government
 Public (Elections – VIII) Department, Secretariat,
 Chennai-9 email/Letter No.5261/Elec.VIII/2019-1,
 dated 23.03.2019

 I invite kind attention to the reference cited above

 As called for in the reference cited I hereby furnish the status report on
 flag poles in State Highways, National Highways and Local Bodies, in the format
 given below: Number of flag poles Steps taken for removal
 With permission Without permission
 0 1949 All flag poles are already removed

 for District Election Officer/
 District Collector,
 Theni District

 Udhagamandalam District: In this regard, I submit herewith the status report on removal of flag poles
 in State highways, National Highways (including NHAI) and local bodies in the
 prescribed format in respect of Karur District.
 Encl: As above
 Karur District – Removal of flag poles – format
 Sl.No Name of the Number of flag poles Number of flag Steps taken for
 department poles removed removal

 with without In compliance
 permission permission of ECI
 instructions
 1 AD panchayat karur 0 849 849
 on MCC for
 2 Karur Municipality 0 109 109 the General
 Elections to
 3 Kulithalai Municipality 0 15 15 Loksabha
 4 Ad Town Panchayat 0 190 190 2019 all the
 Dindigul flag poles
 have been
 5 DE Highways Karur 0 0 0 removed 6 NHAI Karur 0 47 47 Total 0 1210 1210

 Kanyakumari District: MCC- W.P.No.17768 of 2016 – Action taken report
 called for – sending report – regarding

 Ref: Government letter No.5261/Elec.VIII/2019-1
 Public (Elections-VIII) Dept, Dated 23.03.2019

 I invite kind attention to the reference cited and furnish the status report
 on the removal of flag poles in respect of Kanniyakumari District in the
 prescribed format hereinafter. 0 3708 1. Orders were issued to all the Municipal
 Commissioner, Executive officers and block
 development officers (Block Panchayat and Village
 Panchayat) to remove all flag poles erected on the
 road margin, especially on the platform and arches
 put across the roads without prior permission/license
http://www.judis.nic.in as contemplated under the provisions in coordination 85 Number of flag poles Steps taken for removal
 with the respective Police Authorities. 2. For the general awareness of the public and all
 political parties/representatives, a detailed press
 release was issued and circulated in all the major
 vernacular dailies on 21.03.2019 3. The entire process of removal of flag poles was
 actively monitored by the District Administration to
 avoid fresh installation of flag poles in future. Further it is submitted that out of the 3708 flag poles identified a number
 of 3708 were removed. The details are as follows: As per the instructions of the Government, the status report on flag poles
 in state Highways, National Highways (including NHAI),local bodies is enclosed
 herewith in the prescribed format in respect of Tiruchirappalli District. yours faithfully,
 District Election Officer &
 District Collector
 Tiruchirappalli

 R.C.No.G2/1498/2018 O/o District Election Officer
 Date:24.03.2019 and District Collector
 Tiruchirappalli

 Format
 Number of flag poles Steps taken for removal
 With permission without permission
 0 2564 All the 2564 flag poles have been removed.
 Sivaganga District: I am enclosing here with the details on the subject. Details of removal of flag poles in public places in rural areas

 Number of flag poles Steps taken for removal

 With permission without permission
 0 1745 Already removed

 District Collector,
 Dharmapuri 6. He further added that in Kanyakumari District, out of 3708 poles
 erected without permission, 3706 poles have been removed and two poles are
 yet to be removed. In Tuticorin District, inasmuch there is a court order, three
 poles are not removed. The above reports have been submitted by the
 respective District Collectors, to the Chief Electoral Officer and Secretary to
 the Government, Public (Elections) Department, Secretariat, Chennai. 7. By inviting the attention of this court to the compilation of the
 Collectors' Report submitted by Mr.Niranjan Rajagopalan, learned counsel for
 the Election Commission of India, Mr.E.Manoharan, learned Additional
 Government Pleader submitted that though the tabular heading of the tabular
 column indicates the details of removal of flag poles only in public places in
 Rural
http://www.judis.nic.in areas, in reality, flag poles without permission erected on 90 urban/town/rural/municipalities/panchayats/villages have also been removed.
 To illustrate, he drew the attention of this Court to a report submitted by the
 District Election Officer and District Collector, Ramanathapuram in
 Roc.D2/49450/2018 dated 24.3.2019 addressed to the Chief Electoral Officer
 and Secretary to the Government, Public (Elections VIII) Department,
 Secretariat, Chennai - 600 009. Proforma dated 24.3.2019 of District Election
 Officer and District Collector, Ramanathapuram, at page 6, is reproduced
 hereunder: (2) The Highway Administration or the officer authorised under sub-
 section (1) may, on an application made by a person in this behalf and having
 regard to the safety and convenience of traffic, grant permission to such
 person— (i) to place a movable structure on the Highway in front of any building
 owned by him or to make a movable structure on support of such building and
 over the Highway, or (ii) to put up a temporary lawning or tent or other similar construction
 or a temporary stall or scaffolding on the Highway, or (iii) to deposit or cause to be deposited, building materials, goods, for
 sale or other articles on any Highway, or (iv) to make a temporary excavation for carrying out any repairs or
 improvements to adjoining buildings,
 and such permission shall be granted subject to the conditions and on payment
 of the rent and other charges by issuing permit in the form as may be
 prescribed: 26. Removal of unauthorised occupation.—(1) Where the Highway
 Administration or the officer authorised by such Administration in this behalf is
 of the opinion that it is necessary in the interest of traffic safety or
 convenience to cancel any permit issued under sub-section (2) of section 24 , it
 may, after recording the reasons in writing for doing so, cancel such permit
 and, thereupon, the person to whom the permission was granted shall, within
 the period specified by an order made by the Highway Administration or such
 officer restore the portion of the Highway specified in the permit in such
 condition as it was immediately before the issuing of such permit and deliver
 the possession of such portion to the Highway Administration and in case such
 person fails to deliver such possession within such period, he shall be deemed
 to be in unauthorised occupation of highway land for the purposes of this
 section and section 27 . (2) When, as a result of the periodical inspection of highway land or
 otherwise, the Highway Administration or the officer authorised by such
 Administration in this behalf is satisfied that any unauthorised occupation has
 taken place on highway land, the Highway Administration or the officer so
 authorised shall serve a notice in a prescribed form on the person causing or
 responsible for such unauthorised occupation requiring him to remove such
 unauthorised occupation and to restore such highway land in its original

http://www.judis.nic.in
 condition as before the unauthorised occupation within the period specified in 96 the notice. (3) The notice under sub-section (2) shall specify therein the highway
 land in respect of which such notice is issued, the period within which the
 unauthorised occupation on such land is required to be removed, the place and
 time of hearing any representation, if any, which the person to whom the
 notice is addressed may make within the time specified in the notice and that
 failure to comply with such notice shall render the person specified in the
 notice liable to penalty, and summary eviction from the highway land in
 respect of which such notice is issued, under sub-section (6). (4) The service of the notice under sub-section (2) shall be made by
 delivering a copy thereof to the person to whom such notice is addressed or to
 his agent or other person on his behalf or by registered post addressed to the
 person to whom such notice is addressed and an acknowledgment purporting to
 be signed by such person or his agent or other person on his behalf or an
 endorsement by a postal employee that such person or his agent or such other
 person on his behalf has refused to take delivery may be deemed to be prima
 facie proof of service. (5) Where the service of the notice is not made in the manner provided
 under sub-section (4), the contents of the notice shall be advertised in a local
 newspaper for the knowledge of the person to whom the notice is addressed
 and such advertisement shall be deemed to be the service of such notice on
 such person. (6) Where the service of notice under sub-section (2) has been made
 under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) and the unauthorised occupation on the
 highway land in respect of which such notice is served has not been removed
 within the time specified in the notice for such purpose and no reasonable
 cause has been shown before the Highway Administration or the officer
 authorised by such Administration in this behalf for not so removing
 unauthorised occupation, the Highway Administration or such officer as the
 case may be, shall cause such unauthorised occupation to be removed at the
 expenses of the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may
 be, and impose penalty on the person to whom the notice is addressed which
 shall be five hundred rupees per square metre of the land so unauthorisedly
 occupied and where the penalty so imposed is less than the cost of such land,

http://www.judis.nic.in
 the penalty may be extended equal to such cost. (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the Highway
 Administration or the officer authorised by such Administration in this behalf
 shall have power without issuing any notice under this section to remove the
 unauthorised occupation on the highway land, if such unauthorised occupation
 is in the nature of— (a) exposing any goods or article— (i) in open air; or (ii) through temporary stall, kiosk, booth or any other shop of
 temporary nature, (b) construction or erection, whether temporary or permanent, or (c) trespass or other unauthorised occupation which can be removed
 easily without use of any machine or other device,

 and in removing such occupation, the Highway Administration or such officer
 may take assistance of the police, if necessary, to remove such occupation by
 use of the reasonable force necessary for such removal. (8) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, if the Highway
 Administration or the officer authorised by such Administration in this behalf is
 of the opinion that any unauthorised occupation on the highway land is of such
 a nature that the immediate removal of which is necessary in the interest of— (a) the safety of traffic on the Highway; or (b) the safety of any structure forming part of the Highway,
 and no notice can be served on the person responsible for such unauthorised
 occupation under this section without undue delay owing to his absence or for
 any other reason, the Highway Administration or the officer authorised by such
 Administration may make such construction including alteration of any
 construction as may be feasible at the prescribed cost necessary for the safety
 referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) or have such unauthorised occupation
 removed in the manner specified in sub-section (7). (9) The Highway Administration or an officer authorised by such
 Administration in this behalf shall, for the purposes of this section or section
 27, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil
 Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect of the following
 matters, namely:—

http://www.judis.nic.in (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and 98 examining him on oath; (b) requiring the discovery and production of documents; (c) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses; and (d) any other matter which may be prescribed,
 and any proceeding before such Administration or officer shall be deemed to be
 a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the
 purpose of section 196 , of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the
 Administration or the officer shall be deemed to be a civil court for the
 purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1973 (2 of 1974). 27. Recovery of cost of removal of unauthorised occupation and fine
 imposed.—(1) Where a Highway Administration or the officer authorised by
 such Administration in this behalf has removed any unauthorised occupation or
 made any construction including alteration of construction in respect of any
 unauthorised occupation or repaired any damage under sub-section (2) of section 36 , the expenditure incurred in such removal or repair together with
 fifteen per cent. of additional charges or any fine imposed under this Act shall
 be recoverable in the manner hereinafter provided in this section. (2) The Highway Administration or the officer authorised in this behalf
 by such Administration shall serve a copy of the bill in the prescribed form
 indicating therein the expenditure, additional charges or fine recoverable
 under sub-section (1) on the person from whom such expenditure, additional
 charges or fine is recoverable and the provisions of section 26 relating to the
 service of notice shall apply for the service of copy of the bill under this sub-
 section as if for the word “notice” the word “bill” has been substituted in that
 section. (3) A copy of the bill referred to in sub-section (2) shall be
 accompanied with a certificate issued by the Highway Administration or the
 officer authorised by such Administration in this behalf and the amount
 indicated in the bill shall be the conclusive proof that such amount is the
 expenditure actually incurred for all or any of the purposes referred to in sub-
 section (1) as indicated in the bill. (4) Where a Highway Administration or the officer authorised in this
 behalf by such Administration has removed any unauthorised occupation or

http://www.judis.nic.in
 made any construction including alteration of construction in respect of any 99 unauthorised occupation or repaired any damage under sub-section (2) of section 36 , the material, if any, recovered as a result of such removal,
 construction, alteration or repair shall be retained in possession of the
 Highway Administration or such officer till the payment of the bill in respect
 thereof served under sub-section (2) and on payment of such bill such material
 shall be returned to the person entitled for the material, but in case of the
 failure of such payment within the time specified for the payment in the bill,
 the material may be sold by auction by the Highway Administration or such
 officer and after deduction of the amount payable under the bill from the
 proceeds of the auction, the balance, if any, shall be returned to the person
 entitled therefor. (5) In case where the proceeds of the auction under sub-section (4) is
 less than the amount recoverable under the bill referred to in that sub-section,
 the difference between such proceeds and the amount so recoverable or where
 no such auction has been made, the amount recoverable under the bill shall, in
 case of failure of the payment within the time specified in the bill, be
 recoverable as the arrears of land revenue. 16. Learned counsel for National Highways, He also brought to the
 notice of this court that Section 39 of the said Act, deals with for penalty for
 the unauthorised occupation of Highway land. The said section reads thus: 17. In addition to the above, Mr.Richardson Wilson, learned counsel for 100 National Highways Authority of India also brought to the notice of this court a
 decision of Hon'ble First Bench of this court in W.P. No.31084 of 2017 dated
 30.11.2017, wherein the Hon'ble First Bench at paragraph Nos.14 and 17
 observed as under: 18. Learned counsel for the National Highways Authority of India,
 further submitted that no permission has been granted by the National Highways
 Authority of India to any person or authority under Section 24(2) of the Control
 of National Highways (Land and Traffic) Act, 2002. Submission is placed on
 record. 19. From the submission of the learned counsel for the National
 Highways Authority of India, it is abundantly clear that no permission has been
 granted by the competent authority, to erect a flag pole on National Highway.
 Provisions make it clear that such erection of poles is unauthorised, and
 whenever the competent authority seeks for the assistance of the police for
 removal of such unauthorised flag poles on National Highways, police is bound to

http://www.judis.nic.in
 render assistance and remove the same, even by using reasonable force. Hence, 101 if any request is made by a competent authority from National Highways, the
 concerned Superintendents of Police, Inspectors of Police, within whose
 jurisdiction unauthorised flag poles, have been erected, are directed to remove
 the same and report to the competent authority, so as to facilitate National
 Highways to submit a report, as directed by this court. 20. Notwithstanding the request if any to be made by the National
 Highways Authority of India, we reiterate that the District
 Administration/District Police should remove all unauthorised flag poles. Cross
 verification of the reports, can be done by State, as well as the Election
 Commission. 21. Insofar as Chennai District is concerned, no report has been filed as
 to the number of flag poles erected without permission and removed. However,
 on oral instructions, learned Additional Government Pleader, submitted that the
 number of poles would be approximately 5000 and the authorities concerned,
 have started removing. Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation and
 Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai, authorities who are bound to act as
 per the Code of Conduct, are directed to act swiftly and report to the District
 Election Officer/District Collectors. 22. By 1.4.2019, all the District Election Officers and District Collectors
 and others are directed to submit reports on the removal of unauthorised flag
 poles erected. Secretary to the Government, Department of Rural Development
 and Panchayat Raj Department, Secretary to Government, Municipal
 Administration, Regional Managers, Officers of National Highways Authority of
 India, are directed to submit further reports, on the removal of unauthorised
 flag poles, with supporting materials. 23. Post the matter on 1.4.2019." 36. Prayer to register a case against the head of a political party

 who installs Hoardings, Flex Boards, Flag Poles, cannot be granted. Case

 cannot be registered against a political party, but if there is a violation of
http://www.judis.nic.in 102 model Code of Conduct by an individual, action can be taken. 37. Section 171B of the Indian Penal Code 1860, deals with Bribery,

 is extracted hereunder:- commits the offence of bribery: Provided that a declaration of public
 policy or a promise of public action shall not be an offence under this
 section. (2) A person who offers, or agrees to give, or offers or attempts
 to procure, a gratification shall be deemed to give a gratification. (3) A person who obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to
 obtain a gratification shall be deemed to accept a gratification, and a
 person who accepts a gratification as a motive for doing what he does
 not intend to do, or as a reward for doing what he has not done, shall be
 deemed to have accepted the gratification as a reward." 38. As rightly contended by Mr.Niranjan Rajagopalan, learned

 counsel for Election Commission of India, there are sufficient provisions in Indian Penal Code , for taking action against bribery. • Facility of sending EPIC no to 1950 by SMS

 In addition to all these the following new initiatives have also been
 taken up: 39. On the aspect of disqualification and expenditure, let us

 consider the decisions quoted by Mr.M.Purushothaman, learned counsel

 for the petitioner. In W.P.No.18284 of 2016, dated 01.06.2016, a Hon'ble

 Division Bench of this Court, ordered thus:- Consequently, W.M.P.No.15996 of 2016 stands closed.” 40. Another Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court, at paragraph

 No.50 of the order made in W.P.Nos.21149 of 2016 etc batch of writ
http://www.judis.nic.in 108 petitions, observed thus:- 41. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner that

 steps have been taken to introduce Section 58 B in the Representation of

 People Act, 1951 . 42. On the aspect of utilisation of funds, regarding advertisement,

 earlier the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Common Cause vs. Union of India ,

 reported in 2015 (7) SCC 1, has ordered as follows:- Alternatively, programmes/targets for the future as advertised carry the
 impression of being associated with the particular individual(s). Photographs,
 therefore, have the potential of developing the personality cult and the image
 of one or a few individuals, which is a direct antithesis of democratic
 functioning. 28. The legitimate and permissible object of an advertisement, as
 earlier discussed, can always be achieved without publication of the photograph
 of any particular functionary either in the State of a political party. We are,
 therefore, of the view that in departure to the views of the Committee which
 recommended permissibility of publication of the photographs of the President
 and Prime Minister of the country and Governor or Chief Minister of the State
 along with the advertisements, there should be an exception only in the case of
 the President, Prime Minister and Chief Justice of the country who may
 themselves decide the question. Advertisements issued to commemorate the
 anniversaries of acknowledged personalities like the Father of the Nation would
 of course carry the photograph of the departed leader. 29. Insofar as the recommendation with regard to the appointment of
 Ombudsman is concerned, we are of the view that for ironing out the creases
 that are bound to show from time to time in the implementation of the present
 directions and to oversee such implementation the Government should
 constitute a three-member body consisting of persons with unimpeachable
 neutrality and impartiality and who have excelled in their respective fields. We
 could have but we refrain from naming the specific persons and leave the said
 exercise to be performed by the Union Government. 30. Insofar as performance/special audit is concerned, we do not feel

http://www.judis.nic.in
 the necessity of any such special audit inasmuch as the machinery available is 110 adequate to ensure due performance as well as accountability and proper
 utilisation of public money. 31. If government advertisements adhere to the objects and parameters
 mentioned above we do not feel the necessity of imposing a special curb on
 government advertisements on the eve of the elections, as suggested by the
 Committee. 32. In an earlier part of the present order we had indicated the power of
 the purse that government advertisements invariably involve. Needless to say,
 the concepts of fairness and even dispensation to all media/publishing houses
 will have to be maintained by the Government be it at the Centre or the States. 33. We close the matters on the aforesaid note by approving and
 adopting the recommendations of the Committee except what has been
 specifically indicated above with regard to: 34. We also make it clear that the present directions issued under Article 142 of the Constitution cannot be comprehensive and there are several
 aspects of the matter which may have escaped our attention at this stage. In
 this regard, we would like to clarify that it is not the intention of the Court to
 attempt to lay down infallible and all comprehensive directions to cover the

http://www.judis.nic.in
 issue at hand. The gaps, if any, we are confident would be filled up by the 111 executive arm of the Government itself inasmuch as the attainment of
 constitutional goals and values enshrined in Part IV of the Constitution is the
 conjoint responsibility of the three organs of the State i.e. legislative, executive
 and the judiciary, as earlier discussed. 43. Subsequently, the directions issued in the abovesaid case, has

 been modified, as follows:- 2. The review petitions are disposed of in the above terms." 44. If Section 58B is sought to be introduced by the Election

 Commission of India in the Parliament, it is for the Election Commission

 of India, to carry forward and Courts cannot issue any directions to enact

 laws. Submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner, that there is a

 vacuum in law, and directions can be issued, like in Vishaka's case, is not

 accepted. http://www.judis.nic.in 112 45. In Destruction of Public and Private Properties, In Re vs. State

 of Andhra Pradesh and others , reported in (2009) 5 SCC 212, in exercise of

 powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, guidelines have

 been issued, after considering Hon'ble Justice Thomas Committee for

 amendment to Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 . 46. Chief Electoral Officer and Secretary to Government, has sent

 a letter No.1095/Ele.V/2019-4, dated 23.03.2019 to All District Election

 Officers/Returning Officers (w.e), and All Political Parties (w.e.), is

 extracted hereunder:- Ref: 1. From Election Commission of India, New Delhi, Letter
http://www.judis.nic.in No.4/3/2019/SDR, Dated: 26.02 2019. 2. This office Letter No.1095/Ele.V/2019-1, dated: 3. From Election Commission of India, New Delhi,
 Letter No.3/ER/2019/SDR/Vol.II, dated: 19.03.2019
 *****

 I am directed to invite your kind attention to the references cited
 (copy enclosed), wherein, in the reference 3rd cited, the Election
 Commission of India has forwarded a copy of the Order dated 11th
 March, 2019 passed by the Hon'ble Kerala High Court in WP(C) No.7193 of
 2019 ( B.S. Syamkumar Vs. State of Kerala & Others ), In the Order dated
 11th March, 2019, the Hon'ble High Court has taken note of the
 Commission direction in the letter No.4/3/2019/SDR, dated: 26.02.2019
 (copy enclosed) regarding making our election eco-friendly and passed
 the following Order:- Your attention is also drawn to Para 3 of Commission’s
 instructions No.509/24l/ECI/LHT/FUNC/JUD/RCC/2011 dated 20th April,
 2018, which specifies that

 “The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and the Plastic Waste
 Management Pules, 2016, and other applicable laws regard are hereby
 adopted for disposal of the campaign material by the local municipal
 authority and the cost for the same shall be recovered from the
 candidates or political parties, as the case may be, accordance with the
 polluter pays principle." http://www.judis.nic.in Accordingly, the Commission reiterates that all political parties 117 should take adequate steps and measures to not use single-use plastic as
 campaign materials (posters, banners etc.,) during the elections in the
 interest o f human health and environment. Yours faithfully

 (N.T.BHUTIA)

 SECRETARY 49. Proceedings of Mr.C.K.Mishra, Secretary, Government of

 India, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, dated

 17.01.2019, sent Chief Secretaries (All States / UTs), is extracted

 hereunder:- 51. In W.P.No.11094 of 2014, dated 17.04.2014, this Court has

 ordered thus:- Accordingly, the writ petition is disposed of. No costs." 52. As rightly pointed out, there are provisions in the Motor

 Vehicles Act, 1988 , and the rules framed thereunder, regarding use of

 vehicles. Permits are issued to carry people, by the transport authorities,

 subject to satisfy the provisions. 53. In the light of the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and

 the rules framed thereunder, order made in W.P.No.11094 of 2014, dated

 17.04.2014, Election Commission of India, and authorities who are bound

 to adhere to the model code of conduct can take appropriate action, if

 there is any violation of the Motor Vehicles Act and the rules framed

 thereunder and Model Code of Conduct, and any other directions issued in

 this regard. Thus, the interim order made in present writ petition, is

 accordingly modified. http://www.judis.nic.in 120 54. Hence, instant writ petition is dismissed. No Costs. Consequently, the connected writ miscellaneous petition is closed. (S.M.K., J.) (S.P., J.)
 26.03.2019
 Index: Yes
 Internet: Yes
 skm/dm

 Note: http://www.judis.nic.in 122 S. MANIKUMAR, J. AND
 SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. skm/dm W.P.(MD).No.6062 of 2019 and
 W.M.P.(MD).Nos.4836 and 4837 of 2019

 26.03.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in