The Delhi High Court recently decided to uphold a government order to block Briar, an open-source messaging application, in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir for national security reasons. According to the government, the order issued on April 26, 2023 sought to block 14 applications, allegedly used by terrorists and their supporters. However, Briar’s legal representatives told MediaNama that the app was used by locals and journalists in their daily activities. Another expert also pointed out how the judgement contradicts an earlier high court ruling that mandated the government to share a copy of the ban order to the aggrieved user.

Justice Subramonium Prasad on July 2, 2024 heard a case filed by Sublime Software Inc., which owns the blocked app, ‘Briar.’ The company stated that the Indian government had not followed due procedure of informing the company before enforcing the blocking order and demanded that the government revoke the order. The government responded that they blocked the app for national security reasons and that Rule 16 of the Blocking Orders exempted the sharing of the order. It also claimed that there was no way to contact Briar since the company had no representatives in India.

Following this, Prasad gave the verdict, “This Court can take judicial notice of the fact that decisions taken at the highest level and for the benefit of the security & sovereignty of the country can be kept confidential… The application of the Petitioner has been blocked only in the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the same can be used in all other parts of the country. In view of the above, this Court is not inclined to entertain the present Writ Petition.” According to Briar’s legal representative and Founder of SFLC.in Mishi Choudhary, the company will be filing an appeal before a division bench.

German open access forum Verfassungsblog after learning about the verdict flagged the judgement as a “troubling trend of legal exceptionalism in Kashmir.” It stated that the decision “starkly contrasts” an earlier Delhi High Court order in the Tanul Thakur v. Union of India case that challenged website blocking. During this hearing, the former Chief Justice mandated the government to provide a copy of the ban order and grant a hearing to the petitioner. The court asked the government to look for a suitable disclaimer (a less restrictive measure) and thus consider unblocking of Thakur’s account, on July 20, 2023.

“These orders are progressive, marking the first time a court required an aggrieved party to be provided with the blocking order and meaningfully examined the merits of the order itself (to an extent). However, in the Sublime Software case, Justice Prasad appears to have departed from this progressive stance, adopting a markedly different approach when dealing with matters related to Kashmir,” said Verfassungsblog, adding that this exceptionalism temporarily suspends people’s rights and fundamentally restructures the rule of law.

When asked about the opposing orders by the court, Choudhary told MediaNama, “The problem happens here. Each bench thinks on its own. Sometimes we get an order to say, provide [the order], the other time we get an order saying don’t provide it… [There is] no uniformity, no understanding of what technology means, how open-source community internet works, which is not a centralized system, it’s a distributed system. So that is the problem we have today in our courts. What we need is to get rid of Rule 16. The government has to change the rules to say, anytime there is a blocking, here is the order.”

Internet Freedom Foundation’s Associate Litigation Counsel Gayatri Malhotra while speaking to Medianama pointed out that the court failed to consider the Shreya Singhal vs Union of India Supreme Court judgement. The judgement laid special emphasis to Rule 8 of the blocking rules that required the designated officer to make reasonable efforts to figure out, identify the originator of the blocked content.

“This is very straightforward in this case, for instance. Sublime Software is the originator. Google Play Store or Apple Play Store would most definitely have their details. It’s very easy for the government to figure out how to approach them. [Yet] the government gives a very weird reason [for not sending the notice to the originator]. They say, they don’t have an authorized representative [in India]. But that requirement is not found in either the blocking rules or Section 69,” said Malhotra.

National security does not dispense the need for a notice

The Delhi High Court referred to the Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (P) Ltd. v. Union of India (2014) Supreme Court verdict that allowed the suspension of principles of natural justice on national security grounds.

What are the principles natural justice? It refers to the right of an individual to a fair hearing without bias. In the Sublime case, these principles are particularly important since they highlight the need for the entity to receive a copy of the blocking order in order to challenge the same. The principles are crucial to the Indian legal system, although not explicitly mentioned in the constitution.

Verfassungsblog argued that the court should also have considered the Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited v. Union of India (2022) judgement of the apex court that sets a higher threshold for the suspension of natural justice principles. The Court at the time held that “mere involvement of issues concerning national security would not preclude the state’s duty to act fairly.” Thus, Verfassungsblog argued that the government must prove that the suspension of natural justice principles meets the principle of proportionality.

According to Malhotra, principles of natural justice can be done away with when there’s genuine national security concerns and that the departure from natural justice is justified. However, in the Sublime case, Malhotra argued that the court has not undertaken a proportionality analysis for the government’s claim of confidentiality.

“National security and confidentiality are legitimate state goals which are served by national disclosure. But here, the Sublime [case] is adopting a hands-off approach when it comes to national security. It is merely deferring to the executive. Now, here we see that A) the state did not place any material on record to show that there were, in fact, legitimate national security concerns involved. B) the Court does not take an assessment of how a reasonable person would react when this material is placed on record. Secondly, the court does not go into the balancing prongs or expose any other alternatives which are available,” said Malhotra.

Court must engage with the merits of the petition: Verfassungsblog claimed the Delhi High Court did not engage with the merits of the petitioner’s arguments before accepting the government’s assertions.

“The order lacks any indication that the Court reviewed the blocking order or requested evidence from the state to establish a prima facie connection between the respondent’s claims and the grounds specified under Section 69A. Hence, the Court’s reasoning relies heavily on speculative national security concerns, granting the state wholesale deference. This approach is antithetical to the judiciary’s role in scrutinizing such claims, even in matters of national security (one may claim especially in such cases),” said Verfassungsblog.

Are blocking orders effective? When asked whether blocking apps adequately addresses security concerns, Ritesh Bhatia, a cybersecurity expert, expressed his doubts that blocking an application helps from a security standpoint. He pointed out that peer-to-peer apps are not difficult to replicate and people can choose alternative apps. He gave the example of loan apps where the government may routinely identify and block flagged apps but new apps keep cropping up.

Meanwhile, Malhotra said that blocking apps, may be due to a legitimate national security concern but it still requires due process. “As long as the proportionality test is followed and national security concerns are adequately balanced, I don’t see any problem with the app blocking, provided the procedure safeguards are followed and the proportionality test is applied,” she said.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event