DD Kisan, a government TV channel dedicated to farmers, has launched two AI anchors, AI Krish, and AI Bhoomi, informed a PIB press release on the 24th of May.

This development comes as the channel celebrates its 9th anniversary. “These AI anchors will provide every necessary information about agricultural research happening in the country and global level, trends in agriculture mandees, changes in the weather or any other information of government schemes,” states PIB. The AI anchors can also communicate in fifty Indian languages and will broadcast in all the Indian states.

DD Kisan was launched on 26 May 2015, with the objective of keeping farmers informed about changes in the weather, and global and local markets so that they could make appropriate plans in advance and make the right decisions on time.

Doordarshan Kisan is set to achieve another milestone. The channel is introducing a new look and style from 26 May 2024. The most exciting feature of this revamp is the introduction of two AI anchors named AI Krish and AI Bhoomi. @MIB_India @MIB_Hindi @AgriGoI @PIBAgriculture pic.twitter.com/6xOhyHqEfe

A post on X (formerly Twitter) from the news channel states that the channel will be “introducing a new look and style” from 26 May, with the AI anchors being the “most exciting feature”.

Medianama had previously addressed the possibility of AI mimicking human speech and behavior and pointed out that automated content, like AI anchors, are predictable and lack personality, making them a poor replacement for humans.

On a related note, the use of AI to mimic human speech has proliferated in recent years and has opened new frontiers in political communication. In February this year, Pakistani voters were greeted by an AI-generated speech from their former Prime Minister Imran Khan, who had been imprisoned the previous year and was campaigning from inside his jail cell.

* Note:- This copy was edited at 15:13 on May 27, 2024, based on editorial inputs.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event