SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Okay so I finally got scammed (Not by a lot but still want to get my money back, so please help)
DATE: 2024-12-18
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hh7zcp/okay_so_i_finally_got_scammed_not_by_a_lot_but/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR; I paid this guy on FB marketplace through UPI and have no other details about him, other than his name from UPI transaction and his UPI ID. Any help on whaat could be done further will be very thoughtful.

So, as usual i was browsing on Facebook Marketplace searching for Hotwheels, of all, yes you heard that right (r/Hotwheelsindia). And in casual attempt at messaging all the people selling these diecasts for less, i messaged this one guy, who was selling good pieces, and he responded immediately to my initial message. I asked him the prices based on what he was offering and he quoted high at first, but then I lowballes him hard and he somehow suddenly accepted it saying if my budget is less, he can accomodate (I should've stopped here, already smelt something was off, but tried to be cautious and move ahead).

So at this point this guy texted like a normal hotwheels reseller. We talked for a while and discussed what cars i wanted and made a deal for 900 including shipping. I told him his location shows Bangalore but he said he couldn't change his location and he is from Kerala (Strike 2, which I chose to ignore). I thought he might not be lying and he said he'll help me get it shipped too. After this, i was excited and messaged him with a text to take the chat over WhatsApp and he asked me my number and I gave it to him. (Strike 3 &amp; 4, i did not take his number and also noticed that he didn't text me on WhatsApp, and I again ignored this out of excitement I guess).

So after that, the conversation took a halt and he messages me a few hours later asking me when I'll buy from him, i again just let him know we can do that as soon as possible and then he was getting into payment. So usually resellers ask for the complete payment before and I knew there were scams going around and tried to be cautious as well by asking him repeatedly to send picture once he has packed or shipped and when he will ship. He kept giving reasonable excuses saying it is with his friend and he needs to pay for it first then he can get it and he somehow convinced me. So we finally agreed on 50-50 that i pay 50 percent first and then 50 percent later after I get the shipment.

Now i was again, before elaying asking him to send pictures then I'll pay. Even asked him that I'll pay a very small token amount, then pay remaining of 50% to him, and then final remaining 50% after i receive the product. That's when he firstly disagreed with any of my statement and said he needs the money first and then he can send pictures once he buys it himself. (So many strikes here, I lost count).

Now with the text 'im trusting you bro' I sent him the money and then he casually replied with recieved and he's on the way and then, that's when I texted him the last.

His profiles gone Ad's gone, FB isn't redirecting to his profile or anything now just have a chat history left on FB. I was also thinking of checking the profile on FB marketplace but forgot to do it and paid the amount. I guess i ignored so many red signs just in the fear that he will drop the great deal he had put up for me.

The only other thing now I have left is his Name, Transaction details and his UPI ID.

Now out of all the ignoranant and dumb things i did, i know that only smart thing I did was to split it 50-50, and now I've not lost a lot - but any other suggestions to be smarter in such cases is also welcome.

I can share the screenshots of texts but I've pretty much summarised it all above. Now i tried a few options from cred support but they say they can't do much amd bank has to check it further. It also suggested UPI Dispute Redressal Mechanism, where I did submit a complaint, but haven't received anything, a number or a mail or sms anything, just a successful message, so I'm skeptical.

So, i would really appreciate if someone can guide me on what options do I have left 🥲.