V. KAMESWAR RAO, J

 I.As. 9626/2020 & 9772/2020
 These applications have been filed by the petitioner
 seeking permission to file additional documents on record. The same are allowed and the additional documents are
 taken on record. Applications are disposed of. O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 („Act of
 1996‟, for short) with the following prayers: b) Restrain the Respondent No. 1 from directly or
 indirectly, interfering with the management and /or
 administration, and from participating in the
 affairs of the firm L&L Partners, New Delhi; c) Restrain the Respondent No. 1 from holding
 himself out as, or representing himself to be a
 partner in L&L Partners, New Delhi; d) Direct the Respondent No. 1 to forthwith hand
 over to the Petitioner all assets and properties of
 the firm L&L Partners, New Delhi, currently within
 his possession, including ownership and control
 over the website www.luthra.com; e) Restrain the Respondent No. 1 from accessing or
 using any of the assets of the firm, including but
 not limited to restraining the Respondent No. 1
 from withdrawing any monies, or authorizing any
 payments out of, or otherwise operating bank
 accounts held by the firm, without the consent of
 the Petitioner; f) Restrain the Respondents from interdicting the
 Petitioner's rights to conduct and manage the
 affairs of the firms L&L Partners, New Delhi, L&L
 Partners, Mumbai and L&L Partners Litigation,
 New Delhi; g) Direct the Respondents to forthwith restore the
 Petitioner's access to his firm email id - [email protected] and the Petitioner's name as O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 2/148 being part of the management on the websites of
 the firms, L&L Partners, New Delhi, L&L
 Partners, Mumbai and L&L Partners, Litigation,
 and further restrain the Respondents from directly
 or indirectly, preventing or otherwise restricting
 the Petitioner's access to and use of the Delhi
 Firm's IT infrastructure such as personal laptop,
 desktop, email with the domain [email protected] ,
 servers, database, software subscriptions; h) Direct the Respondents to forthwith restore the
 access of all employees and staff to, and enable use
 of the IT infrastructure such as personal laptop,
 desktop, emails with the domain [email protected] , servers, database, software
 subscriptions, whose access has been drastically
 blocked since 13.10.2020; i) Direct the Respondent No. 1 to remove the
 'bouncers' stationed by him at the office of the
 Delhi Firm at the 1st and 9th Floors, Ashoka
 Estate, 9, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi - 110001
 and further restrain the said Respondents from
 restricting any manner the Petitioner's ingress and
 egress to the office space at 1stand 9th Floors,
 Ashoka Estate, 9, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi- 110001; j) Restrain the Respondents from causing any
 disturbance or damage to the office cabin of the
 Petitioner; k) Direct the Respondent No. 1 to cease and desist
 from entering the offices at 1st and 9th Floors,
 Ashoka Estate, 9, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi - 110001, soliciting or contacting the employees,
 retainers, or clients of L&L Partners, New Delhi; 1) Restrain the Respondent No. 1 from making any
 representation to any of the clients or retainers or
 employees of any of the firms, L&L Partners, New
 Delhi, L&L Partners, Mumbai or L&L Partners,
 Litigation, New Delhi, and from making any
 representation, communication, filing, applications
 etc. to any regulatory authorities including the
 Registrar of Firms, or to the media to the effect or O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 3/148 on the basis that the Petitioner's partnership has
 been terminated, or that the Petitioner has ceased
 to be a partner of any of the said firms, or that the
 petitioner is not authorized to represent the said
 firms, and further direct the Respondent No. 1 that
 if any such communication has been made, then to
 forthwith withdraw the same; m) Restrain the Respondent No. 1 from using the
 name "Luthra &Luthra" or "L&L Partners" or any
 variation thereof, for carrying on any business
 competing with the business of L&L Partners, New
 Delhi; n) Grant ex parte ad interim reliefs in terms of the
 above; o) Pass such order and any further other order as
 this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the
 facts and circumstances of the present case." 2. The facts, as noted from the petition, are as follows: 2.8.4 After October 31, 2003, but before 12 years from
 the Effective Date under the Deed (i.e., 01.04.1999), if the
 respondent intended to leave the Delhi Corporate Firm
 and retain its name (in other words, exclude the petitioner
 from the Delhi Corporate Firm), the respondent was
 bound to compensate the petitioner for five times the
 amount of the goodwill as computed in accordance with
 the Deed, and all the clients of the Delhi Corporate Firm
 were to be retained by the petitioner. 2.8.5 That the Deed categorically and unequivocally
 provides that after the expiry of 12 years from the
 Effective Date, i.e., from March 31, 2011 onwards, the
 respondent may only leave the Delhi Corporate Firm, but
 shall have no right to retain its name, and that such name
 shall continue to be used by the remaining partners of the
 Delhi Corporate Firm. Also, the clients, assets, employees
 and goodwill were to be retained by the petitioner and that
 after 2011, the respondent has no right to exclude the
 petitioner from the Delhi Corporate Firm in any manner.
 2.8.6 As per the Deed, after 2010 the respondent‟s right
 to render final binding decision was confined to certain
 specific matters stipulated therein. 2.8.7 Even though respondent could appraise the
 performance of the petitioner, as per the Deed, after 2010,
 even if the respondent were to find the petitioner to be
 wanting in any manner, only a token penalty could be
 imposed upon petitioner. 2.8.8 No new partners could be inducted by the
 respondent without the consent of the petitioner
 2.8.9 Upon retirement, withdrawal or death of any of the
 partners or termination of the Deed, the Delhi Corporate
 Firm would subsist and the remaining partners would
 continue to run the Delhi Corporate Firm. 2.8.10 In the event of death or retirement/withdrawal of
 one of the partners from the Delhi Corporate Firm, or
 termination of the Deed, it is expressly stipulated that the
 surviving party shall: (i) continue to be a part of the Delhi
 Corporate Firm and retain all the assets, offices,
 employees, counsel, clients etc., and; (ii) continue to
 retain and use the name of the Delhi Corporate Firm and
 the goodwill attached thereto. 2.9 It is the case of the petitioner that until 2015, the
 petitioner and respondent enjoyed a healthy relationship and
 carried on the business of the Delhi Corporate Firm
 smoothly. And, with the growth of the L&L Firms, the need
 for professionalization became necessary and that the
 petitioner recognized and adopted this vision. The clamour
 for opening up of the equity partnership also increased
 within the organization, especially after several O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 8/148 professionals of impeccable talent and competence, had
 spent several years as a part of it. 2.10 It is stated that sometime in 2009, the petitioner
 and respondent announced that the retainer non-equity
 partners, who had been part of the firm for many years
 would be inducted as partners into the firms (Delhi
 Corporate Firm and Mumbai Corporate Firm). However,
 primarily due to reluctance on the part of the respondent to
 dilute his equity in the partnership no further steps were
 taken to give effect to the same. 2.11 On several occasions, petitioner had requested the
 respondent to take progressive and serious steps towards
 dilution of the equity in favour of senior professionals
 within the Delhi Corporate Firm and the Mumbai Corporate
 Firm. As a step towards professionalization and
 transparency in decision making, petitioner with the
 concurrence of the respondent, set up an Executive
 Committee („EC‟, for short) in September 2012, comprising
 of certain senior members of the Delhi Corporate Firm and
 the Mumbai Corporate Firm. After due deliberation and
 discussion, on July 24, 2019, the guiding principles and
 frame work for decision-making by the EC was agreed to,
 by the members of the EC, including the petitioner and the
 respondent. And, that until recently apart from the parties to
 the present petition, the members of the EC include 4 other
 senior non-equity retainer partners of the Delhi Corporate
 Firm and Mumbai Corporate Firm, who are also members of O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 9/148 the WhatsApp Group named „Executive Committee‟.
 2.12 It is stated by the petitioner that on multiple
 occasions, the petitioner solicited consensus of the
 respondent to induct new partners by diluting the equity,
 however was unsuccessful. This adversely affected the L&L
 Firms as many retainer non-equity partners left the firms for
 having been denied fair compensation. Particularly, from
 July 2019 onwards, petitioner urged the respondent to
 expeditiously deliver upon his commitment with respect to
 dilution of equity, and warned the respondent of the
 imminent danger of several competent and talented
 professionals leaving the Delhi Corporate Firm and the
 Mumbai Corporate Firm, in the event that the respondent
 failed to do so. 2.13 Between July and December 2019, primarily due to
 frustration amongst the senior members of the Delhi
 Corporate Firm and the Mumbai Corporate Firm at the lack
 of opening up of equity, there was a spate of high-profile
 exits. 2.14 Amongst similar communications by petitioner on
 the issue of equity dilution, and in response to the
 respondent requesting the petitioner to communicate his
 thoughts on equity dilution, by way of a message sent on
 December 26, 2019, the petitioner communicated in detail,
 his views on the manner in which equity needs to be diluted
 in favour of senior professionals in the Delhi Corporate Firm
 and the Mumbai Corporate Firm. 2.15 It is stated that as a reaction to the said message the
 respondent responded on the same date itself, denouncing
 the petitioner‟s views and stating that the best way forward
 was to go separate ways and called upon the petitioner to
 think of the most amicable way to achieve a parting. The
 respondent also suggested some high-level steps that would
 normally be taken into consideration when ending a
 partnership. 2.16 Petitioner expressed his agreement to an amicable
 solution on parting ways, which was however deliberately
 misconstrued and misrepresented by the respondent to other
 senior members of the Delhi Corporate Firm and partners of
 the Delhi Litigation Firm, as if the petitioner and the
 respondent had reached an agreement on dissolution of the
 Delhi Corporate Firm. The petitioner strongly denied each
 such suggestion and clearly stated that he was only
 agreeable to amicably parting ways. 2.17 It is stated that on January 06, 2020 respondent
 issued a notice to the petitioner for termination of the Delhi
 Corporate Firm and for dissolving the Mumbai Corporate
 Firm (180-days‟ notice) inter alia stating that "... both the
 partnership deeds, mentioned above, shall now stand
 terminated on the 90th day (for Delhi) and 180th day (for
 Mumbai) ..." 2.18 The petitioner immediately responded objecting to
 the respondent‟s misrepresentation and specifically pointed
 out that he had not consented to dissolution of the Delhi O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 11/148 Corporate Firm, as was sought to be misrepresented by the
 respondent. In his communications between January 06,
 2020 and January 09, 2020, the petitioner also pointed out to
 the respondent, that in terms of the Deed, the respondent
 could not unilaterally terminate the partnership except by
 withdrawing from it and that the petitioner was agreeable to
 the respondent withdrawing from the Delhi Corporate Firm.
 2.19 It is stated by the petitioner that under the Deed,
 respondent may only issue a notice of termination on one or
 more of the specific grounds mentioned under Clause 8.
 Clause 8(a) of the Deed refers to termination on the basis of
 a unanimous agreement between the parties, while Clause
 8(e) provides for termination on the basis of withdrawal/
 retirement from the partnership. The respondent‟s notice to
 terminate being unilateral in nature, and given that none of
 the contingencies in sub-clauses (b) to (d) of Clause 8
 (material breach, bankruptcy, death, mental or physical
 incapacity) had arisen, or referred to, the respondent‟s
 actions and notice of January 06, 2020, was nothing but a
 notice of withdrawal / retirement from the Delhi Corporate
 Firm. 2.20 It is the case of the petitioner that the conduct of
 the respondent was in fact consistent with his intent and
 desire to withdraw from the Delhi Corporate Firm, which
 was evident from the several communications sent by the
 respondent between July 2019 and till recently. It is also
 stated that in an effort to amicably resolve issues in the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 12/148 interest of the L&L Firms, petitioner and members of the EC
 held various discussions and the respondent placed several
 unrealistic proposals for equity dilution, which were not
 accepted by the petitioner or the EC members. Respondent
 kept reiterating his intent to proceed with unilateral
 termination / withdrawal, and to this end, continued to
 negotiate the terms of his exit in his communications with
 the Petitioner and with the EC. In this backdrop, the
 respondent unilaterally „extended‟ his notice to terminate the
 Partnership Deed by communications issued on April 04,
 2020 (by 60 days), May 28, 2020 (by one month), June 30,
 2020 (by 60 days) and finally on August 30, 2020 up to
 October 31, 2020. 2.21 On September 13, 2020, after having extended his
 purported notices up to October 31, 2020, on the Corporate
 Partners (Whatsapp) Group, the respondent made a proposal
 for dilution of 20% of equity and warned of some structural
 „rejig‟ in the Delhi Corporate Firm. The respondent
 unequivocally conveyed that the „time for negotiation is
 over‟, and issued an ultimatum that if the aforesaid proposal
 were not acceptable, then the persons disagreeing are free to
 leave. The respondent gave everyone, including the
 petitioner, a period of one month to take a decision and
 communicated that he would no longer be participating in
 any partner meetings. 2.22 It is the case of the petitioner that in the context of
 the Deed, each of the communications issued by the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 13/148 respondent seeking to unilaterally terminate the partnership
 with the petitioner, or unilaterally extend the deadline of
 termination, constitutes a withdrawal from the partnership,
 as, after 2011, the respondent has no right to oust or exclude
 the petitioner from the Delhi Corporate Firm in any manner.
 2.23 It is also the case the petitioner that even before
 expiry of the one-month period, the respondent, by way of a
 message sent on the Corporate Partners group on October
 04, 2020, represented to the petitioner and retainer non-
 equity partners that he proposes to unilaterally induct new
 partners into the Delhi Corporate Firm. 2.24 It is stated on October 05, 2020, response was
 given by the petitioner pointing out that under the Deed, no
 partner can be inducted without the consent and concurrence
 of the petitioner. The petitioner further stated that the
 proposal of respondent is a farce as the proposal mentions
 no criteria, selection method and percentage of equity
 dilution, among others, and is merely an artifice to induct
 few of his dependents as partners. The petitioner also
 disputed the right of the respondent to unilaterally induct
 partners. The respondent, without disputing the merits,
 disputed the contentions of the petitioner, in a message sent
 on October 06, 2020. On October 10, 2020, the respondent
 informed the petitioner and all retainers in the Delhi
 Corporate Firm that the respondent had inducted two
 individuals Aniket Sen Gupta and Barish Kumar as partners.
 2.25 It is stated by the petitioner that in this light of O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 14/148 intention of the respondent‟s earlier communications and
 given that the respondent was in material breach (falling
 within the meaning Clause 8(b) of the Deed), which
 provided an additional ground for termination by the
 petitioner; and also given that the period for amicable
 resolution in terms of the Deed had long expired, on October
 12, 2020, (before expiry of the period of one month
 stipulated in the respondent‟s communication of September
 13, 2020), the petitioner issued a notice / letter by email to
 the respondent acknowledging and accepting the
 respondent‟s decision to leave and withdraw/retire from the
 Delhi Corporate Firm
 2.26 It is further stated that being the surviving party /
 remaining partner under the Deed and being entitled to
 retain the name, goodwill, clients, assets, employees etc. of
 the Delhi Corporate Firm, the petitioner went on to
 reconstitute the Delhi Corporate Firm and inducted 23
 retainer non-equity partners as equity partners of the Delhi
 Corporate Firm. All 24 persons executed the new
 partnership deed on the same date i.e. October 12, 2020. It is
 also the stated that approximately 25% of the equity in the
 Delhi Corporate Firm has been distributed amongst the
 newly inducted equity partners (as an initial distribution, on
 a token basis) and the remaining 42% of the equity is
 maintained in a pool for the benefit of, and to be distributed
 at a later stage amongst present and future partners of the
 Delhi Firm. It was also agreed in the new deed that further O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 15/148 equity dilution would take place by March 31, 2021, in
 favour of the 23 new partners, based on objective criteria to
 be discussed and agreed between the partners. The new
 partnership deed clearly stipulates that the petitioner‟s
 equity interest shall be 33%, which is his present equity
 interest. 2.27 It is the case of the petitioner that on October 12,
 2020, at 22:34, the respondent sent an email to all retainers
 and employees of the L&L Firms, denying that he had
 retired from the Delhi Corporate Firm. 2.28 Thereafter, purely as a counter-blast, and without
 any foundation, legal right or basis, the respondent sent an
 email to the petitioner on October 13, 2020, purportedly
 terminating the petitioner's partnership in the Delhi
 Corporate Firm with immediate effect. Thereafter, it is
 stated that on October 13, 2020 at around 12:42 P.M,
 respondent sent an email to all employees and retainers of
 the L&L Firms stating that "..... the email/ notice sent
 yesterday is the proverbial last nail in the coffin leaving me
 no option but to terminate Mr. Saraf's partnership, which
 was done earlier this morning. Mr. Saraf is now stripped of
 all authority and standing, and has no authority to instruct
 you or otherwise to act on behalf of the Firm. No one should
 fall into the trap of accepting any non-existent equity, which
 he wants to offer to anyone, and further complicate
 matters." 2.29 It is averred by the petitioner that the said notice by O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 16/148 respondent to petitioner made various false, vague, baseless
 and frivolous allegations each of which were denied by the
 petitioner. Moreover, respondent is stated to justify
 termination on the basis of false allegations of material
 breach on the part of the petitioner purportedly on the basis
 of Clauses 7(A) and 8 of the Deed. The frivolity and lack of
 basis is manifest from the fact that the respondent had never
 alleged breach on the part of the petitioner, including in his
 repeated notices for termination of the partnership.
 2.30 Without prejudice to the petitioner's position that
 the allegations in the notice are false, it is submitted that the
 said notice is further misconceived, as: (i) prior to issuance
 of such notice, the respondent had already withdrawn/
 retired from the partnership; (ii) in any event, none of the
 allegations fall within the meaning of material breach, which
 has been specifically defined in Clause 8(b) of the Deed.
 2.31 It is stated that the petitioner had in fact at around
 10:25 A.M. sent an email on October 13, 2020 addressed to
 the key administrative employees and officials, requesting
 them not to precipitate matters. Petitioner informed all the
 members of the L&L Firms that despite the fact that
 respondent has ceased to be a partner, respondent ought to
 be respected and allowed unhindered access to the firms till
 completion of winding up of the Mumbai Corporate Firm
 and settlement of accounts of the Delhi Corporate Firm with
 respect to respondent‟s entitlements. Petitioner, continuing
 with the exercise of management duties that he had been O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 17/148 conducting for the past two decades, instructed the
 administrative officials to seamlessly discharge their duties,
 and to not take any action at the instance of either the
 petitioner or the respondent, which would be prejudicial to
 the other. 2.32 Whereas, it is stated, despite the fact that the email
 IDs, servers and other IT infrastructure is common to all the
 L&L Firms, and undisputedly, the petitioner continues to be
 a partner in the Mumbai Corporate Firm and the Delhi
 Litigation Firm, the respondent with the aid and connivance
 of the staff terminated and disrupted the access of the
 petitioner to the resources of the firm such as access to
 emails and IT resources, removed the petitioner from the
 firm's website. Respondent has even denied entry of
 petitioner into the firm premises and threatened retainers and
 employees and the new partners to disassociate with the
 petitioner and coerced some employees to go on leave.
 Further, respondent wrote emails to large number of clients
 with which the petitioner has ongoing and concluded works
 that the petitioner is no longer a partner of the firms. It is
 also stated that the respondent has seized the petitioner‟s
 laptop / desktop which was kept in office and is
 unauthorizedly accessing the data and information contained
 therein, in flagrant breach of the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 . The respondent has
 unlawfully taken control of the servers, books, records, data,
 bank accounts to the exclusion of the petitioner. There is O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 18/148 hence a serious risk of misappropriation, data theft and
 manipulation of records at the behest of respondent in
 furtherance of his mala fide motives. Respondent continued
 with such and other irreparably injurious acts and falsehoods
 to the detriment of petitioner's right to carry on legal practice
 and partnership rights. 2.33 It is averred that the respondent inter alia has no
 right or authority to: (i) prevent the petitioner or any of the
 retainers of the Delhi Corporate Firm from lawfully
 accessing the office, or their emails, assets of the Delhi
 Corporate Firm etc., (ii) interfere with the business of the
 Delhi Corporate Firm in any manner, (iii) to instruct the
 employees, salaried partners, lawyers and employees of the
 Delhi Corporate Firm not to deal with the Petitioner, (iv) use
 or retain any of the assets of the Delhi Corporate Firm, or (v) solicit the clients, employees, retainers etc. of the Delhi
 Corporate Firm. The aforesaid position emanates as
 consequences of his withdrawal from the partnership, and
 especially given that the Delhi Corporate Firm has already
 been reconstituted. In addition, and without prejudice, it is
 also averred, the respondent has no right under the Deed, or
 basis to oust the petitioner from the Delhi Corporate Firm
 and therefore, each of the respondent‟s subsequent actions is
 illegal. Further, by blocking access of the petitioner to his
 emails, to the offices, data etc., the respondent is unlawfully
 preventing the petitioner from servicing clients, usurping the
 clients and business of the petitioner, and is preventing the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 19/148 petitioner from lawfully carrying on with the business of the
 Delhi Corporate Firm, despite the fact that under the
 Partnership Deed, the petitioner is entitled to retain the
 name, goodwill, assets, clients and employees of the Delhi
 Corporate Firm. Moreover, the petitioner owes a duty,
 professional and fiduciary, to the clients, some of whom he
 has been advising for more than a decade. As part of his
 professional duties, the petitioner is expected to be available
 to advise and serve his clients at short notice, and the
 aforesaid acts on the part of the respondent would
 irreparably damage and destroy the client relationships built
 by the petitioner painstakingly over the years.
 2.34 Further, the petitioner has been overseeing and
 taking decisions on financial requirements for regular day-
 to-day operations of the said firms, as well as for capital
 outlays, expansion of space, hiring and salaries, increments
 etc. for the Delhi Corporate Firm and the Mumbai Corporate
 Firm with the authority to independently operate the bank
 accounts of the Delhi Corporate Firm and Mumbai
 Corporate Firm. Without prejudice to other contentions, it is
 averred, the actions of the respondent also seek to drastically
 alter the status quo and to wrongfully hold out that the
 respondent is a partner of the Delhi Corporate Firm and
 misrepresent that the petitioner is not a partner of the same.
 2.35 The petitioner has also gone ahead and pointed out
 various material breaches committed by respondent under
 Clause 8B of the Deed. The said breaches as alleged in O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 20/148 short are as follows:-  Unethical demands for payment made by
 respondent from one of the clients, which resulted
 in removal of the L&L Firms from the said client‟s
 approved list.  In reckless disregard of his duties as a partner, the
 respondent conducted firm-wide video conference
 call unilaterally scheduled on September 24, 2020
 with a mala fide motive to disclose the discord
 within the partnership and to discredit and defame
 the petitioner publicly on false grounds even after
 the petitioner requesting the said meeting to be
 cancelled.  Invoices were raised by Luthra proprietorship for
 legal services on clients of Delhi Corporate Firm
 and Mumbai Corporate Firm.  The respondent went ahead and invested in a
 competing business which is an online platform
 that provides legal and compliance solutions.  No objection to the registration of the name „L&L
 Partners‟ in the name of the Delhi Corporate Firm,
 and insisted upon its registration for the benefit of
 the Luthra Proprietorship as well.  The domain name www.luthra.com has been
 wrongfully held by respondent in his personal
 capacity even though the same is the property of
 Delhi Corporate Firm and the same was never O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 21/148 transferred in favour of the Delhi Corporate Firm
 even after repeated requests.  The respondent is in wrongful possession of
 retainership agreement of both Delhi Corporate
 Firm and Mumbai Corporate Firm.  Ousting the petitioner from the partnership and
 depriving him and other partners from carrying on
 the business of Delhi Corporate Firm constitute
 material breach.  The unilateral attempt of the respondent to induct
 partners without petitioner‟s consent.  Respondent‟s unrealistic and grossly insufficient
 equity dilution proposals, while threatening to
 dissolve the Delhi Corporate Firm and making
 unreasonable demands for payment to be made for
 his exit from the Delhi Corporate Firm is in bad
 faith.  The respondent also unreasonably without the
 consent of the petitioner demanded the resignation
 of a Senior Partner of the Delhi Corporate Firm.  Respondent unilaterally vetoed a near unanimous
 decision taken by the then non-equity retainer
 partners of the corporate practice to disassociate
 with the Delhi Litigation Firm.  Respondent malafidely and in bad faith to
 undermine the authority of the petitioner, delayed
 the appraisal process for the year 2019-20 pleading O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 22/148 to delays in promotion and bonuses.  Respondent even requested certain clients serviced
 by the petitioner and some other partners, to
 disassociate with them, which are prejudicial not
 only to the petitioner but also to the firm. 2.36. It is stated that petitioner has a strong prima facie
 case as the petitioner is a partner in all the three partnership
 firms/ L & L Firms. Further, petitioner has a strong prima
 facie case as (i) the respondent has ceased to be a partner in
 Delhi Corporate Firm but despite that has breached and is
 continuing to breach his obligations under the Indian
 Partnership Act, 1932 („ Partnership Act ‟, for short) and the
 Deed (which has an arbitration clause) with the aid and
 connivance of the staff; (ii) under the Partnership Deed, the
 respondent has no right whatsoever to exclude the petitioner
 from the Delhi Corporate Firm, after 2011; (iii) after
 respondent has withdrawn from the Delhi Corporate Firm, the
 respondent had no locus or right to issue the notice of
 termination dated October 13, 2020; and (iv) subsequent
 acts obstructing the Petitioner from carrying on with the
 business of the Delhi Corporate Firm are illegal and without
 authority. Similarly, the balance of convenience lies
 completely in favour of the petitioner and against the
 respondent as the petitioner took a reasonable stance and
 instructed the employees of the Delhi (email dated October
 13, 2020) that matters should not be precipitated at the
 instance of one or the other until matters are resolved. On O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 23/148 the other hand, respondent has left no stone unturned in
 seeking to completely deprive the petitioner of his lawful
 rights and interests in the business. The respondent‟s actions
 also seek to irreversibly damage the reputation of the
 petitioner and is likely lead to significant loss of
 professional standing and goodwill within the profession
 and additionally the Delhi Corporate Firm having been
 reconstituted, the respondent is also depriving the petitioner
 and the partners of the Delhi Corporate Firm from accessing
 the offices, their emails, from carrying on the business of the
 Delhi Firm causing irreparable loss and damage to survival
 of the Delhi Corporate Firm as well as its lawyers and staff
 members, its reputation and its clients. 3. A preliminary reply has been duly filed by the respondent
 to the petition. The stand of respondent as per the reply is as
 follows: 3.1 (iii) The action of impleading respondent Nos. 2-
 7 who are neither signatories to the Deed nor bound by
 the arbitration agreement contained therein, means no
 relief can be claimed against them and the prayers (f), (g)
 and (l) are ex facie not maintainable, making the present
 petition suffer from „multifariousness‟ i.e., misjoinder of
 parties and cause of action. 3.1 (iv) The partners inducted by respondent by
 exercising his power under Clause 7D of the Partnership
 Deed is before the termination of the petitioner (on
 October 13, 2020), who being necessary and proper
 parties to the petition, are not made parties to the petition.
 This, as per respondent makes the petition not
 maintainable for non-joinder of parties. 3.2 On the conduct of the petitioner, it is stated by
 respondent that the same would clearly make the petition O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 25/148 liable to be dismissed and states the following: - Without prejudice, it is stated; the conduct clearly reflects
 the malicious and mala fide conduct of the petitioner in
 ousting the founding and managing partner much before
 the alleged date of retirement. Moreover, the activity
 could not have been achieved within a span of few hours.
 3.2.2 The conduct of the petitioner in disclosing
 confidential information contrary to the interests of the
 Delhi Corporate Firm and the fact that he has been trying
 to create a rift within the firm and the fact that he has
 allegedly, on the same day on which he allegedly
 accepted the alleged retirement of the respondent and
 distributed the respondent‟s equity; all indicate that his
 acts were totally detrimental to the interests of the firm
 and also the principles of partnership enunciated under
 Section of the Partnership Act. 3.2.3 The petitioner has filed materials such as detailed
 Whatsapp conversations between petitioner and
 respondent, various members of the Partners Group of the
 L&L Firms, members of the EC, a transcript of a ZOOM
 call with the firm, lists of clients of the respondent as well
 as of the L&L Firms, in the present proceedings are
 nothing but a breach of the confidentiality policy of the
 L&L Firms and of the privacy of the partners and O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 26/148 associates. 3.2.4 The petitioner has also in open court proceedings
 disclosed details of the Delhi Corporate Firm‟s clients he
 was servicing prior to his termination and in the process
 even disclosed confidential details including price
 sensitive information concerning public listed companies.
 In addition, financial details of the L&L Firms have also
 been divulged which have immediately been picked upon
 and reported by the media. 3.2.5 Even though the petitioner claims that he has been
 terminated and has no access to his emails, he has still
 managed to not only access through his sources the
 emails sent by the respondent (again in confidence) to the
 Firm and the Clients, but chosen to file them before this
 Court. All these communications are once again private
 and confidential. 3.2.6 The respondent had issued the termination letter to
 the petitioner at 10.03 AM on October 13, 2020 and the
 reliance placed by the petitioner on his own email sent to
 staff members of the firm at 10.25 AM to offer
 unhindered access to both parties is nothing but an
 attempt to show change of heart after having realised his
 folly. 3.2.7 The petitioner, contrary to the Delhi High Court
 Mediation Rules has sought to file documents exchanged
 in mediation and the same was screenshared during the
 course of oral arguments. 3.2.8 Without discussing with the Senior Leadership of
 the firm, the petitioner unilaterally referred of foreign
 client for potential arbitration to a third party.
 3.3 Without prejudice to the preliminary objections, it
 is stated by the respondent that the petitioner is neither
 seeking status quo ante nor status quo, but a final relief at
 the interim stage. In other words, the petitioner is seeking an
 entirely new state of affairs, where respondent is ousted
 from the Delhi Corporate Firm and with the petitioner being
 part of the Delhi Corporate Firm, which is in essence in the
 nature of a final relief being sought by him in the arbitration
 and cannot be granted by way of an interim prayer.
 3.4 It is the case of respondent that petitioner is acting
 in a manner virtually to destroy the Delhi Corporate Firm
 and since it is a settled law that if there is an obligation not
 to do any actor deed against the interest of the Firm or other
 partner, then prima facie, the power to expel is implied in
 the agreement. If such an implied power is not read into,
 then the Clauses casting duties and responsibilities will be
 meaningless. Therefore, if prima facie the power exists and
 is exercised, the only way for the petitioner is to seek a
 declaration that the expulsion is bad in law, which will be
 decided at the trial. But it cannot be contended at this stage
 that expulsion is non-est.
 3.5 It is the case of respondent that, in 1990, years
 before the petitioner even became a lawyer, respondent
 founded Luthra & Luthra Law Offices and is the sole O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 28/148 proprietor of the same till date. He also owns the name
 „Luthra & Luthra Law Offices‟. It was only around the year
 1995 that the petitioner joined the said proprietorship.
 Thereafter, in 1999, respondent inducted him into a
 partnership firm vide the Partnership Deed. 3.6 On the various clauses of the Partnership Deed, it is
 stated by respondent that: It is therefore stated that since no similar right is O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 29/148 conferred upon the petitioner, this shows the mutual
 understanding between the parties to the Partnership Deed
 that respondent was to always have the upper hand in the
 Delhi Corporate Firm. 3.6.3 Clause 8 of the Deed specifies that the Delhi
 Corporate Firm shall not be a partnership at will and the
 Deed may be terminated „only‟ by respondent „and none
 other‟. The said Clause provides for a notice period that
 ought to be followed by respondent before termination. In
 other words, it is respondent‟s case, the petitioner has no
 power of termination under the Deed. 3.6.4 Clause 9 provides that in certain eventualities
 including termination under Clause 8, the surviving Party
 shall continue to be a part of the Firm, „retain all the
 assets, offices, employees, counsel, clients etc.‟ and
 „retain and use the name of the Firm .... and the goodwill
 attached thereto‟. Therefore, after the petitioner‟s
 termination, the Delhi Corporate Firm comprising of
 respondent and the two equity partners becomes entitled
 to all assets, offices, employees, counsel, clients etc.
 3.6.5 The initial profit-sharing percentage of 75 %
 (respondent) and 25 % (petitioner) was modified to
 66.66% and 33.33% for respondent and petitioner
 respectively on April 01, 2004. Similar modification was
 done for Mumbai Corporate Firm (2004) and the
 petitioner was inducted as a 6th partner for Delhi
 Litigation Firm (April 21, 2015). 3.6.6 On August 04, 2018, even the names of the Delhi
 Corporate Firm, Mumbai Corporate Firm and Delhi
 Litigation Firm were changed to „L&L Partners New
 Delhi‟, „L&L Partners Mumbai‟, and „L&L Partners
 Litigation‟ respectively. 3.7 It is stated by the respondent that between 2019
 and 2020, respondent and petitioner were in talks about
 dilution of equity shares held by the two partners (petitioner
 and respondent) in Delhi Corporate Firm. Respondent
 readily agreed for diluting his equity in order to bring in
 other partners, and proposed that both respondent and
 petitioner should dilute their equity shares proportionately as
 provided in Clause 7D of the Deed. It is also stated by the
 respondent that even though he was not obliged under the
 Deed to do so, respondent agreed to this because he realized
 the need to expand the partnership to ensure future growth
 and prospects of the firm, as also to meet the aspirations of
 younger partners who had contributed to the firm‟s growth.
 It is stated, respondent even suggested that he will dilute a
 larger portion of his equity than the petitioner (thereby
 departing from the Deed against his own interests), provided
 that the difference in the extent of dilution is not
 unreasonably large. 3.8 However, it is averred by respondent that the
 petitioner kept making unreasonable proposals departing
 from the Deed, whereunder, respondent would dilute a huge
 chunk of his equity while petitioner would dilute virtually O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 31/148 nothing in comparison. This led to disagreements between
 the respondent and petitioner. While initially the
 disagreements were limited to private conversations between
 respondent and petitioner, the petitioner started behaving in
 the most unprofessional manner and began sharing the
 contents of his discussions with respondent on other
 Whatsapp chat groups involving Corporate Partners and
 Senior Partners of the Delhi Corporate Firm. 3.9 It is also stated that the petitioner also began
 insulting and making slanderous statements against
 respondent in front of the said Corporate Partners and Senior
 Partners, including raising various kinds of baseless
 allegations against respondent. All of this led to creation of a
 very unpleasant situation where the petitioner was clearly
 aiming to discredit the respondent to further his own
 motives, and which actions were contrary to the larger
 interests of the Delhi Corporate Firm. Ultimately,
 respondent realized that the petitioner was seeking to oust
 him from the firm altogether, and for this purpose kept on
 indulging in actions to make the position of respondent
 untenable, and had been setting the basis for the same over
 the last few years. 3.10 It is also pointed out by the respondent that it was
 to make the position of the L&L Firms in the public domain
 untenable that the petitioner has filed confidential messages
 exchanged between the parties, including client data, which
 were discussions never meant to be public. Further, it is O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 32/148 stated by respondent that through this highly unprofessional
 and unethical conduct, the petitioner has demonstrated that
 he has only his own interest at heart and cares nothing for
 the firm and its clients. 3.11 On the allegations of material breaches by the
 respondent, it is stated by respondent that the very issue of
 „material breaches‟ cannot be made applicable to him as he
 is the primary partner as per the Deed, who alone can initiate
 termination. In other words, it is stated that the as per Clause
 8 of the Deed, material breach as a ground for termination is
 not available against respondent, but only against other
 partners including the petitioner. 3.12 Without prejudice it is also stated that all the
 material breaches alleged by the petitioner are completely
 false and misconceived; which needs to be proved by the
 petitioner at trial leading substantive evidence. It is also
 stated by respondent that the all such allegations made by
 the petitioner in fact are defamatory and the respondent
 reserves his right to take appropriate action against the
 petitioner in this respect. 3.13 On the chronology of events, it is stated by the
 respondent as: Accordingly, respondent informed the petitioner that the
 Deed shall come to an end within 90 days and the
 Mumbai Corporate Firm stands dissolved within 180 days
 from the date of the notice. 3.13.5 On January 09, 2020 respondent put to the
 petitioner that he had issued the termination notice and
 sought the petitioner‟s response if he wanted to further
 practice law and compete with respondent, or take a
 goodwill payment. 3.13.6 On January 26, 2020, respondent again
 clarified to the petitioner that termination meant that the
 petitioner would have to leave the firm. 3.13.7 Ever since the issuance of the said
 termination notice dated January 06, 2020, it is stated by
 the respondent that, from the Whatsapp conversations it
 was clear that the respondent‟s intention was to resolve O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 34/148 the disputes amicably within the firm, failing which the
 petitioner would have to exit the firm in pursuance of the
 termination notice. 3.13.8 On April 04, 2020 and thereafter on May 28,
 2020, respondent, despite many obligations, extended in
 good faith the Termination Notice by 60 days. 3.13.9 On June 03, 2020 the petitioner, inter alia
 reiterated to respondent that he could consider leaving the
 firm if certain conditions were met. It is stated that the in
 the same communication, the petitioner falsely stated to
 respondent that as per terms, the Deed allows for
 dissolution by mutual consent and he did not give his
 consent, but only agreed to the suggestion being
 discussed further, and even on date there was no mutual
 agreement on who would leave the firm. 3.13.10 Thereafter, it is stated, on June 14, 2020,
 petitioner stated to respondent that he did not believe the
 firm could be saved, and asked respondent to make him
 an offer for his (i.e. the petitioner‟s) exit. 3.13.11 Further on June 24, 2020, petitioner
 presented respondent with some options including the
 petitioner leaving the firm and expressed his confidence
 that high performing teams and clients would come with
 him. 3.13.12 Further on August 30, 2020, the termination
 notice was extended till October 31, 2020. It is stated by
 the respondent No. 1 that all these extensions were made O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 35/148 by him bona fide, in the interests of the firm and
 repeatedly attempted to amicably resolve the disputes.
 3.13.13 Thereafter, on September 13, 2020, on
 „Corporate Partners‟ (WhatsApp Group), respondent
 declared that the time for negotiation was over and made
 a final proposal concerning the dilution of equity within
 the Firm and stated that if the foresaid proposal was not
 acceptable, persons disagreeing were free to leave after
 the end one month. Therefore, it is stated by the
 respondent that the petitioner‟s manipulative spin to his
 communications dubbing respondent wished to
 „withdraw‟ or „retire‟ from the Delhi Corporate Firm was
 totally contrary to his intentions. 3.13.14 It is stated by respondent that at the L&L
 Firm‟s „townhall‟ meeting on September 24, 2020 the
 petitioner again tried to present a misleading picture in
 front of the entire firm that respondent had offered to
 resign. The respondent immediately called him out then
 and there denying any such offer and telling him not to
 cherry pick. 3.13.15 At the same meeting respondent informed
 the other partners that petitioner had omitted to read out
 portions of the message where he himself had asked
 respondent for money to leave the firm. 3.13.16 Thereafter, on October 04, 2020, on the
 „Corporate Partners‟ WhatsApp Group, respondent
 announced that he proposes to induct new partners into O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 36/148 the Delhi Corporate Firm and then accordingly sent an
 email dated October 04, 2020 to the members of the firm
 intimating them all of this intention. 3.13.17 To the above stand of the respondent,
 petitioner objected on October 05, 2020 the misplaced
 ground that as per the Deed, partners cannot be inducted
 into the Delhi Corporate Firm without his (Petitioner‟s)
 consent. 3.13.18 October 06, 2020, respondent denied the
 petitioner‟s baseless statements in view of Clause 7(D) of
 the Deed. 3.13.19 It is stated that on October 10, 2020, as
 announced earlier, respondent inducted 2 new equity
 partners namely Aniket Sen Gupta and Harish Kumar into
 the Delhi Corporate Firm from his own share of equity by
 exercising his powers under Clause 7D of the Deed.
 3.13.20 It is also stated that the petitioner‟s case is
 based on the belied allegation that respondent expressed
 desire to retire from the firm on January 06, 2020 through
 a notice of withdrawal and it is this offer which the
 petitioner claims to have accepted on October 12, 2020,
 through his communication. On the other hand, it is stated
 that it was respondent who sent a notice to the petitioner
 to terminate his partnership with respondent. And, the
 petitioner is merely cherry-picking communications
 between the parties to present a misleading picture.
 3.13.21 It is further stated that pursuant to this O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 37/148 attempt to give a false and manipulative spin to the
 communications of the respondent, on the same day the
 petitioner reached out to all employees and retainers of
 the L&L Firms, misrepresenting to them that respondent
 had retired and left behind the petitioner as the sole
 surviving partner of the Delhi Corporate Firm. 3.13.22 It is also stated that the claim of the
 petitioner that he reconstituted the firm on the same day
 by inducting 23 new equity partners is also belied owing
 to the fact that it was on the evening of October 12, 2020
 after 6:33 pm when the respondent was stated to have
 „retired‟. The petitioner has also overlooked the fact that
 even by his own showing, the respondent remained a
 partner until midnight on the night of October 12, 2020
 and so no legal induction or redistribution of the
 respondent‟s 66.67% share could have taken place on that
 day. Moreover, the petitioner has not even produced the
 signed partnership deed or named the said partners before
 this Court, casting huge doubts over the veracity of the
 statements. 3.13.23 Twelve minutes later, on October 12, 2020
 the respondent sent an e-mail to the employees and
 retainers of the 3 firms denying the petitioner‟s claims
 about respondent‟s retirement, repudiating the purported
 resignation. Further, it is stated that the petitioner has
 acted in violation of Section 9 of the Partnership Act to be
 just and faithful to each other. 3.13.24 On the morning of October 13, 2020 at 10.03
 A.M., owing to the petitioner‟s egregious actions, the
 respondent was constrained to issue a notice under
 Clauses 7A & 8 of the Deed terminating the petitioner as
 partner of the Delhi Corporate Firm with immediate
 effect. And it was immediately on receiving the letter of
 termination that the petitioner shot out an email at 10.25
 A.M. on October 13, 2020 to the support staff of the
 Delhi Corporate Firm reiterating the that respondent had
 retired but requesting that equal treatment be meted out to
 both the petitioner and respondent, while the missive
 object was the opposite. The petitioner even sought to
 prevent any administrative measures that would follow as
 a result of his termination and to usurp the Delhi
 Corporate Firm in which respondent has dominant control
 in terms of the Deed. 3.13.25 It was under these circumstances that the
 respondent, on October 14, 2020, was constrained to send
 communications to the clients of the Delhi Corporate
 Firm that the petitioner had been denuded of authority to
 represent the Delhi Corporate Firm. 3.13.26 Even thereafter, the petitioner was still
 determined to cause harm to the Delhi Corporate Firm.
 He was reaching out to clients, employees and retainers
 of the Delhi Corporate Firm misrepresenting to them that
 respondent had resigned, and that the petitioner was now
 the sole surviving partner of the Delhi Corporate Firm. Thus, the respondent was constrained to instruct the staff
 of the Delhi Corporate Firm to block the petitioner‟s
 access to the Firm‟s offices, IT infrastructure and his
 official e-mail. 3.13.27 On October 15, 2020, a Partners‟ Meeting
 was held as scheduled on October 14, 2020 and 34
 salaried partners (except 3-4) attended the meeting. On
 the same day, information was sent to the petitioner that
 he shall be paid a sum of Rs. 16 Crores (approx.) pursuant
 to his termination from the Delhi Corporate Firm.
 3.13.28 Surprisingly, on October 15, 2020 itself, the
 petitioner filed this petition under Section 9 of the Act of
 1996 claiming a host of reliefs as prayed for. 3.14 Without prejudice, it is stated that the petitioner is
 not entitled to any relief as what is sought for is neither
 status quo ante nor status quo but rather an unprecedented
 and totally illegal state of affairs. It is also stated that a
 partnership cannot be rendered helpless if one partner does
 acts which virtually amount to destruction of the
 partnership and then say that others have no power to expel
 him. It is the respondent‟s case, it is settled law that if there
 is an obligation not to do any act or deed against the interest
 of the firm or other partner, then prima facie, the power to
 expel is implied in the agreement. If such an implied power
 is not read then the clauses casting duties and
 responsibilities, will be meaningless. If therefore prima facie
 the power exists and is exercised, the only way for the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 40/148 petitioner is to seek a declaration that the expulsion is bad in
 law, which will be decided at the trial. But it cannot be
 contended at this stage that expulsion is non-est.
 3.15 It is averred that the petitioner is seeking reliefs
 which are, in essence, in the nature of a final relief to be
 sought by him in the prospective arbitration and cannot be
 granted by way of an interim prayer. In fact, in paragraph 39
 of the petition, the petitioner admits that the respondent
 repudiated his alleged withdrawal from the Delhi Corporate
 Firm on October 12, 2020 itself. Thus, the case of the
 petitioner that the respondent has withdrawn from the firm is
 just his unilateral assertion (and contrary to his very
 pleadings and documents) and cannot be taken as truth till
 the petitioner seeks a declaration in this respect and is able
 to prove it at trial by leading evidence. This cannot be done
 in the present proceedings under Section 9 of the Act of
 1996. 3.16 It is also averred that the petitioner has admitted
 that the respondent cannot be terminated from the Delhi
 Corporate Firm. The only ground on which the respondent
 ceases to be part of the Delhi Corporate Firm is, if the
 respondent chooses to retire or withdraw from the Delhi
 Corporate Firm in accordance with Clause 7E of the Deed.
 The reliance placed upon Clause 8(b) by the petitioner is
 completely misconceived as termination on the ground of
 „material breach‟ is only available to respondent. Further, it
 is averred that if the case of the petitioner, that the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 41/148 respondent has „retired‟ is not prima facie sustainable and
 therefore, there is no question of the petitioner praying for
 the respondent to desist from managing the Delhi Corporate
 Firm. On the contrary, it is the petitioner who has been
 terminated as on October 13, 2020 by the respondent under
 Clause 7 and Clause 8 of the Deed under the powers
 conferred therein. 3.17 Without prejudice, it is stated that even if that the
 termination is not in accordance with the Deed, the
 petitioner is not entitled to be reinstated in the Delhi
 Corporate Firm, as it is his own case that he cannot work
 with respondent. Consequently, since it is also the
 respondent‟s own case that they cannot function together,
 there is no question of the petitioner being permitted to
 function in the Delhi Corporate Firm along with respondent.
 The only remedy, if at all available to the petitioner, even
 assuming the termination is held to be bad in law in any
 appropriate proceedings, is compensation for wrongful
 termination. 3.18 On the grant of injunction, it is stated that an
 injunction cannot be granted where the underlying contract
 is otherwise incapable of specific performance. A contract
 for petitioner and respondent to remain and continue as
 partners cannot be enforced. The general rule is that an
 agreement to form and carry on a partnership would not be
 specifically enforced and specific performance cannot be
 granted where it involves personal volition, personal service O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 42/148 or continuing personal relationships between the parties
 which the Court cannot supervise. 3.19 It is also stated that the petitioner has not made a
 prima facie case as (i) the entire case of the petitioner is
 based on the allegation that respondent has withdrawn /
 retired from the firm, which is not the case; (ii) respondent
 had clearly on August 08, 2020 put all his proposals on the
 table and revealed his final offer, which is indicative of the
 fact that he is not retiring or withdrawing from the Delhi
 Corporate Firm but is only offering dilution of his equity to
 sort out issues; (iii) the message of September 13, 2020 is
 clear and reveals respondent‟s intention of resurrecting the
 firm; (iv) message on September 18, 2020 and
 communications/emails from October 4, 2020 to October
 10, 2020 clearly demonstrate respondent‟s intention of
 rebuilding the firm and even petitioner has admitted to this
 as per his September 21, 2020 message, indicative of the
 fact that the petitioner was aware respondent was
 terminating and not retiring; (v) no power exist under the
 Deed for petitioner to remove the respondent and hence the
 entire attempt is to misread the messages to make out a case
 of retirement/withdrawal; (vii) Moreover, the petitioner‟s
 case can only mean that the minute the respondent
 withdrew from the firm, the firm had to necessarily stand
 dissolved, because there was no other partner in the firm and
 he cannot constitute a sole partnership. Thus, any induction
 of 23 alleged unnamed partners (contrary to Section 31 of O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 43/148 the Partnership Act ) as alleged by the petitioner can only be
 in relation to a fresh partnership between the petitioner and
 23 other unnamed persons, which has no relation to the L&L
 Firms; (viii) Condition as provided in Clause 7E or 8(e) for
 retirement/withdrawal has not been met in the petition; (ix)
 as per Clause 8 the partnership being not at Will, can only
 be terminated or dissolved by respondent by giving notices
 as stipulated therein i.e. giving of 90 days‟ notice and
 attempting to amicably resolve issues within the said 90
 days period, and 90 days commenced on January 06, 2020.
 The said 90 days were extended by the respondent time and
 again. However, no amicable resolution was possible and
 matters came to a head on October 12, 2020. This forced
 respondent to exercise powers under Clause 7A and 8 to
 terminate the partnership of the petitioner; (x) termination
 letter issued to the petitioner on October 13, 2020 was not
 even replied or repudiated by the petitioner. 3.20 On balance of convenience, it is stated by the
 respondent that: (i) he has the dominant right to the Delhi
 Corporate Firm and its management as : (a) as per Clause 3 (ii) the respondent has greater financial rights than the
 petitioner; (b) as per Clause 7A, the respondent has the
 binding vote on all critical matters including termination; (c)
 under Clause 7C the respondent can appraise the work of the
 petitioner and not the other way around; (d) under Clause
 7D the respondent has the superior right of induction of new
 partners by diluting his own share, without the consent of O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 44/148 the petitioner;(e) the respondent holds the majority stake in
 the Delhi Corporate Firm as it is respondent who has
 developed the said firm and brought it to its present level; (ii) petitioner in any case, has no right to use the name of the
 firm as per Clause 5A unless and until respondent is paid
 goodwill as calculated therein and it is not the case of the
 petitioner that respondent was paid any goodwill upon his
 alleged withdrawal from the firm; (iii) the actions and
 conduct of the petitioner demonstrate extreme prejudice
 towards not only the respondent, but also to the firm itself,
 as he has disclosed voluminous confidential chats between
 the partners of the firm, which not only relate to internal
 discussions but also touch upon client related matters, which
 are a gross breach of confidentiality and the ethical
 obligations of the petitioner as an advocate. 3.21 On no irreparable injury being suffered by the
 petitioner, it is by the respondent that: (i) the subsequent
 events after October 13, 2020 have shown that the
 termination of the petitioner has worked in the interests of
 the Delhi Corporate Firm. A public notice was issued
 informing the public at large about termination of the
 petitioner from the L&L Firms. The clients and employees
 were also duly informed, responsibilities have been
 reassigned and work is proceeding smoothly to the
 satisfaction clients. Not a single client has withdrawn its
 business. The website has been redesigned as well; (ii) the
 respondent has honoured the Deed and has issued a cheque O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 45/148 for Rs.15,60,68,127/- (Fifteen Crores, Sixty Lakhs, Sixty
 Eight Thousand, One Hundred & Twenty Seven) only,
 which is the amount due and payable to the petitioner upon
 his termination as per the Deed. If, after preparation of final
 accounts, some further amount is found payable to the
 petitioner, then even that will be paid. Thus, the petitioner
 will be properly compensated as per the Deed and no injury
 is suffered by him. 4. A rejoinder has also been filed by the petitioner. 5. Mr. Parag Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf
of the petitioner stated as his primary contention that master-servant
relationship is alien to partnership. It is submitted by him that it is
settled law, a partnership is not a master-servant relationship or
relationship of subordination rather it is one of equality, whether one is
a majority or minority partner. In this regard he has relied upon
Regional Director, ESI Corpn. v. Ramanuja Match Industries,
(1985) 1 SCC 218 and Keshavji Ravji & Co. v. CIT, (1990) 2 SCC 231.
5.1. He further stated that no single partner has a superior right over
the property brought into the partnership firm. The fact that the
partners are equals and there exists no master-servant relationship is
also supported by a long line of judgments holding that the property of
a partnership firm, including the goodwill, is jointly owned by the
partners, and each partner is entitled to his share upon dissolution of
the firm. In this regard, reliance is placed upon Section 48 of the
Partnership Act and Addanki Narayanappa v. Bhaskara Krishtappa ,
(1966) 3 SCR 400; CED v. Mrudula Nareshchandra, (1986) Supp O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 46/148 SCC 357 and; CIT v S. Sivaprakasa Mudaliar , (1983) 144 ITR 285
(Madras HC). 5.2 It is submitted by Mr. Tripathi, the expression „termination‟ is
incongruous while dealing with the issue of a partner leaving the firm
as it relates to a master servant relationship and therefore „termination‟
has relevance only in the context of termination of the Deed and not
that of a partner. In so far as partner is concerned, the appropriate
expression is „expulsion‟ and the same has been duly recognized under Section 33 of the Partnership Act. He went on to submit that as per
the said Section, specific provision in the contract/deed is required for
expulsion of a partner and such a contractual power demands exercise
by means of demonstrable good faith irrespective of the power
conferred in the contract/deed. In support of his contention, Mr.
Tripathi has relied upon Dr. S. Vel Arvind v. Dr. Radhakrishnan ,
(2018) 4 Mad LJ 468 and Mahendra Thakkar v. Yogendra Thakkar,
2008 SCC Online Bom 772. 5.3 Mr. Tripathi submitted that the Section 33 is in fact a specific
statutory manifestation of the general duty of good faith that the
partners have towards each other by virtue of Section 9 of the
Partnership Act. Thus, the duty of good faith imposed by the said
Section is absolute and not subject to any partnership deed as opposed
to many other rights / obligations of the partners as specified under the
said Act. He also submitted that this duty is to be applied in the
performance of the partnership deed and also in the dissolution of the
partnership or removal of a partner, more so in light of the onerous
consequences that flow from expulsion of a partner. Additionally, he
also relied upon the Seventh Report of the Law Commission of India O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 47/148 (1957) to submit that there is a second condition precedent of
principles of natural justice to be exercised to the right of expulsion.
5.4 On Section 9 of the Partnership Act, it is submitted by him that
it cast general duties on the partners to act in good faith and recognises
fiduciary relationship. The aspect of fiduciary duty heightens all the
more, when one group has a clear majority vis-à-vis the minority akin
to operation and management. In this regard he has drawn the attention
of this Court to Section 12 of the Partnership Act as well as Lindley &
Banks on Partnership, 20th Edition, Para 16-01/Page 115/CV II. The
latter reads as under: 5.5 Mr. Tripathi also submitted that the respondent‟s theory of the
Deed bearing an overall intent of „dominant partner‟ is of no relevance
in ascertaining the existence of the power to expel. In other words, it is
his submission in view of the terms of the Deed and Section 33 of the
Partnership Act; the respondent had no power to take the actions that
he took on October 13, 2020. In support of his submission, he stated
that Section 33 envisages a general rule and imposes a prohibition in
the expulsion of a partner in a partnership firm, and the exception to
the rule stipulates express provision in the contract/deed and good
faith. The expulsion clause, if any, as per the contract/deed needs to
strictly construed as stated in Pollock & Mulla, The Indian
Partnership Act, 8th Edn., Page 176. Mr Tripathi furthered this O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 48/148 submission by stating that the respondent has failed to answer / make
out the requirements of Section 33 of the Partnership Act.
5.6. On the court reinstating under this petition the last uncontested
status quo, Mr. Tripathi submitted that the legality of the induction of
the 23 new partners by the petitioner is separate and distinct from and
has no bearing on the purported expulsion of the petitioner by
respondent; the actions by petitioner and the respondent both requiring
examination on merits. But the attempt made by the respondent is to
conflate the two arguments in absence of any valid defence. It is also
submitted by him that during arguments none of the grounds of
alleged „material breach‟ as alleged in the termination notice viz., of
having received kickbacks in cash from a client who is being
investigated by CBI, have been even referred to. To the contrary, an
attempt has been made to discredit the Petitioner and make personal
and scathing attacks on irrelevant and extraneous grounds. This is all
the more important in light of the strict construction given to expulsion
clauses and the statutorily mandated duty of good faith with which
such a power, where it is held to have been conferred, is to be
exercised. 5.7 In furtherance, Mr. Tripathi has drawn the attention of this
Court to 3 possible scenarios to validate his contention for granting the
last uncontested status quo. The scenarios are reproduced as under: 5.9 On the stand taken by the respondent that the Deed gives him
right to unilaterally induct new partners and inducted two partners on O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 50/148 October 10, 2020, it is stated by Mr. Tripathi that Section 30(1) of the
Partnership Act contemplates that in the absence of an express
provision in the partnership deed, a new partner can only be admitted
with the consent of all the existing partners. Further in terms of the
Partnership Deed, it is submitted by him that no unilateral right is
granted to the respondent under the Deed to induct new partners
(Reference: Clause 7D). And, also, respondent lacks the power to
unilaterally induct new partners when admittedly on October 10, 2020
petitioner was a partner and no consent was obtained from him.
Furthermore, Clause 7D applies only when there is a disagreement
between the petitioner and respondent. Mr. Tripathi submitted that
even the names of the partners to be inducted were never
communicated to the petitioner, which is clear from the e-mails dated
October 04, 2010 and October 05, 2010. 5.10 According to Mr. Tripathi, the effect of the alleged expulsion of
the petitioner, is that the partnership came to an end. On the falsity of
the case of the respondent and the same being an afterthought, it is
stated by Mr. Tripathi that the purported order of
termination/expulsion of the petitioner by respondent neither refers to
the view/consent of the so-called two new inductees nor is it marked to
the new so-called inductees. Equally significant is that that it is not
even the case of the Respondent that on October 10, 2020, whether
with or without the consent of the petitioner, a new Partnership Deed
was drawn up and/or much less signed and executed. The stand of
during the course of oral submissions on behalf of the Respondent, a
vague reference was made to the fact that the two so-called inductees
had signed a Deed of Adherence which document has not even been O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 51/148 referred to in the Respondent‟s pleadings much less produced or relied
upon by the Respondent. It was pointed out that induction of the so-
called „partners‟ is, at best, in line with Section 29 of the Partnership
Act, wherein a partner is permitted to assign his interest in favour of a
third party. He pointed out that such an assignee of economic interest
will have no management role to play and certainly none without the
consent of the petitioner. 5.11 On the terms of the Partnership Deed, it is submitted by Mr.
Tripathi that as per Clause 7(A), respondent is not empowered to expel
the petitioner. He submitted that the entire Notice dated October 13,
2020 has reference to only two provisions viz., Clause 7(A) and
Clause 8. According to him Clause 7 deals with decision making of
the firm and provides the general rule of majority of partners and
naturally in the continued scenario of two partners unanimously. In
the event of disagreement, if there are more than two partners,
obviously the majority will prevail whether it contains respondent or
not. If there are only two partners, even for the sake of argument that
the respondent will have the final say, it cannot exceed the matters set
out in Clause 7(A). He vehemently submitted that there exists a clear
limitation on this authority of Respondent referred to as a „Veto‟
power which is to be found in Clause 7(A) (3rd para) which reads as
„issues that have been agreed to between the parties including
contents of this deed cannot be subsequently reopened by RKL under
the VETO powers‟. 5.12 Further, as per Clause 7A, the issues on which the decision of
respondent will be final and binding are: „termination, performance
review of partners....... removal of any constituent of the firm (other O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 52/148 than partners)‟. The termination here refers to the preceding words in
the clause, namely, amalgamation, mergers, etc. According to him, to
read „termination‟ as including expulsion of petitioner, will run
counter to the last entry and will render the more specific entry as
redundant and otiose. Even otherwise, the expression „termination of
petitioner‟ is inappropriate and grotesque to describe expulsion of a
partner. He submitted that this termination is not a reference to
termination of a partner or termination of petitioner; rather it is to the
„termination/dissolution of the firm‟ as specified in Clause 8. This is
clear from a perusal of the partnership deed. Moreover, Clause 7A
specifically interdicts the respondent from using his alleged powers to
confer a disproportionate benefit to himself and from participating in a
decision when he would be „directly or indirectly‟ interested in the
decision, which gets squarely attracted in this case.
5.13 On the respondent‟s stand that „termination‟ has to take colour
from the subsequent words „Performance review of partners‟, he
submitted, if that be so, then it obviously cannot mean termination of
the Petitioner, as performance review of the Petitioner is separately
provided in Clause 7C. Therefore, if performance review cannot
pertain to the Petitioner, termination equally cannot pertain to the
Petitioner. In terms of Clause 7A, the ultimate test according to him is Section 33 of the Partnership Act. 5.14 He has also relied upon Clause 5A (second para), which reads as
„if MS is asked to leave the firm‟, to submit that, what has been
envisaged therein is the only part of the Deed which contemplates the
respondent asking petitioner to leave. And, this was subject to a testing
period of four and a half years under specified cause viz. misconduct O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 53/148 under section 7(iv) , then arguably Petitioner is not entitled to any
goodwill, otherwise Petitioner is entitled to 50% of the entitled value
of goodwill. 5.15 On Clause 7(C) it is stated that the same underscores the
importance of the testing period i.e., the first ten years of the firm‟s
life and the period beyond the first ten years of the firm‟s life. Clause
7(C) makes it clear that during the first ten years, respondent had
authority to reduce the percentage interest of Petitioner subject to a
cap of 5% in a year. After the said period, Respondent could only
impose a token penalty upon petitioner. In other words, it is his
submission that the nature of the rights of the parties changed with
efflux of time. The major timelines were the testing period of four and
a half years, thereafter a consolidation period which varied between
first ten years and the period thereafter. According to him, that there is
no reference to termination. This is solely because termination is not
contemplated beyond the testing period of four and a half years.
5.16 Mr. Tripathi also submitted that the expression
„termination/dissolution‟ used in Clause 8 refers to the
termination/dissolution of the deed and therefore the Delhi Corporate
Firm. This according to him is because the partnership is not at will,
therefore, no party can dissolve the firm without cause. Secondly, „the
deed may be terminated or dissolved only by RKL‟. Thus, the
expression „terminated‟ is in the context of dissolving or terminating
the deed and not terminating a partner or a party. He also stated that
the confusion sought to be created by the respondent needs to rejected
in view of (a) to (e) of Clause 8; which provides the basis of
termination of the Deed. The consequences of what may happen if the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 54/148 requirements of sub-clauses (a) to (e) of Clause 8 are fulfilled is the
possible termination of the Partnership Deed and nothing else.
Procedurally, there is also a substantive limitation on the exercise of
this power to terminate/dissolve of the firm which is in the proviso to
Clause 8 namely that before issuing the termination notice of 90 days,
there would be a prior period of 90 days to try an amicably resolve the
dispute. Moreover, Clause 8(b) is not in the context of the expulsion of
a party/partner but in the context of a „for cause
termination/dissolution of the deed‟. 5.17 Insofar as Clause 9 is concerned, Mr. Tripathi stated that it
provides for „termination / dissolution / retirement / withdrawal /
death‟ by referring to Clause 6 (successors of a partner), Clause 7(E)
(retirement) and Clause 8 (termination and dissolution). Clause 9A(c)
refers to the surviving party or the firm and/or the firm compensating
the terminated/retiring/withdrawing and the heirs of the deceased
party. This is the only place in the contract where the expression
„terminated‟ is used in the context of a party. According to him, this
expression has meaning only in the context of the second para of
Clause 5(A) as explained. This is made clear by Clause 9A(c)(i) when
it states that such a party shall be paid „a sum equivalent to the
goodwill, as calculated pursuant and subject to Clause 5‟. Clearly,
Clause 9 of the Deed has nothing to do with any power of expulsion,
nor does it confer any such power. It only deals with the consequences
of either termination or dissolution of the deed or the
retirement/withdrawal/death of a partner. Rather this also reinforces
the argument of the petitioner that there is no power of expulsion in
the deed. Clause 10 of the Deed refers to the retirement, temporary O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 55/148 withdrawal or termination of a party for any of the reasons referred to
in Clause 8. However, on Clause 11.2 it is stated by Mr. Tripathi that
the word terminate is in the contest of the agreement like for instance
dissolution and for expulsion, the expression used is „if any party.....is
asked to leave the firm‟. Thus, to read into termination, expulsion
would be inconsistent with the scheme, drift and tenor of the
Partnership Deed and the law of partnership. 5.18 Without prejudice, Mr. Tripathi contended that the alleged
termination notices are in violation of the Partnership Act and Clause
8 of the Deed. This he says so by relying upon the Notice dated
January 6, 2020 and other WhatsApp messages of the respondent. It is
submitted by the Mr. Tripathi that the respondent was clear in all his
communications that he is only referring to the dissolution of the
partnership and not termination/expulsion of the petitioner from the
Firm. The said communications read as under: c. April 04, 2020 the Respondent while extending his notice
 of06.01.2020 stated that the automatic "dissolution of the firm" e. June 30, 2020- the Respondent says that he sees little scope O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 56/148 of being able to reconcile things and move forward and he is
 thinking of the best way forward - until then again extends
 "dissolution of the firm". f. August 30, 2020- the Respondent again extends dissolution
 notice up to October 31, 2020. 5.19 Moreover, in view of the above communication, according to
him the letter dated October 13, 2020 issued by the respondent is not
but a knee-jerk reaction to the petitioner‟s letter dated October 12,
2020 accepting respondent‟s retirement. 5.20 Mr. Tripathi states even assuming that the Clause 8 refers to
termination of a partner, compliance of the notice period under the
said Clause is mandatory. The respondent in its reply has
categorically averred and during the oral submissions it was argued on
behalf of respondent that the notice dated January 6, 2020 was the
relevant notice and since then more than 270 days have passed and
therefore no further notice was required. According to Mr. Tripathi
this argument needs to be rejected for the reason that the respondent‟s
notice was a notice under Clause 8(a) and not under Clause 8(b) as
argued on behalf of the respondent. Clause 8(a) cannot take effect in
the absence of an unanimous agreement and there was no unanimous
approval for dissolution from the petitioner (reference to whatsapp
messages between petitioner and respondent on December 26, 2019
and December 29, 2019, page 98, 99 and 106 of Volume 1 /
documents). Therefore, he stated that if there is no unanimity (in
which context alone according to him the period for amicable
resolution was long over) then the only consequence collateral
termination is withdrawal from the firm, which the petitioner accepted O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 57/148 on October 12, 2020. 5.21 Mr. Tripathi stated that the respondent has failed to show the
procedure specified in Clause 8 was followed and the condition
precedent for exercise of power under Clause 8 is issuance of two
separate notices (a) first notice under proviso to Clause 8, after which
the parties will try to amicably resolve the disputes for a period of 90
days; and (b) second notice after the said amicable resolution fails
which notice is for a period of 90 days. According to him, the proviso
to Clause 8 makes it clear that the first notice has to be issued upon the
occurrence of events specified in Clause 8(a) to 8(d). No such event
has been specified in the notice dated January 6, 2020. And for this
reason alone, the said notice ought not to be construed as a valid first
notice of termination thereby triggering the commencement of the first
90 days period. Further, the notice dated October 13, 2020 does not
even refer any of the aforesaid earlier notices that it purports to be in
continuation of and at the best the notice dated October 10, 2020 can
be contemplated as the first notice under Clause 8.
5.22 Without prejudice, he submitted that even if notice dated
January 6, 2020 is considered as the first notice, the October 13, 2020
letter (email) in so far as it purports to be the second notice is invalid
and illegal as it comes to effect immediately as opposed to adhering to
mandatory 90 days period specified in Clause 8. He also states, the
extension dated August 30, 2020 clearly states that the deadline under
the dissolution notice has been extended till October 31, 2020 which
period can be shortened by issuance of a 7 days‟ notice and even this 7
days‟ advance notice has been done away with, which clearly shows
that the mala fide intent of the respondent. Moreover, without O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 58/148 prejudice he went on to state that the alleged two new partners are not
even copied / addressed in the purported termination notice dated
October 13, 2020 which is also in violation of Clause 8.
5.23 That apart, he submitted that the notice dated October 13, 2020
does not specify any material breach by the petitioner and none of the
conditions as per Clause 8 is met / specified and the only allegation
which falls in this category is with regard to kickbacks being taken
from a firm which is currently under CBI investigation and does not
provide adequate details for the petitioner to even issue a reply to. Mr.
Tripathi, further submitted that the perusal of the said letter in fact
pertains to respondent being displeased with petitioner conduct and the
tone and tenor of the said termination letter resonates a master-servant
relationship. Therefore, according to Mr. Tripathi the consequences of
termination as specified in Clause 9 will only apply if the action is
taken by the respondent in terms of provisions of the partnership deed
including Clauses 6, 7E or 8 as the case may be or for bona fide and
greatest common advantage as mandated under Section 9 of the
Partnership Act; none of these have been satisfied in the present case.
5.24 In fact, he vehemently contended it is the respondent who had to
defend the contents of the alleged termination letter dated October 13,
2020 and there has not been a whisper in the oral arguments on behalf
of the respondent to justify or substantiate the allegations made out in
the said letter. 5.25 He further submitted that the notice of January 6, 2020 was a
notice under Clause 8(a) of the Deed and not under Clause 8(b). In
this regard he stated that the petitioner has agreed for termination and
thus the respondent using his authority under Clause 8 served the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 59/148 termination notice which is evident from the communication of
respondent on January 26, 2020, wherein he stated as "Please get it
straight, you agreed for termination of the partnership and thus, I,
using my exclusive authority to terminate the partnership, did so under
clause 8." He stated that the extending notices also followed the same
premise. However, the petitioner never gave his consent to the
termination in accordance with Clause 8(a). Neither, according to Mr.
Tripathi, is the notice under Clause 8(b) as the facts on which the
respondent based his allegations are vague, without any material and
not found presence in the Notice dated January 6, 2020. In other
words, Mr. Tripathi stated that the respondent put forth a vague stand
on the clause under which the Notice dated January 6, 2020 was issued
and from the Whatsapp messages dated December 29, 2019, January
9, 2020 and January 26, 2020 are all messages intended to foist an
agreement upon the petitioner as to the dissolution. Moreover, Mr.
Tripathi stated that if there was a genuine case of material breach it
would have been the easiest thing allege and the petitioner did not
have to insist that there was unanimous agreement.
5.26 Mr. Tripathi also stated that the reliance placed by the
respondent upon the use of the word „may‟ in the proviso to Clause 8
to contend that notice for amicable resolution was not mandatory is
not tenable as the later part of the same sentence states that „and the
notice aforementioned, as provided above, shall be issued only after
the Parties are unable to amicably resolve the issue....‟ making the
use of the word „may‟ in the said Clause mandatory.
5.27 On the nature of expulsion clause in the Deed, it is stated by Mr.
Tripathi that the same is punitive in nature and therefore has not been O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 60/148 exercised in a bona fide manner. In this regard, he has relied upon the
Judgment of the Chancery Division in Blisset v. Daniel, (1853) 10
Hare 493. This judgment has been stated with approval by the Apex
Court Needle Industries India v. Needle Industries Newey (India
Holding Ltd. ), 1981 SCC 333. Moreover, the expulsion clause has to
be complied and interpreted strictly. Therefore, it is his submission
that the reference to „termination‟ in Clause 7A is that of termination
of the Deed and cannot be interpreted to mean termination of
petitioner. 5.28 It is further submitted by Mr. Tripathi, on a demurrer, that the
grounds in the letter dated October 13, 2020 (email) levelled against
the petitioner does not afford grounds for expulsion and the only
remedy for the respondent was dissolution of the Delhi Corporate Firm
and that as per Section 47 of the Partnership Act till the winding up of
the affairs of the firm each partner has the right to participate in the
business. He also went on to submit that the in a two-partner
partnership, expulsion of one partner would automatically lead to
dissolution by relying upon the Apex Court judgment in Erach F.D.
Mehta v. Minoo F.D. Mehta , 1970 (2) SCC 724. 6. Mr. Arvind Nigam, Senior Counsel, also appearing on behalf of
the petitioner, submitted additionally that the petitioner has proprietary
rights in the Delhi Corporate Firm which cannot be lightly interfered
with, as he is a partner and an owner of the said firm. His rights are
well recognised under the Partnership Act and exclusion of a partner
from the firm amounts to expropriation of his proprietary interests. In
this regard he has relied upon Sections 4 , 8 and 14 the Partnership Act.
And also, on Regional Director, ESI Corpn. (supra), Addanki O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 61/148 Narayanappa (supra), CED v. Mrudula Nareshchandra (supra) and; CIT v S. Sivaprakasa Mudaliar (supra). 6.1 By further relying upon the various provisions the Partnership
Act , it is stated by him that(a) the statute itself stipulates a duty of
good faith in dealings amongst partners [ Section 9 ]; (b) a living
partner may be excluded from the firm only by retirement [ Section
32 ], expulsion [ Section 33 ], or insolvency [ Section 34 ]; (c) strict
conditions are laid down for expulsion of a partner; (d) In all other
circumstances, where partners are unable to work together,
irrespective of the reason for inability of partners to work together, the
only recourse is dissolution. Dissolution can be initiated either by
notice (where the partnership is at will), by agreement between all the
partners, or by instituting a suit for dissolution. According to him, the
grounds for a suit for dissolution under Section 44 of the Partnership
Act include delinquency of a partner. Thus, even where a partner is
believed to be guilty of misconduct, it is not open to the other partners
to simply exclude him from the business, and a suit for dissolution has
to be necessarily filed. Even after the dissolution of the firm, under Section 47 of the Partnership Act, the authority of each partner to bind
the firm, and the other mutual rights and obligations of the partners,
continue notwithstanding the dissolution, so far as may be necessary to
wind up the affairs of the firm and to complete transactions begun but
unfinished at the time of the dissolution. This provision is not subject
to any contract between the partners. Therefore, even during the
process of dissolution, a partner has a statutorily conferred right to
continue to be part of the partnership business.
6.2 He also stated that these principles are of utmost importance as O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 62/148 a partnership is distinct from an ordinary contract as although the
partnership is often called a contract it is more accurately a
relationship that arises from a contract (Reference: Lindley & Banks
on Partnership, 20th Edn., 2-17, page 21; and also, Section 5 of the
Partnership Act.)
6.3 Mr. Nigam went on to state that the case put forth by the
respondent is belied not only in law but also on facts. He submitted
that respondent has also argued ad nauseum about how it was the
respondent that brought all the goodwill and clients to the firm; that it
was the respondent who has been generous in inducting the Petitioner
into the firm etc. The respondent‟s Counsels also sought to deride the
petitioner by contending that the petitioner may be executing the
mandates, but it is the respondent who brought the clients. According
to him, the said stand needs to rejected as the respondent‟s Counsels‟
by placing reliance on Clause 5 have stated that the entire goodwill of
the Delhi Corporate Firm has been brought in by respondent at the
same time failed to address why same Clause, provides that after 5
years, if the respondent leaves, the said firm he would not be entitled
to retain the clients. He also emphasised on the first line of Clause 5 A
of the Deed which reads as, "the Parties hereto agree that RKL and
L&L have, over a long period of time, developed considerable
goodwill"; where L&L is the Proprietorship. In essence, the term
„L&L‟ was included because respondent was a constituent of the
proprietorship from 1997 -1999. 6.4 It is also stated by Mr. Nigam that the name of the Delhi
Corporate Firm is no longer „Luthra & Luthra‟ as the name was
changed to „L&L Partners, New Delhi‟; which according to him was O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 63/148 the first step towards professionalising the firm. It is also stated that
the petitioner and respondent have also set up an LLP, which is owned
by the respondent and the petitioner in the ratio of 66.67% and
33.33%, respectively in the name and style of „Lex & Legal LLP‟. In
other words, according to him the firm-name is only the name under
which the business is carried on. 6.5 On the reliefs sought by the petitioner, it is submitted by Mr.
Nigam that the same is not barred by the Specific Relief Act, 1963 („SRA‟, for short) or any other law for that matter. The primary relief
seeking stay on the illegal act of the respondent in terminating his
partnership in the partnership firm „L&L Partners, New Delhi‟/ Delhi
Corporate Firm and in expropriating the partnership property for his
own exclusive benefit (for e.g. Clients, lawyers, employees, physical
assets, bank accounts, client receivables etc). He also stated that the
remaining reliefs are largely ancillary to this relief of a stay and an
interlocutory prohibitory injunction to prohibit the respondent from
interfering with the petitioner‟s rights as a partner of the firm.
6.6 In furtherance, he stated that the well-settled remedy of a
partner, who has been wrongfully expelled is to claim reinstatement
(Reference: Pollock & Mulla on the India Partnership Act, 8thedn.).
He has also relied on the judgment of Dr. S. Vel Arvind (supra),
wherein the Madras High Court while holding the expulsion to be
invalid in law, set aside the order declining interim relief (sought by
the expelled partner to exclude the others from management of the
firm) and declared that the petitioner has right to participate in the
administration of the firm; similar to the argument and relief sought by
the petitioner. Anchoring on the said position of law, he stated it is no O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 64/148 answer that the petitioner may have a right to claim compensation,
even if the expulsion is found to be wrongful. The question that arises
is whether an interim injunction would be granted on the well-
established tests of prima facie case, balance of convenience and
irreparable injury and under the circumstances there is no other relief
that could effectively protect the rights of the petitioner. Reliance is
also placed on a Bombay High Court judgment in Champsey Bhimji
& Co. v. Jamna Flour Mills Co. Ltd. , AIR 1914 Bom 195, wherein
the Court observed that if the courts had no power to grant an
interlocutory injunction it would be in power of a party to cause
insufferable inconvenience and grave injury to another during the
whole time that would elapse between the commission of the wrongful
act and the hearing of the suit filed to remedy the wrong and redress
the injury. 6.7 Mr. Nigam stated that the Supreme Court has also in fact in the
judgment of Dorab Cawasji Warden v. Comi Sorab Warden & Ors. ,
(1990) 2 SCC 117, inter-alia held as under: 6.8 On the stand of the respondent that specific relief cannot be
granted to the petitioner in view of Section 41 (e) of the SRA, as it is
submitted by Nigam that the respondent has failed to identify which O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 65/148 contract or which contractual obligation the petitioner is seeking
specific performance of. Rather, the respondent has created an
imaginary case for the petitioner and has then dealt with its
submissions. Further, he also stated that the SRA does not operate to
disentitle the petitioner from seeking performance of his rights under
the Partnership Act (Reference: Section 3 of the SRA). On similar
lines the Apex Court in Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Kamlekar
Shantaram Wadke , (1976) 1 SCC 496, on Section 38 (1) of the SRA
had inter alia observed that a perpetual injunction may be granted to
the plaintiff to prevent the breach of an obligation existing in his
favour irrespective of the fact whether the obligation arises at common
law, under a contract or under a special statute and that Section 38(3) provides for grant of an injunction when the act of the defendant
invades, or threatens to invade the plaintiff‟s right to, or enjoyment of
property. 6.9 Mr. Nigam, additionally on the jurisdiction of this Court to
grant interim relief, submitted that while the disputes and differences
have arisen pursuant to the Deed, the injunction sought is primarily to (i) protect the petitioner‟s statutory rights as a partner, protect his right
to, and enjoyment of partnership property; and (ii) to enforce the
obligations of the respondent in common law and equity that have
been defined under the Partnership Act , and not any specific
obligation of the respondent under the partnership contract. This Court
has the jurisdiction to grant this relief to protect the Petitioner‟s rights
and enforce the respondent‟s obligations. He has also pointed to a
judgment of this Court in Suresh Kumar Sanghi & Ors. v. Amrit
Kumar Sanghi & Sons , 1983 (4) DRJ 186, wherein the Court had O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 66/148 specifically rejected the contention that an injunction cannot be
granted to prevent the breach of a contract in the context of a
partnership. 6.10 In fact, he stated that the relief that the petitioner is seeking
ought to be distinguished from the performance of a contract; as
primarily he is seeking enforcement of a statutory right conferred on a
partner under the Partnership Act as per Section 33 which prohibits
expulsion of a partner without compliance of mandatory requirements
of that provision and secondly, a partnership contract leads to a
relationship between partners which is distinct from the contract itself.
6.11 Without prejudice to the above, it is stated by Mr. Nigam that
the relief sought by the petitioner is not barred even under Section 41 (e) of the SRA, as provisions barring specific performances in cases
where compensation is adequate relief have been specifically deleted.
He also stated that the legal consequences where a deed is terminated
and the Delhi Corporate Firm is dissolved are accounts have to be
settled amongst the partners and the status of a partner is not affected,
which is clearly distinct from the termination of a contract. Thus, the
principle that a terminated contract cannot be restored in exercise of
powers under Section 9 of the Act of 1996 has no bearing in the facts
of the present case, on the relief sought by a partner claiming to be
wrongfully expelled. Moreover, the respondent‟s argument that a
terminated contract cannot be revived under a Section 9 petition and
that under Section 14 of the SRA, a determinable contract cannot be
specifically enforced is also misconceived for the reason that it is the
respondent‟s specific case that the Deed has not been terminated.
6.12 On the respondent‟s stand that the Court granting an injunction O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 67/148 would amount to the Court requiring the Court to run the affairs of the
law firm, it is stated that is nothing more than an argument of
prejudice. 6.13 Mr. Nigam, on the submissions of Mr.Tripathi that the „equity
partners‟ inducted by the respondent are not partners of the firm,
additionally submitted, Clause 7D, which clearly provides that
partners can only be inducted with the unanimous consent of both the
petitioner and the respondent, is in tune with Section 31(1) of the
Partnership Act. The underlying rationale of this rule is also based on
agency- every partner of the firm is an agent of every other partner and
can bind other partners and the firm through his actions. It stands to
reason that a person would never make another person his agent and
create binding obligations for him and the wider firm, unless he has
full faith in the person sought to be admitted as a partner. Only for this
reason, without consent of all the partners, an outsider cannot be
admitted to the partnership. This view, according to him, has been
approved by the Division Bench of this Court in the judgment of Additional Commissioner of Income-Tax v. Sunder Lal Banwari Lal ,
(1985) 156 ITR 617, wherein it stated that the foundation of the
partnership is mutual confidence and for this reason the introduction is
by agreement. He also stated on the second component of Clause 7D
of the Deed that the induction having not been agreed to by the
petitioner, the nominee of the respondent would only be entitled to
receive a portion of the profits from respondent‟s percentage interest
from the accrued profits of respondent after finalisation of profit and
loss account for each accounting year. The losses would have to be
contributed by respondent. The nominees will also not have any rights O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 68/148 in the management of the Delhi Corporate Firm. He submitted that
such a nominee does not become a partner of the Delhi Corporate Firm
as this would be contrary to the first part of the said Clause and Section 31 of the Partnership Act. 6.14 It is further submitted by him that this unilateral act of the
respondent whereby the nominee becomes entitled to receive a portion
of the accrued profits from respondent‟s percentage interest, is at best
a right created in favour of the third-party under Section 29 of the
Partnership Act. Section 29 of the Partnership Act falls under Chapter
IV of the Act , which is titled as „Relations of Partners to Third Parties‟
and not under Chapter V, which is titled as „Incoming and Outgoing
Partners‟. It is important to note that Section 31 of the Act, which
provides for induction of new partners, falls under Chapter V. Such
beneficiaries of economic interest are recognised as third parties in
relation to partners under the law of partnership. In support of his
contention, he has relied upon a judgment of the Patna High Court in Ram Prasad Singh v. Shivanandan Misra , AIR 1963 Pat 149,
wherein the Court inter alia held that that assignment of the interest in
a partnership does not ipso facto entitle the transferee to become a
partner in the firm and that if a person has been inducted with the
consent of all partners, he is merely a transferee of interest with very
limited rights, and is only entitled to claim a share of the profit to
which the transferring partner is otherwise entitled to.
6.15 Mr. Nigam also submitted that the third component of Clause
7D provides that if the respondent‟s nominee has been a part of the
Delhi Corporate Firm for five continuous years, such person may be
admitted to the partnership with management rights that have been O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 69/148 unanimously agreed upon. It does not provide that such person can be
admitted to the benefits of partnership unilaterally by the respondent.
According to him, this component is an extension of the second
component, which requires unanimous consent for induction of new
partners. Since the petitioner did not grant his agreement (but
expressly opposed it), the alleged partners are mere individuals who
are transferees of economic interest under the second component. In
law, even for being admitted to the benefits of partnership, the consent
of all partners is required, and this is not subject to a contract to the
contrary; Arguendo, a person admitted to the benefits of partnership
(which is under chapter IV „Relations of Partners to Third Parties‟), is
clearly not a partner. Section 30 of the Partnership Act, provides that
minors can be admitted to the benefits of a partnership, with the
consent of all partners for the time being. 6.16 Mr. Nigam on demurrer, submitted that at best, the two alleged
partners are partners of a sub-partnership with respondent, which sub-
partnership is separate, distinct and independent of the partnership
firm, L&L Partners, New Delhi, between petitioner and respondent.
This concept of a sub-partnership has been recognised by a Full Bench
of the Supreme Court in CIT v. B. Posetty & Co. , (1996) 11 SCC 11,
wherein the Court held that the sub-partnership is a distinct and
different firm. It is a one recognised by law and it is not a partnership
with the main firm. It will not have the effect of making the partners in
the sub-partnership, partners of the main firm.
6.17. Therefore, in substance on the induction of the new equity
partners, Mr. Nigam submitted that when the Respondent „terminated‟
the petitioner on 13.10.2020 (assuming that such course of action is O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 70/148 permissible), the Delhi Corporate Firm, being a two-member
partnership, automatically dissolved. No provision in the partnership
deed can override this position in law. The Firm, under no
circumstances, could have continued to the exclusion of the petitioner,
if his termination is valid (which is vehemently disputed). He also
submitted that the view that any form of exit of a partner from a two-
member partnership will resulting an automatic dissolution of the
Firm, has been approved on numerous occasions by the Supreme
Court. Further, he stated, this position is valid even if the partnership
deed provides otherwise. In such a case, until dissolution is completed,
the Petitioner has the right to continue as partner under Section 47 of
the Partnership Act till the winding up of the Firm is complete. The
Court may appoint an administrator/receiver to oversee dissolution.
Further, during the dissolution process, the Respondent cannot
appropriate joint properties of the partnership for his sole benefit. 6.18 To buttress the same, he has relied upon a Supreme Court
judgment in the case of CIT v. Seth Govindram Sugar Mills , (1965) 3
SCR 488, wherein the Supreme Court held that if one of the only two
partners in a firm dies, the firm automatically comes to end. If
pursuant to the wishes of the deceased partner or the agreement
between the parties, the heir of the deceased partner replaces him in
the partnership with the surviving partner, then that would constitute a
new partnership. In fact, Mr. Nigam points out that the respondent has
admitted to this position in reply at paragraph 48 at page 23, where
respondent stated if he retired on October 12, 2020, the firm stands
automatically dissolved. 6.19 Rebutting the stand of the respondent Mr. Nigam submitted that O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 71/148 respondent‟s argument that the prayers of the petitioner are contrary to Section 41 read with Section 14 of the SRA is also relevant in this
context, as it fails to consider that the Petitioner is not merely seeking
an enforcement of his statutory right under Section 33 of the
Partnership Act (and right to continue as a partner under the
Partnership Deed), but is in fact also seeking to enforce his statutory
rights under Section 47 of the Partnership Act. Because the Firm is
only a two-member firm and the necessary and automatic consequence
of expulsion of one partner is dissolution. Under Section 47 , the
actions of a partner of a firm that has been dissolved can bind another
partner in relation to transactions that have begun but remain
unfinished at the time of the dissolution. 6.20 Mr. Nigam rebutting the stand taken by the respondent that the
conduct of the petitioner does not entitle him for any relief as prayed
for in the petition, stated that the petitioner has never conducted in a
manner that would disentitle him from claiming equitable relief. He
also stated that even though the respondent has repeatedly alleged that
the petitioner has leaked confidential information to the press as well
as made a part of the Court pleadings is concerned, the respondent has
nowhere placed anything on record in support of his allegation other
than his own speculations. In fact, it was the respondent who had on
various occasions posted public comments about the disputes that exist
between himself and the petitioner on equity dilution, even by issuing
an unilateral statement. 6.21 It is also stated by Mr. Nigam that the petitioner had in fact
during the „townhall‟ conducted by Zoom on September 24, 2020 had
repeatedly warned the respondent that the discussions could make O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 72/148 their way to the press. He has pointed out the relevant excerpts of the
Townhall meeting in support of his contention. He also stated that it
was respondent himself who had no objection in bringing the
discussion regarding equity dilution before a larger fora and insisted
upon sharing the entire details regarding the same with the entire
„Corporate Partners Group‟. Whereas the petitioner was always
diligent and gave prudence to keeping discussions and information
private. 6.22 The claim that confidential information was made part of the
documents filed in the Court, according to Mr. Nigam, is without merit
as there is no breach of confidentiality. There is no provision of law
which supports the claim of the respondent. The Whatsapp messages
are filed owing to its importance as evidence, as bulk of the
communications between the salary partners and also the EC for the
L&L Firms are carried out via Whatsapp. In fact, the respondent
himself has relied on these messages and even sent formal notices of
dissolution of partnership deed on January 6, 2020 by means of
Whatsapp messages. Mr. Nigam to cement the submission has relied
upon a Supreme Court Judgment in the case of Ambalal Sarabhai v.
KS Infraspace , 2020 5 SCC 410, wherein the Court has clearly
recognized the evidentiary value of Whatsapp messages and relied
upon it to establish the existence of a contract between the parties in a
Suit for Specific Performance. 6.23 Moreover, Mr. Nigam also went on to state that the assertion
about the conduct of the petitioner „unbecoming of a lawyer‟ during
the course of oral arguments is also without any merit as the said
phrase in the definition of „material breach‟ under Clause 8(b) of the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 73/148 partnership deed has been used specifically in the context of applicable
Code of Conduct. Therefore, the usage of unbecoming of a lawyer
cannot be given nebulous and overarching meaning.
6.24 On the acceptance of notice of withdrawal of respondent by the
petitioner vide its communication dated October 12, 2020 is not in bad
faith, as according to Mr. Nigam, the same is primarily because
respondent has not chosen to seek any protection from the same and in
any case as per the Partnership Act , if a partner seeks to put an end to
the partnership there are only two options, (1) retirement and (2)
dissolution. Clause 7E and Clause 8 of the partnership deed reflects
retirement and termination / dissolution respectively.
6.25 Therefore, in the absence of requisites under sub-cluse (b), (c)
and (d) to Clause 8, the firm can only be dissolved either under Clause
8(a), i.e., unanimous agreement or under Clause 8(e) pertaining to
retirement or withdrawal. Thus, it is stated by Mr. Nigam that since it
is not the case of the respondent that petitioner withdrew from the
firm, respondent could not dissolve the firm on that ground and
therefore, the only option for the respondent to unilaterally terminate
the partnership deed was to withdraw from the firm in accordance with
the Clause 7E. 6.26 Mr. Nigam also stated that the respondent was trying to put to
an end the partnership by first unanimously seeking an agreement
between the parties to dissolve the firm which was refuted by the
petitioner. In this regard, he has drawn the attention of this Court to
communications exchanged between the petitioner and respondent
amongst themselves as well as the communications by both of them in
the Senior Partners Group on December 29, 2019. Additionally, the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 74/148 Whatsapp messages exchanged between the parties on January 6,
2020, January 7, 2020, April 4, 2020, May 28, 2020, June 29, 2020,
June 30, 2020 and August 30, 2020; transcripts of the „townhall‟
meeting on Zoom (at Page 694 Volume-4) as well as message of one
of the partners on the EC on February 21, 2020 (at Page 330, Volume- 2). Relying on these communication, Mr. Nigam stated that it was
respondent who was unwilling to work with the petitioner and who
expressed his intent to leave the Delhi Corporate Firm.
6.27 Mr. Nigam has also adopted the argument of Mr. Tripathi on the
nature of relief sought as well as on the petitioner establishing a prima
facie case and having a balance of convenience in his favour and on
suffering irreparable loss and injury if reliefs prayed for are not
granted. 6.28 On the misjoinder and non-joinder objections raised on behalf
of the respondent during the course of oral arguments, it is stated by
Mr. Nigam that in addition to an oral statement being made restricting
the present petition to Delhi Corporate Firm a statement was also
made at paragraph 4 of the rejoinder. He also stated that the two
partners alleged to have been inducted by the respondent are neither
necessary nor proper parties as it is the petitioner‟s consistent case that
they are not partners of the firm under the partnership deed and are
transferees of respondent‟s interest in terms of Section 29 of the
Partnership Act. Moreover, the alleged partners are not parties to the
arbitration agreement between the petitioner and the respondent.
Similarly, on the non-joinder of 23 other partners with whom the
petitioner has constituted / re-constituted the firm are partners under a
separate partnership contract with no relationship with the respondent O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 75/148 and no relief is sought in respect of them. 7. Mr. Pramod Nair, learned counsel also appearing on behalf of
the petitioner in addition to the submissions made by Mr. Tripathi and
Mr. Nigam has at the outset stated that his submissions would be
limited to giving a summary of the factual background in which the
current dispute has arisen. According to him, the respondent has
sought to create a false and deeply malicious narrative about the
petitioner to distract from his illegal actions. According to him, there
are two primary assets for a law firm viz. (1) the people who worked
at the firm and (2) the clients they service. And the best law firms are
the one that attract the best and brightest lawyers and thereby provide
high quality of service and legal assistance to the clients. Conversely,
he stated if a firm is not able to attract and retain high quality talent,
best and bright lawyers leave the firm forcing the clients to look for
alternative options. 7.1 Mr. Nair stated, retaining good quality lawyers has been a
problem for the Delhi Corporate Firm for a number of years now.
Whilst it had 200+ lawyers, it had only two equity partners leaving the
young bright lawyers with no stake in the partnership or any real say
in the management of the firm, which was a simply an unsustainable
model compared to other law firms run across the world / country.
7.2 To address this issue by broad basing the equity of the firm,
discussions had been happening between the petitioner and the
respondent for years together. All attempts for effectively
implementing the same was stonewalled by the respondent, leaving the
salaried partners, dissatisfied and frustrated.
7.3 He submitted, this resulted in a spate of senior level departures, O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 76/148 plunging the firm into a real crisis. By drawing the attention of the
Court to various Whatsapp messages exchanged between the petitioner
and the respondent particularly on July 8, 2019, July 9, 2019, July 10,
2019, July 21, 2019, December 4, 2019, December 5, 2019, December
6, 2019, January 21, 2020, May 3, 2020, June 3, 2020, August 11,
2020, August 12, 2020; he stated that the petitioner‟s only focus was
to professionalize the firm and never to oust the respondent herein.
7.4 Mr. Nair submitted that in fact, a vast majority of the other
salaried partners of the firm supported the petitioner‟s efforts to reform
and professionalize the firm. This he says, by referring to
communications exchanged on the Corporate Partners‟ Group, which,
according to him, are relevant to gauge the frustration of young
lawyers and high-performing partners with lack of commitment of
respondent in performing such urgently needed reform. In particular,
he refers to messages in the Corporate Partners Group by certain
partners on July 31, 2020, August 1, 2020. Mr. Nair further stated that
the fight was always in the context of differences between the parties
to professionalize the firm and the various equity proposals submitted
by respondent was never found acceptable by the members of the EC.
Repeatedly respondent used to call upon the petitioners and the EC to
work out the numbers that would be paid to him since his proposals
were not accepted. The respondent also dangled the threat of
dissolution of the firm, having issued a dissolution notice while
negotiating for acceptance of his equity dissolution proposals or exit
plan. 7.5 Mr. Nair also submitted in detail the various proposals put forth
by the respondent and rejected by the EC members as according to O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 77/148 them those were nothing but self-serving proposals completely
contrary to market standards. The stand taken by the respondent that it
was the petitioner who was unwilling to dilute equity proportionally is
belied as the proportionate equity dilution was never the issue and in
fact respondent himself acknowledged in his proposals that his equity
dilution should be greater. Mr. Nair has in particular drawn the
attention to certain communications exchanged in the EC Whatsapp
group by various partners in the firm at Page nos. 330, 331, 362, 364,
365, 385, 390, 395 and 398 of Volume 2, Page nos. 444, 445, 446, 450
and 451 of Volume-3. 7.6 Being unable to muster support, it is stated by Mr.Nair, the
respondent parallelly was calling upon the petitioner to indicate the
amount that the petitioner would pay him for retiring from the firm.
He also stated that it was in this regard that the dissolution notices
were being extended from time to time to basically coerce everyone
into either giving the respondent huge payout as his equity dilution
proposals were not finding acceptance. In this regard, he has drawn
the attention of this Court to Whatsapp messages exchanged between
the petitioner and respondent on January 16, 2020, January 21, 2020,
January 26, 2020 and May 28, 2020. He also referred to
communications exchanged by members of the Executive Committee /
corporate partners in the Whatsapp group on April 25, 2020, July 29,
2020, September 18, 2020 to buttress his submission that even the
Executive Committee members en-block expressed dissatisfaction that
how the respondent threatened dissolution and gave non-serious
proposals. 7.7 In addition to adopting the arguments made by Mr. Tripathi and O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 78/148 Mr. Nigam on prima facie case and balance of convenience and
irreparable injury being suffered by the petitioner, Mr. Nair stated that
the removal of the petitioner from the Delhi Corporate Firm is not in
accordance with the provisions of the deed and applicable law which
establishes a prima facie case in his favour. 7.8 On the balance of convenience in favour of ordering restoration
of the status quo ante failing which irreparable injury will be caused to
the petitioner and other stakeholders of the partnership firm, it is stated
by Mr. Nair that unlike the respondent the petitioner played a hands-on
role in the day-to-day management of the firm in addition to servicing
the clients. It is undisputed that the petitioner has been completely
blocked from accessing his e-mails and confidential data entrusted to
him by the clients and in fact even prevented from entering the
premises of the Delhi Corporate Firm on instructions from respondent.
This has virtually prevented the petitioner from servicing clients in on-
going matters personally supervised by him. In addition, the petitioner
being a partner of Delhi Corporate Firm since 1999, longstanding
clients expect him to personally attend to their work which is also
prevented. 7.9 It is stated by Mr. Nair that currently the Delhi Corporate Firm
is being unilaterally managed by the respondent and if the petitioner is
not allowed access to the Delhi Corporate Firm assets, his clients and
since there exist a dispute as to who is the surviving partner, there is
an imminent risk that the respondent may dispose of the assets of the
firm or act to the detriment of those clients who are brought to the
Delhi firm by the petitioner. This would in turn result in irreparable
damage to the interest of the clients as well as on the revenue and O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 79/148 goodwill of the Delhi Corporate Firm. It is, therefore, in the interest of
both parties as well as the lawyers, clients and employees of Delhi
Corporate Firm that the status quo ante as it existed prior to October
12, 2020 is restored. He has also distinguished the judgments relied
upon by the respondent. 8. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul,
learned Senior Counsels appearing on behalf of the respondent
(„Counsels for the respondent‟, for short) have raised a preliminary
objection on to the maintainability of the present petition. This, they
say so owing to (a) non-joinder of necessary parties; (b) non-existence
of arbitration agreement with the 23 persons purportedly inducted by
the petitioner; (c) reliefs sought pertains to firms other than the Delhi
Corporate Firm and; (d) mis-joinder of parties.
8.1 On the primary ground of non-joinder of necessary parties, it is
stated by Counsels for the respondent that the respondent has
admittedly inducted two partners in exercise of his rights under Clause
7D of the Deed. This was pursuant to his announcement (email) on
October 4, 2020 that he genuinely intends to expand the equity
partnership and would as a first step induct new partners on a certain
criterion. It was also stated by the respondent in the said email that if
the step/suggestion was not acceptable to the petitioner, then he would
induct the persons as equity partners by parting with his own equity
alone. 8.2 However, the petitioner refused to go with the plan and
communicated the same vide email dated October 05, 2020.
Subsequently, respondent inducted two new equity partners and the
same was announced to the entire firm vide email dated October 10, O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 80/148 2020. It is stated by Counsels for the respondent that the petitioner was
aware of these events and have in fact admitted the same in the
petition. Moreover, it is stated by them that this decision has not been
challenged by the petitioner and the said two partners continue to be
the equity partners of the Delhi Corporate Firm. And, according to
Counsels for the respondent, any decision in the present Section 9 petition under the Act of 1996 would materially affect the rights of the
two new equity partners and therefore are necessary and proper parties
to the present proceedings. It is further submitted by them, the plea of
the petitioner that the Delhi Corporate Firm stood dissolved on the
termination of the petitioner is entirely false, in law and on facts; as
Clause 7D of Deed provides the power to respondent to induct
partners parting within his equity, if the petitioner does not agree to
the induction of new partners. Thus, respondent having inducted new
partners under Clause 7D, prior to the termination of the petitioner, the
Delhi Corporate Firm survives. In this regard they have relied upon the
relevant portion of the said clause which reads as under: 8.3 Further, Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Kaul stated that the Deed
contemplates two types of equity partnerships, i.e., partnership with
management rights and that without it. The question about the extent
of management rights will be jointly decided by the petitioner and the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 81/148 respondent and till such time the new inductees shall remain as the
equity partners without management rights. 8.4 On the plea of the petitioner that the induction of the new
partners can only be a sub-partnership, it is submitted by the Counsels
for the respondent that it was only during the course of rebuttal
submissions that the petitioner raised this plea and the same never
formed part of the written pleadings. Even otherwise according to
them, a sub-partnership by respondent parting with his equity is not
one which is contemplated under the Deed in which case the Deed
would not have contemplated granting rights to manage the Delhi
Corporate Firm. They also went on state that the reliance placed by the
petitioner on Section 31 of the Partnership Act is belied owing to the
fact the said provision contemplates and is „subject to contract
between the parties‟ and the whole Section is on the induction of
partners with the consent of other partners. In other words, they justify
the right of the respondent to induct partners unilaterally under Clause
7D. 8.5 On the non-existence of arbitration agreement with the 23
purportedly inducted partners by the petitioner, it is stated by Counsels
for the respondent that there is no privity of contract between the
respondent and the alleged 23 partners of the Delhi Corporate Firm.
As per the petition, the petitioner has claimed relief for himself as well
as for the other 23 new equity partners and no relief can be granted to
protect them in present Section 9 proceedings as there exist no
arbitration agreement between the respondent and these 23 persons.
They also stated that the petitioner in his rejoinder has altered his stand
by stating as follows: This according to the Counsels for the respondent is nothing but
resorting to contrary stands in the petition and rejoinder or orally
altering what has been put down in writing in the pleadings when the
petitioner realizes untenability of his arguments and the same should
not be permitted by this Court. 8.6 Even otherwise, Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Kaul submitted that the
petitioner has no right to induct any person as a partner under the Deed
without the consent of respondent who is the managing partner.
Without prejudice, they also stated that if the respondent had retired,
the Delhi Corporate Firm would have stood dissolved and hence there
is no question of inducting new partners into the said firm.
8.7 The Counsels for the respondent submitted that the petition is in
fact not maintainable for the reliefs sought also pertains to firms other
than the Delhi Corporate Firm. In particular, they have drawn the
attention of the Court to prayers (f), (g) and (l) which according to
them relate to Delhi Litigation Firm and Mumbai Corporate Firm and
there being three different firms (L & L Firms), including the Delhi
Corporate Firm, are governed by three different agreements. The
nature of partnership and the partners of the L& L Firms are different
which extends to the cause of action and rights under the different
deeds. 8.8 On the misjoinder of parties, Counsels for the respondent stated
that the petitioner has included certain employees of the Delhi
Corporate Firm who are neither partners of the L& L Firms nor parties O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 83/148 to the agreement and when an argument objecting to the same is
raised, a mere oral request was sought on behalf of the petitioner to
delete these parties, which according to them is not tenable.
8.9 As a second limb of their argument, Counsels for the respondent
stated that the petitioner is not entitled to seek a stay because he has
prayed for the grant of a new status quo which cannot be granted by
this Court in a petition under Section 9 of the Act of 1996. In
particular, they have drawn the attention of this Court to prayers (b), (c), (d), (e), (l) and (m) to contend, the petitioner in addition to seeking
a stay on termination has sought for prayers which are cumulative in
nature and the same amounts to ousting the respondent from the Delhi
Corporate Firm. Therefore, according to Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Kaul the
prayer sought is neither status quo nor status quo ante, but totally a
new state of affairs which are also in the nature of final relief. In
support of their submission, they have relied upon the judgment in the
case of Nandan Pictures Ltd v. Art Pictures Ltd. , 1956 SCC OnLine
Cal 36, wherein the Calcutta High Court held that if at all a mandatory
injunction is granted, it should be to restore the status quo (if justified
in the facts of the case) and not to create a new state of things. He also
relied on Samay Singh v. M/s. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation
Ltd, 2012 SCC OnLine All 1253, wherein it was held, reliefs which
cannot be granted as final reliefs cannot be granted as interim reliefs
either. 8.10 It is stated by Counsels for the respondent that when confronted
with this argument, the petitioner has once again altered its stand
during the course of oral submissions and sought to pray that he is
only seeking a stay on termination. The same according to them O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 84/148 cannot be permitted as (i) this is not a case where petitioner has sought
alternate relief and is now choosing to press one over the other, rather
the prayers made are cumulative; (ii) the basis of the petition is that
the firm continues with petitioner and 23 new partners and therefore
the petitioner doing a complete volte-face and seeking to contend that
he wants to merely stand on his termination; (iii) petitioner states that
no amicable resolution is possible and admits that he agreed to parting
of ways; (iv) it is the petitioner‟s case that the respondent has retired
and in any event continuance of respondent is not in interest of the
firm; and (v) the petitioner is distributed the equity of the respondent
to 23 new persons. This being the case of the petitioner, oral request
made on his behalf for limiting the interim relief to bring him back
into the firm and work with the respondent while disputes are resolved
through arbitration is wholly inconsistent with each other.
8.11 In support of their second limb, they also stated that no interim
relief can be granted in view of Section 41 (e) of the SRA. Counsels
for the respondent stated that the said Section stipulates, an injunction
cannot be granted to prevent the breach of contract which would not
be specifically enforced. Without prejudice to the fact that termination
was not in breach of the Deed, it is stated that in the present case, the
injunction of stay on termination sought by the petitioner cannot be
granted if the Court would not otherwise grant specific performance of
the Deed. 8.12 In furtherance they stated that as per Section 14(d) of the SRA,
a contract which is by nature determinable cannot be specifically
enforced and in the present case Clause 7A (1) and Clause 8 read with
Clauses 5, 9 and 10 make it amply clear that the Deed is terminable. Reliance has been placed on the following 1. Rajasthan Breweries Ltd. v. The Stroh Brewery
 Company , AIR 2000 Delhi 450, 2. Turnaround Logistics (P) Ltd v. Jet Airways
 (India) Ltd. & Ors., MANU/DE/8741/2006 3. M/s Bharat Catering Corporation v. Indian
 Railway Catering & Tourism Corp. Ltd. , 2009
 SCC OnLineDel 1606 4. Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corp. Ltd. v. Cox & Kings India Ltd., (2012) 186 DLT 552
 (DB)

8.13 Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Kaul by relying upon Section 14 (b) of the
SRA also submitted that a contract requiring the performance of a
continuous duty which the Court will not be able to supervise cannot
be specifically enforced. In the present case, according to them, the
partnership requires the two parties to work together and run the firm
requiring the cooperation and performance of continuous duties and
the Court cannot be called upon to supervise such continuous actions
in day-to-day performance of duties. In this regard, he has relied upon
the Judgments of this Court in Indian Railway Catering & Tourism
Corp. Ltd. (supra); Hejian Solidkey Petroleum Machinery Co. Ltd. v.
Indian Oil Corporation , 2015 SCC OnLine Del 10770.
8.14 They have also drawn the attention of this Court to Section 14 (c) of the SRA where the performance of the contract depends on the
personal qualifications and volition of the parties, it cannot be
specifically enforced. He stated that both parties have made it clear
that they cannot work with each other as both of them have contended
that continuance of the other party is not in the best interests of the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 86/148 firm. This being the mutual case, the Court should not make the
parties to work with each other. Moreover, a partner is the agent of
other partners and attempting to bring back the petitioner as a partner
would force the respondent to also treat the petitioner as his agent and
the respondent will have to be bound by the petitioner‟s action. This
cannot be done when there is no volition to work with each other. In
support of his submission, he has relied upon Judgments of Delhi and
Bombay High Courts in Marriott International Inc. v. Ansal Hotels
Ltd. , 1999 SCC OnLine 716 and Ramchandra Lalbhai & Anr. v.
Chinubhai Lalbhai, AIR 1944 Bom 76. 8.15 Section 16 (b) of the SRA has also been relied upon by the
Counsels for the respondent to state that specific performance will not
be granted in favour of a person who violates essential terms or acts in
variance of the contract. According to them the petitioner has on
various occasions offered to leave the firm; consented to parting ways,
breached the deed himself by purporting to retire the respondent
(which is not permitted under the deed), and thereafter gone ahead and
distributed the equity of the respondent to 23 other persons in
complete contravention to the very terms of the deed which he seeks to
enforce by seeking a stay of termination. In support of their
contention, they have relied upon the judgments of this Court in Rajeev Mehra v. Sudhir Kumar Sachdev , 2009 ( 109) DRJ 84 and
J.L. Gugnani (HUF) v. O.P. Arora , 2011 SCC OnLine Del 4221.
8.16 Counsels for the respondent also submitted that in the present
case, the petitioner has all throughout acted in bad faith contrary to the
correspondence exchanged between the parties and even purported to
retire the respondent which was not only contrary to the record but O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 87/148 also not permissible under the deed. In this regard, they have drawn
the attention of the Court to the letter (email) dated October 12, 2020
issued by the petitioner wherein the petitioner stated that the
retirement of the respondent was w.e.f from the said date. In the
rejoinder to the present petition, the petitioner states that the retirement
of the respondent relates back to the respondent‟s communications
without clearly specifying the date. This, according to Counsels for
the respondent, is nothing but contradiction in the claims of the
petitioner. The reason for this contradiction is stated to be the reply of
the respondent to the October 12, 2020 letter of the petitioner wherein
the respondent categorically stated that induction of new partners by
petitioner alone was not possible as respondent was also a partner till
then. Moreover, the stand of the petitioner that the material breaches
committed by the respondent under Clause 8 (b) entitles him to
terminate the Deed with the respondent is also clearly fallacious, as
Clause 8 of the deed clearly entitles the respondent to terminate the
Deed. Therefore, according to them, the petitioner in totally self-
contradictory fashion contends on one hand that if the termination of
the petitioner is to be accepted, the Delhi Corporate Firm would stand
dissolved and its assets cannot be appropriated till proper dissolution is
effected whereas on the other hand, the petitioner does not
acknowledge that if indeed the respondent stood retired from the date
of his communication, the Delhi Corporate Firm should be dissolved
and he could not have distributed the equity of the respondent to the
alleged 23 partners. These actions / contradictory stands taken by the
petitioner, according to Counsels for the respondent attracts Section
41(i) of the SRA which stipulates that no injunction will be granted in O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 88/148 favour of a person whose contract disentitle such relief. In this regard,
he has relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in Gujarat
Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co. , (1995) 5 SCC 545.
8.17 They also stated that the petitioner will not suffer any
irreparable loss of damage if the interim relief is not granted as he
would be entitled to claim of damages if the petitioner‟s termination is
found to be bad in law and the petitioner is within his right to practice
the profession of law during the pendency of the disputes. He would
not be however entitled to use the firms name, poach the retainers of
the firm or clients of the firm and neither is he entitled to any goodwill
payment in terms of Clause 5, 9 and 8. In any event, according to Dr.
Singhvi and Mr. Kaul, the issue about goodwill may be agitated by the
petitioner in arbitration proceedings. 8.18 As a third limb of their submissions, Counsels for the
respondent, on the facts of the case, have stated that the respondent has
not retired or withdrawn from the Delhi Corporate Firm. To establish
this contention, they have drawn the attention of this Court to
communications between the petitioner and the respondent that all
throughout, the respondent‟s action was of terminating the petitioner
from the partnership and himself continuing with the Delhi Corporate
Firm. In particular, they relied upon the notice to terminate the
partnership issued on January 6, 2020, which according to them,
clearly calls for termination of Delhi Corporate Firm and dissolution
of Mumbai Corporate Firm and clearly proceeds on the basis that the
petitioner has acceded to the termination of partnership.
Communication between the parties on January 9, 2020, January 12,
2020 (wherein the petitioner admits that the respondent had written O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 89/148 about the terminating the partnership he had agreed), January 26, 2020
(wherein the respondent refers to the misconduct of the petitioner etc.
and specifically makes it clear that respondent is exercising its right to
terminate the partnership with petitioner and he will continue with the
firm), May 4, 2020, August 8, 2020 (wherein the petitioner makes it
clear that all offers are on the table and in order to induct more equity
persons he will dilute 20% of its equity and the petitioner is also
bound to dilute proportionately under the deed), September 13, 2020
(wherein the respondent‟s intention of rebutting the firm and those
who do not agree with him are free to leave the firm were made clear).
The communication on September 13, 2020 as stated above has been
construed rightly by the petitioner as is evident from paragraph 43 of
the petition. 8.19 Counsels for the respondent has also stated that the petitioner
tried to present a misleading picture that the respondent had offered to
retire during the „Townhall‟ meeting on September 24, 2020. This was
vehemently objected by the respondent and the other partners of the
Delhi Litigation Firm. They have also relied upon the communication
between the parties on October 4,2020 and October 10, 2020 to state
that the respondent had made his intention clear to broad base the
equity partnership. Moreover, it is submitted, that the petitioner
himself had admitted in the petition that the respondent extended the
90 days termination notice from time to time on four different
occasions. A reading of these various communications makes it clear
that the respondent had made clear his intention to not retire before the
age of 75 as well as his various plans to dilute the equity to suggest
that there is no question of respondent withdrawing or retiring from O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 90/148 the firm. In fact, it is submitted by the Counsels for the respondent
that even the petitioner understood the correspondences to mean that
that the respondent is terminating the petitioner and the same has been
admitted in various paragraphs of the petition (35 & 43). The October
12, 2020 letter issued by the petitioner is nothing but a deliberate
misconstruction of the correspondence exchanged between the parties.
8.20 Counsels for the respondent also made it clear that the
respondent has not withdrawn or retired from the firm and the
allegation that the respondent had indicated / said that he will retire is
nothing but the petitioner picking a few messages of the respondent
out of context to put wholly untenable twist to the respondent‟s
intention. By relying upon communications between the parties on
January 7, 2020, January 12, 2020, January 16, 2020, Counsels for the
respondent contend that the communications clearly do not reveal the
respondent‟s intention to retire and the perusal of the entire
communications of said dates clearly reveals the same as against the
petitioner interpretation by merely reading parts of it.
8.21 As the fourth head of their arguments, Counsels for the
respondent have stated that the respondent has power under the Deed
to terminate the petitioner. In this regard, they stated that a reading of
all the Clauses of the Deed including Clause 5 which talks about
„Leaving Amount‟ clearly states that in the title of the clause, it is
„Consideration for Non-Compete‟, contemplates respondent asking the
petitioner to leave the Delhi Corporate Firm. The relevant clause
which has been relied upon by them has been reproduced as under: 8.22 Similarly, Clause 7A of the deed which deals with the „Decision
Making‟, while dealing with the right of the respondent to render final
and binding decision, specifically stipulates that this power extends to
„......termination, performance review of partners....‟. This also
according to Counsels for the respondent clearly contemplates that the
respondent has the right to take final and binding decisions including
termination of partners. The petitioner has in fact admitted that the
respondent has right to terminate under Clause 7A of the Deed (page
588 / Docs. Vol. 3). He also relied upon Clause 8 of the Deed which
grants the respondent the right to terminate or dissolve the partnership.
Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Kaul went on to submit that termination of Deed
stands apart from dissolution and whenever any party to a partnership
deed leaves the firm for any reason, the said partnership deed stands
terminated and a fresh reconstitution has to take place, making
termination of Deed not equivalent to dissolution of a firm. Counsels
for the respondent also stated that Clause 8 (b), (c), (d) and (e) of the
Deed which talks about termination of the Deed due to a party
breaching terms or being declared bankrupt or dying etc. make it clear
that Clause 8 is not just for dissolution but also for reconstitution of
the Deed on any partner being terminated, leaving or dying etc. They
further stated that material breach or bankruptcy of an individual was
obviously not intended to result in the dissolution of the firm but only
the partner concerned being terminated. Further, they also took aid of
Clause 9, 10 and 11.12 to state that termination of a partner under
Clause 8 is fortified by the said Clauses. In any event according to O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 92/148 them, the petitioner admitted that the respondent has power to
terminate under Clause 8 as per his pleading at Para 29 of the petition.
8.23 They in fact, vehemently contended that the argument of the
petitioner in rejoinder that there is only power to dissolve and not to
terminate a party and that the deed only talks of deed being terminated
is ex-facie false. Rather, he stated that the reading of the deed as a
whole and also usage of various of phrases like "terminated party" making it optional. Contrasted with the word "shall" used in the
beginning of the Clause, it is apparent that the notice was issued to
resolve the disputes was optional. In this regard, it is submitted that
notice dated January 6, 2020 read with subsequent correspondence is
the notice of 90 days as referred to in Clause 8 for termination and the
said notice at paragraph 5 stated that "and in any event admittedly no
further notice for termination needs to be given". The notice also
refers to discussions the parties have had previously and that no
amicable resolution could be arrived at, making it clear that the period
of amicable resolution was over. Despite this or the next 270 days, till
October 13, 2020 respondent gave more than ample opportunities to O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 94/148 the petitioner to sort out the issues. It is also submitted by Dr. Singhvi
and Mr. Kaul that the said notice had also referred to the conduct of
the petitioner and other various issues. Eventually, through subsequent
correspondence the respondent made it clear that he is terminating the
petitioner under his power under the deed and a perusal of the said
correspondence also make it clear that the petitioner was also aware of
the reasons for termination. To buttress his submission, they have
relied upon a judgment of the Chancery Division Court of Appeals in
the case of Green v. Howell, (1910) 1 Ch. 494, wherein the Court
inter alia held that where the notice to terminate did not give reasons
for terminating a partner, the same is not to the prejudice of the other
party as they were aware of the circumstances and the Court did not
strike down the notice for want of particulars. In the present case,
according to Counsels for the respondent, the contention of the
petitioner that the notice did not furnish particulars is entirely false, as
a notice refers to the disputes and issues between the parties. Without
prejudice, it is also submitted that in the event it is found that there
was deficiency in providing notice as contemplated under Clause 8 the
same entitles the petitioner to damages, if any, suffered as a
consequence thereof. 8.27 Further as their sixth submission, Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Kaul,
justifies the termination of the petitioner. In this regard, they have
relied upon the various Whatsapp communications exchanged between
the parties on December 28, 2019, December 6, 2019, January 1,
2020, January 7, 2020, January 16, 2020, January 26, 2020, March 14,
2020. Communications exchanged in the Whatsapp group in the
executive partners on May 4, 2020, communications exchanged in the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 95/148 corporate partners Whatsapp group on July 23, 2020, August 8, 2020,
August 24, 2020. In an open communication petitioner even went on
to seek an appraisal from the respondent which is clearly barred as per
Clause 7C of Deed. They pointed out that on September 23, 2020, the
respondent replied on the corporate partnership group that he has proof
against various allegations and false malicious campaigns. They also
pointed out that the petitioner has given false information in his
Linked in profile and even went on to accept one of his Whatsapp
communication with respondent on May 15, 2020 about his conduct
being rude. 8.28 According to Counsels for the respondent the above
communications which revealed facts about the conduct of the
petitioner, very well explain the circumstances under which the
respondent was constrained to terminate the petitioner. Further, even
as per Section 9 of the Partnership Act, partners must act in good faith
towards each other and there should be mutual trust and confidence;
which is lacking in the petitioner‟s conduct. Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Kaul
also stated that lot of new averments were made in the rejoinder such
as respondent was not willing to dilute his equity etc. which are false.
8.29 Counsels for the respondent, thus stated that the on the basis of
their submissions, it is clear that the respondent has not retired from
the Delhi Corporate Firm and in fact has the power to terminate the
petitioner under the Deed, which he has rightly exercised. On the
aspect of the Partnership Act , they again reiterated that the provisions
under the said Act are subject to the contract between the parties and
therefore the Deed should be given priority. In this regard, he has
anchored his submission on a judgment of this Court in M/s Bhagwan O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 96/148 Dass Khanna Jewellers v. Bhagwan Das Khanna Jewellers Pvt. Ltd. ,
2012 SCC Online Del 6129, wherein, the Court inter-alia held that the
relation between the partners in the partnership is a contractual one
and the same has been recognized by the Partnership Act under Section 42 . Similarly, he has also relied on Bombay High Court
judgment in Veena Nalin Merchant v. Laljee Godhoo & Co. , 2015
SCC Online Bom 2034. 8.30 Thus, they submitted that the Deed grants the respondent greater
powers than the petitioner, which is in fact permissible in law and the
rights of the parties are strictly to be governed by the Partnership
Deed. They also reiterated the contradictory nature of the arguments
put forth on behalf of the petitioner and also stated that pending the
decision of the arbitral tribunal, the respondent continues as partner
with the two new inductees and the petitioner should not be granted
the interim reliefs as prayed for. 9. It is also stated on behalf of the respondent that a new plea was
raised during arguments in rejoinder that L&L in the name of the firm
stands for „Lex and Legal‟. The submission made for the first-time
during rejoinder arguments and not on affidavit, is factually incorrect.
The origin of „L&L‟ is traceable and an acronym to „Luthra & Luthra‟
which name belongs to the respondent, in every sense possible. It is
also commonly understood within the legal fraternity and in the
business circles, that L&L Partners is the respondent‟s law firm being
based on his name Rajiv K. Luthra. FINDNGS/CONCLUSION: 10. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused the
record, at the outset I may state that the parties were relegated to O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 97/148 mediation process to be conducted by Mr. Sriram Panchu, Senior
Advocate vide order dated October 16, 2020. The mediation process
did not bear any fruits and the counsels for the parties agreed that the
Court may finally hear the petition as noted in the order dated
November 02, 2020. I may also state, on November 02, 2020 the
statement of Mr. Parag Tripathi was recorded on behalf of the
petitioner that he shall delete the respondent Nos.2 to 7 from the array
of parties. An amended memo of parties has been filed by the
petitioner wherein respondent, Rajiv K. Luthra, is the only sole
respondent. His statement was also recorded on November 12, 2020
on behalf of the petitioner that he shall not press the reliefs at f, g & l
of the petition. So, it follows that the remaining reliefs have only been
prayed against Rajiv K. Luthra, the sole respondent. 11. For convenience, where ever reference is made to the
submissions of Mr. Tripathi, Mr. Nigam (Senior Counsels) and Mr.
Nair, hereinafter, they shall be referred as „Counsels for the
petitioner‟. 12. The first prayer in the petition is for staying the email dated
October 13, 2020 of the respondent terminating the petitioner from
partnership of the Delhi Corporate Firm. The other reliefs are for
directions against the respondent restraining him from interfering
directly or indirectly with the management and / or participating in the
affairs of the Delhi Corporate Firm and that he should handover the
assets of the said firm which are in his possession. 13. I have already noted the case set up by the petitioner in this
petition. To sum up, his case in the petition is that, he along with
respondent were partners in the Delhi Corporate Firm. On October 12, O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 98/148 2020, 23 news partners were inducted in the Delhi Corporate Firm by
the petitioner. The respondent having withdrawn himself from the
Delhi Corporate Firm, should be restrained from interfering with the
right of the petitioner to conduct the business of the Delhi Corporate
Firm. 14. It is the conceded case of the parties that they have constituted
the Delhi Corporate Firm after executing a written partnership deed
dated March 31, 1999. Originally the Delhi Corporate Firm was
constituted in the name of Luthra & Luthra Law Offices, New Delhi
but pursuant to an amendment executed to the Deed on August 04,
2018 the name of the said firm was changed to L&L Partners, New
Delhi. Initially, the profit and loss share of the petitioner and the
respondent was 25% and 75% respectively. By way of an amendment
to the Deed executed on April 01, 2004 the shares were changed to
33.33% and 66.67%. Before the partnership of the parties was formed
in the year 1999, respondent was doing legal practice through a sole
proprietorship concern by the name Luthra & Luthra Law Offices.
The petitioner who joined legal practice in the year 1995 joined the
respondent as a retainer lawyer. It is a fact that thereafter two more
firms were formed viz. Delhi Litigation Firm and Mumbai Corporate
Firm, wherein the parties herein among others are also partners. 15. The case of the petitioner as contended by his Counsels is that if
the respondent intends to leave the Delhi Corporate Firm at any time
and retain its name, he needs to exercise his option within 12 years
from the effective date (April 01, 1999) i.e., March 31, 2011. After,
March 31, 2011, the respondent on leaving the Delhi Corporate Firm
shall have no right to retain its name and that the same shall continue O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 99/148 to be used by the remaining partners of the Delhi Corporate Firm.
Also, the clients, assets, employees and goodwill were to be retained
by the petitioner. Some of the relevant Clauses of the Deed on which
reliance was placed by the learned counsels for the parties are
reproduced as under: In the event RKL wishes to leave the Firm and retain the
 name of the Firm he would need to exercise his option
 within 12 years (twelve) from the Effective Date. If RKL
 exercises this option during the first four and a half years
 from the Effective Date, he shall be required to compensate
 MS for the full value of goodwill. However, if RKL exercises
 this option after four and a half years from the Effective
 Date but before 12 years then RKL shall be required to pay
 MS five (5) times the value of the goodwill pursuant to Section 5 of this Deed and MS shall retain all the existing
 clients of the Firm. RKL shall not be permitted to exercise
 this option after the expiry of 12 years. It is agreed between
 the Parties that after making payment for goodwill under
 this paragraph (1) RKL shall not be bound by non compete
 obligation pursuant to Section 10 and (II) Name User
 Agreement shall stand expunged. RKL may leave the Firm for any reason whatsoever and if
 he exercises the option of leaving without taking payment
 for goodwill, then RKL may continue to practice Law,
 however, the Name Luthra & Luthra Law Offices will
 continue to be used by remaining partners under the Name
 User Agreement. It is agreed that value of goodwill shall be computed as follows: D. Induction of New Partners. vi. In the event it is deemed necessary and feasible to
 induct new partners in the Firm, the same shall require the
 unanimous consent of RKL and MS. In the event of an
 induction being agreed upon, the percentage interest that is
 allocated to such new partner shall initially be only a nominal
 percentage and shall be contributed by reducing the existing
 percentage interest of the Parties, pro-rata. It is further agreed
 that if RKL and MS do not agree upon the induction of a new
 partner, RKL may elect to nominate someone, who will be
 entitled to receive a portion of his profits, which would have
 accrued to RKL, by giving a share from his own percentage
 interest, provided however, such new person shalt not have any
 rights in the management of the Firm. However, if any such
 person has been a part of the Firm for a continous period of five
 (5) years, or practised law for seven years such person may
 also be admitted to the benefits of partnership with management
 rights. The extent of management rights would need to be
 unanimously agreed by all the Parties. the age of 80 years, MS shall retire from the Firm when he have
 attained the age of 75 years. RKL and MS may be required to
 take pre-mature retirement when they are not in position to
 continue as a partner due to mental incapacity which leads to a
 situation where such party is unfit to practice the profession of
 law. Subject to the clauses of this Deed, a retiring Party(ies) shall
 strictly comply with the provisions of Article 10 hereof and any
 breach thereof shall provide a right to the Firm to seek
 damages from the retiring Party. In case of retirement, the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 106/148 retiring partner shall have the right to be paid for goodwill
 pursuant to Section 5 . 8. TERMINATION / DISSOLUTION. This shall not be a partnership at will and the Deed may be
 terminated or dissolved only by RKL and none other, by
 giving a ninety (90) days
 written notice to the other Parties, only upon the following
 a. If all the Parties unanimously agree to terminate or
 dissolve the Deed; b. Material Breach (as defined hereinafter) of terms by
 any party; c. If a Party has been declared bankrupt, insolvent, or
 looses of the right to practice the profession of law;
 d. The death or physical/ mental incapacity of a Party
 which leads to a situation where such a Party is unfit
 to practice the profession of law; e. A Party seeks retirement, withdrawal pursuant to Section 7 Provided, however, that upon the occurrence of any of the
 aforesaid events, RKL may issue a notice to the others and
 thereafter parties shall put in their best efforts to try and
 amicably resolve the issues and the notice of termination, as
 provided above, shall be issued only after the Parties are
 unable to amicably resolve the issue, inspite of best efforts,
 over a period of ninety (90) days, from the date of issuance of
 a written notice. Material Breach, as used in Article 8(a) shall mean, any of the
 following situations: consideration in any other form, from a client of. the
 Firm, for legal services, except as permitted under this
 Agreement. Where a Party engages in any business or
 vocation, other than the activities of the Firm, as a full
 time occupation. (iii). Where a Party engages in an activity which is O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 107/148 unbecoming of a lawyer, or is not permissible for a
 lawyer, as per applicable code of conduct for the
 profession. 9. CONSEQUENCES OF TERMINATION /
 DISSOLUTION / RETIREMENT / WITHDRAWAL /
 DEATH. A. In the situations enumerated in 6, 7E & 8, the
 following shall apply: ii. Pay a sum towards the share in the assets, in proportion
 to the percentage interest, which, for moveable assets,
 shall be calculated as the book value of the assets and
 for immovable assets shall be calculated as cost of
 acquisition plus the gain from indexation in terms of the
 index for capital gains as published by the Government
 of India. iii. Finalise the accounts and pay the balance outstanding
 as on the date of termination, however, all monies due
 but not received shall be paid on receipt by the Firm.
 However if MS leaves the Firm on his violation before
 October 1, 2003 monies due but recievable shall not be
 paid. It is further agreed that the surviving Parties and/or the Firm
 shall make best efforts to make the payments, as aforesaid, at
 the earliest possible but shall make the necessary payments
 no later than six months from the date of such termination,
 withdrawal, retirement. The recipient shall be entitled to
 receive an interest calculated at the prime lending rate of the
 State Bank of India plus 5%, for the period of delay beyond
 six months." 16. Having noted some of the Clauses of the Deed, it may be stated
that the learned Counsels for the respondent have taken an objection
on the maintainability of the petition on the ground of non-joinder /
mis-joinder / non-existence of arbitration agreement / reliefs sought
with regard to firms other than Delhi Corporate Firm. Insofar as the
pleas other than non-joinder of necessary parties are concerned, the
same may not sustain as of today in view of the statement of Mr.
Tripathi recorded by this Court on November 02, 2020 wherein he has
deleted the respondent Nos.2 to 7 from the array of parties including
the reliefs at (f) (g) and (l). In so far as the plea of non-joinder of
parties is concerned, I intend to deal with the same in the later part of
the judgement when I shall deal with the pleas of the petitioner and the
respondent that they have inducted 23 and 2 partners in the firm
respectively. STATUS OF PARTNERS: 17. Submissions have been made by the Counsels for the
respondent that; (i) the respondent has the dominant right to the firm
and its management; (ii) he has great financial right than the
petitioner; (iii) the respondent has binding vote on all critical matters; (iv) the respondent can apprise the work of the petitioner and not the
other way; (v) the respondent holds majority stake in the firm etc. In
other words, it was the endeavour of the Counsels for the respondent O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 109/148 to submit that the above cumulatively vests a power in the respondent
to terminate the petitioner from the Delhi Corporate Firm. 18. The learned Counsels for the petitioner have contested the
aforesaid position by stating that a partnership firm is not a legal
entity. A partner acts as an agent of the other and the relationship
between partners is not that of a master and servant or employee,
which concept involves an element of subordination, but that of
equality. 19. I agree with the submission of learned Counsels for the
petitioner that partners in the firm stand on equal footing. One partner
acts as an agent of the other(s). Together they constitute a firm. The
partnership per se is not a distinct legal entity. The Supreme Court in
the case of Kesavji Ravji and Co. & Ors. (supra) has by referring to
its earlier judgment in the case of Regional Director, Employees State
Insurance Corporation (supra), wherein the Court dealt with the
question whether there could be a relationship of master and servant
between a firm on one hand and its partners on the other indicated that
under the law of partnership there can be no such relationship as it
would lead to the anomalous position of the same person being, both
master and the servant. The Supreme Court in Kesavji Ravji and Co.
& Ors. (supra) has observed as under: 22. And observed (SCC p. 221, para 4: SCR p. 123)
 "...A partnership firm is not a legal entity. This
 Court in Champaran Cane Concern v. State of
 Bihar : AIR 1963 SC 1737, pointed out that in a
 partnership each partner acts as an agent of the
 other. The position of a partner qua the firm is thus
 not that of a master and a servant or employee
 which concept involves an element of subordination
 but that of equality. The partnership business
 belongs to the partners and each one of them is an
 owner thereof..."(SCC p.224, para 9: SCR p. 127)." (Emphasis supplied) 20. So, the partnership property vests in all partners and in that
sense every partner has an interest in the assets, however, the extent of
interest held by a partner is irrelevant as he continues to be the owner
of his interest in the firm. This I say so, in view of the judgment of the
Apex Court in Addanki Narayanappa and Ors. (supra), wherein by
relying upon Section 48 of the Partnership Act, it was held as under: 21. Even in Lindley & Banks on Partnership, 20th Edition at 3-07,
page 44, under the heading Status and Liability of a Partner, the
following has been stated: 22. Moreover, it is settled position of law that in the matter of
sharing the profits, the partners can agree to share the profits in any
manner they like but still they continue to be partners working as O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 112/148 agents for each other, which in no way confer a dominant legal status
on the partner drawing a higher interest (Ref: K.D. Kamath and Co. v.
CIT , 1971 (2) SCC 873). 23. Similarly, it is also a settled law, in view of Section 4 of the
Partnership Act, it is open to two partners to allow the business of the
partnership to be conducted by one of the partners (Ref: Pratibha
Rani v. Suraj Kumar , AIR 1985 SC 628). Merely, the fact that the
control of the business is kept with one partner and that he has certain
extra rights as a major partner does not in any sense negate the
partnership (Ref: In Re: Ambalal Sarabhai, AIR 1924 Bom 182). In
other words, no partner has a dominant status even if one partner has
extra rights and/or higher financial stake. 24. Having said that the learned Counsels for the respondent have
made reference to Clauses 7A, 7C and 7D in support of their
submission that the respondent has dominant rights in the partnership
to justify his action of terminating the partnership of the petitioner.
The said provisions shall be considered and dealt with in the later part
of the judgment when I shall deal with the contentions of the parties in
support of their respective stand on the impugned action.
SCOPE OF PETITION UNDER SECTION 9 OF THE ACT OF
1996: 25. It is the case of the petitioner that in terms of WhatsApp
message dated January 06, 2020, the respondent had expressed himself
to withdraw from the partnership by giving a 90 days‟ notice and
which notice period (though according to petitioner not permissible)
was extended by the respondent on four occasions finally leading to
issuance of email dated October 12, 2020 by the petitioner. 26. On the other hand, the case of the respondent is that it was
notice of termination of the partnership of the petitioner. Suffice to
state, the parties are at variance with regard to the nature of the
communication dated January 06, 2020. In any case, it is the issuance
of the email dated October 13, 2020 whereby the respondent has, in
purported exercise of powers under Clauses 7A & 8 of the Deed,
terminated the petitioner from the partnership, which triggered the
filing of the present petition. Though no challenge is made to
communication dated October 12, 2020 by the respondent, the issue
that needs to be decided in this petition under Section 9 of the Act of
1996 is, pending adjudication of the disputes between the parties
whether the petitioner is entitled to the reliefs as prayed for in this
petition. 27. A plea has been taken by the Counsels for the respondent that
the prayer „e‟ as sought for by the petitioner is in the nature of a final
relief and the same, not being a prayer for status quo / status quo ante
but a new state of affairs, the same cannot be granted by this Court. In
this regard, I may state that the power of the Court to exercise its
jurisdiction under Section 9 of the Act, 1996 is well settled by a
judgment of a coordinate Bench of this Court in Ashok Kumar v. SBI
Officers Association , 2013 (3) Arb LR 246 (Del) and also by this
Court in Jaguar Overseas Ltd. v. Seagull Maritime Agencies Pvt.
Ltd., OMP(I)(COMM ) 183/2020 decided on August 06, 2020,
wherein the scope of Section 9 of the Act of 1996 was delineated in
the following manner: 28. During the rejoinder submissions the Counsels for petitioner
have stated that this petition has been primarily filed seeking urgent
interim relief of seeking stay of email October 13, 2020, leaving final
adjudication as to the effect and nature of the communications dated
October 12, 2020 and October 13, 2020 in the prospective arbitration
proceedings. 29. Noting the position of law in Ashok Kumar (supra) and Jaguar
Overseas Ltd. (supra) it can be stated that this Court may not
necessarily consider the prayers in the manner made by the petitioner
in this petition but on a finding of prima facie case, irreparable injury
and balance of convenience grant, pending adjudication of the disputes
in the prospective arbitration proceedings between the petitioner and
respondent, such reliefs as deem appropriate. 30. It is also a settled law, the Court while exercising power under Section 9 of the Act of 1996 can interpret the provisions of the
contract to come to a prima facie conclusion. In this regard, I may
refer to the judgment of a Coordinate Bench of this Court in the case
of KSL and Industries Ltd. vs. National Textiles Corporation Ltd. , O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 116/148 2012 (3) ArbLR 470(Delhi), wherein it was held as under: Clause 8 of the Deed contemplates the Deed being terminated /
dissolved. Whereas, Clause 7A is under the heading „DECISION-
MAKING‟, i.e., decision making powers of the partners. No doubt, it
refers to the word „termination‟ but whether the same refers to
termination of the petitioner, is the question. The submission of
Counsels for petitioner is that the word „termination‟ in this Clause
refers to amalgamation, mergers etc. On the other hand, the plea of the
Counsels for the respondent is that the word „termination‟ has to take
colour from the subsequent words „performance review of partners‟. 33. Prima facie as per the initial part of the first paragraph of Clause
7A, amalgamation, merger or collaboration in any form with other
reputed international law firms , termination, performance review of
partners, post the year 2010, confers a right on the respondent to
render final and binding decision on investments / setting of new firms
or branches / amalgamation / merger or collaboration in any firm with
other reputed international law firms / termination / performance
review of all partners / removal of any constituent of the firm but in
contrast the later part, Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, any
decision for the merger, amalgamation or collaboration of the Firm
with any any Indian law firms or individuals would require the
approval of both RKL and MS, stipulates that any decision for the
merger, amalgamation or collaboration of the firm with any Indian law
firm or individuals require the approval of respondent/RKL and
petitioner/MS. When the later part of Clause 7A contemplates
approval of respondent/RKL and petitioner/MS in the decision-making
process, then earlier part of Clause 7A cannot be construed to mean
the power of the respondent/RKL to terminate petitioner/MS. I also O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 118/148 note, as per Clause 10B, power vests with both the petitioner and the
respondent to take decision with regard amalgamation, merger,
collaboration and buy-out of the firm by third parties. This clause
appears to be at variance with the initial limb of Clause 7A. Be that as
it may, when a vital decision with regard to buy-out of firm requires
the concurrence of both the petitioner and the respondent, it cannot be
construed that „termination‟ under Clause 7A would mean the grant of
power on respondent to terminate the petitioner from partnership
which has come into existence on the execution of the Deed by both
the petitioner and the respondent. Clause 10B of the deed reads as
under: 34. Further, the submission of the Counsels for respondent to relate
the power of performance review of partners by respondent in Clause
7A to mean the power to terminate the petitioner is not appealing as
Clause 7C separately provides for performance appraisal of
petitioner/MS by respondent/RKL. If the performance of
petitioner/MS, is found wanting, after expiry of ten years of firm, then
it can only entail imposition of penalty on petitioner/MS. Thus, in any
case performance appraisal of petitioner/MS cannot lead to
termination. Prima facie, the only purpose I see for the existence of
the word „termination‟ and words „performance review‟ in Clause 7A,
is for the termination and performance review of equity partners who O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 119/148 could be inducted by the respondent within his equity / share. The fact
that Clause 7A does not contemplate termination of the petitioner as a
partner is also indicative from a reading of Clause 9 of the Deed which
prescribes the consequences of termination/dissolution/retirement /
withdrawal / death, otherwise it would have mentioned / prescribed
Clause 7A as well. 35. Even otherwise, the Partnership Act (under Section 33 )
contemplates only expulsion and not termination of a partner, that too
in good faith. In Leigh v. Crescent Square Limited, 80 Ohio App. 3d
231, it has been held by the Courts of appeals of Ohio that "Generally
relations between partners are governed by the terms of the
partnership agreement, provided such terms are not in conflict with
the statute". The termination of partner not being contemplated, the
termination in Clause 7A cannot be that of the petitioner. It is also
held in the aforesaid judgment that "Courts may not imply additional
terms in a contract or agreement where none clearly exists".
Admittedly, there is no Clause in the Deed for expulsion as well. In
the absence of such a Clause even expulsion of the petitioner could not
have been effected. 36. It was the submission of the learned Counsels for the petitioner
that petitioner‟s termination from the partnership is not in good faith.
Prima facie, I agree with such a submission for the reasons viz. (i) the
termination was effected by invoking provisions which do not
contemplate termination of the petitioner as a partner; (ii) the
termination was effected immediately after the issuance of email dated
October 12, 2020 by the petitioner acknowledging the decision of
respondent to withdraw / retire from the firm; (iii) no challenge is O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 120/148 made by the respondent to the email dated October 12, 2020; (iv) in
the absence of a challenge to email dated October 12, 2020, the
respondent prima facie could not have issued the email dated October
13, 2020; and (v) the respondent resorted to the termination of the
petitioner from partnership and not dissolution / termination of Deed
as contemplated under the notice/communication dated January 06,
2020. 37. Learned Counsels for the petitioner are justified in relying upon
the judgment of the Madras High Court in Dr. S. Vel Arvind (supra)
wherein the Court deliberating upon Section 33 of the Partnership Act
held that without express provision or good faith, partners cannot be
expelled. The relevant paragraphs read as under: 14. Section 33(1) of the Indian Partnership Act is
 unambiguously clear that partners cannot be expelled even by
 majority of partners. Partners can be removed or expelled
 only in exercise of good faith of powers conferred by contract
 between partners. The above proposition that the relationship
 between the partners in a partnership is that of principal to
 agent for one another is confirmed by a plethora of cases
 decided by various High Courts. 15. Therefore, in the absence of explicit provisions in the
 contract agreed to between the partners regarding expulsion
 of partners, only remedy available to the disgruntled partners
 is taking recourse to Section 44 of the Indian Partnership Act
 for dissolution to be ordered by the Court on a suit of the
 partner and they cannot dismiss or expel the other partner. 16. Even assuming that the appellants have committed
 malpractice, the Arbitrator alone has to decide the dispute
 according to law and therefore, the expulsion of the appellants
 by the first respondent is erroneous. In this regard, it is
 relevant to extract below Paragraph Nos. 34 to 36, 40 and 41
 of the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Santiram
 Mullick v. Hiranmony Bagechi reported in (1991) 2 CALLT
 399 HC. 17. In the present case, there is no explicit provision regarding
 expulsion of partners and in my considered opinion, the only
 remedy available to the disgruntled partners is taking recourse
 to Section 44 of the Indian Partnership Act, for dissolution to
 be ordered by the Court on a suit of the partner and they
 cannot dismiss or expel the other partner. The petitioners have
 got all the rights to participate in the administration." (Emphasis Supplied.) 38. The plea of the Counsels for the respondent that even if there is
no explicit power, there is an implied power to terminate the
partnership of the petitioner is also not appealing. Firstly, the statute
i.e., the Partnership Act do not contemplate termination of a partner. Such a provision can neither expressly nor impliedly be read in the
statute nor in the Deed. What is contemplated under the Partnership
Act is expulsion of a partner under Section 33 , but in good faith of
powers stipulated in the partnership deed. No such power of expulsion
is also stipulated. The reliance has been placed by the Counsels on the
judgment of the Bombay High Court in the case of Kunda Madhukar
Shetye (supra) in support of their contention that implied power of
expulsion can be read into a Deed and Section 33 does not bar
expulsion. Suffice to state that the said judgment has to be read in the
facts of that case wherein clause 12 and 18 of the partnership deed
therein contemplates the following: 39. The Court therein after perusing the said clauses and Section 33 of the Partnership Act held as under: 40. In the said case there were more than two partners and the facts
which fell for consideration of the High Court reveals that the partner
so expelled was taking steps virtually to destroy the firm and its assets
and the Court on a prima facie conclusion held that there is an implied
power to read into the aforesaid clauses in the partnership deed,
casting obligation on the partners a responsibility not to do any act
against the interest of the firm or other partners, an implied power to
expel a partner by a majority decision in good faith for the benefit of
the firm. On the contrary in the case in hand, the parties (petitioner
and respondent) are the only two partners with management rights i.e.
to take decisions (though no right to terminate the partnership of the
petitioner exists under Clause 7A) and an implied power (even an
express power) cannot be read into the Deed consisting of two partners
as such a power is susceptible for an illegal use / use for extraneous
reasons to obviate dissolution / termination of Deed. 41. Even otherwise the very exercise of power by the respondent by
invoking Clauses 7A and 8 together is unsustainable. By exercising
power under Clause 7A the respondent has terminated the partnership
of the petitioner in the Delhi Corporate Firm. Whereas power under
Clause 8 is for termination of the Deed / dissolution. The termination
of a partner is different from terminating the Deed / dissolution as both
have different consequences, the later one entailing action under Section 46 of the Partnership Act. In fact, Clause 8 having been
invoked by the respondent it can be said that the impugned action is
for termination of deed / dissolution which would entail the
continuance of the petitioner till the winding up of the affairs of the
firm in terms of the Section 47 of the Partnership Act. 42. A plea was taken by the Counsels for the respondent that the
petitioner has at page 588 of the Index 4 Volume of the petitioner‟s
documents (WhatsApp chats between corporate partners) admitted that
the respondent has the right to terminate the petitioner‟s partnership. I
have seen the document at page 588 and perused the message sent by
the petitioner. No such conclusion can be drawn therefrom, at least it
cannot be inferred that the petitioner has stated that the respondent has
the right to terminate the petitioner. This is clear, when petitioner has
stated as under: 43. Similarly, a reference to paragraph 29 of the petition has been
made by the Counsels for the respondent for a similar argument that
the petitioner has admitted that the respondent has power to terminate
under Clause 8 of the Deed. The averments made in said paragraph
have been read out of context by the counsels for the respondent. In
this para the petitioner has only stated that "the respondent may issue
a notice of termination on one or more of the specific grounds
mentioned in Clause 8 thereof", which is the reproduction of the said
provision. The express provision of Clause 8 cannot be overlooked. In
other words, the petitioner has not stated that the respondent can
terminate him from the partnership by invoking Clause 8. 44. The decision to terminate has been taken by the respondent
alone as the two partners alleged to have been inducted by the
respondent had no management rights as no concurrence was given by
the petitioner. It also depicts that the respondent was an interested
party and being an interested party, the respondent could not have
taken such an action in view of the express provision in second
paragraph to Clause 7A (as reproduced above) and action being in
violation of the same cannot be said to be bona fide in nature. 45. Even otherwise, the so-called termination having serious
punitive consequences, such a power needs to exist expressly in a
partnership deed for being exercised strictissimi juris and bonafidely
(Ref: Blisset (supra); re A Solicitors' Arbitration, (1962) 1 W.L.R. 353). 46. A plea has been taken by learned Counsels for the petitioner,
even the exercise of the power under Clause 8 of the Deed has to be
exercised by giving two notices for 90 days each, first one for O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 129/148 amicably resolving the issue(s) and on failure to resolve the issue(s)
resulting in the issuance of the second notice for termination of the
Deed. 47. The said Clause mandates issuance of two notices, first one
being a written notice of 90 days upon occurrence of any of the events
specified in sub-clauses (a) to (e) of Clause 8 of the Deed. This 90
days‟ notice is to enable the parties amicably resolve the issue, which
forms subject matter of the notice. It is on failure to resolve the issues
amicably by the partners that results in the issuance of second 90 days‟
notice that too for termination of Deed / dissolution. 48. The plea of Counsels for respondent is that in the proviso to
Clause 8 the presence of the word „may‟ is to mean the issuance of the
second notice is not obligatory. I am not in agreement with this
submission made by the Counsels. It is a settled law that words in an
agreement / contract should be given a natural and ordinary meaning.
In fact, it is the understanding of the respondent himself that two 90
days‟ notice have to be issued under Clause 8. This is clear from his
own conduct, on him issuing email dated October 15, 2020, wherein
he has computed the payment, to be made to the petitioner pursuant to
the impugned email dated October 13, 2020, to include salary for three
months in lieu of the 90 days‟ notice period. 49. It is also the submission of Counsels for the respondent that the
petitioner has admitted in the rejoinder that attempts for amicable
resolution went on for months and the notice needed for resolution is
complete. This submission is also not appealing for two reasons;
firstly, the notice dated January 06, 2020 was for termination of Deed,
which notice is different from termination of petitioner from O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 130/148 partnership purportedly on material breaches. The attempts to
amicably resolve can be said to be for termination of Deed and, not for
termination of the petitioner from partnership. Secondly, when the
grounds for termination are with serious allegations, which do not
form part of notice dated January 06, 2020, like taking kick backs
from a party who is under investigation by the CBI, constituting
material breach of the terms as per the Deed, it was obligatory on the
part of the respondent to have given an opportunity to the petitioner to
reply to the same, as such a termination would cast a stigma on the
petitioner. In this regard, the Counsels for the petitioner are justified in
relying upon the judgment of Chanchery Division in Blisset (supra)
wherein it was inter alia held that the partner who is sought to be
expelled from a partnership should have some intimation of the cause
of complaint and an opportunity of meeting the case alleged against
him and the charges should be substantiated in a reasonable manner.
This view has been also followed in Nemi Das v. Kunj Behari, AIR
1928 Oudh 424. The relevant portion reads as under: 50. The Counsels for the respondent have relied upon the Chancery
Division judgment in Green v. Howell (supra) in support of their
submission that no notice need be issued disclosing to the partner the
causes of complaint against him or give him an opportunity of being
heard in his defence. I am unable to agree with the proposition as
advanced, as disclosing reasons for termination (in this case) would
have been in compliance of the principles of natural justice and also
enable the petitioner to answer precisely the allegations levelled
against him. As noted above no notice was issued to the petitioner
before issuing the impugned email dated October 13, 2020. Even the
respondent has not produced in these proceedings, documents /
evidence prima facie justifying the allegations, constituting material
breach, against the petitioner which form the subject matter of the
email dated October 13, 2020. 51. Reliance was also placed on Bhagwan Dass Khanna Jewellers (supra) and Veena Nalin Merchant (supra) by the Counsels for the
respondent in support of their contentions that the respondent has the
power to terminate the petitioner from the partnership in terms of the
binding and sacrosanct nature of the partnership deed entered into
between the parties. In view of my conclusion above in paragraphs 36,
40 & 41, the said judgments are clearly distinguishable.
STATUS OF EQUITY PARTNERS INDUCTED BY THE
PARTIES: 54. On a reading of Section 29 of the Partnership Act, it is clear that O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 134/148 a transferee has a very limited right under Section 29(1) . The main
partnership and the sub-partnership for the purpose of law are distinct
and different entities. Even where a partner transfers his interest in the
firm the transferor does not cease to become a partner nor does the
transferee become a partner in the firm. (Ref: Sunku Munuswami
Chettiar v. Sunku Narasimhalu Chettiar and Ors. ; 1958 2 MLJ 233). In this regard, the Counsels for the petitioner are justified in relying
upon the Apex Court judgment in the case of CIT v. B. Posetty & Co. (supra). The relevant portion of the judgment reads as under: In this case, the lessee is Nizamabad Group Sendhi
 Contractors (main firm). The sub-partnership is a distinct
 and different firm. It is one recognised by law and it is not a
 partnership with the main firm. It will not have the effect of
 making the partners in the sub-partnership, partners of the
 main firm. In other words, the main firm, the lessees and the
 sub-partnership are distinct and different. In the light of the
 above legal position, it cannot be said that either the sub-
 partnership in the instant case, or any of its partners as a
 partner, became a partner of the main firm, Nizamabad
 Group Sendhi Contractors. The inhibition contained in s. 14 of the Abkari act will apply only in a case where the lessee
 declares any person as its partner. Here, the lessees, M/s
 Nizamabad Group Sendhi Contractors, had not declared
 either the sub-partnership or any other person, as its
 partner. In such circumstances, the inhibition contained in
 s. 14 of the Abkari act cannot apply. It is true that Sri
 Posetty and 10 others formed the sub-partnership, "B.
 Posetty & Co." - for a legitimate business purpose, to
 provide the requisite finance, on condition of allotment of
 certain shares to them out of Mr. Posettys share in the main
 firm. The sub-partnership financed one of its partners to
 make a capital investment in the main firm. Such an
 arrangement or agreement between persons who formed a
 distinct and different firm, is valid in law and to such a
 situation s. 14 of the Abkari act is not attracted; nor is there
 any basis to hold that there was any contravention of the
 provisions of the said Act. Law recognises formation of sub-
 partnership. The main partnership and the sub-partnership O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 136/148 are, for the purpose of law, distinct and different entities.
 Registration cannot be refused to the sub-partnership on the
 ground that one of the partners of the main firm had agreed
 to share the profits received by him from the firm, with a
 stranger or strangers (members of the sub-partnership)
 since the agreement does not make the stranger or strangers
 or the sub-partnership firm, a partner in the original firm
 and such an arrangement or agreement does not affect
 either the main firm or its other members, in any way....." (emphasis supplied) 55. The Counsels for the respondent have in fact relied upon the
judgment of the Karnataka High Court in the case of Mushtaque &
Co. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Mysore , (1972) 84 ITR 561, in
support of their submission that the respondent has power to introduce
partners into the Delhi Corporate Firm. The said judgment nowhere
gives a unilateral power to a partner to introduce a partner to the
partnership firm. In fact, by referring to Sections 30 and 31 of the
Partnership Act, it is held in the said judgment that no person shall be
admitted to the partnership of an existing firm without the consent of
the existing partners. The judgment is of no help to the respondent. 56. In view of above conclusion, the issue of non-joinder of the
partners alleged to have been inducted by the respondent is liable to be
rejected. Further, the agreement in terms of the Deed which
incorporates the arbitration clause is between the parties herein and not
with the alleged inducted partners. WHETHER GRANT OF RELIEF AS PER PRAYED FOR IS
BARRED IN VIEW OF THE PROVISIONS OF SRA: 57. A submission was made by the Counsels for the respondent that
the Deed being terminable in nature, the same cannot be specifically
enforced under Section 14(d) of the SRA in view of Clauses 7A and 8 O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 137/148 read with Clauses 5, 9 and 10 of the Deed. Reliance was also placed
on Sections 14(b) , 16(b) and 41(e) and (i) of SRA for an argument that
the Deed cannot be specifically enforced/injunction cannot be granted.
The relevant portion of the said provisions of the SRA are reproduced
as under: (a).................. (b).................. (c).................. (d)................... (e) to prevent the breach of a contract the performance
 of which would not be specifically enforced; (f).................. (g).................. (h).................. (i) when the conduct of the plaintiff or his agents has
 been such as to disentitle him to the assistance of the
 court; (j)....................." 58. To consider this submission based on Section 14(d) of the SRA
this Court has to consider the effect of Clauses 7A and 8 read with
Clauses 5, 9 and 10 of the Deed, which I have already been
reproduced above. A contract is said to be determinable if their exists
in the contract a clause for termination at the option of one of the
partners. 59. I have already in paragraphs 33 and 34 above held that Clause
7A of the Deed does not contemplate termination of the petitioner
from partnership by the respondent. So, it is not a provision relating to
determination of the Deed. Even, Clause 8 prescribes termination of
the Deed / dissolution by the respondent, which Clause though
invoked, has not resulted in the termination of the Deed/dissolution.
Rather, it is the case of the respondent that the Delhi Corporate Firm
continues to be exist / survive. Moreover, the stipulation in Clause 8
that the partnership being not „at will‟ also fortifies my conclusion that
the partnership is not determinable. Further, Clauses 5, 9 and 10 which
prescribes leaving amount; the consequences of termination /
retirement / death; and Non-Compete and Buy-out by third parties
respectively are not indicative of the Deed being determinable. 60. Therefore, Section 14(d) and for that matter Section 41(e) of
the SRA have no applicability. It is also settled position of law that a
contract if not determinable, the Court is within its power to enforce
the same (Ref: Intercontinental Hotels Group-India Private Limited O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 139/148 and Ors. v. Shiva Satya Hotels Private Limited , 2014 GLH (1) 357). 61. Having said that I may state, the Counsels for the respondent
may be justified in arguing as a general rule that where a contract is
determinable, the Court will not order the specific performance of a
partnership. But there are exceptions to this general rule, which
according to Lindley & Banks on Partnership, 20th Edition at 23-137,
page 841, states as under: Similarly, at 23-140, page 842, it is stated as under: And at 23-145, page 844, it is stated as under: 62. In view of my conclusion above and the fact that the termination
of the Deed has not been effected coupled with the action of the
respondent not being a bona fide action/ in good faith, the exception to
the general rule that a contract cannot be specifically enforced shall be
applicable and the plea of the Counsels for the respondent is rejected. 63. The learned Counsels for the respondent have relied upon the
judgment in the case of Rajasthan Brewery Ltd. (supra), wherein the
Court in the facts of the case held that even in the absence of specific
clause authorising or enabling either party to terminate the agreement
in the event of happening of the events specified therein, from the very
nature of the agreement being a private commercial transaction, the
same could be terminated even without assigning any reason by O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 141/148 serving a reasonable notice. The said judgment is clearly
distinguishable on facts inasmuch as the case in hand is not a private
commercial transaction but a partnership, wherein the relation between
the partners is fiduciary in character where the partners act for the
common benefit of all in all transactions relating to the firm‟s business
and not indulging in taking advantage of one another by
misrepresentation, concealment of any sort. Further, there is nothing in
the Deed which remotely indicate termination of a partner except
termination of the Deed /dissolution. That apart, the termination has
been effected without even a notice as contemplated under Clause 8
for eliciting a reply from the petitioner on the grounds on which the
termination has been effected. 64. Similarly, the reliance placed by the Counsels for the respondent
on the judgment of this Court in the case of Turnaround Logistics
Private Ltd. (supra) is distinguishable in as much as the ground on
which injunction against termination sought was that the plaintiff
therein had furnished a bank guarantee. On the other hand, the
defendant therein, justified the termination on the ground that the
plaintiff was not an IATA approved company. It was on these facts
that the Court held the termination cannot be unreasonable, bad in law
or illegal. Even the Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case
of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (supra) has no
applicability to the facts of this case inasmuch as the contract between
the parties therein was a joint-venture agreement, which is purely a
commercial contract, whereby the parties came together for operating
a luxury train. An argument by the respondents therein that the train is
akin to a partnership property was negated by the Court in the facts of O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 142/148 that case. Further, the reliance placed on the judgment of a Coordinate
Bench of this Court in M/s Bharat Catering Corporation (supra) is
also misplaced in as much as there is a specific clause in the contract
which stipulated that the contract could be terminated by the
respondent for various reasons provided therein unlike the case in
hand. 65. Insofar as the submission of learned Counsels for the respondent
that this Court in view of Section 14(b) of the SRA also would not like
to give direction for specific performance of the contract as grant of
such direction would involve a performance of a continuous duty
which the Court cannot supervise by relying the judgment of this
Court in Heijan Solidkey Petroleum (supra). This submission of the
counsels is also not appealing in the facts of this case as noted in detail
above. In fact, what has been said in Lindley & Banks on
Partnership, 20th Edition at 23-137, page 841 and at 23-145, page
844 as reproduced in paragraph 61 above are applicable on all fours to
reject this argument. Additionally, as held by Bombay High Court in
Ganpat v. Annaji, 1898 (23) ILR 144 Bom., where a partner has been
wrongfully terminated from the partnership the Court can grant an
injunction restraining the other partners from preventing him from
taking part in the business of the firm. 66. Even the plea of the Counsels for the respondent by relying on Section 14(c) of SRA that when both the parties have made it clear
that they cannot work with each other as both of them have contended
that continuance of other party is not in the best interest of the firm,
the Court should not make the parties work with each other though
looks appealing on a first blush, the acceptance of such a plea would O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 143/148 have the effect sustaining the impugned email dated October 13, 2020
terminating the petitioner from the partnership which prima facie in
the facts is impermissible. And as such, the petition has to be decided
in accordance with law. It is my conclusion, prima facie, the
termination of the partnership of the petitioner being illegal and in
violation of the Deed, without there being any power on the
respondent to take such an action, the legal consequence thereof that
the partner needs to be reinstated must follow. Even the Counsels for
the petitioner are justified in relying upon Pollock & Mulla on the
Indian Partnership Act, 8th Edn., at page 176, wherein the following
has been stated:- 67. The Counsels for the petitioner are also right in relying upon the
judgment of Bombay High Court in Champsey Bhimji & Co. (supra),
wherein in paragrapgh 2 the Court has held as under: 68. In support of their submission the learned Counsels for the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 144/148 respondent have relied upon the judgments in the case of Marriott
International Inc. (supra) and Ramchandra Lalbhai (supra) are not
appliable in view of my conclusion drawn above. Moreover, the facts
in these judgments reveal that the contracts therein were commercial
contracts unlike the case in hand where this Court is concerned with a
partnership deed. 69. Even the submission of the Counsels for the respondent based
on Section 16(b) of the SRA to contend that specific performance will
not be granted in favour of a person who violates an essential term or
acts in variance of the contract is not appealing. This submission is
primarily premised on the ground that the petitioner declaring the
withdrawal/retirement of the respondent went ahead distributing the
equity of the respondent to 23 other persons. Admittedly, there is no
challenge of the respondent to the email dated October 12, 2020. In the
absence of any challenge to the same, it is doubtful whether the
respondent can say that the act of the petitioner amounts to breaching
the terms of the Deed. In any case, there are inter-se allegations made
by the parties which necessarily have to be adjudicated finally in the
prospective arbitration proceedings. The judgment relied upon the
Counsel for the respondent in support for their contention in Rajeev
Mehra (supra) is not a decision under Section 9 of the Act of 1996 nor
it arises from a partnership agreement, rather it is on an application
under Order 12 Rule 6 in a suit for specific performance of an
agreement to sell wherein despite admissions of the opposite party but
on an observation that the plaintiff therein acted at variance with the
agreement has denied the relief of specific performance at that stage
and had relegated the parties to trial. Reliance was placed by the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 145/148 Counsels for the respondent on J.L Gugnani (HUF) (supra) and
Chancery Division judgment in Carmichael v. Evans (1904) 1 Ch. 486. Insofar as the judgment in the case of J.L Gugnani (HUF )
(supra) on which reliance has been placed by the Counsels for the
respondent is concerned, the same is on similar lines to Rajeev Mehra (supra), wherein the division bench of this Court also refused to grant
specific performance of the contract as the conduct of one of the
parties was contrary to the contract therein. Rightly so, for a claim for
specific performance, a party has to show that it was ready and willing
to perform the contract and has not breached the same. It is in this
perspective that the judgments on which reliance has been placed
needs to read and understood. In Carmichael v. Evans (supra), the
Court refused to grant injunction against expulsion of one the partners,
in the interest of the firm, as the partner seeking injunction therein was
convicted of fraud by the Magistrate. The judgment is distinguishable. 70. A related argument was taken by the Counsels for respondent
that under Section 41(i) of the SRA, the conduct of the petitioner does
not entitle him the reliefs as sought for by relying upon Gujarat
Bottling Co. Ltd. (supra). As stated above, there are allegations and
counter-allegations by the parties on the breach of the terms of the
Deed. The said allegations have to be conclusively proved on finding
of facts based on cogent evidence in the prospective arbitration
proceedings. Moreover, I have concluded, that the termination of the
petitioner from the partnership by the respondent, of which injunction
is sought, prima facie is in violation of the Deed, such a plea is
unsustainable. Hence, the reliance placed on the judgment in Gujarat
Bottling Co. Ltd. (supra) is misplaced in the facts of this case, as the O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 146/148 contract in hand is a partnership contract and certain rights flow in a
favour of a partner under the Partnership Act and such rights may not
be adequately protected / compensated if I am to agree with the plea of
the Counsels for the respondent. 71. The Counsels for the respondent have also relied upon the
judgments in Samay Singh (supra), Nandan Pictures (supra) and Online Hotel Reservations Pvt. Ltd. v. Classic Citi Investment Pvt.
Ltd. , 2009 (158) DLT 739; to contend that relief in the nature of final
relief should not be granted; to buttress the submission that injunction
should not be granted to create new state of affairs; and a direction
restoring the status of the parties after termination under Section 9 of
the Act of 1996 should not be granted, respectively. The said
judgments are distinguishable on facts when the partnership consist of
two partners out of which one partner has been terminated by the other
and a serious question arises on the status of such a partnership.
RELIEF: 72. In view of my above discussion, prima facie the termination of
the petitioner from partnership by the respondent in terms of email
dated October 13, 2020 being in violation of the Deed and the
Partnership Act, keeping in view the mandate of Section 12 of the
Partnership Act, where a partner has the right to take part in the
conduct of the business and also keeping away the petitioner from the
partnership business shall be to his prejudice, if he finally succeeds in
the prospective arbitration proceedings, I direct that there shall be a
stay of the operation of the email dated October 13, 2020 issued by the
respondent terminating the petitioner from the partnership till the
conclusion of the prospective arbitration proceedings. 73. It is made clear that the aforesaid is a tentative / prima facie
view. 74. The petition is disposed of. No costs. V. KAMESWAR RAO, J

JANUARY 18, 2021/aky/jro O.M.P. (I) (COMM) 339/2020 Page 148/148