1. This appeal has been filed by the assessee against the final assessment order dated

 19.10.2023 passed u/s 143(3) r.w.s.144C (13) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter called 'the Act') subsequent to the directions of the Ld. Dispute

 Resolution Panel (DRP)/TPO vide order dated 13.09.2023 for Assessment Year

 2021-22. 2. Brief facts of the case are, assessee filed its return of income for AY 2021-22 on

 31.01.2022 declaring income of Rs.10,63,65,830/-. The case was selected for

 complete scrutiny under CASS due to large refund claimed by the non-resident. Accordingly, notice under section 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act along with

 questionnaire were issued and served on the assessee. In response, assessee filed its

 responses to various notices issued during the assessment proceedings. 3. The background of the assessee is, it is incorporated on 06.03.2015 as Limited

 Liability Company under the laws of Luxembourg. It is a Category II - Foreign

 Portfolio Investor registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India

 (SEBI). Assessee is a subsidiary of SC Lowy Primary Investments Limited and it

 invests in securities. It has invested in SCCL Property Sorel., Italy (it is a subsidiary

 of assessee company), bonds issued by the Indian company and pass through

 certificates issued by securitization trusts. AO observed that assessee has offered

 the interest income of Rs.3,38,39,127/- for tax in India chargeable to tax @ 10%,

 claiming benefit under Article 11 of India- Luxembourg DTAA. The assessee has

 claimed business income amounting to Rs.2,37,57,762/- and capital gain of

 Rs.37,46,96,834/- to be exempt from tax under Article 7 and Article 13(6) of the

 DTAA respectively. 4. During assessment proceedings, assessee was asked to differentiate between

 commercial activities of both the parent company and subsidiary company and the

 commercial rationale of the existence of the assessee company in the Luxembourg. No.

It was also asked too provide copies of Tax return filed in the country of residence

and copies of audited financial statements of the company from the date of

incorporation in the Luxembourg. In response, assessee has submitted its Articles of

Association, Tax Residency Cer
 Certificate
 tificate issued by Luxembourg, certificate of

registration with SEBI, details of investments made in India and income earned in

India during the year under consideration and income
 income-tax
 tax return filed in the

Luxembourg for the period 2015 to 2019 in support ooff its claim of availing benefit

of the India- Luxembourg DTAA. After considering the detailed submissions made

by the assessee, the AO noticed the corporate structure, which is reproduced on page

12 of the assessment order which is as under ::- 13 April 2000. 3. The Learned AO has erred law and in facts in taxing the
business income received from investment in pass through certificates
of securitization trust amounting to INR 2,37,57,762/- , as interest
income denying treaty benefits under Article 7 of India-Luxembourg
DTAA. 4. The Learned AO has erred in law and in facts in taxing the
short-term capital gain from sale of investment in securities
amounting to INR 37,46,96,834/- at 30% plus surcharge plus cess as
per Section 115AD of the Act and denying treaty benefit under Article
13(6) of India-Luxembourg DTAA. 5. The Learned AO has erred in law and in facts in taxing the
interest income from investment in units of investment fund amounting
to INR 3,38,39,127/- at 40% plus surcharge plus cess as per Section
115UB of the Act and denying treaty benefits under Article 10 of
India-Luxembourg DTAA. 6. Interest income from investment in pass through certificates
taxed at 40% as per Section 115TCA instead of 20% as per Section
115AD of the Act. The Learned AO has erred in law and facts taxing
the interest income from investment in pass through certificates of
India RE Trust amounting to INR 4,85,09,059/- at 40% plus
surcharge plus cess as per Section 115TCA of the Act instead of 20%
as per Section 115AD of the Act. 7. Without prejudice to Ground 2 above, Interest income from
investment fund taxed at 40% instead of 20%, Without prejudice to
above, the Learned AO has erred in law and facts taxing interest
income from investment in units of investment fund, Touchstone Trust
Scheme II, amounting to INR 3,38,39,127/- at 40% plus surcharge 7 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 plus cess as per Section 115UB of the Act instead of plus surcharge
 plus cess as per Section 115A of the Act." 9. At the time of hearing, ld. AR for the assessee submitted that the primary issue

 involved in this appeal is denial of DTAA benefits to the assessee and

 adjudication of this primary issue will address the other issues raised by the

 assessee as a consequence. He submitted that the assessee was incorporated on

 6th March, 2015 as a limited liability company ("LLC") under the laws of

 Luxembourg; is Category II - Foreign Portfolio Investor registered with the

 Securities and Exchange Board of India ("SEBI"); has invested in bonds issued

 by Indian company(ies) and pass through certificates issued by securitization

 trusts. He further submitted that during the course of assessment, the assessee

 placed on record Articles of Association, Tax Residency Certificate, Certificate

 of registration with SEBI, and income-tax returns filed in Luxembourg for the

 years 2015 to 2019. Ld. AR submitted that the assessing officer has denied the

 benefit of DTAA by observing in the para 13.10 of the assessment order. Accordingly, the assessing officer subjected to tax income earned in India as per

 the provisions of the Act. 10. At the time of hearing, Ld AR submitted the detailed submissions and the same

 are reproduced as under: The Corporate Income Tax Law differentiates between fully taxable
 residents ( article 159 of the LIR) and non-residents subject to limited
 taxation ( articles 156 and 160 of the LIR). Entities which are subject to corporate income tax include ( article 159 of
 the LIR): ...... 1.1.5 Definition of residence

 According to article 159 of the Corporate Income Tax Law, an entity is
 treated as a resident of Luxembourg if it has: The relevant extracts of the decision are reproduced below: 198. The Punjab & Haryana High Court in Serco BPO took a narrower
and stricter view when it held that once the TRC is found to have been duly
issued by the Mauritian authorities, it would be impermissible for the
Indian tax authorities to question the same since any other view would be
destructive of the faith reposed by the Contracting States in the authorities
of the respective States quite apart from being contrary to the position
taken by the Union itself in Circular No. 789. We would, however, be
inclined to affirm and follow the legal position as enunciated in Bid
Services and which appears to have made adequate provision for situations 14 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 where fraud or illegal activities be alleged. In any case, as would be
evident from our conclusions on the legal issues which were canvassed, our
decision does not rest on the mere fact that the petitioners hold a valid
TRC. 199. The significance and the salutary purpose underlying the issuance of a
TRC cannot be overemphasized. Its importance stands duly acknowledged
by the Union Government itself as is manifest from a reading of Circular
789 of 2000. Of equal import is the withdrawal of the amendments which
were proposed to be introduced in Section 90 and were ultimately shelved.
It becomes important to note that a TRC once found to have been issued by
the competent authority must be accorded due weightage and its sanctity
duly acknowledged. The TRC represents the first level of certification of the
holder being a bona fide business entity domiciled in the Contracting State.
The issuance of a TRC constitutes a mechanism adopted by the
Contracting States themselves so as to dispel any speculation with respect
to the fiscal residence of an entity. It therefore can neither be cursorily
ignored nor would the Revenue be justified in doubting the presumption
of validity which stands attached to that certificate bearing in mind the
position taken by the Union itself of it constituting ―sufficient evidence
of lawful and bona fide residence. Taking any other view would clearly be
destructive of what Serco BPO aptly described as resulting in an erosion of
faith and the trust reposed by the parties to the convention in each other. 200. Regard must also be had to the fact that when Vodafone was rendered,
the DTAA was yet to incorporate provisions regulating entitlement of
benefits. The TRC concept came to be adopted subsequently followed by the
incorporation of a specific LOB clause in the Treaty itself. The
observations appearing in Vodafone are thus
liable to be appreciated bearing in mind the crucial amendments which
have subsequently come to be included in the DTAA. Even otherwise the
observations appearing in Vodafone in the context of piercing of the
corporate veil and the extent to which the Revenue could enquire and
investigate despite a TRC were confined to cases of tax fraud, sham
transactions, where the entity has no vestige of economic
substance or the transaction is alleged to be aimed at camouflaging an
illegality. These charges if raised would have to meet an extremely high
and exacting standard of proof, since expressions such as fraud or sham
though loosely used in common parlance, have a specific connotation in 15 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 law. The Revenue would thus have to base such an allegation on cogent
and convincing evidence as opposed to a mere conjecture, doubt or a
perceived need to investigate and enquire. Such an allegation would have
to be established at the outset itself before the Revenue being recognised
as entitled to discard the presumption of validity which would spring into
existence once a TRC is produced and the LOB conditions shown to be
fulfilled." .... Principal purpose test: The amended preamble of the DTAA reads as below: as constituting some of the circumstances relevant for disentitlement.
Vodafone proceeds to observe that where the transaction be a colourable
device for distribution of profits or where the interposed entity be found to
be a device or conduit, the Revenue may be entitled to apply the principles
of substance over form and disregard the propounded character of the
transaction. It proceeded further to acknowledge situations where the
transaction be found on facts to be a complete sham, used as a camouflage
for illegal activities as being some of the circumstances where a person
may be denied the benefits of a treaty. The Supreme Court further
cautioned the Revenue from adopting a dissecting approach or seeking to
doubt the validity of a transaction based on the assumption that it was
designed as a tax deferment device. The decision underlines the imperative
of the "look at" doctrine being applied based on an evaluation of the
transaction as a whole. Radhakrishnan J. while expounding on the extent
of applicability of the lifting of the corporate veil principle pertinently
observed that corporate structures would be liable to be ignored where it
is misused for the accomplishment of a wrongful purpose or where it be
found to be a mere façade. His Lordship observed that the aforenoted
doctrine would be attracted where the transaction itself be found to be
fraudulent, a sham, a circuitous device aimed at tax evasion. However, and
notwithstanding these caveats, Radhakrishnan J. held that in the absence
of a LOB clause coupled with the presence of Circular No. 789 of 2000
and the TRC, a Mauritian entity could not be denied benefits merely on the
ground that the investment originated from that jurisdiction. His Lordship
proceeded to hold that the mere establishment of a wholly owned
subsidiary in Mauritius by principals having a genuine or substantially
long-term investments in India "can never be considered" to have been
"set up for tax evasion". Proceeding to speak of TRC, his Lordship held
that the same would not prevent the Revenue from enquiring into "tax
fraud", illegal or sham transactions, colourable devices or adoption of
dubious methods to evade taxes. However, and significantly his Lordship 21 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 stoutly rejected the contention that a Mauritian investment would be
considered legitimate only if it "originates" from that nation and not
investments from "third countries". 190. The precedents handed down by our Supreme Court thus in
unhesitating terms appear to have acknowledged and accepted the
changed world order necessitating the cross-border movement of capital
and investments and those in turn resulting in the creation of trans-
national corporations, the incorporation of entities in different
jurisdictions and thus facilitating investments in diverse parts of our
interconnected world. These entities thus sought out domiciles which had
an established treaty network, were cognizant of the new realities
concerned with ease of business and were enabled to overcome barriers of
time and place. Capital thus sought out new avenues and found itself
funding opportunities then unknown and unthought of. The forever
shrinking world order saw the birth of new investment highways created by
nations aligning their common economic goals aimed at fulfilling the need
of their people to find upliftment and prosperity. This march cannot
possibly be stalled, legally or otherwise, by skepticism or distrust except on
the basis of well-established parameters. 191. While much water has flown post Azadi Bachao Andolan and the
BEPS initiatives adopted by nations across the globe, the tests to doubt the
legitimacy of investments have remained more or less the same. All that
has occurred is of nations becoming more aware and cognizant of devices
and conduits which seek to exploit the positive measures adopted by
nations to derive benefits from cross border trade and investments
illegitimately and contrary to the avowed objectives of those conventions
and the underlying interpretative precept of good faith. These are aspects
which have also been underscored by two High Courts in Serco BPO and
Sanofi. 192. This would constitute an appropriate juncture to take note of the
executive response by India of the ethical concerns which were raised with
respect to investments emanating from Mauritius. The first seeds of doubt
pertaining to capital gains arising out of alienation of shares was
considered in Circular No. 682 of 1994. The Union Government clarified
that any gains derived by a Mauritian resident from alienation of shares
would be taxable only in that country. Many years before the introduction
of sub-section (4) in Section 90 and Rule 21AB in the Income Tax Rules
1962, the Union Government clarified vide Circular No. 789 of 2000 that a 22 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 TRC would constitute sufficient evidence for accepting status of residence
and beneficial ownership. Of seminal import were the amendments which
were sought to be pushed through by virtue of Finance Bill 2013 and
which sought to insert a provision in Section 90 intending to proclaim that
while a TRC would be necessary to avail of treaty benefits, it would not
constitute a sufficient basis for claiming benefits. As noticed hereinbefore,
the said amendment was ultimately withdrawn as a consequence of a huge
furore and the resounding negative clamour and opposition which came to
be voiced in connection therewith. 193. More importantly we find that the position of the Union Government
does not appear to have been opposed to what the Supreme Court
ultimately held in Azadi Bachao Andolan and Vodafone. The Union as well
as the Revenue appear to have accepted the legal position as enunciated in
those two decisions and which had acknowledged the invocation of the
substance over form principles to the confined and extremely narrow
contingencies where the Revenue may be recognised as being justified in
questioning the motives of an investment transaction."
In that case, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court observed that it could not be
held that the Petitioner lacked economic substance and had not undertaken
any economic activity or was domiciled in Mauritius solely for the purpose
of treaty abuse. The pertinent observations of the Hon'ble Court are
extracted hereunder for ready reference : furthermore, the onus is on Revenue to establish that the transaction is
sham or a colourable device, in the following words: The assessing officer has taxed interest income denying benefit of the
DTAA. Once it is held that the appellant is a tax resident of Luxembourg entitled to
benefit of the DTAA, business income received from investment in pass
through certificates of JMFARC Metallics Trusts amounting to INR
2,37,57,762 should be held not to be taxable in India as per Article 7 of the
DTAA. Re : Ground of appeal No. 4: Capital gains from sale of
investment in securities

During the year under consideration, appellant has sold debentures of
Indiabulls Housing Finance Ltd and security receipts of Edelweiss Asset
Reconstruction Company Ltd on which appellant has earned short term 26 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 capital gains of INR 37,46,96,834/-. Appellant has submitted capital gain
workings at pages 97 to 98 of paper book. Sale of debentures and securities receipts would be "any other property" The assessing officer has taxed the said income under section 115AD @
30% + surcharge + cess denying the DTAA benefit. Once it is held that the Appellant is a tax resident of Luxembourg capital 27 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 gains on sale of debentures and securities receipts would not be liable to
tax in India. Re : Ground of appeal Nos. 5 & 7: Interest income from investment
fund
Appellant has made investment in Touchstone Trust Scheme II, an
Alternate Investment Fund ("AIF") with Securities and Exchange Board of
India, from which interest income of INR 33,839,127/- was earned. The
Appellant had submitted Form 64C received from the AIF (Refer page 101
of paper book)
This income received from the investment fund is chargeable to tax in
accordance with the provisions of Section 115UB of the Act. Thus, income from AIF is chargeable to tax in the hands of the unit holders
(i.e., the appellant) as if such investment was directly made by the unit
holder (i.e., the appellant). Accordingly, interest income is chargeable to
tax @ 21.84% in accordance with the provisions of Section 115AD(1)(i) of
the Act. The Appellant offered such income to tax @ 10% as per beneficial
provisions of Article 11(2) of the DTAA. The assessing officer taxed the interest income from investment in units of
investment fund amounting to INR 3,38,39,127/- @ 40% plus surcharge
plus cess, as per section 115UB of the Act denying benefit of reduced rate
of tax. Article 11(2) of the DTAA provides that interest earned from investments
in India will be taxable @ 10% provided beneficial owner of interest
income is resident of Luxembourg. The said Article is reproduced as
under: The assessing officer has ignored the detailed submissions made by the
Appellant that it is legal as well as beneficial owner of investments made
in India and income earned from such investments. The income earned in
subject assessment year was not repatriated to Caymans entity as no
dividend was declared by the Appellant. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of Tiger Global (supra) had
analysed concept of beneficial ownership observing as under: However, prior to this addition to the Model Commentary (2014), various
courts had already applied this forwarding approach. Nevertheless, the
manner in which such an obligation may arise so that beneficial ownership
is denied was not answered uniformly. In general, there are two different
lines of reasoning; First, the legal approach that asks whether there is a
legal obligation to forward the received payment. Second, the economic
approach according to which a factual obligation to forward the income is
also harmful to beneficial ownership. For example, in the Canadian Prévost case, the court followed the legal
approach. It found that a Netherlands holding company, which had no
employees and no assets other than the shares of a Canadian subsidiary
(Prévost) could be regarded as the beneficial owner of the received
dividends since there was "no predetermined or automatic flow" of these 29 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 dividends to its shareholders (i.e. it was under no legal obligation to pass
on the payment). Also, a shareholders' agreement between the two
shareholders of the Netherlands holding company that stipulated that 80%
of the profits of the Netherlands holding company were to be distributed to
them was not considered to impose any legal obligation on the Netherlands
holding company, because the company itself was not a party to the
agreement. Conversely, in the British Indofood case, the economic approach was
applied. The court ruled that an (hypothetical) interposed company in the
Netherlands between a Mauritian subsidiary and its Indonesian parent
company would not be the beneficial owner of the interest it received,
although the company would not have been under a legal obligation to
pass on the payment (back-to-back loan structures). Rather, the court
found that the term "beneficial ownership" was not to be limited by a legal
approach but regard was to be had to the substance of the matter. Hence,
the court concluded that, in practical terms, the Netherlands company
would be bound to forward the interest it received and that it was
impossible to conceive of any circumstances in which it could derive any
benefit from the received interest other than to fund its liability (i.e. the
factual obligation upon it to forward the payment). Consequently, the
potentially interposed Netherlands company did not have the 'full
privilege' needed to qualify as the beneficial owner, but rather its position
equates to that of an "administrator of the income". The current OECD Model Commentary (2017) leaves leeway for both
approaches when it states that "[s]uch an obligation will normally derive
from relevant legal documents but may also be found to exist the basis of
facts and circumstances showing that, in substance, the recipient clearly
does not have the right to use and enjoy the dividend unconstrained by a
contractual or legal obligation to pass on the payment received to another
person". Some authors argue that an obligation to forward a payment can
never be "factual", but is always a legal obligation. Only in the absence of
legal documents can the facts and circumstances help establish the
existence of a legal obligation that the recipient has to forward the
payment. However, "it is not possible to prove that a person generally
should not be considered beneficial owner of a particular income payment
on the basis of facts and circumstances". Jiménez (2011) also notes that
"one of the major problems of host of the decisions studied (with the
exception of Prúvost) is their tendency to resort to 'economic 30 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 interpretation', when all that was needed in the cases they considered was
probably no more than 'legal interpretation'" 237. The author proceeded to formulate the following conclusion:- 238. Angelika Meindl Ringler, in her work titled "Beneficial Ownership in
International Tax Law" offers the following insights. Referring firstly to
Klaus Vogel's work on double taxation conventions, Meindl Ringler
observes:- 239. Noticing the explanation of the precept of beneficial ownership as
explained by Philip Baker, the learned author observes as under:- .... 242. As is manifest from the aforesaid passages and the views expressed by
leading authorities on international tax planning, emphasis is essentially
laid on the facet of ownership attributes. The views so expressed thus bid
us to discern a legal obligation which binds the recipient to forward the
income to another person. The views expressed commends the question to
be posed being whether the intermediary could claim the income for its
own account and benefit. It thus proposes that if it were found that the
conduit was able to avail the income itself, and was not contractually
obligated to forward that income to another person, it would clearly be
incorrect to impute the principles of beneficial ownership in such a
contextual setting. The core of the aforesaid precepts would appear to be
aspects of ownership and control over the income, a right of disposal or a
contractual obligation to pass on the same to another. 243. Both Vogel and Baker thus bid us to ascertain and discern the true
controller of the income, the entity which decides the use of the asset and
the income, and which could also include an administrator or trustee.
Tested on the basic rule of substance over form, the concept of beneficial
owner would get attracted to cases where the recipient of income or the
holder of the asset is found to be merely the ostensible depository and
which may hold the income either in the capacity of an administrator or
even as a trustee. For this charge to be accepted, it would have to be
established that the recipient or holder of income has no right or control
over the income and merely holds the same to be deployed on the
instruction of another. While the obligation to forward the income or gain
may be either legal or contractual dependent upon the position of parties,
it would certainly require a finding on fact that the income is held at the
behest of another, is controlled and regulated by a third party entity and
the ostensible owner having no real or substantive control over the same. 244. Tested on the aforesaid precepts, it becomes manifest that the
allegation of the revenue earned from the transfer of shares being
beneficially held by the petitioner, TG III and TG IV is thoroughly
misconceived and untenable. This since the respondents do not rest or
found this allegation on any material or evidence which may be read as
even remotely suggestive of the petitioners being under a contractual or
legal obligation to transmit the revenues to TGM LLC. The respondents
also do not base these submissions on any material which may have tended
to indicate that the revenue obtained from the transfer of shareholding was 35 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 an action undertaken by the writ petitioners acting for and on behalf of
TGM LLC. In fact and as was noted by us in the preceding parts of this
decision, the allegation of beneficial ownership itself rested on straws with
the respondents still seeking to discover the ultimate beneficiaries of the
revenue earned from the transfer of shares." The assessing officer has not been able to demonstrate any material or
evidence which would suggest that the Appellant was under a contractual
or legal obligation to transmit the interest income to the shareholder /
ultimate shareholder, coupled with the fact that no dividend was declared
by the Appellant in the subject assessment year. Applying the dictum of
law laid down by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the said decision, the
Appellant ought to have been entitled to the reduced rate of tax of 10% on
the interest income as per the beneficial provision of Article 11(2) of the
DTAA. Re : Ground of Appeal No. 6 : Interest income from India RE 2019
Trust
The Appellant had received interest income amounting to Rs.4,85,09,059
received from India RE 2019 Trust which was offered to tax @20% as per section 115AD of the Act. The Appellant had submitted Form 64F
received from the said trust [Refer : pg 101 of the paperbook] which
discloses the income as 'other source' which reflects the distribution made
by India RE 2019 Trust is from interest earned by the said trust from the
borrower company. The assessing officer without appreciating the fact that interest income
received from the securitization trust is chargeable to tax @20% under section 115AD(i) of the Act brought the same to tax @40% + surcharge +
cess under section 115TCA of the Act. It is respectfully submitted that income arising to the investors out of
investments in securitization trusts is chargeable to tax in the same manner
as if it were the income accruing or arising to, or received by, such person,
had the investments by the securitisation trust been made directly by him.
Accordingly, such nature of income cannot be recharacterized by the
assessing officer. In that view of the matter, the interest income received
by the appellant ought to have been taxed @ 20% only in terms of section
115AD(1)(i) of the Act." 11. On the other hand, Ld. DR for the Revenue submitted that this assessment year

 under consideration being a first year of MLI, in this regard, he brought to our

 notice page 205 of the paper book, the MLI with Luxembourg. He submitted that

 above MLI with Luxembourg came into force is 1st October 2019 in India and 1st

 August 2019 for Luxembourg. Therefore, it is effective from current AY. He

 submitted that Article 6 of the MLI is included in the preamble of the Agreement

 and he also brought to our notice relevant amendments made in Article 6. He

 submitted that as per Article 1 , the MLI is applicable to resident of one or both of

 the contracting state only. Further he brought to our notice page 220 of the paper

 book, brought to our notice Article 29. He submitted that as per paragraph 2 & 3

 of Article 29 , it clearly states the fact that if the main purpose or one of the main

 purposes of the creation of such enterprise was to obtain the benefits under this

 Agreement that would not otherwise be available, he submitted that paragraph 3

 of Article 29 states clearly that the case of local entities not having bonafide

 business activities shall be covered by the provisions of this article. Therefore,

 he submitted that the company established in Luxembourg is with the purpose of

 getting the tax benefit out of the DTAA since the company is established in

 Luxembourg by the Cayman Islands Holding Company. Further he brought to

 our notice page 12 of the assessment order and brought to our notice organization

 chart referred by the AO as per which parent companies are from Cayman Islands 37 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 holding 100% shares in the assessee company. He also brought to our notice

 findings of the AO that there is no treaty with the Cayman Islands and only treaty

 exists to exchange the information, therefore, there is no DTAA in existence with

 the Cayman Islands. Further he submitted that the offshore companies from

 Cayman Islands has no physical presence in Luxembourg. 12. Further he brought to our notice page 76 of the paper book which is the financial

 statements for the period 01.02.2020 to 31.12.2020 and submitted that assessee

 has not claimed any expenditure of operations. He wondered how the company

 is established in Luxembourg without incurring any expenditure. Based on the

 MLI entered with the Luxembourg, the assessee is not eligible to claim DTAA

 benefits considering the fact that assessee is only a conduit and he relied on the

 detailed findings in the assessment order. With regard to the Hon'ble Delhi High

 Court decision relied by the ld. AR for the assessee in the case of Tiger Global

 International IH Holdings (supra), he submitted that the issue involved in that

 case is relating to Mauritius treaty. Therefore, the facts are distinguishable and

 the relevant case is not applicable to the facts in the present case. Further by

 relying on the assessment order, he submitted that there is no commercial

 rationale to assessee to exist in Luxembourg. Finally he submitted that the MLI

 provision has to be applied particularly when the assessee company is established

 in Luxembourg with the object to avail the tax benefits. Therefore, he supported 38 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 the findings of the AO for denying the treaty benefit to the assessee. With regard

 to other grounds of appeal, he relied on the findings of the lower authorities. 13. In the rejoinder, ld. AR for the assessee submitted that the AO has not brought on

 record what is actual tax evasion made by the assessee and he prayed that the

 submissions made by him may be considered. With regard to additional grounds,

 he submitted that no doubt the interest charged u/s 234 is consequential still the

 provisions of section 234B may be remitted back to the AO to determine the

 actual liability in accordance with the law. 14. Considered the rival submissions and material placed on record. We observe

 from the record, during the assessment proceedings, the AO observed that the

 assessee is a limited liability Company incorporated in Luxembourg and it is

 100% subsidiary of SC Lowy Primary Investments Limited based in Cayman

 Islands and the Holding company also 100% subsidiary of SC Lowy Offshore

 Fund based in Cayman Islands. After analyzing the financial statements of the

 assessee company and various documents on record, he came to the conclusion

 that a) the scheme of arrangements employed in this case is tax avoidance

 through treaty shopping, b) it is just a conduit and the real owner is Holding

 Company based in Cayman Island, with whom there is no DTAA exists, c) TRC

 is not sufficient to establish the tax residency d) it is not a beneficial owner of

 income as control is not with them and e) no commercial rationale of 39 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 establishment of company in Luxembourg as the commercial outcome would be

 identical irrespective of location of funds. Accordingly, he denied the treaty

 benefits claimed by the assessee during this year. The issue raised before us is a)

 whether the existence of TRC issued by the Luxembourg authorities is valid for

 availing DTAA benefits and corresponding existence of LOB in the respective

 DTAA/MLI, compliance to the Art.29 is sufficient. And b) Whether the revenue

 could go beyond to raise several other conditions to grant DTAA benefits. 15. We observe that the above questions were considered by the Hon'ble High Court

 of Delhi in the case of Tiger Global International III Holdings (supra) wherein

 they held that

 i. A validity and sanctity of TRC issued by competent authority must be

 considered to be sacrosanct and due weightage must be accorded to the

 same as it constitutes the relevant entity being a bona fide entity having

 beneficial ownership domiciled in the contracting state to pursue a

 legitimate business purpose in the contracting state. Unless there is

 evidence of Fraud, sham transactions where the entity has no vestige of

 economic substance or the transaction is alleged to be aimed at

 camouflaging an illegality with cogent material at the disposal of the

 revenue authorities. ii. Based on the Circular No,789 of 2000 issued by the CBDT clearly held out

 that a TRC issued by authorities would constitute sufficient evidence for

 determining fiscal residence and beneficial ownership. (In our view, even

 though above circular was issued in relation to the transactions with

 Mauritius, still the substance of above direction of CBDT hold good for

 other treaties as well.)

iii. The issuance of TRC constitutes a mechanism adopted by the contracting

 states themselves so as to dispel any speculation with respect to the fiscal

 residence of an entity. iv. The revenue has to base an allegation on cogent and convincing evidence

 as opposed to a mere conjecture, doubt or a perceived need to investigate

 and enquire. Such an allegation has to be established at the outset itself

 before they discard the presumption of validity when the entity produces

 TRC and the LOB conditions are shown to be fulfilled. v. The circumstances under which the Revenue could pierce the corporate

 veil of a TRC holding entity is restricted to extremely narrow

 circumstances of tax fraud, sham transactions, camouflaging of illegal

 activities and the complete absence of economic substance and the

 establishment of those charges would have to meet stringent and onerous 41 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 standards of proof and required to base such conclusions on cogent and

 convincing evidence and not merely suspicion alone. 16. From the above, it is clear that the revenue has to accept the TRC issued by the

 competent authority and if the facts on record satisfies the conditions specified in

 the Article 29 on Limitation of Benefits, it cannot stretch beyond the above

 mandates unless they bring on record the cogent and convincing evidences to

 prove the existence of assessee being acted as conduit. On careful consideration

 of MLI with Luxembourg, we observe that the article 29 was modified and

 replaced the sub clause 2 and 3 of the Article by paragraph 1 of Art.7 of MLI, as

 per which benefit under the agreement shall not be granted in respect of income

 or capital if it is reasonable to conclude leading to relevant facts and

 circumstances, obtaining the benefit is one of the principal purposes of any

 arrangements or transaction that resulted directly or indirectly in that benefit. It is

 to be established that obtaining benefit is one of the principle purpose and bring

 on record the relevant facts and circumstances to prove that purpose of

 arrangements and transactions only for the purpose of taking treaty benefit. 17. Coming to issue under consideration, we observe that the assessee has submitted

 the valid TRC and the revenue has not raised any flag on the validity of the TRC. Further we observe that it was incorporated in Luxembourg in the year 2015 and

 incorporated in Luxembourg as an investment holding company and invested 42 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 mainly in distressed assets. It also made investments in Italy in its step down

subsidiary for making further investments. It is a step-down subsidiary of SC

Lowy Offshore Fund incorporated in Cayman Islands as a special purpose

vehicle for pooling of funds from various investors. It also registered with SEBI

as Category II - Foreign Portfolio Investor and has made investment in India

only in financial year 2018-19 in securitization trust / securities issued by

companies in India. Ld AR also submitted the geographical concentration of

investments made by the assessee, for the sake of clarity, it is reproduced below: 18. From the above, it shows that the activities of the assessee is beyond Indian

 jurisdiction and it also filed tax returns and paid tax in Luxembourg on its

 worldwide income, i.e., income earned from investments made in India as also

 income from other investments in different jurisdictions. It was submitted and

 brought to our notice that the assessee has incurred substantial operational

 expenditure relating to investments in Luxembourg in the nature of consulting

 fees, legal and litigation fees, other professional fees apart from other

 administrative expenses such as rent paid for office premises, bank account

 charges, accounting fees, etc. 19. Finally, it was submitted that the assessee continues to exist till date in

 Luxembourg and continues to hold substantial investments. It clearly shows that

 the assessee controls the assets as well as income on its own and cannot be

 termed as conduit. Further we observe that the AO has not brought any cogent

 material on record to indicate that the assessee in substance a conduit except

 expressing his views and presumptions. In our considered view, as per the

 directions of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Tiger Global International

 decision (supra), revenue authorities cannot bring on record other conditions to 44 ITA No.3568/Del/2023 deny the benefit under the treaty when the assessee submits the relevant TRC and

 proves its existence from the date of its investment in the source country. In our

 view, any economic activities which is not substantial in the earlier of its

 existence will not alter the position and it also proves that its activities are

 genuine by bringing on record the various activities and also establishes the fact

 that it is stand alone entity not depends on the conduct of the holding company, it

 establishes its existence beyond the source country and also without their being

 any cogent material with the revenue to establish that the assessee is only a

 conduit, the benefit under the treaty cannot be denied. With the above

 observations, we are inclined to direct the AO to grant the treaty benefits to the

 assessee. In the result, the ground no 2 is allowed in favour of the assessee. 20. With regard to other grounds raised by the assessee, which are relating to various

 benefits claimed by the assessee under the treaty, which was denied by the AO on

 the basis of non eligibility of the assessee for availing treaty benefit under the

 DTAA with Luxembourg. Since we already held them to be eligible to claim the

 benefit under the DTAA, the other grounds of appeal also allowed in favour of

 the assessee. Accordingly, all the grounds raised by the assessee are allowed. 21. With regard to additional ground raised by the assessee, it was submitted that the

 interest liability u/s 234B is excessively charged in the case of the assessee and

 prayed that it may be remitted back to AO to determine the liability as per law. Accordingly, we set aside the same to the file of AO to determine the liability as

 per law after considering the adjudication of various grounds raised by the

 assessee. In the result, the additional ground raised by the assessee is allowed for

 statistical purpose. 22. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 30.12.2024.