Airtel customers in India will now receive spam alerts for unwanted phone calls and messages originating within the country or overseas in 10 Indian languages, including Hindi, Punjabi, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Urdu, as per a press release issued on April 21 by the Indian telecom sector giant.

These features will be auto-activated for all Airtel customers, and they can access them for free. However, only customers who use an Android device can receive spam alert notifications in vernacular languages.

The telecom company said that it rolled out the above-mentioned services after carefully scrutinising customer feedback for spam calls and messages.

“With the growing volume of spam traffic shifting to foreign networks, we have decided to expand our AI-powered tool to scan all SMS messages and phone calls originating from international numbers,” said Siddharth Sharma, Director Marketing and CEO Connected Homes at Bharti Airtel.

Airtel’s anti-spam calls tool was launched in September 2024 , and has identified 27.5 billion spam calls till date, translating into 1,560 spam calls identified every second, as per the telecom company’s press release.

Notably, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) had directed telecom companies to implement an AI/ML-based spam detection system back in June 2023.

However, Airtel’s bolstered efforts to combat domestic spam calls in India have led spammers to use foreign networks to direct fraudulent calls into the country.

This alarming pattern resulted in a 12% rise in overseas spam calls to Airtel customers in the last six months alone.

This, in turn, prompted Airtel to expand its anti-spam services to cover international networks, while keeping in mind and catering to its customer base’s linguistic diversity in India.

Airtel isn’t the only telecom company in India taking significant strides to combat spam communication on its networks. For instance, Vodafone Idea (Vi) introduced an AI-powered spam SMS detection tool in December 2024.

At the time, Vi claimed that the spam management solution had flagged more than 24 million spam messages since its initial testing phase.

Furthermore, Airtel wrote to TRAI last year, asking the regulator to tackle spam and fraud on over-the-top (OTT) platforms like WhatsApp and Telegram.

All these developments indicate that major telecom companies operating in India are becoming increasingly serious in their efforts to protect users from unwanted spam communication.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event