This writ petition has been filed, seeking to direct the respondents to
re-conduct group discussion and interview for the petitioner so as to secure
admission in Post Graduate Diploma in Banking and Finance Course, thereby 
appoint the petitioner in the post of Probationary Officer, Junior Management
Grade/Scale-I in Bank of Baroda. 2. The case of the petitioner is that he, being a Civil Engineer,
applied for the post of Probationary Officer in the respondent Bank through
onlilne on 20.08.2016; that he was issued a hall ticket to undergo online
examination; that at the online venue, the Biometric data (left thumb
impression) was obtained by the Bank Officials and thereafter, he was
directed to undergo Psychometric Test, in which, he was successful and
thereafter, he was issued a letter dated 09.11.2016, directing him to appear
before the 3rd respondent along with all original documents, where once again
the Biometric data was captured and his certificates were verified; that
though he was asked to wait for group discussion, subsequently, he was not
allowed to participate in the same and was verbally informed by the 3rd
respondent that the Biometric impression taken on 09.11.2016 is not matching
with the one taken on 25.09.2016. 2.1. The further case of the petitioner is that though he has come up
successful in all the examinations, on account of technical fault, he cannot
be deprived of his righteous claim of getting employment and therefore, he
has filed this writ petition, seeking for the above direction. 3. The respondents have filed a counter along with a copy of the sample
call letter and the call letter of the petitioner. In the counter, it has
been stated as follows: 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner drew the attention of this Court
to the instructions given in the call letter with regard to Biometric data,
which is extract below: He would submit that there may be possibility of insoluble technical fault in
the machine in capturing the fingerprint of the petitioner, for that, the
petitioner cannot be victimized. Moreover, the signature found in the call
letter produced by the respondent Bank differs from his actual one, as found
in other documents, like the vakalath and therefore, the signature in the
call letter and his actual signature has to be sent to a Fingerprint Expert
for obtaining his opinion in this regard. 5. However, on a bird's eye view at the signature encrypted in the
application form, affidavit of this petition as well as in the representation
sent by the petitioner to the Director, Bank of Baroda, Mumbai, this Court
could only see the similarity in the signature and does not find any
divergence, though the respondent Bank has not produced the original
application form of the petitioner and therefore, there is no need for
referring the signature of the petitioner to an expert. Moreover, this Court
cannot go into the question of ascertaining the genuineness of the biometric
machine, which has been mainly introduced by the Bank for the purpose of
avoiding fraud in the selection process. 6. Hence, finding no merits in this writ petition, the same is
dismissed. No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are 
closed. To: