Date : 06-03-2024
 The petitioners are proprietorship travel agents.

 Petitioners No. 1, 2, and 3 are primarily authorized rail e-ticket

 agents of IRCTC. The rest travel agencies are further authorized

 by the petitioner no. 01, 02, and 03 travel agents as their Retail

 Service Proprietor (RSP) to book the railway e-tickets and manual

 tickets. Thus, all the petitioners are performing their duties as

 Principle Service Provider (PSP) or Retail Service Provider for
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 3/21 sale and advance booking of Railway e-tickets. They have their

 centers for e-ticketing at their respective offices outside the

 premises of Patna Railway Station and Rajendra Nagar Railway

 Station. 2. The petitioners have jointly filed the instant writ

 petition praying for the issuance of appropriate raids thereby,

 prohibiting the Railway Protection Force (RPF) deployed in Patna

 Junction, Danapur Junction, and Rajendra Nagar Terminal from

 conducting illegal raids outside their jurisdictional limits, search,

 and seizures without obtaining consent and giving pre-raid

 information to the local police station within whose jurisdiction

 the offices of respective travel agents were situated. The

 petitioners. The petitioners have also prayed for a declaration that

 initiation of proceeding under Section 143 of the Indian Railways

 Act, 1989, against the petitioners' consequent arrest of the travel

 agents production of the arrested persons before the Railway

 Magistrate, Patna, and remanding them to judicial custody are bad

 in law, and violating Article 14,19 and 21 of the Constitution of

 India as well as the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar , reported in (2014) 8 SCC 273. 3. They have also prayed for consequential reliefs.
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 4/21 4. The case of the petitioners is that the petitioners as

 travel agents have been working as Retail Service Providers by

 booking authorized railway e-tickets in which public money is

 spent and there is no public interest involved with regard to their

 act of selling railway e-tickets. Petitioners No. 1,2, and 3 are the

 Primary Service Providers under IRCTC. The rest petitioners are

 the Retail Service Providers to book railway e-tickets and manual

 tickets for a certain period of time as per the agreement with the

 IRCTC. 5. Thus, petitioner no. 01, Puja Travels has been

 authorized to book railway e-tickets, using the passcode of M/s

 Jayaswal Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. Petitioner no. 4 is authorized to

 book Railway e-tickets as per Railways e-ticketing terms and

 conditions using the passcode of M/s Birdres Technologies Pvt.

 Ltd franchise system terminal connected to IRCTC system.

 Petitioner no. 5 is a Retail Service Provider under Principle

 Service Provider under Spice Money Ltd. To book Railway e-

 tickets. Similarly, petitioner no. 06 and petitioner no. 7 are the

 RSPs under PSP M/s Jayaswal Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. To book

 Railway e-tickets. Petitioner no. 8, is a retailer of M/s Birdres

 Technology Pvt. Ltd., which is one of the principal service

 providers under IRCTC. Further, the case of the petitioners is that
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 5/21 the petitioners being the travel agents book tickets as per demands

 of the customers from their respective offices, situated within the

 jurisdiction of different police stations in the city of Patna,

 Danapur, and Rajendra Nagar. None of the offices of the

 petitioners are situated within the platform or passenger area of

 any of the aforesaid railway stations. However, the grievance of

 the petitioners is that members of the Railway Protection Force

 (RPF) in utter violation of their jurisdiction as described in the Railway Protection Force Act , habitually conduct illegal raids in

 the offices of the said travel agents. The petitioners contend that

 such raids were periodically conducted by the RPF for illegal

 gratification in the name of monthly wasooli. According to the

 petitioners, they do not have any jurisdiction to conduct any raid

 outside the passengers area. It is alleged by the petitioners that on

 different dates, the members of the RPF under the leadership of

 respondents no. 6, 8, 9, and 10, conducted raids in the respective

 offices of the petitioners and seized some articles under the seizure

 list and submitted prosecution under Section 143 of the Indian

 Railways Act. Moreover, while arresting the proprietors and/or the

 employees of the petitioners/travel agents, they did not comply

 with the direction of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case

 of Arnesh Kumar (supra). Subsequent to their arrest, they were
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 6/21 produced before the Railway Magistrate, Patna, and on some

 occasions, they were remanded to judicial custody. It is contended

 by the petitioners that the petitioners are entitled to carry on

 business, trade and commerce, in accordance with law. They are

 either Principle Service Providers or Retail Service Providers

 under IRCTC, and they have the right to conduct their business, in

 accordance with the law, and hindrance in opening their business

 by the State Authority violates Article 19(1)(g) of the constitution

 of India. The respondents suffice a counter affidavit wherein, they

 have denied the entire allegation made out by the petitioners in the

 writ petition. In the counter affidavit, it is admitted that the

 petitioners are registered agents of IRCTC, and as per the demands

 of the passengers they book e-tickets for the passengers, as per the

 terms and conditions of IRCTC. However, during festival seasons,

 the demand for tatkal tickets increases, which causes big queues of

 public/ passengers before the railway reservation counters for the

 booking of tatkal tickets. Despite their best attempts, many

 passengers could not get a confirmed ticket. It is alleged that the

 passengers, who do not get confirmed tatkal tickets during festival

 seasons, usually approach the IRCTC agents, and the tickets are

 made available to them at a heavy price. It is also stated on behalf

 of the respondents that to facilitate the general public for booking
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 7/21 of tatkal tickets, IRCTC opens the links for aforesaid agents after

 15 minutes of opening the link for the general public, so that the

 general public may get the first chance to book tatkal tickets. The

 allegation against the petitioners is that during the first 15 minutes,

 the agents used to book aforesaid Tatkal tickets by creating and

 using multiple private IDs. Users of such private IDs, by these

 agents, are strictly prohibited and against the terms and conditions

 prescribed by IRCTC for these agents. Purchasing tickets using

 private IDs by travel agents and selling them to different persons is

 an offence under Section 143 of the Railways Act. In order to curb

 the aforesaid practice, on the request of IRCTC, the RPF

 conducted raids in the offices of the petitioners and the other

 agents and registered case against them under Section 143 of the

 Railways Act because they violated the terms and conditions of the

 IRCTC and purchase tickets using their personal IDs. There was

 an allegation that the travel agents used to sell these tickets at high

 prices. It is further stated by the respondents that during raids, the

 RPF officers not only got e-tickets from the possession of the

 agents but also got manual/counter tickets which cannot be

 purchased by the RSPs. IRCTC authorized the travel agents to

 book online tickets through their assigned IDs only. But the travel

 agents used their private IDs to purchase online tickets which are
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 8/21 forbidden and illegal, according to Section 143 of the Railways

 Act. Therefore, the RPF officers conducted raids in the offices of

 the authorized travel agents of IRCTC, found the case against

 them, and booked them under Section 143 of the Railways Act. It

 is further contended on behalf of the petitioner that none of the

 provisions of the RPF (Amendment Act, 2003) has been violated

 in conducting the raid. The respondents further contend that the

 "passenger area" does not include only the railway platform, train,

 and yard, it also includes other areas that are frequently visited by

 the passengers. The offices of the agents are in and around Patna

 Station, which is frequently visited by passengers for booking

 tickets and thus, the offices of these agents fall under the ambit of

 "passenger area". For the interest of the passengers, the raid in

 question was conducted and there is no illegality in it. 6. The petitioners have filed a rejoinder to the aforesaid

 counter affidavit denying such allegations which is specifically

 stated that the petitioners never indulged in online booking of

 tickets on some private IDs. Moreover, IRCTC has its own rules

 and regulations formulated for reserved e-ticking service. For any

 illegal activity, the said terms and conditions made by IRCTC and

 duly approved by the Railway Board make the provision of major

 penalties for any illegal activity by payment fine to the tune of Rs.
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 9/21 25Lakhs and suspension of PSP for three months. Therefore, Rule

 143 of the Railways Act , is not applicable and the petitioners were

 wrongly subjected to a criminal case. 7. Mr. Rajendra Narayan, learned senior counsel on

 behalf of the petitioners submits that even if the allegation of the

 respondents is accepted on its face value, the petitioners cannot be

 held liable under Section 143 of the Railways Act. The sum and

 substance of the allegations against the petitioners are that during

 the first 15 minutes of opening of e-counter. The private travel

 agents purchased tatkal tickets by using their own user IDs,

 thereby depriving general passengers from getting tatkal tickets. It

 is urged by the learned senior counsel on behalf of the petitioners

 that the offices of the travel agents are not within the passenger

 area of any of the stations where the raids were conducted. They

 fall outside the passenger area. The Railway Protection Force

 (RPF) has not received even a single complaint from a private

 person that due to the illegal act of the travel agents hoarding of e-

 tickets under the Tatkal Scheme within 15 minutes causes

 deprivation to the general passengers. Therefore, the raid was

 conducted without any specific complaint or allegation. The

 petitioners came up with a case that in order to run a business, they

 used to pay illegal gratification to the members of the Force. When
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 10/21 there is no allegation of illegal activity against any of the

 petitioners suo motto raid in the offices of the travel agents speaks

 a volume against the conduct of the respondents. It is also

 submitted by the learned senior counsel on behalf of the petitioners

 that the allegation against the petitioners does not constitute an

 offence under Section 143 of the Railways Act. 8. Under the backdrop that no complaint was made by

 any passenger against the travel agents. Let me first consider,

 whether, Section 143 of the Railway Act is applicable in the

 instant case or not. Section 143 of the Railway Act is a penal

 provision for unauthorized carrying on all business procuring and

 supply of Railway tickets. The provision runs thus: 9. A plain reading of Section 143 states that the penal

 provision does not apply to a reservation or an agent authorized on

 this behalf. If any person, other than a Railway servant or an agent

 authorized on this behalf carries on any business of procuring and

 supplying railway tickets, he shall be punishable with

 imprisonment for a term that may extend to three years or with a

 fine that may extend to 10,000/- rupees or with both. 10. The petitioners are indisputably, the Retail Service

 Provider/which agent of IRCTC. The IRCTC appoints Principle

 Service Providers and Retail Service Providers on certain terms

 and conditions. Clause C of the terms and conditions describes

 penal provisions. The penal provisions as stated in the terms and

 conditions are reproduced below: form to be opened before stipulated Tatkal And
 time or during the banned time period, use of Cases involving cyber
 technology for gaining unfair advantage in act violations will be
 Ticket booking, Technical problems like reported to Cyber Crime
 making changes without proper testing etc. Police as well as RPF
 Misuse of IRCTC Website/IRCTC Rail (Railway Protection
 Connect Mobile App: Any activity restricted Force).
 by IRCTC like cases such as: b) Modify, copy, distribute, transmit,
 display, perform, reproduce, publish, license,
 create derivative work forms, transfer or sell
 any information from IRCTC Website/ b) A penalty Rs.10 lakh
 IRCTC Rail Connect Mobile App. Sale of + Taxes will be imposed
 Illegal Scripting/ Automated Software Tools per case on PSP and the
 by PSP to its RSPs or any individuals for services of PSP will be
 gaining advantage of booking tickets through suspended for 3 month.
 IRCTC Platform using personal User IDs. And
 Cases involving cyber
 act violations will be
 reported to Cyber Crime
 Police as well as RPF
 (Railway Protection
 Force). ii. Un-authorised access - Cases such as: A penalty of Rs.20,000/- Sharing of access credentials to web services, + Taxes per case, of a
 Sharing of RSP ID, Engagement with any complaint, will be
 other third party in any manner whatsoever to imposed on PSP and the
 sell e-tickets by any mode or manner including RSP ID of such outlet
 a e-commerce platform operating through a will be permanently
 website or Smartphone application or tablet deactivated
 application, Unauthorized Sale/Transfer of And
 Agency, etc. Cases involving cyber
 act violations will be
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 13/21 reported to Cyber Crime
 Police as well as RPF
 Iii. Point of sale fraud - Cases such as: 1. A penalty of
 Overcharging, nonpayment of refunds like Rs.20,000/- + Taxes per
 TDR refund claims, non-refund of cancellation case, of a complaint, and
 amount within the stipulated period, charging 2. A penalty of double
 of cancellation charges, False TDR Claim the amount of such
 overcharging/non- payment + Taxes will be
 imposed on PSP. 3. The RSP ID of such
 outlet will be
 permanently deactivated. And 4. Case will also be
 referred to RPF if found
 indulged in touting
 activity using personal
 ID
 iv. Non compliance of Booking/cancellation A penalty of Rs.20,000/- mandates - Cases such as: Faking as a + Taxes per case, of a
 normal user and booking on website using complaint, will be
 multiple personal user Ids for commercial imposed on PSP and the
 gains, Manipulation of ERS, sale of I RSP ID of such outlet
 tickets/Counter tickets, Booking of benami will be permanently
 tickets, Transfer or resale of tickets, blocking deactivated
 accommodation giving fictitious names, And
 cancellation of ticket without the knowledge Case will also be
 of customer, Non filing of TDR on request of referred to RPF if found
 Customer, Booking/cancellation of tickets in indulged in touting
 connivance with middlemen/Third party. activity using personal
 Booking request/collection of payment from ID
 Unauthorized web based platform. (2) Minor Irregularities
 i. Cases such as: 1. In the first instance, a a) Any RSP outlet, if found without proper penalty of Rs.5,000/- +
 display of sign board indicating the IRCTC Taxes per case, of a
 instructions viz Service charges, Payment complaint, will be
 gateway charges, without registration imposed on PSP with a
 certificate being displayed; warning to RSP. b) Non issuance of money receipt by RSP; And c) RSP Address Mismatch; 2. In the second instance, d) Any advertisement in print or press media a penalty of Rs.5,000/- +
 without prior permission from IRCTC in Taxes per case, of a
 writing; complaint, will be e) Misuse of IRCTC LOGO without prior imposed on PSP and
 permission from IRCTC. RSP ID will be
 permanently deactivated. ii. Cases such as; A penalty of Rs.5,000/- +
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 14/21 a) In the absence of written request/Electronic Taxes per case, of a
 request of customer for booking/cancellation complaint, will be
 of eticket. imposed on PSP. b) If correct Mobile No. of one of the
 passengers is not mentioned at the time of
 booking
 (3) Other provisions
 i. If complaints are received and proved against A show cause notice will
 5 different RSPs of PSPs in 01 month be issued to PSP.
 ii. If between 6-10 complaints are received and Services of PSP will be
 proved against different RSPs of a PSPs in 01 suspended for 01 month. proved against different RSPs of a PSP in 01 be suspended for 06
 month months. If two such
 incidences are reported,
 the PSPs will be
 permanently deactivated. However, i) the number of instances for imposing penalty will be
 counted based on date of occurrence of incidence as against date of
 reporting. ii)The complaints arising out of bookings made through PSPs IDs will
 only be counted for penal action against PSPs iii) The complaints arising out of bookings made through Personal IDs
 will be taken up through RPF under Railway Act for touting activity.
 Such complaints for tickets booked on personal ID will not be counted
 for the purpose of suspending PSPs on the criteria of number of
 complaints
 (4) For irregularities committed by RSP, necessary action will be taken
 against respective PSP also in addition to whatever action (like deactivation
 of RSP as decided by competent authority) taken against RSP. However, in
 case of criminal activity of RSP, necessary action will be taken by IRCTC
 through RPF against RSP. 5) Process of Complaint case: man/third party, etc., is subjected to penalty and cancellation of the

 agencies by the IRCTC as per Clause C of the agreement.

 Therefore, even if, some allegation is found against any authorized

 agent, it is the duty of the authority to inform IRCTC to take action

 in terms of penalty provisions. The petitioners being the authorized

 agents of IRCTC cannot be held liable for committing an offence

 under Section 143 of the Railway Act, 1989, even assuming the

 travel agents use personal IDs to purchase e-tickets.
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 16/21 12. The learned senior counsel on behalf of the

 petitioners has advanced the second limb of his argument,

 submitting that the raid, search and seizure, and subsequent filing

 of a complaint under Section 143 of the Railways Act by the RPF

 officers is illegal. In view of the fact that no such offence was

 committed within the "passenger area". 13. Section 3 of the Railway Protection Force Act, 1957

 (hereafter described as RPF Act) deals with constitution of the

 force. Section 3 runs thus: Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 17/21 (b) for the second or a subsequent
 offence, with imprisonment for a term which
 may extend to five years and also with fine and
 in the absence of special and adequate reasons
 to be mentioned in the judgment of the court,
 such imprisonment shall not be less than two
 years and such fine shall not be less than two
 thousand rupees." 14. Sub- Section 1 of Section 3 , clearly states that

 Railway Protection Force is constituted for better protection and

 security of the Railway property. Section 2(c)(b) defines

 "passenger area" which shall include railway platform, train, yard,

 and such other area as is frequently visited by passengers. 15. It is contended on behalf of the respondents that the

 private booking counters of travel agents are frequently visited by

 the passengers and, therefore, the said booking counters are

 "passenger area" and RPF can conduct raids in those booking

 counters. Now, the question for adjudication is as to whether any

 place outside the platform, train, and yard can be described as a

 "passenger area" on the ground that it is frequently visited by

 passengers. 16. Section 2(29) of the Railway Act, 1989 describes a

 passenger as a person, traveling with a valid pass or a ticket.
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 18/21 17. The booking counters are visited by persons who are

 the customers of tickets. Unless and until they get valid tickets,

 they are not passengers. In the Railway counters situated on the

 platform, people standing in a queue to purchase tickets are

 customers, when tickets are purchased and they are authorized to

 travel by train, they are passengers. The definition of the

 "passenger area" is to be construed, taking into account, the

 definition of passenger. Moreover, if both the definitions of

 passenger, contained in the Railway Act and "passenger area" 18. The same principle, if applied in the instant case, it

 would be found that the word search other area as is frequently

 visited by passengers is to be interpreted, in relation to Railway

 platform, train, and year. This is also to be noted that in the

 definition of "passenger area" the words Railway platform, train,

 and yard and the phrase such other area as is frequently visited by

 the passengers are joined with the word 'and' which is conjunctive

 and not disjunctive. 19. Therefore, by no stretch of the imagination, it could

 be stated that the passenger area is extended outside the platform

 area and the jurisdiction of the RPF is extended to any place for

 conducting raid. Therefore, I do not find any other alternative but

 to hold that the raids conducted in the offices of the petitioners by

 the RPF officers and lodging prosecution against them under Section 143 of the Railway Act are illegal and beyond the statutory

 power of the Railway Protection Force. 20. My ultimate decision may be illustrated by the

 following example. For the convenience of the passengers, either

 the Indian Railways or IRCTC has opened booking counters at

 places where there is no railway connectivity to facilitate the
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 20/21 passengers of such areas to purchase tickets for their journey from

 the nearest railway stations. Is it possible for the RPF to conduct a

 raid in those booking areas, where there is no railway platform,

 operation of train services, and yard? The answer must be in the

 negative. 21. The question inter alia arises then, what will be the

 remedy if the Retail Service Providers adopt unscrupulous means

 to purchase tickets, using their own IDs? The answer lies in the

 penalty provision contained in part C of the terms and conditions

 of the IRCTC agreement for the appointment of PSPs and RSPs. 22. If any such allegation comes to the officers of the

 RPF, the RPF officers shall forward such allegation to the IRCTC

 for taking necessary action against the unscrupulous travel agents,

 in terms of part C of the terms and conditions of the agreement

 between IRCTC, PSP, and RSP. 23. For the reasons stated above, the entire activity of

 the RPF, of conducting raid, search and seizure, and submission of

 prosecution is held to be illegal and void ab initio. The criminal

 proceedings under Section 143 of the Railway Act, against the

 petitioners be quashed. 24. With regard to the petitioners' prayer for taking

 action against the officers of the RPF for unlawful arrest, violating
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.368 of 2023 dt.06-03-2024 21/21 the guideline of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar (supra), the petitioners are given the liberty to take action against

 the concerned officers for non-compliance of the mandatory

 provisions of Section 41A and Section 41(i)(ii)(b) of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure. 25. With the above order, the instant writ petition is

 allowed on contest. However, there shall be no order as to cost. 26. Let a copy of this order be sent to the respondents

 no. 4-10, for information and future action. (Bibek Chaudhuri, J)
Suraj Dubey/-