The petitioners are Graduates and Post Graduates in the

system of Ayurvedic Medicine. They have been registered for

life time with the second respondent, which is a statutory board. 2. The second respondent is created under Section 3 of

the Karnataka Ayurvedic, Naturopathy, Siddha, Unani and

Yoga Practitioners Registration and Medical Practitioners

Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as

the 'Ayurvedic Act', for brevity). The duties and functions of

the Board are governed by the provisions of the Act and Rules

thereunder, with effect from 20.01.1965. The petitioners are all

registered and enrolled Practitioners in the Ayurvedic System

of Medicine. 3. The second respondent Board, in its General Body

meeting held on 28.09.2012, inter alia resolved to investigate,

identify and take action against fake Medical Practitioners and

quacks. Pursuant to this, the Under Secretary to the State

Government issued a circular dated 24.05.2013 prescribing that

all Practitioners already registered with the Board, should seek

renewal of Registration once in every five years. Subsequently,

the requirement for renewal of registration was given up vide

revised circular dated 22.01.2014. The said circular required all

registered Medical Practitioners to surrender their Registration

Certificates and their Identity Cards to the Board and further to

obtain new Registration Certificates and Identity Cards under

the biometric procedure. 4. The petitioners were happy that such measures were

taken by the Government to ensure that ineligible persons do

not get enrolled as Practitioners and unscrupulous persons do

not practice medicine by paying fraud on people. 5 The second respondent - Board had constituted a sub-

committee to study and report on the re-fixation of Registration

and Allied Fees to be charged by the Board. The sub-

committee, by a report has made a recommendation whereby

the fees was to be enhanced. The report has been forwarded to

the Government and sanction of the Government is awaited for

prescription of a fixed fee of Rs.1,000/- in respect of Graduates

and Rs.2,000/- in respect of Post-Graduates for Biometric

Online Refresh Registration. No such sanction has been

granted by the Government. However, there is a demand made

by the petitioners to pay Rs.1,000/- in respect of Graduates and

Rs.2,000/- in respect of Post-Graduates as a fixed fee for

biometric online registration. It is aggrieved by the same that

the petitioners are before this Court. 5. It is submitted that there is no provision of law that has

been incorporated prescribing the fee of Rs.1,000/- and

Rs.2,000/- and as it stands, the fee payable is only Rs.15/- and

hence, the petitioners claim that unless and until there is an 6 express provision of law prescribing the fee, it would be

impermissible and unlawful for the Board to demand and

collect any fee other than what is provided in law. It is on this

short point that the present petitions are filed. 6. Though the grievance of the petitioners appears to be

petty, there is a point of law involved and without sanction or

authority of law, it would be impermissible for the Board to

collect the fees which is yet to be incorporated in the statute and

hence, the petitions are allowed. The respondents are precluded

from collecting any fee than what is prescribed under the

Statute and if there is a proposed amendment, till such time the

amendment is incorporated, it would be impermissible for the

authorities to demand and collect any fee other than what is

prescribed. Sd/- JUDGE

KS