1 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MP(M) No. 32 of 2021
 Reserved on: 22nd January, 2021. . Date of Decision: 4th February, 2021. The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anoop Chitkara, Vacation Judge. Whether approved for reporting?1 NO

 For the petitioner

 For the respondent : 2. Earlier, the petitioner had filed a petition under Section 439 CrPC before the
 concerned Sessions Court. However, vide order dated 24.12.2020, learned
 Additional Sessions Judge, Kullu, HP, dismissed the petition. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? 3. Para 8 of the bail petition and status report mention the following criminal

 history: 4. Briefly, the allegations against the petitioner, which led to registration of an

 FIR, mentioned above, are that on 2 nd December, 2020, the complainant informed
 the Police Station, Sadar, Kullu about the kidnapping and extortion of money. He
 stated that two months ago, Krishna Pujari A-1, became his Facebook friend. He did
 not know her prior to this. In October, 2020, she sent a message on Facebook and

 started chatting with him. After 10-12 days, she won over him and conveyed that
 they can be good friends. In November, 2020 he received a phone call from Mobile
 No.78767-48330, informing him that she is his Facebook friend Krishna. She said

 that she would also make one of her friends as his Facebook friend and further that

 they can also meet alone day or night. In the first week of November, 2020, they
 kept on texting on Facebook. On 17 th November, 2020, Krishna Pujari, A-1, again
 made a phone call asking him to meet her near Shani Mandir at Bhuntar at 7.00 p.m.

 She also told him to bring one bottle of liquor and two bottles of beer. After that, the
 complainant purchased the aforesaid bottles of liquor and beer and reached at
 Bhuntar Chowk near Shani Mandir, in his Car. At that time, one Omni Van No.

 HP34C-9244, came and stopped near him. Two women came out and sat in his car. One woman introduced her as Krishna (A-1) and another Sarna (A-4). Both of them
 asked him to go to their home and they would stay there for the night. But because of
 busy schedule, he did not accompany them. They took away the liquor and beer and

 told that they would talk on phone. On 17 th November, 2020, the complainant again
 received a phone call from Mobile No.90151-00075 from a woman, who told her
 name as Sarna A-4. She told the complainant that she is going to her home at Rahla
 and asked him to drop her at Rahla, where she would be all alone. On 18 th
 November, 2020, during the day time, Sarna again called him and told that she is at
 Bajoura and asked him to drop her at home. The complainant alleged that since he
 was free as such he took the vehicle and reached Bajoura and noticed Sarna standing
 on the side of the road. He made her board his vehicle. On the way Sarna told him to
 buy a bottle of beer and said that they would drink it together. After that the ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:16:52 :::HCHP 3 complainant purchased a bottle of the beer and asked her about the location of the
 home. However, she said that they will take beer in the Forest. At a place near
 Kannoj, she asked him to stop the vehicle. At that place, one Scorpio, number

 . applied for was parked and five people were present in the said vehicle. Later on

 their names were known as Krishna Pujari (A-1), Surender Singh (A-2, Ajay Kumar
 (A-9), Ashu Kumar (A-3), and Mohit Kumar (A-5) and they started beating him. He

 inquired that why are they beating him, then they said that where was he taking his
 sister and they will not leave him alive. They forcibly made him to sit in the vehicle
 and told him that they would register a rape case against him and if he wants to save
 himself, he would have to pay a sum of rupees ten lacs. On this, he told them that

 neither he had forcibly brought Sarna nor he did any wrong act with her then why
 were they beating him. On this Sarna said that he cannot save himself and at that
 time Krishna was also standing along with Sarna. Krishna told him to pay money,

 otherwise, they would not leave him alive. After that they took him to Dohranallah

 and again gave him beatings. Subsequently, they confined him in a room in the
 house of Sarna. Somebody has also driven his vehicle from the original spot. He got
 afraid and thought of paying money to save his life. He started negotiating with

 them for a sum of rupees one or two lacs and told them to make him speak to his
 friend Chetan Guleria. After that Krishna gave him mobile phone and said that if he

 does not transfer the money then they would kill him. Complainant spoke with
 Chetan and asked him to bring rupees 1-2 lacs to Dohranallah and told him that he

 will tell the reasons later. After two hours, Chetan, Mohinder and Govind, who are
 the friends of the complainant, brought money and reached at Dohranallah. Surinder

 brought them further. At that place Sarna, Krishna, Surender husband of Sarna Tara
 Chand (A-7) were standing and inquired from them that how much money they were
 paying. On which those people told about one lac rupees and showed their inability
 to pay ten lacs rupees. Chetan handed over rupees one lac twenty three thousand to
 them. Krishna and Sarna told the complainant that henceforth he would have to
 work for them. On this, the complainant inquired from them that what kind of work
 he has to do. Then Mohar Singh (A-8), Pradeep Kumar (A-6) and Surender (A-2)
 told him that he would have to trap the people and he would get a commission of
 10%. On this, to save his life, he agreed to work as their pimp. They deleted the ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:16:52 :::HCHP 4 data from his phone and let him go. All these allegations led to the registration of the
 aforesaid FIR. 5. Learned Counsel for the petitioner contends that there is delay in FIR and it is a

 . counter effect of the previous FIR. 6. On the contrary, Learned Additional Advocate General contends that the

 accused is a proven habitual offender, and given her past conduct; she is likely to
 repeat the offence. He further insists that if this Court is inclined to grant bail, then
 such a bond must be subject to very stringent conditions. 7. The legislature enacted extremely stringent penal Laws to protect children and

 women. The deterrence was to send a message to perverts to mend their ways.
 However, accused persons have taken advantage of such stringent laws and trapped
 the complainant in honey trap. This act would erode the credibility of even the

 genuine victims of sexual assault. As such the accused are not entitled to bail. 8. Given above, the petition is dismissed. The petitioner shall be at liberty to file
 fresh petition before this Court after filing of Police report under Section 173(2)

 Cr.P.C. 9. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
 merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. The petition is dismissed. (Anoop Chitkara),
 Vacation Judge. February 04, 2021 (ps) ::: Downloaded on - 04/02/2021 20:16:52 :::HCHP