Flipkart has topped the list of e-commerce companies with the highest number of consumer grievances in the financial year 2023-24, according to data presented by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs in response to a Lok Sabha query . The National Consumer Helpline (NCH) recorded 1,60,857 complaints against Flipkart, making it the most complained-about e-commerce platform for the fourth consecutive year. NCH, under the Department of Consumer Affairs, is a platform for consumers nationwide to address grievances before escalating to litigation.

The data highlights a significant increase in complaints across the e-commerce sector. In 2023-24 alone, 4,45,960 grievances were registered against e-commerce companies, accounting for 36.1% of all consumer complaints filed nationwide (12,35,710).

The information came as a response to questions raised by Member of Parliament (MP) S Venkatesan:

While Flipkart led, Amazon followed with 58,875 complaints, and Meesho ranked third with 20,593 grievances. Other notable platforms with significant consumer dissatisfaction include Myntra (21,842 complaints), Swiggy (9,527 complaints), and Jio Mart (8,853 complaints).

The “Others” category, which includes several smaller or less popular e-commerce platforms, accounted for 1,22,080 complaints, indicating widespread issues across the industry.

The top e-commerce platforms by consumer complaints included Flipkart, Amazon, Jio Mart, and Snapdeal for general e-commerce; Meesho, Myntra, AJIO, and Tata Cliq for fashion; Nykaa for personal care; Swiggy, Zomato (including Blinkit), Ola, and Uber for food delivery and ride-hailing; MakeMyTrip and Goibibo for travel bookings; and VLE Bazaar for electronics.

Common grievances include delayed deliveries, defective or damaged products, non-refund of payments, and misleading advertisements. In addition, logistical challenges and inadequate customer support exacerbate consumer dissatisfaction.

The Ministry also revealed a year-on-year rise in complaints across the sector. Compared to 2,05,393 complaints in 2020-21, grievances have more than doubled by 2023-24, reflecting the increasing reliance on e-commerce and the growing complexity of consumer disputes.

The Ministry of Consumer Affairs stated that the NCH and the Integrated Grievance Redressal Mechanism (INGRAM) portal provides consumers with multiple channels to lodge complaints in 17 languages. Companies that have partnered under the NCH’s “Convergence” program are required to directly address grievances and provide feedback.

Currently, 1004 companies have “voluntarily partnered” with NCH, stated the response.

We have reached out to Flipkart for a response. We will update the article if and/or when we receive a response from them.

“At Flipkart, customer-centricity remains at the core of our operations,” the company stated in an email sent to MediaNama. “We leverage a robust grievance redressal system to address our customer concerns promptly and effectively,” it added.

“We have a multipronged communication strategy to offer timely solutions to our customers. We proactively communicate with our customers through multiple channels like email, SMS, WhatsApp, push notifications, interactive voice response, and customer care agent-based calling, and they also have the option to reach us directly through our help center ( https://www.flipkart.com/helpcenter ) or can contact us by requesting a callback, using the live chat, or sending an email through our self-serve page. We actively monitor social media platforms to promptly address customer concerns,” it further stated.

Flipkart acknowledged that they work with NCH and other similar bodies to resolve customer grievances.

Note: This article was edited on 21st December 2024, at 10:32 am to include Flipkart’s response to our queries.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event