OpenAI’s decision to restrict the recreation of MLK Jr’s likeness sets a precedent for the protection of the personality rights of deceased public figures. Such action is particularly important when we consider that AI tools have made it ridiculously easy to puppeteer historical figures into saying or doing almost anything.

For context, when users can generate videos of Martin Luther King Jr. making monkey noises during his watershed ‘I Have a Dream’ speech, one has to wonder what is going to stop someone from creating entirely revisionist historical content through AI.

In India, the judiciary treating personality rights as purely personal and non-transferable made sense in a pre-AI era: as at that time, most unauthorised uses were limited to films or commercial endorsements which required significant resources.

However, the present-day AI technology has democratised the ability to create convincing deepfakes, making posthumous exploitation both easier and more harmful.

OpenAI has paused Sora visual generations depicting Martin Luther King Junior’s (MLK Jr) likeness, on MLK Jr’s estate’s request.

This comes after reports of Sora users generating disrespectful recreations of MLK’s likeness, including showing him making monkey noises during his famous ‘I Have a Dream’ speech, according to a report by the Washington Post. This article mentions many other disrespectful depictions of deceased public figures, including actor Robin Williams, activist Malcolm X, and painter Bob Ross.

In some cases, such as those of MLK Jr and Williams, their children have posted on Instagram, urging people not to send them AI-generated videos of their fathers.

“To watch the legacies of real people be condensed down to ‘this vaguely looks and sounds like them so that’s enough’, just so people can churn out horrible TikTok slop, puppeteering them is maddening,” Williams’ daughter said in an Instagram story.

Besides restricting the recreation of MLK Jr’s likeness, OpenAI says that it is strengthening guardrails for historical figures.

“While there are strong free speech interests in depicting historical figures, OpenAI believes public figures and their families should ultimately have control over how their likeness is used,” the company said in a statement. Importantly, it mentioned that authorised representatives and estate owners can request the AI company to prevent Sora from using their likeness.

With AI video and image generation tools allowing people to generate the likeness of celebrities, concerns around deepfakes and personality rights protection have skyrocketed. Many Indian celebrities, including Arijit Singh, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Karan Johar , and Jackie Shroff, have secured legal protections for their personality rights by approaching the judiciary.

However with deceased individuals, the question of personality rights becomes a bit trickier, as courts have denied the transfer of rights of privacy, reputation, and personality. For instance, in 2021, the Madras High Court (HC) held that the right to privacy, and the reputation earned by a person during their lifetime extinguish after death. This came in the context of a case filed by former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister (CM) J. Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa to prevent the release of a film based on Jayalalithaa’s life.

“After the death of a person, the reputation earned cannot be inherited like a movable or immovable property by his or her legal heirs. Such personality right, reputation or privacy enjoyed by a person during his lifetime comes to an end after his or her lifetime,” the Madras HC noted.

Similarly, in 2023 , actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father filed an application with the Delhi HC looking to protect the late actor’s personality rights against unauthorised use in a film depicting his life and the events leading up to his death. The court rejected the application, coming to the same conclusion as the Madras HC.

And while these rights do not get passed down to heirs, if one shows that these rights are commercial in nature or have all the trappings of a trademark, courts may protect them from commercial exploitation, according to a blog post by law firm Anand and Anand .

The law firm cited the Delhi HC’s decision in February 2025 against the misuse of Ratan Tata’s name, his company’s logo, and his photograph. In this case, the court had said that Tata’s name is a well-known personal name/mark, which needs protection from any unauthorised use.

“Even if we assume that people cannot inherit personality rights of their family members in India based on the court decisions, they can still inherit their reputation as far as criminal defamation is concerned. Since defamation is a crime, the successors can prosecute if you hurt the reputation of the descended,” Ajay Kumar, Partner, Triumvir Law, told MediaNama. He explained that in India, if a dead person is defamed, their aggrieved family members can pursue defamation proceedings before criminal courts.

He gave the example of the defamation cases that Indian politican Vinayak Damodar Savarkar’s family filed against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for certain remarks that he made about Savarkar to explain how defamation works posthumously. “In the US things are different because they don’t have as strong a defamation law. However, in India, when you create a deepfake, it becomes defamation per se because just by creating it you are likely defaming their reputation, unless you explicitly emphasise that it is parody,” Kumar pointed out. Neeha Nagpal, Founding Partner, NM Law Chambers agreed, explaining that families of the deceased could institute defamation proceedings or invoke other remedies if a portrayal is defamatory, misleading, or harms the reputation or dignity of the deceased.

“In some cases, moral rights under Sections 57 and 38B of the Copyright Act, 1957, or cultural heritage protection may also be invoked, especially for figures of national importance like Mahatma Gandhi,” Nagpal argued. Similarly, Kumar explained that certain historical figures personality rights are protected under the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950. “This act says that you need permission from the central government before naming anything after Mahatma Gandhi,” he mentioned, adding that the act similarly protects Indira Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, and words like Gandhi, Nehru and Shivaji and also the name Lal Bahadur Shashtri.

“When it comes to AI-generated likenesses or digital recreations of historical figures, the question becomes more complex, especially if the depiction is inaccurate or manipulative. Indian courts would likely balance freedom of expression with the need to prevent distortion of historical truth and public sentiment,” Nagpal pointed out.

Personality rights protections are an evolving area of law, Kumar argued discussing the recent rise in celebrities seeking personality rights protections.  “This is an evolving area of jurisprudence and given the rise of AI this needs to be taken up at a WTO Level. Many dead people left behind copyrighable work which continues to be monetised. Personality rights will have deep implications for the marketability of those works. So we need some legislative clarity on this,” he explained.

While Indian courts did not uphold the transferability of personality rights of the deceased with respect to the Jayalalithaa and Rajput cases, other jurisdictions are thinking differently about the subject.

The US government is considering specific laws that seek to protect the rights of the deceased against AI replicas. In the US, a group of senators has proposed the “Nurture Originals, Foster Art, and Keep Entertainment Safe Act”, better known as the NO FAKES Act.

This legislation gives people the right to authorise the use of their voice or visual likeness in a digital replica through a written license agreement. Notably, this right does not end with a person’s death. Instead, the law proposes to pass this right on to a particular person’s executors/heirs/licensees.

The law allows for transfer of the right to a person’s likeness through any legal means or through inheritance as personal property by the applicable laws of intestate succession (succession when the dead person has not left behind any will).

And in case a deceased person licenses their rights before death, the license holder can hold onto these rights for 10 years after the person’s death, with the scope for extension for five-year increments.

Note: The story was updated on October 21, 2025, at 10:10 AM to include commentary from lawyers about the protection of historical figures personality rights.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event