This petition has been filed by the petitioner under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for quashing

the FIR No. 62/2020 registered at Police Station Waraseoni,

District Balaghat on 05.02.2020 for the offences punishable

under Sections 376 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(2)(v) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

(Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. 2. As per the case of the prosecution, a written complaint

was made in the police station by the prosecutrix alleging

therein that she knows the petitioner since a long time as she

used to visit his shop to purchase clothes. She has stated in

the complaint that frequent visit to the shop of the petitioner

developed intimacy and attracted her towards the petitioner

and she fell in love with the petitioner and as such they were

in relation. It is alleged by the prosecutrix that the petitioner

had given assurance of marriage and developed physical

relation with her. As per the prosecutrix, the petitioner used

to visit her house very often and they were in physical relation

since long. It is alleged that as a consequence of physical

relation, the prosecutrix conceived and got pregnant on

22.11.2019. After knowing about the fact of pregnancy of the

prosecutrix, the petitioner advised her to abort the child and

refused to marry saying that there was caste difference

between them, as she belonged to lower caste and he

belonged to Jain community, which is a higher caste and,

therefore, it was impossible for him to get married with her. Consequently, the impugned FIR has been lodged and offence

has been registered by the police against the petitioner. 3. From perusal of the record, it is clear that after filing the

present petition, some development took place and owing to

which the prosecutrix has filed an affidavit before this Court 3 stating that now her marriage has been settled with some

other boy and, therefore, she does not want to prosecute the

matter any further, because, if ultimately the case continues,

there is every possibility that her new married life would be

disorganized. 4. Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner has

carried this Court to the fact that this petition for quashing

the FIR is not on the point that the matter has been

compromised between the parties, but is on the point that if

overall circumstances of the case and the contents of FIR are

gathered, the offence under Section 376 of IPC is not made

out against the petitioner because the physical relation

developed between the parties was nothing but a consensual

sexual relation between the major persons and as such

offence under Section 376 of IPC is not made out. 5. Learned counsel for the respondent-State has opposed

the submission made by the learned counsel for the petitioner

and relied upon a decision of the Supreme Court reported in AIR 2019 SC 1296-State of Madhya Pradesh v. Laxmi

Narayan and others in which the Supreme Court has

observed that merely because the matter has been settled

between the parties and compromise has taken place, the

same is not enough for quashing the proceedings under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. She has also 4 placed reliance on a judgment of Delhi High Court rendered

in the case of Pawan Gaur vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) decided

on 26th March, 2021 and submitted that in the said case the

Delhi High Court has dismissed the petition filed under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. taking into consideration the

observations made by the Supreme Court in the case of Laxmi Narayan and others (supra) and several other cases. She has further submitted that the Delhi High Court while

dismissing the petition has also observed that the

compromise taken between the parties cannot be the sole

ground for quashing the proceedings. She has submitted that

in view of the above, the present petition deserves to be

dismissed. 6. Per contra, to rebut the submission made by the learned

counsel for the respondent-State, Shri Datt has submitted

that the analogy laid down by the Supreme Court in the case

of Laxmi Narayan (supra) on which the learned counsel for

the respondent-State has placed reliance is not applicable in

the present case for the reason that the present petition for

quashing of the proceeding is not on the ground that the

matter has been compromised between the parties. Even

otherwise, the Supreme Court in the case of Laxmi Narayan (supra) has observed that in every case proceedings cannot be

quashed on the ground that the parties have entered into a 5 compromise. The facts of the said case in which the Supreme

Court has denied to quash the proceeding are that when the

complainant/injured was extracting sand from the river, two

unknown persons came near to him and told him to run away

then somebody told accused to fire, who fired the gun shot on

the complainant and ran away. Five injuries were found on

the body of the complainant/injured and accordingly the FIR

was registered under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC and later

on the matter was compromised between the parties and a

petition under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. was also filed. 7. Shri Datt further in rebuttal of the case cited by the

learned counsel for the respondent-State has submitted that

in the case of Pawan Gaur (supra) the petitioner developed

the physical relation forcefully with the prosecutrix on the

false promise that he has links in the USA and he can

arrange a job for her and also help her to settle there. The

petitioner in the said case also defrauded the prosecutrix and

her mother because he fraudulently took a loan of

Rs.24,00,000/- from them and thereafter not returned the

same. Thereafter, petition under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. was

filed on the ground that a Memorandum of Understanding

has been entered into between the parties and the issues

have been amicably settled, however, the Delhi High Court

dismissed the petition observing that no other ground was 6 raised on merit of the case except the amicable settlement

between the parties. 8. To justify the aforesaid submission, Shri Datt has

submitted that here the facts of the present case are

altogether different from the said case. In the present case,

the petitioner and complainant both are major, literate,

having affair and have developed the physical relation,

although for some reasons the said relationship could not be

converted into marriage and annoying with the failure of the

said relation, the complainant lodged the FIR. He has

submitted that since later marriage of the prosecutrix is

settled with some other boy and she wants to enjoy her

married life, therefore, knowing fully well the fact that if

ultimately the case is continued, the same may adversely

affect her remaining life, she has compromised the matter

and filed the affidavit. 9. In support of his submission, learned counsel for the

petitioner has placed reliance upon the cases reported in

(2003) 4 SCC 46-Uday vs. State of Karnataka, ( 2019) 9

SCC 608-Pramod Suryabhan Pawar vs. State of

Maharashtra and another , ( 2019) 18 SCC 191-Dr.

Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar vs. State of Maharashtra

and others , ( 2020) 10 SCC 108-Maheshwar Tigga vs.

State of Jharkhand and 2021 SCC OnLine 181-Sonu 7 alias Subhash Kumar vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and

another and urged that in view of the contents of FIR if it is

considered to be true on the face value of the same, it is clear

that the offence under Section 376 of IPC is not made out

against the petitioner for the reason that it is a case of

consent and physical relation developed between the

petitioner and complainant does not fall within the definition

of rape, as has been defined in Section 375 of the Indian

Penal Code. 10. From perusal of the material available in the case diary,

it is clear that there is nothing to indicate that from the very

inception the petitioner made promise to prosecutrix for

marriage, he had any intention to defraud her and that

promise from the very inception was false. It is also not the

case of the prosecutrix and the prosecution that the petitioner

developed the physical relation in bad faith or with intention

to deceive her. They remained in relation for almost two

months and made physical relation continuously. The

prosecutrix, only after getting pregnant, asked the petitioner

to marry with her and when petitioner refused to marry and

asked to abort the pregnancy, she lodged the FIR. From the

record and the case of the prosecution, it is clear that it is not

the case that the petitioner developed the relation with the

prosecutrix with some ill intention or for taking some revenge. Both were major, fell in love and gradually came near to each

other and developed the physical relation and there was no

previous enmity between their family, therefore, in absence of

any specific incriminating evidence collected by the

prosecution, it cannot be presumed that the petitioner made

physical relation with the prosecutrix just to deceive her. 11. The Supreme Court in the case of Uday (supra) has

dealt with the issue in detail considering the respective

provisions of IPC i.e. Section 375 of IPC and Section 90 of IPC

and has observed as under:- 10. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted
that in the context of Section 375 of the Penal
Code, 1860, which is a special provision, the
general provision, namely, Section 90 of the
Penal Code, 1860 was not of much assistance to
the prosecution. According to him, Section 375
Thirdly, Fourthly and Fifthly exhaustively
enumerate the circumstances in which the
consent given by the prosecutrix is vitiated and
does not amount to consent in law. According to
him, one has to look to Section 375 alone for
finding out whether the offence of rape had been
committed. Secondly, he submitted that even
under Section 90 of the Penal Code the consent
is vitiated only if it is given under a
misconception of fact. A belief that the promise
of marriage was meant to be fulfilled is not a
misconception of fact. The question of
misconception of fact will arise only if the act
consented to, is believed by the person
consenting to be something else, and on that
pretext sexual intercourse is committed. In such
cases it cannot be said that she consented to
sexual intercourse. He sought to illustrate this
point by reference to English cases where a
medical man had sexual intercourse with a girl 10 who suffered from a bona fide belief that she was
 being medically treated, or where under the
 pretence of performing surgery a surgeon had
 carnal intercourse with her. In Stroud's Judicial
 Dictionary (5th Edn.) p. 510 "consent" has been
 given the following meaning: It refers to the case of Holman v. R. [1970 WAR 2]
wherein it was held that
 "there does not necessarily have to be complete
 willingness to constitute consent. A woman's
 consent to intercourse may be hesitant,
 reluctant or grudging, but if she consciously
 permits it there is consent". Similar was the observation
 in R. v. Olugboja [(1981) 3 WLR 585 : (1981) 3 All
 ER 443 : 1982 QB 320 (CA)] wherein it was
 observed that "consent in rape covers states of
 mind ranging widely from actual desire to
 reluctant acquiescence, and the issue of consent
 should not be left to the jury without some
 further direction". Stephen, J. in R. v. Clarence [(1888) 22 QBD 23 : (1886-90)
 All ER Rep 133 : 58 LJMC 10] observed: (All ER
 p. 144 C-D)
 "It seems to me that the proposition that
 fraud vitiates consent in criminal matters is not
 true if taken to apply in the fullest sense of the
 word, and without qualification. It is too short to
 be true, as a mathematical formula is true."
 Wills, J. observed: (All ER p. 135 I)
 "That consent obtained by fraud is no consent
 at all is not true as a general proposition either
 in fact or in law. If a man meets a woman in the
 street and knowingly gives her bad money in
 order to procure her consent to intercourse with
 him, he obtains her consent by fraud, but it
 would be childish to say that she did not
 consent." 11. Some of the decisions referred to in Words
 and Phrases, Permanent Edition, Vol. 8A at p.
 205 have held
 "that adult female's understanding of nature
 and consequences of sexual act must be
 intelligent understanding to constitute
 'consent'. Consent within penal law, defining 11 rape, requires exercise of intelligence based on
 knowledge of its significance and moral
 quality and there must be a choice between
 resistance and assent. Legal consent, which
 will be held sufficient in a prosecution for
 rape, assumes a capacity to the person
 consenting to understand and appreciate the
 nature of the act committed, its immoral
 character, and the probable or natural
 consequences which may attend it". (See People v. Perry [26 Cal App 143] .) 12. The courts in India have by and large adopted
these tests to discover whether the consent was
voluntary or whether it was vitiated so as not to be
legal consent. In Rao Harnarain Singh Sheoji
Singh v. State [AIR 1958 Punj 123 : 1958 Cri LJ
563 : 59 Punj LR 519] it was observed: (AIR p.
126, para 7)
 "7. A mere act of helpless resignation in the
 face of inevitable compulsion, quiescence, non-
 resistance, or passive giving in, when volitional
 faculty is either clouded by fear or vitiated by
 duress, cannot be deemed to be 'consent' as
 understood in law. Consent, on the part of a
 woman as a defence to an allegation of rape,
 requires voluntary participation, not only after
 the exercise of intelligence, based on the
 knowledge, of the significance and moral quality
 of the act, but after having freely exercised a
 choice between resistance and assent.
 Submission of her body under the influence of
 fear or terror is no consent. There is a difference
 between consent and submission. Every consent
 involves a submission but the converse does not
 follow and a mere act of submission does not
 involve consent. Consent of the girl in order to
 relieve an act, of a criminal character, like rape,
 must be an act of reason, accompanied with
 deliberation, after the mind has weighed as in a
 balance, the good and evil on each side, with the
 existing capacity and power to withdraw the
 assent according to one's will or pleasure." 13. The same view was expressed by the High
Court of Kerala in Vijayan Pillai v. State of
Kerala [(1989) 2 Ker LJ 234] . Balakrishnan, J., as
he then was, observed: (Ker LJ pp. 238-39, para 10)
 "10. The vital question to be decided is
 whether the above circumstances are sufficient
 to spell out consent on the part of PW 1. In order
 to prove that there was consent on the part of 12 the prosecutrix it must be established that she
 freely submitted herself while in free and
 unconstrained possession of her physical and
 mental power to act in a manner she wanted.
 Consent is an act of reason accompanied by
 deliberation, a mere act of helpless resignation in
 the face of inevitable compulsion, non-resistance
 and passive giving in cannot be deemed to be
 'consent'. Consent means active will in the mind
 of a person to permit the doing of the act of and
 knowledge of what is to be done, or of the nature
 of the act that is being done is essential to a
 consent to an act. Consent supposes a physical
 power to act, a moral power of acting and a
 serious and determined and free use of these
 powers. Every consent to act involves
 submission, but it by no means follows that a
 mere submission involves consent. In Jowitt's
 Dictionary of English Law, IInd Edn., Vol. 1
 explains consent as follows: 'An act of reason accompanied with
deliberation, the mind weighing, as in a balance,
the good or evil on either side. Consent supposes
three things -- a physical power, a mental power
and a free and serious use of them. Hence it is
that if consent be obtained by intimidation, force,
mediated imposition, circumvention, surprise, or
undue influence, it is to be treated as a delusion,
and not as a deliberate and free act of the mind.' " 15. The same view has been reiterated by the
Punjab High Court in Arjan Ram Naurata
Ram v. State [AIR 1960 Punj 303 : 1960 Cri LJ
849] , by the Rajasthan High Court in Gopi
Shanker v. State of Rajasthan [AIR 1967 Raj 159 : 16. The High Court of Calcutta has also
consistently taken the view that the failure to keep
the promise on a future uncertain date does not
always amount to misconception of fact at the
inception of the act itself. In order to come within
the meaning of misconception of fact, the fact
must have an immediate relevance. In Jayanti
Rani Panda v. State of W.B. [1984 Cri LJ 1535 : In such a case the consent could be said to
 result from a misconception of fact. But here the
 fact alleged is a promise to marry we do not
 know when. If a full-grown girl consents to the
 act of sexual intercourse on a promise of
 marriage and continues to indulge in such
 activity until she becomes pregnant it is an act of
 promiscuity on her part and not an act induced
 by misconception of fact. Section 90 IPC cannot
 be called in aid in such a case to pardon the act 14 of the girl and fasten criminal liability on the
 other, unless the Court can be assured that from
 the very inception the accused never really
 intended to marry her." 17. The same view was reiterated in Hari
Majhi v. State [1990 Cri LJ 650 (Cal)] and Abhoy
Pradhan v. State of W.B. [1999 Cri LJ 3534 : 18. The impugned judgment and order in this
appeal is by a learned Single Judge of the High
Court of Karnataka but it appears that in a recent
judgment, a Division Bench of the same High
Court in State of Karnataka v. Anthonidas [ILR
2000 Kar 266] has taken the contrary view.
Similar is the view of the Orissa High Court
in Nilambar Goudo v. State [1982 Cri LJ NOC 172
(Ori)] . 19. Only one judgment of the Patna High Court
was brought to our notice, which appears to take
a contrary view. ( Saleha Khatoon v. State of
Bihar [1989 Cri LJ 202 : 1988 BLJR 678 (Pat)] .)
However, the observations in that judgment must
be understood in the facts and circumstances of
that case. That was a case where the Magistrate
instead of committing the case to the Court of
Session for trial, on similar allegations, proceeded
to try the case himself for the charge under Section 498 IPC and declined to commit the
accused to the Court of Session for trial for the
offence under Section 376 IPC. This order was
challenged before the High Court and in those
circumstances the Court held that in the facts and
circumstances of the case, having regard to the
narrow jurisdiction of the Magistrate under Section 209 CrPC, he was not required to balance
and weigh the evidence as is done by the trial
court. In the facts and circumstances of the case,
he ought to have committed the case to the Court
of Session for trial under Section 376 IPC. In this
background the learned Judge made the following
observations: (Cri LJ p. 204, para 8)
 "The first point which attracts my attention is
 the second ingredient 'without her consent'.
 Consent always means free will or voluntary act.
 In this case consent was obtained on the basis of
 some fraud and allurement or practising
 deception upon the lady on the pretext that
 ultimately she will be married and under that
 pretext she allowed Opposite Party 2 to have
 sexual intercourse with her. Therefore, this
 tainted consent or a consent of this nature which 15 is based on deception and fraud, cannot be
 termed, prima facie, to conclude that it was 'with
 consent'. Had the lady known that ultimately she
 would be deserted, the facts and circumstances
 stated above and the materials placed would go
 to show that she would have refrained from
 giving such consent. Then a question would arise
 what was the purpose for which she gave
 consent. It was a fraud that was practised on her
 or she was deceived by giving false assurance.
 Such type of consent must be termed to be
 consent obtained without her consent. Consent
 obtained by deceitful means is no consent and
 comes within the ambit of ingredients of the
 definition of rape." 20. We may only observe that another Single
Judge of the Patna High Court in Mir Wali
Mohd. v. State of Bihar [1990 BBCJ 530] while
quashing a charge framed under Section 376 IPC
has taken the contrary view following the Calcutta
High Court judgment in Jayanti Rani Panda [1984
Cri LJ 1535 : (1983) 2 CHN 290 (Cal)] . 21. It therefore appears that the consensus of
judicial opinion is in favour of the view that the
consent given by the prosecutrix to sexual
intercourse with a person with whom she is deeply
in love on a promise that he would marry her on a
later date, cannot be said to be given under a
misconception of fact. A false promise is not a fact
within the meaning of the Code. We are inclined to
agree with this view, but we must add that there is
no straitjacket formula for determining whether
consent given by the prosecutrix to sexual
intercourse is voluntary, or whether it is given
under a misconception of fact. In the ultimate
analysis, the tests laid down by the courts provide
at best guidance to the judicial mind while
considering a question of consent, but the court
must, in each case, consider the evidence before it
and the surrounding circumstances, before
reaching a conclusion, because each case has its
own peculiar facts which may have a bearing on
the question whether the consent was voluntary,
or was given under a misconception of fact. It
must also weigh the evidence keeping in view the
fact that the burden is on the prosecution to prove
each and every ingredient of the offence, absence
of consent being one of them. 22. The approach to the subject of consent as
indicated by the Punjab High Court in Rao
Harnarain Singh [AIR 1958 Punj 123 : 1958 Cri LJ 16 563 : 59 Punj LR 519] and by the Kerala High
Court in Vijayan Pillai [(1989) 2 Ker LJ 234] has
found approval by this Court in State of
H.P. v. Mango Ram [(2000) 7 SCC 224 : 2000 SCC
(Cri) 1331] . Balakrishnan, J. speaking for the
Court observed: (SCC pp. 230-31, para 13)
 "The evidence as a whole indicates that there
 was resistance by the prosecutrix and there
 was no voluntary participation by her for the
 sexual act. Submission of the body under the
 fear of terror cannot be construed as a
 consented sexual act. Consent for the purpose
 of Section 375 requires voluntary participation
 not only after the exercise of intelligence based
 on the knowledge of the significance and moral
 quality of the act but after having fully
 exercised the choice between resistance and
 assent. Whether there was consent or not, is to
 be ascertained only on a careful study of all
 relevant circumstances." 23. Keeping in view the approach that the court
must adopt in such cases, we shall now proceed to
consider the evidence on record. In the instant
case, the prosecutrix was a grown-up girl studying
in a college. She was deeply in love with the
appellant. She was, however, aware of the fact
that since they belonged to different castes,
marriage was not possible. In any event the
proposal for their marriage was bound to be
seriously opposed by their family members. She
admits having told so to the appellant when he
proposed to her the first time. She had sufficient
intelligence to understand the significance and
moral quality of the act she was consenting to.
That is why she kept it a secret as long as she
could. Despite this, she did not resist the
overtures of the appellant, and in fact succumbed
to them. She thus freely exercised a choice
between resistance and assent. She must have
known the consequences of the act, particularly
when she was conscious of the fact that their
marriage may not take place at all on account of
caste considerations. All these circumstances lead
us to the conclusion that she freely, voluntarily
and consciously consented to having sexual
intercourse with the appellant, and her consent
was not in consequence of any misconception of
fact. 24. There is another difficulty in the way of the
prosecution. There is no evidence to prove
conclusively that the appellant never intended to 17 marry her. Perhaps he wanted to, but was not able
to gather enough courage to disclose his intention
to his family members for fear of strong opposition
from them. Even the prosecutrix stated that she
had full faith in him. It appears that the matter
got complicated on account of the prosecutrix
becoming pregnant. Therefore, on account of the
resultant pressure of the prosecutrix and her
brother the appellant distanced himself from her. 25. There is yet another difficulty which faces
the prosecution in this case. In a case of this
nature two conditions must be fulfilled for the
application of Section 90 IPC. Firstly, it must be
shown that the consent was given under a
misconception of fact. Secondly, it must be proved
that the person who obtained the consent knew,
or had reason to believe that the consent was
given in consequence of such misconception. We
have serious doubts that the promise to marry
induced the prosecutrix to consent to having
sexual intercourse with the appellant. She knew,
as we have observed earlier, that her marriage
with the appellant was difficult on account of
caste considerations. The proposal was bound to
meet with stiff opposition from members of both
families. There was therefore a distinct possibility,
of which she was clearly conscious, that the
marriage may not take place at all despite the
promise of the appellant. The question still
remains whether even if it were so, the appellant
knew, or had reason to believe, that the
prosecutrix had consented to having sexual
intercourse with him only as a consequence of her
belief, based on his promise, that they will get
married in due course. There is hardly any
evidence to prove this fact. On the contrary, the
circumstances of the case tend to support the
conclusion that the appellant had reason to
believe that the consent given by the prosecutrix
was the result of their deep love for each other. It
is not disputed that they were deeply in love. They
met often, and it does appear that the prosecutrix
permitted him liberties which, if at all, are
permitted only to a person with whom one is in
deep love. It is also not without significance that
the prosecutrix stealthily went out with the
appellant to a lonely place at 12 o'clock in the
night. It usually happens in such cases, when two
young persons are madly in love, that they
promise to each other several times that come
what may, they will get married. As stated by the 18 prosecutrix the appellant also made such a
 promise on more than one occasion. In such
 circumstances the promise loses all significance,
 particularly when they are overcome with
 emotions and passion and find themselves in
 situations and circumstances where they, in a
 weak moment, succumb to the temptation of
 having sexual relationship. This is what appears
 to have happened in this case as well, and the
 prosecutrix willingly consented to having sexual
 intercourse with the appellant with whom she was
 deeply in love, not because he promised to marry
 her, but because she also desired it. In these
 circumstances it would be very difficult to impute
 to the appellant knowledge that the prosecutrix
 had consented in consequence of a misconception
 of fact arising from his promise. In any event, it
 was not possible for the appellant to know what
 was in the mind of the prosecutrix when she
 consented, because there were more reasons than
 one for her to consent. 26. In view of our findings aforesaid, we do not
 consider it necessary to consider the question as to
 whether in a case of rape the misconception of fact
 must be confined to the circumstances falling
 under Section 375 fourthly and fifthly, or whether
 consent given under a misconception of fact
 contemplated by Section 90 has a wider
 application so as to include circumstances not
 enumerated in Section 375 IPC. 12. Further in the case of Pramod Suryabhan Pawar (supra) again the Supreme Court has considered the scope of

respective provisions of Sections 375 and 90 of IPC and

observed as under:- Section 375 prescribes seven descriptions of
 how the offence of rape may be committed. For
 the present purposes only the second such 19 description, along with Section 90 IPC is
relevant and is set out below: 10. Where a woman does not "consent" to the
sexual acts described in the main body of Section
375, the offence of rape has occurred. While
Section 90 does not define the term "consent", a
"consent" based on a "misconception of fact" is not
consent in the eye of the law. 11. The primary contention advanced by the
complainant is that the appellant engaged in
sexual relations with her on the false promise of
marrying her, and therefore her "consent", being
premised on a "misconception of fact" (the promise
to marry), stands vitiated. 12. This Court has repeatedly held that
consent with respect to Section 375 IPC involves
an active understanding of the circumstances,
actions and consequences of the proposed act. An
individual who makes a reasoned choice to act
after evaluating various alternative actions (or
inaction) as well as the various possible
consequences flowing from such action or 20 inaction, consents to such action. In Dhruvaram
Sonar [Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v. State of
Maharashtra , (2019) 18 SCC 191 : 2018 SCC
OnLine SC 3100] which was a case involving the
invoking of the jurisdiction under Section 482,
this Court observed : (SCC para 15)
 "15. ... An inference as to consent can be
 drawn if only based on evidence or
 probabilities of the case. "Consent" is also
 stated to be an act of reason coupled with
 deliberation. It denotes an active will in mind
 of a person to permit the doing of the act
 complained of." This understanding was also emphasised in the
decision of this Court in Kaini Rajan v. State of
Kerala [Kaini Rajan v. State of Kerala, (2013) 9
SCC 113 : (2013) 3 SCC (Cri) 858] : (SCC p. 118,
para 12)
 "12. ... "Consent", for the purpose of Section
 375, requires voluntary participation not only
 after the exercise of intelligence based on the
 knowledge of the significance of the moral
 quality of the act but after having fully
 exercised the choice between resistance and
 assent. Whether there was consent or not, is to
 be ascertained only on a careful study of all
 relevant circumstances." 13. This understanding of consent has also
been set out in Explanation 2 of Section 375
(reproduced above). Section 3(1)(w) of the SC/ST
Act also incorporates this concept of consent: verbal communication, communicates
willingness to participate in the specific act: 14. In the present case, the "misconception of
fact" alleged by the complainant is the appellant's
promise to marry her. Specifically in the context of
a promise to marry, this Court has observed that
there is a distinction between a false promise
given on the understanding by the maker that it
will be broken, and the breach of a promise which
is made in good faith but subsequently not
fulfilled. In Anurag Soni v. State of
Chhattisgarh [Anurag Soni v. State of Chhattisgarh,
(2019) 13 SCC 1 : 2019 SCC OnLine SC 509] , this
Court held : (SCC para 12)
 "12. The sum and substance of the aforesaid
 decisions would be that if it is established and
 proved that from the inception the accused who
 gave the promise to the prosecutrix to marry,
 did not have any intention to marry and the
 prosecutrix gave the consent for sexual
 intercourse on such an assurance by the
 accused that he would marry her, such a
 consent can be said to be a consent obtained
 on a misconception of fact as per Section 90 IPC and, in such a case, such a consent would
 not excuse the offender and such an offender
 can be said to have committed the rape as
 defined under Sections 375 IPC and can be
 convicted for the offence under Section 376 IPC." Similar observations were made by this Court
in Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana [Deepak
Gulati v. State of Haryana, (2013) 7 SCC 675 : 682, para 21)
 "21. ... There is a distinction between the
 mere breach of a promise, and not fulfilling a
 false promise. Thus, the court must examine
 whether there was made, at an early stage a
 false promise of marriage by the accused;" 16. Where the promise to marry is false and
the intention of the maker at the time of making
the promise itself was not to abide by it but to
deceive the woman to convince her to engage in
sexual relations, there is a "misconception of
fact" that vitiates the woman's "consent". On the
other hand, a breach of a promise cannot be said
to be a false promise. To establish a false
promise, the maker of the promise should have
had no intention of upholding his word at the
time of giving it. The "consent" of a woman under
Section 375 is vitiated on the ground of a
"misconception of fact" where such
misconception was the basis for her choosing to
engage in the said act. In Deepak Gulati [Deepak
Gulati v. State of Haryana , (2013) 7 SCC 675 : and whether the consent involved was given
 after wholly understanding the nature and
 consequences of sexual indulgence. There may
 be a case where the prosecutrix agrees to have
 sexual intercourse on account of her love and
 passion for the accused, and not solely on
 account of misrepresentation made to her by the
 accused, or where an accused on account of
 circumstances which he could not have
 foreseen, or which were beyond his control, was
 unable to marry her, despite having every
 intention to do so. Such cases must be treated
 differently. *** 24. Hence, it is evident that there must be
 adequate evidence to show that at the relevant
 time i.e. at the initial stage itself, the accused
 had no intention whatsoever, of keeping his
 promise to marry the victim. There may, of
 course, be circumstances, when a person
 having the best of intentions is unable to marry
 the victim owing to various unavoidable
 circumstances. The "failure to keep a promise
 made with respect to a future uncertain date,
 due to reasons that are not very clear from the
 evidence available, does not always amount to
 misconception of fact. In order to come within
 the meaning of the term "misconception of fact",
 the fact must have an immediate relevance". Section 90 IPC cannot be called into aid in such
 a situation, to pardon the act of a girl in
 entirety, and fasten criminal liability on the
 other, [Ed. : The matter between two asterisks
 has been emphasised in original.] unless the
 court is assured of the fact that from the very
 beginning, the accused had never really
 intended to marry her [Ed. : The matter between
 two asterisks has been emphasised in
 original.] ." (emphasis supplied)

 In the aforesaid case, the Supreme Court has also taken

note of the law laid down in the case of Uday (supra). 13. In the case of Dr. Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar (supra), the Supreme Court has not only considered the

scope of Sections 375 and 90 of IPC, but, has also considered

the fact as to where the powers provided under Section 482 of

Cr.P.C. can be exercised by the High Court. The Supreme

Court finally observed as under: Such cases must be treated differently. If the
 complainant had any mala fide intention and if
 he had clandestine motives, it is a clear case of
 rape. The acknowledged consensual physical
 relationship between the parties would not
 constitute an offence under Section 376 IPC. 24. In the instant case, it is an admitted
 position that the appellant was serving as a
 Medical Officer in the Primary Health Centre
 and the complainant was working as an
 Assistant Nurse in the same health centre and
 that she is a widow. It was alleged by her that
 the appellant informed her that he is a married
 man and that he has differences with his wife.
 Admittedly, they belong to different
 communities. It is also alleged that the
 accused/appellant needed a month's time to get 25 their marriage registered. The complainant
further states that she had fallen in love with
the appellant and that she needed a companion
as she was a widow. She has specifically stated
that "as I was also a widow and I was also in
need of a companion, I agreed to his proposal
and since then we were having love affair and
accordingly we started residing together. We
used to reside sometimes at my home whereas
sometimes at his home". Thus, they were living
together, sometimes at her house and
sometimes at the residence of the appellant.
They were in a relationship with each other for
quite some time and enjoyed each other's
company. It is also clear that they had been
living as such for quite some time together.
When she came to know that the appellant had
married some other woman, she lodged the
complaint. It is not her case that the
complainant has forcibly raped her. She had
taken a conscious decision after active
application of mind to the things that had
happened. It is not a case of a passive
submission in the face of any psychological
pressure exerted and there was a tacit consent
and the tacit consent given by her was not the
result of a misconception created in her mind.
We are of the view that, even if the allegations
made in the complaint are taken at their face
value and accepted in their entirety, they do not
make out a case against the appellant. We are
also of the view that since the complainant has
failed to prima facie show the commission of
rape, the complaint registered under Section
376(2)(b) cannot be sustained. 25. Further, the FIR nowhere spells out any
wrong committed by the appellant under Section 420 IPC or under Section 3(1)(x) of the
SC/ST Act. Therefore, the High Court was not
justified in rejecting the petition filed by the
appellant under Section 482 CrPC. 26. In the result, the appeal succeeds and is
accordingly allowed. The impugned order of the
High Court dated 2-7-2018 in Dhruvaram
Murlidhar Sonar v. State of
Maharashtra [Dhruvaram Murlidhar
Sonar v. State of Maharashtra, 2018 SCC
OnLine Bom 8419] , is hereby set aside. The
first information report dated 6-12-2000 filed by
the complainant in the police station at
Mhasawad, District Nandurbar, on the basis of 26 which Crime No. 59 of 2000 is registered against
 the appellant, is hereby quashed. The charge-
 sheet dated 14-6-2001 filed by Mhasawad Police
 Station against the appellant for the offences
 under Sections 376(2)(b), 420 read with Section
 34 IPC and Section 3(1)(x) of the SC/ST Act is
 also quashed. 14. In the case of Maheshwar Tigga (supra) also the

Supreme Court has considered the scope of Sections 375 and

90 of IPC relying upon the law laid down in the cases of Dr.

Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar and Pramod Suryabhan

Pawar (supra) reiterating the same legal position and also

observed that the proceeding under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. can be initiated for quashing the proceedings. The

observation of the Supreme Court is imperative to be

mentioned, which is as under: 15. So far as the cases i.e. Laxmi Narayan and Pawan

Gaur (supra) relied upon by the learned counsel for the

respondent-State is concerned, on bare perusal of the same,

it is clear that the facts of the said cases are altogether

different from the present case because in the said cases the

Supreme Court and the High Court dismissed the petition

filed under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. on the ground that the

compromise taken place between the parties is not sufficient

and cannot be the sole ground for quashing the proceedings. In the said cases the petitioners had not raised any other

ground except the ground of compromise taken place between

the parties, but, here not only the facts of the present case

are different than that of those cases relied by the counsel for

the respondent-State, but the quashment of the proceeding is

not being sought by the counsel for the petitioner on the

ground that the parties entered into the compromise, it is

argued that even from the allegation and the material 28 produced by the prosecution, the offence under Section 376 of IPC is not made out against the present petitioner. According to the learned counsel for the petitioner, it is a case

of consensual sexual intercourse because the petitioner and

the prosecutrix both are major, literate, having affair and

developed the physical relation out of their own free will,

although for some reasons the said relationship could not be

converted into marriage and annoying with the failure of the

said situation, the complainant lodged the FIR and later on

when the marriage of the prosecutrix was settled with some

other boy, she filed an affidavit stating therein that since her

marriage has been settled, she wants to enjoy her married

life and if the case is continued in future, her remaining life

would be adversely affected and, therefore, she has

compromised the matter and further she does not want to

prosecute the matter any further. On analyzing the facts and

circumstances of the cases cited by the learned counsel for

the respondent-State and the case at hand, it is apparent that

the analogy drawn on by the Supreme Court Court and the

High Court in the aforesaid cases is not applicable in the

present case. In the present case, the petitioner is not seeking

quashment of the FIR and proceeding thereof on the ground

that the matter has been settled between the parties, but he

is seeking quashment mainly on the ground that if the 29 contents of FIR or allegations attributed by the complainant

against the petitioner are taken to be true on its face value,

the offence under Section 376 of IPC is not made out. As per

Shri Datt, it is a clear-cut case of consent and consensual

relation between two major persons with their consent as they

were in relation. As such he has claimed quashment of the

FIR and proceeding thereof. 16. Considering the arguments advanced by the learned

counsel for the parties, the material available in the case

diary, the facts and circumstances of the case and also in

view of the enunciation of law laid down by the Supreme

Court in the cases cited above, in my opinion, this Court can

exercise the power provided under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and

quash the FIR and the proceedings initiated thereof against

the petitioner. It is not only for the reason that in view of the

existing facts and circumstances of the case the conduct of

the petitioner does not fall within the definition of rape as

defined in Section 375 of IPC, but also for the reason that the

power provided under Section 482 Cr.P.C. can be exercised to

secure the ends of justice. In the present case, the

complainant and her counsel has informed this Court that

the marriage of the prosecutrix has been settled with some

other boy and if the present case is continued further, that

may adversely affect newly married life of the prosecutrix. I 30 find substance in the submission made by the learned

counsel for the complainant/prosecutrix that in such

circumstances, it would be appropriate to quash the

proceedings arising out of the FIR No. 62/2020. 17. Accordingly, this petition succeeds. The FIR No.

62/2020 registered against the petitioner at Police Station

Waraseoni, District Balaghat on 05.02.2020 for the offences

punishable under Sections 376 and 506 of the Indian Penal

Code and Section 3(2)(v) of the Scheduled Castes and

Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 is hereby

quashed and consequently the proceedings arisen out of the

said FIR are also quashed. (Sanjay Dwivedi)
 Judge

Raghvendra

RAGHVE Digitally signed by RAGHVENDRA SHARAN SHUKLA DN: c=IN, o=HIGH COURT OF NDRA
 MADHYA PRADESH, ou=HIGH
 COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH,
 postalCode=482002,
 st=Madhya Pradesh,

SHARAN 2.5.4.20=0b4ca33e82678112c8
 b8779ae1f77dd53c66b97e56d
 85ed6193d6ff614e6a268,
 cn=RAGHVENDRA SHARAN

SHUKLA SHUKLA
 Date: 2022.01.18 15:37:16
 +05'30'