1. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and

 learned A.P.P. for the State. 2. The petitioner apprehends his arrest in a case

 registered for the offences punishable under Sections 467 , 468 , 471 , 420 , 406 and 120(B) of the Indian Penal Code. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 petitioner is a person with clean antecedent. 4. The informant alleges that Aadhaar card of the

 accused persons including the petitioner was added in the

 account of original account holder without their permission and

 thereafter an amount of Rs. 15,06527/- was illegally withdrawn

 from genuine accounts through the CSP by enabling Aadhaar

 Enable Payment System, further an amount of Rs. 1,20,572/-

 was withdrawn by Aadhaar of petitioner. Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.59237 of 2024(2) dt.09-09-2024 2/4 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 petitioner has been falsely implicated in the instant case by the

 informant. It is next submitted that it absolutely does not stand

 to reason that as to why the petitioner would have used his own

 Aadhaar linking it with the account of the original account

 holder for the purposes of withdrawing an amount and thus

 creating evidence against himself for being implicated. It is

 further submitted that no prudent person would indulge in an act

 where he creates evidence against himself and thereafter gets

 implicated. It is also submitted that it may be a possibility that

 the Aadhaar of the petitioner was misused by the bank officials.

 It is next submitted that if Aadhaar card had to be attached to

 the account of the original account holder, the same could not

 have been done without the connivance of the bank officials, but

 then the bank officials in order to shirk their responsibility

 implicated the petitioner along with others. 6. It is again submitted, at the cost of repetition, that

 no prudent person would indulge in an act where he creates an

 evidence against himself and thus gets implicated. It is also

 submitted that petitioner though is not involved in the

 occurrence, but then is willing to return the amount of Rs.

 1,20,572/-. Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.59237 of 2024(2) dt.09-09-2024 3/4 7. Learned A.P.P. for the State opposes the prayer for

 anticipatory bail of the petitioner and submits that no doubt

 what has been submitted by the learned counsel appearing on

 behalf of the petitioner appears to be probable, but then

 allegation is alleged against the petitioner and in the event if

 anticipatory bail is granted to the petitioner, the petitioner may

 abscond, on which the learned counsel appearing on behalf of

 the petitioner submits that petitioner will not abscond rather will

 co-operate in the investigation to prove his innocence. 8. Considering the submissions made by the learned

 counsel for the petitioner, the petitioner above-named, in the

 event of his arrest or surrender before the learned trial court

 within a period of six weeks from today, be released on

 anticipatory bail on furnishing bail bonds of Rs. 10,000/-

 (Rupees Ten Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount

 each to the satisfaction of the learned trial court where the case

 is pending/successor court in connection with Shakurabad P.S.

 Case No. 23 of 2024 subject to the conditions as laid down

 under Section 438 (2) of the Cr.P.C. 9. However, it is made clear that in the event if the

 Investigating Officer of the case files an application before the

 learned Trial Court bringing to its notice that petitioner despite
 Patna High Court CR. MISC. No.59237 of 2024(2) dt.09-09-2024 4/4 giving assurance to this Court is not co-operating in the

 investigation or is not presenting himself as and when required

 in that event the learned Trial Court shall be at liberty to

 forthwith cancel the bail bonds of the petitioner after recording

 reasons. 10. Let a copy of this order be sent to the concerned P.S.

 through the learned Trial Court. 11. Accordingly, the instant anticipatory bail

 application stands allowed. (Satyavrat Verma, J)
Rishabh/-