1. The petitioner seeks grant of regular bail in respect of a complaint bearing

 no. COMA-2-2021 dated 22.1.2021 under Section 4 read with Section 70 of

 the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (in short hereinafter referred

 to as 'the PMLA'). 2. Since the petitioner was neither initially arrayed as an accused in the

 complaint nor when some FIRs were registered in Haryana and Hyderabad

 pursuant to which some ECIRs came to be registered by Enforcement

 Directorate, the sequence leading to arraying of the petitioner as an accused

 needs to be referred to, which is briefly stated herein-under: 3 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M)

 22.1.2021 : The Enforcement Directorate filed complaint dated 22.1.2021
 (Annexure P-1) before Special Court, Panchkula against
 Radhey Shyam, Bansi Lal and others wherein the petitioner
 was was cited as a witness at Sr. No. 23 in the list of
 witnesses. It may here be mentioned that even in FIR No. 358
 and FIR No. 859 registered in 2018, the petitioner had been
 associated as a witness only. 10.3.2022 : Petioner found to be involved and arrested : Statement of
 petitioner was recorded on various occasions by the
 respondent/ED and thereafter upon finding his direct
 involvement and that he is a beneficiary of crores of rupees,
 arrested the petitioner on 10.03.2022 after recording his
 statement and produced before the court on 11.03.2022 and
 since then he is in custody and at present confined in jail at
 Ambala, Haryana. 7.5.2022 : Supplementary challan filed and petitioner arrayed as an
 accused : While the petitioner initially had been cited just as
 a witness at the time of presentation of complaint against co-
 accused Radhe Shyam, Bansi Lal and others being a software
 expert but upon finding his direct involvement, a
 supplementary complaint was filed against him wherein it is
 specifically alleged that he was part and parcel of the scam
 and had benefited to the extent of about `53 crores. 3. The learned counsel representing petitioner, while pressing for grant of bail,

 submitted that the petitioner had merely been an employee of the company

 of co-accused and was handling the software used by the company to

 maintain its accounts and other business related information and was neither

 any Director or share-holder in the company. It has been submitted that

 whatever amount he had received or had been credited in his account was on

 account of his professional remuneration, being a software expert. KAMAL KUMAR 2022.11.07 13:25 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 4 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M) 4. It has further been submitted that the Enforcement Directorate is resorting to

 pick and choose and that out of the 24 accused, 11 were entities and the

 remaining 13 were individuals and out of the said 13 individuals, 11 were

 never arrested and have been granted bail whereas the petitioner has been

 kept behind bars since the last about 8 months. It has been submitted that

 since trial in its normal course is not likely to conclude in immediate future,

 given the fact that as many as 73 prosecution witnesses have been cited, the

 petitioner cannot be kept behind bars indefinitely. 5. The learned counsel has further submitted that the petitioner weighs 153

 kilograms and has various medical issues and is presently having precarious

 health which is deteriorating by the day and in these circumstances, his

 further custody could prove fatal to his health and life. 6. Opposing the petition, the learned counsel representing the Enforcement

 Directorate has submitted that the petitioner has played a pivotal role in the

 commission of offences inasmuch as he had been managing and handling

 the software which helped the accused to siphon off an amount of about

 `3000 crores which had been invested by innocent investors and since even

 the petitioner had benefited to the tune of `53 crores, his complicity is

 clearly evident. The learned State counsel has further submitted that the

 State is fully responsible for providing necessary medical treatment, as may

 be required, by any under-trial/prisoner and that infact the same is being

 provided to the petitioner and he is being taken to hospital, as and when

 required and as such, the medical condition of the petitioner cannot be made

 a ground for his release on bail, given the fact that Section 45 of PMLA

 imposes stringent conditions for grant of bail. KAMAL KUMAR 2022.11.07 13:25 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 5 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M) 7. This Court has considered rival submissions addressed before this Court. 8. In the instant case, as per the evidence collected during investigation, the co- accused Radhe Shyam and Bansi Lal floated a Ponzi multi-level marketing

 scheme through their companies M/s Future Maker Life Care Pvt. Ltd., M/s

 FMLC Global Marketing Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Fair Deal Import & Export

 Division. The basic scheme of the companies was to allure investors while

 promising lucrative returns. Upon such investors introducing more people

 to invest in the company holding out similar representations of hefty

 benefits, a larger return was promised. The accused persons tried to give

 their ponzi scheme a colour of a legitimate 'direct marketing company' by

 selling membership packages in the form of a kit consisting of a suit length

 and 'health & beauty' products, etc. However, the said items i.e 'health &

 beauty' products etc. were of sub-standard quality and were shown to the

 products being sold so as to avoid detection by law enforcement agencies of

 being a company into illegal business. The actual aim was to associate as

 many members as possible so as to earn maximum commission for all top-

 ranking members in the pyramid scheme and infact the accused Radhe

 Shyam and Bansi Lal, through this Ponzi multi-level marketing scheme,

 were able to allure and cheat around `33 lacs gullible persons across India

 and raised deposits amounting to about `3,000 crores. 9. As per the evidence collected during investigation, including the information

 retrieved from petitioner's laptop, a major component of the amounts so

 collected by ponzi companies run by Radhe Shyam and Bansi Lal and also

 through their associates was transferred to various bogus entities/ shell KAMAL KUMAR 2022.11.07 13:25 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 6 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M)

 companies through bank transfers/RTGS/NEFT bank transactions, in the

 guise of business transactions or was withdrawn as cash. 10. Although the petitioner, who claimed that he was merely looking after

 computer software of the company, had initially been cited as a witness but

 when investigating agency laid its hands on evidence to the effect that he

 and other members of his family had benefited of crores of rupees which

 could not be justified, his complicity became evident. Upon analyzing the

 bank account No.50200010255233 of M/s Future Maker Lifecare Pvt. Ltd.

 maintained with HDFC Bank, Hisar, it was revealed that a substantial

 amount of `15,37,87,088/- was transferred to the bank accounts in name of

 relatives of petitioner namely Poonam Batra w/o Pranjil Batra; Veena Sondhi

 (mother-in-law of Pranjil Batra); Rahul Sondhi (Brother-in-law of Pranjil

 Batra); Suman (wife of Rahul Sondhi) & Rudal Prasad (employee of Pranjil

 Batra). During investigation, the petitioner was found to be maintaining six

 accounts wherein an amount of `4,71,68,931/- was found. The petitioner

 who was looking after the computer software of the company can not feign

 ignorance about the illegal and fraudulent activities of the company which

 had collected about `3000 crores out of which the petitioner also benefited

 of a substantial amount. The details of these transactions were found in

 laptop of petitioner. 11. Though the learned counsel for the petitioner tried to justify his receipts of

 approximately `53 crores as professional fee but upon query made by this

 Court as regards the income-tax returns for previous years indicating such

 huge receipts, no satisfactory information could be furnished. The petitioner

 apparently had been trying to hoodwink the investigation into believing that KAMAL KUMAR 2022.11.07 13:25 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 7 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M)

 he was merely a paid employee of the company being run by Radhey Shyam

 and Bansi Lal. 12. Section 45 of the PMLA 2002 imposes stringent conditions in the matter of

 grant of bail. Section 45 (post amendment in 2018) reads as under: (1-A)Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2
 of 1974), or any other provision of this Act, no police officer shall investigate into
 an offence under this Act unless specifically authorised, by the Central
 Government by a general or special order, and, subject to such conditions as may
 be prescribed; (2) The limitation on granting of bail specified in [***] of sub-section (1) is in
 addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974)
 or any other law for the time being in force on granting of bail.

 Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the expression "Offences to be
 cognizable and non-bailable" shall mean and shall be deemed to have always meant that
 all offences under this Act shall be cognizable offences and non-bailable offences
 notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
 1973 (2 of 1974), and accordingly the officers authorised under this Act are empowered to
 arrest an accused without warrant, subject to the fulfillment of conditions under section 19 and subject to the conditions enshrined under this section. KAMAL KUMAR 2022.11.07 13:25 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 8 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M) 13. Section 45(1) of PMLA 2002, as noticed above, imposes twin conditions

 before bail could be granted to a person accused of having committed an

 offence punishable under the PMLA. As per section 45(1) PMLA, the Public

 Prosecutor was required to be given an opportunity to oppose the plea for

 bail and that where the Public Prosecutor opposed such plea, the Court could

 grant bail only after recording satisfaction that there were reasonable

 grounds to believe that the person to be released was not guilty of the

 offence he was accused of and that while on bail he was not likely to commit

 any offence. 14. It may here be mentioned that the constitutional validity of provisions of section 45 PMLA 2002, imposing the twin conditions for grant of bail,

 which were also there before amendment of section 45 PMLA in 2018, was

 questioned before Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Nikesh Tarachand Shah vs.

 Union of India (2018)11 SCC 1 and the Supreme Court, after holding that

 the prescribed twin conditions for release on bail were violative of Articles

 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India, declared Section 45(1) of the PMLA,

 to that extent, to be unconstitutional. 15. Subsequently, Section 45(1) of the PMLA was amended w.e.f. 19.04.2018. whereby the words "punishable for a term of imprisonment of more than

 three years under Part A of the Schedule" as occurring in Section 45(1) before being declared unconstitutional by the judgment of the Supreme

 Court in Nikesh Tarachand Shah 's case (supra) were substituted with the

 words "under this Act". The validity and interpretation of amended

 provisions later came to be examined by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vijay

 Madanlal Choudhry and others vs. Union of India 2022(10) Scale 577, and KAMAL KUMAR 2022.11.07 13:25 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 9 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M)

 the Supreme Court, while upholding the amended provisions of Section 45 PMLA, wherein the twin conditions in the matter of grant of bail were

 incorporated in the same manner as had been existing before amendment,

 held as under: 16. Thus it is apparent that despite the Supreme Court having declared that the

 twin conditions for release on bail as prescribed by un-amended provisions

 of Section 45(1) of the PMLA,were violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the

 Constitution of India and thus unconstitutional in Nikesh Tarachand Shah's KAMAL KUMAR 2022.11.07 13:25 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 10 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M)

 case (supra), the validity of amended provisions of section 45(1) of PMLA

 was upheld by Hon'ble Supreme Court in a subsequent case i.e. Vijay

 Madanlal Choudhry 's case(supra). In other words the twin conditions

 prescribed in Section 45(1) stood revived with amendment in 2018. 17. Measuring the facts of the present case in context of section 45 of the Act,

 the evidence collected by the investigating agency particularly the

 information found stored in laptop of petitioner and also the bank accounts

 of the petitioner and of other members of his family wherein crores of

 rupees has been credited which remains unexplained, leaves no doubt about

 complicity of the petitioner. Further, having regard to the stakes and the

 amount involved, there is likelihood that the petitioner, in case released on

 bail will flee from justice. It may here be mentioned that much before the

 arrest of the petitioner, a "Look-Out Notice" had been issued on 6.12.2021

 as it was apprehended that he may flee from country. Thus, it can be safely

 be said that the twin conditions prescribed by section 45 of the Act do not

 stand satisfied. 18. However, the matter also needs to be examined with respect to the

 exceptions to the stringent provisions, carved in section 45 of the Act itself.

 The relevant extract from section 45 is reproduced herein-under: 19. It is the specific case of the petitioner that he is suffering from serious co- morbidities and on account of the same his health is fast deteriorating. The

 petitioner relies upon a medical report dated 25.8.2022 (Annexure A-1) of

 Jail Doctor which is reproduced herein-under: 12 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M) 8. That the said prisoner patient was discharged from the same Medical
 Institute on 27.08.2022. 9 All the aforesaid information is based on availability of Medical Treatment
 Record of aforesaid prisoner patient." Sd/- Medical Officer
 Central Jail, Ambala. 20. A perusal of above reproduced medical report shows that the petitioner is an

 obese person weighing 153 kilograms having erratic hypertension and

 diabetes issues. Additionally he is found to be having Coronary Artery

 Disease(CAD). Though, it appears that he was taken to Civil Hospital,

 Ambala and was provided treatment, where he he also remained admitted

 but the Doctor, in the aforesaid certificate, has in unambiguous terms opined

 that the physical health condition of said patient is deteriorating

 considerably. 21. Obesity, as in the case of the petitioner, who weighs 153 kilograms is not

 just a symptom but is itself a disease which becomes root-cause of several

 other diseases. With such co-morbodities, the response, the resistance, the

 resilience and the capacity of the body to fight ailments and recuperate

 efficaciously, decreases substantially. The jail doctor or for that matter, a

 civil hospital may not be fully equiped to handle a patient having multiple

 aiments who apart from medical treatmet may require a certain level of

 monitoring, care and attention which ordinarily is not available in jail.

 Considering the co-morbodities of the petitioner, it can safely be said that he

 falls in the exception of being "sick" as carved out in Section 45 of the Act,

 so as to be entitled tobe released on bail. The petitioner, otherwise has been

 behind bars since the last about 8 months. Supplementary complaint already

 stands presented against him. There is no occasion for his custodial KAMAL KUMAR 2022.11.07 13:25 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 13 CRM-M-23705-2022 (O&M)

 interrogation now at this stage. The co-accused Radhe Shyam and Bansi Lal

 were released on bail immediately upon their appearance in Court pursuance

 to issuance of summons for their appearance. 22. In view of the discussion made above, particularly the precarious medical

 condition of the petitioner, the petition merits acceptance and is hereby

 accepted. The petitioner is ordered to be released on regular bail on his

 furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the satisfaction of learned trial

 Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate concerned. 23. It is, however, clarified that none of the observations made above shall be

 taken to be an expression on merits of the main case.