“The heavy reliance on AI can lead to concentration risks, especially when a small number of tech providers dominate the market. This could amplify systemic risks, as failures or disruptions in these systems may cascade across the entire financial sector,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das highlighted at an RBI@90 High-Level Conference organised by the Reserve Bank of India in New Delhi yesterday.

While acknowledging that “artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) have opened new avenues of business and profit expansion for financial institutions,” he warned that these technologies “also pose financial stability risks.”

More from Das on AI

Das also hinted at moves to reduce the cost of cross-border remittances, saying that “Remittances are the starting point for many emerging and developing economies, including India, to explore cross-border peer-to-peer (P2P) payments. We believe there is immense scope to significantly reduce the cost and time for such remittances.” A key to this might be the expansion of India’s Digital Public Infrastructure, which he said, “has facilitated the development of high-quality digital financial products with enormous potential for cross-border payments.” Add to this his comments on India’s 24×7 Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS), and you have the indication of a plan: “The feasibility of expanding RTGS to settle transactions in major trade currencies such as USD, EUR and GBP can be explored through bilateral or multilateral arrangements.”

Das also pointed towards India’s attempts at Central Bank Digital Currency, i.e. a central bank-run cryptocurrency, saying that “Central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) is another area which has the potential to facilitate efficient cross-border payments. India is one of the few countries that have launched both wholesale and retail CBDCs.”

“Going forward,” he said, “harmonisation of standards and interoperability would be important for CBDCs for cross-border payments and to overcome the serious financial stability concerns associated with cryptocurrencies.”

Das said that with online banking that enables transactions in seconds and “deep social media presence,” banks have to remain alert “in the social media space” because “rumours and misinformation can spread very quickly and can cause liquidity stress.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event