1. The present appeal has been filed by the appellant 2 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 u/s 375 (b) Cr.P.C . challenging legality of sentence passed by Ld.

ACMM in RC.SIB­2004­E0002 in FIR No. 604/02 Police Station

Hauz Khas. 2. Facts giving rise to the present appeal are that FIR

No. 604/02 was registered at Police Station Hauz Khas and

investigation later on was transferred to CBI. The offence in the

present case was disclosed when accused Mansoor Ahmed was

arrested in the case at Police Station Darya Ganj. Accused

Mansoor Ahmed, Mohsin Azim Mullah @ Suleman, Mohd. Asif @

Ashish Patel and Deepak Kudale were having office at Y­24, Green

Park Main, New Delhi in the name and style of M/s City

Enterprises. Upon receiving secret information, raid was conducted

at the aforesaid address. Two accused were found there. The

decoy customer asked for purchasing 1000 revenue stamps on

5% commission but accused Mohd. Asif was giving only 2% 3 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 commission. Upon much insistence, he agreed to give 5%

commission. The decoy customer gave the numbered currency

note and accused Mansoor gave back Rs. 50/­ and the accused

Mohd.Asif handed over the revenue stamps. Both were

apprehended and search was conducted. Stamps worth of

Rs.5,20,888/­ were recovered. Both the accused disclosed that

they were working for Abdul Karim Telgi who was in Bangalore jail

at that time. After completion of investigation, charge sheet was

filed against 16 persons. Since the offences alleged against the

appellant was found triable by the court of Ld. ACMM, therefore,

the case was remanded back to ld. ACMM by Sessions court. 3. Charge was framed against the appellant to which

the appellant pleaded guilty and he has been convicted vide order

dated 23.4.2009 and sentenced vide order dated 11.6.2009 and it

is against this order of sentence, that appellant has filed the 4 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 present appeal. 4. One of the grounds of the appeal is that appellant is

in jail since 05.10.2002 and is not having any money for making

payment of such huge fine of Rs.5 lacs. An opportunity of

reformation should always be afforded to a convict so that he can

lead a normal life on his release into the society. But in the present

case no such opportunity has been afforded to the appellant and

he would be forced to remain in jail for most of his youthful years, if

the impugned order is not set aside. 5. After filing of the appeal, notice was given to the

CBI and the trial court record was summoned. Special PP for CBI

appeared and contested the appeal. 6. I have heard ld. counsel for the appellant and ld.

special PP for CBI and have carefully perused the record. 7. It is an admitted fact that the appellant alongwith the 5 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 other co­accused persons in the present case have pleaded guilty

to the charges framed against him by trial court. The appellant has

been sentenced by the trial court which is as under: 1,00,000/­ (Rupees One lac) u/s 258 IPC and in default of

payment if fine, he shall further undergo rigorous imprisonment for

a period of one year; (c) He is sentenced to undergo rigorous

imprisonment for a period of 5 (Five) years and to pay fine of Rs.

1,00,000/­ (Rupees One Lac) u/s 259 IPC and in default of

payment of fine, he shall further undergo rigorous imprisonment for

a period of one year; (d) He is sentenced to undergo rigorous

imprisonment for a period of 5 (Five) years and to pay fine of Rs.

1,00,000/­ (Rupees One Lac) u/s 420 IPC and in default of

payment of fine, he shall further undergo rigorous imprisonment for

a period of one year; (e) He is sentenced to undergo rigorous

imprisonment for a period of 5 (Five) years and to pay fine of Rs.

1,00,000/­ (Rupees One Lac) u/s 471 IPC and in default of

payment of fine, he shall further undergo rigorous imprisonment for

a period of one year; All the sentences run concurrently. Benefit of set off

u/s 428 Cr.PC . is given w.e.f. 5.10.2002" 8. There is no definite sentencing policy in India and

every case has to be judged on its own facts and circumstances.

The observation of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case 2009 V AD

(S.C. ) 515 titled as Sahdev vs. Jaibar @ Jai Dev & Ors. can

very well be applied in the present case. The Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under:­­ 7 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 "The law regulates social interests, arbitrates conflicting

claims and demands. Security of persons and property of the

people is an essential function of the State. It could be achieved

through instrumentality of criminal law. Undoubtedly, there is a

cross cultural conflict where living law must find answer to the new

challenges and the courts are required to mould the sentencing

system to meet the challenges. The contagion of lawlessness

would undermine social order and lay it in ruins. Protection of

society and stamping out criminal proclivity must be the object of

law which must be achieved by imposing appropriate sentence.

Therefore, law as a corner­stone of the edifice of "order" should

meet the challenges confronting the society. Friedman in his "Law

in Changing Society" stated that, "State of criminal law continues to

be­ as it should be­ a decisive reflection of social consciousness

of society". Therefore, in operating the sentencing system, law

should adopt the corrective machinery or the deterrence based on

factual matrix. By deft the modulation sentencing process be stern

where it should be, and tempered with mercy where it warrants to

be. The facts and given circumstances in each case, the nature of

the crime, the manner in which it was planned and committed, the

motive for commission of the crime, the conduct of the accused, 8 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 the nature of weapons used and all other attending circumstances

are relevant facts which would enter into the area of consideration.

For instance a murder committed due to deep­seated mutual and

personal rivalry may not call for penalty of death. But an organised

crime or mass murders of innocent people would call for imposition

of death sentence as deterrence. In Mahesh vs. State of MP (1987) 2 SCR 710), this court while refusing to reduce the death

sentence observed thus: Therefore, undue sympathy to impose inadequate

sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine

the public confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not

long endure under such serious threats. It is, therefore, the duty of 9 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature

of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or

committed etc. This position was illuminatingly stated by this court

in Sevaka Perumal etc. vs. State of Tamil Nadu (AIR 1991 SC

1463). The criminal law adheres in general to the principle of

proportionality in prescribing liability according to the culpability of

each kind of criminal conduct. It ordinarily allows some significant

discretion to the judge in arriving at a sentence in each case,

presumably to permit sentences that reflect more subtle

considerations of culpability that are raised by the special facts of

each case. Judges in essence affirm that punishment ought

always to fit the crime; yet in practice sentences are determined

largely by other considerations. Sometimes it is the correctional

needs of the perpetrator that are offered to justify a sentence.

Sometimes the desirability of keeping him out of circulation, and

sometimes even the tragic results of his crime. Inevitably these

considerations cause a departure from just desert as the basis of

punishment and create cases of apparent injustice that are serious

and widespread. Proportion between crime and punishment is a goal 10 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 respected in principle, and in spite of errant notions, it remains a

strong influence in the determination of sentences. The practice of

punishing all serious crimes with equal severity is now unknown in

civilized societies, but such a radical departure from the principle of

proportionality has disappeared from the law only in recent times.

Even now for a single grave infraction drastic sentences are

imposed. Anything less than a penalty of greatest severity for any

serious crime is thought then to be a measure of toleration that is

unwarranted an unwise. But in fact, quite apart from those

considerations that make punishment unjustifiable when it is out of

proportion to the crime, uniformly disproportionate punishment has

some very undesirable practical consequences. After giving due consideration to the facts and

circumstances of each case, for deciding just and appropriate

sentence to be awarded for an offence, the aggravating and

mitigating factor and circumstances in which a crime has been

committed are to be delicately balanced on the basis of really

relevant circumstances in a dispassionate manner by the Court.

Such act of balancing is indeed a difficult task. It has been very

aptly indicated in Dennis Councle MCGDautha vs. State of

Callifornia: 402 US 183: 28 L.D. 2d 711 that no formula of a 11 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 foolproof nature is possible that would provide a reasonable

criterion in determining a just and appropriate punishment in the

infinite variety of circumstances that may affect the gravity of the

crime. In the absence of any foolproof formula which may provide

any basis for reasonable criteria to correctly assess various

circumstances germane to the consideration or gravity of crime,

the discretionary judgement in the facts of each case, is the only

way in which such judgment may be equitably distinguished". 9. Reliance is also placed upon 2009 IV AD (S.C.) 1 titled

as State of Karnataka vs. Muralidhar where in Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under:­­

 "The object should be to protect the society and to deter

the criminal in achieving the avowed object of law by imposing

appropriate sentence. It is expected that the courts would operate

the sentencing system so as to impose such sentence which

reflects the conscience of the society and the sentencing process

has to be stern where it should be. Imposition of sentence without considering its effect on

the social order in may cases may be in reality a futile exercise.

The social impact of the crime, e.g. where it relates to offence

against women, dacoity, kidnapping, misappropriation of public 12 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 money, treason and other offence involving moral turpitude or

moral delinquency which have great impact on social order, and

public interest, cannot be lost sight of and per se require

exemplary treatment. Any liberal attitude by imposing meager

sentences or taking too sympathetic view merely on account of

lapse of time in respect of such offences will be result­wise counter

productive in the long run and against societal interest which

needs to be cared for and strengthened by string of deterrence

inbuilt in the sentencing system. The court will be failing in its duty if appropriate

punishment is not awarded for a crime which has been committed

not only against the individual victim but also against the society to

which the criminal and victim belong. The punishment to be

awarded for a crime must not be irrelevant but it should conform to

and be consistent with the atrocity and brutality with which the

crime has been perpetrated, the enormity of crime warranting

public abhorrence and it should "respond to the society's cry for

justice against the criminal". 10. Now coming to the merits of the case, ld. trial court has

rightly observed that magnitude and impact of offence committed 13 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 by the convicts on the society was so adverse that the trust of a

common man in the administration was completely shaken. There

remains no doubt that it is one of the most heinous crimes of the

history. Due to scam the trust of the common man in the

administration was completely shaken. Fake stamps worth

hundreds of crores were got printed and sold to the innocent

customer as genuine stamps in a pre­planned and organized

manner and therefore no undue sympathy can be shown to the

appellant as it may result in common man loss of faith and trust in

the criminal justice administration system also. It will further give

rise to a premium on the offence as instead of a deterrent, image it

will create in the mind of common man will be that after committing

a fraud of such a great magnitude, a person can get free after

spending some time in jail after pleading guilty and paying nominal

fine. 11. The sentence awarded by the ld. trial court

does not call for any interference. There is no infirmity or illegality

in the same. The order of trial court is upheld. The appeal filed by

the appellant is dismissed. There shall be no order as to cost. Trial

court record alongwith a copy of this order be sent back. A copy of

this order be also sent to concerned jail superintendent. Appeal file

be consigned to record room. (MADHU JAIN)
 ASJ­03/NORTH/DELHI

Announced in the open court today i.e. 10.02.2010. An application u/s 5 of Limitation Act for condonation

of delay in filing the present appeal has been filed by the appellant.

In the application, it is stated that the appellant is presently lodged

in Bangalore jail in Karnataka and was unable to engage any

counsel at Delhi directly. His brother Javed Noor Ahmed got the

vakalatnama of the appellant signed on 04.7.2009 from Bangalore

jail but he was unable to travel Delhi as he fell sick due to viral

fever and was advised complete bed rest from 8.7.2009 to

16.7.2009 as a result of which he had to cancel his rail reservation

for 11.7.2009 and he rescheduled his departure for 18.7.2009 and

arrived at Delhi only on 20.7.2009. Thereafter he contacted the

counsel and the counsel for the appellant immediately inspected 16 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 the judicial file and thereafter applied for the certified copies of the

order. Due to the said reason the appellant failed to file the appeal

within the stipulated period and there is delay of 21 days in filing

the present appeal. Alongwith the application, the medical

certificate and train ticket are also attached. It is stated that if the

delay in filing the present appeal is not condoned, then the

appellant shall suffer an irreparable loss. I have heard ld. counsel for the appellant and

special PP for CBI on the application for condonation of delay

alongwith the appeal on merits. Sufficient reasons have been shown by the

appellant for condonation of delay in filing the present appeal.

Furthermore the technicalities should not come in the way of justice

and if the appeal is dismissed without giving an opportunity to the

appellant of being heard, then he shall suffer an irreparable loss 17 Crl.Appl.No. 07/2009 and injury which cannot be compensated in terms of money. As

such sufficient reasons have been shown by the appellant in not

filing the appeal within the stipulated time, the application u/s 5 of

Limitation Act filed by the appellant is allowed. Vide separate order dictated and announced in the

open court, the order dated 23.4.2009 and 11.6.2009 passed by

the trial court is upheld. The appeal filed by the appellant is

dismissed. There shall be no order as to cost. Trial court record

alongwith a copy of this order be sent back. A copy of this order be

also sent to concerned jail superintendent. Appeal file be

consigned to record room. (MADHU JAIN)
 ASJ­03/NORTH/DELHI
 10.2.2010