PER BENCH: 2. The assessee has taken similar grounds in these appeals, which
includes both on legal issues as well as on merits of the case. These
appeals were heard together and therefore for the sake of convenience a
common and consolidated order is being passed. For the sake
completeness, grounds of appeal in I.T.A. No. 475 are reproduced below: 3. At the outset, ld. AR submitted that issue involved in these appeals is
denial of exemption u/s. 10(38) of the Act which the assessee had earned
on the sale of equity shares after holding them for more than a year. It was
submitted that the scrip involved in these appeals is M/s Sulabh Engineers
and Services Ltd. and Income Tax Department on the basis of an
investigation report by investigation wing had held gains from this scrip and
many other scrips as bogus and had therefore made the additions by
treating the long term capital gain as bogus. It was submitted that various
benches of the Tribunal has already allowed relief to various assessees in
the case of this scrip by holding the capital gain earned by the assessees
as genuine. Reliance in this respect was placed on the following case laws: 4. Arguing appeal for Assessment Year 2014-15, the ld. AR submitted
that the assessee was allotted shares by the company and the payment of
which was paid to the company through banking channels and our attention
was invited to paper book pgs. 2 to 8, where a copy of bank account of the
assessee from where the payment was made was placed. Our specific 5 attention was invited to paper book pg. 3, where the payment was reflected
to have been debited to the account of the assessee. Our attention was
further invited to paper book Pg.1 where a copy of allotment letter of shares
to the assessee was placed whereby the assessee was allotted one lac
equity shares @ 20 per share. The ld. AR further took us to paper book
page 25 of AY 2015-16 where a copy of the Demat Account of the
assessee was placed and where ten lac shares allotted by the company
were found credited to this account. It was submitted that assessee was
allotted one lac shares of Rs.10/- each which were split into ten shares for
one share which made ten lac shares of Rs.1/- each.The ld. AR then took
us to paper book pgs. 9 to 14, where the copy of contract notes issued by
the broker M/s India Infoline Ltd. through whom 1,11,700 shares were sold
was placed. We were also taken to paper book Pgs. 16 to 27 where the
bills issued by the broker M/s India Infoline Ltd. were placed. It was
submitted that proceeds of sale of such shares were received by the
assessee through banking channel and in this respect our attention was
invited to paper book Pgs. 2 to 8 where a copy of bank account of the
assessee where the proceeds were credited was placed. In view of above
facts and circumstances, it was submitted that assessee had submitted all
the documents which were required to prove that assessee did earn long
term capital gain on sale of equity shares and on which STT and service
tax was duly paid. It was argued that the various Benches of Tribunal in the
above noted cases have allowed relief to the assessee on the basis of such
evidences therefore, the appeal of the assessee may also be allowed
following the above Tribunal's order. 5. Arguing the appeal in ITA No. 681 it was submitted that in this year
also the assessee had earned long term capital gain on the sale of same
scrip i.e. M/s Sulabh Engineering and Services Ltd. and during this year 6 30000 shares out of the balance shares originally allotted were sold and
our attention was invited to paper book pgs. 11 to 15, where a copy of
contract notes issued by India Infoline Ltd. was placed. Our attention was
further invited to paper book Pgs. 17 to 19, where a copy of account of the
broker India Infoline Ltd. was placed and where the proceeds of sale of the
shares was credited to the account of the assessee. Our further attention
was invited to paper book Pgs. 2 to 10 where a copy of bank statement of
assessee was placed and wherein the proceeds were credited for the sale
of such shares. It was further submitted that in this year besides the issue
of long term capital gain there was an issue of deposit in the bank account
of the assessee. The Ld. AR submitted that such deposits were made out
of cash sale for the period 01.04.2014 to 31.03.2015 and further submitted
that certain bank statements could not be submitted to substantiate the
cash deposits. The reason for non submission of such documents was that
though assessee had submitted these documents to his counsel but he did
not file the same. It was submitted that assessee was dependent on his
counsel under a bonafide belief that same would have been filed and he
could not follow as he was suffering from cancer and in this respect our
attention was invited to paper book Pages 52 to 64 where copies of
prescriptions were placed. Therefore, it was prayed that the additional
evidences filed by the assessee before this Tribunal may be admitted. 6. The ld. DR, on the other hand, submitted that the investigation
department of the income tax department had carried out investigation and
had found various scrip which various assessees were using for converting
their unaccounted money into accounted money after managing long term
capital gains from certain scrips with the help of intermediaries. It was
submitted that investigation wing of the department had carried out
extensive investigation after recording statements of various brokers and 7 such brokers had admitted that such scrips were used for providing
accommodation entries in the form of long term capital gain. Ld. DR in this
respect invited our attention to findings of Assessing Officer and ld. CIT(A)
and heavily placed reliance on them. It was submitted that the scrip on
which the assessee earned long term capital gain was also mentioned in
that investigation report. It was further submitted that the long term capital
gain claimed by the assessee was his own unaccounted money which he
had converted into tax free capital gain with the help of brokers and inter
mediatories. Therefore, the appeals of the assessee should be dismissed. 7. As regards filing of additional evidences, the ld. DR submitted that
these evidences on the first hand should not be admitted and if admitted
same may be sent back to Assessing Officer for examination of such
evidences. 8. We have heard the rival parties and have gone through the material
placed on record. We find that there is no dispute between the parties
regarding the evidences which the assessee had produced before the
authorities below for claiming that assessee indeed was allotted one lac
shares @ Rs.20/- each and which were sold partly during AY 2014-15 and
partly during AY 2015-16. There is also no dispute regarding contract
notes issued by the brokers and proceeds paid by them through banking
channels. The only dispute between the parties is that Assessing Officer on
the basis of a report from investigation wing of the Department has held the
capital gain to be bogus and has held the amount of capital gain as
assessee's own money being unaccounted money converted into
accounted money by managing the capital gains. The assessee, on the
other hand, produced before the authorities below evidences for allotment
of shares and for making payment to the company directly through banking
channels. Copy of allotment letter from the company is placed at paper 8 book pg.1 whereby the company had acknowledged the receipt of Rs.20.00
lacs and had allotted one lac shares to the assessee. The payment to the
company was made from the bank account of the assessee, a copy of
which is placed in paper book Pg. 2 to 8. A part of the shares were sold by
India Infoline Ltd. in the two years and the contract notes issued by India
Infoline are placed in paper book Pgs. 9 to 14 and 11 to 15 in the two years
respectively. Copy of Demat Account of the assessee where the shares
allotted by company were credited and from where the shares were sold is
placed at paper book pgs. 33 to 40 and 24 to 31 respectively in the two
years. The copy of bank account wherein the proceeds were credited is
placed at pgs. 2 to 8 and 2 to 10 respectively for both years. From the
contract notes issued by the broker India Infoline Ltd. we find that assessee
had paid service tax and STT and shares were sold through screen based
transactions wherein the exact time and order numbers are mentioned.
The copy of Demat statement of assessee shows credit of ten lac shares
and on sale of 1,11,700 during the AY 2014-15 the balance is reflected at
8,88,300 shares as on 31/03/2014 (PB-26) and on sale of 30,000 shares
during AY 2015-16, balance shares are reflected at 8,58,300 as on
31/03/2015 (PB-27). These balance shares of 8,58,300 are reflected in the
Demat statements upto 31/03/2019. From the Demat statement, we further
observe that assessee was holding certain other scrips also. The
assessee, therefore, had filed sufficient evidences to prove the
genuineness of the transactions but authorities below has rejected the
claim of the assessee on the basis of an investigation report of the
Department whereby the scrip was held to be penny stock which was being
used for providing bogus long term gains. We find that the Kolkata Tribunal
in ITA 2467/Kol/2017, vide order dated 10.5.2018 has considered a similar
issue of the same scrip M/s Sulabh Engineers and Services Ltd. and has
allowed relief to the assessee by holding as under: The ld AR submitted that similar view has been taken in the following judgments
while deciding the issue relating to exemption claimed by the assessee on LTCG on
allegedPenny Socks. The ld AR referred to the following judgments in support of this contention wherein
under similar facts of the case it was held that the AO was not justified in refusing
to allow the benefit under section 10(38) of the Act and to assess the sale proceeds
of shares as undisclosed income of the assessee under section 68 of the Act :- We note that in the case relied upon by the ld. D.R, we find that the facts are
different from the facts of the case in hand. Firstly, in that case, the purchases were
made by the assessee in cash for acquisition of shares of companies and the
purchase of shares of the companies was done through the broker and the address
of the broker was incidentally the address of the company. The profit earned by the
assessee was shown as capital gains which was not accepted by the A.O. and the
gains were treated as business profit of the assessee by treating the sales of the
shares within the ambit of adventure in nature of trade. Thus, it can be seen that in
the decision relied upon by the ld. DR, the dispute was whether the profit earned on
sale of shares was capital gains or business profit. 16. It is clear from the above that the facts of the case of the assessee are similar
 with the facts in the cases wherein the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal has
 deleted the addition and allowed the claim of LTCG on such sale of shares
 Therefore, respectfully following the same ratio, I am inclined to set aside the order
 of Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO not to treat the long term capital as bogus and
 order to allow the claim of LTCG on sale of share of M/s. SESL and delete the
 consequential addition." 9. As the issue is squarely covered in favour of the assessee by the decision of the
 SMC bench of ITAT Kolkata, and there is no change in facts and law and the
 Revenue is unable to produce any material to controvert the aforesaid findings of
 the SMC Bench in the case of Vasudha Jain (supra), we find no reason to interfere
 in the said order of the SMC Bench of this Tribunal and the same is hereby upheld.
 Therefore, we delete the addition of Rs.1,12,13,010/- and we also delete the
 consequential addition on account of unexplained expenditure towards commission
 at Rs.56,065/-. 10. In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed." 9. Similarly the Chennai Bench of ITAT in ITA 384 vide order dated
18.06.2019 in the case of same scrip of M/s Sulabh Engineering Ltd. has
allowed relief to the assessee. Similar is the position of SMC bench
Kolkata, whereby in ITA No. 2378 vide order dated 07.08.2019, the
Tribunal allowed relief to the assessee. Again SMC Kolkata Bench in ITA
1018 vide order dated 15.02.2019 allowed relief to the assessee on the
same scrip and similar is the position of B bench of Kolkata wherein vide
order dated 10.05.2019 in ITA Nos. 125 and 126 the same scrip of Sulab
Engineering and Services Ltd. was considered and relief was granted to
the assessee. 9.1 We further find that in a recent judgment by the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court vide order dated 15.01.2021 in an appeal filed by Revenue against
the order of Tribunal the Hon'ble Court in a consolidated order in three
appeals dismissed the appeals of the Revenue. In I.T.A. No.125, on the
basis of same investigation report, the Assessing Officer and CIT(A) had
not allowed claim of the assessee of long term capital gain on the scrip M/s
Gold Line International Finvest Ltd. In I.T.A. No. 130 and 131 similar claim 12 was made on scrip of M/s Eastern Bio Organic Food Processing Ltd. and
on scrip of Rander Corporation Ltd. The authorities below had not allowed
claim of the assessee on the basis of same investigation report on the
basis of which claim of the assessee has been rejected. These scrips are
mentioned at Sl. No. 24, 19 and 49 in the list of penny stocks prepared by
investigation team. The Tribunal however allowed relief to the assessee by
separate orders which were confirmed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court. The
relevant findings of Hon'ble court are reproduced below: The above noted factors, including the deficient enquiry conducted by the AO
and the lack of any independent source or evidence to show that there was an
agreement between the Respondent and any other party, prevailed upon the
ITAT to take a different view. Before us, Mr. Hossain has not been able to
point out any evidence whatsoever to allege that money changed hands
between the Respondent and the broker or any other person, or further that
some person provided the entry to convert unaccounted money for getting
benefit of LTCG, as alleged. In the absence of any such material that could
support the case put forth by the Appellant, the additions cannot be sustained. 12. Mr. Hossain's submissions relating to the startling spike in the share price
and other factors may be enough to show circumstances that might create
suspicion; however the Court has to decide an issue on the basis of evidence
and proof, and not on suspicion alone. The theory of human behavior and
preponderance of probabilities cannot be cited as a basis to turn a blind eye
to the evidence produced by the Respondent. With regard to the claim that
observations made by the CIT(A) were in conflict with the Impugned Order,
we may only note that the said observations are general in nature and later in
the order, the CIT(A) itself notes that the broker did not respond to the
notices. Be that as it may, the CIT(A) has only approved the order of the AO,
following the same reasoning, and relying upon the report of the Investigation
Wing. Lastly, reliance placed by the Revenue on Suman Poddar v. ITO ( supra) and Sumati Dayal v. CIT (supra) is of no assistance. Upon examining
the judgment of Suman Poddar (supra) at length, we find that the decision
therein was arrived at in light of the peculiar facts and circumstances 17 demonstrated before the ITAT and the Court, such as, inter alia, lack of
 evidence produced by the Assessee therein to show actual sale of shares in
 that case . On such basis, the ITAT had returned the finding of fact against the
 Assessee, holding that the genuineness of share transaction was not
 established by him. However, this is quite different from the factual matrix at
 hand. Similarly, the case of Sumati Dayal v. CIT (supra) too turns on its own
 specific facts. The above-stated cases, thus, are of no assistance to the case
 sought to be canvassed by the Revenue. 13. The learned ITAT, being the last
 fact-finding authority, on the basis of the evidence brought on record, has
 rightly come to the conclusion that the lower tax authorities are not able to
 sustain the addition without any cogent material on record. We thus find no
 perversity in the Impugned Order. 14. In this view of the matter, no question
 of law, much less a substantial question of law arises for our consideration. 15. Accordingly, the present appeals are dismissed." 10. In the above noted judgment, the Hon'ble court has held that startling
spike in the share price and other factors may be enough to show circumstances
that might create suspicion but the Court has to decide an issue on the basis of
evidence and proof, and not on suspicion alone. The Hon'ble court further
distinguished the judgment in the case of Suman Podar which was in favour of
Revenue. The Hon'ble court further held that case of Sumati Dayal u/s CIT was
also not applicable to the assessee. The Hon'ble court further held that reliance
placed by the Assessing Officer on the investigation report of Investigation Wing
without further corroboration on the basis of cogent material does not justify his
conclusion that the transaction is bogus, sham and nothing other than a racket
of accommodation entries. 11. In view of above facts and circumstances and in view of judicial
precedents, Ground Nos. 3 and 4 are allowed in ITA No. 475/Lkw/2019 and
Ground No. 1, 2, 5 & 6 were not argued, therefore, same are dismissed as
not pressed. In view of above, appeal in ITA no. 475/Lkw/2019 is partly
allowed. 12. As regards, appeal in ITA No. 681/Lkw/2019, Ground Nos. 5 and 6
are allowed. Ground Nos. 1 to 4 and ground No. 7 to 8 were not argued,
therefore, these grounds are dismissed as not pressed. As regards ground 18 No. 9 and 10, the Assessing Officer had made additions u/s 69C as
deemed commission on the arrangement of capital gains. Since we have
allowed relief to the assessee on ground No. 5 & 6, therefore, these
grounds are also allowed. 13. As regards grounds 11 to 13 regarding deposit in bank, the assessee
has filed additional evidences which could not be filed because of mistake
of counsel and illness of assessee therefore, we deem it appropriate to
remit this issue back to the office of the Assessing Officer who, after
affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to the assessee, will pass
appropriate orders. In view of the above, ground No. 11 to 13 are allowed
forstatistical purposes. 14. In view of above, appeal in ITA No. 681 is also partly allowed and
partly allowed for statistical purposes. 15. In the combined result, Appeal No. 475 is partly allowed whereas
Appeal in ITA No. 681 is partly allowed for statistical purposes.