These were some of the key points raised at MediaNama’s ‘Decoding India’s Data Protection Bill’ event held on January 19 and 20, 2022, wherein Supreme Court advocate Vrinda Bhandari, Executive Director for Center for Internet and Society Amber Sinha, Senior Resident Fellow at Vidhi Center for Legal Policy Lalit Panda, and lawyer Prasanna S shared their thoughts on the Data Protection Bill 2021 and the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) report on the Bill, both of which were tabled in Parliament in December 2021.

This discussion was organised with support from Google, Flipkart, Meta, and Star India, and in partnership with ADIF. To support future MediaNama discussions, please let us know here .

Lalit Panda said that the bill has removed purpose specification, and replaced it with a purpose limitation provision that equated purposes with grounds. “So that provision is now gone. That provision which said that purposes must be specific, now there is only a provision which says processing of personal data shall be subject to provisions of this act and the rules and regulations made thereunder,” he added.

Recommendation: Amber Sinha recommended that provisions of purpose distribution and collection limitation, which have been removed from the bill, be inserted back.

Vrinda Bhandari opined that the Right to be Forgotten would be the most used provision of the Data Protection Bill.

“I think there’s going to be, there will be misuse, I think 100% yes it is an important right. I have always been just a little bit suspect of how broadly it can be implemented.” – Vrinda Bhandari, Supreme Court advocate

Recommendation: “I think companies do need to take that stand. And not just, you know, over-comply, if necessary, even if it’s going to be expensive, obviously go before the Adjudicating Officer and fight it out. But I obviously understand that cost considerations will probably ensure that that doesn’t happen,” Bhandari said.

Lalit Panda said that there are similar provisions in both Right to be Forgotten and Right to Erasure/Correction. “In a sense, the person has a choice. They can go under the right to erasure and say that listen, I said, erase my name and then you have to erase it and then there is the right to be forgotten,” he said.

Recommendation: Panda said a policy has to be formulated which would lay down when to forward requests under Right to Erasure or Right to be Forgotten. “Perhaps the erasure provision should be entirely removed from where it is currently placed alongside correction, and made only a question of the right to be forgotten,” he added.

Panda also pointed out that there was an overlap between provisions of the Right to Data Portability and the Right to Access in the current draft of the bill. While portability allows one to get a copy of one’s data, Right to Access also allows a user to avail the same feature.

Which provision do you invoke to retrieve your data from the government ? “Do you go under portability, where you’re not allowed –  you can’t get it from the government?  Or do you go under access, which literally says that the government has to give you access to your data?” Panda asked.

Also Read:

What changes do you want in the Data Protection Bill from a company’s perspective? Do leave a comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event