The plaintiff has sought to recover the balance portion of the claim

under an insurance policy along with interest thereon in this suit from

the defendant. Learned Senior Advocate for the plaintiff has submitted that, the

plaintiff had obtained an insurance policy from the defendant. The

plaintiff had suffered the risk covered under such policy. The tea crops

insured by the policy were damaged due to Cyclone. The plaintiff had

lodged its claim with the defendant. The defendant had allowed a
 portion of the claim. The plaintiff had, thereafter, called upon the

defendant to pay the balance of the insurance claim. The plaintiff had

also sought for the calculation of the claim allowed by the defendant. In

spite of such request, the defendant had refused to pay the balance of

the insurance claim and furnish the calculation. He has referred to Section 64UM of the Insurance Act, 1938 and has submitted that, the

defendant is obliged to furnish the Surveyor's Report. The defendant not

having furnished such Surveyor's Report, the Court should draw an

adverse inference. He has submitted that, the plaintiff has established

its claim. He has highlighted the fact that, the defendant did not

produce any witness at trial. He has referred to the letters exchanged

between the parties and has submitted that, the plaintiff had within the

reasonable period of the acceptance of the cheque protested against the

unilateral action of the defendant. The plaintiff had no option than to

accept the cheque. The acceptance of the cheque and the execution of

the document being Exhibit 'L' cannot be construed as accord and

satisfaction. The defence of accord and satisfaction taken by the

defendant is without any basis. On such issue he has relied upon 2009

Volume 1 Supreme Court Cases page 267 ( National Insurance

Company Limited v. Boghara Polyfab Private Limited ), 2011

Volume 2 Supreme Court Cases page 400 ( R.L. Kalathia and
 Company v. State of Gujarat ), 2012 Volume 12 Supreme Court

Cases page 513 ( Durga Charan Rautray v. State of Orissa & Anr. ),

2004 Volume 2 Supreme Court Cases page 663 ( Chairman and MD,

NTPC Ltd. v. Reshmi Constructions, Builders & Contractors ), 2009

Volume 10 Supreme Court Cases page 354 ( Asian Techs Limited v.

Union of India & Ors. ), 1889 Vol. XXII Queen's Bench Division page

610 (Day & Anr. v. McLEA & Anr.) and 1957 Volume 1 Weekly Law

Reports page 356 (Neuchatel Asphalte Co. Ltd. v. Barnett). In

support of his submissions that, when best evidence is not produced by

the party, adverse inference should be drawn against such party, the

learned Senior Advocate for the plaintiff has relied upon All India

Reporter 1999 Supreme Court page 1341 ( Iswar Bhai C. Patel v.

Harihar Behera & Anr. ). Learned Senior Advocate for the defendant has submitted that, the

plaintiff had obtained the payment under the insurance policy

concerned in full and final satisfaction of its claim. He has referred to

Exhibit 'L' which is the discharge voucher. He has submitted that, the

plaintiff did not claim either contemporaneously or in the plaint of the

suit that, Exhibit 'L' is vitiated by coercion, undue influence or mistake.

Such facts not being established Exhibit 'L' has to be held as the

complete discharge of the defendant's liabilities toward the plaintiff.
 Consequently, the plaintiff is not entitled to any amount from the

defendant. In support of his contentions of accord and satisfaction

learned Senior Advocate for the defendant has relied upon 1994 Supp.

Volume 3 Supreme Court Cases page 83 ( State of Maharashtra v.

Nav Bharat Builders ), 2011 Volume 10 Supreme Court Cases page

420 ( Cauvery Coffee Traders, Mangalore v. Hornor Resources

(International) Company Limited ) and 2011 Volume 12 Supreme

Court Cases page 349 ( Union of India & Ors. v. Master

Construction Company ). Learned Senior Advocate for the defendant has relied upon an

unreported decision of this Hon'ble Court delivered in A.P. No. 19 of

2009 ( Pallorbund Tea Ltd. v. National Insurance Company

Limited ) and has submitted that, the plaintiff here, as the petitioner in

a petition under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,

1996 had sought an appointment of an arbitrator in respect of another

policy for the same period. There the Hon'ble Court was pleased to hold

that, the voucher executed by the plaintiff was in complete discharge of

the liabilities of the defendant. He has submitted that, the facts of the

arbitration proceedings are identical to that obtaining in the present

suit. Consequently according to him, the plaintiff is not entitled to any

amount from the defendant. The issues settled by the judgment and order dated July 3, 2012 for

trial in the instant suit are as follows:- (b) If so, what is such amount ? 2. (a) On what basis the defendant has claimed in paragraph 13 its

written statement that they have paid Rs.14,76,378/- in full and final

settlement of the plaintiff's claim ? (b) Is the defendant's claim justified ? 3. To what relief if any, the plaintiff is entitled for ?

The plaintiff had applied for a Marine Tea Crop Policy with the

defendant. Such policy was entered into between the parties. The

insurance policy was for the period of April 1, 2003 to March 31, 2005.

On April 13 and April 14, 2004 the area in which the estate of the

plaintiff is situated had suffered heavy rain and cyclone. Consequently,

the plaintiff had suffered damages on account of Made Tea and Tea

Waste. The plaintiff had by a letter dated April 15, 2004 being Exhibit

'B' informed the defendant of the loss suffered and requested for
 appointment of a Surveyor for assessment of the losses. The defendant

had appointed a Surveyor. The Surveyor appointed by the defendant had caused an inspection and

had submitted a report dated June 12, 2004 being Exhibit 'I'. The

plaintiff had thereafter by a letter dated June 28, 2004 being Exhibit 'J'

submitted its claim with the defendant. The plaintiff had claimed a sum

of Rs.32,58,791/-. The plaintiff had, thereafter, received a sum of Rs.

14,76,378/- in respect of the insurance policy. The plaintiff had issued

a receipt dated March 30, 2005 in respect thereof, being Exhibit 'L'.

Exhibit 'L' bears the seal of the plaintiff. It is signed by the authorized

signatory of the plaintiff. The plaintiff is a company incorporated and

registered under the Companies Act, 1956 . By a letter dated May 9,

2005 being Exhibit 'M' the plaintiff had requested for a copy of the

Survey Report, copy of the Investigator's Report as well as the

computation of loss assessed by the defendant. The defendant by a

writing dated July 15, 2005 being Exhibit 'N' replied to Exhibit 'M'. The

defendant claimed that payment of Rs.14,76,378/- was made on full

and final settlement basis. By a letter dated August 20, 2005 being Exhibit 'O' the plaintiff

reiterated its request for the document sought for by Exhibit 'M'. By a
 letter dated May 13, 2005 the defendant referring to Exhibit 'M' stated

that the concerned divisional office will let the plaintiff know of the

details of the computation of the claim. By a letter dated February 7,

2006 being Exhibit 'V' the plaintiff had raised the issue that, the

question of full settlement and satisfaction did not arise. It had claimed

that, the discharge voucher was signed on the understanding that the

defendant will pay the balance amount later. By Exhibit 'W' being a

letter dated February 22, 2006 the plaintiff had demanded the balance

amount from the defendant. The plaintiff thereafter caused its Advocate

to issue a letter dated September 9, 2006 being Exhibit 'X'.

The defendant has taken the plea of accord and satisfaction. The

defendant has relied upon Exhibit 'L' in support of the contention that

the plaintiff had received full and final settlement of its claim under the

subject insurance policy. Exhibit 'L' is a printed form. Exhibit 'L' is a

discharge voucher of the defendant. Various portions of the blank

spaces of the Exhibit 'L' were filled by handwriting of the defendant.

Various other places have also not been filled up. The discharge

voucher speaks that the plaintiff had received the sum of

Rs.14,76,378/- in respect of the policy concerned on full settlement and
 satisfaction basis. It is signed by the authorized signatory of the

plaintiff. The plaintiff has not made out a case of coercion, undue influence or

mistake in executing the discharge voucher being Exhibit 'L'. In respect

of another insurance policy relating to the same incident of Cyclone

involved for the period, the plaintiff had issued a similar discharge

voucher in favour of the defendant. Claiming that the plaintiff did not

receive full settlement and satisfaction of its claim, the plaintiff had

applied under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

for appointment of an Arbitrator being A.P. No. 19 of 2009

( Pallorbund Tea Ltd. v. National Insurance Company Limited ).

Such petition was dismissed by a judgment and order dated May 12,

2010. It has been held there that, the claim of the plaintiff does not

survive the issuance of such discharge voucher. A discharge voucher

using the same words is involved in the present case. The plaintiff was

found not to be entitled to claim any amount after a similar discharge

voucher was issued in respect of the another policy relating to the same

period. The authorities on accord and satisfaction cited at the Bar on behalf

both the sides state that, a Court has to see on the facts available
 whether the parties had entered into an accord and satisfaction. The

plaintiff has not made out a case of coercion, undue influence or

mistake in the plaint. The plaintiff has not pleaded fraud. An identical

discharge voucher executed by the plaintiff was found to be a sufficient

and a valid discharge of liabilities of the defendant in respect of another

insurance policy for the same period. In Exhibit 'V' the defendant by its

letter dated February 1, 2006 has suggested that, the discharge

voucher was not executed on the basis of full and final settlement and

that it was signed on the understanding that, the defendant will pay the

balance amount later. The alleged understanding has not been

established in evidence. The witness of the plaintiff has not identified

any person of the defendant with whom such alleged understanding

was entered into. In fact, the plaintiff had proceeded on the basis that,

Exhibit 'L' is an accord and satisfaction scenario while writing the letter

being Exhibit 'V'. It has tried to explain Exhibit 'L' in Exhibit 'V'.

However, it has not been able to establish its stand taken in Exhibit 'V'

with regard to Exhibit 'L' in the evidence led at trial.

In such circumstances, the discharge voucher being Exhibit 'L' is valid

and binding on the plaintiff. The plaintiff is not entitled to claim any

amount from the defendant in respect of the concerned insurance policy
 in view of the full settlement and satisfaction being recorded on behalf

of the plaintiff in Exhibit 'L'. The defendant has not pressed the first issue. The first issue is,

therefore, not answered. Since by Exhibit 'L' the plaintiff had accepted the sum of

Rs.14,76,378/- as full and final payment, the two parts of the second

issue is answered accordingly. The plaintiff not being entitled to any other relief, the third issue is

answered accordingly. C.S. No. 156 of 2007 is dismissed without any order as to costs.

The department is directed to draw up and complete the decree as

expeditiously as possible. [DEBANGSU BASAK, J.]