ASHOK BHUSHAN, J. This Appeal by an Operational Creditor has been filed challenging the

Order dated 05.03.2024 passed by the Learned Adjudicating Authority

(National Company Law Tribunal, New Delhi Bench, Court - II), rejecting a

Section 9 Application filed by the Appellant. 2. Brief facts of the case giving rise to this Appeal are: ii. The Agreement mentioned that Agreement is entered into between the

 Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and any of its affiliates domicile

 in India that issue Work Orders under this Agreement, collectively

 Amazon of the first part and Multiplier Brand Solutions Private Limited

 for service provider as second part. iii. The Agreement provided that service provider will provide services to

 Amazon on non-exclusive basis in accordance with the terms and

 conditions of the Agreement. iv. A Novation and Substitution Agreement was entered on 01.04.2021

 between Amazon Seller Services Private Limited, Transferor, Amazon

 Wholesale (India) Private Limited, Transferee and Multiplier Brand

 Solutions Private Limited for replacing the Transferee with Transferor

 in relation to under the Principal Agreement. Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 2 of 25
 v. The Agreement provided that Transferor will relinquish and waive of all

 its rights, interest, liabilities and obligations under the Principal

 Agreement and Transferee will entitled to all such rights, interests and

 will discharge all such liabilities/obligations of Transferor under the

 Principal Agreement. vi. Master Service Agreement was renewed with effect from 01.05.2021,

 which was executed between Amazon Wholesale (India) Private Ltd. and

 Multiplier Brand Solutions Private Limited. vii. The Amazon Wholesale (India) Private Limited issued Purchase Order

 from 06.10.2022 to 04.05.2023, pursuant to Purchase Order,

 Operational Creditor, rendered deployment of manpower and related

 services for Amazon Device Project and raised invoices totalling to

 ₹3,69,57,379/-. Invoices were between 30.03.2023 to 26.05.2023. viii. Appellant requested the Respondent seeking approval of the invoices. Appellant received the response that invoices are approved for

 processing. Email dated 02.05.2023 was also received from the

 Corporate Debtor that 2 invoices are ready for payment but delayed for

 Settlement. Appellant sent various reminders to the Respondent

 requesting for clearing the outstanding dues. ix. The Corporate Debtor wrote to the Operational Creditor, vide email

 dated 02.06.2023, the Corporate Debtor has asked the Operational

 Creditor to share several data. There being allegations of fake data

 submitted by Operational Creditor with regard to its Amazon other

Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 3 of 25
 project with regard to which investigation had commenced by the

 Appellant itself several documents was called by Corporate Debtor. The

 Corporate Debtor also asked for supplying the findings relation to

 investigation carried on by the Multiplier Brand Solutions Private

 Limited with regard to fake data. x. There was email correspondence between the Parties. The Operational

 Creditor had wrote email dated 12.06.2023 to the Corporate Debtor,

 informing that on the basis of information shared due payment for

 Amazon Device be released which is kept on hold. xi. The Corporate Debtor replied vide email dated 16.06.2023, that data is

 ready for internal investigation and the decision shall be taken

 regarding payment hold, only after the Corporate Debtor has completed

 the review. xii. The Operational Creditor sent a Demand Notice dated 06.11.2023,

 demanding an amount of ₹3,69,57,379/- as on 03.11.2023, with

 interest of 18%. xiii. Demand Notice was replied by the Corporate Debtor vide email dated

 18.11.2023 refuting the claim of the Appellant for payment of the

 amount. In the Reply to Demand Notice, the Corporate Debtor has

 detailed the correspondence between the Parties prior to issuance of

 Demand Notice where the Corporate Debtor has disputed the claim of

 the Appellant. Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 4 of 25
 xiv. Section 9 Application was filed by the Appellant on 29.11.2023. Appellant also on 01.12.2023 issued an Arbitration Notice for an

 amount of ₹3,18,13,923/- which Arbitration Notice was also responded

 by Corporate Debtor. Respondent filed Reply to Section 9 Application

 to which Rejoinder was filed. Adjudicating Authority heard the Parties

 and by Order dated 05.03.2024, dismissed Section 9 Application on the

 ground that there are Pre-Existing Dispute between the Parties, hence

 the CIRP against the Corporate Debtor cannot be commenced. xv. Challenging the Order impugned, this Appeal has been filed. 3. We have heard Learned Sr. Counsel Mr. Neeraj Malhotra appearing for

the Appellant and Learned Sr. Counsel Mr. Krishnendu Dutta appearing for

the Respondent. 4. Learned Sr. Counsel for the Appellant challenging the Order contends

that dispute with regard to fake invoices issued by employees and staff of the

Appellant relate to another project i.e. Vodafone, and the Appellant itself has

commenced investigation with regard to invoices and fraud committed by

some of the employees of the Appellant, which investigation and allegations

have no concern with the invoices which are subject matter of Section 9

Application. It is submitted that 8 invoices on basis of which the Section 9

Application was filed where invoices issued subsequent to the Novation

Agreement between the Parties dated 01.04.2021. It is submitted that there

is no dispute with regard to 8 invoices which was issued by the Appellant

between the period 30.03.2023 to 26.05.2023, totalling to ₹3,69,57,379/-. It

Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 5 of 25
 is submitted that said invoices were also approved by the Corporate Debtor. An email was received from the Corporate Debtor that invoices are ready for

payment but delayed due to Settlement. Appellant sent various reminders to

the Corporate Debtor for payment of outstanding amount. No outstanding

payments having been received Demand Notice under Section 8 was issued

on 06.11.2023 to which a Reply dated 18.11.2023 was received from the

Corporate Debtor. In the Reply to the Demand Notice, Corporate Debtor has

raised issues pertaining to ongoing investigation with regard to transaction

pertaining to Vodafone Project, which have no concern with the invoices which

are subject matter of Section 9 Application. There being no dispute with

regard to invoices which have been raised by the Appellant in pursuance of

Purchase Order received from Corporate Debtor, any alleged dispute with

regard to invoices with regard to another Project can be no ground to contend

that there is any Pre-Existing Dispute. It is submitted that Arbitration Notice

which has been issued by the Appellant does not cover the invoices and the

amount which are subject matter of Section 9 Proceeding. Adjudicating

Authority failed to appreciate that there is no Pre-Existing Dispute between

the Appellant and the Respondent, Corporate Debtor. Alleged dispute relied

by the Adjudicating Authority was between Appellant and Amazon Seller

Services Private Ltd., which is an entity different from Corporate Debtor. Amazon Seller Services Private Ltd. and Amazon Wholesale (India) Private Ltd. are two different legal entities. The Police Complaint which was filed by the

Appellant dated 24.02.2023 and 30.03.2023, pertains to business transaction

with Amazon Seller Services Private Ltd. and not with the Corporate Debtor. Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 6 of 25
 Appellant had Suo Motu taken cognizance of the allegation and engage Ernst

and Young to conduct fact finding in the said matter. Investigation

undertaken by Ernst and Young pertains to Vodafone Project which project

was being undertaken by the Appellant with Amazon Seller Services Private

Ltd. and not with the Corporate Debtor. 5. Learned Sr. Counsel Mr. Krishnendu Dutta appearing for the Corporate

Debtor refuting the submissions of the Counsel for the Appellant contends

that by Novation Agreement dated 01.04.2021, all the liabilities/rights,

interest entitlement obligations inter see between Amazon Seller Services

Private Ltd. and Amazon Wholesale (India) Private Ltd. have been taken over

by the Corporate Debtor. Transaction between the Appellant and Amazon

Seller Services Private Ltd. cannot be said to be alien to the transaction

between the Appellant and Corporate Debtor. Corporate Debtor has taken

liabilities under the Master Service Agreement. Corporate Debtor is entitled

to review the earlier transaction though done much prior to issuance of

Demand Notice by Operational Creditor. Corporate Debtor has brought into

the notice of the Appellant, its objections and the payment to the Appellant

was put to on hold till the entire transaction which are under investigation

are reviewed and resolved. It was brought into the notice of Appellant that

99% data with regard to services provided by the Appellant to the Amazon

Seller Services Private Limited were forged and fictitious due to which excess

amount has already been paid. Appellant himself has filed Police Complaint

alleging fraud committed by its own employees in transaction with Amazon

Seller Services Private Ltd. Appellant itself has entrusted the investigation of

Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 7 of 25
 entire transaction to Ernst and Young, which Report has never been shared

with the Corporate Debtor. Large scale fraud having been committed by the

staff and employees of the Appellant in transaction providing service with the

Amazon Seller Services Private Ltd, the Corporate Debtor had rightly withhold

the payment under invoices as claimed by the Appellant. The Corporate

Debtor is entitled for rights, interest and liabilities which was pertaining to

Master Service Agreement by virtue of Novation and Substitution Agreement

dated 01.04.2021, hence the transaction which cause rights, liabilities and

obligations on Corporate Debtor are relevant and any dispute raised with the

entitlement of the Appellant under such transaction under which huge excess

payment has been made are relevant factor on basis of which there were hold

on the amounts payable to the Appellant under the invoices. There being

clear cut Pre-Existing Dispute between the Parties, Adjudicating Authority did

not commit any error in rejecting Section 9 Application filed by the Appellant. 6. We have considered the submissions of Counsel for the Parties and

perused the record. 7. A Master Service Agreement was entered on 27.01.2020 between the

Amazon Seller Services Private Ltd. and its affiliates with Multiplier Brand

Solutions Private Limited, the Appellant herein. The Master Service Agreement

in beginning itself notices following: 8 of 25
 Road, Bangalore - 560055 and any of its Affiliates
 domiciled in India that issue Work Orders under this
 Agreement (collectively, "Amazon"), of the First Part;
 AND Multiplier Brand Solutions Private Limited
 (formerly known as Multipliermudra Brand Solutions
 Private Limited) a company registered under Companies Act, 2013 with PAN No. AAKCM7037Q and
 having its registered office at B-1/G-3 2nd Floor,
 Mohan Co-op. Industrial Estate, Main Mathura Road
 Delhi - 110044 (hereinafter referred to as "MBSPL" or
 "Service Provider" which expression shall unless
 repugnant to the subject or context shall mean and
 include its successors, permitted assigns, and
 administrators) of the other Second Part. For the purpose of this Agreement, the term "Affiliate"
 shall mean "any entity in which Amazon or its group
 companies have directly or indirectly, certain economic
 interest". For avoidance of doubt, any reference to an
 Affiliate of Amazon under this Agreement shall mean
 "an Affliate domiciled in India". Amazon and the Service Provider are hereinafter
 individually referred to as a "Party" and collectively
 referred to as "Parties"." 8. Clause 1.1 to 1.4 deals with the services and payment, are as follows: 9 of 25
 It is further clarified that nothing in this Agreement
 prevents Amazon or any of its Affiliates from procuring
 same or similar Services from any other third party.
 1.2. Work Orders. This Agreement governs each
 Work Order, except that any conflict between the terms
 of this Agreement and a Work Order will be resolved in
 favor of the Work Order, if the Work Order explicitly
 states that it is intended to modify the conflicting terms
 of this Agreement. This Agreement does not obligate
 Amazon to engage Service Provider to perform any
 Services, or Service Provider to perform any Services,
 until both Parties have signed a Work Order. Both
 Parties must sign a Work Order for it to be effective.
 Notwithstanding the aforesaid, (a) Work Order will be
 binding on both Parties if Service Provider: (a) signs
 and it to Amazon; (b) begins performance; or (c)
 acknowledges it by email, facsimile or any other
 commercially reasonable means. If Service Provider
 commences Services for Amazon in the absence of a
 Work Order and Amazon accepts such Services, this
 Agreement will nevertheless apply. unless the Parties
 otherwise mutually agree in writing. Service Provider
 will, at no cost to Amazon, promptly and satisfactorily
 correct any Services or Work Product found to be
 defective or not in conformity with the requirements of
 this Agreement and the applicable Work Order.
 1.3. On-Site Services. If Service Provider provides
 Services on Amazon premises, Service Provider will,
 and ensure that its Personnel will: (a) abide by all
 Amazon's rules, policies, and procedures regarding
 such matters as safety, security, health, environmental
 and hazardous material management, misconduct,
 physical aggression harassment and theft (collectively,
 "Rules"); and (b) at Amazon's request, remove and
 promptly replace any Personnel (defined in Section 6 below) performing Services who behaves in a manner
 that is unlawful or inconsistent with any Rules.
 1.4. Payment / Records. Amazon will pay Service
 Provider as provided in the Work Order. Service
 Provider is entitled to no other compensation or
 reimbursement for the Services. The Service Provider
 shall be solely responsible for all other compensation
 to its Personnel, including any statutory contributions
 that are required and maintain all other compliances
 that may be required under applicable Laws in respect
 of its Personnel. In the event Amazon is required to

Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 10 of 25
 make any payments in respect of any Personnel or any
 Claims, Amazon shall have the right amongst others,
 to adjust the same against any sum payable to the
 Service Provider under this Agreement. Service
 Provider will, in accordance with generally accepted
 accounting standards, keep copies of all books and
 records relating to the Services during the Term of this
 Agreement and for a period thereafter as required
 under applicable laws. Amazon may upon reasonable
 notice and during normal business hours examine and
 make copies of all books and records relating to the
 Services. Service Provider will provide at least as
 favorable pricing treatment, as the pricing provided to
 any other entity or person purchasing services
 substantially similar to the Services. If Service Provider
 provides services substantially similar to the Services,
 at prices better than the prices extended to Amazon
 hereunder, the Service Provider shall offer at least the
 same favorable pricing to Amazon, on all subsequent
 purchases of the Services." 9. The above Master Service Agreement clearly provided that the

Agreement was with respect to Work Orders which were to be issued by

Amazon Seller Services Private Limited or any of the affiliates of the Amazon

group. Novation and Substitution Agreement was executed on 01.04.2021,

which reads as under: 110044 (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"
 which expression will unless / repugnant to the
 meaning or context thereof, be deemed to mean and
 include successors and permitted assigns).
 In this Agreement, Transferor, Transferee, and
 Company are collectively referred to as the "Parties"
 and individually as the "Party" Any capitalized term and expression used in this
 Agreement but not specifically defined herein, will
 have the same meaning and construction as defined or
 construed in the Principal Agreement (as defined
 below), unless the subject or context is repugnant
 thereto." 10. Clause 1 of the Agreement provides as follows: 11. Now we come to the case taken by the Appellant in Section 9 Application. Appellant's case is that after the Novation Agreement dated

01.04.2021, Work Orders were received from the Corporate Debtor and in

pursuance of which services were provided and invoices were issued by the

Appellant from 30.03.2023 to 26.05.2023, totalling to ₹3,69,57,379/-. Appellant sent the various emails and reminders to the Corporate Debtor for

payment of the aforesaid amount of ₹3,69,57,379/-. There was

correspondence between the Parties in the above regard. When amounts were

not paid the Section 8 Notice were issued by the Appellant on 06.11.2023. Section 9 Notice was issued where Purchase Order and payment pertaining

to invoices from 30.03.2023 to 26.05.2023 was claimed Master Service

Agreement as well as Novation Agreement was relied in the Section 8 Notice. The Notice was replied by the Corporate Debtor vide email dated 18.11.2023. In the Reply Notice, the Corporate Debtor has denied and disputed the

contents of Demand Notice and pleaded that it does not owe Multiplier Brand

Solutions Private Limited any debt. In the Reply Notice, it was pleaded by the

Corporate Debtor that review indicates that Multiplier Brand Solutions Private

Limited was misrepresenting and inflating sales figures for the services

provided under the Master Service Agreement. In Paragraphs 4 to 7 of the

Reply Notice following has been pleaded: Multiplier's behavior is indicative of not just a
 contractual breach but also discloses a dishonest
 intention, as the withholding of information gives rise
 to the presumption that the information disclosed
 would establish the fraud already brought to
 Multiplier's attention. 6. It has emerged that the services provided by
 Multiplier under the MSA and the purported sales
 facilitated by the employees deployed by Multiplier
 were illegally and intentionally misrepresented and
 inflated on the basis of false invoices. Similarly,
 Multiplier's invoices were being artificially inflated
 based on phantom sales purportedly facilitated by
 Multiplier's employees, when the sales were actually
 through the Amazon marketplace. Such fabrication
 could not have been possible without the connivance
 and active role of Multiplier and its employees.
 Multiplier is responsible for the actions of its employees
 as per the MSA and under law, as Multiplier was the
 principal employer of these employees. 7. The MSA clearly and unequivocally states that
 Multiplier will be responsible for all acts, omissions,
 negligence and misconduct of its employees performing
 the services and Multiplier will be solely responsible for

Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 14 of 25
 all threat, damage and misconduct related to its
 employees." 12. It was further pleaded by the Corporate Debtor that Multiplier Brand

Solutions Private Limited has issued Demand Notice despite being aware that

Amazon has been investigating transactions regarding Vodafone Project. Correspondence dated 12.06.2023 and 16.06.2023 was also referred to and

it was pleaded that Appellant is also participating in the fact finding exercise. It was further pleaded that Multiplier Brand Solutions Private Limited is

admitted that its employees have been guilty of fraud. Following was pleaded

in Paragraph 12 & 13 of the Reply, which is as follows: 13. In the Reply Notice, further under the heading "Discovery of Multiplier's

artificial and inflated invoicing" has been dealt in Paragraphs 19 & 20, which

is as follows: 14. Under the heading "Pre-Existing Dispute as disclosed in

correspondence with Multiplier". In Paragraphs 21 to 25, following is pleaded: "Pre-existing dispute as disclosed in
 correspondence with Multiplier 21. The discrepancies about inflated invoices and
 excess amounts paid to Multiplier were brought to
 Multiplier's notice as far back as the meeting on June
 02, 2023. From Multiplier's behalf, Mr. Sameer Mehta
 (CEO and Managing Director), Ms. Reema Arora
 (Director - Finance and Accounts), Mr. Rupinder Singh
 (Director - Managed Services), and Mr. Parveen
 Choudhary (General Manager - Legal) attended the
 meeting. 22. During this meeting, parties discussed all
 businesses where Multiplier provided services to
 Amazon. Multiplier also informed Amazon that it had
 engaged EY to conduct a fact-finding exercise.
 Multiplier explained its operations and services
 provided to Amazon. Undisputedly, there were gaps in
 the explanations and documents were required to
 support the concerns that were discussed during the
 meeting. Therefore, Amazon sent an email dated June
 02, 2023 after the meeting, asking for specific and
 material documents and information. The information
 sought inter alia, all invoices raised on Amazon by

Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 16 of 25
 Multiplier, including A WIPL. The invoices were sought
 in order to investigate and verify the services provided
 by Multiplier under the MSA. 23. In light of the above, Multiplier has been aware of
 the concerns raised by Amazon, including AWIPL. In
 response to the request for information, Multiplier
 shared partial information by an email dated June 12,
 2023 and informed Amazon that the data compilation
 was taking time due to the voluminous nature of the
 requisition. Multiplier also requested Amazon to
 release payments towards various projects. 24. Amazon responded to Multiplier by email on June
 16, 2023 and requested Multiplier to share the pending
 data at the earliest as it has been more than two weeks
 since its request. Amazon also requested Multiplier to
 arrange a meeting with the EY team investigating the
 issues on Multiplier's behalf. Notably, Amazon
 clarified that the requested data was necessary
 to complete the internal investigation and that
 the decision regarding payments, including
 payments from AWIPL, could only be made after
 the review was completed. 25. Amazon continued to follow-up for the pending
 documents. Multiplier shared partial information on the
 Vodafone Project and the Devices Project by an email
 dated July 24, 2023. This clearly demonstrates the
 understanding between both parties that the concerns
 regarding inflated invoices and phantom services
 infected all services provided by Multiplier, including
 the invoices being demanded by Multiplier in the
 Demand Notice. These included services provided to
 AWIPL as well as services issued under the MSA,
 which was subsequently assigned to AWIPL. Therefore, AWIPL had a claim under the MSA as a
 counter-party to Multiplier both prior to the assignment
 as well as post assignment till the termination of MSA." 15. When we look into the Reply given by the Corporate Debtor to the

Demand Notice, the Reply Notice clearly indicates that Notice of dispute was

issued by Corporate Debtor, raising several issues, including the Pre-Existing

Dispute. Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 17 of 25 16. Learned Counsel for the Appellant has contended that issue of fake

invoices which has been raised by the Corporate Debtor for which documents

and data has been called for from the Appellant relate to different project i.e.

Vodafone Project, whereas invoices which are subject matter of Section 9 Application relates to different project, i.e. Amazon Devices, hence, any issue

pertaining to fake/inflated invoices are with respect to different Project and

cannot be a reason to conclude that there is any Pre-Existing Dispute with

regard to claim which is subject matter of Section 9 Application. There is no

dispute between the Parties that the issues of inflated invoices which was

flagged by the Corporate Debtor was with respect to Project Vodafone. It is

however, relevant to notice that the service which was provided to by the

Appellant with regard to Vodafone Project was also under the Master Service

Agreement. Master Service Agreement which was initially entered between

Amazon Seller Services Private Ltd. and the Appellant was subsequently

novated with Amazon Wholesale (India) Private Limited, the Corporate Debtor. 17. We have already noticed the relevant Clauses of Agreement dated

01.04.2021, under which the Transferee i.e. Amazon Wholesale (India) Private

Limited has taken all rights, interest and liabilities and obligations under the

Principal Agreement. It is clear from Clause 1.2 of the Agreement which is to

the following effect: 18. When the Corporate Debtor is entitled to all rights, interests and has to

discharge all liabilities obligations of Transferor under the Principal

Agreement, any entitlement or liability of it, which flow from the Master

Service Agreement has to be shouldered/claimed by the Corporate Debtor. It

cannot be said that inflated invoices which is claimed to have been issued by

staff and employees of the Appellant though related to the different Project

under the same Master Service Agreement is alien or foreign to claim which

has been raised by the Appellant. In the present case, after coming to know

about the issue of inflated invoices, Appellant itself has commenced

investigation and filed the Police Complaint as well as directed for

investigation through Ernst and Young, which is an admitted fact. Appellant

in his Appeal has brought on record the Police Complaint which was

submitted by Appellant on 24.02.2023. In the Police Complaint under the

heading "suspected fraud related details" following has been stated: 19 of 25
 incident prime accused Deepak Kharakia was
 terminated from company on his acceptance of theft as
 he agreed to refund the amount of the aggregate value
 of 28 nos of handsets to the company and pleased not
 to initiate any action as it would ruin his career.
 But while enquiring with Deepak Kharakia and
 conducting further fact finding, we realized that there
 could be a bigger fraud with many persons being
 involved and in connivance and hence started a
 detailed fact finding and enquiry at our end.
 Meanwhile our client Amazon has done some internal
 validation of sale data and has apprehended that the
 abuse of data is 99% and a huge fraud has been
 committed which means the total sale of handset
 reported is wrong vs the actual verified monthly data
 of sale of handsets, and the unique id created by sale
 of handsets by the representative in Vodafone store is
 also not a valid unique id. For example, December'22
 data is annexed as Annexure 1 with this letter to
 explain about how total sale of handset vs validated
 sales by the Amazon team is having huge difference
 and as per Amazon team, the fraud is committed to the
 extent of 99% of the figures put by the sales team
 which means the sale data is wrong or manipulated
 leading to wrongful loss for Amazon, Multiplier and
 wrongful gain to some persons who have manipulated
 the data, committed fraud and have pocketed the
 wrongful gains." 19. Appellant has also conducted its investigation and suspected fraud was

flagged in its Report. It was in the above background that when the Appellant

has written emails and reminders of payment, Corporate Debtor, vide email

dated 02.06.2023 has asked for several documents and details for its review. The email dated 02.06.2023, which was sent has been captured by in

Paragraph 11 of the Impugned Order, which paragraph is as follows: 20 of 25
 qua it. With reference to the e-mail dated 02.06.2023,
 which was sent by the Corporate Debtor to the
 Petitioner much before 03.11.2023 i.e. the date on
 which the Petitioner issued demand notice, Mr.
 Krishnendu Dutta submitted that the Corporate Debtor
 has raised the dispute regarding genuineness of the
 claims/invoices raised by the Petitioner right from the
 year 2017. The e-mail reads thus:- 21 of 25 i) Invoices for salary payments along with
 employee wise payment breakup, proof of
 payments such as salary slips, pf returns. ii) Invoices for mobile devices/lease
 reimbursement along with payment proof,
 original invoice, list of mobile devices iii) Invoices for incentive along with employee
 wise computations, proof of payments,
 approvals taken etc. iv) Invoices for expense reimbursements with
 proof of payments, supporting documents
 9 Relevant email communications with
 Amazon POC wherein approvals were
 obtained for incentives, salary,
 reimbursement, store opening and payment
 approvals. 10 Attendance records of all the employees
 working under the program since 2017
 11 Agreements and all subsequent addendums
 entered with Amazon
 12 SOPs prepared to operate under this
 program, if any. 13 Copy of complaints filed against employees
 working under the program
 14 Findings in relation to investigation carried
 out by Multiplier
 15 Meeting with EY team who is conducting this
 investigation from March 23
 16 All the invoices raised, in addition to listed
 above, by Multiplier on Amazon from 2017 till
 date

 Please let me know shall you need any clarification
 regarding this. Best regards,
 Devender" Rupinder Singh [email protected] ;
 Reema Arora [email protected] Subject: RE: [EXTERNAL] Privileged and
 confidential_Data needed
 Dear Devender,
 You are requested to take note that since the data
 compilation is voluminous and taking a lot of time for
 us, we are in the process of collating the same and
 hence are sharing the data on a financial year basis.
 The below indicated data is for the period of FY 2022-
 23 for Amazon Vodafone Project. As your have been aware, we have always been totally
 transparent on the data and Standard Operating
 Procedure (SOP) adopted with the Amazon team, and
 we assure you that the same transparency and
 adherence to the SOP shall continue from our side for
 your records and verifications. We request that on the basis the information shared
 with you, our due payments for (Amazon Device,
 Amazon Global, Amazon Design team) be released
 which as of now are kept on hold by your team, this is
 required your urgent attention !
 Needless to say, we shall be pleased to provide our
 best at all times. Best regards,
 Praveen Choudhary" 22. The above correspondence between the Parties which relates to the

payments which are subject matter of Demand Notice and Section 9 Application is clear communication by Corporate Debtor that payments have

been put on hold indicates that there was dispute raised by Corporate Debtor

with regard to entitlement and payment of the invoices which are subject

Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 24 of 25
 matter of Section 9 Application much before issuance of Demand Notice dated

06.11.2023. 23. Thus, it is clear that the claim of Appellant for payment of invoices

which are subject matter of Section 9 Application was disputed much before

Demand Notice was issued. 24. In facts of the present case, Adjudicating Authority has not committed

any error in refusing to initiate CIRP, there being Pre-Existing Dispute which

is reflected with the correspondence which took place between the Parties

much prior to issuance of Demand Notice. 25. We, thus are satisfied that no error has been committed by the

Adjudicating Authority in rejecting Section 9 Application filed by the

Appellant. There is no merit in the Appeal. The Appeal is dismissed. [Justice Ashok Bhushan]
 Chairperson

 [Barun Mitra]
 Member (Technical)

 [Arun Baroka]
 Member (Technical)

NEW DELHI

21st November, 2024

himanshu

Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No. 746 of 2024
 25 of 25