This is a petition under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. for directing the

official respondents to constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed

by an Officer not below the rank of Deputy Inspector General to investigate

into the criminal acts of a gang which is involved in extortion of huge sums

of money by honey trapping innocent people, in collusion with some police

officials. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the

petitioner has given a representation dated 01.11.2021 to the Director

General of Police, Haryana, Panchkula, in which a complaint has been

made against five persons, including a lady and it has been detailed that the

said gang, in collusion with some police officials, honey traps some persons

and thereafter, by threatening them to implicate in false cases, extract huge

 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 16-01-2022 13:29:18 ::: -2- CRM-M-51023-2021

sums of money from them. In the representation, details of the phone calls

and the numbers from which the petitioner had received phone calls as well

as the detailed incident which had occurred between the petitioner and the

lady in question has been detailed. The police officials who had sought to

extract money from the petitioner have also been named in the

representation. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the

petitioner has made a video recording as well as recorded audio calls in

order to prima facie prove that there is a gang which is actively honey

trapping people in order to extract money from them. Learned counsel for

the petitioner has also referred to another FIR i.e. FIR No.354 dated

02.10.2020 (Annexure P-5), which was registered by the same lady in

question, by making allegations of wrongful acts done by another person. The allegations made in the said representation and also in the

present petition are grave and very serious, inasmuch as, it shows that even

some police officials are involved in honey trapping people and extorting

money from them. In view of the above, this Court deems it appropriate to

dispose of the present petition with a direction to respondent No.1-Director

General of Police, Haryana, Panchkula, to mark an inquiry to a Senior

Officer not below the rank of Deputy Inspector General, to inquire into the

matter as has been detailed by the petitioner and in this process, hear the

pleas to be raised by the petitioner and consider the evidence/documents/

video recording/statements, which the petitioner would submit before the

said Officer and then, take appropriate action, in accordance with law. The

Director General of Police, Haryana, Panchkula, is directed to mark the

inquiry to the Officer as stated above, within a period of 15 days from the

 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 16-01-2022 13:29:18 ::: -3- CRM-M-51023-2021

date of receipt of a certified copy of this order. The said Officer is directed

to give notice to the petitioner and afford an opportunity of hearing to the

petitioner and after considering the material that will be provided by the

petitioner, take an appropriate action, in accordance with law. Disposed of in view of the above terms. It is, however, clarified that this Court has not gone into the

merits of the case and the action sought to be taken would be after

considering the material in the inquiry conducted by the Senior Officer, in

accordance with law. (VIKAS BAHL)
 JUDGE
December 06, 2021.