This suit is filed by the plaintiff against the defendants for
declaration that the sale deed dated 05.04.2018 in favour of
defendant No.5 to 22 is null and void and also for mesne profits. 2. The brief facts of the case of the plaintiff are
summarized as under:- 3. Despite service of suit summons, none of the
defendants appeared before the Court and accordingly they have
been placed exparte. 4. To substantiate her claim, the plaintiff has deposed
before the Court as P.W.1 and she has produced five documents
marked from Ex.P.1 to Ex.P.5. 5. The counsel for the plaintiff submitted arguments. 6. On hearing and on perusal of materials and evidence
on record, following points arise for consideration of this Court:- 1) Whether the plaintiff proves that the
 defendant Nos.1 & 2 have entered into a sale 10 O.S.No.1083/2020 agreement with her with respect to suit
 schedule property under a registered sale
 agreement dated 16.10.2015 by receiving the
 entire sale consideration amount of
 Rs.22,00,000/- from her? 2) Whether the plaintiff further proves the
 alleged default committed by defendant Nos.1
 & 2 in executing the registered sale deed in
 her favour as per the terms of the sale
 agreement? 3) Whether she further proves that now all the
 defendants have fraudulently got executed a
 registered sale deed dated 05.04.2018 with
 respect to suit schedule property in favour of
 defendant No.5 to 22? 4) If so, whether the plaintiff is entitled to seek
 the declaratory relief as sought for in para- 19(a) of the plaint? 5) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to claim mesne
 profits as sought for in para-19(b) of the
 plaint? 6) What order or decree? 7. The findings of this Court on the above points are as

under:- 8. Point Nos.1 to 5:- Since all these points are
interconnected, they are tried together to avoid repetition of facts.
It is the specific claim of the plaintiff that she along with her
deceased husband and her daughter, was jointly running a ice
factory in a rented premises and during the year 2015 they
planned of securing a site of their own to shift their business from
the tenanted premises where they were running their factory and
accordingly they entered into the suit sale agreement dated
16.10.2015 with the owners of the suit schedule property i.e.,
defendant Nos.1 & 2. According to her claim under this sale
agreement defendant Nos.1 & 2 agreed to sell the suit schedule
property to her for a total sale consideration of Rs.26,00,000/- out
of which she paid Rs.22,00,000/- as earnest amount to defendant
Nos.1 & 2 on the date of execution of the sale agreement which
was duly registered. However it is the further claim of the plaintiff
that since defendant Nos.1 & 2 had mortgaged the schedule
property for availing a bank loan by depositing all the original title
deeds of the suit schedule property with the bank, they were
raising funds for getting released the schedule property and the
original title deeds and hence the plaintiff did not pressurize them
for completion of the sale transaction. 9. The plaintiff has also stated that during the
intervening period during 2016-17 her husband seriously fell ill
and ultimately he passed away on 21.12.2017 and thereafter they
suffered huge business loss and were also exploited by the
factory owner and also by the BESCOM authorities in connection
with payment of electricity bills with respect to their factory and in
resolving all these issues, considerable time was consumed due
to which she could not follow the issue regarding execution of the
sale deed from defendant Nos.1 & 2. However it is her grievance
that taking advantage of this situation, defendant Nos.1 & 2 in
order to defraud her, illegally transferred the schedule property in
favour of defendant No.3 on 08.12.2015 and defendant No.3 in
turn, transferred the same under a registered sale deed dated
12.01.2017 in favour of defendant No.4 who in turn, entered into
a subsequent sale agreement dated 15.02.2018 with one E.K.
Hussain and subsequently sold the schedule property to
defendant Nos.5 to 22 under a registered sale deed dated
05.04.2018. It is the claim of the plaintiff that she could learn
about all these illegal sale transactions inter-se defendant No.1 to
22 only recently and therefore according to her claim, since she is
having a valid and enforceable sale agreement in her favour
which has already created a legal charge which is still subsisting
on the title of the schedule property and hence, she has retained
her legal right to purchase it since she has been already parted
with the entire sale consideration amount with defendant Nos.1 & 2. For these reasons she has sought for a declaratory relief
regarding nullity of the disputed sale deed dated 05.04.2018 in
this suit. 10. To dispute or controvert the claim of the plaintiff,
admittedly we have no defence from any of the defendants since 13 O.S.No.1083/2020 none of them have attempted to appear before the Court to
contest the matter as they have been placed exparte. However
even in the absence of any defence from the defendants, the
initial burden is cast on the plaintiff to prove her case
independently. As already discussed above, to substantiate her
claim the plaintiff has deposed before the Court as P.W.1 and she
has relied on five documents of which Ex.P.1 is the original
registered sale agreement dated 16.10.2015 executed by
defendant Nosa.1 & 2 in her favour with respect to the suit
schedule property. The online certified copy of the sale deed
dated 12.03.2020 executed by defendant Nos.14, 15 and 18 to 22
in favour of D.23 is produced as per Ex.P.2. The encumbrance
certificate pertaining to the suit schedule property is produced at
Ex.P.3. She has also produced the sale agreement dated
15.02.2018 executed in favour of D.23 as per Ex.P.4. She has
also produced the certified copy of the sale deed dated
15.04.2018 executed by defendant No.4 in favour of defendant
No.5 as per Ex.P.5. 11. In the backdrop of the above oral and documentary
evidence placed before the Court by P.W.1, now it is to be seen
whether she could prove her entitlement to seek the suit reliefs.
Under Ex.P.1 sale agreement dated 15.10.2015 which is a
registered document, it is shown that defendant Nos.1 & 2 had
agreed to sell the suit schedule property to P.W.1 for a total sale
consideration of Rs.26,00,000/- and received Rs.24,00,000/- as
advance amount. P.W.1 is shown to have agreed to pay the
balance sale consideration amount of Rs.2,00,000/- within 3
months from the date of the said agreement. It is revealed from
this document that the parties had agreed to get completed the
sale transaction after defendant Nos.1 & 2 being the vendors get 14 O.S.No.1083/2020 cleared the outstanding loan amount and after getting released
the original documents from the bank which were mortgaged to
avail the loan. Thus it is revealed from this agreement that the
transaction was agreed to be completed only after the
performance of the above said obligations and acts by the
vendor. Prima-facie this document indicates that the vendor had
to get cleared the encumbrance with respect to the suit schedule
property and thereafter to executed the registered sale deed in
favour of P.W.1. 12. No doubt from Ex.P.1 agreement it is shown that the
vendor had obligation to perform those acts referred to therein
and it was only after completion of those acts the sale transaction
was to be concluded, but it is to be noted that this agreement was
entered into in the year 2015. Under such circumstances what
prudent efforts P.W.1 had made to demand the execution of the
sale deed in her favour as per the agreed terms from the vendors
defendant Nos.1 & 2, is the material aspect which she has to
prove before the Court. However it is relevant to note that as per
her own documents at Ex.P.4 & 5 itself there was subsequent
sale transaction between defendant No.4 & 5 with respect to
same property on 05.04.2018 as per Ex.P.5 under which
defendant No.4 had sold the suit schedule property in favour of
defendant No.5 and again as per Ex.P.4 once again defendant
No.4 has sold the said property in favour of one E.K. Hussain.
Both these documents are registered sale deeds which have
come into existence in the year 2018 itself. 13. Thus, from the above registered sale transactions in
favour of D5 to 22 it could be inferred that the purchasers under
these documents must have purchased the schedule property
only after defendant Nos.1 & 2 as vendors, had got cleared the 15 O.S.No.1083/2020 encumbrance on the suit schedule property and also after getting
released the original title deeds pertaining to the suit schedule
property. Therefore a reasonable question certainly arises as to
what efforts the present P.W.1 had made to get completed the
sale transaction covered under Ex.P.1. No explanation is offered
by her in this regard. Therefore merely because she had entered
into a registered sale agreement under Ex.P.1 by paying huge
sum towards advance sale consideration amount to defendant
Nos.1 & 2 and that the sale transaction was to be completed after
defendant Nos.1 & 2 performing certain acts as narrated supra,
that itself is not sufficient unless and until P.W.1 could establish
before the Court that she was ever ready and willing to perform
her part of contract to get completed the sale transaction.
However no documents, much less any legal notice is produced
before the Court by P.W.1 to show that she had called upon
defendant Nos.1 & 2 demanding the completion of sale
transaction as per the terms of Ex.P.1. 14. Therefore when the readiness and willingness on the
part of PW1 to complete the sale transaction is not proved by her
with cogent evidence, the only inference which has to be drawn is
that she had slept over her right for all these years since 2015 or
2018 till 2020. Even otherwise it is to be noted that under the
present suit the plaintiff has sought for nullity of the disputed sale
deed dated 05.04.2018 executed by defendant No.4 in favour of
defendant Nos.5 to 22 i.e., Ex.P.5 sale deed without seeking for
the cancellation of the subsequent sale transaction which even
according to her was entered into between D.14, 15, 18 to 22 and
D.23 who was subsequently impleaded in the proceeding. 15. It is pertinent to note that even after impleading D.23
in the proceeding, P.W.1 has not sought for any declaratory relief 16 O.S.No.1083/2020 regarding cancellation of this sale deed dated 12.03.2020
executed in favour of D.23. Under such circumstances when no
such additional relief has been sought for by the plaintiff against
the subsequent purchaser D.23, who has already acquired a
registered sale deed in his favour with respect to the suit
schedule property, the relief which has been sought for in the suit
at para-19(a) of the plaint has become redundant. Therefore
when even after execution of Ex.P.5- sale deed which is sought
to be nullified in the present suit already the suit schedule
property has been further sold in favour of D.23 as per
subsequent registered sale deed, unless and until that
subsequent sale deed is cancelled or set aside, the relief as
prayed for in the present form in this suit cannot be granted which
has become infructuous as on today. 16. It is further pertinent to note that though P.W.1 has
sought for declaration regarding the disputed sale deed at Ex.P.4
executed earlier in favour of D.5 to 22, but it is an admitted fact
that till this date she is merely holding a sale agreement as per
Ex.P.1 in her favour. It is material to note that though a
declaratory relief regarding nullity of the sale deed has been
sought for by the plaintiff, but she has not sought for the
substantive relief of specific performance of contract against
defendant Nos.1 & 2 or the rest of the defendants based on
Ex.P.1, because her entire claim is based on this sale agreement.
When she is a mere agreement holder with respect to the suit
schedule property, the appropriate relief which ought to have
been claimed by her was for specific performance of contract.
Unless and until such substantive relief is sought for by the
plaintiff, this Court cannot grant the other reliefs particularly with
regard to the subsequent series sale transactions entered into 17 O.S.No.1083/2020 between defendant Nos.1 to 23 till this date. Therefore the very
frame of the suit and the relief sought for in the present form by
the plaintiff are incapable of enforcement. 17. However, it is urged on behalf of the plaintiff that the
defendants have not attempted to appear before the Court to
contest the claim of the plaintiff and hence, the plaintiff is entitled
to the suit reliefs. This line of argument canvassed on behalf of
the plaintiff is totally misconceived for the reason that as
discussed above, from the own pleadings and the nature of reliefs
sought for by PW1 itself it cannot be said that she is entitled to
seek any of the suit reliefs. When the plaintiff herself has failed to
discharge the initial burden of proving all the above points in
order to seek the suit reliefs, she cannot rely on the weakness or
infirmities crept in the defence of the defendant. It is a well settled
position of law that non-examination of the defendants in a suit
will not in all circumstances, entitle the plaintiff to seek the reliefs
when the initial burden of proving the disputed issues involved in
the suit itself could not be discharged by the plaintiff. This position
of law is settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a decision
reported in Pandurang v/s Ramchandra in AIR 1981 SC 2235
as under: 18. One more material aspect which invites consideration
at this juncture is that though P.W.1 has repeatedly urged that
under Ex.P.1 she has parted with a huge sum of Rs.24,00,000/-
by way of payment of entire sale consideration amount to
defendant Nos.1 & 2, but even there is no specific relief, much
less any alternative relief sought for by her for refund of the said
earnest amount from defendant Nos.1 & 2. However a desperate
attempt is made by P.W.1 by urging before the Court that by
holding Ex.P.1 sale agreement which is a registered instrument in
her favour, she is still entitled to seek for the suit reliefs. This
claim of P.W.1 cannot be sustained, because Ex.P.1 is though a
registered document it is merely an agreement of sale with
respect to suit schedule property without delivery of possession of
the suit schedule property in her favour. On the contrary
subsequent to the execution of Ex.P.1 in the year 2015 there
have been series of sale transactions with respect to the said
property inter-se defendant Nos.1 to 23 which consequently
establish that under those registered sale transactions entered
into between defendant Nos.1 to 23 at different points of time,
even the vendors have delivered the physical possession of the
suit schedule property to all these subsequent purchasers. Under
such circumstances without seeking for the relief of specific
performance of contract against the defendants, nor seeking for
the alternative relief of refund of earnest amount, the plaint
presented and the reliefs sought for in the present form are totally
unsustainable both under law or on facts. Consequently, it is to 19 O.S.No.1083/2020 be held that the plaintiff has failed to prove any of the above
points to seek the suit reliefs. Hence all these points are
accordingly answered against the plaintiff in the negative. 19. Point No.6:- In the light of the findings given on the
above points and in the facts and circumstances of the case the
parties to this suit are hereby directed to bear their own cost of
litigation. In the result, the Court hereby proceeds to pass the
following:- ANNEXURE

List of witnesses examined for the plaintiff: