SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Scammed and Assulated by a Religious baba !
DATE: 2024-09-26
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1fq12e4/scammed_and_assulated_by_a_religious_baba/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today, while waiting for the bus, a man dressed as a baba approached me, asking for donations to feed hungry children. I had some food with me and offered to give it to him, but he insisted on money instead. I only had a small change, so I gave him a coin, but then his scam began.

Just after that He asked for a 10-rupee coin and insisted I should make a wish."Baba sabki ardas puri karte h " I know these talks are to extort people in the name of God and I wasn’t interested, but he continued to smooth-talk me , he gained my trust , ghar pe kiski koi darad ki medicine khata hoga unki darad khatam ho jaygi, (in my mind i knew such general statement apply to every one and this is a psychological trap ) despite thata I let my guard down I gave him rs.10 coin , he said some words , and he slipped a 10-rupee coin back into my bag , saying he has blessed it (returning me my coin was his trick to gain my trust for the next f\*\* up that is all my fault) . I was curios also because this was first time interaction with these baba's , So, now he gave my coin back , i insisted him to take it and go feed the children , but now he said itna sa thoda hoga give ek 100 rupee note . which he might have noticed when I opened my wallet and . I told him I didn’t need any more blessings, but his previous act of returning note had some psychological impact , I told him to leave, but he continued to talk about how he wouldn’t be taking my money, saying, “Ye paise ke kahakar hamare pete mein keede padenge.” So I ended up giving him the note anyway.

He did his thing and return the note ,My curisoty was high at this time probably the reason I didn't understand what was happening at the time, Now after returning ,He kept insisting on more money, I told him I don't have any more money , and have already given what I was happy with but , he start suggesting I go to the nearby ATM to withdraw 500 rupees.( Again he had a peek that I had atm in my wallet ) At that point, I realized something was off.But before I realize he He took the 100-rupee note from my hand and put it in his donation box, when I confronted why he snatched that he started walking and said " yeh toh ab baba ke langar main lag gaya h ".

Knowing the bus could arrive at any moment, I didn't had time to make a scene ,I was bit upset but still let him go, but then just 2 minute after that I saw him trying to scam another person waiting just 5 m away from me , I decided I wouldn’t let him get away easily. I approached him and took a photo,this part is terrifying he became aggressive and started pushing me ,Luckily, the busy bus stand had people around, and they quickly gathered when they saw what was happening. A local auto driver later told me this man’s tricks were common, and I should be more careful.

I was in a strange state surrounded by strangers ,he could have summoned his backup party ,things could have gone really bad, I won't recommend anyone to engage with these people especially in strange place,report authority if available nearby, which in my case was none there, don't I repeat,don't engage with these scammers unless . I can’t help but wonder what might have happened if it had been nighttime or if I’d been alone . My trust is shaken now, and I doubt I’ll engage with anyone asking for help again. I had a photo of him,I don't know what to do with that report online ? File a compliant ? I don't know but I still find myself reflecting on whether it was just the 100 rupees or the fact that my trust was broken. It’s a lot to process.