SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I'm really lost.
DATE: 2019-06-21
SCORE: 84
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/c35wxa/im_really_lost/

--- POST TEXT ---

I failed 10th back in 2011 and stopped studying for 3 years straight before realizing that 10th fail will not get me anywhere.

My father always asked me if I wanna live like this forever or will go out and find work and I always said "who'd hire a 10th failed?".

In 2013, however, I gave 10th exam again and this time I passed with 48% (it's nothing but it's still better than being 10th fail)

But by that time I had lost all interest toward studying any farther and stayed at home without working for a year untill 2015, when two friend of mine went to Kolkata to work for a call center where's only requirement is English (and I had it). so, upon their next visit home, I went with them to KOLKATA.

But there was something I didn't know neither my *own* friends cared to tell me about the job. It was a fucking scam company who phish on old British people. I got moral issue so couldn't work there for more than a month and came back home to eat off of my father again. This goes on for another two years until my father's sudden death in 2017. It shattered my family (My mother and Sister is my only family).

We don't have a house, we lived in a government quarter because my father was an agriculture employee but now we've been asked to live the quarter because my father doesn't work for them anymore.

I could get my father's job had the compassionate ground scheme weren't changed into compassionate family pension scheme on april 1st 2016.

we got nearly 18 something lakh rupees from agriculture but with it we have to build a house and my sister is unmarried so I cannot ask money to start something of my own, not because we have less money but because I don't have any fucking experience with anything, let alone starting a business.

Now I'm facing the real problem, I do not have any skills. any job requires skill.

I'm 23 years old with a 10th pass certificate and zero skill on my hands. I'm feeling so worthless because I don't know what I wan't to do; what are my interest, what kind of work I can do. I don't know anything.

I've been contemplating suicide lately but I don't wanna leave my mother and sister in this position.

so, I'm asking *you* this, how can I fix this miserable life?