% 01.03.2024

 C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 1. The appellant submitted Application No. 202011011938 dated
 19 March 2020 for grant of a patent in respect of an invention titled "a
 method and system for detecting road anomalies" (hereinafter "the
 subject patent"). The application stands rejected by the Controller of
 Patents and Designs ("the Controller") vide order dated 8 January
 2021 passed under Section 15 of the Patents Act, 1970. The appellant
 is in appeal against the said order. the claim in the application suffers from want of inventive step vis-a-
 vis prior art D-2. Though the First Examination Report (FER) dated
 15 June 2020 cites four prior art documents D-1 to D-4 as disclosing
 all the features of the claims in the subject patent, the notice of
 personal hearing, issued consequent to the reply filed by the appellant
 to the FER, restricted the allegation of lack of inventive step to
 comparison of the subject patent with the prior art D-1 to D-3 and the
 final impugned order holds the subject patent to be lacking an
 inventive step only vis-a-vis the prior art D-2. 3. I may note that this position was accepted by both sides and
 arguments were also advanced before me, on the aspect of
 obviousness and inventive subject in the subject patent vis-a-vis the
 prior art D-2. 4. The Court is only required, therefore, to examine whether the
 subject patent is lacking an inventive step vis-a-vis D-2; in other
 words, whether the distinguishing features of the subject patent would
 be obvious to a person skilled in the art from the disclosures contained
 in D-2 and, therefore, whether the impugned order is correct in
 rejecting the appellant's application on the ground of lack of inventive
 step. 5. For this, one has to appreciate the essential features of the suit
 patent, which are claimed, by the appellant, to be inventive. 6. The complete specifications of the suit patent read thus: b) Indian; c) SCO 315-316, First Floor, Himalaya Marg, Sector 35B,
 Chandigarh - 160036, India 3. PREAMBLE TO THE DESCRIPTION

 The following specification particularly describes the invention
 and the manner in which it is to be performed. FIELD OF THE INVENTION

 [001] The present invention relates to transportation
 management information system. More particularly, it relates to a
 system and method to maintain the heavily travelled roadways. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

 [002] In the recent years, with exponential increase in traffic on
 the roads, there is lot of pressure on continuous upkeep and
 maintenance of the road networks across the cities. Road
 authorities are losing the continuous battle for upkeep of the road
 because of frequent weather change, improper drainage, improper
 or inadequate repair work, improper design of the road, frequent
 cutting of the roads for laying cables and conduits, heavy traffic
 or heavy vehicles plying on the roads which are not designed to
 handle such loads. As a result, road imperfections develop
 continuously and need to be managed before they become Signature Not Verified dangerous. Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 3 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 [003] Road anomaly may be defined as misalignment in the road
 surface due to any cut or crack in the road due to cable laying or
 any pothole due to improper water drainage or some 20 bump or
 uneven level due to manhole cover which leads to sudden braking
 or turning of the vehicle as soon as driver tries to negotiate the
 anomaly or sometimes if the driver is not able to negotiate then it
 leads sudden jerk in the vehicle. [004] In both the above situations either vehicle damage could
 happen, or accident can occur due to sudden application of brakes
 or turning of the vehicle. In some cases, skidding of the vehicle
 because of sudden braking or turning over has led to fatalities.
 Hence, it becomes utmost important to continuously monitor the
 road surface condition for anomaly and make sure that the road
 condition should not become worse to cause accident or unfit for
 driving. Also, the roads can be maintained better if the anomalies
 are detected and fixed in the early stages due to less cost of
 preventive maintenance as compared to rehabilitation or
 upgrading or reconstruction of the roads. [005] Further, USA patent US9863928 B1 discloses a road
 condition detection system for identifying and monitoring road
 conditions, and for communicating information regarding road
 conditions to various users. The road condition detection system
 is provided for capturing data indicative of road conditions and
 analyzing the captured data to locate and identify various road
 conditions (e.g., road hazards, such as potholes, or weather
 conditions, such as ice). In various embodiments, the road
 condition detection system includes a road condition sensor array
 configured for being attached to a vehicle and for capturing road
 condition data. The captured data may be transmitted and assessed
 by a server configured for identifying potential road hazards or
 other road conditions based on the road condition data captured
 by the sensor array. The prior art discloses a system based on
 laser and vibration sensors. The system however, does not detect
 the severity of the road condition. [006] Another USA patent US20180068495A1 discloses a
 method of detecting and identifying road surface defects is
 provided. Motion and position information is received from a
 plurality of vehicles. A profile is retrieved for a particular vehicle
 from a database of vehicle profiles by using an identifier of the
 particular vehicle. One or more criteria are identified for detecting
 a particular type of road surface defect based on the retrieved
 profile of the particular vehicle. Upon determining that the
 received motion and position data satisfies the identified criteria, a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 4 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 detection of a road surface defect of the particular type and a
 location associated with the detected road surface defect based on
 the received position information is reported. The prior art
 discloses method of detecting the road conditions using motion
 sensors and accelerometer. The method disclosed in prior art is
 cost intensive as multiple vehicle types and their sensor data has
 to be correlated based on their weight, tyre size, dimensions etc.

 [007] Nowadays, various methods and systems are available
 based on the technologies related to sensors and laser. These
 methods and systems have limitations due to vibration-based
 sensors and high costing of laser scanning. Also, the laser sensor
 is not efficient in wet weather and narrow roads. Due to these
 limitations there is a need of cost effective method and system for
 detecting the road anomalies. OBJECTIVE OF THE INVENTION

 [008] The primary objective of the present invention is to
 provide a method and system to give prior warning to the
 subscribed driver or user for upcoming road issues. [009] Another objective of the present invention is to provide a
 cost-effective method and system for better surveillance of road
 condition. [0010] Yet another objective of the present invention is to
 automate the measurement of road condition. [0011] Yet another objective of present invention is to provide
 safe driving assistance to its subscribed users. [0012] Another objective of the present invention is to provide
 a proactive system and a method to report road anomalies
 regularly. [0013] Yet another objective of the present invention is to
 provide a method and for periodic tracking of the road conditions
 which may help in accessing the quality of re-carpeting or patch
 work done. SUMMARY OF INVENTION

 [0014] The present invention proposes a system for tracking the
 road anomalies through a dashcam mounted on plurality of
 vehicles. The method and system maps and identifies the road
 anomalies by analyzing the video of road conditions and classify Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 5 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 the road anomalies by earmarking the road anomalies into
 potholes, bumps, cracks, etc. and rating them into yellow, amber
 and red colors based on certain parameters like dimensions of
 anomalies, type of anomaly, type of road on which anomaly has
 happened(highway, main city road, colony road, service road,
 etc.), GPS co-ordinates, date time stamp when the anomaly has
 been reported, changes if any since first time the anomaly has
 been reported, area to which the location belongs (sector, area,
 wards, zones, sub-district, tehsil/taluka, etc.). BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

 [0015] A complete understanding of the present invention may
 be obtained by reference to the accompanying drawings, when
 taken in conjunction with the detailed description thereof and in
 which: degree view. The cameras provide a high definition
 view of the road surface and simultaneously the GPS
 data is recorded by the GPS data recording unit (200).
 Once the survey is done by the camera, the camera Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 7 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 footage and GPS log files (.GPX) are downloaded to a
 central computer to compute the same. - Data Processing Unit (300) may comprise of the
 central system to process the raw videos and identify
 and classify the road anomalies based on training
 dataset of the road anomalies. This process also helps in
 classifying the severity of the road anomaly data and
 notifying the road authorities and subscribed drivers in
 case of potential issues. This process also gets the input
 of the GPS data like the deceleration in speed at a
 particular spot or patch of the road. - Data Mapping and Publishing Unit (400 and 500)
 may comprise the geographical mapping of road
 anomalies, creation of anomalies database and its
 updation based on road survey conducted, plotting of
 the road anomalies on any available web mapping
 service based on the route selected by the drivers along
 with the name of the roads featuring distress spots and
 suggesting alternate route with their anomalies
 information. Further, the report generates a map
 plotting the exact spots of road distress with color
 coding based on severity of road anomalies on the web
 map and create a heat map to show the concentration of
 road anomalies in the area or zone. This helps both the
 road authorities to take necessary actions on preventive
 maintenance and the subscribed drivers take the
 conscious decision on choosing the appropriate route. [0027] Fig. 2(a) and 2(b) illustrate the functioning of data
 capturing unit (100) for detecting the road anomalies. The data
 capturing unit (100) comprises a dashboard camera (Dashcam), a
 Global Positioning System (GPS) and a storage device. The
 Dashcam is a video camera with high definition 1080p, 130
 degree viewing angle covering all lanes of the road, Wide
 Dynamic range (WDR) function which adjusts according to the
 ambient light, built in G-sensor for image stabilization in case of
 shock or jerk. The Dash cam may be but not limited to, Akaso
 dash cam C330. Dashcam records the videos of the roads to
 analyses the road anomalies. [0028] In an embodiment, the dashboard camera and GPS may
 be combined. [0029] Further, Dashboard camera may pair with a
 communication device through available network to transfer data Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 8 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 to the mobile application. Afterwards, the data from mobile
 application can be transferred to central server through any
 network. Alternatively, the data may be physically transferred to
 central server via storage device such as Secure Digital (SD) card. [0030] The GPS data recording unit (200) or a GPS logger is a
 device which is used to capture the GPS co-ordinates and create a
 stream of it so that once the whole route is recorded the data can
 be used to trace the vehicle's path on the map, the date time stamp
 and the speed at which the vehicle has traversed the route. The
 GPS logger may comprise of GPS receiver, a processing and
 storage unit. In an exemplary embodiment, U-blox7 GPS
 Receiver, a Raspberry PI model 4 B and 16 GB SD card for
 recording the stream of GPS co-ordinates are used. The data
 recorded from GPS logger is stored as .GPX file. With every
 track being recorded as a .GPX file it is easy to play it in GPX
 player software which plays the recorded location position along
 with date time stamp and the speed. The captured .GPX files can
 be uploaded from Raspberry PI to central server through SSH
 protocol in a secure manner for processing at the central server.
 The GPS logger will help create a trace of the route travelled by
 the vehicle used for road survey. The GPS co-ordinates of
 potholes and patches are identified and mapped to identify the
 accurate position of road issues. [0031] Further, the data capturing unit (100) installed on
 plurality of vehicles to capture the video and GPS data. Vehicles
 may be but not limited to, any utility vehicle deployed by
 municipal committees, personal cars, or commercial vehicles such
 as trucks, buses etc. but preferably plying during the less traffic
 time in the morning when shadows are less prevalent. [0032] Fig. 3(a), 3(b), 3(c) and 3(d) illustrate the process of
 classification of road anomalies and mapping of road anomalies
 on to a web mapping service application. [0033] As shown in Figure 3(a), the central server is a high end
 desktop machine which process the data captured by data
 capturing unit (100). In an exemplary embodiment, a desktop
 machine with Intel i7 processor, Nvidia GPU, atleast 16-32 GB
 RAM, 512 SSD is used. The central server runs an Artificial
 Intelligence based algorithm to identify the road anomaly based
 on the trained dataset of road anomalies. Training data set
 categorize anomalies in different categories such as potholes,
 cracks, scrapped road, bumps, misalignments of manhole covers
 and frames. Further, the server classify the quality of roads as fair,
 bad or worse and determine the right speed to cross over the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 9 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 anomalies based on recent driver experience. It also determines
 the alternate travel path for users to avoid travelling over a road
 having anomalies. [0034] Further, as shown in figure 3(b) and 3(c), the video is
 processed through the data processing unit (300) to detect the road
 anomalies. After processing the video, image frames are recorded
 having bounding box corresponding to the detected anomalies
 along with date and time stamp. A bounding box is an imaginary
 box to demarcate the objects from their surroundings. In digital
 image processing, the bounding box is merely the coordinates of
 the rectangular border that fully encloses a digital image when it
 is placed over a page, a canvas, a screen or other similar bi-
 dimensional background. Based on the dimensions of the
 anomalies and the data of deceleration on location of the road
 anomaly, the road anomaly is classified into fair (yellow), bad
 (amber) or worse (red). If there are multiple road anomalies in the
 particular stretch of the road the whole patch may be marked as
 bad or worse. [0035] The data mapping unit (400) classifies and labels the road
 condition by creating a map of road including road anomalies and
 provide the average deceleration in speed to negotiate the road
 anomaly. While the driver sees the different routes on the map for
 reaching the destination the driver may also choose to select the
 route which has less road anomalies. [0036] In accordance with the present invention the method for
 detecting road anomalies is discussed herein: -data mapping unit (400) to mark the location of detected
 anomalies on the web mapping service application; and -data publishing unit (500) to notify the information
 regarding suitable speed and severity of road anomaly to
 the user; 7) The system for detecting road anomalies as claimed in
 claim 6, wherein the data capturing unit (100) includes at least one
 dashboard camera, at least one GPS logger and at least one
 storage device. 8) The system for detecting road anomalies as claimed in
 claim 6, wherein the GPS logger includes a GPS receiver, a single
 board computer processing unit, and a power source. Dated this 19th day of March, 2020
 Sd./- RANA, Vikrant (PA-248)
 of S. S. Rana & Co. Attorney of the Applicant
 AUDERTEC SOLUTIONS LLP" The expression "road anomalies" is a compendious term
 covering any defect in road surface, owing to any cut and crack
 in the road, pothole, bump or uneven level, which would require Signature Not Verified a driver driving on the road, to suddenly brake or turn the Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 16 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 vehicle or if he does not do so, to a sudden jerk in the vehicle.
 As this can result in accident, mapping of road anomalies is
 necessary, both for notifying the concerned authorities, who can
 rectify the roads as well as to inform subscribed drivers of such
 anomalies, so that they can negotiate the vehicle appropriately
 or choose roads, which are more easily negotiable. 8. Five objectives of the claimed inventions are identified, viz. (a) Providing a method and system to give prior warning to a
 subscribed driver or user of upcoming road issues, (b) providing
 a cost effective method and system for better surveillance of
 road condition, (c) automating measurements of road condition, (d) providing safe driving assistance to subscribed users, (e)
 providing a proactive system and a method to report road
 anomalies regularly and (f) providing a method for periodic
 tracking of road conditions. 9. The method claimed in the subject patent, when adopted, fulfils
 two purposes. Firstly, it analyzes the video of the road so as to map
 the conditions of the road. Secondly, it classifies road anomalies by
 earmarking them on the basis of the type of anomaly and rating the
 anomaly as yellow, amber or red, based on pre-determined
 parameters. Thirdly, the complete specifications are accompanied by
 drawings, designated as figures 1, 2(a), 2(b), 3(a), 3(b), 3(c), 3(d), 4, 5
 and 6. These drawings, followed four steps: 10. The claimed invention is divided in complete specifications,
 into: 11. The Data Capturing and Data Recording Unit comprises the
 following features: 12. The vehicle is to be driven at a speed of 20 to 30 kilometre per
 hour at a pre-decided route set by the user. As the vehicle moves, the
 camera records a video of the entire road surface, including any
 anomaly in the road covering of 130 degree view. 13. The GPS data of the road is simultaneously recorded on the
 GPS recording unit. 14. The GPS Data Recording Unit - (hereinafter the GPS DRU) -
 alternatively called the GPS logger - consists of a GPS receiver and a
 processing/storing unit. 15. The GPS DRU captures the GPS coordinates of the road and
 creates a stream so that it is possible to trace the path of the vehicle,
 the date time stamp and the speed of the vehicle. 16. The data is stored as a .GPX file, which can easily be played
 using GPX player software which, when played, would identify the
 position of the vehicle, date and time stamp and the speed. 17. Thus, the GPS DRU identifies anomalies and maps them so that
 accurate locations are identified. 18. The camera footage and the GPS log files (in .GPX format) are
 downloaded to a central computer. 19. Alternatively, the camera may be paired with a mobile through
 a mobile application, and the mobile can send the data to the central
 server. Again, alternatively, the video recording recorded by the
 camera can be physically transferred to the central server through a
 Secure Digital (SD) Card. 20. The Data Process Unit consists of a central server, which is a
 desktop machine that processes the data captured by the camera and
 the GPS DRU and mapped by the GPS DRU. 21. The central server identifies road anomalies based on a dataset.
 The trained dataset classifies the anomalies into various categories
 such as potholes, cracks, scrapped road, bumps, misalignments of
 manhole covers, and the like. 22. The central server thereafter classifies the road, based on the
 nature of anomalies contained therein as fair (yellow), bad (amber) or
 worse (red) and, thereby, identifies the quality of road by colour
 coding. 23. Based on this data, the central server determines the speed at Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 20 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 which the anomaly is to be negotiated, based on recent driving
 experience and also suggests alternate travel path which could be
 adopted. 24. The data mapping and publishing unit does the following
 function: 25. As such, the data mapping and publishing unit creates a heat
 map which identifies concentration of road anomalies on various
 roads. This serves two functions. It helps authorities to repair the
 roads and correct the anomalies and also helps subscribed drivers to
 negotiate the anomalies and select alternate routes. 26. Thus, the entire method claimed in the subject patent involves (a) Classification of the road anomaly, by co-relating the
 video of the road labelled through the data mapping system, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 21 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 exact geo tagging of the anomaly and average deceleration of
 speed while negotiating the anomaly. (b) Tagging of the road anomalies in colour coded fashion so
 as to inform the authorities about the severities of the anomalies
 and enable them to prioritize and plan repair work. (c) Conducting historical analysis of the deceleration through
 the location where the anomaly is detected and (d) Informing subscribed users in advance of the existence
 and severity of road anomalies. 27. The specifications clarified that the aforesaid process is
 continuous and iterative so that that new spots are continuously geo-
 tagged, anomalies specific colours are changed from time to time
 and, if the road is re-surfaced or patch work is done, geo-tags are
 removed. 28. Thus, the process for visualization of road conditions based on
 specific area includes (a) collection and processing of road anomalies
 data for a particular area for a particular period of 10-15 days so that
 periodical variation in road anomalies can be noted and (b)
 geographical colour coding of the sub-areas within the area based on
 number and severity of anomalies. 29. Para 0040 of the complete specifications also refers to the
 process of communication of the road anomalies to the subscriber
 drivers/users. The user is required to switch on the web mapping
 service application, select the destination to which he intends to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 22 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 travel and press 'Start'. When he does so, the system identifies his
 existing location, destination location and selects the best route1. 30. From the database of road anomalies, the system downloads the
 road anomaly data for the road that the driver has selected and shows
 it to the driver on the web mapping service application. The driver is
 thus warned of the upcoming road anomaly based on severity and the
 speed of the driver. The driver is also provided suggestion of the
 average speed at which the anomaly should be negotiated. Prior Art D-2 31. The complete specifications of the prior art D-2, sans the
 drawings, may be reproduced thus: (57) ABSTRACT

 The present invention is directede to a road condition detection
 system for identifying and monitoring road conditions, and for
 communicating information regarding road conditions to various
 users. The road condition detection system is provided for
 capturing data indicative of road conditions and analyzing the
 captured data to locate and identify varius road conditions (e.g.,
 road hazards, such as potholes, or weather conditions, such as ice).
 In various embodiments, the road condition detection system
 includes a road condition sensor array configured for being
 attached to a vehicle and for capturing road condition data. The
 captured data may be transmitted and assessed by a server
 configured for identifying potential road hazards or other road
 conditions based on the road condition data captured by the sensor
 array. Road Condition Detection System

 FIG. 1 shows a road condition detection system 100, according to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 27 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 one embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment, the road condition
 detection system 100 generally comprises a road condition sensor
 array 120 mounted on a vehicle 110, an onboard computer 130,
 and a central data analysis server (herein "central server") 170. As
 discussed in greater detail below, the onboard computer 130 is
 configured to communicate with the road condition sensor array
 120 in order to control the capture and storage of road condition
 data. The onboard computer 130 is further configured to s
 communicate with the central server 170 via a communication
 network 150 in order to transmit road condition data to the server
 170 for analysis. Additionally, the central server 170 and onboard
 computer 130 may be configured to communicate with one or more
 user devices 180 (e.g., a mobile phone, tablet computer, digital
 information acquisition device, or the like) to provide updated road
 condition data to a user. The components of the illustrated
 embodiment are discussed in more detail below. Road Condition Sensor Array

 FIG. 2 shows a road condition sensor array 120 mounted on
 a vehicle 110 according to one embodiment. In the illustrated
 embodiment, the road condition sensor array 120 generally
 comprises a front sensing unit 121a housed within a detachable
 front mounting housing 122a, and a rear sensing unit 121b housed
 within a detachable rear mounting housing 122b. According to
 various embodiments, the front sensing unit 121a comprises
 various road image detection devices, including an optical camera,
 a vibration sensor, and a road surface scanner. As the vehicle 110
 drives along a road 5, the road condition sensor array's sensing unit
 121a captures road condition data relating to the conditions of the
 road 5. For example, the captured road condition data may include
 video data, surface profile data, illumination level data, vibration
 data, and other data generated by other devices in the sensing unit
 121a. As described in greater detail below, the sensing unit's
 devices are in communication with the vehicle's onboard computer
 130, which may be configured to control the operation of the
 sensing unit 121a and store captured road condition data. In various embodiments, the sensing unit 121a includes an
 optical camera configured to capture video and/or still images of
 the road surface and detect the illumination level of the road 5. For
 example, in one embodiment, the optical camera may be
 configured to capture video of the road surface continuously as the
 vehicle 110 travels. In such embodiments, the onboard computer
 130 may continuously store video data generated by the optical
 camera and may be configured to buffer and transmit data to a user
 device 180. According to various embodiments, the optical camera may
 also be configured to receive light from the road through an
 aperture in the camera housing, which may vary in size to control
 the amount of light reaching the optical sensor. The optical sensor
 is configured to detect the intensity of the light received through
 the aperture resulting in illumination level data corresponding to
 the illumination level of the road 5 at a given point. Accordingly, if
 the vehicle 110 is traveling at night along a lighted road and passes
 by an area where street lights are out, the illumination level data
 will indicate a reduction in luminous intensity. Similarly, the
 illumination level data may indicate poor illumination in tunnels,
 under bridges, or in covered areas (e.g., parking lots). In this way
 the optical camera is able to capture illumination level data
 indicative of a particular road's varying illumination levels along
 the distance traveled by the vehicle 110. In various embodiments, the optical camera may be further
 configured to detect the reflectivity of the surface of the road 5.
 This may be accomplished, for example, by the camera emitting
 light (e.g., via a flash bulb or LED bulb) and detecting the level of
 light reflected by the road surface. As such, the optical camera is
 able to capture reflectivity data indicative of the surface reflectivity
 of the road 5 at any given point. Accordingly, if a road surface is
 wet (e.g., due to rain or an oil leak) or coated with another
 hazardous substance, the reflectivity data will indicate a
 comparative increase in the reflectivity of the road surface.
 Likewise, where the road is dry, the reflectivity data will indicate a
 comparative decrease in the reflectivity of the road surface. In this
 way. the optical camera is also able to capture reflectivity data
 indicative of a particular road's varying reflectivity along the
 distance traveled by the vehicle 110. As will be appreciated from the description herein, the
 optical camera may be configured to capture video data,
 illumination level data, and reflectivity data, or two or more
 cameras may be provided, each being configured to capture
 illumination level data or reflectivity data. In addition, a lens may
 be disposed within the camera housing aperture and a shutter
 and/or lens cover may cover the lens when the camera is not
 actively recording illumination level data or reflectivity data. In
 this way, the shutter and/or lens cover may protect the lens from
 damage such as being scratched or cracked. In other embodiments,
 the illumination level data and reflectivity data may be captured via
 other suitable devices. such as laser sensors or the like. In addition to the optical camera, the sensing unit 121a may Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 29 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 include a road surface scanner may comprise a laser or
 electromagnetic sensor disposed within a scanner housing. As the
 vehicle travels along the road 5, the sensor is configured to scan
 the surface of the road 5 and capture surface profile data indicative
 of the road's surface profile. Accordingly, if the vehicle 110 travels
 over a pothole, the captured surface profile data will indicate a
 depression in the road surface. Likewise. if the vehicle 110 travels
 over piece of debris or other object on the surface of the road 5, the
 captured surface profile data will indicate a protrusion on the road
 surface. In this way. the road surface scanner is able to capture
 surface profile data indicative of a particular road's full surface
 profile along the distance traveled by the vehicle 110. As noted above, the sensing unit 121a also includes a
 vibration sensor configured to capture vibration data indicative of
 the magnitude and frequency of vibration of the vehicle 110 as it
 travels along the road. For example, in one embodiment, the
 vibration sensor is configured to detect vibrations in the vehicle's
 chassis (e.g., vibrations transmitted from the road surface through
 the wheels and suspension to the chassis). Accordingly, if the
 vehicle 110 travels over a pot hole, the vibration data captured by
 the vibration sensor will indicate a sharp change in vibration
 magnitude or frequency. Additionally, if the vehicle 110 is
 traveling a smooth road. the vibration data will indicate a low-
 magnitude, consistent vehicle vibration, while a rough road will
 result in inconsistent vibration data corresponding to various
 bumps and imperfections in the road surface. In this way, the
 vibration sensor is also able to capture vibration data indicative of
 the smoothness of a particular road along the distance traveled by
 the vehicle 110. According to various embodiments, the sensing unit 121a
 may further comprise an infrared camera, a noise detecting device,
 and/or other road condition detecting devices. For example, the
 infrared camera may be used for capturing infrared data indicative
 of hot spots on the road surface while the noise detecting device
 may be used for capturing noise data indicative of loud noises
 associated with a vehicle traveling over a pot hole or other debris.
 Indeed, as will be appreciated from the description herein, the
 sensing unit 121a may include any road condition detecting device
 capable of detecting useful data indicative of one or more road
 conditions. Additionally, in some embodiments, the various
 cameras and/or sensors of the road condition sensor array 120 may
 have zoom capabilities in order to capture road condition data with
 at varying degrees of granularity. As shown in FIG. 2, the various devices of the sensing unit Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 30 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 121¢ are secured within a mounting housing 122a. In the illustrated
 embodiment, the mounting housing 122a is mounted to the front
 bumper of vehicle 110 and faces the road surface directly in front
 of the vehicle 110 (e.g. as indicated by the dashed lines in FIG. 2).
 In certain embodiments, the mounting housing 122 includes a
 quick release mechanism configured to engage a mating member
 on the vehicle's front bumper. This allows the sensing unit 121a to
 be easily removed from vehicle 110 and easily mounted on another
 vehicle. Moreover, as will be appreciated from the description
 herein, the vehicle 110 may include a plurality of mating members
 positioned at various locations on the vehicle 110 (e.g., front
 bumper, rear bumper, centrally underneath vehicle, side of vehicle
 frame, etc.) such that the one or more road condition sensor arrays
 120 can be secured at various locations on the vehicle 110. In the illustrated embodiment, the road condition sensing
 array 120 also includes a rear sensing unit 121b secured within a
 rear mounting housing 122b. According to various embodiments,
 the rear sensing unit 121b may comprise the same, or one or more
 of, the various sensors and detection devices provided in the front
 sensing unit 121a. In addition, the rear mounting housing 122b
 may be substantially the same as, or similar to, the front mounting
 housing 122a. As will be appreciated from FIG. 2, the provision of
 both front and rear sensing units 121a, 122b enables the road
 condition sensing array 120 to capture additional road condition
 data to verify various road conditions. Indeed, in certain
 embodiments, the rear sensing unit 121b may be configured to
 capture road condition data to confirm road conditions indicated by
 the road condition data captured by the front sensing unit 121a. In various other embodiments, the sensing units 121a, 121b
 and mounting housings 122a, 122b may be provided at any suitable
 location on the vehicle 110 depending on its configuration and
 intended use. In addition, according to various embodiments, less
 or additional sensing units may be provided as needed. For
 example, in certain embodiments. only a single front or rear
 sensing unit may be provided. In other embodiments, additional
 sensing units may be placed on lateral sides of the vehicle. Onboard Computer & Communications Network

 According to various embodiments, the road condition
 sensor array's sensing units 121a, 121b may be controlled by the
 vehicle's onboard computer 130. In various embodiments, the
 onboard computer 130 comprises at least one processor, a location-
 determining device or sensor (e.g., a GPS sensor), a real-time
 clock, J-Bus protocol architecture, an electronic control module Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 31 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 (ECM), a port for receiving data from vehicle sensors located on
 the vehicle 110, a communication port for receiving instruction
 data, a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag, a power source, a
 data radio for communication with a WWAN, a WLAN and/or a
 WPAN, a programmable logic controller (PLC), and one or more
 memory storage devices. The memory storage devices may include
 volatile memory and/or non-volatile memory, which can be
 embedded and/or may be removable. For example, the non-volatile
 memory may be embedded or removable multimedia memory
 cards ("MMCs"), secure digital ("SD") memory cards. Memory
 Sticks, EEPROM, flash memory, hard disk, or the like. The
 memory storage device may also include DRAM and NVRAM
 memory modules. In other embodiments, various components of
 the onboard computer 130 (e.g., the RFID tag, the location sensor,
 and the PLC) may be located in the vehicle 110, external from the
 onboard computer 130. The onboard computer's location sensor may be, for
 example, a GPS-based sensor compatible with a low Earth orbit
 (LEO) satellite system, medium Earth orbit satellite system, or a
 Department of Defense (DOD) satellite system. Alternatively,
 triangulation may be used in connection with various cellular
 towers positioned at various locations throughout a geographic area
 in order to determine the location of the vehicle 110. The location
 sensor may be used to receive position, time, and speed data. In
 addition, the location sensor may be configured to detect when its
 vehicle 110 has entered or exited a GPS-defined geographic area
 (e.g., a geo-fenced area). As will be appreciated from the
 description herein, more than one location sensor may be utilized,
 and other similar techniques may likewise be used to collect geo-
 location information associated with the vehicle 110. In addition, various embodiments of the onboard computer 130
 may include multiple processors configured for carrying out the
 various processes described herein. As will be appreciated from the
 description herein, the onboard computer 130 may not include
 certain of the components described above, and may include any
 other suitable components in addition to, or in place of, those
 described above. As an example, the onboard computer 130 may
 include various types of communications components (e.g., to
 support new or improved communications techniques). In the illustrated embodiment, the onboard computer 130 is
 generally configured to communicate with the road condition
 sensor array's sensing units 121a, 121b in order to (i) control when
 the sensing units 121a, 122b capture road condition data, (ii) store
 the road condition data captured by the sensing units 121a, 122b, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 32 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 and (iii) transmit the stored road condition data to the central server
 170 and/or the user device 180. For example, in one embodiment,
 the onboard computer 130 causes the sensing units 121a, 122b to
 capture road condition data continuously as the vehicle 110 travels.
 In other embodiments, the onboard computer 130 causes the
 sensing units 121a, 122b to capture road condition data at given
 time intervals when the vehicle 110 is on (e.g., such that all of the
 sensing unit's sensors capture data every second, every 2 seconds,
 or every 5 seconds). In other embodiments, the onboard computer
 130 causes the sensing units 121a, 122b to capture road condition
 data at given distance intervals as the vehicle 110 travels down
 road 5 (e.g., such that all of the sensing unit's sensors capture data
 every 5 feet, every 10 feet, or every 50 feet traveled). In further embodiments, the onboard computer 130 causes
 the sensing units 121a, 122b to start or stop capturing road
 condition data when the vehicle 110 changes direction, goes over a
 bump, or accelerates. In addition, the onboard computer 130 may
 be configured to monitor signals received from the sensing units
 121a, 122b and capture data only when certain predefined
 parameters are met (e.g., illumination intensity below a predefined
 valued or a road surface profile deviating more than a certain
 amount from a predefined base profile). Moreover, the onboard
 computer 130 may be configured to trigger data capture by one or
 more specific devices in the sensing units 121a, 122b according to
 the criteria above. Indeed. as will be appreciated from the
 description herein, the onboard computer 130 may be programmed
 to trigger data capture by the sensing units 121a, 122b according to
 any desirable parameters. As noted above, the onboard computer 130 includes a
 location-determining device or sensor, such as a GPS sensor, and a
 real-time clock. Accordingly, in various embodiments, the onboard
 computer 130 may be configured to associate and store location
 and/or date and time information--e.g., as indicated by the location
 sensor and clock--with the road condition data collected by the
 road condition sensor array 120. By associating location and date
 and time information with the road condition data captured by the
 road condition sensor array 120, the physical and temporal location
 of a road hazard indicated by the road condition data may be
 determined (e.g., by the central server 170 as explained below). In various embodiments, the road condition data captured
 by the road condition sensor array 120 may be stored in the
 onboard computer 130 (e.g. in the computer's memory storage
 devices). For example, in certain embodiments, the onboard
 computer 130 is configured to store road condition data collected
 by the road condition sensor array 120 continuously as it is
 captured. In other embodiments, the onboard computer 130 is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 33 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 configured to store road condition data collected by the road
 condition sensor array 120 only if the onboard computer 130
 detects a deviation in the road condition data that may indicate the
 presence of a road hazard (e.g., a change in vibration frequency or
 road surface profile). In yet another embodiment, the onboard
 computer 130 is configured to store only road condition data
 captured within a particular geo-fenced area. As described in greater detail below, the road condition
 data captured by the road condition sensor array 120 and stored by
 the onboard computer 130 is transmitted to the central server 170
 via a communications network 150. According to various
 embodiments of the present invention, the communications
 network 150 may be capable of supporting communication in
 accordance with any one or more of a number of second-generation
 (2G), 2.5G and/or third-generation (3G) mobile communication
 protocols or the like. More particularly, the network 150 may be
 capable of supporting communication in accordance with 2G
 wireless communication protocols IS-136 (TDMA), GSM, and IS-
 95 (CDMA). Also, for example, the network 150 may be capable
 of supporting communication in accordance with 2.5G wireless
 communication protocols GPRS, Enhanced Data GSM
 Environment (EDGE), or the like. In addition, for example, the
 network 150 can be capable of supporting communication in
 accordance with 3G wireless communication protocols such as
 Universal Mobile Telephone System (UMTS) network employing
 Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA) radio access
 technology. Some narrow-band AMPS (NAMPS), as well as
 TACS, network(s) may also benefit from embodiments of the
 present invention, as should dual or higher mode mobile stations
 (e.g., digital/ analog or TDMA/CDMA/analog phones). As yet
 another example, the network 150 may support communication in
 accordance with techniques such as, for example, radio frequency
 (RF), Bluetooth™, infrared (IrDA), or any of a number of different
 wireless networking techniques, including Wireless LAN (WLAN)
 techniques. In certain embodiments, the onboard computer 130 may be
 configured to transmit stored road condition data whenever it is
 able to establish a successful connection with the central server 170
 via a WLAN component of the network 150 (e.g., when the vehicle
 110 returns to a hub broadcasting a wireless networking signal). In
 addition, the onboard computer 130 may be further configured to
 immediately transmit (e.g. via 3G cellular network) captured road
 condition data meeting predefined "alert" parameters (e.g., road
 condition data clearly indicating a road hazard, such as a pothole or
 debris). In such embodiments, the onboard computer 130 (and/or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 34 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 central server 170) may be further configured to transmit the alert-
 status road condition data to the Department of Transportation,
 local media outlets, or other online road condition services in order
 to provide real-time status updates for various roads. Central Server
 According to various embodiments, the road condition data
 captured by the road condition sensor array 120 and stored by the
 onboard computer 130 may be subsequently transmitted over the
 network 150 to the central server 170 for post processing. As will
 be appreciated from the description herein, the central server 170
 includes various devices for performing one or more functions in
 accordance with embodiments of the present invention, including
 those more particularly shown and described herein. However,
 various embodiments of the central server 170 may include
 alternative devices for performing one or more like functions
 without departing from the spirit and scope of the present
 invention. In various embodiments, the central server 170 includes a
 processor that communicates with other elements within the central
 server 170 via a system interface or bus. In some embodiments, the
 central server 170 includes a display device/input device for
 receiving and displaying data. This display device/input device
 may be, for example, a keyboard or pointing device that is used in
 combination with a monitor. In certain embodiments, the central
 server 170 may not include a display device/input device and may
 be alternatively accessed by a separate computing device (e.g., a
 networked workstation) having a display device and input device.
 The central server 170 further includes memory, which preferably
 includes both read only memory (ROM) and random access
 memory (RAM). The server's ROM is used to store a basic
 input/output system (BIOS), containing the basic routines that help
 to transfer information between elements within the central server 170. In addition, the central server 170 includes at least one
 storage device--such as a hard disk drive, a floppy disk drive, a
 CD Rom drive, or optical disk drive--for storing information on
 various computer-readable media, such as a hard disk, a removable
 magnetic disk, or a CD-ROM disk. As will be appreciated by one
 of ordinary skill in the art, each of these storage devices is
 connected to the system bus by an appropriate interface. The
 storage devices and their associated computer-readable media
 provide nonvolatile storage for a personal computer. It is important
 to note that the computer-readable media described above could be
 replaced by any other type of computer-readable media known in
 the art. A number of program modules may be stored by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 35 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 various storage devices and within RAM. Such program modules
 include an operating system and/or a plurality of program modules
 (e.g., one or more modules configured for analyzing road condition
 data). According to various embodiments, the modules control
 certain aspects of the operation of the central server 170 with the
 assistance of the processor and operating system. Also located within the central server 170 is a network
 interface for interfacing and communicating with other elements of
 a computer network. It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill
 in the art that one or more of the central server 170 components
 may be located geographically remotely from other central server
 170 components. Furthermore, one or more of the components may
 be combined, and additional components performing functions
 described herein may be included in the central server 170. While the foregoing describes a single processor, as one of
 ordinary skill in the art will recognize, the central server 170 may
 comprise multiple processors operating in conjunction with one
 another to perform the functionality described herein. In addition to
 the memory, the processor can also be connected to at least one
 interface or other means for displaying, transmitting and/or
 receiving data, content or the like. In this regard, the interface(s)
 can include at least one communication interface or other means
 for transmitting and/or receiving data, content or the like, as well
 as at least one user interface that can include a display and/or a
 user input interface. The user input interface, in turn, can comprise
 any of a number of devices allowing the entity to receive data from
 a user, such as a keypad, a touch display, a mouse, a joystick or
 other input device. While reference is made to a central "server" 170, as one
 of ordinary skill in the art will recognize, embodiments of the
 present invention are not limited to a client-server architecture. The
 system of embodiments of the present invention is further not
 limited to a single server, or similar network entity or mainframe
 computer system. Other similar architectures including one or
 more network entities operating in conjunction with one another to
 provide the functionality described herein may likewise be used
 without departing from the spirit and scope of embodiments of the
 present invention. For example, a mesh network of two or more
 personal computers (PCs), or similar electronic devices,
 collaborating with one another to provide the functionality
 described herein in association with the central server 170 may
 likewise be used without departing from the spirit and scope of
 embodiments of the present invention. In the illustrated embodiment, the central server 170 is
 configured to receive road condition data from the onboard
 computer 130 via network 150. For example, in certain s
 embodiments, the central server 170 may receive a substantially Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 36 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 real-time data feed via network 150. In other embodiments, the
 central server 170 may receive road condition data downloaded
 from the onboard computer 130 when the vehicle 110 is in range of
 a WLAN. Processing of Road Condition Data
 FIG. 3 illustrates steps executed by the road condition
 detection system 100 to analyze captured road condition data
 according to one embodiment. As shown in FIG. 3, the process
 begins at step 302 where road condition data captured by the road
 condition sensor array 120 is transmitted to the onboard computer
 130 via a road sensor input interface. Next, at step 204, the
 onboard computer 130 performs continuous storage and buffering
 of the road condition data received from the sensor array 120. Simultaneously, in step 306, the onboard computer 130
 analyzes the vibration data present in the road condition data. At
 step 308, the onboard computer determines whether a bump has
 been indicated by the vibration data. For example, where the
 vehicle travels over a pothole or piece of debris, the vibration data
 captured by the sensor array's vibration sensor (e.g., an
 accelerometer) will indicate a sharp change in vibration. If a bump
 is detected, the onboard computer moves to step 310 where it
 marks the road condition data corresponding to the detected bump
 and freezes the data buffer (e.g., saving and marking the previous
 one minute of data). Next, at step 312, the onboard computer 130 determines
 whether real time transmission of road condition information is
 enabled. If real time transmission is enabled, the onboard computer
 130 moves to step 314 where it immediately transmits road
 condition data captured around the impact of the detected bump.
 For example, in one embodiment, the onboard computer 130 may
 immediately transfer the relevant road condition data to the central
 server 170 for processing and transmission to various user devices 180. In other embodiments, the onboard computer 130 may be
 configured to be configured to immediately transmit the relevant
 road condition data directly to a user device 180. In yet another
 embodiment, the onboard computer 130 may be configured to
 immediately generate and transmit road condition information
 indicative of the detected bump and/or any related road conditions
 to the user device 180. In this way, hazardous conditions may be
 transmitted in real-time wirelessly to users for immediate updates
 regarding road conditions. Turning now to step 316, the onboard computer 130 is
 further configured to perform an end-of-day upload of all captured
 road condition data. For example, as noted above, in one
 embodiment the onboard computer 130 may be configured to
 transmit all captured road condition data to the central server 170 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 37 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 at the end of work day when a WLAN 2 connection can be
 established with the central server. Next, at step 318, post
 processing of the captured road condition data is performed by the
 central server 170. In certain embodiments, this may include
 reformatting the data and associating the captured road condition
 data with GPS coordinates and time stamp data to provide context
 to the captured road condition data. Next, at step 320, the central server next performs signature
 recognition analyses of the road condition data to determine further
 information regarding road conditions. These analyses are
 described in greater detail below in regard to the exemplary
 method shown in FIG. 4. Finally, at step 322, the central server 170
 generates finalized reports and contents for distribution to various
 user devices 180. The reports and content may include, but are not
 limited to, map data for display on existing digital maps indicating
 one or more road conditions (e.g., on Google Maps), reports on the
 conditions of roads in certain areas, text messages alerting users to
 various road hazards, and the like. In certain embodiments, a report
 may be generated where a user may use a viewer to fast forward
 through video data to locations where hazardous road conditions
 have been identified. Referring back to step 320 in greater detail, various
 embodiments of the central server 170 are generally configured for
 analyzing road condition data received from the onboard computer
 130 to identify hazardous road conditions indicated by signatures
 in the data. In various embodiments, the central server 170 includes
 a pattern recognition module for processing the road condition
 data. As described in greater detail below, the pattern recognition
 module is generally configured for sensing deviations in the road
 condition data which may indicate various specific road conditions
 or road hazards. FIG. 4 illustrates steps executed by the pattern recognition
 module according to one embodiment. Beginning at step 190, the
 pattern recognition module identifies and retrieves target road
 condition data. For example, in certain embodiments, a user may
 request that the central server 170 analyze data for a particular area
 (e.g.. a geo-fenced area such as a county, city, highway,
 neighborhood, or the like) received during a particular time period
 (e.g., within the past week). In this case, the pattern recognition
 module would review the road condition data it has received from
 the onboard computer 130 and identify road condition data
 captured at locations within the user-specified area during the user-
 specified time period. As will be appreciated from the description
 herein, the pattern recognition module may be configured to
 retrieve target data relating to any set of user parameters. Next, at step 200, the pattern recognition module analyzes.
 the video data (e.g., the video or image data captured by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 38 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 sensing unit's optical camera) present in the retrieved road
 condition data to identify potential road imperfections. For
 example, as the vehicle 110 travels along the road 5 in FIG. 2, the
 video data will show relatively consistent images of the road
 surface. However, where potholes, cracks, debris, or other
 imperfections are present, the pattern recognition module will
 identify these deviations in the image signature and associate them
 with road imperfections. If the pattern recognition module detect
 imperfections in the road's surface based on the video data, the
 module moves to step 201 where the associated data is stored (e.g.,
 in the server's memory storage areas). In addition, at step 201, the
 pattern recognition module will determine the location and time of
 the captured data associated with the road imperfection and
 associate this location/time data with the stored video data for use
 in generating images of road imperfections. Next, at step 202, the pattern recognition module analyzes
 the surface profile data (e.g., data captured by the sensing unit's
 road surface scanner) present in the retrieved target road condition
 data to identify potential road imperfections. For example, as the
 vehicle 110 travels along the road 5 in FIG. 2, the surface profile
 data will indicate a relatively consistent road profile (e.g., a
 consistent detected distance from the scanner to the road surface).
 However, where the vehicle 110 travels over a pothole or piece of
 debris in the road, the surface profile data will deviate significantly
 and indicate an abnormal surface profile. Accordingly, the pattern
 recognition module is configured to identify deviations or
 abnormalities in the surface profile data. In addition, the pattern
 recognition module may be configured to compare the surface
 profile data in the target data with historical surface profile data to
 identify changes in the road surface profile over a period of time
 (e.g., by comparing earlier surface profile measurements captured
 at a particular location with the most recent surface profile
 measurement for the particular location to identify surface profile
 deviations or abnormalities). As shown in FIG. 4, if the pattern recognition module does
 not detect imperfections in the road's surface profile based on the
 surface profile data, the module moves to step 204. However, if the
 pattern recognition module does detect imperfections in the road's
 surface profile, the module moves to step 203 where the associated
 data is stored (e.g., in the server's memory storage areas). In
 addition, at step 203, the pattern recognition module will determine
 the location and time of the captured data associated with the road
 imperfection and associate this location/time data with the stored
 surface profile data for use in generating graphical representations
 of road imperfections. Next, at step 204, the pattern recognition module analyzes
 the vibration data (e.g., data captured by the sensing unit's
 vibration sensor) present in the retrieved target road condition data
 to identify potential road imperfections. For example, as a vehicle
 110 travels along the road 5 in FIG. 2, the vibration data will
 indicate relatively consistent road profile (e.g., a consistent
 vibration frequency detected as the vehicle 110 moves). However.
 where the vehicle 110 travels over a pothole or piece of debris in
 the road, the vibration data will deviate significantly and indicate
 an abnormal surface profile (e.g., a sharp change in vibration
 frequency or magnitude). Accordingly, the pattern recognition
 module is configured to identify deviations or abnormalities in the
 vibration data. As shown in FIG. 4, if the pattern recognition module does
 not detect imperfections in the road's surface profile based on the
 vibration data, the module moves to step 206. However, if the
 pattern recognition module does detect imperfections in the road's
 surface profile, the module moves to step 205 where the associated
 data is stored (e.g., in the server's memory storage areas), In
 addition, at step 205, the pattern recognition module will again
 determine the location and time of the captured data associated
 with the road imperfection and associate this location/time data
 with the stored vibration data for use in generating graphical
 representations of road imperfections. Next, at step 206, the pattern recognition module analyzes
 the illumination level data (e.g., data captured by the sensing unit's
 optical camera) present in the retrieved target road condition data
 to identify potential low illumination sections of road. For
 example, as a vehicle 110 travels along the road 5 in FIG. 2, the
 illumination level data will indicate relatively consistent
 illumination (e.g., either a consistent day- light luminous intensity
 or, during the night, a consistent artificial light luminous intensity).
 However, where the vehicle 110 travels on a portion of road where
 a street light is out - or that is otherwise poorly lit - the illumination
 level data will deviate significantly and indicate an abnormal
 illumination level (e.g., a sharp change in illumination intensity).
 Accordingly, the pattern recognition module is configured to
 identify deviations or abnormalities in the illumination level data.
 In addition, the pattern recognition module may be configured to
 compare the illumination level data in the target data with
 historical illumination level data to identify changes in illumination
 levels over a period of time (e.g., by comparing earlier illumination
 level measurements captured at a particular location at a particular
 time of day with the most recent illumination level measurement
 for the particular location at the particular time of day to identify Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 40 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 illumination level deviations or abnormalities). As shown in FIG. 4, if the pattern recognition module does
 not detect low illumination levels based on the illumination level
 data, the module moves to step 208. However, if the pattern
 recognition module does detect low illumination levels, the module
 moves to step 207 where the associated data is stored (e.g., in the
 server's memory storage areas). In addition, at step 207, the pattern
 recognition module will again determine the location and time of
 the captured data associated with the low illumination levels an
 associate this location/time data with the stored illumination level
 data for use in generating graphical representations road
 imperfections. Next, at step 208, the pattern recognition module generates
 a graphical representation of various road condition indicated by
 the target road condition data. For example, in one embodiment,
 the graphical representation may comprise an interactive road map
 showing the location of potential road imperfections (e.g., potholes
 or debris) and low illumination areas (e.g., where a street or tunnel
 light is out). In this way, a user is able to view road conditions
 existing within the parameters set for the target data (e.g., hazards
 within a particular area and/or time period). In addition, the
 interactive road map may be configured to automatically match
 before and after images and/or data regarding particular condition
 so the user is provided with comparative information about the
 current and prior state of the condition. For example, in one
 embodiment, a user may select a particular road hazard on the map
 and the pattern recognition module will retrieve the most recent
 image of the hazard (e.g., an image of a pothole captured by the
 optical camera) and next most recent image of the hazard (e.g., an
 earlier image of the same location before pot hole was formed). As will be appreciated from the description herein, various
 embodiments of the pattern recognition module may be configured
 to analyze additional road condition data to identify other road
 conditions. For example, as noted above, the sensing unit 121 may
 be configured to capture reflectivity data indicative of the
 reflection coefficient of a road surface. As such, the pattern
 recognition module may be configured to analyze any captured
 reflectivity data and identify data indicating an abnormal
 reflectivity (e.g., where the road is wet or icy). Additionally, the
 pattern recognition module may be configured to similarly analyze
 infrared data (e.g. to identify iced roads) and noise data (e.g., to
 identify debris or road imperfections). Furthermore, the pattern
 recognition module may be configured to show conditions
 indicated by this additional data on any generated graphical Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 41 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 representations, such as the interactive map noted above. The
 pattern recognition system may also be configured to identify
 additional conditions indicated by the road condition data. For
 example, in certain embodiments, the illumination level data and
 reflectivity data may be used to indicate weather conditions in a
 particular area (e.g., sunny, cloudy, raining, etc.). In addition, the
 condition of painted lines on roads (e.g., lane markers) may be
 evaluated based on captured video data, reflectivity data, or the like
 (e.g., to determine whether painted lines are weathered and need to
 be repainted). In various embodiments, the pattern recognition module
 may also be configured to use the hazards or conditions to
 calculate a road condition index representing a relative hazard level
 for a particular road or area. For example, in certain embodiments,
 the road condition index may be calculated using a predetermined
 function of the number of identified hazards occurring over a given
 length of road and/or the illumination level over a given length of
 road. In further embodiments, the predetermined function for
 calculating the road condition index may take into account the
 severity of the identified hazards. For example, in various
 embodiments, a deep pot hole indicated by surface profile data
 may be weighted more heavily in the road condition index
 calculation than a light bump indicated by the vibration data. In
 certain embodiments, the sensor array may also be configured to
 direct certain optical cameras towards road signs or mile markers
 and captures images indicating where other associated road
 condition data is being captured. Use of Road Condition Sensor Arrays in Vehicle Fleet

 According to various embodiments, the road condition
 detection system 100 may be adapted for use with a fleet of
 vehicles in order to provide comprehensive road condition updates.
 The vehicle fleet may be, for example, that of a freight or mail
 carrier (e.g., the United States Postal Service or United Parcel
 Service, Inc.), a public transportation provider (e.g., city buses
 and/or taxis), or one or more rental car agencies. In such
 embodiments, road condition sensor arrays 120 are provided on
 numerous vehicles in the fleet and configured to transmit captured
 road condition data to the central server 170. In this way, road
 condition data indicative of all roads on which the equipped
 vehicles travel can be collected and analyzed by the central server
 170 (e.g., using the methods described above). By providing roads
 condition sensor arrays on one or more large vehicle fleets, road
 condition data may be captured and analyzed to indicate road
 conditions over a wide area. In embodiments where the central server 170 receives large
 amounts of road condition data from road condition sensor arrays
 120 in a vehicle fleet, the server's pattern recognition module may
 be configured to repeat steps 202-208 for all received road
 condition data in order to continuously identify potential road
 hazards. In various embodiments, information about identified road
 conditions may be communicated to the Department of
 Transportation, local media outlets, online road condition services,
 directly to user devices 180, and/or stored by server 170. In
 addition, the pattern recognition module may be further configured
 to continuously update the above-described interactive map (e.g.,
 by periodic updates in accordance with the transmission of road
 condition data from the onboard computers 130 to the server 170
 and by immediate "alert" updates in the scenarios noted above).
 This updated, global interactive road map may also include
 calculated road condition indexes. In various embodiments, the global interactive map may be
 made accessible via a website or other remote application such that
 it can be accessed via the network 150 and viewed one a remote
 personal computer, smart phone, or other device. In this way, the
 interactive map can be accessed and viewed by drivers,
 government agencies, and others interested in updates on the status
 of potential road hazards. In further embodiments, the central
 server 170 may be configured for indicating potential road hazards
 on other map-based systems, such as Google Maps, Bing Maps, or
 Apple Maps. As noted above, the road condition information
 provided in this way may be used to plan road repairs, salting,
 other road maintenance, as well as to provide status updates for
 commuters in order to avoid traffic and potential vehicle damage. CONCLUSION

 As will be appreciated from the description herein, the
 components and operation of the road condition detection system
 100 may be modified according to various embodiments. For
 example, various sensing devices may be employed in the road
 condition sensor array's sensing unit 121 to capture a variety of
 road condition data. In addition, the central server 170 may be
 configured accordingly to identify various hazards and other
 conditions based on the captured road condition data using various
 methods or algorithms. Moreover, according to various
 embodiments, the road condition data may be processed as
 described herein by the central server 170, the onboard computer
 130, any other suitable computing device, or some combination
 thereof. Indeed, many modifications and other embodiments of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 43 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the
 art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the
 teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the
 associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the
 inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments
 disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are
 intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.
 Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a
 generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of
 limitation. That which is claimed: Mr. Rana submits that, in assessing whether the later patent would be
 obvious or anticipated from the earlier patent, the Court is required, as
 per the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in F. Hoffmann
 La Roche Ltd v. Cipla Ltd2 , to (i) identify a person ordinarily skilled in the art, (ii) identify the inventive concept embodied in the patent, Signature Not Verified 2 2015 SCC OnLine Del 13619
Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 48 of 56 Signing
Date:13.03.2024 22:46 (iii) impute, to the normally skilled but unimaginative
 ordinary person skilled in the art what was common general
 knowledge in the art at the priority date, (iv) identify the differences between the matter cited and the
 alleged invention and ascertain whether the differences are
 merely workshop improvements or actually involve inventive
 steps, (v) determine whether the differences would be obvious to a
 person skilled in the art without having to adopt a hindsight
 approach. Viewed thus, Mr. Rana submits that it cannot be said that the subject
 patent has no inventive step vis-à-vis D-2. Analysis 34. When one reads the complete specifications in D-2 vis-à-vis the
 principal features of the subject patent which are claimed to be
 inventive, the conclusion is inevitable that all the said features are
 already expressly envisioned in the complete specifications in D-2.
 For ready reference, and at the cost of repetition, the following
 extracts from the complete specifications in D-2 may be noted: In other embodiments, the on-board computer is configured to
 store road condition data collected by the road condition sensor
 array only if the on-board computer detects a deviation in the
 road condition data that may indicate the presence of a road
 hazard..." 35. So comprehensive, indeed, are the complete specifications of
 the D-2 patent that reference to further extracts therefrom is hardly
 necessary. A reading of the complete specifications indicates that the
 D-2 patent has envisioned a system for detecting road anomalies
 which is largely similar to that envisioned by the subject patent. The
 principle of a camera capturing road anomalies, which may be an
 audio or video camera, and which may capture anomalies in the road
 as the vehicle travels; the principle of the system being mounted on Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 53 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 one vehicle, vis-à-vis a multitude of vehicles; the transmission of the
 data captured by the camera/sensor array to the on-board computer;
 the diverse possibilities of the data being stored on real-time basis, vis-
 à-vis the data being stored on a backup platform so as to have access
 to historical data regarding the road; geo-profiling of the road, road
 conditions, and the network of roads; transmission of the data to a
 central server which would, either on real-time basis or on the basis of
 historical data, chart the anomalies in various roads; and final
 transmission of the data to the users so as to provide information
 regarding road anomalies and take remedial steps where necessary, are
 all fully and completely contemplated, captured and visualised by the
 D-2 patent. The possibility of various embodiments, in which the
 specifics of the various features of the system for tracking road
 anomalies may vary, and the specific varied features are all envisaged
 by the D-2 patent. 36. The aspect of obviousness, vis-à-vis prior art, has, unlike the
 trade mark regime, to be assessed from the point of view of a person
 skilled in the art who is possessed of common general knowledge as it
 exists on the priority date of the prior art, but who is not expected to
 exercise any imaginative faculties. The authority, or the Court,
 assessing the aspect of validity of the later patent in view of the
 teachings contained in the earlier patent, has to reasonably assess
 whether a person skilled in the art would, or would not, be able to
 arrive at the later patent from the teachings in the complete
 specifications of the earlier patent. Absolute identity of the
 specifications in the two patents is not what is required. What is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 54 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46 needed is sufficiency of guidance or teaching in the specifications of
 the earlier patent which, when coupled with the object sought to be
 achieved by the later patent, would arm a person skilled in the art,
 possessed of ordinary general knowledge as it existed on the priority
 date of the earlier patent, to arrive at the later patent. While trademark
 infringement is examined from the point of view of a person of
 average intelligence and imperfect recollection, the person, from
 whose point of view the aspect of patent infringement is to be
 examined, or from whose point of view the aspect of obviousness of
 the later patent from the earlier patent is to be assessed, is a person
 who is neither of average intelligence nor suffers from any
 imperfection in recollection. He is a person who is skilled in the art
 and is, therefore, vis-à-vis the art concerned, possessed of the
 necessary intelligence and skill as is expected of a person dealing in
 such matters. 37. The impugned order of the Assistant Controller has extracted
 certain observations from Order 250/2012 dated 2 November 2012
 passed by the IPAB, which read: (The person) is not a person of exceptional skill and; knowledge...
 He must, however, be prepared to display a reasonable degree of
 skill and common knowledge of the art in making trials..." On the aspect of obviousness, the following observations of the IPAB
 had been relied upon by the Assistant Controller: To my mind, these observations correctly encapsulate the principle of
 obviousness, and the indicia of an inventive step, vis-à-vis prior art, as
 a requirement of a valid patent. 38. Given the weight and amplitude of the teachings in the
 complete specifications of the D-2 patent, I find no reason to differ
 with the decision of the Assistant Controller, insofar as it holds that
 the subject patent is invalid on the ground of obviousness and lack of
 inventive step, when compared with the prior art D-2. Conclusion 39. For all the aforesaid reasons, the appeal fails and is dismissed. C.HARI SHANKAR, J
 MARCH 1, 2024
 rb/dsn Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:AJIT KUMAR C.A.(COMM.IPD-PAT) 3/2021 Page 56 of 56 Signing Date:13.03.2024 22:46