SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: New Scam Alert
DATE: 2023-06-06
SCORE: 30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/14222mv/new_scam_alert/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday, I got a call from FedEx Courier which started as a automated Pre Recorded message that said My Order No.Xyz is being returned from Mumbai. Assuming it probably is some order of mine bought online I got worried. The message further asked me to Press 1 to talk to a Customer Care Executive so I did. It got me connected to a Customer Care Guy. 
He talked in the exact manner as a professional customer care executive would. 'Hi Welcome to FedEx How May I Assist You' I told him I have been told that some order of mine is being returned. So he asked me to hold to check, and then told me my mobile number and exact full name to verify, then told me that it's not a order that I was to recieve but it's a package that I was sending out. I got extremely confused as I haven't ever sent a courier yet and I denied what he said. It was a order that was going from Mumbai to Taiwan. I do belong to Mumbai. He told me incase if you haven't sent it, it still has been booked by someone who used my details and hence it's my responsibility and further told me that the Package Contained Illegal Contents and it's seized by Customs and he mentioned some Port Name. I was confused again but then he said my documents will be seized and detained by officials soon. This is the point where I realized I had read about a similar incident somewhere earlier where they will further ask to meet with a 'customs officer' or be ready to be arrested soon. And I am guessing that the 'officer' will trap and extort money. One thing that was very shady was that he was talking in a heavy south Indian accent which made it very difficult to understand a lot of things but as soon as I realized this is most definitely a scam, I told him do whatever you want I don't care and hung up and blocked.

But this could happen to anyone and it's extremely concerning if someone who's naive and unaware of this scam falls for this trap. Hence please pass this on to your family and friends. Be Safe.