SIDDHARTH MRIDUL, J 1. The present appeal under Section 21(4) of the National

 Investigating Agency Act, 2008 (hereinafter referred to as „the NIA

 Act ‟) read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973

 (hereinafter referred to as „the Cr.P.C .‟) assails the order dated

 07.01.2023 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge-03, Special Judge Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 1 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 (NIA), Patiala House Courts, New Delhi, in the case arising out of

 RC-29/2021/NIA/DLI, registered by the NIA under Sections 120B , 121A , 122 , 123 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to

 as „ IPC ‟) and under Sections 18 , 18A , 18B , 20 , 38 & 39 of the

 Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, (hereinafter referred to as

 „the UAPA Act ‟), whereby the bail application instituted on behalf of

 the appellant was dismissed. 2. Briefly, the facts as are necessary for the adjudication of the

 present appeal are encapsulated as under:- 2.2. It is furthermore alleged that, during the course of the

 investigation, it was unearthed that, the aforementioned

 terrorist groups, in collaboration with their facilitators and

 leaders based in Pakistan, along with their Over-Ground

 Workers within India, were involved in influencing and

 radicalizing susceptible local youth. It is also alleged that,

 the objective was to recruit and train these young

 individuals for participating in acts of terrorism, which

 included handling weapons, ammunition, and explosive

 materials. These actions were intended to execute acts of

 terrorism, involving attacks on civilians and security forces,

 with the intention of spreading fear within the Kashmir

 Valley and in various regions of India, subsequent to the

 revocation of Article 370 from the Constitution of India.

 2.3. It is further the case of the prosecution that, based on the

 abovementioned intelligence, the National Investigation

 Agency (NIA) lodged the present FIR No: RC- 29/2021INIA/DLI under Sections 120B, 121A, 122, 123 of Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 3 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 the IPC , and Sections 18 , 18A , 18B , 20 , 38 , 39 of the UAPA

 Act. It is alleged in the charge sheet that the investigation

 had revealed that the larger conspiracy was masterminded

 by high-ranking leaders of various terrorist organizations,

 including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen

 (HM), Al-Badr and other entities situated in Pakistan. It is

 further alleged that, the conspiracy was conceived

 subsequent to the revocation of Article 370 , with the

 objective of reigniting acts of terrorism in Jammu and

 Kashmir, as well as, in other regions of India and to

 accomplish this malevolent objective, a central organization

 known as the "United Jihad Council" (UJC) was established

 as part of a larger conspiracy, in collaboration with other

 proscribed terrorist groups. 2.4. It is further alleged that, the entire operation was

 orchestrated under the guidance and support of Pakistan‟s

 Intelligence Agency i.e. „Inter-Services Intelligence‟ (ISI).

 The investigation further unveiled the formation of

 "coordination groups" as an integral facet of the conspiracy, Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 4 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 responsible for strategizing terrorist operations in the

 Kashmir Valley. 2.5. It is furthermore alleged that, these groups included

 individuals, who were outwardly engaged in lawful pursuits;

 but functioned as Over-Ground Workers, executing small-

 scale violent terrorist acts, like targeting civilians and

 military personnel. 2.6. The case of the prosecution in the subject charge sheet is

 that, the appellant played an active role in providing refuge

 to members of the aforementioned terrorist organizations

 and their associates within his domicile, with the aid of his

 acquaintances. The appellant was consequently arrested on

 20.10.2021 and the chargesheet was filed against him and

 co-accused persons under Sections 120B , 121A , 122 , 123 IPC in conjunction with Sections 18 , 18A , 18B , 20 , 38 , and 39 of the UAPA Act. 2.7. The bail application instituted on behalf of the appellant was

 dismissed by the learned trial court vide order dated

 07.01.2023, impugned in the present appeal, observing

 therein that the prosecution has been able to show that there Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 5 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 is prima facie evidence to substantiate the case and the

 accusations levelled against the appellant. 3. Mr. Kartik Murukutla, learned counsel appearing on behalf of

 the appellant vehemently assails the impugned order whilst submitting

 that there exists a conspicuous absence of material evidence

 implicating the Appellant in any criminal conspiracy with the alleged

 terrorist organizations; and specifically that the record remains bereft

 of any indicia establishing a nexus between the Appellant and the co-

 accused persons indicted in the chargesheet. It is contended on behalf

 of the appellant that the evidence tendered by the prosecuting agency

 held minimal probative value and while considering the prima facie

 case against the appellant, the prima facie threshold could not have

 been met without a preliminary assessment of the evidentiary

 probative value. It is urged that, this evaluation becomes pivotal in

 considering the case against the appellant during the stage of grant of

 bail, as the substantive nature or weight of the probative value must

 align with the satisfaction of the Court. 4. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant further

 contended that there existed no substantive evidence on record to

 corroborate a nexus between the Appellant and the "larger Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 6 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 conspiracy", which is stated to be the genesis for registration of the

 present FIR. Furthermore, it was contended that there was an evident

 dearth of proof associating the appellant with any conspiracy related to

 the origination and implementation of "hybrid terrorism".

 Additionally, learned counsel representing the appellant has placed

 significant emphasis on the fact that the learned Trial Court, in its

 impugned judgment, relied heavily upon patently inadmissible

 evidence, specifically the disclosure statement of the appellant, and

 erroneously arrived at the conclusion that the said disclosure statement

 resulted in the "discovery of fact". 5. The learned counsel representing the appellant further

 contended that nothing incriminating was recovered from the

 possession of the appellant. It was urged that the document marked as

 D172 (Explanation Memorandum of Forensic Data extracted from the

 confiscated Digital Devices) did not encompass any content,

 establishing a link between the appellant and the larger conspiracy.

 The "Explanation" which has been ascribed to the appellant in the

 above mentioned document was inadmissible and appeared to be an

 endeavor to gloss over and overcome the conspicuous lack of

 evidence, demonstrating the involvement of the appellant in any Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 7 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 online group linked with the above mentioned terrorist organizations

 or dissemination of criminal content within those online groups. 6. Learned counsel representing the appellant further contended

 that the case of the prosecution rests upon the statement of two

 witnesses Uzair Ahmad Ganie (PW-271) and Fayaz Ahmad Ganie

 (PW-272), recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C., wherein they

 fail to implicate the appellant in the alleged conspiracy. It was further

 emphasized that the testimony of PW-271, merely offers ambiguous

 and general information that lacks any incriminating value since the

 above mentioned witness characterized the appellant merely as a

 "friend" of a "militant"; a fact that intrinsically holds no material

 significance in establishing the appellant‟s link with the present case.

 The statement of PW-272 only alludes to an incident wherein the

 appellant allegedly visited the residence of the said witness in the year

 2020, accompanied by two individuals, identified ipse dixit as

 "militants". Significantly, the said witness has conspicuously

 abstained from providing any specific detail regarding the manner in

 which he discerned that the accompanying persons were "militants". 7. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant further

 submitted that a mere connection or endorsement of a terrorist Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 8 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 organization does not meet the essential pre-requisites for invoking the

 charges delineated under Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA Act.

 Learned counsel also contends that in order to establish an offence

 under the above said sections, it is imperative that the affiliation or

 support in question is directed towards advancing the objectives of the

 said terrorist organization; which intent can only be inferred from the

 explicit action or demonstrable participation in the activities of the

 proscribed organization, as corroborated by the evidence tendered

 within the chargesheet. 8. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant further

 submitted that the jurisprudence concerning bail is well-established

 and consistently reaffirmed through a series of judgments pronounced

 by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India and various High Courts.

 These judicial pronouncements have emphasized the gravity of

 curtailing an individual‟s liberty thereby necessitating an array of

 inexhaustible safeguards, principles, and guidelines. The Apex Court

 and High Courts have consistently reiterated the principle that „bail is

 the rule, jail is the exception,‟ requiring harmonizing the mitigating

 circumstances in favor of the accused, thereby maintaining an

 equilibrium and facilitating bail under a lenient approach. Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 9 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 9. Lastly, it was urged by the learned counsel appearing on behalf

 of the appellant that the investigation against the Appellant has

 reached its culmination, and the chargesheet has been filed,

 designating the Appellant as accused no. 25 therein. The Appellant,

 presently in the capacity of an undertrial is languishing in judicial

 custody and given the protracted nature expected of the on-going trial;

 it is respectively submitted that the Appellant is ex debito justitiae

 entitled to be released on bail. 10. In order to buttress his exhaustive submissions Mr. Kartik

 Murukutla, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, has

 placed reliance on the following decisions:- x. John Pandian vs. State reported as (2010) 14 SCC 129; Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 10 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 xi. Asif Iqbal Tanha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) reported as
 2021 SCC Online Del 3253; 11. Per Contra, Mr. Gautam Narayan, learned Special Public

 Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the State, would categorically

 oppose the submissions made on behalf of the Appellant by

 vigorously urging that the learned Trial Court rightly rejected the

 Appellant‟s bail application through a judiciously reasoned order;

 meticulously addressing each and every speculative argument

 articulated by the appellant. Moreover, the said order does not exhibit

 any legal infirmity warranting any intervention by this Court. 12. Learned Special Public Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the

 State further submitted that, the appellant is attempting to divert the

 attention of this Court and seeking the conduct of a mini-trial

 requiring delving into statements of the of witnesses recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. as well as meticulous in depth scrutiny of the

 evidence; which indubitably is impermissible in law, at the stage of

 adjudicating a bail application. Mr. Narayan, learned SPP has further

 submitted that this Court is obligated only to consider the prima facie

 case against the appellant, as envisaged under Section 43 (D) (5) of

 the UAPA Act, and the limitations prescribed under Section 437 of the Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 11 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 Cr.P.C. 13. Learned Special Public Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the

 State, further argued that in order to adjudge a prima facie case against

 the appellant, it is of paramount importance to give due regard to the

 accusations put forth against the appellant in the chargesheet. The

 allegations portray the appellant as an integral member of a collective

 group of terrorists operating under the direction of terrorist

 organizations situate in Pakistan. The modus operandi involves

 disseminating and propagating the ideology of the said terrorist

 organizations within the Kashmir valley, with the intent of achieving

 radicalization and recruitment for their cause from amongst the

 general populace. Additionally, actively engaging in facilitating

 terrorist activities by coordinating and providing logistical support to

 militants situated in Kashmir valley. The prosecution relies heavily

 upon the evidentiary material annexed within the chargesheet, to

 demonstrate the active involvement of the appellant in sharing

 materials eulogizing and endorsing slain terrorists and proscribed

 terrorist groups. This sharing occurs across various online forums and

 social media platforms; thereby serving the dual purpose of

 radicalization as well as recruitment of local youth, for instigating fear Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 12 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 and terror in general public and promoting terrorist activities within

 the Kashmir Valley. Mr. Narayan, learned SPP further submitted that

 the prosecution is clearly able to establish that the appellant played an

 active role in arranging logistical support for militants in the Kashmir

 valley. The statement of PW-272, a pivotal witness in this narrative,

 leaves no room for doubt in indicating that the appellant took

 affirmative steps to secure shelter for two militants. Mr. Narayan

 further contends that the statements of both PW-271 and PW-272

 corroborate the fact that the Appellant was affiliated with the network

 of terrorism. Hence, is it urged that there exists ample evidence

 requisite for arriving at the conclusion that the allegations leveled

 against the Appellant are prima facie true, as sufficient to meet the

 requirements of Section 43D(5) of the UAPA. 14. Mr. Gautam Narayan, Learned Special Public Prosecutor further

 submitted that the Learned Trial Court has appositely relied on the

 principles laid down by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of National Investigation Agency vs. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali ,

 reported as (2019) 5 SCC 1, to support the assertion that, when

 considering a bail application under Section 43D(5) of the UAPA Act,

 the court should presume that the evidence presented by the Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 13 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 prosecution holds sway unless rebutted or contradicted. Subsequently,

 the court must only assess whether this evidentiary material is "good

 and sufficient on the face of it" to establish the foundational elements

 of the alleged offence. The Learned Trial Court, it is underlined, has

 also taken cognizance of the fact that as per the legal doctrine

 propounded in Watali (supra), the merits of the evidence against the

 accused cannot be analyzed at the stage of bail. 15. It was further submitted by Learned Special Public Prosecutor

 that in Watali (supra), the Hon‟ble Supreme Court has expounded

 upon the extent of inquiry permissible when considering a bail

 application under Section 43D(5) of the UAPA Act. The Apex Court

 clearly emphasized the importance of arriving at a conclusion based

 on broad probabilities regarding the involvement and participation of

 an accused in the commission of the offence, without delving into a

 detailed analysis of the merits and demerits of the evidence, at this

 stage. It was further argued by Mr. Gautam Narayan, learned SPP that the

 Apex Court in Watali (supra), explicitly criticized the approach taken

 by the High Court , in that case , where the admissibility of evidence

 against the accused was considered; whilst reiterated that the Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 14 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 principles laid down under Section 43D(5) of the UAPA Act, requires

 that the allegations against the accused, as presented in the FIR, along

 with the material cited in the chargesheet, should prevail unless

 disproved. Therefore, when evaluating a bail application, the question

 of the admissibility of evidence should not be entertained. Furthermore, the entirety of the allegations and material contained

 within the FIR, case diary and chargesheet must be considered to

 determine the prima facie veracity of the accusations against the

 accused. 16. It was further urged by Mr. Gautam Narayan, learned SPP that

 the Appellant has placed reliance upon the judgment of the Hon‟ble

 Supreme Court of India in the case of Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing

 Sharma vs. State of Maharashtra & Anr reported as (2005) 5 SCC

 294, to assert that bail should be granted if the material relied upon by

 the prosecution shall not ultimately lead to the conviction of the

 accused. In this behalf it was submitted by the Learned Special Public

 Prosecutor that, the case of the Appellant is that the document i.e.

 D172 is inadmissible in evidence and that the statements of PW-271

 and PW-272 are vague, leading to the conclusion that his conviction is

 highly improbable; which contention does not hold any water. Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 15 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 17. Mr. Gautam Narayan, learned SPP further submits that the

 reliance placed by the Appellant on Ranjitsing (supra) is totally

 misconceived and the arguments put forth by the appellant regarding

 the admissibility of material in the chargesheet are inappropriate at

 this stage, in view of the settled legal principles enunciated in Watali (supra). As elucidated in Watali (supra), the standard of satisfaction

 required for the Court to conclude that the allegations against the

 accused are prima facie true is less stringent than to opine an accused

 not guilty under Section 21(4)(b) of MCOCA, the provision under

 which bail was sought in Ranjitsing (supra). It was further submitted

 by Learned Special Public Prosecutor that the statements relied upon

 by the Prosecution are not vague and as observed in Watali (supra),

 the Court cannot delve into an examination of the admissibility of

 evidence at the stage of deciding a bail application. Therefore, the

 arguments advanced by the Appellant on the basis of Ranjitsing (supra) are specious. 18. Learned Special Public Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the

 State, further submitted that the Appellant has additionally sought to

 rely upon the judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India in the

 case of Vernon v State of Maharashtra & Anr. reported as 2023 SCC Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 16 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 OnLine 885, to assert that even at the stage of adjudicating a bail

 application under the UAPA Act , the Court must conduct, a surface-

 level analysis of the probative value of the material and the evidence

 produced by the prosecution, in order to arrive at a conclusion that the

 allegations against the accused are "prima facie true." In this behalf

 it is urged that it is noteworthy to observe that the case of Vernon (supra) can be distinguished from the circumstances of the present

 case inasmuch as the evidentiary materials in the relied upon case

 were predominantly „hearsay‟ in nature as the statements referred to

 therein did not attribute any overt or covert act of terrorism to the

 subject accused. 19. It was further argued by the Learned Special Public Prosecutor

 that the Appellant has placed reliance on the judgment of the Apex

 Court in the case of Thwaha Fasal v Union of India reported as 2021

 SCC OnLine 1000, in order to assert that mere affiliation or

 endorsement of a terrorist organization did not tantamount to the

 commission of an offence under the provisions of Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA Act. In order to establish an offence under the

 aforementioned sections, it was urged by the learned counsel

 appearing on behalf of the appellant that, the affiliation or Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 17 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 endorsement was with the avowed intention of advancing the pursuits

 of the specified terrorist organization. The requisite intention could

 solely be deduced from the explicit actions or instances of direct

 involvement in the operations of the said terrorist organization, as

 elucidated by the evidence produced in the chargesheet. Mr. Narayan,

 learned SPP would urge that in Thwaha Fasal (supra), the

 chargesheet filed relied upon the information disseminated by CPI

 (Maoist), as well as the vocalization of slogans endorsing CPI

 (Maoist) by the accused therein during his arrest. Considering the

 nature of the evidence produced against the said accused, the Hon‟ble

 Supreme Court of India , in that case determined that, the evidence

 provided was grossly inadequate to establish the commission of

 offences, stipulated under Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA Act. On

 the other hand, in the present case, it is evident from the material

 annexed with the chargesheet that, the Appellant endeavored to secure

 lodging for two members affiliated with Jaish-E-Mohammed (JeM)

 within the Kashmir valley. Therefore, the ratio in Thwaha Fasal (supra) is not attracted in the present case as the prosecution has

 adduced cogent material, showcasing the Appellant‟s direct

 involvement in aiding and providing shelter to the members of a Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 18 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 proscribed terrorist organization. 20. The Learned Special Public Prosecutor has submitted that, the

 Learned Trial Court had rightly rejected the appellant‟s bail

 application by a well-reasoned order dealing with each and every

 speculative argument canvassed by the latter. The learned SPP has

 further submitted that the impugned order does not suffer from any

 illegality, so as to warrant any interference by this Court. 21. Lastly, it was urged by the learned Special Public Prosecutor,

 that in the present case, the bar under Section 43D (5) of the UAPA

 Act, pertaining to the grant of bail stands resolute, in view of the fact

 that there exists significant evidence available on the record to

 substantiate the prima facie veracity of the accusations alleged against

 the appellant. 22. We have heard and carefully considered the submissions made

 on behalf of the learned counsel representing the parties and have

 perused the impugned judgment and the evidence adduced in the

 charge sheet. 23. The Hon‟ble Apex Court, in the case of Watali (supra), made

 an important observation regarding the consideration of evidence and

 material presented by the prosecution in relation to accusations made Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 19 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 in the First Information Report (FIR). The Court emphasized that, at

 the preliminary stage of bail, the material and evidence collected by

 the prosecution should be accorded weight and ought to prevail unless

 contradicted, overcome, or disproved by other evidence. Furthermore,

 the Court enunciated that at this preliminary stage, it was unnecessary

 for the court to conduct an exhaustive examination of the material in

 the charge sheet, with the primary focus being on the subject material

 and evidence provided in the FIR. Any subsequent evaluation ought to

 be conducted with due consideration of the initial evidence. This

 observation underscores the principle that during the early stages of

 the proceeding, the prosecution's evidence and material should be

 given significant weightage, and the court should eschew an elaborate

 examination on the merits of the case. The exposition of the law is

 extracted herein below:- "24. A priori, the exercise to be undertaken by the Court at
 this stage--of giving reasons for grant or non-grant of bail--
 is markedly different from discussing merits or demerits of
 the evidence. The elaborate examination or dissection of the Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 21 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 evidence is not required to be done at this stage. The Court is
 merely expected to record a finding on the basis of broad
 probabilities regarding the involvement of the accused in the
 commission of the stated offence or otherwise." 25. Further, following a meticulous evaluation of the evidence

 gathered by the investigating agency, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court of

 India, in Watali (supra), made the following observations:- 26. Be it noted that the special provision, Section 43-D of the
 1967 Act, applies right from the stage of registration of FIR for
 the offences under Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act until the
 conclusion of the trial thereof. To wit, soon after the arrest of Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 22 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 the accused on the basis of the FIR registered against him, but
 before filing of the charge-sheet by the investigating agency;
 after filing of the first charge-sheet and before the filing of
 the supplementary or final charge-sheet consequent to further
 investigation under Section 173(8) CrPC, until framing of the
 charges or after framing of the charges by the Court and
 recording of evidence of key witnesses, etc. However, once
 charges are framed, it would be safe to assume that a very strong
 suspicion was founded upon the materials before the Court,
 which prompted the Court to form a presumptive opinion as to
 the existence of the factual ingredients constituting the offence
 alleged against the accused, to justify the framing of charge. In
 that situation, the accused may have to undertake an arduous task
 to satisfy the Court that despite the framing of charge, the
 materials presented along with the charge-sheet (report under Section 173 CrPC), do not make out reasonable grounds for
 believing that the accusation against him is prima facie true.
 Similar opinion is required to be formed by the Court whilst
 considering the prayer for bail, made after filing of the first
 report made under Section 173 of the Code, as in the present
 case. 27. For that, the totality of the material gathered by the
 investigating agency and presented along with the report and
 including the case diary, is required to be reckoned and not
 by analysing individual pieces of evidence or circumstance.
 In any case, the question of discarding the document at this
 stage, on the ground of being inadmissible in evidence, is not
 permissible. For, the issue of admissibility of the
 document/evidence would be a matter for trial. The Court
 must look at the contents of the document and take such
 document into account as it is." 26. In its recent decision, in the case of Vernon v State of

 Maharashtra & Anr. reported as 2023 SCC OnLine 885, the Hon‟ble

 Supreme Court has observed as follows: 27. On a conspectus of the principles culled out from the judgments

 of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India extracted hereinabove and on a

 conjoint and harmonious interpretation of the provisions of the UAPA

 Act , we are axiomatically of the considered view that the relevant

 indicators relating to the extent of judicial examination required under Section 43-D(5) of the UAPA Act can be briefly encapsulated as

 follows:- 28. In addition to the legal tenets expressed in the case of Watali (supra) the supplemental surface analysis of the probative value of the

 evidence, has been clearly emphasized by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court

 in the case Vernon (supra). Consequeently, the pivotal query that now Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 25 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 confronts us pertains to whether there exist rational grounds for

 entertaining the prima facie veracity of the allegations levelled against

 the Appellant. This necessitates an evaluation of the corpus of the

 evidence adduced by the prosecution in the charge sheet. 29. The evidence collected by the prosecution against the appellant;

 in relation to the larger conspiracy; within the charge sheet dated

 08.04.2022, is extracted herein below for the sake of completeness:- 17.86 Investigation further revealed that A-25 was working as
 cadre for Rouf Dar resident of Hadigam, an active cadre of
 Hizb-ul Mujahideen and started arranging logistics for him
 and other cadres of the proscribed terror outfit.
 Investigation has clearly established that he was actively
 involved in harbouring the cadres of banned terrorist outfits
 in his house as well as with the help of his associates in the
 fields of his known persons. *** *** ***

 17.96. CDR Interconnectivity amongst accused persons A-1
 to A-27/ suspects established association based on the
 evidence emerged: Therefore, as per the averments made hereinabove/ in the
 pre-paragraphs, it is established that the accused Suhail
 Ahmed Thokar (A-25) criminally conspired with co-accused
 persons and others and in pursuance of the said conspiracy.
 Suhail Ahmed Thokar (A-25) indulged himself in the
 criminal conspiracy hatched by the terrorist organisations to
 create unrest and strike terror in the Kashmir valley and in
 others parts of the country. 32. Furthermore as per the material in the charge sheet as

 articulated during the course of the arguments, the attention of this

 Court is invited to several pieces of evidence procured during the

 course of investigation that suggest the appellant‟s significant

 involvement in the larger conspiracy and activities related to militancy

 and terrorism, which require to be carefully considered to determine

 whether there are reasonable grounds to substantiate a prima facie

 case against the appellant. The same are extracted herein below:- 33. During the course of arguments, learned counsel appearing on

 behalf of the Appellant has placed strong reliance on the judgment of

 the Hon‟ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Thwaha Fasal v

 Union of India reported as 2021 SCC OnLine 1000, to contend that

 mere association or support of a terrorist organization is not sufficient

 to attract the offence under Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA Act. It

 was further contended that in order to establish the offences under Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA Act, the association or support must

 be with the specific intent and this intent can only be inferred from the

 overt acts or active participation in the activities of the terrorist

 organization, as demonstrated from the materials presented in the

 charge sheet. In essence, the argument put forth by learned counsel

 appearing on behalf of the appellant suggests that a mere passive

 association or sympathetic support, without evidence of active

 involvement or intent to promote the organization‟s activities, may not

 be enough to establish guilt under Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA

 Act. This interpretation underscores the importance of establishing a

 direct link between an individual‟s actions and the promotion or

 furtherance of terrorist activities. 34. At this stage, it is crucial to reiterate that the UAPA Act Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 46 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 requires and warrants active measures against organizations that pose

 a threat to national security. The UAPA Act outlines specific

 procedures for imposing sanctions on such organizations and once an

 organization is designated as unlawful under the UAPA Act , any

 individual affiliated with it can be prosecuted for the offences

 specified within the Act, in addition to any other relevant penal

 statutes. The relevant sections of the UAPA Act , along with the list of

 banned terrorist organizations specified in the First Schedule thereof,

 are crucial for understanding the legal context in light of the factual

 matrix of the instant case. The relevant sections of the UAPA Act are

 extracted herein below for the sake of facility:- 35. Section 2(m) of the UAPA Act defines a "terrorist organization" 36. The First Schedule of the UAPA Act provides a comprehensive Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 48 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 list of terrorist organizations, as defined by the Act. These

 organizations are considered threats to national security and are

 subject to legal measures outlined in the UAPA Act . Here is the list of

 terrorist organizations included in the First Schedule: 37. The abovementioned organizations are considered to be

 involved in terrorism activities that threaten the sovereignty and

 integrity of India and these organizations and the individuals

 associated with them are liable to be prosecuted under the UAPA Act .

 As per the case of the prosecution, it has come on record in the

 chargesheet that the appellant attempted to arrange shelter for two

 militants associated with Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), a banned terrorist

 organization listed in the First Schedule of the UAPA Act . 38. At this juncture, it is also relevant to consider the recent

 decision of the Full Bench of the Hon‟ble Apex Court in the case of Arup Bhuyan versus State of Assam and Anr. reported as 2023 SCC

 OnLine SC 338 (decided on 24-03-2023); where it has upheld the

 Constitutional validity of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act and

 further opined that mere membership of a banned organization

 constitutes an offence under the UAPA Act . The relevant portion of

 the judgment is extracted herein below for the sake of facility : *** *** *** 18. Now so far as reading down Section 3(5) of Terrorist and
 Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987, which is pari
 materia to Section 10(a)(i) of UAPA Act, 1967 and reading
 down the said provision to the extent by observing that mere
 membership of a banned organization will not make a person
 guilty unless he resorts to violence or incites people to
 violence or creates public disorder by violence or incitement
 to violence and that mere membership of a banned
 organization will not incriminate a person is concerned, it is
 vehemently submitted by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor
 General that as such in absence of challenge to the relevant
 provisions, more particularly Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA,
 1967, such a reading down was not permissible. It is submitted Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 51 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 that as such in the case of Raneef (supra), which has been
 subsequently followed in the cases of Arup Bhuyan (supra)
 and Indra Das v. State of Assam , (2011) 3 SCC 380, this Court
 was considering the bail application and the constitutional
 validity of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act was not under
 challenge. *** *** *** 25. Making above submissions and relying upon the above
 decisions, Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General and
 Shri Vinay Navare, learned Senior Counsel appearing on
 behalf of the State of Assam have prayed to hold that the
 observations/decisions of this Court in the cases
 of Raneef (supra), Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Indra Das (supra)
 taking the view that mere membership of a banned
 organization will not incriminate a person unless he resorts
 to violence or incites people to violence or does an act
 intending to create disorder or disturbance of public peace
 by resort to violence is not a good law, in view of the specific
 provision under Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act, 1967, the
 constitutionality of which is not under challenge and even
 otherwise on merits also looking to the object and purpose of
 enacting the UAPA Act, 1967 . *** *** *** 52. Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision
 of Thawaha Fasal v. Union of India , 2021 SCC OnLine SC
 1000 by Shri Parikh, learned Senior Counsel, it is vehemently
 submitted by Shri Mehta, learned Solicitor General that the
 said decision shall not be applicable while considering the
 offence under Section 10(a)(i) of UAPA, 1967. It is submitted
 that in the said judgment this Court was dealing with the
 offence under Section 38 of UAPA, 1967 and was not dealing
 with the provisions concerning membership. Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA, 1967 are worded completely differently as
 compared to the provisions concerning criminalization of Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 52 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 membership of a banned organization. It is submitted that
 therefore any observations made while considering the
 different provision/offence may not be stricto
 sensu applicable while considering Section 10(a)(i) of the
 UAPA, 1967. *** *** *** 55. At the outset, it is required to be noted that pursuant to
 the order passed by this Court reported in the case of Arup
 Bhuyan v. State of Assam , (2015) 12 SCC 702, the present
 reference is before the larger Bench. The present reference to
 the larger Bench is made on the request made on behalf of
 the Union of India and the State of Assam doubting the
 correctness of the decisions of this Court in the case
 of Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan (supra) taking the view
 on reading down Section 10(a)(i) that mere membership of a
 banned organization will not make a person a criminal/guilty
 unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence or
 creates public disorder by violence or incitement to violence. *** *** *** 82. Now the next question which is posed for consideration
 before this Court is whether Section 10(a)(i) is required to be
 read down so as to save the said provision from being
 declared unconstitutional and is required to be read down as
 had been done in the case of Arup Bhuyan (supra)
 and Raneef (supra) that mere membership of a banned
 organization will not incriminate a person unless he resorts to
 violence or incites people to violence and does an act
 intended to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by
 resort to violence meaning thereby over and above the
 membership of a banned organization there must be a mens
 rea required to be established and proved and/or there must
 be a further overt act? While deciding this issue elaborate
 submissions have been made by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned
 Solicitor General, Shri Vinay Navare, learned Senior Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 53 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 Counsel appearing for the State of Assam and Shri Sanjay
 Parikh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the
 appellant/intervener. *** *** *** 87. The UAPA, 1967 has been enacted in exercise of powers
 conferred under Article 19(2) & (4) of the Constitution of India.
 At this stage, it is required to be noted that exceptions to the
 freedom to form associations under Article 19(1) was
 inserted in the form of sovereignty and integrity of India
 under Article 19(4) , after the National Integration Council
 (NIC) appointed a Committee on National Integration and
 Regionalisation. The said Committee was to look into the
 aspect of putting reasonable restrictions in the interests of
 the sovereignty and integrity of India. Pursuant to the
 acceptance of the recommendations of the said Committee,
 the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 came to
 be enacted to impose by law, reasonable restrictions in the
 interests of sovereignty and integrity of India. In order to
 implement the provisions of 1963 Act, the Unlawful Activities
 (Prevention) Bill was introduced in the Parliament. The main
 objective of the UAPA is to make powers available for
 dealing with activities directed against the integrity and
 sovereignty of India. It is also required to be noted that
 pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee on
 National Integration and Regionalisation appointed by the
 National Integration Council Act on whose recommendation
 the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 was
 enacted, UAPA has been enacted. It appears that National
 Integration Council appointed a Committee on National
 Integration and Regionalisation to look into, inter alia, the
 aspect of putting reasonable restrictions in the interests of
 sovereignty and integrity of India and thereafter the UAPA
 has been enacted. Therefore, the UAPA has been enacted to
 make powers available for dealing with the activities directed
 against integrity and sovereignty of India. 88. Now let us consider the Preamble of the UAPA, 1967. As per
 Preamble, UAPA has been enacted to provide for the more Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 54 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 effective prevention of certain unlawful activities of individuals
 and associations and dealing with terrorist activities and for
 matters connected therewith. Therefore the aim and object of
 enactment of UAPA is also to provide for more effective
 prevention of certain unlawful activities. That is why and to
 achieve the said object and purpose of effective prevention of
 certain unlawful activities the Parliament in its wisdom has
 provided that where an association is declared unlawful by a
 notification issued under Section 3 , a person, who is and
 continues to be a member of such association shall be punishable
 with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2 years, and
 shall also be liable to fine. Therefore, the Parliament in its
 wisdom had thought it fit that once an association is declared
 unlawful after following due procedure as required under Section
 3 and subject to the approval by the Tribunal still a person
 continues to be a member of such association is liable to be
 punished/penalized. *** *** *** 98. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above we
 hold that the view taken by this Court in the cases of State of
 Kerala v. Raneef , (2011) 1 SCC 784; Arup Bhuyan v. Union of
 India , (2011) 3 SCC 377 and Sri Indra Das v. State of
 Assam, (2011) 3 SCC 380 taking the view that under Section
 3(5) of Terrorists and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act,
 1987 and Section 10(a)(i) of the Unlawful Activities
 (Prevention) Act, 1967 mere membership of a banned
 organization will not incriminate a person unless he resorts
 to violence or incites people to violence and does an act
 intended to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by
 resort to violence and reading down the said provisions to
 mean that over and above the membership of a banned
 organization there must be an overt act and/or further
 criminal activities and adding the element of mens rea are
 held to be not a good law. It is observed and held that when an
 association is declared unlawful by notification issued under Section 3 which has become effective of sub- section 3 of that
 Section, a person who is and continues to be a member of such Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 55 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 association is liable to be punished with imprisonment for a
 term which may extend to two years, and shall also be liable
 to fine under Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967. 99. Any other decisions of the High Court taking a contrary view
 are held to be not a good law and are specifically overruled by
 this Judgment. 100. Reference is answered accordingly. Consequently, the
 Review applications filed by the Union of India and the State of
 Assam are hereby allowed. 101. Now the main appeals/SLPs be placed before the concerned
 Bench for taking of such matters after obtaining the appropriate
 order from Hon'ble the Chief Justice." (Emphasis Supplied) 39. Furthermore, it will also be beneficial at this stage to

 recapitulate the principles that the Court must bear in mind while

 deciding an application for grant of bail. The Hon‟ble Apex Court has,

 in a catena of judgments, outlined the considerations on the basis of

 which discretion under Section 439 Cr.P.C. has to be exercised while

 granting bail. The Hon‟ble Apex Court in the case of Prasanta Kumar

 Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee & Anr. reported as (2010) 14 SCC 496,

 after taking into account several precedents, elucidated the following: 40. These principles underscore that courts must strike a balance

 while dealing with the bail applications. The decision rendered by the

 Hon‟ble Apex Court in Prasanta Kumar Sarkar (Supra) provides a

 pivotal reference point in the jurisprudence of bail, ensuring that the

 principles of natural justice and liberty of an individual is protected

 while safeguarding the interests of society. 41. Resultantly, after due consideration of the provisions of the UAPA Act , along with an assessment of the material appended in the

 subject charge-sheet; the collective evidence; as well as surface

 analysis of its probative value, in our considered view prima facie

 there exist reasonable grounds to believe that the accusations against

 the appellant are true. Consequently, the conditions in Section 43 Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 57 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20 D(5) of the UAPA Act stand satisfied. 42. The present appeal is accordingly dismissed. 43. Before we part with the judgment, it is incumbent upon us to

 point out that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the

 present case. 44. A copy of this judgment be provided to the learned counsel

 appearing on behalf of the parties electronically and be also uploaded

 on the website of this Court forthwith. SIDDHARTH MRIDUL
 (JUDGE)

 ANISH DAYAL
 (JUDGE)
 SEPTEMBER 22, 2023
 dn/DA* Signature Not Verified CRL.A. 286/2023 Page 58 of 58 Digitally Signed By:DURGESH NANDAN Signing Date:22.09.2023 15:29:20