01.11.2021
Order No. 16. 1. The four Petitioners claiming to be the residents of village
 Darlipali under Police Station Bhasma in the District Sundargarh
 filed the present petition on 13th May, 2014 claiming that they have
 not been paid compensation for the acquisition of land of Ac.32.36
 decimal in Lephripara Tahasil in the District Sundargarh. Pursuant
 to the Land Acquisition Notification dated 29th April, 2013 under Section 4(1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, Petitioner No.1
 claimed to have lost land admeasuring Ac.1.74 decimal, Petitioner
 No.2 Ac.2.20 decimal, Petitioner No.3 Ac.1.60 decimal and
 Petitioner No.4 Ac.0.94 decimal. It was stated that despite a notice
 being issued to the authorities on 26th April 2014, no amount had
 been paid. It was claimed that all the Petitioners belong to the
 Scheduled Tribe (ST). 2. When the petition was listed on 25th June, 2014, notice was
 directed to be issued to Opposite Parties. Pursuant thereto, a counter Page 1 of 9 affidavit was filed by the Land Acquisition Officer, Sundargarh on
behalf of Opposite Parties 2 and 3 on 29th October, 2014. Inter alia
it was stated in paras 7 and 8 as under: 3. It was further contended in Paras 10 and 11 as under: 4. A separate counter affidavit was filed by Opposite Party No.1
viz., the Collector, Sundergarh where again it was mentioned that a Page 3 of 9 field enquiry conducted by the Revenue Inspector, Darlipali
revealed that the suit land claimed by the Petitioners was in fact a
Government land, which has been acquired for DSTPP by the
NTPS Ltd. It was specifically stated that the averments of the
Petitioners were false, fabricated and motivated with the intention to
grab the Government money. It was pointed out that the RORs
enclosed with the petition were forged documents. It was further
averred in Paras 8 and 11 of this affidavit as under: No.1 to 4 have fraudulently manufactured/prepared some
 fake case nos. to grab the Government money as land
 acquisition compensation. No such records relating to their
 claim are available in the Tahasil office which would
 establish their claims. Hence, Collector, Sundergarh ordered
 for seizure of the amount and stop the payment of
 compensation against those khatas vide his letter No.508
 dated 20.5.2014. xxx xxx xxx 11. That in reply to the averments made in paragraph 6 of the
 writ petition it is humbly submitted that while the fraud so Page 4 of 9 created was detected after complaint and the matter came to
 the light, the Land Acquisition Officer, Sundergarh was
 directed by the District Administration to stop the payment of
 the present petitioners. It is humbly submitted that the above
 petitioners have made a conspiracy to grab the Government
 money by preparing some forged RORs with false lease case
 number but on scrutiny no such case records are found in the
 Tahasil office which proved that the intention of the above
 petitioners was ill motivated." 5. A rejoinder affidavit was filed by Petitioner No.4, Sachidananda
Naik, trying to put the blame for manipulation of the records on the
Opposite Parties. It was admitted that an F.I.R. had been lodged
against the Petitioners, the then Tahasildar and record keepers. It
was maintained that the RORs issued to the Petitioners were
genuine and the allegation that they were trying to grab government
money was denied. 6. An additional counter affidavit was filed by the Collector,
Sundergarh in which inter alia it was averred as under: 7. A separate counter affidavit to the rejoinder was filed by the
Land Acquisition Officer on 16th July, 2016. pointing out that
settlement of land in favour of Petitioner No.4 was done showing
the year 2005-06 "by fraudulent means." It has been specifically
stated that the Petitioner No.4 is not a landless person and he was a
resident of village Jhargaon, where he had his ancestral property. It
is claimed that the said Petitioner acted "through his master mind
who was the then A.S.O.-cum-Addl. Tehsildar, the king pin of this
scam (who) with the help of other fellow workers of the Tehsil
office had managed such manipulation." It was then stated in the
said affidavit as under: 8. It was stated that an FIR has been lodged against the present
Petitioners and 70 other fake ROR holders. 9. Meanwhile, this Court by an order dated 20th July, 2016 directed
the Special Director General of Police, CID (CB), Cuttack to depute
an Officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police to
investigate into the matter and furnish a report in a sealed cover.
Pursuant to this Court's order dated 20th August, 2015 an affidavit
has also been filed by the OIC, Lephripada Police Station on 16th
November, 2015 setting out the details of the FIR that has been
registered against the Petitioners and others for manipulation of the
record. 10. The net result is that the present petition which started as a
claim for land acquisition compensation, has ended with unraveling
a huge scam, in which several persons including the authorities
have indulged in falsification of records in order to fraudulently
claim land acquisition compensation. 11. The Court considers it appropriate, instead of continuing to
monitoring investigation of the criminal case, to direct that it be
taken to its logical end. The question of granting any of the reliefs Page 8 of 9 as prayed by the Petitioners does not arise in the above background.
 The writ petition is accordingly dismissed. (Dr. S. Muralidhar)
 Chief Justice

 ( B.P. Routray)
 Judge

M. Panda Page 9 of 9