I am writing to register a complaint against Mr. Kamalapuram Srinivas Kalyan, the CEO of Geeklurn, and Neev Credit Pvt Ltd, the NBFC (Non-Banking Financial Company) acting as the finance partner, regarding fraudulent practices, breach of contract, and negligence. I urgently request your intervention and prompt action against both parties. In Feb 2022, I enrolled in Geeklurn's data science course, enticed by their "pay after placement" business model. They presented themselves as a scholarship platform, offering to take an education loan on my behalf from their finance partner, Neev Credit Pvt Ltd. They assured that the loan EMIs would be due on the 5th of each month, and scholarships would be disbursed by the 4th of every month. I have attached the brochure, which clearly outlines their scheme, for your reference. To my dismay, my experience with Geeklurn has been filled with mismanagement and deception. The loan for the course was processed within a two minutes by Neev Credit Pvt Ltd, without conducting proper due diligence on Geeklurn. This negligence on the part of Neev Credit Pvt Ltd, is a serious misconduct and has resulted in severe consequences for me. According to the brochure, there is nothing about EMI but for scholarship they have mentioned. However, in recent messages and calls, both Geeklurn and Neev Credit Pvt Ltd have asked me to pay the due amount, citing that the CEO of Geeklurn is on the run, and they cannot recover the funds from him. This contradictory behavior and attempt to shift the liability onto me is completely unjust and unacceptable. Neev Credit Pvt Ltd, as the finance partner, failed to fulfill their responsibility of verifying the credibility and operations of Geeklurn. They provided the education loan at an exorbitant interest rate of 18%, which further demonstrates their lack of due diligence. It is evident that both Geeklurn and Neev Credit Pvt Ltd are complicit in perpetuating this fraudulent scheme. For the past 1 months, I have been diligently following up with Neev Credit Pvt Ltd to address the loan cancellation and foreclosure. However, they are not ready to foreclose the loan. Their lack of cooperation exacerbates the distressing situation I find myself in. Furthermore, I have recently discovered that Mr. Kamalapuram Srinivas Kalyan, the CEO of Geeklurn, is currently on the run. It has come to my attention that their office was registered under the MSME (Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises) category, and they failed to inform the government authorities before abruptly closing their operations. This act is a clear violation of the law and adds to the severity of the situation. In light of these developments, I urge you to take strict action against Mr. Kamalapuram Srinivas Kalyan, Neev Credit Pvt Ltd, and initiate a thorough investigation into the affairs of Geeklurn. It is essential to ensure that justice is served, and those responsible for this fraudulent scheme are held accountable for their actions. Additionally, I seek your assistance in facilitating the loan cancellation and foreclosure process with Neev Credit Pvt Ltd, as they bear a significant responsibility in this matter. Enclosed with this letter are copies of relevant documents, including the course brochure, and any communication I have had with both Geeklurn and Neev Credit Pvt Ltd . These documents serve as evidence supporting my complaint. Should you require any further information or assistance, please do not hesitate to reach out to me. Even the Geeklurn Team inform us to share the details looping Finance Partner so they will pay EMI amount directly to finance partner on behalf of students which I already mail to finance partner and Geeklurn both and mail also attached for the proof and group screenshot where they ask for the details **I am writing this as a voice for over 600 Students. The proofs can be provided when and wherever required. Sample has been attached below. Link for some more proofs:- 1) https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:[protected]/ 2) https://www.facebook.com/groups/[protected]/permalink/[protected]/