1. On 10.07.2023, after hearing the learned counsel for the applicant and the learned A.G.A. this Court had passed the following interim order - 18. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi ): (2018) 7 SCC 731, the Constitution Bench reaffirmed that when considering applications for anticipatory bail, courts should consider factors such as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the specific facts of the case. 19. The relief of Anticipatory Bail is aimed at safeguarding individual rights. While it serves as a crucial tool to prevent the misuse of the power of arrest and protects innocent individuals from harassment, it also presents challenges in maintaining a delicate balance between individual rights and the interests of justice. The tight rope we must walk lies in striking a balance between safeguarding individual rights and protecting public interest. While the right to liberty and presumption 3 (2018) 7 SCC 731. 25. Land scams in India have been a persistent issue, involving fraudulent practices and illegal activities related to land acquisition, ownership, and transactions. Scammers often create fake land titles, forge sale deeds, or manipulate land records to show false ownership or an encumbrance free status. Organized criminal networks often plan and execute these intricate scams, exploiting vulnerable individuals and communities, and resorting to intimidation or threats to force them to vacate their properties. These land scams not only result in financial losses for individuals and investors but also disrupt development projects, erode public trust, and hinder socio economic progress. 27. It is inarguable that the cancellation of bail should be done only for substantial and compelling reasons, however, setting aside an erroneous bail order is altogether different from cancelling bail. This Court does not intend to interfere with the judicial discretion exercised by the High Court in granting bail to an accused as a standard practice. However, it is essential to ensure that all the material facts are brought on record and thereafter only the discretionary jurisdiction is exercised in accordance with the fundamental principles of anticipatory bail laid down in various decisions over time by this Court." 6. The aforesaid observations were made in the light of the peculiar facts of the case where allegations involved forged documents for transferring the ownership of the land worth crores of rupees. The Court has noted that in 1996 the subject land was sold through 'GPA (general power of attorney)' without execution of any sale deed. Hon'ble Supreme Court has also noted that Subject Land is a prime property situated in the National Capital Region. Even in the year 1996, it?s value must have been quite significant. There was no proof of payment of any consideration. The land had been sold on the strength of general power of attorney and the registering authority did not make any endeavour to verify ownership rights before the registration of the sale deed. While deciding the case involving the aforesaid facts, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed that the relief of Anticipatory Bail is aimed at safeguarding individual rights. 7. What appears from the allegations levelled in the present case is that the sale deed in question was executed way back on 28.08.2018 and 04.09.2018. The copies of the sale deeds have been annexed with the affidavit filed in support of bail application, which shows that both the sale deeds have been written in hindi language in devnagri transcript. The sale deed states that the seller has received the entire sale consideration and has handed over possession of the land to the purchaser. The sale deeds were duly registered by the Sub Registrar, who endorsed that the seller appeared before him and accepted execution of the sale deed. Sections 59 and 60 of Indian Registration Act provides that it shall be presumed that the endorsement made by the Registrar are correct after execution of the sale deed the purchaser got his name mutated in the revenue records by means of orders dated 30.09.2019 and 22.03.2021 and both the mutation orders state that no objections were filed against the application for mutation in spite of issuance of notice of the application by publication. Learned counsel for the informant has stated that the informant has not filed any suit for cancellation of the sale deed or for any other purpose. 8. The matter requires consideration. 9. Let a counter affidavit be filed by learned A.G.A. within three weeks from today. In case counter affidavit is filed, the applicant may file a rejoinder affidavit, if any, within two weeks' thereafter. 10. List this case in the week commencing 21.08.2023. 11. Having considered the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case and without making any observations which may affect the outcome of the case, I am of the view that the aforesaid facts, coupled with the fact that the applicant has no criminal history are sufficient for making out a case for granting interim anticipatory bail to the applicant. 12. In view of the above, the event of arrest/ appearance of applicant-Shiv Ji Goswami (in F.I.R. Shiv Ji) before the learned Trial Court in the aforesaid case crime, he shall be released on interim anticipatory bail on his furnishing personal bond and two solvent sureties, each in the like amount, to the satisfaction of S.H.O./Court concerned on the following conditions and subject to any other conditions that may be fixed by the Trial Court: 13. In default of any of the conditions mentioned above or it is found that applicant has obtained this order concealing any material facts, the Investigating Officer shall be at liberty to file appropriate application for vacation of this interim order." 2. Although a counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the State, nothing has come to light which may persuade this Court to take a view, different from the view taken while passing the aforesaid order, nor the learned A.G.A. has pointed out violation of any of the conditions of interim anticipatory bail committed by the applicant. 3. In view of the aforesaid circumstances, the interim order dated 10.07.2023 is hereby made absolute and the application is allowed in terms of the aforesaid order. Order Date :- 21.8.2023
 
Pradeep/-