SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I need some guidance or direction.
DATE: 2020-05-12
SCORE: 50
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/gi74wv/i_need_some_guidance_or_direction/

--- POST TEXT ---

Update 2: The Police officer didn't show up yesterday, we waited a day and received a call from her today morning. She said she was caught up with another case and asked my neighbour to wait 2 more days. She told my neighbour to call her anytime if there's any trouble or if she needs any medical aid. So far this is the only response we got from all the attempts, it's better than nothing. Will update later on. Sorry if the formatting is bad.

UPDATE 1: Received a response from NCW, they talked to the girl and patched her call to some local representative. A lady cop will visit tomorrow, she also assured that the girl will not be evicted forcefully and they will provide medical support to her and the baby as well as look for shelter. Let's see how it goes. I'll update here if there's any significant resolution and keep try other avenues just to be sure. Thank you all for your response. I really appreciate it.

Tl;dr at the bottom, but I request you to read the whole thing.

Hey everyone, this is a situation regarding my neighbour. She is 24 years old, has a 7 month old baby and she is also 4 months pregnant. She is not very intelligent and blindly trusts anyone. She met a guy 4 years ago through sms, classic fraud love story, and left everyone to be with him. She saw the guy for the first time when she arrived at the station. He was a 50 something dude, she regretted for a bit but had no choice and stayed with him, she feared returning would be fatal.

They married in a temple, the guy tore the documents, anything which would show their marriage as legitimate. She didn't stop, because she trusted him. He was usual abusive, he beat her and emotionally played her every time. Sometimes later she discovered that he has 2 other wives as well. So this guy would jump between wives, abuse them, leave them, stay with another and go back when he felt like it.

He moved this girl to a new place, adjacent to my apartment, we saw him beat her once, obviously intervened. Few days later the guy disappears. This girl thought he was kidnapped by his ex wife who allegedly threatened him to do so. The guy is also a lowly criminal, steals and sells the stolen stuff (yeah I live in a dump actually). Anyway later our suspicions were right, he dumped her.

He didn't leave her any money, when she called the society for help, they actually turner against her and wanted to evict her, they are waiting for the end of lockdown to do that. She tried police, they asked for money and threatened to arrest her instead, called her really inappropriate things. NCW also denied help, we tried local foundation and ngo, no one is willing to help and blaming her.

We even asked the girl to try and put the baby for adoption, she doesn't agree, can't blame her for that. But the baby drinks packaged milk, which we are providing right now. We have tried everything, I am broke as well or I would have helped her financially for sometime, but I quit my job at a very bad time.

So basically she is proper f**d if I put it bluntly, given time she can get back on her feet, but I'm more concerned about the baby, as she is very distraught, doesn't eat for few days, we actually force her. There's only so much anyone can bear before snapping. I am concerned that she might take her life if things don't work out.

When she pleaded with the guy for help you know what he said, "that's your matter". I've never wanted to hurt someone so bad before. So now we might have 5 days left before the lockdown ends, and people here will evict her for sure, forgot to mention that her rent is due as well. Is there anyway to help her get some shelter or some work? I've called so many places and they all turned out to be useless, if the police won't help, who would? And to be honest I've completely lost faith in humanity.

Tl;dr : 24 year old neighbour got defrauded by husband (or something), no one is helping her, not even the cops.