This Criminal Petitions is filed under Section 482 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short ' Cr.P.C .') to quash

the proceedings against the petitioner/accused No.3 in

C.C.No.280 of 2012 on the file of III Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Nampally, Hyderabad, for the offences

punishable under Sections 406 , 420 read with 34 of the Indian

Penal Code , 1860 (for short ' IPC '). 2. The brief facts of the case are that respondent No.2/de

facto complainant is Managing Director of M/s.Medico Abroad

and petitioner/accused No.3 floated a company, M/s.ISM Focal

Point. It is stated that undergraduate degree course in medicine

offered at International school of Medicine of the International

University of Kyrgyzstan, Bishkek at Kyrgyzstan, is equivalent to

the degree of M.B.B.S. in India. Hence, in order to recruit

desirous medical students from India, the petitioner/accused

No.3 entered into MOU with respondent No.2 on 02.07.2007.

Thereafter, accused Nos.1 and 2, who are employees of the

petitioner/accused No.3 firm, not only stolen the data and other

information from respondent No.2 firm and induced the 2 SKS,J Crl.P.No.7902 of 2022 desirous medical students and parents with mala fide intention

but also threatened the staff of respondent No.2 firm. Therefore,

respondent No.2 filed a private complaint in 1253 of 2009 before

the Banajara Hills Police, Hyderabad and after completion of

investigation, a charge sheet was filed vide C.C.No.280 of 2012

before the III Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

Nampally, Hyderabad. 3. Heard Sri Jagadeeswara Rao, learned counsel for the

petitioner as well as Sri S.Ganesh, learned Assistant Public

Prosecutor for respondent No.1-State and Sri M.V.Pratap

Kumar, learned counsel for respondent No.2. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

International School of Medicine of International University of

Kyrgyzstan, entrusted the petitioner/accused No.3 the duty to

supervise the admissions of desirous medical students from

India under the brand name of ISM focal point. He further

submitted that the allegations levelled against the petitioner are

vague in nature and none of offences alleged against the

petitioner constitute offences much or less than the alleged

offences. Hence, he prayed this Court to allow the Criminal

Petition by quashing the proceedings against the petitioner. 3 SKS,J Crl.P.No.7902 of 2022 5. On the other hand, learned counsel for respondent No.2

opposed the submissions of learned counsel for the

petitionerstating thatthere are serious allegations against the

petitioner and the merits or otherwise of the same has to be

gone into by the trial Court. Hence, he prayed to the Court to

dismiss the Criminal Petition. 6. In view of the rival submissions made by both the parties,

this Court has perused the material available on record. The

specific allegations are that accused Nos.1 and 2 having

colluded with the petitioner/accused No.3 committed data theft

in respondent No.2 firm and caused prejudice to respondent

No.2 by inducing desirous medical students and parents from

India. Further, besides committing breach of trust, the accused

persons threatened the employees of respondent No.2. It is

pertinent to note that to quash the proceedings under Section

482 of Cr.P.C, the Court has to see whether the averments in

the complaint prima facie shows that it constitute the offence as

alleged by the Police. 7. At this stage, it is pertinent to note the Judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Madhya Pradesh vs. 4 SKS,J Crl.P.No.7902 of 2022 Surendra Kori 1, wherein in paragraph No.14 it is held as

follows: 8. In the case on hand, the allegations are that the accused

Nos.1 and 2 colluded with the petitioner/accused No.3

committed theft and breach of trust. This Court cannot conduct

mini trial while dealing with the petitions filed under Section

482 of Cr.P.C., must exercise its powers to do real justice

depending on the facts and circumstances of case. It must be

invoked for compelling reasons of abuse of process of law or

glaring injustice or violation of sound principles of criminal

jurisprudence. It is a well settled principle of law that when a 1 (2012) 10 Supreme Court Cases 155 5 SKS,J Crl.P.No.7902 of 2022 prosecution is sought to be intervened by quashment, the test to

be applied is to see whether the uncontroverted allegations as

made, prima facie establish the offence alleged or not in the

present case. According to the Investigating Officer, the

petitioner/accused No.3 induced respondent No.2 and entered

into memorandum of understanding in the presence of accused

Nos.1 and 2 after utilizing the services of LW.1 (complainant) as

per their preplan they have taken away the data and personal

information of LW.1 organization and by using such

information, they have established another orgainzation.

Though the learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that

entire allegations are against accused Nos.1 and 2, who are

employees of this petitioner, the petitioner/accused No.3 is

falsely implicated in this case and he is residing in krygyzstan

for a long time, it is not a ground for quashment of proceedings

against him as the main allegation is that at the instance of the

petitioner/accused No.3 only accused Nos.1 and 2 committed

data theft. As such, the allegations requires trial. In view of the

same and the law laid down by the Apex Court in Surendra

Kori (supra), since the offences alleged against the petitioner are

serious in nature, it requires trial as at this stage it cannot be

concluded that whether the petitioner/accused No.3 is at fault 6 SKS,J Crl.P.No.7902 of 2022 or respondent No.2 is at fault. Hence,this Court is of the

considered opinion that truth or otherwise of the said

allegations has to be decided at the time of trial based on the

evidence to be adduced by both the parties and the Criminal

Petition is liable to be dismissed. Further, since the original C.C.

pertains to the year 2012, the trial Court is directed to dispose

of the C.C. as expeditiously as possible preferably within a

period of six (06) months from the date of receipt of a copy of

this order. 9. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is dismissed. Miscellaneous applications, if any pending, shall also

stand closed.