Confidential data from a New York company that had been entrusted to Mumbai-based BPO Epicenter Technologies Pvt Ltd was compromised recently, the Economic Times reported on Tuesday. An FIR was filed by SJ Amin, a senior manager in the BPO’s human resources department, which said the email accounts of the New York-based debt recovery company,  used to communicate with clients, were illegally accessed from outside the BPO. One of the email addresses was allegedly accessed by a rival BPO company. According to the FIR, five employees of the BPO were given four confidential email IDs and passwords of the New York firm so that they could communicate with clients on behalf of the company. But in April, officials at the BPO learnt that the email accounts had been accessed from other computers and their passwords had been changed. The BPO officials then informed the police and filed a complaint.

The report said under the terms of an April 2018 agreement between Epicenter Technologies and the New York firm, confidential data could not be accessed or used from outside the BPO.  But Epicenter gave one of its employees, who had access to the four email accounts, a laptop that contained a list of the NY firm’s clients, their email IDs and other confidential information. This employee has since left the BPO but has not returned the laptop. Given the alleged role of a competing BPO, police are also investigating whether this is a case of corporate espionage. A case has been registered against unknown persons under sections 43A (compensation for failure to protect data), 66C (identity theft), 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) and 72A (disclosure of information in breach of lawful contract) of the Information Technology Act.

BPOs, due to the nature of their work, have troves of data on their clients’ customers. Safeguarding it, both from internal and external breaches, is a basic requirement. But the recent past, customers’ confidential data has been misused by BPO workers themselves. Here are a couple of such cases:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event