The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) says that it will engage with stakeholders on how to tackle the issues of spam and scams on over-the-top (OTT) platforms (like WhatsApp and Telegram) and RCS (Rich Communication Service) platforms. This comes as part of the meeting of the Joint Committee of Regulators (JCOR) that the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) organised on April 25, 2025. This meeting focused on cross-sector collaboration, with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) also taking part, among others.

MeitY’s plans come in the context of the long-term insistence of telecom companies that the Government needs to address spam on OTTs. Telcos had been asking TRAI to bring OTT under the scope of its spam regulation, the Telecom Commercial Communications Customer Preference Regulations, 2018 (TCCCPR), when the regulator carried out consultations for amending TCCCPR last year. Notably, the Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) had also decided to take up the issue of spam regulation online in June last year . However, earlier this year reports came out that it had decided to put its spam guidelines on hold to prevent overregulation.

Arguing for the applicability of TCCCPR on OTT platforms in December last year , telcos like Bharti Airtel said that TRAI should implement consent requirements (similar to the ones currently present on telecom networks) on digital platforms. This will ensure that businesses send people commercial messages on these platforms with their consent. Other telecom companies also asked for telco-like spam regulation on OTT platforms, stating that businesses were bypassing spam regulations by sending messages through these platforms.

In direct contrast to the telcos, stakeholders like the Broadband India Forum (BIF) suggest that the Government already regulates spam on digital platforms through the Information Technology Act, 2000. To this, Airtel responded that the Act does not specifically address unsolicited commercial communication (spam from business entities). Based on the outcome of the MeitY stakeholder discussion, we could end up seeing new spam frameworks specifically designed for OTT platforms instead of TRAI retrofitting its spam regulation to tackle spam online.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event