The appeal has been filed by the appellant-husband

 Madhu Ranjan against the judgment and decree dated

 19.02.2004 passed by the learned Additional District Judge,

 Jagadhari whereby his petition seeking dissolution of the

 marriage between the parties by a decree of divorce has been

 dismissed. The marriage between the parties was solemnized at

 Yamuna Nagar on 19.04.1998 according to Hindu rites and

 ceremonies. After marriage the parties lived at Karnal. The

 marriage was consummated. It is stated to be a simple

 marriage. From the marriage the parties had a son who was

 born on 09.06.1999. He is residing with the respondent-wife.

 According to the appellant, he is a young person and working as

 Deputy Manager in Maruti Udyog Ltd., Gurgaon. He is a simple AMIT KAUNDAL man and the marriage between the parties was also solemnized 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -2- in very simple manner. After marriage the parties resided at

 Karnal and the marriage was consummated. Both it is stated are

 young and handsome. They were very happy. The appellant

 loved his wife very dearly. His parents also had great love and

 affection for the respondent. It is alleged that the appellant had

 on 21.04.1998 gone to the market at Karnal with his wife

 (respondent). In the market, the respondent complained that

 she was not feeling well and wanted to take rest. Therefore, they

 suddenly returned home. On returning home, the respondent, it

 is alleged, started behaving in an abnormal manner by taking

 deep breaths; besides, running in and out of the house for almost

 two hours. The appellant and his family members were worried

 and they called a doctor. The respondent, however, after about

 two hours became normal. During the same night, the parents of

 the respondent were informed about the incident. They came on

 the next morning and informed that there was nothing wrong

 with the respondent and that it was merely on account of change

 of environment. They represented that every thing would settle

 down after some time. After meeting them, they returned back.

 The parties planned to go to Shimla for their honeymoon on

 24.04.1998. They took a bus from Karnal to Chandigarh. From

 Chandigarh, they were to catch a bus for Shimla. During journey

 in the bus, the respondent, it is alleged all of a sudden started

 laughing and then weeping. She stood up from her seat and

 made strange gestures creating a highly awkward and unbearable AMIT KAUNDAL situation, which was very bad. The parties reached Chandigarh 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -3- and got down from the bus then instead of proceeding to Shimla,

 the appellant took her to his friends house namely Harpreet

 Singh at Mohali where he was residing with his wife Mrs. Neetu.

 There also the respondent behaved in an abnormal manner.

 Compelled by the circumstances that had occurred, the parties

 had to return to Karnal the same night by cancelling their

 programme for Shimla. The parents of the respondent were

 again called and they came on the following morning. They again

 represented that there was nothing wrong with their daughter

 and it was only due to changed environment. The father of the

 respondent stated that the respondent had never gone out of the

 house so she was nervous in their presence. Dr. J. C. Bhatla, a

 Psychiatrist of Karnal was consulted who advised some

 counselling and medicines. The parents of the respondent,

 however, stated that there was no need to consult a doctor or

 give counselling or medicines. The appellant was employed as

 Deputy Manager in Maruti Udhyog Ltd. at Gurgaon. The parents

 of the respondent emphasised that the respondent be taken with

 him to Gurgaon. Therefore, in the first week of May, 1998, he

 took her to Gurgaon where they resided at House No.155,

 Sector-7, Gurgaon. There also the respondent had occasional

 fits. She would often run from the house at odd hours and the

 appellant used to bring her back. She locked herself in the store

 of the house in the evening on 16.05.1998. She was taken out

 after 1½ hours with the help of their neighbours who were AMIT KAUNDAL called. Thereafter the respondent fought with the appellant and 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -4- tore his shirt and cried for entire night without any reason on

 26.05.1998. In the morning she begged pardon for her abnormal

 behaviour. The parents of the respondent were informed

 regularly. Initially they were cooperative. However, as things

 were getting out of control, so the appellant requested for

 consulting a doctor. This was refused with anger by her parents

 and they forbade him from going to a doctor. It was with great

 difficulty that doctors were consulted who advised that such a

 patient can recover after birth of a child. The respondent was

 kept under the consultation of Dr.Shobha Nar of Gurgaon and

 with her treatment the respondent showed some improvement

 and the appellant felt satisfied. During this period the parents of

 the respondent cooperated with the appellant and this was the

 reason that things continued keeping against hope that the

 respondent would recover. Parents of both sides were very nice

 and extended cooperation, love and affection in all respects. The

 parents of the respondent suggested that the younger sister of

 Shruti (respondent) namely Stuti be married with the younger

 brother of the appellant namely Neeraj saying that this would go

 a long way in helping the respondent with her ailment and

 psychology. The said suggestion was agreed by all. The marriage

 between Neeraj, the younger brother of the appellant and Stuti,

 younger sister of the respondent, was solemnized on 19.02.1999.

 Everyone at home was happy with the marriage. The appellant had to go to Japan on an assignment AMIT KAUNDAL from the company from April, 1999 to August, 1999. The 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -5- respondent was six months' pregnant at that time. While in

 Japan, the appellant was constantly in touch with the respondent

 on telephone; besides, letters were also exchanged. During this

 time, the respondent shuttled between Karnal and Yamuna

 Nagar. While she was at Karnal, the appellant's parents had to

 face a rough and tough time because the respondent had fits.

 The respondent had an abnormal behaviour from 09.06.1999 to

 June, 2000 as she had fits on a number of occasions which were

 manageable. The appellant had to shift his residence to Flat

 No.31, Park View Appartment, Sector 15, Phase-II, Gurgaon on

 01.05.2000. Hardly a month had passed, the health of the

 respondent deteriorated. She again started running out of the

 house during nights. She even threw the child of the parties

 mercilessly on the floor without knowing its consequences. The

 child wept uncontrollably and it became a difficult situation. The

 parents of the respondent were called and all that had happened

 was shown to them. They were requested to get consultation

 from a senior psychiatrist but they did not agree and refused to

 cooperate. The condition of the respondent was deteriorating day

 by day but the respondent's parents went away and the

 appellant was in a great fix as the respondent was not

 cooperative. The parties were going in their car in the evening on

 28.10.2000. The respondent opened the window of the car and

 was about to jump out of the car in a fit along with the child. The

 tragedy was avoided by the appellant in a very skilled manner. AMIT KAUNDAL The appellant went to meet his uncle (Satish Chander Sharma) 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -6- at Kurukshetra University sometime in the second week of

 November,2000. While retuning back at about 7.00 P.M, the

 respondent asked the appellant to stop the car at the University

 gate. The respondent came out of the car and created an ugly

 situation. She started weeping and abusing and a crowd

 gathered. The appellant on this called his uncle who came

 running there and took them to his house. The respondent was

 again managed to be shown to Dr. J.C. Bhatla at Karnal on

 15.11.2000 who referred her to be taken to P.G.I. at Chandigarh

 or AIMS at Delhi. The respondent, however, did not cooperate

 and refused to be consulted by any doctor and take any

 medicine. The parents of the respondent were called and they

 came very late at night on 15.11.2000. They held out threats to

 the appellant and his parents of dire consequences. They said

 that they would themselves get the respondent consulted from

 Dr. Kesho Ram of Yamuna Nagar who was M. D. in Psychiatry.

 They also disclosed that the respondent was under his treatement

 before marriage. The parents were also asked as to why they

 concealed this fact from them at the time of marriage but they

 kept silent. The respondent remained at Yamuna Nagar till

 March, 2001. During this period, the appellant visited her at

 Yamuna Nagar several times. He requested them that she be got

 consulted at PGI, Chandigarh for treatment. However, whenever

 the question of treatment arose, they become furious. The father

 of the respondent also started using unparliamentary language AMIT KAUNDAL and threatened the appellant with dire consequences. The 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -7- mother and aunt of the respondent took her to Pune in the end

 of March,2001 where Neeraj, younger brother of the appellant,

 was staying with Stuti. They left the respondent there. The

 appellant and his parents brought the respondents back to

 Gurgaon on 7/8th May, 2001. The respondent then become very

 serious and her behaviour was not controllable. Dr. Rajesh Kumar

 Nagpal, M.D., PGI at Delhi was consulted. He checked the

 respondent and she was found to be suffering from paranoid

 schizophrenia and informed that she could behave quite

 unpredictable. He prescribed medicines for her but the

 respondent refused to take any medicine without the permission

 of her parents. The said fact was again brought to the notice of

 the parents of the respondent and the appellant also called sister

 of the respondent namely Stuti and Neeraj from Pune who came

 in the morning of 03.06.2001. The respondent on the same

 evening on 03.06.2001 brought a knife from the kitchen and was

 about to stab the child. She was checked with force and then she

 ran out of the house and threatened that she would kill

 everybody. The things were highly out of control and the

 situation was panicky. The appellant called the parents and

 brother of the respondent. The father and Shri Anirudh brother

 of the respondent came in the morning on 04.06.2001. Both of

 them saw that the situation was beyond control. They took the

 respondent to Yamuna Nagar and promised that she would be

 got admitted in a proper hospital at Yamuna Nagar or at PGI, AMIT KAUNDAL Chandigarh. The respondent was residing at Yamuna Nagar since 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -8- 04.06.2001. The appellant went twice to know about her welfare

 and further asked for her treatment but the appellant was

 illtreated and was not allowed to meet her. The said facts it is

 stated amount to cruelty, mental and physical which has not

 been condoned by the appellant. The factum of disease which

 the respondent had not disclosed at the time of marriage.

 Neither the respondent nor her parents disclosed that the

 respondent was suffering from mental disorder before marriage.

 Things had been tactfully and fraudulently concealed. A resume

 of the facts submitted it is mentioned clearly establishes that the

 respondent had been suffering intermittently from mental

 disorder of such a kind and to such an extent that the appellant

 could not reasonably be expected to live with her. The disability

 of mind of the respondent was of such a nature which results in

 abnormally aggressive or seriously irresponsible conduct on her

 part. It is submitted that the mental disorder had completely

 arrested the development of her mind and she suffers from

 inability to manage her affairs. The things had reached to such

 an extent that the appellant could not safely live with the

 respondent and he had apprehension in her company. The fact

 that the respondent was suffering from mental illness had been

 concealed and was kept as a top secret at the time of marriage.

 The respondent was suffering from the disease before her

 marriage and this information was wilfully suppressed and had it

 been disclosed, the appellant would not have married her. The AMIT KAUNDAL consent of the appellant had been obtained by fraud and 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -9- misrepresentation. In the circumstances, matrimonial relief of divorce is

 claimed by the appellant on the ground that the respondent has

 been incurably of unsound mind and has been suffering

 continuously or intermittently from mental disorder of such a kind

 and to such an extent that the appellant could not reasonably be

 expected to live with the respondent. On notice respondent appeared and filed her written

 statement. The fact of the marriage between the parties and

 they having a child were admitted. It is stated that the parties

 are educated. It is denied that the marriage was solemnized in a

 simple manner or that no dowry was given in the marriage.

 Rather a sum of Rs.8.00 lacs was spent on the marriage by the

 parents of the respondent. Even thereafter cash and other

 articles were given many times; besides, on the demand of the

 appellant and his near relatives a Maruti 800 car was given to the

 appellant though it was purchased in the name of the appellant.

 The amount, however, was spent by the parents of the

 respondent by way of demand draft and some through cash. It is

 admitted that the appellant is a young person and working as

 Deputy Manager in Maruti Udhyog Limited, Gurgaon. It is,

 however, denied that he is a simple man. Rather he had all bad

 habits. It is stated as incorrect that the appellant is a simple

 man. In fact he had all bad habits which have been detailed in

 the additional pleas taken by the respondent. After marriage the AMIT KAUNDAL parties resided at Gurgaon and the marriage was consummated. 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -10- It is stated that the parties are young and handsome couple and

 they lived happily till the marriage of Stuti Sharma, younger

 sister of the respondent, who was married with the younger

 brother of the appellant on 19.2.1999. Thereafter their relations

 became strained. The allegations of the respondent's

 intemperate behaviour as alleged, it is stated are cock and bull

 story. It is denied that the respondent complained that she was

 unwell on 21.04.1998 nor they went to the market as alleged. It

 is stated as incorrect to suggest that the respondent had taken

 deep and long breaths in an abnormal manner and started

 running. It is also denied that during the night the respondent's

 parents were informed who came on the following day at Karnal.

 No such incident ever occurred as alleged. It is stated as

 incorrect to suggest that the appellant ever planned to go to

 Shimla on a honeymoon. Rather when the respondent asked him

 as to when they would go for a trip then he informed that when

 he gets his leave travel concession (LTC) from his company, then

 they would go for a honeymoon. The respondent in a good faith

 thought that the appellant might have planned to go on a

 honeymoon on availing leave travel concession. Therefore, she

 never pressed him or even dared to press him because it was too

 early due to a new marriage. The date '24.04.1998' alleged by

 the appellant, it is stated, is a false creation of mind only to fit

 the case in four corners of law. It is denied that the respondent

 ever travelled with the appellant to Chandigarh or Mohali in a AMIT KAUNDAL Bus. The respondent even did not know Harpreet Singh and his 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -11- wife Neeta. It seemed that these names had been inserted

 intentionally and deliberately to create evidence. Since the

 respondent never visited Chandigarh or Mohali in the company of

 the appellant, therefore, the question of seeing the house of the

 appellant's friend did not arise. It is stated what to talk of

 abnormality and similarly the question of returning back to Karnal

 without honeymoon trip is denied. It is stated as incorrect to

 suggest that she was immediately taken to Dr. J.C. Bathla nor

 the appellant ever went to any Psychiatrist because there was no

 problem of any kind whatsoever with her. The respondent, it is

 stated, is well educated and B.A. (Hons) In English and M.A.

 English. Before marriage she was working as an English Lecturer

 at Aggarsain College, Jagadhri and DAV Girls College, Yamuna

 Nagar and her student career was throughout brilliant. Her

 results were meritorious and her students even gave good

 results. Had the respondent been a patient of Schizophrenia and

 a patient of psychopathic disorder, then certainly she could not

 have taken complete education; besides, she would not have

 served the best Institutions of Yamuna Nagar as Lecturer. There

 would have been some complaints and abstentions during her

 career. This according to the respondent shows the mala fide

 intention of the appellant to create a false evidence to put

 pressure on her and her family members to get a divorce through

 the back door, which is impermissible in law. The respondent, it

 is stated, never got any fit of any kind whatsoever throughout AMIT KAUNDAL her life what to talk of occasional fits as alleged. It is stated that 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -12- the respondent resided in the company of the appellant at

 Gurgaon but it is emphatically denied that she had ever ran from

 the house at odd hours. If a patient was of psychopathic

 disorder, then he/she could not know what is odd hours and what

 is exact hours and she or he would act at any hour and not

 particularly at odd hours. It is stated as incorrect to suggest that

 she had ever shut herself in a store on 16.05.1998 as alleged. It

 is also stated as incorrect that on 26.05.1998, she ever fought or

 tore away the shirt of the appellant as alleged or that she ever

 created a fuss or any abnormal behaviour as alleged. Therefore,

 the question of informing the parents of the respondent did not at

 all arise. Had this been the situation then certainly a Panchayat/

 Biradari would have been convened either by the appellant or by

 the respondent, which was not so in the case. It is also stated as

 incorrect that she was ever taken to Dr. Shobha Nar for mental

 disorder. Rather she visited her i.e. lady doctor Shobha Nar due

 to her daily routine check up of pregnancy. The parents of the

 appellant never cooperated with the respondent and her parents.

 It is stated as correct that the respondent's parents put forth the

 suggestion that Stuti, real younger sister of the respondent, be

 married with Neeraj, younger brother of the appellant. This was

 not on account of intention of any treatment of the respondent

 because there was no necessity for such a treatment as the

 respondent has been hale and hearty. It was rather in the hope

 that the family was tolerable and Neeraj was in service and the AMIT KAUNDAL couple would live happily, like the couple of the respondent. It is 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -13- stated that though there were some demands of dowry, these

 were ignored. It is stated that had the respondent been a patient

 of mental disorder as alleged then no prudent man and family

 would take the risk of marriage of their son with the sister of

 such a patient because some times this disease may be

 hereditary and may be present or would come in Stuti also. This

 showed that till the marriage of Stuti, younger sister of the

 respondent, with the younger brother of the appellant everything

 was alright and there was nothing abnormal. It is admitted that

 from April 1999 to August 1999 the appellant was at Japan. The

 respondent was pregnant and both were in constant touch with

 each other and letters were also exchanged between them. Had

 the respondent been a patient of mental disorder then certainly

 there would have been recitals of the disease in these letters

 also. It is submitted that the appellant shifted his residence in

 Gurgaon due to expiry of the lease period of two years. It is

 emphatically denied that the respondent ever threw the child

 mercilessly on the floor as alleged. Rather till date the

 respondent was keeping her child with her with all love and care

 and the appellant had never bothered to see or care for his child.

 Had the respondent not been looking after the child properly,

 then certainly the appellant would have filed a petition for taking

 custody of the child as well. It is stated as incorrect to suggest

 that the parents of the respondent ever asked the appellant to

 consult any doctor regarding the mental disorder and neither did AMIT KAUNDAL such a question arise as the respondent was not having any such 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -14- problem of mental disorder as alleged. It is stated as totally

 incorrect that the respondent ever opened the window of the car

 and tried to jump from the running car along with the child on

 28.10.2000. It seemed that this fact had been mentioned in a

 manipulated manner to show that the respondent was a mental

 case. The story of Kurukshetra is also denied as incorrect.

 However it is stated as correct that an uncle of the appellant was

 residing at Kurukshetra and he had inquired regarding the

 academic qualification of the respondent from Kurukshetra

 University, Kurukshetra before marriage. It is stated as incorrect

 that the parents of the respondent threatened the appellant and

 his family members of dire consequences. Had it been so, then

 certainly the respondent and her parents would have initiated

 litigation against the appellant but the respondent and her

 parents kept on waiting that good senses might prevail on the

 appellant. It is stated as incorrect to suggest that the parents of

 the respondent ever informed the appellant that the respondent

 was ill before the marriage. It is also stated as incorrect that the

 parents of the respondent took the respondent back to Yamuna

 Nagar for the purpose of treatment in March 2001. The

 respondent, however, went to Pune on a pleasure trip to see her

 younger sister and bother in law and not due to any other

 reason. It is stated as incorrect that she was given treatment

 from Dr. Rajesh K. Nagpal at Delhi. It seemed that the appellant

 got some manipulation of the ingredients of Section 13 of Hindu AMIT KAUNDAL Marriage Act to prove his case by playing foul play. The 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -15- respondent had travelled from Yamuna Nagar to Pune in a train

 and then back from Pune to Delhi also by train and had she been

 mental then certainly she could not travel by train properly. This

 showed the mala fide of' the appellant. It is stated as incorrect

 that any incident of trying to stab the child ever happened on

 03.06.2001. It is stated that it is the appellant who had deserted

 the respondent without any sufficient cause. He had snatched

 away all her 'streedhana', gifts and dowry articles and left the

 respondent and her minor child at Yamuna Nagar at God's mercy.

 It is stated as incorrect that the respondent was brought to

 Yamuna Nagar by her father and brother Anirudh. In the

 additional pleas, it is stated by the respondent that the actual

 facts were that the marriage between the parties was solemnized

 at Yamuna Nagar according to Hindu rites and ceremonies on

 19.04.1998. The marriage was solemnized in a befitting manner

 and a sum of Rs.8.00 lacs was spent by her parents because the

 appellant was B.Tech (Mechanical) and was permanently

 employed in Maruti Udhyog, Gurgaon. The parties lived happily

 till 19.02.1999 and even some more time. During this period the

 appellant and his parents and near relatives raised some

 demands, which were fulfilled by the respondent and her parents.

 A Maruti 800 car was also given to the appellant and it was got

 registered in his name. The amount, however, was given by the

 respondent's father some by way of demand draft and some

 through cash. Seeing the attitude of the appellant and the AMIT KAUNDAL service prospects of his younger brother namely Neeraj, the 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -16- respondent's father thought it better to settle the younger sister

 of the respondent with the younger brother of the appellant. The

 marriage between them was also solemnized in a very befitting

 manner by ignoring some demands of dowry of the appellant and

 his family members taking into consideration that it was a

 common practice. Had the respondent been a patient of mental

 disorder, it is stated, then certainly the appellant and his family

 members would not have engaged Neeraj with the younger sister

 of the respondent namely Stuti because no prudent man would

 take such a high risk. This according to the respondent showed

 that the appellant had manipulated the things according to his

 wishes. It is stated that the true facts were that the appellant

 and his father daily consumed alcohol and whenever the

 respondent asked the appellant not to take alcohol at home

 because they are Brahmins and in their Sanskriti, the same was

 not allowed, then the appellant would give a severe beating to

 the respondent and this had happened many a times. On one

 occasion due to criminal attitude of the appellant and the

 beating, the respondent had a miscarriage on 31.10.2001. This

 though was a criminal offence under Section 314 of the Indian

 Penal Code but the respondent never felt that the appellant

 would leave the respondent at the mercy of God. Not only this, it

 is alleged, that the appellant started bringing his girl friend at the

 house and clearly informed the respondent that he could not

 leave her company. The respondent asked the appellant a AMIT KAUNDAL number of times regarding the whereabouts of the girl so that 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -17- she may go to her house and ask her not to ruin her life. Instead

 of giving her address, the appellant started creating mental and

 physical torture for the respondent. He last left her at Yamuna

 Nagar on 04.06.2001. Thereafter, he had manipulated the false

 story of mental disorder and as such the appellant could not take

 benefit of his own wrong. The respondent and her parents even

 after 04.06.2001 tried their level best to tackle the situation and

 asked the family members to keep the respondent with him at his

 place of posting but he flatly refused to keep her. He asked the

 father of the respondent that he would get a divorce soon and

 marry another girl. Thereafter he filed the present false and

 frivolous petition for taking divorce which was impermissible in

 law. On the pleading of the parties, the learned Additional

 District Judge framed the following issues:- In order to establish his case, the appellant examined

 himself as PW-1; besides, he examined his father Shri Harish

 Chander Sharma as PW-2. He also examined his uncle Satish

 Chander Sharma as PW-3; besides, he examined Dr. Renu Bhatia

 from Delhi as PW-4. The appellant and his father deposed on the AMIT KAUNDAL lines as taken in the petition. Satish Chander Sharma (PW-3) 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -18- deposed regarding the incident that had occurred at Kurukshetra. Dr. Renu Bhatia (PW-4) tendered her affidavit in

 evidence in which it is deposed that she is M.Phill and consulting

 clinical Psychologist with 14 years of experience as Consulting

 Clinical Psychologist. She had been working with Dr. Rajesh

 Kumar Nagpal MD (PGI) who was a Consultant Neuro

 Psychologist and Psychotherapist. Dr. Rajesh Kumar Nagpal and

 she herself were practicing at Delhi. She had personally examined

 Mrs. Shruti Sharma i.e. the respondent on 22.05.2001. She was

 referred to her by Dr. Rajesh Kumar Nagpal, MD vide prescription

 slip dated 21.05.2001. She had worked with Dr. R. K. Nagpal and

 was conversent with his handwriting. The original prescription

 slip had been seen by her which was Ex.P-1. She had personally

 and thoroughly examined the patient Mrs. Shruti Sharma and her

 test report was Ex.P-2 which was signed by her and was prepared

 under her instruction. It was issued after having consultations

 with Dr. Rajesh Kumar Nagpal. In cross-examination it is stated

 by Dr. Renu Bhatia (PW-4) that she prefixed the word 'Doctor'

 before her name because she had undergone clinical training.

 However, she could not sight any instructions by which she has

 been authorized to use that word. She could not tell whether she

 could prefix the word 'Doctor' before her name or not. She did

 M.Phill from Central University of Psychiatry, Ranchi University in

 1987. The test that was conducted by her in the present case

 was known as Projective Test. In this test, they show the patient AMIT KAUNDAL photographs of some object. It was a conformity test. She did 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -19- not conduct any test to check the IQ of the patient.

 Schizophrenia, it is stated, was of five-six types. She could not

 say that in Modi's Medical Jurisprudence, it has been reported

 that if there was disorder in secretion from sex glands, it may

 lead to schizophrenia. It is stated as incorrect that she had given

 her report Ex.P-2 falsely at the dictates of the appellant to help

 him. It is also stated as incorrect that the respondent was hale

 and hearty and was not suffering any such disease as had been

 informed by her. A perusal of the report Ex.P-2 shows that the

 respondent was administered the Rorschach Psychodiagnostic

 Test. The test behaviour of the respondent has been mentioned

 as cooperative during testing but became restless midway and

 desired to leave the room. Besides, bizarre responses, space

 responses, confabulation and contamination were observed in the

 protocol. The test findings are mentioned that productivity was

 less than average within average reaction time. Her organizing

 and synthesizing capacity was poor. Reality contact was

 diminished with decline in ego strength. She was unable to

 empathize with human beings and unable to conform to social

 norms. The conclusions are mentioned that there were less

 number of responses, low productivity, bizarre responses,

 contamination, confabulation and space responses suggestive of

 schizophrenia with paranoid features. Therefore, according to Dr.

 Renu Bhatia (PW-4), the respondent was a patient of

 schizophrenia with paranoid features. AMIT KAUNDAL The respondent in her defence examined Dr. Raj 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -20- Kumar, Principal of the Maharaja Aggarsen College, Jagadhari

 was examined as RW-1. He tendered his affidavit in evidence.

 According to Dr. Raj Kumar (RW-1), the respondent was working

 in their college i.e. Maharaja Aggarsen Mahavidhyla, Jagadhari as

 English Lecturer under the self financing scheme from

 07.07.2003 continuously till date of deposing the affidavit i.e.

 19.09.2003. According to him, during the stay of the respondent

 in the college, her work and conduct had been quite good and

 she was a good and competent teacher. There was no complaint

 of any kind whatsoever against her. They had issued experience

 certificate Ex.R-1 in this regard to her. In cross-examination it is

 stated by Dr. Raj Kumar (RW-1) that he knew the father of the

 respondent who was the Principal of DAV Senior Secondary

 School, Yamuna Nagar. He knew him for the last seven-eight

 years being Principal of the school. It is stated that he had not

 brought any record of medical leave of the respondent. He

 voluntarily stated that the respondent did not avail any medical

 leave. As per the time table, the respondent takes three-four

 period in a day with breaks in these period. One period, it is

 stated, is of forty-five minutes. Both the medical doctors i.e. Dr. Kesho Ram Gupta

 (RW-2) and Vikram Bharti (RW-3) examined by the respondent

 stated that after her examination that they found no psychiatric

 illness in the respondent and she was normal. The respondent also examined her father Mam Chand AMIT KAUNDAL Sharma (RW-4), who tendered his affidavit in evidence which is 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -21- deposed on the lines of the written statement of the respondent.

 It is stated that he spent a sum of Rs.8.00 lacs on the marriage

 and also gave cash and other articles a number of times

 thereafter. He also purchased a Maruti car in the name of the

 appellant though some amount was paid by him by way of

 demand draft and some through cash. It is stated that the

 respondent was hale and hearty and had no problem of any type

 of mental disorder what to talk of schizophrenia and she had

 never acted abnormally in her whole life. The appellant and his

 father it is stated consumed alcohol daily and gave a severe

 beating to his daughter Shruti a number of time. The appellant

 left his daughter and her son Sudhanshu alias Madhav of Yamuna

 Nagar on 04.06.2001 entirely at God's mercy. The learned Additional District Judge considered the

 evidence and material on record and held that Dr. Renu Bhatia

 (PW-4) was not a qualified doctor and she was M.Phill. Her

 statement was held to be of little value. The test conducted was

 held to be not a reliable test to judge the mental disorder. A

 reference was made to Oxford Text Book of Psychiatry by Michael

 Gelder and others third edition at page 42, that the projective

 tests such as Rorschach Tests were not recommended to assess

 the mental status of a patient because their validity had not been

 established. It was also held that the report of Dr. Renu Bhatia

 (PW-4) which is dated 22.05.2001 showed that there was no

 medical evidence on the file for the period prior to that. Some AMIT KAUNDAL documents had been placed on the file prior to that. Some 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -22- marked documents had been placed on the file but those could

 not be read in evidence for want of proof. It was held that it

 could not be believed that the respondent remained critically ill

 during her stay with the appellant for a period of three years and

 during this period she was not got examined by any qualified

 Psychiatrist nor any such Psychiatrist had been examined. On

 the other hand, the respondent had examined two qualified

 Psychatrists. Both were holding Masters Degree in Psychiatry.

 They had stated that the respondent was not suffering from any

 mental ailment and she was normal from all angles and there was

 no reason to disbelieve them. The mental status of the

 respondent, it was observed, could be judged from the fact that

 she was highly qualified holding a Masters Degree in English.

 She was a Lecturer in a College and was imparting education to

 the satisfaction of all as had been stated by Dr. Raj Kumar,

 Principal (RW-1). Had she been suffering from acute mental

 disorder. It was not possible for her to receive such high

 qualification and teach students in a college. She had also given

 birth to a male child. Accordingly, the petition of the appellant

 is dismissed. During the pendency of the appeal, a Division Bench

 of this Court of which one of us (S.S.Saron, J) was a Member,

 passed a detailed order on 30.11.2004 for medical examination

 of the respondent by a Board of Doctors to be constituted by the

 Medical Superintendent of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical AMIT KAUNDAL Science (PGIMS), Chandigarh to examine the respondent with 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -23- regard to her alleged illness of paranoid schizophrenia and submit

 a report in this regard. The learned Senior counsel appearing for

 the appellant had contended that the petition for divorce was

 filed on the solitary ground that the respondent-wife was

 suffering from mental disorder of such a kind and to such an

 extent that the appellant could not reasonably be expected to live

 with her. It was inter alia contended that the appellant had in

 fact submitted an application dated 21.05.2003 for medical

 examination of the respondent by expert doctors of the Post

 Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Chandigarh. The filing of

 such an application was necessitated as the three doctors who

 were summoned by the Court at the instance of the appellant had

 though been duly served but they did not appear to testify. It

 was submitted that the application had erroneously been

 dismissed by the learned trial Court vide order dated 25.07.2003.

 Learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellant had

 contended that this Court may order medical examination of the

 respondent wife in the light of the observations of the Supreme

 Court in Sharda v. Dharampal, AIR 2003 SC 3450. Learned Senior counsel appearing for the respondent

 strenuously contended that the respondent was not suffering

 from any mental disorder of paranoid schizophrenia and the

 ground had been taken by the appellant only as a ruse to get

 divorce from his wife. It was submitted that the brother of the

 appellant was married to the sister of the respondent and the AMIT KAUNDAL said marriage was solemnized ten months after the marriage 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -24- between the parties to the present petition. Learned Senior

 counsel for the respondent was, however, agreeable to the

 medical examination of the respondent by a panel or a Board of

 Doctors to be constituted by the PGI, Chandigarh. The Supreme Court in Sharda's case (supra) has held

 that a Matrimonial Court has the power to order a person to

 undergo medical test and passing of such an order is not in

 violation of the right of the personal liberty under Article 21 of

 the Constitution of India. Medical examination of a party it was

 held can be ordered by a Court either suo motu or at the instance

 of the party. The said power, however, is to be exercised if the

 appellant had a strong prima facie case and if there is sufficient

 material before the Court. It was noticed that the appellant in

 order to substantiate his case, had summoned four doctors, one

 of them was examined and the other three though served did not

 appear for giving their evidence. One of them had send his

 request for adjournment. The second refused to appear and the

 third did not appear despite service. Therefore, it was held that

 there was a strong case of seeking medical examination of the

 respondent by a panel of doctors of the Psychiatry Department of

 PGI, Chandigarh. This in fact was not opposed by the learned

 Senior Counsel for the respondent and he rather expressed full

 willingness of the respondent to undergo the medical

 examination. It was accordingly directed that the respondent

 shall appear before the Medical Superintendent of PGI, AMIT KAUNDAL Chandigarh who was to constitute an appropriate Board of 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -25- Doctors to examine the respondent in respect of her alleged

 illness of Paranoid Schizophrenia and submit a report in this

 regard. The report of the Medical Board comprising of Prof. P.

 Kulhara, Head, Department of Psychiatry, Chairman; Dr. S.

 Chakraborty, Assistant Professor, Department of Psychiatry,

 Member and Dr. R. K. Sharma, Deputy Medical Superintendent,

 Member constituted to examine the respondent has been

 received. The respondent appeared before the Medical Board. A

 detailed history was taken and she was examined by Dr. Subo

 Chakraborty, Assistant Professor, Department of Psychiatry. A

 detailed personal history, family history, educational history,

 occupational history and marital history of the respondent were

 obtained from her, her father and mother. To supplement the

 history, attempts to contact her husband Mr. Madhu Ranjan

 Sharma (appellant) were made though in vain. It is mentioned

 that it appeared that four years ago i.e. two years after her

 marriage, she had an abortion. Following this abortion, she came

 to her parent home, and then the whole process to seek divorce

 from her was initiated. This course of action to seek divorce from

 the respondent on grounds of mental illness in her was

 commenced by her husband. It was alleged that the respondent

 was mentally ill. It was further claimed that the respondent had

 been examined by a Clinical Psychologist and possibly three

 Psychiatrists. This was denied in the lower Court by the AMIT KAUNDAL respondent as well as her parents. They also denied this during 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -26- her examination is Psychiatry OPD. The respondent Smt. Shruti

 Sharma appeared before the Medical Board along with her father

 on 13.01.2005 and was subjected to detailed mental status

 examination. During examination by the Medical Board, she was

 found to be pleasant, cooperative and communicative. She was

 well oriented to time, place and person, had reasonable power of

 abstraction and thinking, behaved appropriately and responded

 to questions promptly and fittingly. She denied having any

 symptoms of mental illness such as disturbance of sleep and

 appetite, disturbance emotions, mood, thinking and cognition etc.

 She informed the Board that she was coping well with her life,

 her son and her job. The Board was informed that she was

 working as a Teacher in a local college. The Board was unable to

 elicit any abnormality on examination with reference to her

 mental-cognitive functioning. The Medical Board also examined

 her Psychological Test Report which also corroborated absence of

 any psychological or psychiatry disturbance. The Board gave its

 opinion as follows:- The above opinion conclusively establishes that the

 respondent is not suffering from any mental disorder which may

 be said to be of such a nature that the appellant cannot

 reasonably be expected to live with her. The opinion that has

 been given by the Medical Board can be read in evidence keeping

 in view the spirit of Section 14 of the Family Courts Act, 1984

 which envisages that a family Court may receive as evidence any

 report, statement, documents, information or matter that may, in

 its opinion, assisted to deal effectually with a dispute, whether or

 not the same would be otherwise relevant or admissible under

 the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . The said provision has softened

 the rigours of the Indian Evidence Act in the matter of

 admissibility of documents and is not restricted by the rules of

 relevancy for admissibility of documents that is provided. The

 provisions of the Family Courts Act have been enacted with a

 view to promote conciliation in and secure speedy settlements of,

 disputes relating to marriage and family affairs and for matters AMIT KAUNDAL connected therewith. The present dispute being a matrimonial 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -28- one relating to family affiars. The spirit of the said provisions

 which are applicable in Family Courts can be applied in all family

 disputes before a matrimonial Court as well and in this Court in

 appeal as an appeal is a continuation of the original proceedings.

 There is no reason whatsoever to doubt the report of the Medical

 Board of PGI, Chandigarh which is an expert body on the matter

 of assessment of mental disorder of a patient. Learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellant,

 however, has contended that the respondent in fact has been

 incurably of unsound mind and has intermittently been suffering

 from mental disorder of such a kind and to such an extent that

 the appellant cannot reasonably be expected to live with her. It

 is submitted that at the time of examination by the Board, the

 respondent may not be suffering from the fit and, therefore, the

 Board has given the opinion by which no abnormality could be

 detected even though it is there. In order to appreciate the

 contention of learned senior counsel for the appellant, the

 provisions of Section 13 (1) (iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955

 may be noticed, which reads as under:- Explanation- In this clause,- As against this, the respondent examined two doctors

 i.e. Dr. Kesho Ram Gupta, M.D. Psychiatry, Brij Puri, Yamuna

 Nagar, RW-2. Dr. Kesho Ram Gupta, MD Psychiatry, Brij Puri,

 Yamuna Nagar (RW-2) tendered his affidavit in evidence in which

 he deposed that he had examined the respondent on 08.03.2003

 for psychiatric examination purposes. He examined the

 respondent from all angles and no abnormality of any kind

 whatsoever was detected in her. She was normal from all angles.

 He had seen the original slip issued by him. The attested copy of

 the same was Ex.R-2. In cross-examination it is stated that he

 was MD Psychiatry. He treat patents suffering from mental

 disorder and was running his hospital since 1990. It is stated as

 correct that his clinic-cum-hospital is located in front of DAV

 Senior Secondary School, Yamuna Nagar. It is stated as correct

 that father of the respondent was Principal in that school and he

 knew him for the last four-five years. Shruti (respondent) had

 come to his hospital for psychiatric examination. A patient is

 referred to PGI if he could not handle him. It is stated that there

 was no need to conduct any projective test on the respondent,

 therefore, it was not conducted. He did not conduct any IQ test

 of the respondent since it was not required. He conducted only

 history and mental status examination of the hospital. It is

 stated as correct that the medicines olanzapine and AMIT KAUNDAL Trihexyphenieyl is prescribed to a patient of schizophrenia which 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -31- is prescribed to a patient in number of conditions. He voluntarily

 stated that he has not prescribed any such medicines to the

 respondent. Dr. Vikram Bharti, Bharti Psychiatric Hospital, Yamuna

 Nagar (RW-3) tendered his affidavit in evidence in which he

 deposed that he examined the respondent on 28.05.2003 for

 psychiatric evaluation. He examined the patients from all angles

 and no psychiatric illness of any kind was found in her. The

 patient was normal from all angles. He issued a certificate to the

 patient Shruti Sharma (respondent). He had seen the original

 and attested copy which was Ex.R-3. In cross-examination it is

 stated that he was MD, DNB (Psychiatry). He was running his

 clinic-cum-hospital for the last more than one year. The

 respondent when she came to him in his hospital informed her

 that her divorce petition was pending in Court and she wanted to

 get her mental status examined. She was accompanied by her

 father at that time. He did not her father earlier. Thereafter, the

 father of the respondent met him two-three times. He did not

 conduct any projective test on the respondent. He also did not

 conduct any IQ test. It is stated as incorrect that in patients of

 schizophrenia fits occur occasionally. The symptoms of

 schizophrenia have been mentioned are suspiciousness, talking to

 self, laughing and weeping by self and at time the patient

 becomes non-communicative and does not respond. A patient

 suffering from schizophrenia can study and can be qualified. At AMIT KAUNDAL the time when the respondent came to him she was having 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -32- previous record of her clinical psychologist and he had gone

 through the record and mentioned this fact in his record. He

 conducted only mental status examination on the respondent.

 They could manage all the patients of schizophrenia in their

 hospital and it is not needed to send them to PGI. In a single

 examination he could find out whether a patient was suffering

 from schizophrenia or not. Therefore, it may be noticed that there is evidence of

 two doctors produced by the respondent who both had found the

 respondent to be normal; besides, the Board of Doctors of PGI,

 Chandigarh, has also found the respondent to be normal with no

 abnormality in her. Even otherwise the Supreme Court in Kollam

 Chandra Sekhar v. Kollam Padma Latha , 2013 (4) R.C.R. (Civil)

 655, has held that disease of Schizophrenia is not of such a

 nature that it would make the life of husband miserable and the

 husband was held not entitled to seek dissolution of marriage.

 The disease of Schizophrenia was explained in the said judgment . A reference was made to the case of Vinita Saxena v. Pankaj

 Pandit , (2006) 3 SCC 778 wherein the Supreme Court had in

 detail examined the issue of Schizophrenia. It was also held that

 the facts in the said case were different from the facts and

 evidence on record with the case that was being dealt with. Therefore, the observations made in the judgment in Vinita

 Saxena 's case (supra) for grant of decree of dissolution of

 marriage under Section 13 (1) (ia) and Section 13 (1) (iii) of the AMIT KAUNDAL Hindu Marriage Act could not be applied to the fact situation of 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -33- the case it was dealing with. However, what was said in Vinita

 Saxena 's case (supra) on the issue of the disease of

 schizophrenia were noticed as follows:- In the present case as has already been noticed, the

 respondent is stated to be leading a healthy life. She appeared

 as her own witness as RW-5 and tendered her affidavit in

 evidence. She has deposed that she is hale and hearty and had

 no problem of any type of mental disorder what to talk of

 schizophrenia. The allegations in the petition had been denied.

 She was cross-examination at length. However, nothing unusual

 has been brought out from her cross-examination which would

 suggest that she was in any manner abnormal. Besides, she has

 done well in her studies and is working as an English Lecturer in a

 College. Her Principal Dr. Raj Kumar (RW-1) has deposed that

 during her stay in the college, her work and conduct was quite

 good. She was a good and competent teacher and there was no

 complaint of any kind whatsoever against her. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondent has placed

 reliance on Sona Bala Bora and others v. Jyotirindra

 Bhatacharjee , (2005) 4 SCC 501, wherein it has been held that AMIT KAUNDAL 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -37- proof of unsoundness of mind need not be proved only by

 medical evidence and can be proved by conduct also. However,

 in the said case, it was held that burden of proof lies on the party

 who sets up the plea of unsoundness of mind and the burden is

 discharged by proving at least by balance of probabilities. The

 said case related to the execution of deed of transfer which it was

 alleged an outcome of an unsound mind. It did not relate to grant

 of matrimonial relief of divorce on the ground of unsound mind. The other case cited by learned Senior Counsel for the

 appellant is Naveen Kohli v. Neelu Kohli, JT 2006 (3) SC 491. The

 said case related to grant of divorce on the ground of cruelty.

 The question considered was whether irretrievable breakdown of

 marriage may be a ground for granting divorce. The question of

 irretrievable breakdown of marriage is admittedly not a ground of

 divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act . Therefore, this Court is not

 to go into the said question. Learned Senior Counsel for the appellant has,

 however, contended that keeping in view the long separation and

 the fact that the marriage has irretrievably broken down, this

 Court may grant matrimonial relief of divorce to the appellant as

 the chances of the parties living together are absolutely remote. We, however, are unable to agree with the said

 contention as there is no such ground under the Hindu Marriage

 Act by which matrimonial relief of divorce can be granted on the

 ground of irretrievable break down of marriage. In Darshan AMIT KAUNDAL Gupta v. Radhika Gupta , (2013) 9 SCC 1 divorce was sought by 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -38- the husband on the grounds of cruelty and unsound mind/mental

 disorder of wife. The husband had alleged that the cumulative

 effect of mental disorientation and intemperate/aggressive/

 erratic behaviour of the wife was of such order and extent that he

 could not reasonably be expected to live with her and living with

 her would result in subjecting himself to cruelty. The wife had

 suffered brain damage and severe cognitive deficiency

 immediately after she was subjected to cesarean operation for

 delivery of child. However, according to opinion of medical

 expert by virtue of therapeutic and neuro-psychological

 rehabilitation measure she had recovered to a considerable

 extent so much so she finally had only mild to moderate cognitive

 deficiencies and moderate intelligence. The experts opined that

 she expected normally emotional responses and was able to

 discharge her matrimonial obligations. Though she would have

 recovered a lot more, had she got emotional support from her

 husband which she did not get. It was held that there was no

 evidence to show the wife alleged intemperate, aggressive,

 erratic behaviour such as shouting and screaming without

 provocation or cause, getting up at mid-night and not allowing

 husband to sleep etc. as alleged. No grounds for grant of divorce

 were held to be made out. As regards irretrievable breakdown of

 marriage, a reference was made to the case of Vishnu Dutt

 Sharma v. Manju Sharma (2009) 6 SCC 379 wherein the

 Supreme Court held as follows:- AMIT KAUNDAL 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -39- Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case

 it was not possible to grant a decree of divorce on the ground of

 irretrievable breakdown of marriage. In the present case as well the position is somewhat

 similar that is the respondent has expressed her desire to live

 with her husband (appellant). Learned Senior Counsel has also placed reliance on the

 case, Durga Prasanna Tripathy v. Arundhati Tripathy, JT 2005 (7)

 SC 596. The said case relates to divorce on the grounds of

 cruelty and desertion. In the said case, the allegations of cruelty

 were held to be established by the family Court which were,

 however, reversed by the High Court. The Supreme Court held

 that since there was irretrievable breakdown of marriage, the

 family Court was justified in granting the decree of divorce and

 the High Court erred in reversing the same. A reference has also

 been made to the case of Satish Sitole v. Ganga (Smt ), (2008) 7

 SCC 734 in which case the husband had contended that there

 was irretrievable breakdown of marriage and technicalities of law

 should therefore not come in the way. The Supreme Court made

AMIT KAUNDAL efforts to break the deadlock between the parties but no solution 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -41- could be found. Both the parties had expressed their desire for

 dissolution of the marriage. They had remained separate for

 fourteen years out of sixteen years of marriage. The Supreme

 Court was convinced that any further attempt at reconciliation

 would be futile and it would be in the interest of both the parties

 to severe the matrimonial ties since the marriage had broken

 down irretrievably. Therefore, it is sought to be made out and contended

 that divorce can be granted where marriage had irretrievably

 broken down. It may, however, be noticed that in Durga

 Prasanna Tripathy 's case (Supra) the ground of cruelty was held

 to be established and the fact of irretrievable breakdown of

 marriage was taken as an additional factor which impelled the

 Supreme Court to allow the appeal and grant divorce. The

 irretrievable breakdown of marriage can be taken as an additional

 factor where other grounds for grant of matrimonial relief as

 provided by the statute are made out but not as an independent

 ground or where the grounds provided by the statute are not

 made out. In Satish Sitole 's case (Supra) the parties had

 themselves expressed their desire for grant of divorce and the

 Supreme Court in exercise of its plenary jurisdiction under Article

 142 of the Constitution had dissolved the marriage. Lastly learned Senior Counsel has referred to Vinita

 Saxena vs. Pankaj Pandit , (supra) which has been considered in

 the case of Kollam Chandra Sekhar v. Kollam Padma Latha , AMIT KAUNDAL (supra). I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh FAO No.M-91 of 2004 (O&M) -42- From the above said facts and circumstances, it is

 evident that the appellant has not been able to establish and

 prove his case of the respondent being of unsound mind or that

 she has been suffering continuously or intermittently from mental

 disorder of such a kind and to such an extent that he cannot

 reasonably be expected to live with her. As against this, the

 evidence produced by the respondent is cogent and convincing to

 dislodge the case of the appellant; besides, the Board of Doctors

 of the PGI, Chandigarh has conclusively held that there was no

 abnormality in the respondent. In the circumstances, there is no merit in the appeal

 and the same is accordingly dismissed. (S. S. SARON)
 JUDGE

 (NAVITA SINGH )
 16.01.2015 JUDGE
 A.Kaundal

 Note: Whether to be referred to the Reporter : Yes AMIT KAUNDAL 2015.02.06 14:15 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document chandigarh