1. This appeal has been filed against an order dated 17.10.2003, passed by District Judge, Kanpur Nagar in Original Suit No. 11 of 2003. Kothari Products v. R.K. Products, allowing application No. 5 (c) granting temporary injunction in favour of respondent restraining the appellant, its Proprietor/partners, officers, servants, dealers, stockist, heirs, representatives and all other person/persons on his behalf from using Trade Mark 'Kothari' and/or infringing the plaintiffs Trade Mark or passing off their goods of pan masala and any other goods of similar description as those of the respondent by manufacturing/selling/offering for sale, advertisement, directly or indirectly dealing with the said goods under the impugned Trade Mark Kothari and artistic monogram/logo entitled thereto as shown in Annexures-A and B forming part of the affidavit filed in support of application No. 5 (c) till disposal of the suit. 2. The briefly stated facts giving rise to the present appeal are that M/s. Kothari Products Limited-respondent filed a suit under the provisions of Sections 105 and 106 read with Section 27 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 praying for permanent injunction restraining the defendant from using the trade mark 'Kothari' and monogram entitled thereto. An application No. 5 (c) was moved under Order XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2, C.P.C . read with Section 151 , C.P.C. for the grant of temporary injunction against the appellant. It was supported with an affidavit. In the plaint, the respondent plaintiff pleaded that it was a Limited Liability Company incorporated under the Companies Act with authority to the Company Secretary to sign and verify the plaint on behalf of the respondent-plaintiff. It was contended in the plaint that the plaintiff company was manufacturer of pan masala, gutka in India and carrying on this business of sale of its product pan masala under the said trade mark pan parag and pan gutkha with specific description of Kothari Products in relation to pan masala as well as with artistic monograms/logo thereto having a special style and characteristics. The plaintiff asserted that in the year 1973. the plaintiff adopted the said trade mark with special mention of the word 'Kothari' which was registered under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act on 12.5.1986 in the name and style of pan parag gutka having its registration No. 453959 renewed lastly on 12.5.2000 and also got its trade mark registered in respect of pan masala and zarda on 2.5.1975 under the registration No. 305123 and copy righted its trade mark 'parag gutka' zarda mixed is also registered under the trade mark on 10.2.1984 under Registration No. 417443 under Clause 34 and in respect of sada pan ka masala its application is also pending registration vide Application No. 49434 under Clause 31 both duly renewed on 10.2.1998 for next seven years. The case of the plaintiff-respondent was that the right to use the above trade mark is its exclusive right and has been in its use from time to time and therefore, no other person has any right to use its above trade mark/Monogram/Logo. The plaintiff claimed to have incurred expenses to popularize its goods on the basis of the above trade mark which had earned goodwill but the appellant-defendant has started manufacturing pan parag at Kanpur using a similar and deceptive trade mark identical to that of the respondent writing the word 'Kothari' on similar size of wrappers colour scheme and logo with a view to cause infringement to its above trade mark, thereby, passing off its goods as goods of the respondent resulting in loss to its business. Therefore, the respondent had no option but to file the above suit as the appellant has no right to use the aforesaid trade mark for passing off its goods as the goods of the respondent. 3. Before the lower court, the appellant defendant filed its objection challenging the rights of the respondent plaintiff to claim the right of using the trade mark in question Le., 'Kothari'. It was pleaded by the defendant that the the word 'Kothari' is the surname of an indian community consisting of several lacs of persons spread not only in India but all over the world. Appellant defendant has denied to have caused any infringement in the trade mark of the plaintiff respondent. Further, contention from the side of the appellant defendant was that the consumers of their manufactured articles are mostly illiterate persons and they never go by the trade mark or brand name. The appellant defendant tried to explain the requirement of business in accordance with the provisions of the said Act. They pleaded that the firm of plaintiff respondent has wrongly sought to be registered as 'Kothari' as trade mark and has practiced fraud, deception, and misrepresentation by concealing correct facts in getting its registration. They challenged the maintainability of the suit and pleaded that there was no question of passing off the goods on their part. They denied to have caused any loss to the business of the plaintiff respondent. According to the appellant, their products had earned reputation in the market by earning name and goodwill, therefore, it was wrong to say that the appellant had any mala fide intention to use the trade mark of the plaintiff-respondent. In its turn the appellant defendant also prayed for an interim injunction by filing counter-claim to restrain the plaintiff respondent from using the trade mark 'Kothari' in respect of its product. 4. The learned trial court after hearing the parties, passed the impugned order allowing the application moved by the plaintiff respondent for the grant of temporary injunction and rejected the objection/ counter claim preferred by the appellant. Feeling aggrieved against this order, the present appeal has been filed. 5. We have heard learned counsel for both the parties at length and have gone through the material available on record. 6. The grievance of the respondent-plaintiff by filing the above suit before the lower court was that they were carrying on its business of manufacturing and sale of pan masala under the name and style of pan parag, pan parag gutka, pan parag mawa for the last 30 years and the name of the company Kothari is closely associated with its these products. It has also been averred from the side of the plaintiff-respondent that its above products had earned goodwill in the market and in February, 2003 it came to their knowledge that the defendant appellant was using deceptively similar trade mark to that of the respondent by using the brand name of its product with the word Kothari against its products and this was causing damage to the goodwill and business of the appellant respondent. Hence, they had to file the suit. The claim of the plaintiff-respondent was that they had applied before the Registrar, Trade Mark under the provisions of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act and the same was in process of registration of the above trade mark in their favour but in the meantime, the plaintiff defendant with a view to cause damage to the business and goodwill of the appellant-respondent, has deceptively adopted the trade mark 'Kothari' with a view to pass off its goods as the goods of the respondent. The contention raised from the side of the appellant defendant is that the respondent has no exclusive right to use the word Kothari for its product. According to them, the respondent is not the owner or proprietor of the said word 'Kothari' which is being used by the defendant for its product. They contended that the design colour get up and pouches with labels of products of the respondent are displayed in the market for sale and they have also earned goodwill for their above business. Hence, keeping in view the fact that they have preferred objection against the request of registration of the trade mark 'Kothari' applied for by the respondent, injunction should not have granted against it. It is further argued from the side of the appellant that normally the consumers of the products like pan masala gutka, etc. do not bother about the exact brand name and trade marks printed on the pouches, and therefore, the respondent has absolutely no justification to complain for the loss of business or goodwill. It is contended by the appellant-defendant that the other party has practiced fraud, deception and misrepresentation by adopting the word 'Kothari' for their products. They have taken the plea that they have their own goodwill in the market on account of their special quality of the products and on account of business rivalry, respondent plaintiff had filed the suit with a view to cause damage to the appellant. The appellant defendant had also prayed before the lower court for exclusive right to use the said trade mark for their business and claimed unauthorized interference and infringement of their trade mark by the respondent-plaintiff. There is no denial of the fact that the business of the plaintiff-respondent is going on for the above products of pan masala for the last about 30 years and the appellant defendant have started running this business much after the business of the plaintiff respondents had gained popularity of the business in the market. The word 'Kothari' the disputed trade mark is undoubtedly being used by the appellant defendant for its product for the last 30 years. In this connection in Parle Products (P.) Ltd. v. J. P. and Co. Mysore , AIR 1972 SC 1359, the Supreme Court on the question of infringement of trade mark has observed (vide para 7) : 7. In N.R. Dongre and Ors. v. Whirlpool Corporation and Anr. , (1996) 5 SCC 714, the Hon'ble Supreme Court while dealing with a matter like the present one has observed (vide para 8) : "An infringement action is available where there is violation of specific property right acquired under and recognized by the statute. In a passing-off action, however, the plaintiff's right is independent of such a statutory right to a trade mark and is against the conduct of the defendant which leads to or is intended or calculated to lead to deception. Passing off is said to be a species of unfair trade competition or of actionable unfair trading by which one person, through deception, attempts to obtain an economic benefit of the reputation which another has established for himself in a particular trade or business. The action is regarded as an action for deceit. The tort of passing-off involves a misrepresentation made by a trader to his prospective customers calculated to injure, as a reasonably foreseeable consequence, the business or goodwill of another which actually or probably, causes damages to the business or goods of the other trader............" 8. In Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah and Anr., (2002) 3 SCC 65, the Supreme Court has observed (vide para 7) : 9. Similar view has been taken in Mahendra and Mahendra Paper Mills Ltd. v. Mihindra and Mahindra Ltd. , (2002) 2 SCC 147, wherein it was observed (vide para 16) : 10. In Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. , AIR 1960 SC 142, the Supreme Court observed : 11. In Victory Transport Co. Pvt. Ltd., Ghaziabad v. District Judge, Ghaziabad and Ors. , AIR 1981 All 421, after considering the requirements for the grant of injunction in regard to a passing-off action, this Court has suggested the following tests : 12. In the light of above observations of the Supreme Court and this Court the tests laid down to determine the use of particular trade mark by the defendant is whether the act of the defendant is actually causing loss to the goodwill and business of the plaintiff or not. We have taken into consideration the fact that in the instant case the product being produced and sold by the appellant defendant under the trade mark 'Kothari' is certainly an imitation of the trade mark of the business of the respondent plaintiff. Since the plaintiff had been using this trade mark for the last 30 years and the appellant started using this trade mark subsequently, the plaintiff can be taken to have exclusive right over the above trade mark for which as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the plaintiff respondent, the matter of registration of the trade mark 'Kothari' in favour of the plaintiff is going on and in process. There is no denial of the fact from the side of the appellant that its products were not being sold in the trade name of 'Kothari'.' The ground on the basis of which the appellant has claimed its right to use the trade name 'Kothari' is not convincing. It is contended by the appellant that the word 'Kothari' is the name of an Indian community and therefore, the plaintiff respondent cannot claim its exclusive right for the use of the word 'Kothari'. In our opinion this argument is not tenable, is undoubtedly fallacious argument. 13. When we go through the provisions of Sections 27 , 105 and 106 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, we find that the respondent plaintiff had adopted this trade mark "Kothari" from the very initial stage of its business and had taken steps for registration of this trade before the Registrar of Trade Mark in accordance with law. Not only this, the respondent plaintiff has brought before the lower court sufficient material to show that the formalities of its registration have been observed and publication as required under Section 20(1) of the proviso of the said Act has been made. The copy of the publication had been filed before the lower court. The appellant defendant has not taken any such steps either to prevent the process of registration of the trade mark 'Kothari' in favour of the respondent-plaintiff or to claim the registration of the above trade mark in its own favour. There cannot be any denial of the fact that considering the 30 years running of business in the name of trade mark 'Kothari' in its product, the respondent plaintiff has certainly acquired goodwill of its business in the market. The right claimed by the respondent plaintiff, in respect of passing-off the goods of the defendant as that of the plaintiff has to be given weight because the use of the trade mark 'Kothari' by the appellant defendant is certainly going to create confusion in the minds of consumers so far as the product of the plaintiff-respondent are concerned. In view of above facts and circumstances the use of 'Kothari' by the appellant defendant is certainly illegal and dishonest. In view of the above discussions and considering the law propounded by the Supreme Court under the circumstances of this case, in our view, the trial court has committed no error in allowing the application moved for injunction on behalf of respondent plaintiff. Hence, in our view the present appeal has no force and accordingly, it is dismissed. 14. We pass no order as to costs.