Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the municipal corporation of Bengaluru, has proposed Aadhaar-based biometric attendance system for its officials to increase work hour compliance and attendance, reported Bangalore Mirror . According to the proposal, citizens will also be able to track municipality officials in real-time. The proposal comes just a few days after the Chairman of the administrative standing committee accused BBMP officials of working just 3-4 hours a day.

Municipal Corporation of Delhi is refusing admission to children who do not have an Aadhaar Card, according to multiple reports by Mirror Now and MirrowNowNews.com. In one instance, a child was refused admission even though the parents’ Aadhaar was available. In another, admission was denied because Aadhaar or the parents was not linked to their bank accounts. According to another report by FirstPost , a Delhi NGO claimed that it has identified more than 400 students who have been denied admission to state-run schools on the grounds of being unable to submit sufficient documents relating to their age, identity, address and bank accounts.

As per the guidelines followed by the Delhi government, students are required to submit their Aadhaar card, address proof and bank account. Further, to open a bank account and to apply for an Aadhaar card, an address proof is required. A child without address proof is unlikely to have an Aadhaar card or a bank account. The guideline is in direct contravention of the Right to Education Act, 2009, which mandates that admission to schools cannot be rejected on any grounds.

In July, an Uzbek national posing as an Indian was found on the streets of Bhubhaneshwar with an Aadhaar Card in her possession. A year later, her Aadhaar number still reflects as ‘valid’ on the UIDAI website, per HuffPost India . The foreign woman’s Aadhaar bears a fake name and address but has a genuine Aadhaar number — verified on the UIDAI website, and the Aadhaar-linked phone number was confirmed by the Bhubaneshwar police, and cross-checked with Asalina’s Facebook account which had the same phone number listed. There is no evidence of any action taken by the UIDAI to investigate as to how a foreign national with a false name and address was able to illegally obtain an Aadhaar number, to cancel the Aadhaar, or to determine if the case is part of a larger breach of Aadhaar’s enrolment processes.

The constitutional validity of Aadhaar is being considered in the Supreme Court presently. On May 10, a five-judge constitution bench of the SC led by CJI Dipa Misra reserved its judgement on a bunch of petitions challenging the Aadhaar, the judgment is now expected sometime this month.

Read the coverage of 37-day hearing by five-judge bench SC hearing on constitutional validity of Aadhaar here.

Read MediaNama’s updated list of Aadhaar leaks here.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event