World Satoshi Summit 2018 will bring 3500+ global stakeholders under a single roof to ideate and innovate around blockchain technology, and hence eliminate the information asymmetry in the space. The event will feature keynotes, workshops, smart contract sessions, networking meets, and more

Dates and venue

May 12 & May 13, 2018, at the JW Marriott, Aerocity, New Delhi

Vision Behind the Summit

Considering the huge financial disasters and scams plaguing our structured and so-called trusted financial systems we need to find an alternative route that is backed by technology that is not affected by human greed and corruption.

Such a revolutionary technology will not only make the system in developing countries corruption free but also highly efficient.

With this summit we plan to remove the information asymmetry in the blockchain space so that multiple parties and organisations are encouraged to explore and leverage blockchain use cases in their specific domains.

Why attend WSS 2018?

In the past, humanity has been reshaped by several industrial revolutions that forever changed the way humans lived and worked. After the inception of the internet about 30 years ago, it is now that we are witnessing the emergence of a groundbreaking technology which is brewing up another revolution – The Blockchain

You should attend the World Satoshi Summit 2018 if you want to be a part of the history in the emergent technological revolution.

Here’s what you can look forward to at the global conference of 3500+ attendees:

● Network with global stakeholders of the Blockchain and crypto community; meet potential clientele ● Cross paths with CEOs of leading global corporates, startups and PSUs ● Pitch to VCs, Angels, HNIs, IBs through the Nova-Stride initiative ; showcase your startup to the relevant audience ● Master crypto-trading skills by learning the tricks-of-the-trade at workshops by global traders ● Know how to integrate Blockchain for efficiency gains in your business and industry ● Learn the potential impact of Blockchain in government and public sector services ● Live airdrop of ICOs; opportunity to invest in startups with brilliant ideas ● Write your very first Smart Contract through live sessions from experienced Blockchain Developers ● Hear about women’s role in tech and contribute to the Women Economic Empowerment initiative

Key Organisers?

The World Satoshi Summit 2018 is conceptualised by, Harmeet Singh Monga and Rajesh Dhuddu . Pioneers in the industry, both play an active role in the South-Asian Blockchain and crypto community. Earlier, they partnered for the founding of the Indian subcontinent’s foremost Blockchain Special Interest Group under NASSCOM.

Harmeet is also the CBO at BlockSmiths , which enables businesses and governments with Blockchain Applications for businesses and PSUs. Rajesh is a TEDx Speaker and the SVP at Quatrro : a multinational company helping its clients adapt to latest technologies.

Who are the Keynote Speakers?

At the 2018 WSS, we are bringing together some of the most well-known Blockchain Influencers on the planet to give inspirational Keynotes on the role of the radical technology in rewiring the world economy in the capital of world’s largest democracy, New Delhi.

The list of expected Keynote Speakers include:

● Roger Ver CEO at Bitcoin.com, the Bitcoin Billionaire, Roger Ver started investing in the cryptocurrency at an early stage. He has invested in noteworthy startups like Blockchain.info, BitPay.com.

● Devie Mohan World’s top 10 Global FinTech influencers, Devie Mohan is the Founder of Turya, and Co-founder and CEO at Burnmark. The Indian-origin entrepreneur is a role model for women in the male-dominated finance industry.

● Richard Kastelein Richard Kastelein is an award-winning entrepreneur who founded the acclaimed industry news publication, Blockchain News. He regularly writes on the emergent technology for various publications such as the Harvard Business Review and Guardian.

● Ted Lin An alumni of Cornell University, Ted is the Head of International Markets at Binance and has been instrumental in growth of the platform which is now the world’s biggest exchange by market volume. Ted is stated to be an expert in Product Management and Marketing by several experts around the world.

● Leanne Kemp Having spent more than 20 years in the technology industry, Leanne is a veteran and is currently the Founder and CEO of a popular startup, EverLedger, which leverages the Blockchain technology to assist in the reduction of risk and fraud for banks, insurers and open marketplaces. An alumni of prestigious Harvard University, she is a regular speaker at events around the world on topics ranging from Blockchain to world trade.

● Kumar Gaurav The Founder and CEO at Cashaa, Kumar Gaurav is a serial entrepreneur who is counted among the top 100 most influential people on the globe. Interestingly, his venture Cashaa raised USD 18 million through its ICO in 2017.

● Sally Eaves Official Member of the Forbes Technology Council, Sally Eaves is a well-known thought leader who speaks on emergent technologies, social innovation, digital transformation, and more. One of the top Blockchain Influencers in the world, Sally, who strongly endorses women in Blockchain initiative, is also giving her support to WSS’s Women Economic Empowerment initiative.

● Ross Smith The Director of Engineering at Microsoft, Ross Smith, has over two decades of experience in software development. Ross, whose focus area is management innovation, is a regular speaker at worldwide technology events.

● Derin Cag Derin, the founder of media brand Richtopia and co-founder of Blockchain Age is an entrepreneur who believes in the role of emergent technologies. He is an influential speaker on areas such as Blockchain and cryptocurrencies, Fourth Industrial Revolution, IoT, etc.

Be a part of the Blockchain revolution, book your spot today at the biggest Blockchain conference in South Asia.

–

This is an advertisement and this content was produced by World Satoshi Summit. MediaNama’s Native Advertising policy and past ads are here . For advertising, contact [email protected] .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event