In a meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 21, the Council discussed simplifying KYC norms in the financial sector and measures to curb illegal loan apps, among other things.

Uniform KYC norms and inter-usability of records for the financial sector

The council discussed prescribing uniform know-your-customer (KYC) norms across the financial sector and the interoperability of KYC records. It also deliberated on the simplification and digitalization of the KYC process. Notably, the Central KYC Registry , a centralized repository of KYC records introduced by the government in 2016 for these very purposes, already exists. However, it remains unclear whether the government intends to update its policies regarding this registry to further streamline KYC norms or plans to introduce new measures altogether.

Despite the existence of the Central KYC Registry, the KYC process is far from seamless. Different types of financial entities still adhere to varying KYC norms, and inconsistencies can even be found among entities of the same kind, such as banks. Additionally, individuals often find themselves needing to undergo a fresh KYC procedure when applying for a new service or dealing with a new entity. Furthermore, the KYC process is not fully digitized, requiring physical presence or documents in certain cases. These complexities can prove burdensome for both financial entities and customers alike.

Failure to comply with KYC norms carries significant risks, as demonstrated by recent actions taken by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) against non-compliant financial entities. The central bank’s actions against Paytm, Visa , and Bank of Baroda are examples of the consequences of failing to adhere to KYC norms.

Moreover, the Central KYC Registry also has its own sets of flaws as pointed out in this post below:

Is nobody challenging the legality of CKYCR / Central KYC Registry?

Copies of **ALL** KYC data from across the country is being stored in a central location and everyone is being assigned yet another "Unique ID" without any consent.

cc: @internetfreedom @SFLCin pic.twitter.com/dInGPkkqTM

— mas.to / (@kingslyj) February 21, 2024

Against this backdrop, an overhaul of the KYC norms is much needed.

Measures to check the spread of unauthorised lending through online apps

The Council discussed measures to arrest the harmful effects of unauthorised lending through online apps. The government did not share what measures were discussed, but currently, predatory loan apps are aplenty on the Google Play Store and Apple App Store and actions taken by the central bank such as prescribing digital lending guidelines and preparing a whitelist of official apps, or the measures taken by Google, have all not had much of an effect in curbing illegal lending.

Other issues discussed

The FDSC also reportedly deliberated on:

The Council did not share any details of these discussions.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event