Evidence of P.W 4 has been criticized on the score that she had voluntarily

left with the appellant and allegation of forcible rape is a myth. Even if one

concedes to the argument of the appellant that the victim had not been forced to

sexual intercourse, ample evidence has come on record that the so-called consent,

if any, of the victim to the sexual intercourse was procured by the appellant and

other accused persons through blatant dishonesty. Appellant falsely proposed

marriage to her and as the victim was unwilling, he persisted and finally

compelled her to meet him at Kurseong on 02.07.2010. Thereafter, upon the

persuasion of co-accused Sangita Chhetri appellant took the victim to Siliguri and

on the assurance of marriage cohabited with her. Subsequently, appellant and

Sangita took the victim to a brothel at Pune where she was utilized for commercial 6 sex. Conduct of the appellant, therefore, leaves no doubt in one's mind that he

never intended to marry the victim and had set up a honey trap in collusion with

Sangita Chhetri to ensnare the victim and procure her for prostitution. Hence, I

have no doubt in my mind that sexual intercourse between the appellant and the

victim in the hotel was without her consent and falls within the definition of 'rape'

under section 375 IPC. Recovery of the victim from the brothel at Pune owned by

Jamuna Thapa has been wholly established not only through the evidence of the

police witnesses namely P.W 12, 13 and 14 but also the independent witness, P.W

15, Secretary of Kanchanjangha Uddar Kendra, Siliguri and other local witnesses

namely P.Ws 8, 9, 10 and 11. All of them had accompanied the police party to

Pune to recover the victim. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, conviction of the appellant is

upheld. Coming to the issue of sentence, I note the maximum sentence of life

imprisonment has been imposed upon him for committing the offence punishable

under section 376 IPC. Appellant does not appear to have any criminal

antecedent. In view of the facts and circumstances of the case and balancing the

aggravating and mitigating factors, I am of the opinion that maximum sentence

imposed on the appellant may be reduced to some extent. Accordingly, I direct that the appellant shall suffer rigorous imprisonment

for ten years and to pay fine of Rs. 2,000/-, in default, to suffer a further period of

rigorous imprisonment for six months more for committing the offence punishable

under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code. Sentences imposed upon him on the

score of committing offence under section 366 IPC and section 5 of Immoral Traffic

(Prevention) Act are upheld and all the sentences are to run concurrently. 7 The period of detention suffered by appellant during investigation, enquiry

and trial shall be set off from the substantive sentence imposed upon the

appellant in terms of Section 428 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. With the aforesaid modification as to sentence, the appeal is disposed of.

 Copy of the judgment along with Lower Court Records be sent down to the

trial court at once for necessary compliance. Urgent Photostat Certified copy of this order, if applied for, be supplied

expeditiously after complying with all necessary legal formalities. I agree.