The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has asked social media platforms and application hosting platforms (app stores) to take down content/applications that allow people to change their calling line identification (CLI).

CLI is the number that pops up on your screen when someone calls you, it helps you identify who the caller is. As per DoT’s advisory, an influencer used a social media platform to teach people how to change their CLI so that the called party sees some other number. “Technically this is tampering of telecommunication identification and called CLI spoofing,” it argues. DoT explains that changing CLI is tampering with telecommunication identification which is restricted under the Telecommunication Act, 2023 .

“Any application that allows to tamper telecom identifier (like CLI, IP address, IMEI etc.) is abetting users in committing an offence by contravening provisions of Telecommunication Act, 2023 and therefore Social media platforms and Application hosting platforms are required to remove such content / applications,” it specifies.

Social media platforms have to submit their compliance with DoT’s instructions by February 28.

Under Section 42(3) of the Telecommunication Act, 2023, anyone who tampers with telecommunication identifiers will be publishable with a term that may extend up to three years and with a fine that can extend up to Rs 50 lakh, or both.

Besides this, the DoT also cites provisions of the Telecommunication Act, 2023, that penalise obtaining subscriber identity modules or other telecommunication identification through fraud, cheating or impersonation. The authority says that besides the instruction to remove such content/ applications, it can also take action against entities that are making or promoting content/applications that aid people in committing offences under the Telecommunication Act, 2023.

Also read:

Note: A change was made in the text at 05:15 PM on February 19 pertaining to the spelling of the Telecommunication Act, 2023, to improve clarity .

The story was updated at 4:55 PM on Febaruary 20, 2025 to add comments from Rakesh Maheshwari, Former Sr. Director and Group Coordinator, MeitY.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event