Update published on 26/6/2023 at 11:05 am : Following meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amazon announced that it will be hiking its India investments to $26 billion by 2030, Tech Crunch reported . A majority of these funds will be allocated towards expanding Amazon Web Services in India. Amazon’s current India investments stand at $11 billion. Google also announced that it will open a “global fintech operation centre” in Gujarat’s GIFT city.

Productive meeting with Prime Minister @NarendraModi . Discussed Amazon’s commitment to invest $26B in India by 2030; working together we will support startups, create jobs, enable exports, and empower individuals and small businesses to compete globally. pic.twitter.com/yEgy0TVqpK

— Andy Jassy (@ajassy) June 23, 2023

Original story published on 23/6/2023 at 4:56 pm : “The United States and India recognize the potential of Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) approaches for enabling open and inclusive digital economies,” the White House announced amidst Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s five-day visit to the United States.

The announcement departs from recent rumours that developed nations like the US may not be biting into India’s G20 push for global adoption of DPI. As we’ve reported , despite India’s framing of DPI as a sustainable technology solution for the Global South, gaining global consensus for the movement may still very well require the support of established allies like the US.

The visit also saw US President Joe Biden and Modi commit to providing global leadership for DPI implementation, including partnerships on developing DPIs that protect privacy, data security, and intellectual property. The two leaders are also considering a Global Digital Development Partnership, where the technology and resources of both India and the US will be jointly deployed to enable DPI roll-outs in developing countries.

“In India, technology is not only about innovation but also about inclusion. Today, digital platforms are empowering the rights and dignity of people, while protecting privacy,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi informed the US Congress during the trip, only days after a massive data leak from the country’s COVID-19 vaccine platform CoWIN was discovered.

Why does this trip to the States matter? : The visit saw the two countries announce a slew of technology collaborations across semiconductors, space, defence, security, telecom, quantum computing, and much more. This isn’t a coincidence. “President Biden and Prime Minister Modi affirm that technology will play the defining role in deepening our partnership,” the White House clarified , signalling who India’s bedfellows may be as it seeks to establish itself as a global tech powerhouse this ‘ techade ‘. The other obvious elephant in the room: countering China, whether in tech or otherwise.

VIDEO | “Technology featured very prominently in the discussions (between PM Modi and US President Joe Biden), and not just technology in a single sub-domain, but technology cooperation across most of the ecosystem that pertains to it,” says Foreign Secretary Vinay Mohan Kwatra… pic.twitter.com/lHHsD0xilD

— Press Trust of India (@PTI_News) June 23, 2023

1. Big gains for India’s semiconductor push with MoU, $825 million Micron investment deal : Aside from signing an MoU on Semiconductor Supply Chain and Innovation Partnership, US-based chipmaker Micron announced that it will invest as much as $825 million in a government-supported semiconductor assembly and test facility in Gujarat . With combined investments valued at $2.75 billion, the White House added that it would create 5,000 direct jobs within five years, along with 15,000 “community jobs”.

#WATCH | Union Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar speaks on the PM’s invitation to American chip maker Micron Technology to boost semiconductor manufacturing in India. pic.twitter.com/IQMgbKKlvJ

— ANI (@ANI) June 23, 2023

Applied Materials also announced a $400 million investment across four years in a “collaborative engineering center” in Bengaluru . Lam Research has proposed training 60,000 Indian engineers to accelerate the country’s “semiconductor education and workforce development goals”.

2. Strong emphasis on use of tech by extremists, crypto lumped into security discussions too : The two leaders cautioned against the use of unmanned aerial vehicles, drones, and information and communication technologies for terror and committed to combating this use. Don’t forget: similar points were raised last year by India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar when the Delhi Declaration against the use of tech-facilitated terror was signed by members of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Counter-terrorism Committee.

Modi and Biden also “called upon the Financial Action Task Force to undertake further work identifying how to improve global implementation of its standards to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism”. Translation: crypto has often been cited as a prime vehicle for money laundering by hostile actors, whether in the United States’ recent national cybersecurity strategy or India’s G20 diplomacy planks.

3. Enhanced cybersecurity cooperation on the horizon? : The two leaders also pledged to cooperate on various cyber issues, including preventing and responding to threats, promoting cybersecurity awareness and education, and building resilient infrastructure. Both countries committed to information sharing on cyber threats and vulnerabilities, and to joint responses to cyber incidents.

Coming back to Digital Public Infrastructure—echoing the initial rationale for India’s flagship DPI Aadhaar, the recent US national cybersecurity strategy also batted for “enhanced digital identity solutions” to mitigate fraud and inefficiency, and enable secure access to government benefits. Whether DPI development will fall under future Indo-US cybersecurity discussions remains to be seen.

4. Joint international collaboration on developing trustworthy and responsible AI : These would include advancing AI education, promoting commercial opportunities, and mitigating AI-led bias and discrimination. Point to note: the United Kingdom, an Indo-US ally, is gunning to lead global responsible AI diplomacy. Whether the Indo-US responsible AI track will converge with the UK’s vision—or carve out a separate pathway embedded in similar values—remains to be seen.

5. Two telecom Joint Task Forces launched : The White House says these Task Forces will fulfil a global vision of “secure and trusted telecommunications , resilient supply chains, and enabling global digital inclusion”. In practice, that means they’ll focus on advanced technologies, including research on Open RAN (which allows for interoperability between cellular networks) and 5G and 6G technologies. Public-private cooperation between operators and vendors here will be facilitated by Bharat 6G Alliance (led by the Department of Telecommunications ) and the Next G Alliance (an initiative of the US-based Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions ). The U.S. International Development Finance Corporation is also financing Open RAN field trials and rollouts in both countries. The two countries also “endorsed an ambitious vision for 6G networks, including standards cooperation, facilitating access to chipsets for system development, and establishing joint research and development projects”. They also signalled the need for a bilateral framework on “Trusted Network/Trusted Sources”.

6. Indian companies to participate in US’ (anti-China) “Rip and Replace Program” : Also known as the Supply Chain Reimbursement Program, the 1.9 billion dollar initiative led by the US Federal Communications Commission reimburses advanced communications providers with less than 10 million customers for expenses incurred while removing, replacing, or disposing of communications gear from their networks. The catch: this gear should have been produced or provided by Huawei or ZTE before June 30, 2022.

As the New York Times puts it, this is the “starkest physical manifestation of the tech Cold War” between the US and China—the US has warned that Chinese companies’ communications gear could be used for espionage.

7. Replugging the importance of iCET : Back in January, the two countries announced the Initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology (iCET)— a strategic technology partnership enhancing Indo-US collaborations in advanced computing, artificial intelligence, autonomous systems and robotics, communication and networking technologies, financial technologies, quantum information technologies, and semiconductor technologies, among others.

“Technology will determine the security, prosperity and leadership in the Twenty First century. That is why our two countries established a new “Initiative for Critical and Emerging Technologies,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address to the US Congress.

During the talks, the two leaders called on governments, businesses, and academia to realise the partnership’s goals of developing an “open, accessible, and secure technology ecosystem”. The fine print here: while the partnership may not be driven by China’s geopolitical and tech might, top US officials certainly think that “Beijing’s aggressive military moves and economic practices have had ‘a profound impact on the thinking in Delhi’ and other capitals around the world”.

8. An ‘innovation handshake’ for Indian start-ups : Held under the Indo-US Commercial Dialogue , the ‘handshake’ hopes to “lift up and connect the two sides’ dynamic startup ecosystems, address specific regulatory hurdles to cooperation, and promote further innovation and job growth, particularly in emerging technologies”. It will also “identify new innovations and match them with industry requirements across the priority sectors identified under the iCET framework”.

9. Addressing export controls and improving bilateral tech commerce : The Indo-US Strategic Trade Dialogue launched this June has been directed to “address” export controls, explore enhancing high-tech commerce between the two countries, and facilitate technology transfers. In general, the two leaders committed to promoting regulations facilitating “greater technology sharing, co-development, and co-production opportunities” between India and the US. It’s also a key lever in advancing the strategic objectives of iCET.

10. Quantum computing ties deepen : A newly-established joint Indo-US Quantum Coordination Mechanism will facilitate work towards a Quantum Information Science and Technology agreement, as well as collaborations between industry, government, and academia. Now India will also join other quantum nations participating in the Quantum Entanglement Exchange and in the Quantum Economic Development Consortium .

Point to note: in a recent parliamentary response, the Indian government did not confirm whether it was developing quantum attack-proof computer systems. The details and deliverables of a national quantum mission announced in the 2020 Budget are also yet to be finalized.

The White House announced that the U.S.-India Science and Technology Endowment fund will back a $2 million grant for the joint development and commercialisation of AI and quantum technologies. The two leaders also supported public-private collaborations to develop high-performance computing facilities in India. Biden also promised to work with the US Congress to reduce export controls for quantum technologies and source code. The US will also support India’s Center for Development of Advanced Computing now that it will join the U.S. Accelerated Data Analytics and Computing Institute.

11. INDUS-X to facilitate joint defence tech collaborations : A network of start-ups, industry, think tanks, and universities will work under the newly-minted US-India Defence Acceleration Ecosystem (INDUS-X) to co-produce advanced defence technology. Some commentators think this is an attempt to wean India away from its infamous dependence on Russia for defence equipment and technology.

INDUS-X launched by @DefMinIndia & @DeptofDefense yields ambitious collaboration agenda including: “joint prize challenges for start-ups, roundtable events, mentor-protégé initiatives btwn major primes & start-ups, and the formation of a Sr. Advisory Group” https://t.co/vysf8NcDji pic.twitter.com/3Eun3seMNj

— Sameer P. Lalwani (@splalwani) June 22, 2023

12. 35 tech research collaborations signed : Funded by the US National Science Foundation (NSF) and India’s Department of Science and Technology, the collaborations will fund joint research into “cyber-physical” systems, computer and information science and engineering, and secure and trustworthy cyberspaces. India’s IT Ministry and the NSF will also fund joint research in semiconductors, cybersecurity, next-generation communications, intelligent transportation systems, and green technologies.

13. Biden and Modi call for health tech collaborations : The leaders sought expanded collaborations on “digital health platforms”, including integrating responsible AI into them.

14. Space tech collaborations also on the horizon : India recently released its Space Policy—Biden and Modi supported “enhanced commercial collaboration” between the two countries’ private sectors across the space economy’s value chain. They also called to address existing export controls and to facilitate technology transfers.

NASA and ISRO will also develop a strategic framework for “human spaceflight cooperation” by the year-end. 2024 will see the NISAR satellite—co-developed by NASA and ISRO—launch from India.

15. As important for Indian tech workers—visas : The two countries noted the need to expedite the processing of visa applications. Officials have been directed to identify “additional mechanisms” facilitating travel for business, professional, and technical exchanges between India and the US. More importantly, for those struggling with visa renewals amidst widespread tech layoffs:

“The U.S. Department of State will launch a pilot this year to adjudicate domestic renewals of certain petition-based temporary work visas, including for Indian nationals, who will no longer be required to leave the country for renewal in eligible categories.  The Department of State will implement this for an expanded pool of H1B and L visa holders in 2024, with the aim of broadening the program to include other eligible categories.”

Featured image courtesy of the Press Information Bureau .

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event