?If There’s One Story To Read Today

The growing menace of spam in India is no secret given that two out of every three people receive at least one spam call every day. The situation is really quite grim as most people are so inundated with spam that they have become inured to it. But the regulators continue to be engaged in finding ways to curb it.

A meeting was held on February 17 between India’s telecom regulator TRAI and the telecommunication companies, following which the regulator said that telcos have to block all unauthorised telemarketers from using their networks. It has also called for telcos to re-verify all templates for headers and messages to see if telemarketing entities are not using lookalike templates to evade the spam filtering mechanism.

The regulatory body has been busy lately in trying to ascertain ways to curb spam. It is planning to come up with its own Truecaller-like measure so people know the identity of who is calling them. It remains to be seen how effective these measures will be. [ Read , 3 minutes ]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

MediaNama is holding a discussion on “Internet Regulation, Convergence and TRAI” in Delhi on February 24 . We’ll also discuss issues related to Same Service Same Rules, Quality of service requirements for online services, competition concerns highlighted by the TRAI, and definition of telecommunication services.

MediaNama subscribers can attend this event virtually too!

Click here to know more. Register now!

PLATFORM REGULATION

Taking AI rural: Wherever Satya Nadella goes, he seems to be talking about this one demo he saw during his visit to India. A “profound” experience, a “mic-drop moment,” “the world I’ve dreamt of being in”: these are some of the ways the Microsoft CEO described his experience of the demo. The demo involves Bhashini, a translation bot made by India’s IT Ministry, but what is this bot, why was it made, what can it be used for: we answer all this and more in our explainer. [ Read ?, 4 minutes ]

Tech giants receive angry mail : In an ongoing inquiry that aims to scrutinize if the communication between the Biden administration and the big tech and social media companies led to censorship of views running counter to White House policy, the House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Jordan has sent subpoenas to the chiefs of Meta, Alphabet, Microsoft, Apple, and Amazon. Twitter not only escaped receiving the angry letter, Mr. Jordan (a Republican Party member) even encouraged the tech companies to follow its lead in such matters. [ Read , 5 minutes ]

DIGITAL PAYMENTS/FINTECH AND LENDING

Let’s get the debt rolling: You can now use your HDFC RuPay credit card with UPI, meaning you are no longer bound by the limits of your bank account when using UPI. A few public sector banks already support RuPay credit cards on UPI, but HDFC is the first private bank to do so. Sounds convenient, but don’t let the convenience make you take on more debt than you can handle. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

? Tech Policy from Around the World

Google, Twitter, Meta, Apple face tougher EU online content rules [ Read ] (Foo Yun Chee/ Reuters)

Bing’s AI Chatbot: ‘I want to be alive. ?’ [ Read ] (Kevin Roose/ The New York Times)

Exclusive: Crypto giant Binance moved $400 million from U.S. partner to firm managed by CEO Zhao [ Read ] (Angus Berwick and Tom Wilson/ Reuters)

Musk Shuts Two of Three Twitter India Offices, Sends Staff Home [ Read ] (Sankalp Phartiyal/ Bloomberg)

Forget Milk and Eggs: Supermarkets Are Having a Fire Sale on Data About You [ Read ] (Jon Keegan/ The Markup)

Bitcoin’s Future Depends on a Handful of Mysterious Coders [ Read ] (​​Paul Kiernan/ The Wall Street Journal)

OpenAI Proposes Government Restrict AI Chips to Prevent Propaganda Explosion [ Read ] (Chloe Xiang/ Vice)

NFTs could give Bitcoin a face-lift as it increases its blockchain demand [ Read ] (Jacquelyn Melinek/ TechCrunch)

Ransomware attackers finding new ways to weaponize old vulnerabilities [ Read ] (Louis Columbus/ VentureBeat)

TikTok Commits to Two New Data Centers in Europe [ Read ] (Stu Woo/ The Wall Street Journal)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event