SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: "New Scam in the market"
DATE: 2020-05-31
SCORE: 37
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/gu0vgg/new_scam_in_the_market/

--- POST TEXT ---

**"Do not post your phone number in any social media sites"**

Airtel had closed my case without providing a resolution. I tweeted them the screenshot of that closure message and my cardinal sin was that I overlooked the fact that, that message contained my phone number.

Immediately I got a call from 9330284713 claiming to be from airtel. He gave me another number 9223011112 and claimed that it is a number associated with my Airtel Customer ID.He forwarded me a code saying that it is airtel settings and asked me forward it to that second number.

Since it did look like a usual airtel message, I forwarded that code.

He then asked me to download "TeamViewer" app. This sent emergency lights and sirens blaring throughout my head because TeamViewer is an app that provides remote access to a destination system. I screwed him, threatened him with action and he disconnected the call.

But the damage was done. He had withdrawn 5k. The code that he had sent was apparently a UPI pin. It looked like this: abupi XXXXXXXX@XXXXXXXX\*XXXXXXXXXX

I started getting messages from Andhra Bank saying that my salary account was now tagged to their UPI. I immediately called Andhra Bank and they recognized the fraud. They suggested that I call my salary bank acc and report it asap.

I called my Salary acc bank and they instantly deactivated my cards, online banking and UPI ID thereby limiting the damage.

I have been receiving OTPs from 100s of websites from an hour. I can't even imagine what would be the situation if I had downloaded Teamviewer. He has opened my account in Yes Bank now.

I have lodged a cyber complaint on [cybercrime.gov.in](https://cybercrime.gov.in/)

I am also getting messages from multiple banks like this: "Dear User, You have initiated the process of adding your YES BANK account in your UPI App. Report it to us in case it is not you. Never share card details/OTP."

Please advise what I should do. How can I unlink my mob number from all these places. Now that he has that UPI pin thing, would he cause any further damage after I get my account reactivated?

Edit 1: Spoke to Airtel about my number being added to every bank. They asked me to deactivate my number and get a new sim. I asked how that would make a difference since the number would be the same. They said that wouldn't be the case since all the settings associated with the number would be reset. What do you guys think about this?

IMPORTANT EDIT: The reason why I am saying that the code he sent looked like usual Airtel settings message is BECAUSE back in April, I was working with Airtel on another issue of theirs. Even that was going on on Twitter. On the day I first tweeted them, I got a similar message: "AIRUPI xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx". During then, I had not posted my number anywhere else other than on Airtel's message inbox because they specifically ask you to DM your number to speak to you. Do you think there could be something fishy related to Airtel?

Most Important Edit: using that UPI PIN and my phone number, would he be able to clone my sim? Asking because I had posted this same post on Facebook. It has gotten deleted just a few minutes back.