Requiring social media platforms to moderate and filter content could threaten online speech, a US Federal court judge has ruled, according to a report by the Verge. The judge made this statement in a case by tech industry groups NetChoice and the Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA)—which include Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, Snapchat, and X as their members—against the Securing Children Online Through Parental Empowerment (SCOPE) Act .

The Act (also called H18) says that platforms must prevent minors’ exposure to content that “promotes, glorifies, or facilitates suicide, self-harm, eating disorders, substance abuse, stalking, bullying, harassment, grooming, trafficking, child pornography, or other sexual exploitation or abuse.” It also requires platforms to verify their users’ age and provide parents with parental control tools to enable them to monitor their children’s activities online. Further, any digital service that knowingly publishes/distributes harmful or obscene content must use a commercially reasonable method to verify that users seeking access are over 18 years old.

The US judge has put an injunction on the Act’s content monitoring and filtering requirements, while other aspects, like age verification, remain in force. He argued that the law would impose content moderation on social media platforms, while traditional media could continue to discuss the same topics without such restrictions. “In its attempt to block children from accessing harmful content, Texas also prohibits minors from participating in the democratic exchange of views online,” he said, adding that even if a teenager was banned from accessing certain content on the internet, they could still continue accessing it through traditional media like books.

In the case filed against the Act , NetChoice and CCIA argue that the law would make it harder for minors to access social media platforms. They also noted that the law excludes websites that provide a user with access to news, sports, and commerce and do not allow interaction at all. The organizations said that minors could continue to access content expressly prohibited under the Act on unregulated websites.

The two further called out the law for blocking minors’ access to information. They argued that both blocking access to information and the government mandate requiring websites to collect personal information for age and family relationship verification violate the First Amendment. NetChoice and CCIA had previously filed a case against another Texas social media law known as HB 20 which sought to restrict social media platforms from censoring and banning users based on their “views.” In this case, the Supreme Court had ruled in favor of the two organizations stating that the First Amendment protects a platform’s editorial decisions.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event