SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A kid I know got admitted to SOL DU, somehow an Institute in his area got this information along with his number.
DATE: 2020-12-19
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/kgbmik/a_kid_i_know_got_admitted_to_sol_du_somehow_an/

--- POST TEXT ---

SOL- School Of Open Learning | DU- Delhi University

The title states the main thing I want an explanation or theory on.

This kid has never gone to this institution but somehow they call him on his number and also know about his admission. The institute basically wanted him to do a course while pursuing the open learning degree. I know about this Institute and know that they are not scammer but how the heck did they get the information.

HOW DOES THIS HAPPEN? There is clearly information being leaked which brings me into the picture because the kid is my maids son and I paid his fee from my own personal bank account.

I had to give SOL my bank account information. I was reluctant but the kid came in on the last day with a maybe 4 hours left.

I have previously done courses through IGNOU in the past, they have a significantly superior website. They accept credit cards and do not require you to input bank details or scans of cancelled cheques.

I am beyond uncomfortable with this. There are so many points of data breach possible, it is giving me anxiety just thinking about that.

I always take all precautions when it comes to banks and money. If it was my own admission, I would have never input the required information. I also learned the information is being verified by humans i.e. they get to see and do whatever with the user information although I do not know how true that is.

I found that out from a conversation about something else with a person whose designation in SOL was secretary of something, he spoke like a peon. Didn't seem like an educated chap. The number was listed on a list available on SOL website.

Biggest point of failure are the people working there, nowadays integrity is not a real thing in India and people will kill someone if they were paid enough to do it.

I have moved all my money to an alternate account keeping the MAB. This is freaking ridiculous and terrifying.