Chennai Outer Commissionerate
Newry Towers, No.2054, I Block,
II Avenue, 12th Main Road,
Anna Nagar, Chennai-600 040. WITH

 Service Tax Appeal No.40037 of 2016
 (Arising out of Order-in-Original No.06/2015 ST dated 28.08.2015 passed by
 the Commissioner of CGST & Central Excise, Chennai - III)

M/s. Renault Nissan Technology
& Business Centre India Pvt. Ltd., .... Appellant
TP2/1, Ascendas IT Park,
Mahindra World City,
Tamil Nadu - 603 002. VERSUS

Commissioner of CGST & Central Excise ...Respondent
Chennai Outer Commissionerate
Newry Towers, No.2054, I Block,
II Avenue, 12th Main Road,
Anna Nagar, Chennai-600 040. AND

 Service Tax Appeal No.40906 of 2017
(Arising out of Order-in-Original No.08/2016 ST dated 30.12.2016 passed by the
 Commissioner of CGST & Central Excise, Chennai III)

Commissioner of GST & Central Excise ... Appellant
Chennai Outer Commissionerate
Newry Towers, No.2054, I Block,
II Avenue, 12th Main Road,
Anna Nagar, Chennai-600 040. Versus

M/s. Renault Nissan Technology 2 & Business Centre India Pvt. Ltd., ...Respondent
TP2/1, Ascendas IT Park,
Mahindra World City,
Tamil Nadu - 603 002. APPEARANCE : RNTBCI is primarily a support center for its group entities outside
 India, providing engineering, IT, IT-enabled, back office and
 business process outsourcing services. RNTBCI is registered with the
 service tax department under categories of Management or Business
 Consultant Service, Market Research Agency Service, Business
 Support Service, Information Technology Software Service and
 Technical Testing and Analysis Service. 3. During audit conducted by the Department, it was noticed that
 RNTBCI incurred expenditure in foreign currency towards social
 security charges, relocation reimbursements etc by way of
 remittances to parent company viz., M/s. Renault Global
 Management, SA, Geneva (referred to as M/s. Renault) and M/s.
 Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., Japan (referred to as M/s. Nissan) during the
 financial years from 2008-09 to 2012-13. The payments are
 reflected in the profit and loss account and the balance sheets of
 RNTBCI for the respective years. 4. Scrutiny of records revealed that RNTBCI, while providing services
 to the parent companies, also entered into contract with them for
 importing services from abroad. Pursuant to such contracts, the
 employees of both M/s. Renault and M/s. Nissan were sent to India
 on international transfer basis for specified durations. RNTBCI, apart
 from salaries of these employees, made periodical payments to the
 parent companies under the head reimbursement of expenses of the
 social security charges, relocation, administrative fees, STA utility
 expenses, training etc. On scrutiny of the international transfer
 agreement dated 01.10.2008, entered into between M/s. Nissan and
 M/s. Renault with RNTBCI, it was noticed that the employees
 continued to be in the payroll of the parent company and the
 employers contribution for the social security charges are made by
 the parent companies to the Government of France and Japan, which
 were subsequently reimbursed by RNTBCI. The services of the 4 employees of both M/s Renault and M/s. Nissan sent to India are
 used in the research activities of RNTBCI. 5. The Department was of the view that the above said services
 received by the appellant from its group companies would be covered
 under the definition of manpower services / 'Services' and the
 appellant is liable to pay service tax on these foreign currency
 payments made to the parent companies by RNTBCI, towards supply
 of manpower under reverse charge mechanism in terms of provisions
 of the Finance Act 1994 read with Service tax Rules, 1994 and
 notification No.30/2012-ST dated 20-06-2012. The Department also
 observed that during the year 2012-13, RNTBCI had paid
 renumeration to Directors and took a view that in terms of Rule
 2(1)(d)(i)(EE) of Service Tax Rules inserted w.e.f 07-08-2012 read
 with para 1(A)(iva) of Notification No.30/2012-ST dated 20-06-2012
 as amended by Notfn. No.45/2012-ST dated 07-08-2012, RNTBCI is
 required to pay service tax for services of Directors received by
 RNTBCI. 6. The Department therefore issued a show cause notice No.01/2014
 dated 17-01-2014 for the period 2008-09 to 2012-13 invoking
 extended period of limitation, a Statement of Demand (SOD) No.
 04/2015 dated 17-04-2015 for the period 2013-14 and another SOD
 No.13/2016-ST dated 04.04.2016 for the period 2014-15, calling
 upon RNTBCI to pay service tax for the import of supply of manpower
 services from its group companies located abroad as well as the
 renumeration paid to the Directors as more particularly specified
 therein. RNTBCI filed replies refuting the allegations and contesting
 the demands, pursuant to which, after due process of law, the
 respective adjudicating authorities issued orders in original. In two
 orders in original, for the period of 2008-09 to 2012-13 and for the
 period 2013-14, the adjudicating authority confirmed the demands
 alongwith applicable interest and also imposed penalties as specified
 therein. However, the adjudicating authority who adjudicated the
 SOD for the period 2014-15, dropped the proceedings initiated.
 Aggrieved, by the impugned orders in original, RNTBCI as well as the
 Department, having preferred appeals as detailed above, are before
 this Tribunal. 7. Shri. Sivarajan, Ld. Consultant, appearing for the appellant made
 elaborate arguments which were encapsulated as written
 submissions in which, as regards the demand confirmed under
 manpower recruitment or supply agency services, it was contended
 as below. 7.1 The adjudicating authority confirmed the demand without
 appreciating the three agreements that are relevant, in the proper
 perspective. 7.2 The contract of mandate dated 01-10-2008 entered into between
 RNTBCI and M/s. Renault had pertinent clauses to note, namely, the
 preamble which stipulated that RNTBCI is the employer of the expats
 and shall be responsible for continuing contributing to the social
 security and other benefits of the expats; Article 2.1 , which
 stipulated that M/s. Renault shall pay the Home Country
 contributions (mandatory and non-vested) on behalf of RNTBCI and
 get it reimbursed by the latter and Article 3 , which stipulated that
 M/s. Renault shall recover by raising monthly debit notes all
 contributions paid on behalf of RNTBCI and operating fees at 2.5%
 on the previously mentioned payments. 7.3 The contract between M/s. Renault/M/s. Nissan and the seconded
 expats, namely the International Transfer Agreement (ITA), typically
 outlines the assignment period with RNTBCI, scope of duty to be
 carried out, compensation details including perquisites etc.
7.4 The employment contract between RNTBCI and the seconded expats
 typically outlines the period of employment, details of workplace,
 scope of duty to be carried out, compensation details including
 perquisites, governing rules and regulations (that of India), etc.,
7.5 That the terms of these contracts makes it amply clear that the
 employment of the expats with M/s. Renault/M/s. Nissan ceases and
 the expats become the employees of RNTBCI during the transfer
 period in India and they work under the control of RNTBCI as their
 employees. 7.6 The OIO has erred in the conclusion that the employees continue to
 be employees of the parent company based on the employees being
 automatically reinstated into the parent company at the end of the
 international transfer and RNTBCI agreeing to abide by the terms of
 the employment contract as agreed by the group company and that
 the employees are paid daily allowance all of which in fact 6 demonstrates that these employees are not employees of the Group
 company during the period of employment in India.
7.7 That the observations made by the commissioner that the payments
 made towards social security and other charges is the obligation of
 the Foreign Company and not of RNTBCI is completely baseless as
 these are actually paid on behalf of RNTBCI. RNTBCI relies on article
 4 and article 6.1 of ITA and clause 4 of the employment agreement
 between RNTBCI and the expats in this regard. 7.8 That the payment made by RNTBCI to the group companies
 represent only reimbursement of expenses on actual basis and hence
 not includable in the value of taxable services under section 67 of
 the Finance Act, 1994. 7.9 Reliance is placed on the decisions in UOI v Intercontinental
 Consultants &Technocrats (P) Ltd , [2018] 91 taxmann.com 67 (SC),
 Hindustan Construction Company Ltd v CCE & ST, Navi Mumbai,
 (2025) 27 Centax 299 (Tri-Mum), CGST v Hindustan Construction
 Company, (2025) 27 Centax 300 (SC), Chaque Jour Outsourcing
 Solutions Pvt Ltd, (2025) 26 Centax 391 (Tri-Del), Dependable
 Security Bureau, 2024 (12)TMI 13-CESTAT Chennai, Rane Holdings
 Limited, 2025 (5) TMI 407- CESTAT Chennai, Sundaram Asset
 Management Co. Ltd, 2024 (9) TMI 842-CESTAT Chennai, and
 Bangalore International Airport, 2024 (7) TMI 1600- CESTAT
 Bangalore. 7.10 That the transaction of employer-employee is outside the purview of
 service tax. Reliance is placed on the decisions in Volkswagen India
 Pvt Ltd v. CCE , 2014 (34) S.T.R. 135 (Tri. - Mumbai), Commissioner
 v. Volkswagen India Pvt Ltd , 2016 ( 42) S.T.R. J145 (S.C.),Nissin
 Brake India Pvt. Ltd. v. CCE , 2019 (24) G.S.T.L. 563 (Tri. - Del.,
 Commissioner v. Nissin Brake India Pvt. Ltd., 2019 (24) GSTL J171
 (S.C.),CCE v. Computer Sciences Corporation India Pvt. Ltd, 2014
 (35) S.T.R. 94 (Tri. - Del. ), ,CCE v. Computer Sciences Corporation
 India Pvt. Ltd , 2015 (37) S.T.R. 62 (All), CST v Arvind Mills Ltd, 2014
 (35)STR 496 (Guj), Krohne Marshal Pvt Ltd v CCE, Pune I, 2015 (10)
 TMI 2459-CESTAT Mumbai, affirmed by Hon'ble SC in 2016(44) STR
 J 153 (SC), and Spirax Marshal P Ltd v CCE, Pune-I, 2016 (44) STR
 310 (Tri-Mumbai), affirmed by Hon'ble SC in 2016 (44)STR
 J153(SC). 7.11 That the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
 Northern Operating Systems is distinguishable from the present facts 7 in that on transfer the seconded employee becomes the employee of
 RNTBCI to whom the salary is paid in Indian Rupees and further the
 social security charges and other expenses paid by the overseas
 entity were reimbursed by RNTBCI. 8. The Ld. Consultant further submitted that the renumeration paid to
 Directors has been confirmed in the impugned OIOs overlooking the
 existence of employer-employee relationship between the Director
 and RNTBCI pursuant to their employment contract. That these
 directors were key managerial personnel as defined in Section 2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013 and were also disclosed as key
 managerial persons in the financial statements. That their
 renumeration was nothing but salary as evidenced by their Form 16
 and TDS under Section 192 of the IT Act. Reliance was placed on the
 decisions in Ram Prashad v. CIT ,1972 (4) TMI 1 - SUPREME COURT,
 CIT v. BP. Dalmia, 1993 (1) TMI 2 - CALCUTTA HIGH COURT, Dixcy
 Textiles Pvt Ltd v. CCE & ST, 2025 (5) TMI 316 - CESTAT CHENNAI,
 Sulphur Mills Limited v. CCE & ST, 2024 (9) TMI 1549 - CESTAT
 AHMEDABAD, Bengal Beverages Pvt. Ltd. v. CGST & CE, 2020 (11)
 TMI 622 - CESTAT KOLKATA, and Ratnamani Metals and Tubes Ltd.
 v. CCE & ST , 2024 (3) TMI 10 - CESTAT AHMEDABAD. 9. The Ld. Consultant submitted, without prejudice to the other
 grounds taken, that RNTBCI carries on business from premises
 registered as SEZ Unit and are carrying out authorised operations
 from such premises. That the impugned manpower supply service
 allegedly received by RNTBCI were utilized only and exclusively for
 the purpose of authorised operations of the SEZ units. The
 seconded employees or Expats worked only for the assignments or
 projects which are part of authorised operations of the SEZ unit
 especially in R & D and engineering activities and which fact is
 undisputed in the appeal. Therefore RNTBCI is eligible for the
 exemption from the payment of service tax by application of SEZ
 law and the relevant exemption notifications issued under Finance
 Act, 1994 . 9.1 That the adjudicating authority in Para 23 and 24 of OIO 06/2015
 dt 28 Aug 2015, relating to Appeal ST/40037/2016 for FY 2013-14,
 agrees to the fact that RNTBCI would be eligible for exemption from
 service tax under the respective notifications issued u/s 93 of the 8 Finance Act 1994, when the services are used exclusively for
 authorized operations. The difference in views only comes from the
 fact that the adjudicating authority considers only the export
 turnover of the SEZ as authorized operation which is not tenable
 under the law. Ld. Consultant submits that from the definition of
 Authorised operations under Section 2(c) , Section 4(2) , and Section
 15(9) of the SEZ Act and from the copies of LOA attached, it can
 be seen that the authorized operations are not restricted to services
 rendered outside India or income of the SEZ Unit generated from
 outside India. There are no differences between export of services
 or services rendered to Indian customers to qualify as "authorized
 operations." From the combined reading of Section 30 of SEZ Act
 and Rule 47 of SEZ Rules, it can be appreciated that the SEZ unit
 are allowed to sell their services to DTA subject to certain
 conditions. That when RNTBCI transacted with the customers in
 DTA within the parameters allowed by SEZ law and compliance with
 the conditions specified in such rules for DTA transactions is neither
 contested nor subject matter of the appeal, then it can be concluded
 that the SEZ law and the LOA of RNTBCI allows RNTBCI to render
 their services to the DTA units as part of the authorised operations
 and such activities are not restricted for exemption. Reliance is
 placed on the decision in Viram Solar P Ltd v Commissioner of CGST
 & Central Excise, Kolkata North, 2019 (6) TMI 517- CESTAT Kolkata
 wherein para 6.6 and 6.7 clearly brings out that the turnover of the
 SEZ unit including its sales in DTA units are part of authorised
 operations and concluded in para 6.14 that sales to DTA customers
 also form part of turnover of SEZ unit and hence qualify for
 exemption. 9.2 That in the OIO 08/2016 in favour of the appellant the adjudicating
 authority has found that the development commissioner has
 approved a list of services for RNTBCI to receive under exemption
 which included the impugned service of manpower supply and
 furthermore there is no allegation in the SCN regarding on usage
 of the impugned service for authorised operations. Hence RNTBCI
 is eligible for the exemption through notification No.12/2013-ST.
9.3 That without prejudice to the above submissions, Ld. Consultant
 further submits that RNTBCI is eligible for upfront and complete
 exemption from service tax for the services received for the
 authorised operations of the SEZ unit even without any reference 9 to the above mentioned notifications issued under section 93 of the
 Finance Act, 1994 and irrespective of the conditions of the
 notifications issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994.
9.4 It is submitted that being a SEZ unit, the services received by
 RNTBCI is exempt as per Section 26(1) of the SEZ Act subject to
 the conditions prescribed under Section 26(2) of the SEZ Act.
 Conditions as referred to in Section 26(2) of the SEZ Act is limited
 only to the conditions spelt out in SEZ law and nothing else, as can
 be seen from Section 2(w) of the SEZ Act which defines the word
 "prescribed" means to the prescriptions in the rules made by the
 Central Government under the SEZ Act . The conditions prescribed
 for such exemptions are handled in Rule 22 and 31 of the SEZ Rules
 which do not contain any restrictions regarding the turnover of the
 SEZ Unit to DTA customers. The Ld. Consultant submits that Rule
 22 of the SEZ Rules only specifies about execution and maintenance
 of Bond cum letter of undertaking, proper accounting of the goods
 or services received by the SEZ unit, submission of quarterly and
 annual statements regarding the operations and usage of inward
 goods and services etc. Compliance with such conditions is not in
 dispute here. Further, Rule 31 of the SEZ Rules also gives
 exemption from service tax, for the services received by a SEZ unit
 for the authorised operations in a SEZ without any other condition
 attached to it. Thus, the conditions specified under the above
 mentioned notifications issued u/s 93 of the Finance Act, 1994 do
 not find any support from the conditions specified under the SEZ
 law, except for the proper accounting and usage of the services for
 the authorised operations of the SEZ unit, which are satisfied by
 RNTBCI. If any other conditions emanating from the notifications
 issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act 1994 are inconsistent
 with the conditions specified under the SEZ law especially Section
 26 of SEZ Act and Rule 22 and 31 of SEZ Rules. In that respect, Section 51 of the SEZ allows SEZ law to have overriding effect over
 all other laws to the extent of inconsistencies of the other law when
 compared with the SEZ laws. Ld. Consultant further submits that
 the exemption allowed under SEZ law being a special law and the SEZ Act and rules being the law later in point of time, prevails over
 the exemption allowed under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994,
 being the generic law. 9.5 Ld. Consultant has further submitted that the notifications dated 01
 March 2011, 20th June 2012, and 01 July 2013 issued under the Finance Act, 1994 in so far as they relate to Special Economic Zone,
 are set aside in the case of GMR Aerospace Engineering Ltd v UOI ,
 by Hon'ble High Court of Telengana and Andhra Pradesh as such
 notifications are inconsistent with the SEZ law and such decision
 has been upheld by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Similar view has
 also been taken by the Hon'ble tribunal in various decisions
 subsequently relying on the aforecited High Court decision. Reliance
 is placed on the decisions in Tata Consultancy Services Ltd - 2013
 (29) STR 393, GMR Aerospace Engineering Limited v. UOI, 2019-
 VIL-489-TEL as affirmed in UOI v. GMR Aerospace Engineering
 Limited & Ors.,2019-VIL-231-SC-ST, Eclerx Services Ltd. v.
 Commissioner (2023) 4 Centax 89 (Tri. - Mum.) as Affirmed by
 Hon'ble Apex court in (2023) 4 Centax 96 (S.C.), ATC Tyres P Ltd
 v. CCGST & CE, 2021-VIL-106-CESTAT-CHE-ST, Cognizant
 Technology Solutions India P Ltd v. CCE & ST, 2021-VIL-533-
 CESTAT-CHE-ST, M/s. TVS Logistics Services Ltd Vs The Principal
 Commissioner of Service Tax, Chennai South Commissionerate,
 Chennai - 2021-VIL-186-CESTAT-CHE-ST, and M/s Wabco India Ltd
 Vs Commissioner of GST & CE, Chennai - 2021-VIL-263-CESTAT-
 CHE-ST 10. Ld. Consultant further submitted that for the period 2008-09 to
 2012-13, in respect of the issue relating to manpower supply
 services, the extended period of limitation could not have been
 invoked as the issue was debatable involving multiple and complex
 interpretation of provisions, contracts etc and with many rulings in
 favour of the taxpayer holding that the secondment of employees
 from foreign entities to Indi are not taxable including the decision of
 the Tribunal in the case of northern operating systems and therefore
 due to the bonafide belief of the appellant that there was no liability
 to tax, the extended period of limitation was not invokable. That
 even in the appellant's own case the adjudicating authority has held
 in the appellant's favour in the OIO 08/2016 dated 30-12-2016 and
 thus the issue is clearly an interpretative one. That the Department
 is aware about the activities of RNTBCI because the Central Excise
 officers of the same Commissionerate, (Chennai) had already
 conducted an Excise and Service Tax audit for the period up to March 11 2011 and had scrutinized all the import transactions undertaken by
 the Appellant and did not make any observation in this regard in the
 letter C. No. III/10/271/2011-IA dated 20 December 2011.Reliance
 was placed on the decisions in CCE v. Northern Operating Systems,
 2022 (5) TMI 967 - SUPREME COURT, International Seaport
 Dredging Ltd v. CCGST & CE, (2024) 21 Centax 469 (Tri.-Mad),
 Nirlon Limited v. CCE, 2015 ( 320) ELT 22 (SC), Hyundai Motor India
 P Ltd. v. CCE & ST , 2019 (6) TMI 856 - CESTAT Chennai as affirmed
 in 2020 (3) TMI 1101 - SC, British Airways v. Commissioner (Adjn),
 Central Excise, Delhi, 2014 (6) TMI 626 -CESTAT NEW DELHI (LB),
 CCT v. ABB Limited, 2022 (6) TMI 1212 - Karnataka High Court,
 Larsen & Toubro Limited v. Assistant Commissioner, 2022-VIL-800-
 CAL-ST, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Versus Commissioner of C. Ex., Mumbai - 2018 (364) E.L.T. 1006, CCE & CC v. Reliance Industries
 Ltd. and CCE & ST v. Reliance Industries Ltd , (2023 (7) TMI 196 -
 Supreme Court), Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd. v. UOI, (2023
 (4) TMI 216 - Delhi High Court, GD Goenka Pvt. Ltd. Versus
 Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax, (2023) 11 Centax
 2 (Tri.-Del) and M/s. Faiveley Transport Rail Technologies India P Ltd - 2024 (8) TMI 1143 - CESTAT Chennai in this regard. 11. Ld. Consultant also submitted that there was no evidence of any
 wilful suppression or misstatement of facts with intent to evade tax
 and that benefit of section 80 ought to be extended placing reliance
 on the decisions in CST v Motor World , 2012 (27) STR 225 (Kar) and
 CST v Shreenath Motors Pvt Ltd, 2018 (9) TMI 1731 (Bombay High
 Court). It was also submitted that demand of interest and penalty
 are not sustainable and reliance was placed on the decisions in Jai
 Balaji Industries Ltd v CCE , (2024) 20 Centax 146 (Tri-Kol), CCE v
 Jai Balaji Industries, )2024_ 20 Centax 147 (Cal), Jain Irrigation
 Systems Ltd v CCE, Nashik , 2015 ( 40 )STR 752 (Tri-Mumbai) and
 Commercial Engineers & Body Builders v CCE, Bhopal , 2017 (1) TMI
 298- CESTAT NEW DELHI. 12. Learned Authorised Representative, Shri. Anoop Singh appeared for
 the Respondent and made elaborate arguments contending as
 below: 12.5 Ld. AR submitted that the factual position in the present case is that
 all payments made towards the contract are composite in nature
 and are part of the contractual payments and form the
 consideration for the service provided. Any attempt to vivisect the
 part related to amenities etc would make the contract unworkable.
 They have a nexus with the services provided. Without these
 allowances the contract would fail to materialize and no secondee
 would be willing to work. Once a lump sum or gross amount has
 been charged for the service by the supplier of service, it has to
 form the assessable value for the purpose of service tax.
12.6 Ld. Authorised Representative also submitted that the Letter of
 Approval only provides for supply of services in the Domestic Tariff
 Area in terms of the provisions of the SEZ Act and rules and orders
 made thereunder and is not dealing with procurement of service
 from abroad and in the absence of any endorsement by the proper
 officer, it cannot be construed as permission for import of services
 from abroad. 13. We have heard both sides, perused the appeal records and the case
 laws submitted as relied upon. 14. The issues that arise for determination are: 15. We find that the issue whether the overseas group company or
 companies, with whom the Indian Company has entered into
 agreements, provide manpower services to the Indian Company for
 the discharge of its functions through seconded employees, has
 come up for analysis by the Honourable Supreme Court in its
 decision in C.C, CE & S.T., Bangalore (Adjudication) v.
 Northern Operating Systems Pvt Ltd , 2022 (61) G.S.T.L 129
 (SC), wherein the Apex Court has after noticing the relevant
 provisions of the Finance Act, 1994 with amendments as they were
 prior to 01-07-2012 and post the amendments in 2012, with effect
 from 01-07-2012, upon extensive deliberations, concluded, for the
 reasons given therein that the respondent therein, i.e., the Indian
 Company, was the service recipient of manpower recruitment and
 supply services provided by the overseas entity, in regard to the
 employees it seconded to the Indian Company, for the duration of
 their deputation or secondment. Furthermore, the Apex Court also
 held that the invocation of the extended period of limitation in both
 cases, by the revenue is not tenable. 16. In the instant case, RNTBCI has contended that the aforesaid
 decision of the Apex Court would not apply to the facts and
 circumstances of its case, whereas the Revenue has contended that
 the RNTBCI's case would be covered by the ratio of the decision of
 the Apex Court in Northern Operating Systems (NOS Judgement)
 and thus the demand is sustainable. The contentions of both sides
 have been extensively reproduced above. 17. At this juncture, it would be relevant to note the terms of
 agreement and the contentions of the parties raised in the NOS
 Judgement as noted by the Apex Court. As a matter of fact, the assessee issues the prescribed forms to the
 seconded employees, in terms of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (hereafter " IT Act "). Those individuals too file income-tax returns
 and contribute to the provident fund. Furthermore, NOS remits the
 above amounts in foreign exchange, which are reflected in its
 financial statements. The assessee is reimbursed (by the foreign
 entity, Northern Trust Company - hereafter described as such) for
 the amounts it pays as salaries, to these seconded employees. The
 assessee pays for certain services received from the group
 companies. The assessee used to discharge service tax on payments
 for such services in terms of Section 66A of the Act. The appropriate
 major expense heads were 'Salaries & Allowances', 'Relocation
 expenses', 'Consultancy Charges', 'Communication Expenses' and
 'Computer Maintenance and repairs.'" 18. In NOS Judgement, the contentions of the Revenue, inter-alia were
 as under: State of Tamil Nadu & Ors. [(2004) 3 SCC 514]; Silver Jubilee
 Tailoring House v. Chief Inspector of Shops [(1974) 3 SCC 498]; Hussain Bhai Calicut v. Alath Factory Thozhilali [( 1978) 4 SCC 257]
 and Sushilaben Indravadan Gandhi v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. [(2021) 7 SCC 151]. 19. It was submitted that whether a particular contract is one for
 providing services or not is to be decided on the facts of an
 individual case. Further, the fact of control over the manner of
 performance of duties or any one such singular factor cannot be
 decisive. It was submitted that the facts of the present case clearly
 establish that the overseas company entered into specific
 secondment agreements by which its employees were deputed to
 work in the assessee's establishment. The tasks performed by them
 were in aid of the assessee's work which was undertaken by it in
 the service agreement with the overseas company. The salary,
 allowances the duration of the secondment, were all determined by
 the overseas employer and not by the assessee. Upon completion
 of the assignment, the seconded employees were to return to their
 original positions and in the overseas company. The control if any,
 which was with the assessee was for a limited duration - it was not
 enabled to impose sanctions, such as cut in salary, etc. In case it
 was dissatisfied, it could only ask for return of the employee to her
 or his original position with the foreign employer. Upon an overview
 of all these circumstances, it was clear that the contract between
 the parties was essential for the supply of services by the
 concerned overseas company to the assessee. Therefore, it was a 18 taxable service and not excluded by virtue of amended Section 65 of the Finance Act, 1994." 19. The contentions of the assessee in the NOS Judgement were inter- alia, as under: "20. Mr. V. Sridharan, Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
 assessee urged that a conjoint reading of Section 65(68) with Section 65(105)(k) of the Finance Act, 1994 makes it clear that the
 'manpower recruitment and supply agency service' seeks to bring
 under its ambit two types of activities i.e. recruitment of manpower
 and supply of manpower. Further the service becomes a taxable
 service only if provided by a manpower recruitment or supply
 agency. In the present case, the dispute pertains to whether the
 secondment of employees by the group companies to the
 Respondent will be regarded as supply of manpower. 21. It was argued that Circular F. No. B1/6/2005-TRU, dated 27-7-2005
 clarified the scope of 'Manpower Recruitment or Supply Agency'
 service to include staff who are not contractually employed by the
 recipient but come under his direction. This view is further
 strengthened by Master Circular No. 96/7/2007-S.T., dated 23-8-
 2007. It was contended that post July, 2012, under the Negative
 List Regime, by Section 65(44) of the Finance Act, 1994, the
 services provided by an employee to the employer in the course of
 employment are kept beyond the ambit of the definition of 'service'.
 Thus, the position of law both prior to as well as post July, 2012 is
 same. Employee-employer relationship is outside the scope of the
 said service. The category of supply of manpower by an agency
 covers those cases where the manpower so supplied, comes under
 the direction and control of the recipient without contractual
 employment. 22. Learned Counsel argued that, ever since the introduction of service
 tax in India, service by an employee to an employer was never
 subject to service tax. There is no country in the world which levies
 VAT/GST on employment service, or any services rendered by an
 employee to the employer. 23. Counsel urged that the agreements entered by the assessee with its
 group companies were to provide certain specialized services. The
 seconded personnel are contractually hired as the assessee's
 employees. Control over them is exercised by the assessee. Such
 employees devote all their time and efforts under the direction of 19 the assessee; their remuneration is also fixed by it. The employees
 seconded to India are required to report to the assessee's
 designated offices. They are accountable for their performance to
 the assessee; the process of dispersal of the salaries and
 allowances is solely for the sake of convenience and continual of
 the social security benefits in the expats home county. 24. It was urged that in Collector of Central Excise & Service Tax v. Nissin Brake India (P) Ltd. [Civil Appeal Diary No(s). 45344/2018
 (C.A. No. 2408/2019)] [2019 (24) G.S.T.L. J171 (S.C.)], this Court
 while considering similar set of facts dismissed the revenue's
 appeal, which had challenged the CESTAT's ruling that expenses
 reimbursed by the Indian companies to the foreign group
 companies in relation to seconded employees cannot be subject to
 service tax under Manpower Recruitment or Supply Agency
 Service. 25. It was also urged that the group companies are not in the business
 of supplying manpower. The foreign group companies are engaged
 in providing Personal Financial Services (PFS) and Corporate and
 Institutional services along with investment products. The foreign
 group companies cannot be considered as "Manpower Supply
 Agency". 26. It was next urged that service tax is leviable only on the gross
 amount charged for the provision of service. It was argued that
 assuming but not admitting that service is provided by the group
 companies to the assessee, it cannot be said that the value of
 consideration for that service is the amount of salaries paid to the
 expats. To determine value of taxable services for charging Service
 Tax, gross amount charged for providing the services is to be
 determined. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Delhi High
 Court in Intercontinental Consultants and Technocrats Pvt. Ltd. v.
 Union of India [2013 (29) S.T.R. 9 (Del.)], which held that Rule
 5(1) of Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 goes
 beyond the mandate of Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994 as
 quantification of the value of the service can never exceed the
 gross amount charged by the service provider for the service
 provided by him. This position was upheld by this Court in
 Intercontinental Consultants and Technocrats Pvt. Ltd. [(2018) 4
 SCC 669 = 2018 (10) G.S.T.L. 401 (S.C.)]. In the present case,
 the demand of the service tax is being computed on the salaries
 and allowances paid to the employees. The salaries cannot be said 20 to be consideration paid to group companies for provision of service
 and thus such demand (of service tax in lieu of salaries), is
 untenable. Therefore, any cost or expense reimbursed does not
 represent the gross value of taxable service and cannot be a
 consideration for charging service tax. 27. Counsel argued that debit notes raised by the overseas entity upon
 the assessee show that amounts paid were towards reimbursement
 of salaries and other allowances to employees. There was no mark-
 up charged by the foreign company. 28. It was next submitted that the demand to the extent of `
 8,12,62,382/- for the period October, 2006 to September, 2010,
 should be set aside. The assessee was under the bona fide belief
 that the seconded employees were its employees and therefore,
 not covered under the ambit of manpower supply services. Further,
 in any case, the assessee is entitled to avail refund of the service
 tax paid on input services under Rule 5 of the Cenvat Rules read
 with Rule 6A of the Service Tax Rules, 1994. Therefore, there can
 be no intention to evade tax. Counsel also urged that the bona fide
 belief was further strengthened by the fact that for the subsequent
 period (April, 2012 to September, 2014), the Adjudicating
 Authority itself dropped the demand by recording favourable
 findings. 29. It was lastly urged that services received by the assessee from
 foreign group companies would qualify as input services and that it
 is eligible to avail credit of service tax paid on such input services.
 Therefore, even if the said demand of service tax is paid, the entire
 amount is available as input credit and is refunded to the
 Respondent in cash by virtue of Rule 5 of the Cenvat Rules read
 with Rule 6A of the Service Tax Rules, 1994 ("1994 Rules"). The
 assessee relied on detailed facts in this regard through affidavit on
 record by its affidavit dated 17-8-2021 before this Court. It is also
 on record that all the refund claims filed by the assessee had largely
 been granted barring small amounts which were paid against input
 services such as Clearing and Forwarding Agent Services, Courier
 Services, Information Technology Software Services. In this
 regard, reliance is placed on SRF Ltd. v. Commissioner [2016 (331)
 E.L.T. A138 (S.C.)] and Commissioner of Central Excise v. Coca-
 Cola India Pvt. Ltd. [2007 (213) E.L.T. 490 (S.C)]." 20. Bearing the issues framed in this case, the issues that arose in the
 NOS Judgement, the contentions of the revenue therein as well as 21 the contentions of the assessee in the said Judgement as noted
supra, in our minds, we now examine the agreements that have
been made available in the appeal records of this case. The
preamble and articles of the Contract of Mandate dated 01 October
2008, entered into by M/s. Renault((RGM) with RNTBCI, are as
under: personnel who are on International Transfer and to
 whom continuation of social security and other
 benefits have been assured under the relevant
 employment contract. Article The aim of this Contract is to formally set out the
1:Object terms and conditions between RNTBCI and RGM for
 the reimbursement specified in article 2 (hereinafter
 designated the "MANDATE) ARTICLE 2: SCOPE AND MANDATE
2.1 Scope RGM undertakes to make Home country contributions
 (mandatory & non vested) payments on behalf of
 RNTBCI and for the designated employees of RNTBCI.
 RNTBCI will specifically indicate to RGM the
 employees involved in this service. 2.2 Every month the employees concerned will receive a
Description of monthly payment slip summarizing the contribution
the mandate done. By the 7th of each month RNTBCI will notify
 RGM of: The conditions for this international transfer are
 defined in an appendix to this contract and will also
 apply to Host Company when it is an Employer. The
 Host Company defined in Attachment A of the
 appendix may change without modifying anything of
 this contract, in which case, a new attachment will be
 executed between both parties. ARTICLE 2- Mr. Stephane HOBLINGRE will be eligible for
 REMUNERAT remuneration as stated in Article 2 of the Appendix.
 ION
 The salary payable (including social security
 contributions) will be calculated on the basis of a gross
 annual notional basic salary, which for Mr. Stephane
 HOBLINGRE is set at 50753 Euros per annum. In consideration of the execution of this position, this
 gross annual notional basic salary represents global
 remuneration for all activities carried out in view of
 service requirements. This amount will represent the
 basis for the calculation of remuneration, as defined
 in the enclosed appendix, relating to this and any
 subsequent foreign employment with any Host
 Company (any Renault Group Entity Outside France). From the Gross Annual Notional Salary, a net annual
 notional basic salary will be arrived at after deducting
 the following: Both RGM and RNTBCI may mutually agree to increase
 or decrease the duration of the aforementioned
 international transfer on the basis of the requirements
 of the service or activities, after notification to Mr.
 Stephane HOBLINGRE. Should no written response be
 received from Mr. Stephane HOBLINGRE within one
 month of the said notification, Mr. Stephane
 HOBLINGRE will be considered to have accepted the
 extension to the duration of the International transfer. During his employment with RNTBCI, Mr. Stephane
 HOBLINGRE will be subject to the sole supervision and
 control of India IS Development Center Director being
 personnel of RNTBCI and will exclusively report to the
 latter. It is expressly clarified that while the employment
 with RGM comes to an end during the employment 25 with RNTBCL, except subject to what is expressly
 stated in this employment contract and its appendix. In the interest of the Renault Group, RGM may, with
 the consent and under an authority of the RNTBCI,
 modify or terminate this appendix. In addition to this contract, Mr. Stephane HOBLINGRE
 will also be obliged to comply with all laws, regulations
 and, more generally speaking, all applicable legal
 standards in INDIA, with respect to his employer i.e.
 the RNTBCI, particularly with regards local labour
 regulations and any specific regulations applicable to
 international transfers. Article 2- During the period of this contract, "Mr. Stephane
Remuneratio HOBLINGRE will receive remuneration from the
n employer i.e. RGM or RNTBCI as under: The above elements represent a set remuneration for
 the time invested by Mr. Stephane HOBLINGRE in the
 exercise of his function. Article 3 - All payments made hereunder by RGM or the RNTBCI
Taxation to you shall be made subject to applicable statutory
 deductions and withholdings towards applicable taxes.
 Further, you will be liable to pay all taxes and the RGM
 or the RNTBCI is not liable for non-payment of any
 such taxes by Mr. Stéphane HOBLINGRE. ROM or the RNTBCI may at is option, decide to pay
 Indian income taxes on the non-monetary perquisites
 provided to Mr. Stéphane HOBLINGRE. Article 4- In view of the international transfer of Mr. Stephane
Social HOBLINGRE, the former is no longer entitled to
protection coverage by the mandatory regimes applicable in the
 home company. Consequently, RGM has subscribed insurance
 provisions for Mr. Stephane HOBLINGRE covering
 against following risks: l transfer

 Article 8 - At the end of the international transfer, the
 Reintegratio employment contract and this appendix will
 n automatically cease to apply. Mr. Stephane
 HOBLINGRE will be automatically re-instated by
 RENAULT SAS to an equivalent position. This
 reintegration will be done on the basis of the gross
 annual notional basic salary for the home company at
 the date of return. 23. Employment Contract and appendix pertaining to Mr. Anash HAIME,
 of French nationality available on record is on similar terms and the
 employment contract and appendix thereto in respect of Mr. Florian
 GEORGESCU, a Romanian national employed by M/s. Renault as
 Process Design Engineer, with similar terms is also seen on record
 which indicated payment in Romanian currency with some variation
 in emoluments. 24. It is also seen from an Employment Contract dated 9th June 2009
 on record, in respect of Mr. Yasuo Nakajima, an employee of M/s.
 Nissan, Japan entered into with RNTBCI, that it states inter-alia that
 the transferee is reporting to the Manager Product Development,
 the contract is initially for the period starting from 04/07/2009 to
 31/01/2011, the annual salary will be paid in India of 1,474,55.927
 INR and in Japan, 4,942,428 JPY, the transferee will receive a
 monthly salary after deduction of applicable taxes; that he is
 entitled to Housing, schooling of school age accompanying children
 paid for by the company, passage to and from home location
 maximum once a year in economy class for self and family, annual
 leaves twice per year for 5 days per each to anywhere in India or 28 nearshore destination for self and family, Company car for official
 use etc. 25. RNTBCI had on the basis of the above contended as under: that there is no supply of manpower services between M/s. Renault
 or M/s. Nissan and RNTBCI. 26. It was also contended that the facts in the present case are different
 from the facts involved in the Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Northern Operating Systems and therefore the contention
 of the Department that the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 in Northern Operating Systems Private Limited is squarely
 applicable to the facts of the present case, is incorrect. The said
 decision is not applicable to the present case for the reasons that
 on transfer the seconded employee becomes the employee of
 RNTBCI to whom the salary is paid in Indian Rupees and further the
 social security charges and other expenses paid by the overseas
 entity were reimbursed by RNTBCI. 27. Learned Authorised Representative, Shri. Anoop Singh has argued
 that during the secondment term, the expats deployed to RNTBCI
 remain the employees of M/s. Renault or M/s.Nissan and that the
 expats are supplied by the home companies to RNTBCI under
 certain terms and conditions. In other words, expats are on regular
 rolls of the parent company and are deputed on international
 assignments to the appellant and are returned to the parent
 company on completion of the job/project. It is also contended that
 the Employment Contract and appendix entered into between M/s. Renault and the seconded employee would clearly indicate that
 RNTBCI was not a party to the agreement and the terms are
 evidently as dictated by the Home Company and the home
 company exercises complete control over the expats. It is
 contended that the part of remuneration paid to the expats in their
 home country by M/s. Renault and M/s. Nissan, which is ultimately
 borne by RNTBCI is nothing but compensation paid to the Home
 companies towards transfer of these expats as experts for the
 business of RNTBCI and this cash flow is to be construed as
 consideration for the services received. Reliance is placed on the
 judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Northern
 Operating Systems P Ltd, wherein it was held that the service
 provided by the foreign company to the appellant based on
 secondment agreement comes under the category of Manpower
 Supply service and the appellant is liable to pay service tax, as well
 as the decisions in M/s. Renault Nissan automotive India Pvt. Ltd,
 2023 (7) TMI 635 - CESTAT CHENNAI. Reliance is placed on the
 judgement in the case of Great Eastern Shipping Company Ltd. Vs
 State of Karnataka [2020 (32) G.S.T.L. 3 (S.C.)] where it was noted
 that "it is a settled principle in law that a contract is interpreted
 according to its purpose. The purpose of a contract is the interests,
 objectives, values, policy that the contract is designed to actualize.
 It comprises the joint intent of the parties. Every such contract
 expresses the autonomy of the contractual parties' private will. It
 creates reasonable, legally protected expectations between the
 parties and reliance on its results. Consistent with the character of
 purposive interpretation, the court is required to determine the
 ultimate purpose of a contract primarily by the joint intent of the
 parties at the time the contract so formed. It is not the intent of a
 single party; it is the joint intent of both the parties and the joint
 intent of the parties is to be discovered from the entirety of the
 contract and the circumstances surrounding its formation." 28. We find that the aforesaid quoted portion on how a contract is to
 be interpreted was a reproduction of para 13 of the Honourable
 Apex court decision in DLF Universal Ltd. & Anr. v. Director, Town
 and Country Planning Department, Haryana & Ors. , (2010) 14 SCC
 1, in the aforecited decision of the Apex court in Great Eastern
 Shipping Company Ltd. Vs State of Karnataka , 2020 (32) G.S.T.L. 30 3 (S.C.) and one can hardly have any difference with the aforesaid
 proposition. 29. The Adjudicating Authority in the impugned Order in Original
 No.07/2014 ST dated 13.11.2014, after considering the contract
 terms, has rendering findings against RNTBCI, holding as under: 30. Likewise, in the impugned Order in Original No.06/2015-ST dated
 28.08.2015, the adjudicating authority, after analyzing the terms
 of the employments contracts, held against RNTBCI, finding as
 under: 18. In respect of their claim that only 12 were engaged under ITA
(International Transfer Agreement) and the balance 125 were directly
engaged by the noticee under employment contract, I find that the
compensation for these employees (on direct employment contract) are
paid partly in EUROS/foreign currency by their foreign principals directly
into the bank accounts of the expats and the same are collected from
the noticee company in foreign currency. For example one employment
contract dated 1.3.2013 related to Mr. M. Jean-Marc LE GUILLY indicates
that the said expat is offered annual basic salary of Rs.34,69,657.61 in
INR apart from Net Net Foreign Service Premium of 75% of the Net
Annual Basic Salary. It is also given in the contract that apart from the
Indian salary paid herein, the amount of EURO paid into his bank account
on behalf of RNTBCI (the noticee) would be reckoned for tax as per Indian Income Tax Act . Here it should be noted that the amount remitted
to the bank account of the expats are the amounts which are in addition
to the ones given as salary by the Indian company. Hence their claim
that what is remitted to their foreign principals is only salary is not
correct. More over I find that the question of employee-employer
relationship does not arise in this case, as the demand is made only on
the remittances made to the foreign companies and not on the salary
from the employees who are supplied to the Indian company. Further,
the noticee, namely RNTBCI, had not remitted directly for the social
security charges and these charges are remitted through the foreign
parents as the concerned expats still continue to associate with the
foreign parents. Further as revealed in the direct employment contract, 32 the amounts remitted in foreign currency are in addition to the Indian
 salary amounts mentioned in the contract. Hence the notice's claim that
 the remittances made to the foreign companies are nothing but part of
 the salary of the expats is not sustainable. In view of this position I hold
 that the social security and other charges remitted in foreign currency
 to the parents being in the nature of consideration, in respect of supply
 of expats for M/s. RNTBCI as well as the expats who are employed under
 the direct contract, are liable to service tax." 31. We find that the Contract of Mandate between M/s. Renault and
 RNTBCI while indicating that RNTBCI is the employer of the various
 expatriates/personnel who are on International Transfer,
 nevertheless, indicate that under the relevant employment contract
 these employees have been assured a continuation of social
 security and other benefits. The Contract of mandate also indicates
 that its object is to formally set out the terms and conditions
 between the parties for the reimbursement specified and that M/s.
 Renault will recover the payments from RNTBCI as per the rules set
 out therein. These rules include not only all contributions that M/s.
 Renault pays on behalf of RNTBCI by raising a monthly debit note,
 but also 2.5% of the above payments as operating fee. For such
 payments, the invoicing is to be in Euros excluding VAT. That apart,
 it is also seen that the employment contract and the appendix
 thereto is entered into only between M/s. Renault and the expat
 who is being so transferred by M/s. Renault to RNTBCI, which
 clearly indicates that the expat is primarily the employee of M/s
 Renault at first instance. Further, in order to facilitate the statutory
 and other mandated commitments of the employer, i.e. M/s.
 Renault, in the expat's home country (including but not limited to
 insurance, social security, retirement contributions, etc.), the expat
 would be paid such amounts in his home country. The salary of the
 expat, no doubt is subjected to Indian Income Tax Act ,
 nevertheless, to our mind, it appears that the contracts, while
 structured in a manner that the costs of transfer of the expats shall
 be the liability of, and paid by, RNTBCI, however, it appears to be
 so done only as an attempt to establish that there is no permanent
 service establishment of the overseas company in India. In any
 event, when pertinently, the scope of the contract as stipulated in Article 2 inter-alia states "RNTBCI will specifically indicate to RGM 33 the employees involved in this service.", it is evident that both
 parties are ad idem that it is a contract for manpower supply. 32. We find that in the instant case the expat while under employment
 with RNTBCI would function under the control, and supervision of
 RNTBCI. The remuneration to be paid by RNTBCI is however
 decided by M/s. Renault. Thus, although the employment contract
 between M/s. Renault and the expat stipulates in Article 3 that the
 RGM employment (employment with M/s. Renault) will come to an
 end subject to what is stated therein, yet the paying of the said
 amounts relating to the expat's social protection by way of
 insurance, death and disability and added insurance covers in this
 regard, pension contribution etc, by the Home Company is nothing
 but the continuance of the obligations of the Home Company to the
 expat being fulfilled, evidently to be in compliance of the local laws
 of the Home Company, which is thereafter being recouped by
 RNTBCI. In other words, it is the actual liability of the Home
 Company to pay these amounts in compliance with the local laws
 and it is not that of RNTBCI. Therefore, unlike a reimbursement
 where the actual liability to pay is of the person who reimburses
 the money to the actual payer, here the actual liability is not of
 RNTBCI but that of the Home Company. Thus, when the liability
 itself being that of the Home Company as the actual payer is being
 so discharged by the Home Company, the said amount being paid
 by RNTBCI is only in fulfilment of its liability to pay the COSTS of
 such transfer of the expat and is clearly not a reimbursement, but
 a recoupment of the said payment. We are of the view that it is a
 recoupment and not a reimbursement since the liability to pay
 these amounts as per the local laws governing such social security
 contributions or pension contributions being made by the Home
 Company in its relationship with the expat as per the relevant
 employment contract and appendix which the Home Company has
 entered into with the expat was, is, and has always been with the
 Home Company only, and it was never on RNTBCI in the first place.
 Further, Article 1 of the Employment Contract makes it clear in no
 uncertain terms that the employment contract between the expat
 and RGM ( M/s. Renault) exclusively applies in this contract for the
 duration of an International transfer activity. For the aforesaid
 reasons, we are also unable to subscribe to RNTBCI's contention 34 that such payments of social security amounts by the Home
 Company was on behalf of RNTBCI, as it is evident that the Home
 Company was not acting as an agent of RNTBCI, but was acting in
 its capacity as the primary employer of the expat. 33. We also note that under the employment contract the expat, i.e.
 the seconded employee, for the duration of her or his secondment,
 is under the control of RNTBCI, and works under the appellant's
 directions. Yet, the fact remains that they are being loaned on a
 temporary basis by the Home company to the appellant. As per article 3 of the employment contract, the contract will automatically
 cease to take effect at completion of the duration of the
 international transfer, and the employment contract with the Home
 company will automatically restart and take effect at that date. This
 is also emphasized in the appendix to the contract at article 8 titled
 reintegration, which again stipulates that at the end of the
 international transfer, the employment contract and this appendix
 will automatically cease to apply and the expat will be automatically
 reinstated by the Home Company to an equivalent position and
 such reintegration is being done on the basis of the gross annual
 notional basic salary for the home company at the date of return.
 Thus, the expat's employment with the home company can, at best,
 be stated to have been made temporarily inactive. In other words,
 it is not terminated, and the expat continues to retain his lien on
 his employment with the home company, even while it is
 inactive/suspended. Thus, the conspectus of the entire contracts
 when read conjointly appears to indicate that even though there is
 a dual employer-employee relationship, one between the Home
 Company and the expat, and the other between the Host Company
 and the expat, the employer-employee relationship between the
 Home company and the expat overwhelmingly overshadows and
 looms large over the employer-employee relationship between the
 Host Company and the expat, as the predominant relationship
 between the two simultaneously existing dual employer-employee
 relationship. We say so, for the reason that while the contracts are
 structured to reflect operational control of the expat with the Host
 Company while on secondment, the liability to pay the amounts as
 per the local laws governing social security contributions or pension
 contributions being made by the Home Company in its relationship 35 with the expat as the Home Company's employee, coupled with the
 fact that the expat apparently continues to retain his lien on his
 employment with the home company, even while it is
 inactive/suspended and further the fact that on the cessation of the
 secondment period, they have to be repatriated in accordance with
 the employment contract that has been entered into between the
 Home Company and the Expat and exclusively applies for the
 duration of the International transfer activity; clinches the truth
 that the ultimate legal liability and responsibilities of an employer,
 towards the expat as an employee, is always with the Home
 Company in so far as the expat is concerned. 34. At this juncture, it would be relevant to reproduce the relevant
 paragraphs of the analysis and conclusions of the Honourable Apex
 Court in the Northern Operating Systems Pvt Ltd, 2022 (61)
 G.S.T.L. 129 (SC), which are as under: Xxxxxxx 36 42. The assessee's contention before the CESTAT, inter alia, was that
apart from it having control over the nature of work of the seconded
employees, no consideration was charged by the foreign entities from it
for providing the supply of manpower as the revenue alleged. 43. A plain reading of the definition of "manpower recruitment agency" 44. The question is what are the services provided to the assessee, and
by whom? Do they include the provision of services, through employees,
by its overseas group companies or affiliates? After 1-7-2012, the
definition of "service" underwent a change. Except listed categories of
activities excluded from, or kept out of the fold of the definition, every
activity virtually is "service". Now, by Section 65(44) , "service" means (a) any activity (b) carried out by a person for another (c) for consideration, and (d) includes a declared service (the term "declared service" is defined in
Section 66E). 45. Section 65(44) , however, excludes from its sweep [by clause (b)],
"a provision of service by an employee to the employer in the course of
or in relation to his employment." The assessee contends that the
secondment agreement has the effect of placing the overseas employees
under its control, so to say, and enables it to require them to perform
the tasks for its purposes. It emphasizes that the real nature of the
relationship between it and the seconded employees is of employer and
employee, and outside the purview of the service tax regime. 46. From the above discussion, it is evident, that prior to July, 2012,
what had to be seen was whether a (a) person provided service (b)
directly or indirectly, (c) in any manner for recruitment or supply of
manpower (d) temporarily or otherwise. After the amendment, all
activities carried out by one person for another, for a consideration, are
deemed services, except certain specified excluded categories. One of
the excluded categories is the provision of service by an employee to
the employer in relation to his employment. 47. One of the cardinal principles of interpretation of documents, is that
the nomenclature of any contract, or document, is not decisive of its
nature. An overall reading of the document, and its effect, is to be seen
by the Courts. Thus, in State of Orissa v. Titaghar Paper Mills Co. Ltd. [1985 Supp SCC 280] it was held as follows : This principle was reiterated in Prakash Roadlines (P.) Ltd. v. Oriental
Fire & General Insurance Co. Ltd. [(2000) 10 SCC 64]. 48. The task of this Court, therefore is to, upon an overall reading of the
materials presented by the parties, discern the true nature of the
relationship between the seconded employees and the assessee, and the
nature of the service provided - in that context - by the overseas group
company to the assessee. 49. A co-joint reading of the documents on record show that : (i)
Attachment 1 to the service agreement ensures that the overseas group
company assigns, inter alia, certain tasks to the assessee, including back
office operations of a certain kind, in relation to its activities, or that of
other group companies or entities; (ii) The assessee is paid a markup of 15% of the overall expenditure it
incurs, by the overseas company (clause 2, read with attachment 1 of
the Service Agreement); (iii) By the Secondment Agreement, the parties agree that the overseas
employee is temporarily loaned to the assessee (Article I read with the
Schedule); (iv) During the period of secondment, the assessee has control over the
employee, i.e. it can require the seconded employee to return, and
likewise, the employee has the discretion to terminate the relationship
(Article II); (v) The overseas employer (group company) pays the seconded
employee, which is reimbursed to the overseas company, by the
assessee (Article III); (vi) The assessee is responsible for the work of the seconded employee,
i.e., the overseas employer, during the secondment period, is absolved
of any liability for the job or work of its seconded employees (Article
VII); (vii) The secondment is for a specified duration, and the
employment with the assessee ceases upon the expiration of that period
(Article II of the secondment agreement and the "Duration" clause in
the letter of understanding with the seconded employee); (viii) The
letter of understanding issued to the seconded employee specifies that
the tenure with the assessee is an assignment (in one place, the term
used is "At its conclusion, repatriation will be in accordance with the
Global Mobility Repatriation Policy"); (ix) The terms include the salary payable as well as other allowances,
such as hardship allowance, vehicle allowance, servant allowance, paid
leave, housing allowance, etc. The nature of salary and other perks
underscore the fact that the seconded employees are of a certain skill
and possess the expertise, which the assessee requires. 50. The above features show that the assessee had operational or
functional control over the seconded employees; it was potentially liable
for the performance of the tasks assigned to them. That it paid (through
reimbursement) the amounts equivalent to the salaries of the seconded
employees - because of the obligation of the overseas employer to
maintain them on its payroll, has two consequences : one, that the
seconded employees continued on the rolls of the overseas employer;
two, since they were not performing jobs in relation to that employer's
business, but that of the assessee, the latter had to ultimately bear the
burden. There is nothing unusual in this arrangement, given that the
seconded employees were performing the tasks relating to the
assessee's activities and not in relation to the overseas employer. To put
it differently, it would be unnatural to expect the overseas employer to
not seek reimbursement of the employees' salaries, since they were, for
the duration of secondment, not performing tasks in relation to its
activities or business. 51. As discussed previously, there is not one single determinative factor,
which the courts give primacy to, while deciding whether an
arrangement is a contract of service (as the assessee asserts the
arrangement to be) or a contract for service. The general drift of cases
which have been decided, are in the context of facts, where the
employer usually argues that the person claiming to be the employee is
an intermediary. This Court has consistently applied one test: substance
over form, requiring a close look at the terms of the contract, or the
agreements. 52. A vital fact which is to be considered in this case, is that the nature
of the overseas group companies business appears to be to secure
contracts, which can be performed by its highly trained and skilled
personnel. This business is providing certain specialized services (back 39 office, IT, bank related services, inventories, etc.). Taking advantage of
the globalized economy, and having regard to locational advantages, the
overseas group company enters into agreements with its affiliates or
local companies, such as the assessee. The role of the assessee is to
optimize the economic edge (be it manpower or other resources
availability) to perform the specific tasks given it, by the overseas
company. As part of this agreement, a secondment contract is entered
into, whereby the overseas company's employee or employees,
possessing the specific required skill, are deployed for the duration the
task is estimated to be completed in. This Court is not concerned with
unravelling the nature of relationship between the overseas company
and the assessee. However, what it has to decide, is whether the
secondment, for the purpose of completion of the assessee's job,
amounts to manpower supply. 53. Facially, or to put it differently, for all appearances, the seconded
employee, for the duration of her or his secondment, is under the control
of the assessee, and works under its direction. Yet, the fact remains that
they are on the pay rolls of their overseas employer. What is left unsaid - and perhaps crucial, is that this is a legal requirement, since they are
entitled to social security benefits in the country of their origin. It is
doubtful whether without the comfort of this assurance, they would
agree to the secondment. Furthermore, the reality is that the
secondment is a part of the global policy - of the overseas employer
loaning their services, on temporary basis. On the cessation of the
secondment period, they have to be repatriated in accordance with a
global repatriation policy (of the overseas entity). 54. The letter of understanding between the assessee and the seconded
employee nowhere states that the latter would be treated as the
former's employees after the seconded period (which is usually 12-18
months). On the contrary, they revert to their overseas employer and
may in fact, be sent elsewhere on secondment. The salary package, with
allowances, etc., are all expressed in foreign currency (e.g., US $
330,000/- per annum in the letter produced before Court, extracted
above). Furthermore, the allowances include a separate hardship
allowance of 20% of the basic salary for working in India. The monthly
housing allowance in the specific case was ` 3,66,700. In addition, an
annual utility allowance of ` 3,97,500/- is also assured. These are
substantial amounts, and could have been only by resorting to a
standardized policy, of the overseas employer. 55. The overall effect of the four agreements entered into by the
assessee, at various periods, with NTS or other group companies, clearly
points to the fact that the overseas company has a pool of highly skilled 40 employees, who are entitled to a certain salary structure - as well as
social security benefits. These employees, having regard to their
expertise and specialization, are seconded (a term synonymous with the
commonly used term in India, deputation) to the concerned local
municipal entity (in this case, the assessee) for the use of their skills.
Upon the cessation of the term of secondment, they return to their
overseas employer, or are deployed on some other secondment. 56. This Court, upon a review of the previous judgment in Sushilaben
Indravadan (supra) held that there no one single determinative test, but
that what is applicable is "a conglomerate of all applicable tests taken
on the totality of the fact situation in a given case that would ultimately
yield, particularly in a complex hybrid situation, whether the contract to
be construed is a contract of service or a contract for service. Depending
on the fact situation of each case, all the aforesaid factors would not
necessarily be relevant, or, if relevant, be given the same weight." 57. Taking a cue from the above observations, while the control (over
performance of the seconded employees' work) and the right to ask
them to return, if their functioning is not as is desired, is with the
assessee, the fact remains that their overseas employer in relation to its
business, deploys them to the assessee, on secondment. Secondly, the
overseas employer - for whatever reason, pays them their salaries. Their
terms of employment - even during the secondment - are in accord with
the policy of the overseas company, who is their employer. Upon the
end of the period of secondment, they return to their original places, to
await deployment or extension of secondment. 58. One of the arguments of the assessee was that arguendo, the
arrangement was "manpower supply" (under the unamended Act) and
a service [(not falling within exclusion (b) to Section 65(44) ] yet it was
not required to pay any consideration to the overseas group company.
The mere payment in the form of remittances or amounts, by whatever
manner, either for the duration of the secondment, or per employee
seconded, is just one method of reckoning if there is consideration. The
other way of looking at the arrangement is the economic benefit derived
by the assessee, which also secures specific jobs or assignments, from
the overseas group companies, which result in its revenues. The quid
pro quo for the secondment agreement, where the assessee has the
benefit of experts for limited periods, is implicit in the overall scheme of
things. 59. As regards the question of revenue neutrality is concerned, the
assessee's principal contention was that assuming it is liable, on reverse
charge basis, nevertheless, it would be entitled to refund; it is noticeable
that the two orders relied on by it (in SRF and Coca Cola) by this Court, 41 merely affirmed the rulings of the CESTAT, without any independent
 reasoning. Their precedential value is of a limited nature. This Court has
 been, in the present case, called upon to adjudicate about the nature of
 the transaction, and whether the incidence of service tax arises by virtue
 of provision of secondment services. That a particular rate of tax - or no
 tax, is payable, or that if and when liability arises, the assessee, can
 through a certain existing arrangement, claim the whole or part of the
 duty as refund, is an irrelevant detail. The incidence of taxation, is
 entirely removed from whether, when and to what extent, Parliament
 chooses to recover the amount. 60. This Court is also of the view, for similar reasons, that the orders of
 the CESTAT, affirmed by this Court, in Volkswagen and Computer
 Sciences Corporation, are unreasoned and of no precedential value. 61. In view of the above discussion, it is held that the assessee was, for
 the relevant period, service recipient of the overseas group company
 concerned, which can be said to have provided manpower supply
 service, or a taxable service, for the two different periods in question (in
 relation to which show cause notices were issued)." 35. RNTBCI has attempted to distinguish the aforesaid judgement. However, the distinctions sought to be highlighted are not of much
 import when the Apex Court itself has stated in the aforesaid
 Judgement in paragraph 52 that "This Court is not concerned with
 unravelling the nature of relationship between the overseas
 company and the assessee. However, what it has to decide, is
 whether the secondment, for the purpose of completion of the
 assessee's job, amounts to manpower supply." 36. We also find that the employment contract and the appendix
 thereto or the employment contract of RNTBCI with the expat
 employee of M/s. Nissan, Japan, are silent whether RNTBCI shall
 have the sole right, or even the right to take punitive steps against
 misconduct, negligence, fraud or unsatisfactory performance of
 work by the transferred employee while performing the tasks under
 RNTBCI. It is only the length of the contract provided and the
 duration of working week, apart from renumeration and benefits
 that have been spelt out. It is also relevant that unlike an employer-
 employee contract where the employer can terminate the
 employment of the employee in case of contumacious conduct,
 uninfluenced by any other entity, in the RNTBCI's case, it does not 42 have any control on whether or not the Home Company should
 terminate the employment of the expat for such conduct. In fact
 the appendix also has a caveat that the notice may not be
 applicable in case of a transfer within the RENAULT Group or within
 companies controlled as defined in article L233-I6 of the French
 code of commerce and its Alliance companies, all of which clearly
 indicate that the expat/transferee is under the real control of the
 Home Company who is transferring them on a temporary basis and
 RNTBCI has next to nil discretion in suo motu altering the terms of
 employment contract of the transferee, thereby also negating
 RNTBCI's contention of an independent or standalone employer-
 employee relationship. In fact, RNTBCI does not appear to have any
 leeway to act on its own accord to transfer the transferee to suitable
 other duties, or even to transfer to any other duty station, which
 indicates the hold of the Home Company. The employment contract
 between the Home Company and the expat which states that it
 exclusively governs during the international transfer activity,
 makes it clear that the sway of the Home Company as to where the
 transferee would work and what duties the transferee would
 undertake, are not insignificant. Thus, while the fragmented control
 structure obfuscates the limits of disciplinary control and
 enforceability for violation of contractual obligations that can be
 exercised by the Host Company while the expat is with the Host
 Company, nevertheless, the silence on certain aspects in the
 employment contract of the expat, as well as the limitations on
 termination of employment, as observed supra along with the
 exclusivity of the employment contract during the duration of the
 international transfer activity, adds heft to our view that the true
 and real control over the expat is always with the Home Company. 37. We also find the existence of the mark up in the contract of mandate
 is indicative of a directly relatable financial benefit and evidences
 that the contract has been understood as contract for supply of
 manpower by both M/s. Renault and RNTBCI . Further, the indirect
 benefits that the Host Company derives from the skill sets and
 expertise of the expats resulting in improved and efficient
 performances through the transfer or application of the unique
 knowledge/skills/expertise that the expats have developed while
 being with the Home Company, is not something that can be 43 ignored. It is precisely the securing of such benefits that motivates
 RNTBCI to seek secondment of employees from the Home Company
 and for the said purpose take on the liability including recoupment
 of the social security benefits, retirement contributions etc. In such
 circumstances the recoupment of the employee's expenses by the
 RNTBCI, which expenses were otherwise being borne by the Home
 Company, also becomes the consideration for such supply of
 transferees to perform the duties in relation to the Host company's
 business. The conclusions of the Apex Court that "it would be
 unnatural to expect the overseas employer to not seek
 reimbursement of the employees' salaries, since they were, for the
 duration of secondment, not performing tasks in relation to its
 activities or business" as well as the observation that "It is doubtful
 whether without the comfort of this assurance, they would agree to
 the secondment" , is worth bearing in mind in this context. 38. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in its Judgement in Northern Operating
 Systems, has observed that there is no single determinative factor
 for deciding whether a contract is for service or a contract of
 service. Distinctiveness of each case demands an evidence based
 examination and it no doubt appears attractive to strike out a
 different path based on factual aspects disregarding precedents.
 Yet, three factors that evidently has weighed with the Apex Court
 in the NOS Judgement to hold that the assessee therein was, for
 the relevant period, service recipient of the overseas group
 company concerned, which can be said to have provided manpower
 supply service are, (1) the lien on employment, i.e., the
 transferees/expats continuing to be in the employment of the
 overseas employer as is evident from their return to the Host
 Company's employment after completion of the secondment
 tenure, (2) the service rules of the overseas entity governing the
 transferee's terms of employment, even during the secondment,
 which are in accord with the policy of the overseas entity and (3)
 the salary package offered being based on what the expat was
 earning while he was with the Home Company or as fixed by the
 Home Company. This has led to the Honourable Apex Court holding
 that the overseas entity remains the employer and thus, concluding
 that there is a provision of manpower supply services from the
 overseas entity to the Indian entity, taxable under erstwhile service 44 tax law. To our mind, when these three factors exist in a case, no
 lower court or authority can then take a different stand contrary to
 the NOS Judgement. These three factors are evidently in existence
 even in the appellant's case herein as analysed in our discussions
 supra. Further, not every factor elucidated by the Supreme Court
 holds equal relevance or would weigh equally when considering
 individual agreements/contracts in different cases. Yet, when there
 are factors that have weighed with the Apex Court to pigeonhole
 secondment by the overseas company as provision of manpower
 supply service, thereafter, as a Tribunal, we are hardly at liberty to
 distinguish the same as inconsequential factors, or accord less
 weightage, and then to depart from the Judgement of the
 Honourable Apex Court. 39. Therefore, we respectfully defer to the wisdom of the Honourable
 Apex Court that has consciously chosen to apply the substance over
 form test mandating a close look at the terms of the contract, or
 the agreements while interpreting such contracts of transfer/
 employment. Thus, on a careful scrutiny of the relevant documents
 on record, as elucidated supra, we do not find that the facts of the
 instant case is substantially different from the facts stated in the
 judgement of the Honourable Supreme Court in the case of
 Northern Operating Systems Pvt Ltd. We therefore, as answer to
 the first issue framed as to whether the overseas entities are
 providing supply of manpower services to RNTBCI?, hold that the
 overseas entities are to be treated as the employer of the expats,
 and the transfer of expats to RNTBCI pursuant to the contracts,
 would be treated as providing service of manpower supply by the
 overseas entity to RNTBCI. 40. We find that the decisions relied upon by the appellant in this
 context also turn on the peculiar facts and circumstances therein
 which are different from that of Northern Operating Systems as well
 as that of the appellant's facts and circumstances and have been
 rendered before the Apex Court decision laid down the law or
 without noticing or distinguishing the Judgement of the Apex Court
 in Northern Operating Systems. Therefore, all these decisions are
 thus distinguishable as inapplicable in the instant case. In the
 interest of avoiding prolixity, we deem it unnecessary to separately 45 elaborately address each cited case law to distinguish the same on
 the peculiar factual paradigm thereof. 41. We find that the appellant's pleas as in this instance, regarding
 applicability of the decision of the Apex Court in Intercontinental
 Consultants case, was also made by the assessee in Northern
 Operating Systems, which though reproduced in para 50 of this
 order supra, nevertheless for sake of clarity, is reproduced yet
 again as under: 42. These contentions are seen addressed by the Honourable Supreme
 Court in its Judgement in Northern Operating Systems as under: 43. It is pertinent that the Honourable Apex Court, has gone on to not
 only state in para 59 that "a particular rate of tax - or no tax,
 is payable, or that if and when liability arises, the assessee,
 can through a certain existing arrangement, claim the whole
 or part of the duty as refund, is an irrelevant detail", but
 thereafter to hold in the next paragraph 60 that "for similar
 reasons, that the orders of the CESTAT, affirmed by this
 Court, in Volkswagen and Computer Sciences Corporation,
 are unreasoned and of no precedential value" and then again
 in para 61 that "it is held that the assessee was, for the
 relevant period, service recipient of the overseas group
 company concerned, which can be said to have provided
 manpower supply service, or a taxable service, for the two
 different periods in question." 44. Importantly, it is to be noted that the Apex Court in the Northern
 Operating Systems Judgement has not stated that the matter is
 being remitted back to adjudge the liabilities. Instead, the
 Lordships of the Honourable Supreme Court in the NOS Judgement
 had taken cognizance of the said pleas premised on the 47 intercontinental case as well as the plea of revenue neutrality and
 has, after discussions, stated their Lordships' conclusions as under: 45. To our mind, evidently, the Honourable Apex Court has considered
 the plea of revenue neutrality and found it to be irrelevant in the
 context of determining not only whether the liability has arisen, but
 also whether it has to be discharged, when it has, in no uncertain
 terms, not only held that such liability has to be necessarily
 discharged, but also held that consequential demands therefore,
 shall be recovered from the assessee, as can be seen from para 66
 of the Judgement reproduced supra. Thus, when the entitlement to
 availment of credit or entitlement to refund etc., would arise only
 subsequent to the discharge of such revenue liability in the first
 instance; such availment of cenvat credit or entitlement to refund
 also being subjected to further checks and balances in terms of the
 statutory requirements that has to be fulfilled to qualify for the 48 same, the Honourable Apex Court, has decided not to entertain the
 plea of revenue neutrality when holding that the liability has to be
 necessarily discharged. RNTBCI has also placed reliance on a
 number of decisions to contend that the entitlement to cenvat credit
 results in a revenue neutral situation and thus the demand need
 not be sustained. The crucial distinction that we note is that in all
 these decisions, the fact situation was not pertaining to the liability
 that arises consequent to the levy under the Finance Act, 1994 for
 import of service of manpower supply attracting Section 66A of the
 Act ibid. To countenance the plea of RNTBCI would be to render the
 discharge of liability consequent to import of service which attracts
 application of Section 66A, completely otiose, as no person who is
 liable thus need to pay service tax on service received from abroad
 for the reason that the tax so paid will be available as credit to
 them. As we have observed supra, the entitlement to availment of
 credit or entitlement to refund etc., would arise only subsequent to
 the discharge of such revenue liability in the first instance; such
 availment of cenvat credit or entitlement to refund also being
 subjected to further checks and balances in terms of the statutory
 requirements that has to be fulfilled to qualify for the same. Hence,
 the liability to pay the service tax consequent to the levy under the Finance Act ibid by virtue of application of Section 66A cannot be
 extinguished on the plea of revenue neutrality. We are fortified in
 our view on this aspect by the coordinate bench decision of this
 Tribunal in M/s. Prithvi information Solutions v Commissioner
 of Central Tax Rangareddy-GST , 2025 (2) TMI 901-CESTAT
 Hyderabad. 46. In any event, when the Hon'ble Apex Court has held in the Northern
 Operating Systems that the Appellant therein was, for the relevant
 period, service recipient of the overseas group company concerned,
 which can be said to have provided manpower supply service, or a
 taxable service, and has confirmed the demand for the normal
 period, after discussions on the contentions advanced relying in
 intercontinental consultants case as well on revenue neutrality, it is
 not for this Tribunal to hold that the aspect of revenue neutrality
 has not been considered by the Honourable Apex Court, and to then
 deviate therefrom. 47. We thus find that when the plea based on the Intercontinental
 Consultant Judgement as well as the plea on revenue neutrality
 advanced by RNTBCI had also been advanced by the assessee in
 the Northern Operating Systems case and the contentions were
 negated by the Honourable Apex Court as elaborated in the
 reproduction of the relevant paragraphs supra, the very same
 finding of the Honourable Apex Court would also inexorably apply
 in the instant case. Therefore, we hold that the contentions of
 RNTBCI on these counts are wholly untenable. 48. However, while the plea based on the Intercontinental Consultant
 Judgement as well as the plea on revenue neutrality considering
 the entitlement to avail cenvat credit, though considered by the
 Honourable Supreme Court, has clearly not found favour with the
 Honourable Supreme Court; nevertheless, on the issue of
 invocation of the extended period of limitation, we find that the
 Honourable Supreme Court had decided the issue in favour of the
 assessee in the NOS Judgement. 49. In the light of our analysis and discussions above, inasmuch as we
 have found that the inferential and logical links that flow from the
 various clauses of the contracts available on record, when read
 conjointly, clearly indicate that the instant case is substantially
 similar to the fact circumstances of Northern Operating Systems,
 and since we have held that the said Judgement is squarely
 applicable to the facts and circumstances of these appeals; we also
 hold that the view held by RNTBCI about its liability was debatable
 and was so held by RNTBCI without any mala fide. We do not find
 the existence of "wilful suppression" of facts, or deliberate
 misstatement in these instances. For these reasons, in answer to
 the second issue framed by us stated supra, we hold that the
 Revenue was not justified in invoking the extended period of
 limitation to fasten liability on RNTBCI. 50. The third issue is whether the renumeration paid to Directors of
 RNTBCI are exigible to service tax. The contested finding of the
 adjudicating authority upholding the liability of RNTBCI on this
 count in the impugned order in original No.07/2014 (ST) dated 50 13.11.2014, is at paragraphs 34 and 35 and pari materia findings
 have been made in the subsequent impugned order in original
 No.06/2015 dated 28-08-2015 at paragraphs 21 and 22. For
 reference, the findings in the impugned order in original
 No.07/2014 (ST) dated 13.11.2014, as at paragraphs 34 and 35,
 are as under: 51. Whereas, in the impugned Order in Original No8/2016-ST dated
 30.12.2016 by which the Revenue is aggrieved, the adjudicating
 authority had held in favour of RNTBCI on this issue of Director's
 renumeration, finding that the Directors were engaged by the
 noticee as employees and are kept out of the definition of services
 in terms of Section 65(B) 44 of Finance Act, 1994, and inter-alia
 following the Tribunal decision in Rent Works India P Ltd v. CCE ,
 Mumbai V. The contention of the Revenue in its appeal on this
 count is that the employment contract of these employees are
 similar to other Expats and hence the grounds put forth in respect 51 of the other expats holds good and are equally applicable. We do
 not find any substance in this ground for the simple reason, that
 the proposal in the show cause notice that the appellant was put to
 notice was only on the ground that in terms of the relevant
 notification it was incumbent on the company to pay service tax on
 the remuneration paid to the Directors of the company. The
 similarity or otherwise of the employment contract with that of the
 other expats was never an allegation raised in the SCN to demand
 service tax on the renumeration paid to the Directors of the
 company. Hence the present contentions in appeal tantamount to
 making out a new case against the appellant on this count which it
 was never required to meet. Such a proposition is opposed to the
 settled position in law that the Department cannot travel beyond
 the ground raised in the show cause notice. The decision in CC
 Mumbai v Toyo Engineering India Ltd, 2006 ( 201) ELT 513
 (SC) and CCE, Bhubaneswar-I v Champdany Industries
 Ltd,2009 (241) ELT 481 (SC) refer for this proposition. 52. That apart, we find that the issue of demand of service tax on
 Director's renumeration when made by the Revenue, has been
 consistently negatived and held in favour of the assessee in a string
 of Tribunal decisions. This bench of the Tribunal had an occasion to
 deal with the issue earlier as reported in M/s. Dixcey Textiles Pvt
 Ltd v. The Commissioner of Central Excise and ST, Salem
 Commissionerate , 2025 (5) TMI 316 -CESTAT CHENNAI, and
 the relevant portion is reproduced below: Similar view is seen taken in the decision of this Tribunal in Amar Raja
 Batteries v Commr of Central Tax, Tirupathi-GST , (2024) 21
 Centax 216 (Tri-Hyd), and Allied Blenders & Distillers Pvt Ltd v
 CCE & ST, Aurangabad, 2019 (24) GSTL, 207 (Tri-Mumbai). 9) We also note that the appellant has enclosed the very same evidence
 of Board Resolutions as well as Form 16 of the concerned Directors,
 along with the appeal records, which in our view, given the earlier
 decisions of this Tribunal cited supra, evidence the employer employee
 relationship between the appellant and the directors involved in this
 notice. There is no contrary evidence let in that the Directors mentioned
 in the notice are rendering any other services to the appellant. We are
 therefore of the view that the adjudicating authority has grossly erred
 in his finding that these directors were not employees of the appellant
 and in confirming the demand made along with applicable interest on
 the appellant and imposing penalty on the appellant. We hold that the
 impugned Order in Original is wholly unsustainable and set aside the
 impugned Order in Original." 53. We find that in the instant case too, the appellant has in its reply
 at the first instance stated that they have enclosed the extracts of
 the resolution of the Board of Directors of RNTBCI in this regard. They have also contested the demand enclosing the Form 16 with
 respect to the Directors, employment contracts and relevant
 extracts of financial statements. They have also placed reliance on
 similar decisions of the Tribunal holding to the effect that the
 demand of service tax on this count unsustainable. Therefore, in
 line with the decisions of coordinate benches of this Tribunal in this
 regard, we hold that the renumeration paid to Directors of RNTBCI
 are not exigible to service tax and is liable to be set aside. The third
 issue is thus answered in favour of RNTBCI. 54. Ld. Consultant had submitted that being a SEZ unit, the services
 received by RNTBCI is exempt as per Section 26(1) of the SEZ Act
 subject to the conditions prescribed under Section 26(2) of the SEZ
 Act. Conditions as referred to in Section 26(2) of the SEZ Act is
 limited only to the conditions spelt out in SEZ law and nothing else,
 as can be seen from Section 2(w) of the SEZ Act which defines the
 word "prescribed" means to the prescriptions in the rules made by
 the Central Government under the SEZ Act . It has also been
 submitted that RNTBCI is eligible for upfront and complete
 exemption from service tax for the services received for the
 authorised operations of the SEZ unit even without any reference to
 the notifications issued under section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994
 and irrespective of the conditions of the notifications issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994. It has further been submitted
 that the notifications dated 01 March 2011, 20th June 2012, and 01
 July 2013 issued under the Finance Act, 1994 in so far as they relate
 to Special Economic Zone, are set aside in the case of GMR
 Aerospace Engineering Ltd v UOI , by Hon'ble High Court of
 Telengana and Andhrapradesh as such notifications are inconsistent
 with the SEZ law and such decision has been upheld by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court. 55. Ld. Authorised Representative has submitted that the Letter of
 Approval (LOA) only provides for supply of services in the Domestic
 Tariff Area in terms of the provisions of the SEZ Act and rules and
 orders made thereunder and is not dealing with procurement of
 service from abroad and in the absence of any endorsement by the
 proper officer, it cannot be construed as permission for import of
 services from abroad. 56. We note that the appeal records reveal that indisputably, right from
 its reply to the first show cause notice RNTBCI has contested the
 demand of service tax made on it, staking claim to its status as an
 SEZ unit and the prevailing service tax exemption notifications
 provided to SEZ units. There is nothing on record indicating that
 the Development Commissioner has found RNTBCI in violation of
 the LOA in any manner. 57. We notice that in GMR Aerospace Engineering Ltd v. Union of
 India , 2019 (31) GSTL 596 (A.P), the Honourable High Court for
 the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh, after
 framing the issue to be decided as "the only question that arises for
 consideration is as to whether the availability of exemptions under Section 26 of the SEZ Act would depend not only upon the terms
 and conditions prescribed under Section 26(2) , but also upon the
 terms and conditions prescribed in the notifications issued under
 various enactments such as Customs Act, 1962 , Customs Tariff Act,
 1975 , Central Excise Act, 1944 , Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 , Finance Act, 1994 and Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 etc., enlisted in
 clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the Act",
 proceeded to analyse the statutory provisions and the relevant
 portions of the discussions are reproduced below: 22. It may be noted that sub-section (1) of Section 26 begins with the
words "subject to the provisions of sub-section (2)". Sub-section (2)
authorizes the Central Government to prescribe the manner in which
and the terms and conditions subject to which exemptions shall be
granted to the Developer or entrepreneur under sub-section (1). 23. As rightly pointed out by Sri S. Niranjan Reddy, Learned Senior
Counsel appearing for the petitioner, the word "prescribe" appearing in
sub-section (2) of Section 26 has to be understood with reference to
the definition of the word "prescribed" appearing in Section 2(w) of the
SEZ Act, 2005. Section 2(w) of the Act reads as follows : 24. Therefore, the terms and conditions subject to which the
exemptions are to be granted under sub-section (1) of Section 26 should be prescribed by the Rules made by the Central Government
under the SEZ Act, 2005 . Being conscious of this fact, the executive
has incorporated Rule 22 in the SEZ Rules, 2006 issued in exercise of
the power conferred by Section 55 of the SEZ Act. It is not necessary
to extract Rule 22, since there is no dispute about the fact (1) that the
petitioners have complied with the prescriptions contained in Rule 22
of the SEZ Rules, 2006 and (2) that Rule 22 of the SEZ Rules, 2006
does not stipulate the filing of forms A1 and A2 as prescribed in the
three notifications issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994.
Xxxxxx 26. Having taken note of the provisions of the SEZ Act and Rules, let
us have a look at the Finance Act and the relevant notifications. Section
93 of the Finance Act, 1994 reads as follows : 27. A look at Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994 would show that it
has nothing to do with the units located in a SEZ. Section 93 is a
general power of exemption available for the benefit of all and sundry.
In fact, Section 93 was substituted in its present form by Finance (No. 2) Act, 1998 with effect from 16-10-1998. The notifications issued
under Section 93 may cover taxable services of any description. Even
the units located outside a SEZ are entitled to the benefit of the
notifications issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994, if the
conditions stipulated in those notifications are fulfilled. 28. The SEZ Act, 2005 is also a parliamentary enactment issued later
in point of time to the Finance Act, 1994 and Section 51 of the Act
declares that the provisions of the SEZ Act, 2005 shall have effect
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other
law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by
virtue of any law other than this Act. Section 51 reads as follows : 29. The contention of Smt. Sundari R. Pisupati, Learned Senior
Standing Counsel is that there is no inconsistency between (i) the
terms and conditions prescribed in the notifications issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994 and (ii) the terms and conditions
prescribed in Rules 22 and 31 of the SEZ Rules, 2006, and that
therefore, Section 51 of the SEZ Act, 2005 cannot be pressed into
service. But this contention is unacceptable. 30. This is for the reason that Section 26(1) of the SEZ Act made the
entitlement to certain exemptions subject to provisions of sub-section
(2) of Section 26 . Section 26(1) did not make the entitlement of a
Developer to certain exemptions, subject to the provisions of 58 something else other than the provisions of sub-section (2). Therefore,
 the 5th respondent cannot read Section 26(1) to mean that the
 exemptions listed therein are (1) subject to the provisions of sub-
 section (2) of Section 26 , and (2) also subject to the terms and
 conditions prescribed in the Customs Act, 1962 , the Customs Tariff Act,
 1975 , the Central Excise Act, 1944 , the Central Tariff Act, 1985 and
 the Finance Act, 1994 . This is especially so, since the authority of the
 Central Government to prescribe the terms and conditions subject to
 which exemptions may be granted under Section 26(1) , flows only out
 of sub-section (2) of Section 26 . The word "prescribe" is verb.
 Generally no enactment defines the word "prescribe". But the SEZ Act 2005 defines the word "prescribe" under Section 2(w) to mean the
 rules framed by the Central Government under the SEZ Act, 2005 . The
 space is also not left unoccupied, as the Central Government has issued
 a set of Rules known as "the Special Economic Zones Rules, 2006",
 wherein the Central Government has prescribed the terms and
 conditions for grant of exemptions under Rule 22. Therefore, there is
 no question of comparing the terms and conditions prescribed in Rule
 22 with the terms and conditions prescribed in the notifications issued
 under any one of five enactments listed in Section 26(1) to find out
 whether there was any inconsistency. 31. Support can be drawn for the above interpretation, from Section
 50 of the SEZ Act, 2005 also. Section 50 of the SEZ Act, 2005 enables
 State Governments to enact laws for the grant of exemption from state
 taxes, levies and duties. Since a Central Law cannot provide for
 exemption from the levy of State taxes, Section 50 merely enables the
 State Governments to enact laws. 32. A combined reading of Sections 7 , 26 and 50 of the SEZ Act,
 2005, would show that SEZ Act, 2005 speaks of three different types
 of exemptions. They are, - (1) exemption from payment of taxes under the enactments
 specified in the First Schedule, in respect of goods and services
 exported out of, or imported into or procured from a DTA by a unit in
 a Special Economic Zone or a Developer under Section 7 ,
 (2) exemption from payment of duties under the Customs Act,
 1962 , Customs Tariff Act, 1975 , Central Excise Act, 1994 , Central
 Excise Tariff Act, 1985 , Finance Act, 1994 , Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004
 and Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 , covered by Section 26 (1) ; and
 (3) exemption from payment of state taxes, levies and duties
 covered by Section 50 , provided there is a state enactment to the said
 effect. 33. The word "prescribe" is used in the present tense in Section 26(2) and in the past tense in Section 7 . Both will have the same meaning as
 assigned to the word under Section 2(w) . The moment a set of rules is
 issued either in respect of matters covered by Section 7 or in respect
 of matters covered by Section 26(1) , there is no scope for invoking any
 other law for imposing any other condition. 34. The benefit of exemptions granted under the notifications issued
 under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994, are available to any one
 and not necessarily confined to a unit in a special economic zone. Section 93 of the Finance Act, in that sense is a general power of
 exemption available in respect of all taxable services. But, Section
 26(1) is a special power of exemption under a special enactment
 dealing with a unit in a special economic zone. Therefore, the
 notifications issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994 cannot
 be pressed into service for finding out whether a unit in a SEZ qualifies
 for exemption or not." 58. Thereafter, the contention of the Learned Senior Standing Counsel
 for the revenue that SEZ Act, 2005 and the rules framed thereunder
 do not constitute a complete Code in themselves, made by placing 59 reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Girnar Traders
v. State of Maharashtra - 2011 (3) SCC 1, was repelled by the
Honourable High Court, holding as under: 41. On the strength of the aforesaid circular and the amendment to
the Rules, it was contended by the Learned Senior Standing Counsel
that the machinery provisions for working out refund, drawback etc., are
not available either in SEZ Act or the Rules framed thereunder and that
therefore, the operation of the Act is subject to the provisions of the
other enactments. 42. But, we do not agree. Though the "section title" to Section 26 reads
as "exemptions, drawbacks and concessions", clauses (a) to (g) except
clause (d) speak only about exemptions. It is only clause (d) of sub-
section (1) of Section 26 , which speaks about drawbacks and such other
benefits. In so far as exemption is concerned, sub-section (1) makes the
entitlement of a Developer to exemption, subject only to the provisions
of sub-section (2) of Section 26 . Sub-section (2) of Section 26 empowers
the Central Government to prescribe both the manner in which as well
as the conditions subject to which exemptions may be granted.
Therefore, the area relating to exemption is completely occupied by the
rules. 43. It is only the issues relating to refund, demand, adjudication,
review and appeal, which were left unoccupied by the SEZ Act and the
Rules framed thereunder. Realising the vacuum in respect of these
specific areas, sub-rule (5) was inserted under Rule 47. Sub-rule (5) of
Rule 47 makes a reference to the provisions of the three enactments
namely Customs Act, 1962 , Central Excise Act, 1944 and Finance Act,
1994 and the Rules made thereunder and the notifications issued
thereunder. It is by virtue of this sub-rule (5) that the authorities can
fall back upon the Rules and notifications issued under those three
enactments. The very fact that sub-rule (5) was inserted would show,
that but for its insertion, the respondents cannot fall back upon the Rules
framed under the Customs Act etc., for dealing with a question of refund,
demand, adjudication etc. 44. The issue can be looked at from another angle also. If sub-rule (5)
of Rule 47 had also included the procedure for grant of exemption within
its purview, then the stand taken by the Department would be perfectly
valid. The very fact that sub-rule (5) of Rule 47 made the Rules and
notifications issued under certain Acts applicable only to issues of
refund, demand etc., would show that Rules 22 and 31 have
independent legs to stand. 45. Therefore, the writ petition is allowed, the Order-in-Original dated
 20-2-2018 is set aside and the notifications in question in so far as they
 relate to Special Economic Zones, are set aside. There shall be no order
 as to costs." 58. Thus, the Hon'ble High Court after observing that the SEZ Act, 2005 is also a parliamentary enactment issued later in point of time to
 the Finance Act, 1994 and that Section 51 thereof has an overriding
 effect, and considering Section 26 in its entirety, has unequivocally
 held that Section 26(1) is a special power of exemption under a
 special enactment dealing with a unit in a special economic zone.
 It was further held that therefore, the notifications issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994 cannot be pressed into service
 for finding out whether a unit in a SEZ qualifies for exemption or
 not. It has also been held that in so far as exemption is concerned,
 sub-section (1) makes the entitlement of a Developer to
 exemption, subject only to the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 26 . Sub-section (2) of Section 26 empowers the Central
 Government to prescribe both the manner in which as well as the
 conditions subject to which exemptions may be granted. Therefore,
 the area relating to exemption is completely occupied by the rules.
 It was further held that the very fact that sub-rule (5) of Rule 47
 made the Rules and notifications issued under certain Acts
 applicable only to issues of refund, demand etc., would show that
 Rules 22 and 31 have independent legs to stand. It is also seen that
 the SLP preferred by the Revenue against the said decision was
 dismissed on 26-07-2019 as reported in Union of India v. GMR
 Aerospace Engineering Ltd , (2023) 6 Centax 155 (SC) 59. We find that the aforesaid decision in GMR Aerospace Engineering
 was relied upon in Eclerx Services Ltd v. Commr. of CGST &
 C.Ex, Navi Mumbai, 2023 (72) G.S.T.L 99 (Tri-Mumbai),
 wherein the demand of service tax was made on the appellant
 finding that the appellant had rendered services to SEZ units
 without discharging its service tax liability and the adjudicating
 authority had held that the appellant therein ought to have abided
 by the conditions of the service tax notification and paid the liability
 at first and claimed refund subsequently adhering to the procedural
 requirements therein. The Tribunal held that procedural infirmities
 does not in any way supplant the exemption accorded to the
 impugned supply of services. It was also found that the findings of 62 the adjudicating authority do not arrive at a conclusion that, but for
 the said procedural infirmities, the eligibility of the appellant to
 render such services without payment of service tax was in
 question. The Tribunal held that in light of the decision cited, the
 overriding nature of the exemption afforded by Section 26 of the
 SEZ Act 2005 and the breach of conditions being procedural, the
 demand pertaining to the rendering of services was set aside. The
 civil appeal preferred by Revenue against the said decision of the
 Tribunal was dismissed by the Honourable Apex Court, in Commr.
 of CGST, Navi Mumbai v. Eclerx Services Ltd , 2023 (72)
 G.S.T.L 4 (SC), holding as under: 60. We also find that the decision in GMR Aerospace Engineering has
 since been applied and followed by coordinate benches of this
 Tribunal as can be seen from the decisions in Metlife Global
 Operations Support Center (P) Ltd v CST, New Delhi , 2021
 (46)G.S.T.L 418 (Tri-Del), TVS Logistics Services Ltd v
 Principal Commr. of S.T., Chennai, 2021 (50) G.S.T.L 530
 (Tri-Chennai). Furthermore, we find that the jurisdictional High
 Court in Salcom Manufacturing India Pvt Ltd v Commr. of
 CGST and Central Excise, (2024) 18 Centax 162 (Mad), has
 taken cognizance of the fact that the judgment of the Telangana
 and Andhra Pradesh High Court in GMR Aerospace Engineering
 holds the field as on date. 61. We note that Section 2(c) of the SEZ Act, 2005 defines "authorised
 operations" as "authorised operations" means operations which
 may be authorised under sub-section (2) of Section 4 and sub- section 9 of Section 15 . Further the definition of "import" as given
 in Section 2(o) of the SEZ Act stipulates, inter-alia, that "import"
 means bringing goods or receiving services, in a Special Economic 63 Zone, by a Unit or Developer from a place outside India by land,
 sea or air or by any other mode, whether physical or otherwise".
 In the instant case, indisputably, RNTBCI is an SEZ unit. The SEZ
 Development Commissioner has communicated to RNTBCI the list
 of specified services as approved by the Unit Approval Committee
 which clearly indicates Manpower requirement and supply agency's
 services in the annexure thereto. The Letters of Approval for the
 relevant period state that the Development Commissioner, MEPZ
 Special Economic Zone is pleased to extend all the facilities and
 entitlements admissible to a unit in a Special Economic Zone
 subject to the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the rules and
 orders made thereunder to RNTBCI for undertaking authorised
 operations. The specific contention of RNTBCI that the seconded
 expats worked only for the assignments or projects which are part
 of authorised operations of the SEZ unit in R & D and engineering
 activities and thus the impugned manpower supply service received
 by RNTBCI were utilized exclusively for the purpose of authorised
 operations, remain uncontroverted in the Orders in Original
 impugned by RNTBCI. While the Revenue has contended in its
 appeal that the onus is on RNTBCI to evidence that the services are
 exclusively used for authorised operations to be extended the
 benefit of the service tax notification, we find that it has never been
 the case of the Department that the output services have been used
 for services other than authorized operations nor any finding to this
 effect has been recorded in the impugned Orders in Original. In any
 event, we find that in light of the decision in GMR Aerospace
 Engineering, the said contention is untenable given the overriding
 effect of the exemption under Section 26 read with Section 51 of
 the SEZ Act, 2005. Thus the contention of the Ld. A.R on this count
 cannot be countenanced. 62. That apart, being a SEZ unit, the services received by RNTBCI is
 exempt as per Section 26(1)(e) of the SEZ Act subject to the
 conditions prescribed under Section 26(2) of the SEZ Act. Inasmuch
 as the Hon'ble High Court in the decision of GMR Aerospace
 Engineering cited supra has held that the terms and conditions
 subject to which the exemptions are to be granted under sub-
 section (1) of Section 26 should be prescribed by the Rules made
 by the Central Government under the SEZ Act, 2005 , evidently the 64 cconditions as referred to in Section 26(2) of the SEZ Act is confined
 only to the conditions spelt out in SEZ law and nothing more, since Section 2(w) of the SEZ Act which defines the word "prescribed"
 stipulates that " "prescribed" means prescribed by the rules made
 by the Central Government under this Act". The conditions
 prescribed for such exemptions under Section 26(1)(e) , are seen
 stipulated in Rule 22 and 31 of the SEZ Rules. We note that Rule
 22 of the SEZ Rules during the relevant period only laid down the
 terms and conditions pertaining to grant of exemption, drawback
 and concession to the entrepreneur or Developer, subject to the
 conditions stipulating execution and maintenance of Bond cum
 letter of undertaking in Form H for SEZ Units and in Form D for the
 Developer and Co-Developer, relating to proper accounting of the
 goods received by the SEZ unit, submission of quarterly and annual
 statements regarding the operations and usage of inward goods
 etc. Compliance with such conditions are not the subject matter of
 the present dispute. Further, Rule 31 of the SEZ Rules during the
 relevant period also provided for exemption from service tax, for
 the services received by a SEZ unit for the authorised operations in
 a SEZ sans any conditions prescribed therefor. The Hon'ble High
 Court had therefore, in the aforesaid cited decision of GMR
 Aerospace Engineering, held that the notifications issued under Section 93 of the Finance Act, 1994 cannot be pressed into service
 for finding out whether a unit in a SEZ qualifies for exemption or
 not., especially since Section 51 of the SEZ unequivocally stipulates
 that the provisions of SEZ Act shall have effect notwithstanding
 anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the
 time being in force. 63. As already stated supra, the decision in GMR Aerospace
 Engineering Ltd v. Union of India , 2019 (31) GSTL 596 (A.P),
 has not only been affirmed by the Supreme Court, but also has
 been followed by the Apex Court while dismissing the revenue's
 appeal in the case of UOI v Eclerx Services P Ltd. That apart, the
 jurisdictional High Court has also observed that the decision in GMR
 Aerospace Engineering holds the field. Furthermore, the coordinate
 bench orders of this Tribunal has also been relying on and applying
 the decision of the Hon'ble High Court in GMR Aerospace
 Engineering case. Therefore, in adherence to judicial discipline, we 65 too respectfully follow the same and as answer to the fourth issue
 framed supra, hold that in light of the overriding effect of the
 exemption under Section 26 of the SEZ Act read with Section 51 of
 the Act ibid as well as read with Rule 22 and Rule 31 of the Rules
 thereunder, as was prevailing for the relevant period, RNTBCI is
 entitled to upfront and complete exemption from service tax for the
 services received for their authorised operations as SEZ Unit and
 thus, there does not arise any liability on RNTBCI to pay service tax
 under the relevant provisions of the Finance Act for the supply of
 manpower services received from the overseas companies. 64. For all the reasons set out above, the findings in the impugned
 orders in original, holding to the contrary, cannot sustain and are
 liable to be set aside. Ordered accordingly. 65. In light of our discussions above and for the reasons stated supra,
 we hold that Renault Nissan Technology and Business Centre India
 Private Limited succeeds in the appeals preferred and the appeals
 are allowed with consequential relief in law, if any. For the same
 reasons aforesaid, the Department's appeal against the Order in
 Original impugned therein is dismissed on the aforesaid terms, with
 consequential relief in law to Renault Nissan Technology and
 Business Centre India Private Limited, if any. (Order pronounced in the open court on02.09.2025)

 (AJAYAN T.V.) (VASA SESHAGIRI RAO)
 Member (Judicial) Member (Technical)

 psd