Bharti Airtel has urged its market competitor Reliance Jio to join forces to curb the “menace” of telecom fraud, according to a letter seen by MediaNama. The telecom giant also sent letters to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) informing them of the same. As per the Hindu Business Line , Airtel sent a similar communication to Vodafone Idea.

For context, Airtel had proposed last year that telecom companies should launch a joint initiative to “tackle unsolicited commercial communications (UCC)” through corporate connections’ data sharing.

If the big three telecom companies decide to work together against telecom scams and fraud, with the support of the Government authorities, the problem can potentially be resolved expeditiously.

Airtel, while citing the Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre (I4C) data, said that India recorded over 1.7 million cybercrime complaints in the first nine months of 2024, resulting in financial losses exceeding Rs 11,000 crore.

“A major contributor to this has been brand abuse, where cybercriminals impersonate trusted entities to mislead consumers into divulging sensitive information or making financial transactions. The use of fraudulent URLs to perpetrate these scams, accounts for nearly half of all financial losses,” the telecom giant pointed out in its latest letter to Reliance Jio.

Airtel further added that the real threat telecom service providers (TSPs) need to deal with is the growing spread of deceptive and malicious URL links that scammers employ to target vulnerable individuals. These messages entice users into clicking on URLs that redirect to phishing websites, fake loan offers, or fraudulent payment pages, which mislead users into sharing personal, financial, or security-sensitive information.

Since such threats are growing, Airtel believes that the telecom industry must come together to respond in a unified manner.

“In this spirit, we propose the creation of a Joint Telecom Fraud Initiative, comprising of all Telecom Service Providers, to work together to prevent, detect, and mitigate potential fraud and scam flowing through our networks,” Airtel says in the letter.

According to Airtel, such an initiative would enable:

Airtel had proposed last year that TSPs should share details of corporate connections being used for commercial calling in a standardised format. This would aid the TSPs to proactively monitor for spam and mitigate potential misuse. Furthermore, Airtel had also proposed a centralised data-sharing platform to address the issue of UCC.

In September 2024, the Indian telecom giant launched its network-based, Artificial Intelligence (AI)-powered spam detection solution to alert customers in real-time. This system detects spam calls and SMS by analysing several parameters like the caller/message sender’s usage pattern, call/SMS frequency, and call duration. In addition, the spam detector cross-references the information against known spam patterns to alert users about suspected spam.

Along with AI and machine learning-enabled features, a joint effort from the Government bodies and industry players would go a long way in protecting the vulnerable from telecom fraud and scams.

In this context, a joint initiative between three of India’s telecom giants to share information and data could help users protect themselves better from fraudulent callers and spammers, regardless of the TSP they have subscribed to.

Notably, Airtel’s AI-powered spam detection feature has been able to make some progress in this regard. In December 2024, the telecom giant revealed that this particular feature has been able to detect 8 billion spam calls and 800 million SMS messages since September 2024. Additionally, the company was able to alert 252 million unique customers about suspicious calls. This led to a 12% fall in response to such calls, Airtel claimed.

In October 2024, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) announced that it was also planning to roll out an AI-based spam detection system that would help in neutralising and eliminating scams before they reach its subscribers.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event