The Delhi High Court (HC) declined the bail plea of an operative of a terrorist group, stating that using social media to disseminate radical ideology invites provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA).

A division bench consisting of Justices Subramonium Prasad and Harish Vaidyanathan Shankar made this observation, emphasising that a physical act of terror is not necessary in a UAPA case.

Notably, the terrorist group involved in this proceeding was the Resistance Front ( TRF ), a proxy terror outfit of Lashkar-e-Toiba’s (LeT). The TRF had initially claimed responsibility for the heinous Pahalgam terror attack in Jammu & Kashmir on April 22.

The HC noted that the accused, one Arsalan Feroze Ahenger, posted photos of terrorists and provoked people to commit heinous crimes, adding that there was a high possibility that he would tamper with the evidence in this case if the court granted him bail.

Earlier the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had booked Ahenger under Section 17 (punishment for raising funds for a terrorist act), Section 18 (punishment for conspiracy for commission, abetment, or incitement of a terrorist act), Section 18B (punishment for recruiting any person or persons for a terrorist act), Section 38 (membership of a terrorist organisation), and Section 39 (supporting a terrorist organisation) of the UAPA.

The Delhi HC judges specifically referred to the wide coverage of Section 18 of the UAPA in this case. “The said provision is framed in such a broader way that even the usage of social media or any digital activity for the purpose of disseminating radical information and ideology falls within its ambit, and it is not necessary that the same is to be a physical activity,” the HC stated.

Elsewhere, the NIA stated that Ahenger had links with one Mehran Yaseen Shalla, another terror operative working for both the TRF and LeT. Notably, Shalla died in an encounter in November 2021.

The investigating agency alleged that Ahenger made use of social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Telegram, Instagram, and Twitter to radicalise vulnerable youths. Meanwhile, the court noted that he used images and videos of the slain Shalla to glorify terrorist activities and to spread the radical ideology of TRF among the masses.

Ahenger asserted in his petition that merely sharing the deceased Shalla’s images did not amount to a terrorist act under UAPA, and that the NIA lacked sufficient evidence to prove his participation in helping Shalla. He therefore argued that he was not guilty under Section 18 of the UAPA.

However, the Delhi HC denied bail to Ahenger, observing that the NIA had sufficient evidence linking him to Shalla . “It cannot be said that there is no evidence against the Appellant (Ahenger) that he was closely associated with slain terrorist Mehran Yaseen Shalla or that he has actively participated in the terrorist activities himself,” the court remarked.

“Material does indicate that the Appellant was disseminating information for inciting local youths to indulge in activities that will lead to committing a terrorist act, which is sufficient to bring the Appellant within the ambit of Section 18 of UAPA, thereby satisfying the test of rejection of bail under UAPA,” the Delhi HC added.

Furthermore, the court rejected Ahenger’s claim that the case under UAPA was not against him, as the TRF was not a designated terrorist organisation on the date of his arrest.

Notwithstanding this rejection, the Delhi HC stated that it was open to Ahenger approaching the Competent Court to get bail if the trial did not begin in the near future, or if there was an undue delay in the trial’s completion.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event