50. As there is a difference of opinion between the Accountant Member and the Judicial Member, the matter is being referred to the President of the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal with a request that the following question may be referred to a Third Member or to pass such orders as the President may desire : U.B.S. Bedi, Judicial Member 51. As there is a difference of opinion between the members on the Bench, following point of difference is being referred to President for hearing on such point or for nominating the Third Member or to pass such orders as the President may deem fit and proper. ORDER OF THIRD MEMBER
 

 M.K. Chaturvedi, Vice-President 52. This appeal came before me as a Third Member to express my opinion on the following question : 53. I have heard the rival submissions in the light of material placed before me and precedents relied upon. The assessee claimed an amount of Rs. 1,82,094 under the head "Staff trainee account" and a further amount of Rs. 6,850 under the head "Travelling expenses" incurred in respect of foreign education of Shri Krunal P. Vora. Shri Krunal P. Vora is the nephew of Shri Jayantilal P. Vora, a partner of the firm. He was sent to U.S.A. for higher education in structural engineering. The Assessing Officer held that these expenses were not incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the assessee's business. As such, he disallowed the same. The Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) confirmed the disallowance. 54. I have perused the conflicting orders passed by the Tribunal. I have also examined the relevant documents and papers available on record. The asses-see did not file any evidence to buttress the "employer" and "employee" relationship. The only document which was placed before me by the assessee is articles of agreement, dated August 11, 1988, between M/s. K.B. Mehta, referred to as "employer" and Shri K.P. Vora, referred to as "employee". There is no evidence to support the fact that how they are employer and employee. 55. Shri G.S. Singh, learned Commissioner of Income-tax, Departmental Representative invited my attention on Clause 5 of this agreement. This clause stipulates that all sums paid and advanced to Shri K.P. Vora in connection with his studies shall constitute a debt owing to the employer and shall be recoverable by the employer from the employee with interest at the rate of 18 per cent per annum from the date of breach of any of the conditions. This clause is just compensatory. There is no stipulation for any damages for the breach. My attention was also invited on the bio-data of Shri K.P. Vora. From the said bio-data it appears that he completed his M. S. in Civil Engineering in May, 1989. From August 1989, onwards he worked as design engineer with Morrison Knudsen Engineers, Inc. San Francisco, CA; immediately after completing the study, he did not come back to India to join the firm. 56. Shri K.A. Sathe, learned counsel for the assessee, submitted that Shri K.P. Vora obtained a degree of foreign University. He worked in U.S.A. to gain experience. There was a bona fide arrangement between the employer and the employee. The fact that the employee is related to the employer is not a material alliunde to which the claim can be disallowed. It was emphasised that the expenditure was incurred exclusively for the purposes of business. Reliance was placed on the decision of the jurisdictional High Court rendered in the case of Sakal Papers Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT [1978] 114 ITR 256 (Bom). 57. Shri G.S. Singh, learned Commissioner of Income-tax, Departmental Representative, heavily relied on the decision of the jurisdictional High Court rendered in the case of CIT v. Hindustan Hosiery Industries [1994] 209 ITR 383 (Bom) and the decision of the Madras High Court rendered in the case of M. Subramaniam Bros. v. CIT [2001] 250 ITR 769. 58. I now proceed to discuss the precedents relied upon. In the case of Sakal Papers Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT [1978] 114 ITR 256 (Bom), the assessee was a closely held company with two directors. It published a leading Marathi newspaper. The directors were husband and wife. Their daughter, who was a Master of Arts with English and French as special subjects, worked in the editorial department of the paper, starting as an apprentice, from September, 1955. She was sent to U.S.A. in 1960, for specialised education in journalism and business administration. The directors believed that it would be good for the progress of the paper. She attended the Graduates' School of Journalism at Columbia University in New York and secured the degree of Master of Journalism and, thereafter, spent three months to obtain practical training in printing and lithography. On her return from U.S.A., she again joined the editorial department of the company and she was still working with the company. There was no agreement between her and the company binding her to serve the company for a specified period of years. The Assessing Officer disallowed the amount. The Appellate Assistant Commissioner confirmed the order of the Assessing Officer. The Tribunal found that the selection for training in U.S.A. of the daughter could not be attributed to any extra-commercial consideration and since the company had not taken any commitment about the service from the trainee, it had not behaved in a sensible or business like manner. As such, the disallowance was upheld. The High Court has held that merely because there was no commitment or contract or bond taken from the trainee, the expenditure which was otherwise proper, cannot be disallowed to the company, particularly when as a result of that expenditure the trainee had secured both a degree and training which could be of assistance to the asses-see-company and she had in fact served the company on her return to India. The factum of relationship itself would be an assurance that as far as possible, the result of the training would be utilised for the benefit of the company. Therefore, the expenditure incurred on the foreign education of the daughter was allowed. 59. I find that the facts of the present case are different from the facts of Sakal Papers Pvt. Ltd. [1978] 114 ITR 256 (Bom). In the present case the assessee could not establish that Shri K.P. Vora was the employee of the company. No evidence in this regard was ever adduced. From the bio-data of Shri K.P. Vora it is clear that he did not join the company soon after the completion of education. He joined some American firm after completing his education. It was not demonstrated that how the expenditure was incurred for the benefit of the business of the assessee. 60. In the case of CIT v. Hindustan Hosiery Industries [1994] 209 ITR 383 (Bom) the expenditure was incurred for sending to USA one of the partners of the assessee-firm, a manufacturer of nylon socks and underwear, for obtaining a degree in business management from an American university. The expenditure was held not allowable as business expenditure as there was no nexus between the expenditure and the business of the assessee-firm. Therefore, it is sine qua non that the assessee must establish the nexus between the expenditure and the business of the assessee-firm. 61. In the present case the assessee failed to establish any such nexus. 62. In the case of M. Subramaniam Bros. v. CIT [2001] 250 ITR 769 (Mad), the principle laid down by the jurisdictional High Court in the case of Hindustan Hosiery Industries [1994] 209 ITR 383 (Bom) was followed. The expenditure was held to be of personal nature, as such not allowable. 63. The true test of an expenditure laid out wholly and exclusively for the purposes of trade or business is that it is incurred by the assessee as incidental to his trade for the purpose of keeping the trade going and of making it pay and not in any other capacity than that of a trader. It is to be seen that whether the expenditure was incurred with the object of furthering the trade or business interest of the assessee unalloyed or unmixed with any other consideration. If the expense is found to bear an element other than the trade or business interest of the assessee, the expenditure is not allowable one. 64. Taking into consideration the entire conspectus of the case I am of the opinion that there was no nexus between the expenditure and the business of the assessee-firm. As such, I am inclined to agree with the view taken by the learned Judicial Member. 65. The matter will now go before the regular Bench for deciding the appeal in accordance with the opinion of the majority.