The global surveillance-for-hire industry continues to grow and indiscriminately target people – including journalists, activists, litigants and political opposition – to collect intelligence, and manipulate and compromise their devices and accounts across the internet, said Meta in its report titled “ Threat Report on the Surveillance-for-Hire Industry “, released on December 15, 2022. This is their second report; the first report was published a year ago .

Meta said it has been taking action against commercial spyware vendors (the surveillance-for-hire industry) around the world by disabling their accounts, blocking their infrastructure, and alerting people who were affected by them.

Meta caught an Indian firm which was scamming users

Meta removed a network of 40 accounts belonging to India-based CyberRoot Risk Advisory Private, who, among other things, would create fictitious accounts of journalists, business executives, and media personalities. They would even create nearly identical accounts of their friends and family members to make the account seem more real.

As a part of their phishing, they would also steal the login information of users by creating spoofed web domains of services like Gmail, Zoom, and Facebook. The following image illustrates a Dropbox spoof domain created by the spyware vendor.

Why it matters: Surveillance today is no longer limited only to the State. Private entities and even individuals have access to various free and paid online tools to conduct surveillance. They can even hire a private agency for this purpose. For instance, Social Links , a surveillance company mentioned in Meta’s report, states on its website that it has 1000+ ways of conducting surveillance, 500+ data sources, and 1.3 billion identities.

This tool is also available for private investigations, its website states. It also caters to governments and Law Enforcement Agencies, and “corporate security”.

In its report, Meta highlighted the following trends and tactics used by spyware vendors:

Not only are surveillance tools easily accessible but these tools can be deployed anywhere in the world and be used to target anyone. So, someone sitting in China or the US will have the capability to scrap the data of someone sitting in India.

It will be hard to stop such surveillance activities even when strong laws are put in place to ban them, as the web provides (fairly) unrestricted access to various websites. Access to an individual’s personal information can be used for things like behavior monitoring, scams, exploitation, blackmail and extortion, spying, and much more. Surveillance-for-hire remains a huge problem waiting to be solved and platforms will have to take the lead in protecting their customers before it gets too late.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event