% 18.07.2024 1. This writ petition has been preferred on behalf of the Petitioner under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India seeking the following
 reliefs: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:08:23 2. Learned counsel for the Respondent raises an objection to the
 maintainability of the writ petition on the ground that as a result of the
 disinvestment process initiated by the Government of India, Air India
 Limited ('AIL') has ceased to be a public body and therefore, no writ can lie
 against AIL in the circumstances that exist today. It is submitted that
 originally AIL was a statutory body constituted under the Air Corporations
 Act, 1953 , however, post its repeal and in terms of the Air Corporations
 (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal) Act, 1994 , it had become a wholly
 owned company of the Government of India. It is at this stage that the
 present writ petition was filed, however, in light of the position that obtains
 today, where AIL has been privatised and the entire shareholding of the
 Government of India in AIL has been transferred to M/s. Talace Pvt. Ltd. (a
 wholly owned subsidiary of M/s. Tata Sons Pvt. Ltd.), no writ petition can
 lie under Article 226 of the Constitution of India as AIL is no longer a
 public body or Authority within the meaning of Article 12 of the
 Constitution of India. 3. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in R.S.
 Madireddy and Another v. Union of India and Others , 2024 SCC OnLine
 SC 965, wherein the Supreme Court has held as follows: (emphasis supplied) 36. Further, in the case of Federal Bank Ltd. v. Sagar Thomas , this
 Court culled out the categories of body/persons who would be amenable to
 writ jurisdiction of the High Court which are as follows: (vi) a private body run substantially on State funding; (vii) a private
 body discharging public duty or positive obligation of public nature;
 and (viii) a person or a body under liability to discharge any function
 under any statute, to compel it to perform such a statutory function." 37. The respondent No. 3(AIL), the erstwhile Government run airline
 having been taken over by the private company Talace India Pvt. Ltd.,
 unquestionably, is not performing any public duty inasmuch as it has taken
 over the Government company Air India Limited for the purpose of
 commercial operations, plain and simple, and thus no writ petition is
 maintainable against respondent No. 3(AIL). The question No. 1 is
 decided in the above manner. 38. The question of issuing a writ would only arise when the writ
 petition is being decided. Thus, the issue about exercise of extra ordinary
 writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India would arise
 only on the date when the writ petitions were taken up for consideration
 and decision. The respondent No. 3(AIL)- employer was a government
 entity on the date of filing of the writ petitions, which came to be decided
 after a significant delay by which time, the company had been disinvested
 and taken over by a private player. Since, respondent No. 3 employer had
 been disinvested and had assumed the character of a private entity not
 performing any public function, the High Court could not have exercised
 the extra ordinary writ jurisdiction to issue a writ to such private entity.
 The learned Division Bench has taken care to protect the rights of the
 appellants to seek remedy and thus, it cannot be said that the appellants
 have been non-suited in the case. It is only that the appellants would have
 to approach another forum for seeking their remedy. Thus, the question
 No. 2 is decided against the appellants. 39. By no stretch of imagination, the delay in disposal of the writ
 petitions could have been a ground to continue with and maintain the writ
 petitions because the forum that is the High Court where the writ petitions
 were instituted could not have issued a writ to the private respondent
 which had changed hands in the intervening period. Hence, the question
 No. 3 is also decided against the appellants. 40. Resultantly, the view taken by the Division Bench of the Bombay
 High Court in denying equitable relief to the appellants herein and
 relegating them to approach the appropriate forum for ventilating their
 grievances is the only just and permissible view. 41. We may also note that the appellants raised grievances by way of W.P.(C) 10423/2019 Page 4 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:08:24
 filing the captioned writ petitions between 2011 and 2013 regarding
 various service-related issues which cropped up between the appellants
 and the erstwhile employer between 2007 and 2010. Therefore, it is clear
 that the writ petitions came to be instituted with substantial delay from the
 time when the cause of action had accrued to the appellants. 42. It may further be noted that the Division Bench of Bombay High
 Court, only denied equitable relief under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India to the appellants but at the same time, rights of the appellants to
 claim relief in law before the appropriate forum have been protected. 43. We may further observe that in case the appellants choose to
 approach the appropriate forum for ventilating their grievances as per law
 in light of the observations made by the Division Bench of the Bombay
 High Court, Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963 shall come to the
 rescue insofar as the issue of limitation is concerned. 44. In wake of the discussion made hereinabove, we do not find any
 reason to take a different view from the one taken by the Division Bench of
 the Bombay High Court in sustaining the preliminary objection
 qua maintainability of the writ petitions preferred by the appellants and
 rejecting the same as being not maintainable." 4. In view of the aforesaid judgment of the Supreme Court, the writ
 petition cannot be entertained and is accordingly dismissed as not
 maintainable. Liberty is granted to the Petitioner to take recourse to
 remedies available in law before the appropriate forum. It is made clear that
 the time period, for which the writ petition has been pending in this Court,
 will be excluded for the purpose of computation of limitation under Section
 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963, should the Petitioner seek any remedy by
 instituting fresh proceedings in a forum where question of limitation will be
 relevant and may arise. JYOTI SINGH, J
 JULY 18, 2024/shivam W.P.(C) 10423/2019 Page 5 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:08:24