Heard both sides. The petitioner seeks bail in Pachrukhi P.S. case No.

 24 of 2017 under Section 420 , 409 of the Indian Penal Code. The informant, Swapna Ghosh, alleged that under his

 supervision Bandhan Bank is working in Pachrukhi market. Under

 the supervision of different bank officials, namely, Ranjit Kumar

 Singh, Raju Kumar Singh, Ajay Kumar and Sanjay Kumar audit

 of Pachrukhi branch of Bandhan Bank was made and it was found

 that Shyam Babu Rai, D.B.O., Haresh Rai, D.S.C., Mantu Kumar

 Sah, D.B.O., the petitioner, defalcated a sum of Rs. one crore of

 the Bank. Statement of defalcation is also attached with the copy

 of fard bayan. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 during the course of investigation another enquiry was held and

 the copy of which is attached to the supplementary affidavit. It is

 submitted that on perusal of page 6 of the aforesaid report, it Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.18807 of 2017 (4) dt.29-06-2017 2/2 would appear that name of the petitioner appeared at serial No.4

 and petitioner is said to have defalcated Rs. 5,50,000/- out of

 which Rs. 2,20,795/- was deposited till 10.03.2017. It is submitted

 that petitioner is ready to deposit the entire amount but from

 perusal of the FIR and the enquiry report, it appears that petitioner

 in collusion with others fraudulently showed distribution of loan to

 the customers and either lesser amount was distributed or entire

 amount was taken by the petitioner after changing biometric of the

 borrowers. The petitioner was checker/ maker of DSC and, during

 enquiry, it was found that it was he who used to activate the

 system and thereafter Shyam Babu Rai was using his own

 biometric in committing fraud. Considering the nature of allegation made against the

 petitioner that petitioner in collusion with other bank officials

 defalcated about Rs. one crore, I am not inclined to enlarge the

 petitioner on bail. Accordingly, the same is rejected. If the petitioner deposits the entire amount alleged to

 have been defalcated by him then the petitioner may renew his

 prayer for bail. (Prabhat Kumar Jha, J)
BKS/-