Banking complaints rose 13.55% under the Reserve Bank’s Integrated Ombudsman Scheme between April 1, 2024, and March 31, 2025. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) received 13.34 lakh complaints through the offices of RBI Ombudsman and the Centralised Receipt and Processing Centre, according to the RBI’s latest annual report on the Ombudsman Scheme.

The surge in banking complaints could indicate growing customer dissatisfaction with banking services, but it might also reflect increased awareness and utilization of the ombudsman scheme, as more individuals seek to resolve their complaints. The report reveals that nearly 66% of complaints received in 2024-25 came through the online portal.

Source: RBI, Annual Report of Ombudsman Scheme, 2024-25

Loans and advances topped the list of complaints received by the RBI, with a staggering 86,670 grievances, accounting for 29.25% of the total complaints. This represents a 1.65% increase from the previous year, according to the RBI’s annual report on the ombudsman scheme.

Further, according to the report, credit card complaints saw a significant surge of 20% to 50,811, accounting for 17.15% of the total complaints. On the other hand, mobile and net banking complaints declined 12.74% to 49,951, making up 16.86% of total complaints. Meanwhile, complaints related to opening and operating deposit accounts rose by 7.67% to 49,913, representing 16.84% of total complaints.

Source: RBI, Annual Report of Ombudsman Scheme, 2024-25

The Ministry of Information and Technology (MeitY) has blocked 87 illegal loan apps so far after following the due process, Minister of State for Corporate Affairs Harsh Malhotra informed the Parliament on Monday.

“Regulatory action for inquiry, inspection of books of accounts and investigation under the Companies Act, 2013, is taken from time to time against companies, including the ones indulged in online lending activities through loan apps. Whenever any violation under the Companies Act, 2013, is found on the basis of the above, an appropriate legal action is taken,” the minister said.

This comes amid increasing regulatory scrutiny on Chinese companies, including those hosting loan apps. Last year, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs launched a probe into 665 Chinese loan apps for several non-compliance issues and fraudulent activities, including syphoning off funds. The action was part of India’s broader crackdown on lending apps with purported links to China .

According to the report, complaints against banks dominated the grievances received by the Reserve Bank’s Ombudsman Offices in 2024-25, accounting for 81.53% of total complaints at 2.41 lakh. Non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) followed with 43,864 complaints, representing 14.8% of the total. Within the banking sector, private sector banks accounted for 37.53% of grievances, while public sector banks accounted for 34.80%. This is a reversal of the trend from last year, with complaints against public sector banks decreasing 8.45%, but those against private banks climbing over 10%.

This comes at a time when e-commerce players such as Flipkart and Amazon are also preparing to take aim at India’s banking sector with new credit-based products. Earlier this year, Flipkart received an NBFC licence from the RBI, while Amazon acquired Axio. Reports suggest that Amazon is planning to offer loans to small businesses in India, while Flipkart is readying a buy now, pay later product.

Individuals, including senior citizens, accounted for the largest share of complaints received by the Reserve Bank’s Ombudsman Offices in 2024-25, a trend that was also seen in 2023-24 and 2022-23. The number of complaints from this group rose 0.72% to 2.56 lakh, making up 87.19% of total complaints.

The Reserve Bank’s Ombudsman Offices resolved 2.9 lakh complaints and reported a disposal rate of 93.07%. Of the total grievances resolved, 1.8 lakh were maintainable, accounting for 62.16% of all disposed complaints. About 52% of these maintainable complaints were resolved through mutual settlement, while 43% were rejected by the RBI Ombudsman. The remaining cases were either rejected or disposed of by the passing of awards by the RBI or were withdrawn by the complainants, the report says.

Additionally, the average cost of handling a complaint at the Reserve Bank’s Ombudsman Offices reduced to Rs 1,582 per grievance in FY25 from Rs 1,732 per complaint in FY24.

The report also revealed the geographic distribution of complaints across states and Union Territories, with Chandigarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan emerging as the top five contributors to the complaints at RBI Ombudsman Offices in terms of per lakh accounts (deposit and credit). On the other side of the spectrum, Mizoram, Nagaland, Ladakh, Manipur and Meghalaya saw the least number of complaints during 2024-25.

Data from the RBI showed that internet fraud cost Indian banks and customers over Rs 520 crore in FY25. To counter rising cybercrime, the RBI is reportedly building the Digital Payments Intelligence Platform that would leverage AI to detect and prevent payment fraud in real time. The central bank also plans to deploy its MuleHunter.ai tool in more financial institutions in FY26, which harnesses AI and machine learning to detect mule accounts involved in scams.

This carries significance as the digital payments ecosystem in the country continues to grow, fuelled by growing use of QR codes, UPI and mobile wallets. As per the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), the value of UPI transactions processed in November 2025 crossed Rs 24 lakh crore. While the share of fraud compared to the overall transaction volume remains low, the scale of rising digital payments fraud raises security concerns.

Earlier in October, MediaNama had highlighted how NPCI’s new AI-driven UPI features could pose risks around unauthorised automatic transactions, privacy and profiling and ambiguity around liability.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event