SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Amazon Delivery Scam UPDATE: How to get chargeback when your bank doesn't want to give it to you and employees are trained to lie and deceive 
DATE: 2024-12-31
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hqklkc/amazon_delivery_scam_update_how_to_get_chargeback/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, I went to the police station, and the senior police inspector was on NY rounds, and the duty inspector did what they're trained to do, minimize crime by minimising registering of FIRs. What will they do instead? Ask you to submit a letter, then come to dispatch a few days later, see to whom it has been assigned, talk to them, they'll investigate and then file FIR if found to substantiative. 

But wait, don't you need an FIR to investigate? Idk. I guess this is their workaround. CRPC experts can chime in. I will call senior police inspector tomorrow and then ACP also if needed. 

Then I came back and called ICICI for the chargeback, and OMG, the lies, the lies! I knew it'll happen, but I lost my cool in the first call at the end. Just so much deception. You can tell them the rules, but they won't listen. They'll straight up make up rules. 

So, I called them again, and the first lady was again saying absolutely nonsensical, misinformed stuff, but I got through by telling her I'm recording and I'll be uploading on the internet, so don't lie, don't give misinformation, and she still tried to get me to believe that Visa rules don't apply. Just... unbelievable.

Then was transferred to the dispute team, and I was like, here we go again. Let's see if I get what I should legally get. Dispute is our right!

And again, I tell them the exact section under which dispute is applicable. The first time around, the guy who connected told me that since you received the incorrect parcel first time, we'll accept that, and that's not acceptable condition for accepting a dispute. OMFG! POS LIAR! 

So, I straight up tell him the 13.3 dispute condition this time and what happened, and actually, both conditions are valid in my case. Pick and choose. 

 And well, of course they have to accept! But they're told to lie and mislead. 

This is the situation, we're making our own life tough. We help these corporate companies scam other Indian citizens. We lie to each other to make a daily living. 

So, anyways, here's the audio recording if you want to listen to my beautiful voice. /s

https://youtu.be/1JT8FqCSH2I?si=lklkTVxLTo9GB-Jy

More importantly, when you need your bank to behave, this is Visa India's support section. Download the dispute guidelines.

https://www.visa.co.in/support/small-business/dispute-resolution.html

Good luck!