The application is allowed, subject to all just exceptions. Civil Misc. No. 12624 of 2009 For the reasons stated in the application, the same is allowed

and status report in the form of affidavit taken on record. Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 2 Civil Misc. No. 6015 of 2009 The application is allowed, subject to all just exceptions. Civil Misc. No. 6016 of 2009 For the reasons stated in the application, the same is allowed

and status report in the form of affidavit taken on record.

Civil Writ Petition No.18956 of 2006

 By this common order, Civil Writ Petition No. 18956 of 2006

titled as 'M/s Manoj Kumar Sanjay Kumar v. Commissioner of Customs

and another' and Civil Writ Petition No. 1 of 2007 titled as 'M/s Manoj

Kumar Sanjay Kumar v. Additional Director General (Revenue

Intelligence) and another' will be decided together. Whether an importer, who is alleged to be guilty of mis-

declaration of description of goods and under-valuing the invoices, can

invoke extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court by filing a writ petition with a

prayer that the authorities be directed to reimburse the cost of detention

and demurrage charges during the pendency of proceedings before the

appropriate authority, which has issued a show-cause-notice for imposing

duty, penalty and confiscation of goods, especially when goods have been

provisionally released, is a question which has been raised in the present

writ petition. Petitioner firm, a proprietorship concern, is engaged in the

business of importing mixed fatty acid and mixed acid oil from Malaysia.

According to the petitioner, the product in question is a bi-product of oleo

chemical plant and from last one year, petitioner has been active in import

of the product. This writ petition was filed with a prayer that a writ in the

nature of mandamus be issued directing the respondents, i.e. the

Commissioner of Customs, Inland Container Division (ICD), Tughlakabad,
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 3

New Delhi and the Director General of Revenue Intelligence, New Delhi to

immediately release goods imported by the petitioner, which were

detained at Inland Container Division, Tughlakabad (hereinafter referred

to as, 'ICD Tughlakabad'). The grievance of the petitioner is that in terms of section 46 of

the Customs Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as, 'the Act'), petitioner

submitted bills of entry seeking clearance of goods for home consumption,

but the clearance of the goods was not granted as required under Section

47 of the Act. The case of the petitioner is that in October and November,

2006, 32 containers of the above said product were imported. 29

containers were of 'mixed acid oil', whereas 3 containers were of 'mixed

fatty acid'. Out of the 29 containers of mixed acid oil, in the bills of entry

filed, petitioner had declared value as 185 dollars per MT pertaining to 24

containers and for the rest of 5 containers, the value declared in the bills

of entry was 170 dollars per MT. Whereas, qua 3 containers of mixed fatty

acid, the value declared was 210 dollars per MT. Despite various visits of

agent of the petitioner for release of the goods, the same were not

released and petitioner has averred that on 15th November, 2006, he was

orally informed that clearance of goods can only be permitted by the

Department in case he agrees to pay the duty, taking the assessable

value as 340 US dollars per MT. According to the petitioner, bills of entry

were filed on 13th October, 2006, 28th October, 2006, 3rd November, 2006

and 6th November, 2006 respectively. The petitioner has further stated that

non-release of 32 articles has fastened him with charges of Rs.2.00 lakh

per day towards detention and demurrage. According to the petitioner, to

avoid this cost towards demurrage, he agreed to pay the duty on higher

rate of value and in compliance with the oral demand of the Department,

petitioner had addressed a letter (Annexure P-1). It will apposite here to
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 4

reproduce the contents of the letter addressed by the petitioner to the

Additional Director (DRI), Headquarter, New Delhi: The petitioner has relied upon section 17 of the Act and has

stated that it was incumbent upon the concerned officer to examine, test

and assess the duty without any undue delay. The petitioner has urged

that if section 17 is read in conjunction with section 47 of the Act, goods

being imported were required for home consumption, an order permitting

clearance of the goods ought to have been passed immediately, as

examination of the goods was carried and sample was drawn, especially

when no order regarding detention of seizure of goods was passed by the

competent officer. The case set out by the petitioner is that this Court had earlier

directed the respondents to prescribe the procedure for clearance of

goods expeditiously, so that the importer is saved from losses and does

not incur recurring expenses of detention and demurrage charges. It is

stated that in pursuance of the orders passed by this Court, Chief

Commissioner of Customs on 22nd August, 2006 had issued directions that

goods should be cleared within three days from the date of filing of bills of
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 5

entry. The instructions issued to this effect have been annexed as

Annexure P-2. To fortify this submission, it has been submitted that with

effect from 13th July, 2006, the Government had inserted sub-section (5) to section 17 of the Act to save the importer from delay in clearance of the

goods. It is submitted that it is mandatory for the concerned officer under

sub-section (1), (2) and (5) of section 17 of the Act to pass a speaking

order within 15 days from the date of assessment, whenever there is a

dispute regarding valuation. To support this contention, the petitioner has

also referred to Chapter 16 of the Manual of Central Board of Excise and

Customs and has stated that where the importer has not declared a

correct assessable value, the dispute being purely of valuation, the

imported material should not be detained simply on valuation or

classification disputes. In response to the writ petition, a counter affidavit has been

submitted by the Assistant Director General, DRI, New Delhi, in which he

raised a preliminary objection that the petitioner is not entitled to invoke

territorial jurisdiction of this Court. It has been stated that the goods were

imported at Delhi, bills of entry were filed at Delhi and clearance of goods

was also sought at Delhi and simply because office of the petitioner falls

within the jurisdiction of this Court, this Court cannot assume territorial

jurisdiction. It has further been submitted that the Department of Revenue

Intelligence, on a definite information, is investigating into the scam by

nine firms, which indulge in import of Palm Stearin and Crude Palm Oil in

the guise of mixed acid oil/ mixed fatty oil, which are not freely importable.

It is stated that apart from the mis-declaration in description as per the

preliminary estimates of the Department, there is evasion of duty

amounting to Rs.30-40 crores on the part of the firms, whose conduct is

being scanned. In the counter-affidavit, it is pleaded that palm stearin can
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 6

only be imported, subject to the condition specified in the public notice

issued in this regard and the imported item was a health hazard under the PFA Act . The information so received was forwarded to the Commissioner

of Customs, ICD Tughlakabad, New Delhi on 13th October, 2006. In the

information, it was suggested that the sample of goods be taken and same

be got tested from Port Health Authorities and other Govt./reputed

authorities, including Sri Ram Institute of Science and Technology, New

Delhi. The Department had issued an alert and in pursuance thereof,

Customs authorities had drawn the samples. The panchnama was drawn

at the spot on 22nd November, 2006 and on 23rd November, 2006, Manoj

Kumar, proprietor of the petitioner firm made a voluntary statement under Section 108 of the Act and admitted that the firm had imported Palm Fatty

Acid Distillate by mis-declaring it as Mixed Fatty Acid and similarly

imported Mixed Acid Oil which was a product of Crude Palm Oil and was

under-valued. The petitioner used to submit under-valued invoices,

showing less value. Case of the Department is that Manoj Kumar, proprietor of the

petitioner firm had volunteered to deposit the duty evaded by him and

submitted demand draft of Rs.11,32,385/- towards partial discharge of his

duty liability. Depicting the conduct of the petitioner, respondents would

say that there was no undue delay on the part of the respondents to

release the goods. The Assistant Director of Revenue Intelligence filed an

additional affidavit on 18th January, 2007, in which it was stated that all the

samples drawn from the seized cargo of the petitioner have been got

tested. According to the test report, there was mis-declaration in terms of

description and value pertaining to 29 containers out of 32 containers

imported by the petitioner firm. In respect of remaining 3 containers, there
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 7

was a mis-declaration in terms of value. On 27th December, 2006, the

Commissioner of Customs, ICD Tughlakabad was requested to release

the seized goods provisionally and finally the petitioner had obtained

provisional clearance of all seized goods on 5th January, 2007. We have heard counsel for the parties. It is not disputed that

after completion of the investigation, a show cause notice dated 8th May,

2009 was issued by the Additional Director General, DRI, New Delhi

demanding customs duty amounting to Rs.20,41,899/- along with

confiscation of goods and imposition of penalty. Mr. Jagmohan Bansal appearing for the petitioner, has urged

that there was no justification with the respondent to detain the imported

goods from 13th October, 2006 to 2nd December, 2006. Once the bills of

entry were submitted, immediately goods were to be examined and tested,

and due to inaction on the part of the respondents, petitioner has been

saddled with demurrage charges, which amounts to Rs.2.00 lakh per day,

therefore this Court should order that the demurrage charges be

reimbursed to the petitioner. Learned counsel submitted that the samples

sent by the Department were not tested by the concerned laboratory at the

earliest and therefore, delay has occurred and the petitioner should be

compensated. Mr. Kamal Sehgal appearing for the Department of Revenue

Intelligence has urged that a definite information was received from the

intelligence sources that the petitioner was importing Palm Stearin and

Crude Palm Oil and import of these items was banned. Learned counsel

has further urged that this information was, later proved true. Therefore,

no indulgence should be shown to the petitioner. At this stage, we shall refrain ourselves from adjudging the

merits of the claims and the counter-claims made by the parties to the writ
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 8

petition. Suffice it to say, a show cause notice has been served upon the

petitioner firm. The firm has got ample opportunity to prove its innocence

before the concerned authorities. There is inbuilt mechanism under the

Act for redressal of the grievance of the petitioner firm. In case petitioner

fails to convince the concerned authorities, it has legal remedy to prove its

point. There is no bar to the petitioner to urge before the authorities that

the firm has suffered losses by paying demurrage and detention charges

and it should be compensated. The view formulated by us is in consonance with the

observations made by Hon'ble Apex Court in 'Silbans International v.

Collector of Customs ' 2002 (146) E.L.T. 495 (S.C.). Their Lordships held

as under: However, in case it is held that the conduct of the petitioner

firm is visited by fraud and forgery, by mis-declaration of the goods, in the

bills of entry and in the guise of goods declared, it has indulged in

importing banned substance, petitioner firm will not be entitled to take

advantage of the wrong committed by it. Hence, the prayer made in

present petition is not accepted and the writ petition is dismissed, with no

order as to the costs. Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 9

 There is another aspect of this writ petition, which requires

our attention. This writ petition was filed on 29th November, 2006. A

Coordinate Bench, on 8th December, 2006 took notice of the fact that bills

of entry were filed on 13th October, 2006, no decision was taken, even

though a period of two months had elapsed. The Court, in order to cure

the delay caused, expressed its opinion that mechanism for taking

expeditious decision is to be evolved so that the goods detained do not

deteriorate in value and the importer is not made to pay heavy demurrage

charges. On 13th December, 2006, Ms. Parveen Mahajan, Additional

Director General, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, New Delhi

appeared and this Court recorded the following order: On 21st December, 2006, this Court was assured that in

pursuance of the observations made by this Court, a circular dated 20th

December, 2006 was issued by the Ministry of Finance, Department of
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 10

Revenue (Central Board of Excise and Customs) for expeditious

clearance of imported cargo, where testing of sample is necessary before

clearance. The official present in the Court informed that the delay takes

place on account of shortage of storage space, shortage of equipment in

the laboratory and shortage of manpower. An assurance was also given

that deficiencies will be monitored and necessary remedial measures will

be taken. The Department has submitted various status reports. In the

affidavit dated 18th January, 2007, it was submitted that for upgradation of

Central Revenue Chemical Laboratories and for purchase of necessary

equipment and for testing of various samples, required for different

commodities, a modernization programme has been chalked out and the

Ministry of Finance has granted sanction of Rs.3.57 crores and the

Department, to meet the shortage of manpower, had decided to fill up the

vacancies. On 12th May, 2009, in the status report submitted in the form of

affidavit, the Deputy Director (Revenue Intelligence), New Delhi submitted

that commercial bids received for purchase of equipment have been

scrutinized and a meeting of the Technical Evaluation Committee has

been requisitioned. To meet the shortage of staff, the post of Director

(Revenue Laboratories) has been filled up, two posts of Joint Director

(NFSG) are likely to be filled within a short time and for filling up 12 posts

of Chemical Examiner Grade I on adhoc basis, permission of the Ministry

has been sought. All the thirty promotional posts of Chemical Examiner

Grade II have been filled up on regular basis by way of promotions,

however, two posts of SC category and one post of ST category are lying

vacant for non-eligibility of candidates. Remaining 14 posts of Chemical

Examiner Grade II, to be filled through direct recruitment, have been

advertised and further action is being taken by Union Public Service

Commission. Similarly, 39 posts of Chemical Assistant Grade II, to be
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 11

filled through direct recruitment, have been advertised and recruitment is

likely to be completed. The Department further stated that the time lag for

testing the samples has been reduced. Now, most of the samples are

analyzed and report is submitted within one month, and even in case of

some samples, after testing, the report is submitted within 15 days. There

is a marked improvement in testing and disposal of samples. In the

affidavit dated 27th July, 2009, it was submitted that Technical Evaluation

Committee had recommended acceptance of bids for three items and

administrative approval is awaited. This status report also give details

regarding recruitment and promotion of the staff required for running the

laboratories. We are satisfied that the Department has taken active steps

to reduce the period of testing of the samples and submission of reports,

which was a major factor for causing delay in settlement of the dispute.

Therefore, no further directions are required to be issued. As stated earlier, this writ petition is dismissed without any

order as to the costs. Civil Writ Petition No. 1 of 2007

 This petition was filed on 2nd January, 2007 for release of 32

containers, description of which has been given in Civil Writ Petition No.

18956 of 2006. Counsel for the parties are in agreement that the facts and

law noticed in that writ petition and the decision thereof shall also resolve

the controversy raised in the present petition, especially when the goods

have been released provisionally on 5th January, 2007 as the only relief of

release of goods was sought in this petition and therefore, no separate

orders are required to be passed. Counsel for the petitioner has further

submitted that bank guarantee was furnished by the petitioner and the
 Civil Writ Petitions No. 18956 of 2006 & 1 of 2007 12

same may be encashed, so that petitioner is saved from any further

complications. We permit the petitioner to file an application before the

respondents for encashment of the bank guarantee. In case such an

application is filed, the respondents will encash the bank guarantee,

subject to its adjustment as per procedure prescribed. For the reasons stated above and the fact that the show-

cause notice was served upon the petitioner, we are of the view that no

interference is warranted. Hence, present writ petition is also dismissed. Dismissed. No costs.