1 Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see
 the judgment ? 2 To be referred to the Reporter or not ? 3 Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the
 judgment ? 4 Whether this case involves a substantial question of law as
 to the interpretation of the Constitution of India, 1950 or any
 order made thereunder ? 5 Whether it is to be circulated to the civil judge ? ================================================================
 BHOLABHAI VALJIBHAI PATEL....Appellant(s)
 Versus
 STATE OF GUJARAT & 1....Opponent(s)/Respondent(s)
================================================================
Appearance in Criminal Appeal No.1999 of 2012: Assistant Manager, prepared FCNRs (TDRs) in the fake names of
persons and list of such fictitious persons came to be forwarded to the
officer of State Bank of Indore in the process of getting the loan
sanctioned by accused no.2. It is the case of the prosecution that entries of Page 3 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT six FCNRs bearing Nos.213657, 213656, 213673, 213674, 213672 and
213675 were made in the Index Register of the bank by accused No.1-
Assistant Manager in his own hand-writing and subsequently the entries
were cancelled. It was also revealed further that the applicant-accused
No.2 along with accused No.3, who has been absconding, visited the head
office of State Bank of Indore at Indore, held negotiations for sanction of
loan on the basis of the said FCNRs. The competent highest level of the
State Bank of Indore was persuaded for sanctioning the loan and the loan

came to be sanctioned as per the sanction letter dated 06 th October, 1990.
The sanction was given on condition of placing the FCNRs as collateral
security and the details about the depositors' genuineness, etc., were to be
verified as per Bank's procedure. However, the accused no.2 did not turn
up to receive the disbursement of the loan amount. The FCNRs stated to
have been prepared were never brought forward and the same were stated
to have been cancelled. 5. As against that the submission by the accused are to the effect that
they have not committed any offence inasmuch as, it is not the case that
accused no.2 has not turned up to accept the amount, which is already
sanctioned in favour of his industry, but, in fact, he has conveyed the
bank that he does not want to avail the loan facility. It is submitted that
when accused no.2 could not produce the FCNRs against which he has
requested for the loan and, therefore, when no loan has been accepted by
him, there is no loss of a single rupee to either of the bank and that at the
most it can be said that accused no.2 has though submitted a loan
application, the same was not availed though sanctioned. Therefore, it
does not amount to cheating or offence as alleged by the prosecution. 6. To understand the rival submission, we have to recollect certain Page 4 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT factual details. It is not disputed that firm of accused no.2 has already
obtained loan from State Bank of Indore and they were also guarantor to
some of the loans disbursed by the State Bank of Indore and they have to
repay such loan. It is also not disputed that for repayment of previous
debt and for doing a new business of diamond, the firm of accused no.2
had applied for loan from State Bank of Indore. It is also not disputed fact
that State Bank of Indore has sanctioned loan of approximately Rs.4.5
Crores in favour of the firm of accused no.2, when accused no.2
approached the bank for sanction of such loan against FCNR deposit
receipts aggregating to US $ 22.94 lakhs which are in the name of other
third parties. It is also not disputed that as per the accused no.2, such
FCNRs have been issued by the State Bank of India, NRE Division of
Ahmedabad Branch. The accused no.2 has requested the State Bank of
India to allow advance upto 75% of the FCNR value in Indian rupees
confirming that out of the proposed loan, a part of amount will be
deposited towards the liquidation of the accoutns with the said bank. It is
also not disputed that for the purpose, accused no.2 and one another
Director of his firm had visited the State Bank of Indore and discussed
the issue and accordingly State Bank of Indore has agreed to sanction
such loan. Request for sanction of such demand loan against FCNR
deposit receipts was made by accused no.2 by his letter dated 21.8.1993
pursuant to discussion held on 21.8.1993, in the head office of State Bank
of Indore. Pursuant to such request, State Bank of Indore by their letter of
the same date i.e. 21.8.1993 called upon the accused no.2 to submit
following information/papers to enable them to submit proposal to their
higher authorities for sanctioning the loan:- Thereby, State Bank of Indore has called upon the accused no.2 to
disclosed certain facts in details. There are some other correspondence
between the parties, but which are not of much material at present. In
response to such letter, accused no.2 has vide his letter dated 25.8.1993
conveyed the State Bank of Indore through its Ahmedabad Branch as
under:- "Re: Loan amount FCNR Deposit Receipts. We are in receipt of your letter No.ADV/679 dated 21 st Aug., 1993 on the
 above subject and noted the contents carefully. Hope the above informations will suffice your requirements to process the
 proposal and favour us with your early sanction of loan." 7. Thereby, it becomes clear and obvious that on 25.8.1993, accused
no.2 has conveyed the bank that original FCNR deposit receipts have
been forwarded to the deposit holder overseas along with loan application
forms given by the State Bank of Indore for obtaining their signatures,
and that the parties will forward these documents duly signed directly to
the bank through courier service. The only confirmation is with regard to
the number of FCNR deposit receipts being six and its amount i.e. total
US $ 22,94,316.46. So far as other details of the deposit holders are
concerned, it is conveyed that bank would get it from the deposits itself,
on receiving the same from the party. Some other documents are referred
which are annexed and forwarded with such letter. Therefore, practically,
there is no disclosure by the accused no.2 that which FCNRs are to be
pledged by him for the loan in question or any details about FCNR
receipts including name and details of the holder of such receipts. 8. Whereas, the entire prosecution case rests upon such fact that
accused no.2 has applied for huge loan of approximately Rs.4.5 Crores
and disclosed the details of FCNR, which he could not ultimately produce
for disbursement of the loan. For such disclosure, prosecution case rests
upon only one document, which is at Exh.68. If we peruse Exh.68, it is a
simple list of six FCNRs with name of depositors, receipt numbers, date
of issue and maturity, amount in foreign currency and in Indian rupees
and 75% and 50% of such amount. Such list is typed on a simple paper,
which does not have any other information except such details i.e. neither
letterhead of the firm of the accused no.2 nor on the letterhead of the
bank and most importantly, it is not signed or endorsed by anyone.
Therefore, though it is alleged and said that this list has been provided by Page 7 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT the accused no.2 to the State Bank of Indore as proposed FCNRs against
which loan is prayed for, the fact remains that, as quoted herein above, by
his letter dated 25.8.1993, in fact, accused no.2 has on the contrary
conveyed the bank in writing with his signature on a letter issued by him
on his letterhead that name and details and other facts of the FCNRs
would be known to the bank on receipt of original FCNRs duly signed
and pledged in favour of the bank, which are already forwarded to its
holder, who are residing abroad. Therefore, there is contradictory
evidence so far as disclosure of such details are concerned. 9. In addition to such contradictions, the prosecution has further
committed a blunder by examining two witnesses, one at Exh.104 being
PW-8, namely, Kamleshbhai Babubhai Gajjar and another at Exh.67
being PW-2, namely, Vijayan Krishnan Iyer. Though document at Exh.68
is a single document of one page, both these witnesses are claiming that
they have typed such statement on instructions received from accused
no.2. Therefore, again there is a material contradiction in the prosecution
case itself and there is no clarification whatsoever in any manner after
depositions of two different witnesses when both of them are claiming
that they have typed the statement, which is produced at Exh.68. If we
peruse both these depositions carefully, PW-2 at Exh.67 states that he
was serving as administrative officer with Mahalaxmi Housing and Fin
Stock Pvt.Ltd. From 1989 till 1993 as administrative officer and doing
general administrative work of correspondence, typing etc. It is his say
after referring the document at Exh.68, which was mark 46/3 before his
deposition, with details in such statement viz. name of the depositor, date,
receipt number, date of issue, date of maturity, foreign currency, Indian
currency 75% and 50% in heading that it was typed by him as instructed
by accused no.2 and that such details was provided to him on a rough Page 8 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT page and, thereupon, he typed it by the typewriter of the office and,
thereby, such document was admitted in evidence as Exh.68. It is his say
that he has handed over such statement to accused no.2 and accused no.2
has directed him to provide such statement to one Chhajed in State Bank
of Indore, Relief Road Branch and, thereupon, he provided such
statement to Mr.Chhajed in last week of August, 1993. The witness
confirms that typewriter by which such statement was prepared was not
seized by the C.B.I, though it was checked by them. 10. Whereas, PW-8 at Exh.104, namely, Kamleshbhai Babubhai Gajjar
is also claiming that he has typed such statement on receipt of
information on rough page from Bholabhai - accused no.2. However, he
is referring the order of preparing such statement as that of 1994. He was
serving as a typist with M/s.Mahalaxmi Housing and Fin Stock Pvt.Ltd.
This witness also confirms that document at Exh.68 does not bear the
signature of anyone and he does not remember that when it was typed. He
also confirms that there is no name of any of the firm on such statement
and there is no rubber stamp and, thereby, it is clear that none of the
witnesses have signed such statement, making endorsement that they
have typed it with instructions received from accused no.2 and such
statement does not disclose the name of any firm of the accused no.2.
This witness also confirms that C.B.I has not seized the typewriter from
the office. 11. Therefore, only because these two witnesses, who were serving
with accused no.2 in the year 1993 and 1994, states that, they have typed
such statements on instructions received from accused no.2, it cannot be
said that it was only accused no.2, who has given them such instruction
and that too when the paper on which accused no.2 has given such details Page 9 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT is not produced on record. Even such statement does not bear signature of
any of the witnesses or even accused no.2 or any officer of the accused
no.2 or even the name of firm of accused no.2 and, therefore, it cannot be
said that based upon this evidence alone, guilt of accused no.2 is proved
in disclosing such FCNR to State Bank of Indore for obtaining loan,
when it is alleged that such FCNR was not existing at all. However, it is
also a debatable issued that whether FCNRs were not in existence or that
holder of such FCNRs were not willing to pledge the same in favour of
accused no.2 or that there is a bonafide mistake or error in disclosing
such information. There is reason to say so, because, surprisingly, two
witnesses are coming forward, claiming that they have typed the single
document. Therefore, the question would arise that in fact, who had typed
such document i.e. PW-2 or PW-8 and, therefore, it seems that probably
both of them are not telling the truth because it is clear and certain that if
PW-2 has typed the statement, then, PW-8 is telling the lie and similarly
if PW-8 is telling the truth, then, PW-2 is telling lie. Therefore, there is a
reason to believe that both of them are not telling the truth and such
statement was probably got-up or created for some ulterior motive by
either any of the witness or by somebody else. It is settled legal position
that when evidence is not trustworthy, then, its benefit will go to the
accused rather than the prosecution to extend the benefit of doubt in
favour of the accused. 12. Therefore, there is lacuna in the prosecution case, when they are
solely relying upon the fact that accused no.2 has prayed for loan of
approximately Rs.4.5 Crores against FCNRs and details of that FCNR is
incorrect when it was disclosed by the accused no.2. Even for the sake of
argument, if we believe that list at Exh.68 was disclosed by accused no.2
to the State Bank of Indore though there is no positive evidence to that Page 10 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT effect and so far as allegation of such list is concerned, there is
contradictory evidence, when accused no.2 has categorically conveyed in
writing to the bank by his letter dated 25.8.1993 that original FCNR have
been forwarded to the deposit holder overseas along with loan application
forms for signature and that bank will get it duly signed in its favour
through courier service and that name and address of the deposit holder
can be known to the bank from the deposit receipts itself on receiving the
same from the party; it is clear that accused no.2 has never intended to
disclose any such information before original FCNRs are being pledged
in favour of the bank and, therefore, so far as allegations against accused
no.2 regarding commission of offence as per charge framed against him,
are baseless inasmuch as he has never accepted any amount and he has
never produced any forged document before the State Bank of Indore.
Suffice to say that Exh.68 can never be said to be a forged document,
when it simply discloses certain details. If at all such details are
incorrect , when accused no.2 has not come forward with any such
FCNRs in forged nature, with endorsement of its pledge in favour of
State Bank of India for obtaining loan and when he has refused to avail
the loan, it is surprising confirmation that he has committed all such
offences as alleged and then to convict him. 13. So far as accused no.1 is concerned, we have to scrutinize the
evidence in sequence of witnesses. 14. PW-1 at Exh.64 is Desk Officer of State Bank of Indore, namely,
Anveshbhai Navnitbhai Chhaya. He has been examined to prove
documents at Exhs.65 and 66. It is his say that accused no.1 was working
as Dy.Manager in FCNR desk and his duty was to issue TDR (Term
Deposit Receipt) against foreign currency or Indian currency. Whereas, at Page 11 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT the relevant time between 1993 - 1995, he was Asst.Manager in the same
branch. He produced copy of relevant page of TDR index register of the
branch at Exh.65 and states that xerox copy of page 689 shows that on
16.8.1993, there are two entries in the name of Jagdish R.Amin and Ajay
Amin, which is numbered as 213656 and 213657, but, ultimately, it is
cancelled by scrolling the text and by endorsing cancelled against both of
them. It is his say that his handwriting is of accused no.1. He has
identified the signature of accused no.1 as he was serving with him.
Similarly, he identifies another four entires on page 38 of the register,
which are numbered as 213672 to 213675 and in the name of Bipin
B.Patel, Arvind B.Patel, Sanjay J. Amin and Purshottam G.Patel
respectively and having similar cancellation mark of accused no.1 These
entries are corroborating with the disclosure of such FCNR in Exh.68
and, therefore, both the accused are being tried and convicted as aforesaid
with allegation that accused no.1 has helped the accused no2 to make a
show that such FCNRs are in existence, but when State Bank of Indore
has inquired from State Bank of India about such FCNRs, accused no.1
has cancelled such details from bank's register and accused no.2 has
conveyed the State Bank of Indore that he does not want to obtain the
loan. However, when this witness has been cross-examined, contradictory
statement has come on record inasmuch as the witness admits that the
register also bears handwriting of other bank clerks, which he does not
recognise. He also admits that the document, which is proved through
him at Exhs.64 and 65 does not come in his hand during his regular
course of business in the bank. He also admits that such documents are
never maintained under his observation, supervision and control and,
thereby, he does not know that how such entries are made or cancelled.
He further admits that bank's record is being regularly inspected and
audited by vigilance department of the bank and such documents are Page 12 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT passed through such regular inspection. He also admits that when such
entries have come in existence, there would be corroborating documents
and entries in the bank record and when his statement was recorded, no
such other documents were verified. Even he has not clarified such fact to
the C.B.I. He also admits that the officer, who is incharge of particular
activity would only endorse any such register and instrument. He also
specifically admits that it is true that any such TDR or FCNR may be
cancelled at any point of time without assigning any reason and thereby it
could not be known that how, why and who has cancelled such FDR or
FCNR and that he has not conveyed such fact to the C.B.I when his
statement was recorded. Surprisingly, he was not the incharge of the
documents at the time of investigation and that he has no personal
information at all about the documents and transactions. Whereas
negativating his examination-in-chief and allegations against both the
accused, witness has categorically admitted at last that absence of
particular entry in register may be because of there is an error in
instrument or the amount for such instrument could not be realised in
time. He also admits that if instrument has not reached to the person, who
has to record it in time, then, it cannot be recorded in the register. He also
admits that if there is any objection in the connected document or if there
is any lacuna in any of the document, then also, the entry could not be
made in time in any of the register. He also admits that when there is no
entry about remittance of any amount, it is clear that there was no
payment against such entries, which are cancelled by accused no.1. 15. Therefore, evidence of PW-1 does not confirm commission of any
illegal activity or any offence as alleged against both the accused except
disclosing the procedure of the bank. So far as Exhs.65 and 66 are
concerned, even those pages are exhibited and admitted on record, the Page 13 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT deposition of this witness does not confirm that only because of such
document, it can be said that accused no.1 has issued any forged
document or committed any forgery in any manner whatsoever, even if
entries referred by the witness is made by accused no.1, though even on
that count, deposition of witness is not trustworthy, as per his admissions
recorded herein above, which confirms that he does not have any personal
knowledge and that such document never came across his duty in the
bank. Therefore, deposition of this witness is of no use to confirm the
conviction as already discussed herein above. Deposition of PW-2 at
Exh.67 - Vijayan Krishnan Nair has already been discussed herein above
confirming that either he or PW-8 are telling lie and thereby, practically,
both of them are non-reliable. 16. PW-3 at Exh.75 - Mr.Prakash Hemraj Chhajed is the then
Dy.General Manager of State Bank of Indore. At the relevant time, he
was Branch Manager of Tilak Road Branch in Ahmedabad. He narrated
the story about business transaction between the firms of accused no.2
and his bank. It is his say that borrower i.e. accused no.2 was having the
gist of deposit receipts, which were supposed to be pledged to the bank.
Therefore, this witness nowhere confirms that he has received the FCNR
receipt which can be termed as forged receipt from accused no.2 and to
presume that it was issued by accused no.1 so as to enable the accused
no.2 to get huge loan from the State Bank of Indore. The witness has
confirmed that they have visited the State Bank of India, which has
confirmed that it can consider the loan against such FCNR receipts and
conveyed that, they will communicate to the witness. However, it is the
say of the witness that there was no communication from the State Bank
of India. Thereupon, though State Bank of India has never responded to
the witness or his bank that; if at all the FCNRs are forged; how and why Page 14 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT respondent no.2 has disclosed such fact to the State Bank of Indore. On
the contrary, when the witness, who is officer of State Bank of Indore
states that when he approached the borrower i.e. accused no.2,it was told
to him by accused no.2 that depositors/beneficiaries of such FCNR
deposits are not interested in pledging those receipts and, hence, accused
no.2 does not wish to avail the sanction loan. Thereby, a moot question
arises that when there is a disclosure that deposit holders does not want to
pledge the deposits in favour of accused no.2 and, therefore, when
accused no.2 do not want to avail the sanctioned loan, what offence has
been committed and by whom. 17. The only allegation against both the accused rests only to the effect
that accused no.2 has disclosed the list of proposed FCNR holders, as per
Exh.68 and name and details of FCNRs in Exh.68 tallies with entries
cancelled by the accused no.1 in some of the bank record and, therefore,
there was an attempt to obtain a huge loan and for the purpose, there was
a conspiracy between accused nos.1 and 2. Thereby again the question
would arise that which valuable security has been forged by accused no.2,
if at all there is any forgery. Unfortunately, when it has not been
investigated and not come on record except bare words of I.O about non-
availability of deposit holders, prosecution has failed to prove that such
entries were made with an intention to prepare forged FCNR receipts
against which loan was to be availed. It is to be recollected here that
except the entries in register of the bank, there is no other document
recovered by the investigating officer. Thereby, it is clear that if at all
FCNRs are forged, they are also not recovered and proved and produced
on record. The witness has proved several other documents on record
from Exhs.76 to 94, some of which are communication between different
offices of both the bank and proposal by accused no.2, but thereby it Page 15 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT could not be proved that accused nos.1 and 2 have forged the FCNR
under reference, more particularly when those FCNRs does not come on
record. The documents produced by the accused no.2 to the bank with his
proposal are also included in documents proved by the witness on record,
but it also does not confirm the commission of offence except the
presumption that accused no.2 was in need of financial support,but that
does not mean that even in absence of forged document,it is to be
believed and that too for convicting a person for 10 years that he has
committed forgery and cheating. None of the documents proved by this
witness proves the commission of offence in any manner whatsoever. It is
settled legal position that commission of offence cannot be presumed, but
there must be cogent and reliable evidence to confirm that some offence
has been committed and for convicting a person, there must be a specific
reliable, cogent and undisputed evidence to confirm that particular act has
been committed by particular person. Otherwise, the benefit of doubt
would certainly go in favour of the accused. In the present case, when
there is no disbursement of loan because of denial of availing loan by the
accused no.2 himself, thereby, if at all there is conspiracy or existence of
forged document, when benefit of such document was not availed by
accused, it cannot be said that they are required to be punished for all
such offences and that too by imposing the maximum punishment of 10
years. So far as attempt to commit an offence is concerned, that issue
would be taken care of after discussing the entire evidence. 18. However, this witness has also no option, but to admit in terms of
PW-1 regarding instruction and investigation of bank's record by their
vigilance cell and confirming that their vigilance cell has not investigated
anything in this case. It is also to be noted that if at all there would be any
concluding offence of forgery and cheating, then, it would be with State Page 16 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT Bank of Indore, whom present witness represents, but he confirms that
they have not filed a complaint and he also admits that he does not know
anything about transactions, which are under reference. He also admits
that he has not seen the report of one Mr.K.C.Joshi. Surprisingly, such
report has not come on record. He also admits that no correspondence had
taken place between State Bank of Indore and State Bank of India with
reference to proposal of accused no.2. He has also admitted that in this
case, State Bank of Indore has not lost anything, since bank has not
disbursed the loan amount and that while recording his statement, C.B.I
has not called Mr.Joshi before him, who was probably more aware about
the entire transaction. Therefore, deposition of this witness is also of no
use except proving documents from Exhs.76 to 94 and more particularly,
it does not confirm any cogent evidence to confirm that accused nos.1
and 2 have committed offence as alleged in the chargesheet. 19. PW-4 Harshvardhan Rameshchandra Dave at Exh.95 is the then
A.G.M of State Bank of Indore. He has simply proved Exh.96, a list by
which he has produced two documents before the investigating officer.
Details of such documents is mentioned in Exh.96, which is only a
receipt regarding handing over such document by the witness and taken
over by Jitendra Singh P.I of C.B.I. Such letters are dated 13.9.1994 and
1.10.1993. However, only because such letters are submitted by the
witness to the I.O, and only because the knowledge of the witness
regarding application by the accused no.2 for the loan which was
approved by the Executive Committee of the bank, it is not proving
commission of offence by either of the accused or even conspiracy
between them. On the contrary, this witness also admits that when he
inquired about the progress of the loan, he was told that accused no.2 did
not turn up to avail such loan facility. He identified the communication Page 17 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT between accused no.2 and the bank and between two banks i.e. State
Bank of Indore and State Bank of India. In cross-examination, he admits
that their office has never filed a complaint and no documents were
seized from regional office. He specifically admits that before C.B.I had
inquired, there was no cause for inquiry at their end. 20. This witness has further admitted that he has not seen any
documentary evidence except proposal by the accused no.2 during his
service and, therefore, evidence and deposition of this witness does not
confirm any cogent and reliable evidence against accused so as to
confirm their conviction. The witness has also categorically admitted that
he had never called any officer from Ahmedabad branch to inquire about
the case and that whatever he has deposed before the Court is regarding
procedural aspect of the sanctioning of the loan and nothing more.
Therefore, this witness also does not help the prosecution to confirm
conviction. 21. Therefore, one thing is clear that even if we believe that correction
of certain entries in Exhs.65 and 66 are made by the accused no.1, it
seems that it was during his course of service and his office did not find
any offence or negative thing so as to inquire and to investigate or to file
a complaint. Then, the question certainly arises would be that how and
why C.B.I has come into picture and investigated in such a manner that
only because of list on Exh.68, there is conspiracy between accused nos.1
and 2. 22. PW-5 Bhaskarrao Keshavlal Badheka at Exh.97 is the then Zonal
Manager of State Bank of Indore. There is nothing more than the
disclosure of similar facts as done by the previous witness, in the
evidence by this witness also, since both of them are serving together as Page 18 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT General Manager and Asst.General Manager respectively, except
confirming that accused no.2 has applied for the loan, which was
sanctioned, but, ultimately, accused no.2 has not availed the loan facility.
Rest of the history regarding business transaction between the accused
no.2 and the bank is not material at present, except to recollect that
accused no.2 has not repay the previous loan of approximately Rs.2
Crores to the bank. However, it is an admitted position, but only because
of previous debt, it cannot be presumed that accused no.2 has committed
offence, more particularly when he was not able to submit the FCNR duly
pledged in favour of the bank and, therefore, he has refused to avail the
loan facility. In any case, it is not the case of any of the witness or the
prosecuting agency that forged documents were produced before the
State Bank of Indore for availing the loan. The only disclosure in
evidence is to the effect that details of some FCNR was given, but
thereafter, the accused no.2 has denied to avail the loan. Therefore, in
absence of forged documents, it cannot be said that forgery or cheating
has been resulted only because of disclosure of certain details, which for
any reason, could not be materialised. In cross-examination, this witness
has to admit that he was not the loan sanctioning officer, but as a General
Manager of the bank, he confirms that there was no illegality or
irregularity in sanctioning the loan in favour of accused no.2. In that case,
it is difficult to believe that any offence committed either by accused
nos.1 or 2, when ultimately loan was never availed. The witness further
confirms that sanctioning of loan was as per rules and regulations of the
bank and that he has no occasion to meet accused no.2 or to visit
Ahmedabad branch or to verify the account holder. Witness has also
admitted that the bank has not incurred any financial loss in this case. 23. PW-6 at Exh.98 Prabhudas Chunilal Rajpara, was Manager of State Page 19 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT Bank of India at relevant time and was serving with accused no.1. He
explained the procedure to be followed for issuing FCNR and discloses
the list of register, where relevant entries of such FCNRs are to be made.
The most important admission by this witness during his cross-
examination is to the effect that blank FCNR form remains in joint
custody of Dy.Manager and Accountant, because it is a security of the
bank and, therefore, and though this witness identifies all the entries in
Exhs.62 to 65, though he proves the register at Exhs.99 and 100, evidence
of this witness does not confirm that it was only accused no.1, who has
created any forged FCNR as per list at Exh.68, though this witness
identifies the endorsement of cancellation by accused no.1. When this
witness categorically admits that blank FCNR receipts remains in joint
custody of Dy.Manager and the Accountant, the crucial issue is how and
why Accountant has not been either chargesheeted or even exmained as a
witness in this case, if at all blank FCNR receipts are being misused and
forged so as to make a show that persons whose names are disclosed in so
called forged FCNRs have invested such foreign currency before the
State Bank of India and against which State Bank of Indore is going to
disburse loan of more than Rs.4 Crores. Therefore, only because some
entries are made by accused no.1 in certain register, it does not prove that
accused no.1 has also forged some such FCNRs in favour of some
unknown persons, so as to help the accused no.2. During cross-
examination, witness has to admit that though he was Manager at the
relevant time, his activity and duties and activity and duties of NRI
Accountant are different, though they are in the same department. He has
also admitted that any account holder can cancel his FCNR or FDR at any
point of time without any time limit and that such FDRs are generally
prepared by the clerk and officer would endorse after verification. He
further admits that none of the documents, which are produced on record Page 20 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT bears his signature or endorsement and, therefore, practically, this witness
has no personal knowledge at all. He further admits that none of the
documents were shown to him at the time of recording his statement and
when none of the documents are placed before him during his duty for his
verification, his deposition is irrelevant even though he deposed
everything against accused no.1. The most important admission by the
witness is last last two line, which is relevant. He admits that FDRs were
prepared as per rules and regulations of the bank and that he does not
have any personal knowledge regarding such FDRs. It is surprising to
note that deposition of such witness has been treated for confirming guilt
of both the accused, though there is no iota of evidence against any one of
them regarding commission of offence as alleged. 24. PW-7 Jayantibhai Hemchandbhai Doshi at Exh.102 is the then
Asst. Manager of Security Department in State Bank of India at
Ahmedabad where accused no.1 was Dy.Manager. He also identifies the
handwriting of accused no.1 at Exhs.65 and 66 and states that there are no
corresponding cross entries in registers, which are produced at Exhs.99
and 100. He explained the procedure of registration of FDRs in different
document and confirmed that from the available record, it can be said that
these FDRs under reference were prepared and then cancelled and its
number was pasted in relevant register as per practice, but there is no
cross entry of remittance for any such FDR. In his cross-examination, he
admits that he served in the NRI division only for eight months and his
superior officer was Rajpara. Mr.Rajpara was one of the witness being
PW-6 and his evidence has been discussed herein above, which does not
confirm the commission of offence as alleged. Though he was serving
with accused no.1, then how and why this witness, who is otherwise not
serving with the accused at the relevant time is able to explain everything Page 21 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT so as to confirm that accused no.1 has committed some offence, when he
has categorically admitted in his cross-examination that he does not have
any direct transaction with accused no.1 and he could not do so though he
denies that even for such reasons, he could not identify the signature of
accused no.1. Surprisingly, witness has however admitted that accused
was serving in Accounts department, whereas witness was serving in
Security department. He has also to admit that customer can cancel the
FDR at any time and at that time, due amount is being paid to the
customer by cancelling the FDR and number of such cancelled FDR is
generally pasted in the register. Surprisingly though this witness is not
serving in the department of accused no.1, prosecution has asked him to
explain the entire activity and witness has narrated the same. However,
witness has to admit that none of the register bears his signature or
endorsement and that he has no direct transaction with any of such
registers. He also admits that maintenance of the register is the duty of
the bank clerk. 25. Evidence of PW-8 at Exh.104 - Kamleshbhai Babubhai Gajjar has
already been discussed herein above confirming that either he or PW-2
are telling lie and thereby, practically, both of them are non-reliable. 26. PW-9 at Exh.106 is one Mr.Shailesh Madhavan Nair, who was
serving in Central Excise Office at Ahmedabad. It is his say that C.B.I
has seized one English typewriter of Godrej company and one file from
one office on first floor of Narayan Chambers. However, except saying
that it is the office of the builder. He does not disclose the name of any of
the accused or their firm, though he says that receipt of such search was
given to accused no.2. Thereby, he proves the document at Exh.107 being
search and seizure list, which was signed by him as well as other pancha, Page 22 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT namely, Nazima Sheikh. Whereas as PWs-2 & 8, so-called typists have
stated that typewriter was not seized. However, there is nothing material
in the deposition of this witness, which can confirm that any of the
accused has committed any offence as alleged against them. 27. PW-10 - Bhagwatilal Ganapatsinh Pandya at Exh.110 was the then
Chief General Manager, Financial Control, Corporate Centre of State
Bank of India at Mumbai. It is his case that they have received certain
complaint from NRI customers of his bank to the effect that whenever
such customers have inquired from the bank about status of their FDR,
they were informed that their deposit is no more lying in the bank and,
therefore, such complaints were investigated at their branch level,
wherein he assigned the job of investigation to one of the senior manager
of NRI division, who was conversant with NRI transactions. However,
none of such complaint or the senior manager, who has investigated the
irregularity, if any, has been examined to prove that in fact there is
complaint either against the bank or against the accused no.1, though,
witness said that during such investigation, it was found that accused no.1
had misused the blank FDRs and 2.3 Million dollars were diverted
fraudulently by playing with the records and some FDRs were received
without receiving any amount. It is further alleged that the witness has
learnt that the accused no.2 has applied to State Bank of Indore for
certain facilities based upon fixed deposits of their bank and during the
cross transaction, he could not produce any such FDR since such FDR
was never issued by bank in favour of accused no.2, but numbers printed
in the FDRs were misused and record of the bank was tampered to create
an impression that accused no.2 had some FDRs in State Bank of India,
which as a matter of fact never existed. 28. It is further stated by the witness that having learnt the tampering
with the record and fabrication of FDRs, a detailed investigation was
carried out by the witness himself so as to know that how many such
fabricated transactions have been created and having learnt that some
scam has been committed, it was decided to handover the case to C.B.I. It
is further stated that in exercise of his administrative powers, he then
suspended accused no.1 after going through all records, registers,
materials, relating to such transactions. Surprisingly, after saying so many
things when he was asked about the the investigation, it is his excuse that
since 16 years have lapsed, he do not recollect further. But, he has issued
a sanction to prosecute accused no.1 and proved the same at Exh.111 on
record. Therefore, the first reading of the deposition of such witness,
makes it clear that he simply wants to say his limited story, and though he
has not investigated the issue on his own and if at all some investigation
was done, then, neither its result was disclosed on record nor the person
who has investigated the issue has been examined. Non-examination of
such material witness would certainly result into adverse inference
against the prosecution by extending the benefit of doubt to the accused.
However, during his cross-examination, this witness could not sustain the
allegations levelled by him when he admits that though he was
empowered to call upon the witnesses and though he admits that bank has
received the complaint, he changed his version by saying that "I mean
that there may be complaint in writing or even an oral complaint based
upon the inquiry made by the respective NRI". So, now, witness tries to
escape from his responsibility and liability to produce such complaints of
customer, if at all they are in existence and turned around by saying that
now by lapse of time, he could not say that whether he has received any
such written complaint or not. He also denied to know the procedure to
be adopted and formalities to be observed while dealing with such Page 24 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT complaints of NRI. Witness has also admitted that he has never visited
State Bank of Indore and never called any officer from that bank and
thereby he had never inquired with the State Bank of Indore.
Surprisingly, though all other witnesses are categorically confirming that
there was no monetary loss caused to the bank, this witness has the
audacity to say that such issues needs to be checked from the record.
However, he admits that no such scam has ever been flashed or revealed
during any regular audit of the bank. The witness also admits that he is
not sure that whether he had any occasion to see the duty list of accused
no.1 and it is a matter to be ascertained from the record. In general, this
witness has tried to be smart enough to deny all the questions in cross-
examination, as if he does not know anything. If it is so, his examination-
in-chief could not be relied upon when he does not remember the factual
details of this transaction and, therefore, only because of the deposition of
such witness, it cannot be considered that accused has committed alleged
offence. 29. PW-11 at Exh.132 is Narendrasingh Rajendrasingh Sikh, who was
working with FSL at Hyderabad at relevant time of examining the
documents at Exh.68. However, when muddamal typewriter was not sent
to him for examination, I fail to understand that what would be the
evidentiary value of his report, which is proved by him at Exh.133.
Though he confirms that specimen typing forwarded to him tallies with
the typing of Exh.68. Specimen typing were probably collected while
seizing the typewriter in presence of panchas, but in absence of evidence
to that effect, such piece of evidence cannot be considered as evidence for
confirming conviction of the accused when it is not corroborated with
other cogent and reliable evidence. It is known position that typing by
similar typewriter would be almost same and, therefore, only because of Page 25 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT Exh.68 and specimen of typing forwarded to the witnesses are similar, it
cannot be said that it was typed on the typewriter, which was seized from
the office of accused no.2. However, in any case, the typing of such list in
the office of accused no.2 itself is not sufficient evidence to confirm the
conviction. 30. PW-12 Jitendrasingh Vishwanathsingh is the then Superintendent
of Customs Department, who was working as P.I in C.B.I and who has
investigated the offence. Being investigating officer, he deposed at
Exh.135 perfectly in terms of his investigation and proved certain
documents at Exhs.136 to 141 on record, which are nothing but, FIR
registered by him and other relevant documents and copies of the register
which are already exhibited during evidence of other witnesses. The chief
and cross-examination of I.O is not material, inasmuch as being a
Customs Superintendent and investigating officer of C.B.I, he has
narrated his story in nutshell. However, he has to admit that the case was
based on FCNRs, but unfortunately, such FCNRs are never recovered. He
also admits that neither State Bank of India nor State Bank of Indore has
made any complaint in the case, but the investigation and chargesheet of
this case was initiated from the investigation of one another case being
R.C.no.22 of 1994. He also admits that bank has their vigilance
department and no statement of any vigilance officer of either of the bank
was recorded. He also admits that though loan of Rs.4 Crores has been
sanctioned in favour of accused no.2, the same was not disbursed because
he did not come forward to avail the facility and that he did not produce
the original FCNRs and thereby there was no financial loss caused to
either of the bank. He denied the suggestion that all the six depositors in
whose name the FCNRs were prepared, had deposited the same in the
morning and have encashed the same in the evening. It is his say that he Page 26 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT has not recorded the statement of any such depositor as they were not
found in existence. He has to admit several irregularities in investigation,
which would certainly go in favour of the accused, so as to extend benefit
of doubt in their favour. 31. Thus, none of the witnesses have disclosed any specific details and
information so as to prove that accused nos.1 and 2 have committed any
offence as alleged. 32. Thereby, if we verify the FIR, which is registered as
R.C.42(A)/94/A/ABD on 12.10.1994, it becomes clear that it has been
registered by P.P.Pandey, Superintendent of Police, C.B.I, based upon an
information received from his office that accused no.1 has entered into
criminal conspiracy with accused no.2 with an intention to cheat State
Bank of Indore by issuing six TDRs worth Rs.22.94 Lacs in fake name
without any remittance of money and on strength of these FDRs, accused
no.2 submitted loan application to the State Bank of Indore, Relief Road
branch, Ahmedabad, whereupon loan proposal was proceeded by the
State Bank of Indore and loan of Rs.4.38 Crores was sanctioned against
said TDRs. But on verification of FDRs, when both the accused
apprehended that they would be caught, they decided not to avail the loan
and thereby both of them have committed offence as alleged in the FIR
and chargesheet. Thereby, surprisingly though the FDRs are in US $, the
complaint disclosed it in Indian rupees and, therefore, prima facie it is
clear that even complainant has not bothered to clarify the facts and
details properly. Another glaring contradiction is with reference to date of
FDRs and loan application. It is admitted position that FDRs were
cancelled on 16.8.1993 whereas loan application is submitted on
21.8.1993 and, therefore, it is clear and obvious that on the date of Page 27 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT application, such FDRs were not in existence and, therefore, there is no
scope or reason to create false FDRs. It is also clear and obvious, as
discussed herein above, that in fact by letter dated 21.8.1993, which is
Exh.84, the accused no.2 has categorically conveyed to the bank that they
will receive the original FDR from its holder directly through courier and,
therefore, there is neighter a case nor an evidence to show that there is
any meeting of minds between the accused nos.1 and 2 so as to result into
criminal conspiracy for forging any document or cheating the bank as
alleged. 33. In any case, when loan amount was not availed by accused no.2
and when there is no financial loss to any of the bank, even if there is
commission of any offence, then, it would be limited to attempt for
committing any such offence, which is punishable u/s.511 of the IPC, but
there is no evidence at all which proves beyond reasonable doubt that
accused nos.1 and 2 have entered into criminal conspiracy to forge the
document and thereby to cheat the State Bank of India. It is obvious that
the clerk, who is making the entries has not been examined, and flow of
money between the bank record is not produced. 34. It is submitted by the learned senior counsel for both the accused
that though some of the amount of the FDRs tallies with the amount
disclosed in the list at Exh.68, in fact on verification of entire record, it
becomes clear that several amount does not tally and, therefore, it cannot
be said that FDRs in question are meant for illegal benefit of accused
no.2. It is also submitted that there is no evidence regarding contradiction
of any record, so also there is no record of any pecuniary advantage by
any of the accused. It is further submitted that at the most it can be said
that this is nothing more than preparation even if criminal conspiracy was Page 28 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT designed between the accused. However, at the same time, it is also
submitted that in absence of cogent evidence regarding criminal
conspiracy and in absence of recovery of forged documents, and more
particularly, when accused no.2 has not availed loan facility against the
forged documents, it cannot be said that any of the accused have
committed any offence for which they can be convicted by highest
sentence of 10 years. 35. Learned advocate Mr.R.C.Kodekar for the C.B.I has no option but
to support the impugned judgment by narrating the history and story of
case and referring certain evidence, which confirms the handwriting of
accused no.1. However, only because accused no.1 has made some
endorsement in some register, it cannot be said that it is proved beyond
reasonable doubt to confirm that it was only accused no.1, who has
forged the documents as alleged for the reasons and discussion of the
evidence, as above. 36. Then remains the finding by the Special Judge while convicting the
accused and sentencing them with highest punishment by impugned
judgment. If we peruse the impugned judgment, the trial Court has
discussed the evidence and submission of both the sides in detail.
However, the trial Court could not point out that how and when document
has been forged, when no forged document has come forward and thereby
trial Court also could not explain that how forged document has been
used for getting monetary benefit. It is admitted by the trial Court also
that there was no monetary benefit to any of the accused. Though so-
called forged FDRs are not recovered and proved on record, and though
there is no investigation regarding its holder, surprisingly, the Special
Judge has stated in paragraph 25 of impugned judgment that such FDRs Page 29 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT were in handwriting of accused nos.1 and same were in fake names.
Similarly, though Special Judge has recorded that two witnesses i.e. PW-
2 and PW-8 both are claiming that list at Exh.68 was typed by them on
blank paper as per the instruction of accused no.2, the Special Judge has
compared the evidence of both the witnesses and when one of the witness
says that he does not remember as to when he has typed Exh.68 and when
another witness says that it was typed under the instructions of accused
no.2, the Court believes that much reliance can be placed on the evidence
of PW-2, who has stated that it was typed under the instructions of
accused no.2 and handed over to Shri Chhajed of State Bank of Indore.
Discussion in paragraph 32 of the impugned judgment in this reference is
not digestable and based on such evidence, there cannot be a conviction
and sentence of 10 years in absence of cogent and reliable other evidence. 37. The learned senior counsel for accused had also relied upon the
definition of 'collateral security' and 'valuable security', submitted that
list at Exh.68 could not be said as 'valuable security' and, therefore, it is
mere a information and cannot be treated as valuable security, which can
be treated as forged for getting undue advantage and, therefore, it is
submitted that in absence of forged valuable securities, which are alleged
to be offered for loan, when loan amount is not availed, there is no
concluded offence as alleged. 38. Whereas, Special Judge has placed reliance only upon entries
cancelled by accused no.1 to confirm the commission of offence by both
of them though there is no positive evidence regarding conspiracy and
though cancellation is prior to the application for loan. Thereby, as
submitted by the accused, there is possibility that though FDR holders
have disclosed their details to accused no.2, ultimately, they got it Page 30 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT cancelled from State Bank of India probably without intimating accused
no.2 and, thereby, it cannot be said that offences as alleged are committed
by both the accused. 39. In paragraph 57, the Special Judge has against observed something,
which is not in confirmation of settled legal position, when it is stated
that the initial burden is on the accused to establish by preponderance of
all probabilities that they were falsely implicated. Suffice it to say that it
is initially the burden of the prosecution to prove beyond reasonable
doubt that alleged offences are committed by the accused only, who are
charged under the case, and by none other than them. Thereupon, if at all
accused are able to show that probably they are falsely implicated, then,
there must be a cogent, reliable and confirming evidence regarding
commission of offence by the accused, which may not create any doubt in
any manner. Thereby, if there is a doubt regarding commission of offence
by the accused, then, benefit of doubt is certainly required to be extended
to the accused. 40. Surprisingly, in paragraph 58, again the Special Judge has observed
that it was for the accused to prove the original FCNRs and any
cancellation of entries in the bank register without corresponding entries,
proves that accused no.1 has forged all the accounts. This is nothing, but
presumption of commission of some offence. It is settled legal position
that there cannot be a presumption of commission of some offence. It is
settled legal position that there cannot be a presumption of commission of
offence for convicting the accused, but there must be a cogent and
reliable evidence confirming that accused has committed particular
offence. 41. In view of above discussion, it becomes clear that the evidence on Page 31 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT record does not confirm beyond reasonable doubt that accused has
committed the offences for which they are charged and convicted. 42. It would be appropriate to refer some latest decision as under:- When no such evidence has come on record, and when such
 evidence on record is totally inadequate to come to the conclusion
 that police had hatched criminal conspiracy, conviction of the
 appellant with aid of Section 120B is liable to be set-aside. (2) Whereas, consideration of fraud has been referred in
 following manner in the case of State of A.P. and Anr. Vs.
 T.Suryachandra Rao reported in (2005)6 SCC 149 and the same has
 been reproduced and relied upon in Behari Kunj Sahkari Avas
 Samiti Vs.State of U.P. & Ors.reported in 2008(10) SCALE 551 as
 well as in Rani Aloka Dudhoria Vs. Goutam Dudhoria reported in
 AIR 2010 SC 53. (3) Whereas in A.C.Ananthaswamy Vs. Boraiah reported in
 (2004)8 SCC 588, Supreme Court has categorically laid down that Page 32 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT "in establishing alleged fraud, it must be proved that the
representation made was false to the knowledge of the party making
such representation or that the party could have no reasonable
belief that it was true. Level of proof required in such case was held
to be extremely high." (4) Whereas in Abhayanand Mishra Vs. State of Bihar reported
in AIR 1961 SC 1698, Hon'ble Supreme Court has considered the
attempt to commit an offence in following manner. "The question
whether a certain act amounts to an attempt to commit a particular
offence is a question of fact dependent on the nature of the offence
and the steps necessary to take in order to commit it. No exhaustive
precise definition of what would amount to an attempt to commit an
offence is possible. There is a thin line between the preparation for
and an attempt to commit an offence. Undoubtedly, a culprit first
intends to commit the offence, then makes preparation for
committing it and thereafter attempts to commit the offence. If the
attempt succeeds, he has committed the offence; if it fails due to
reasons beyond his control, he is said to have attempted to commit
the offence. Attempt to commit an offence, therefore, can be said to
begin when the preparations are complete and the culpit
commences to do something with the intention of committing the
offence and which is a step towards the commission of the offence.
The moment he commences to do an act with the necessary
intention, he commences his attempt to commit the offence. A person
commits the offence of attempting to commit a particular offence,
when (i) he intends to commit that particular offence and (ii) he,
having made preparations and with the intention to commit that
offence, does an act towards its commission; such an act need not
be the penultimate act towards the commission of that offence
but must be an act during the course of committing such offence." (5) In AIR 1999 SC 1801 Punjab Communications Ltd. Vs. Union
of India, Hon'ble the Supreme Court has held that there cannot be
any cause of action on the basis of an attempt at fraud which did
not materialise. (6) In AIR 2003 SC 2748 Ram Narayan Popli Vs. CBI the
Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:- 43. A doubt or surmise is not proof of fact. The claim that FCNRs
were forged, is not proved unless such FCNRs are brought and proved on
record or unless all their relevant documents regarding money
transactions are also brought on record and proved. A suspicion that there
might have been conspiracy and fraud, is not proof of conspiracy and
fraud. At all events who should establish fraud and conspiracy? Is it for
the prosecution which alleged fraud and conspiracy by accused and
established those facts? Or is it for the accused to establish that there was
no fraud or conspiracy in respect of the application of loan? The onus is
certainly and clearly on the prosecution, more particularly when there is
no monetary benefit to the accused since accused no.2 has categorically
denied to avail the loan. 44. Though not much relevant in the present case, reference to the case
of Manoj Sharma Vs. State reported in AIR 2008 SC Suppl.1171 with other Page 34 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT judgments relied upon in such judgment may be recollected here because
even after monetary benefit, when accused have repaid the amount which
was otherwise subject matter of the scam and when bank compromised
the dispute by accepting even the lesser amount than the total amount,
Hon'ble the Supreme Court has held that in such cases, it would be
improper to continue with the prosecution. Whereas in the present case,
there is no doubt that there was no monetary benefit to anyone when loan
amount was not disbursed at all. 45. However, the only issue remains is regarding conviction u/s.511 of
the IPC, which deals with punishment for attempting to commit offence.
However, reference of offence in Section 511 of the IPC is for offences,
which are punishable with life or other imprisonment. But, if we check
the illustration, it becomes clear that conviction u/s.511 of the IPC is
mainly for moral guilt rather than injury. 46. Section 511 is a general provision dealing with attempts to commit
offences not made punishable by other specific sections. It makes
punishable all attempts to commit offences punishable with imprisonment
and not only those punishable with death. An attempt is made punishable,
because every attempt, although it falls short of success, must create
alarm, which by itself is an injury, and the moral guilt of the offender is
the same as if he had succeeded. Moral guilt must be united to injury in
order to justify punishment. As the injury is not as great as if the act had
been committed, only half the punishment is awarded. Attempt to commit
an offence can be said to begin when the preparations are complete and
the culprit commences to do something with the intention of committing
the offence and which is a step towards the commission of the offence.
The moment culprit commences to do an act with the necessary intention, Page 35 of 37 R/CR.A/1999/2012 CAV JUDGMENT he commences his attempt to commit the offence. The word "attempt" is
not itself defined, and must, therefore, be taken in its ordinary meaning." 47. It is obvious that there may be concluded act of offence or there
may be attempt, but when there is a conviction for attempt, it is certain
and clear that there is no concluded offence. Thereby, in any case,
impugned judgment is required to be set-aside when it is convicting the
appellants, both for concluded offence and for attempt to commit the
same offence. 48. Therefore, in the present case, if we consider the activity of both
the accused as admitted to commit offence of forgery, then, their
conviction remains only u/s.511 of the IPC, but not in all other sections
for which they are convicted. However, though one half of conviction is
provided u/s.511 of the IPC, considering the facts and circumstances of
the case, it would be appropriate to reduce the conviction for the period
already undergone by both the accused till this judgment. 49. Therefore, the appeals are partly allowed. Thereby the impugned
judgment is modified by acquitting the accused from all the charges
levelled against them except for the offence punishable u/s.511 of the IPC
and reducing the sentence u/s.511 of the IPC for the period already
undergone by them till date. The amount of fine, if any, in deposit, shall
be refunded. Thereby, they are set at liberty forthwith,if not required in
any other case. 50. In view of the order passed in Criminal Appeal No.2000 of 2012,
Criminal Misc.Application No.19827 of 2013 in Criminal Appeal
No.2000 of 2012 does not survive and stands disposed of. (S.G.SHAH, J.)
binoy Page 37 of 37