1. This is a petition filed by the husband who is an Indian Christian under the Indian Divorce Act and under Clause 35 of the Letters Patent for obtaining a decree that his marriage with the respondent be declared null and void. The original petition has been amended pursuant to the order dated April 3, 1974 on April 17, 1974, making allegation that the respondent committed frequent acts of adultery with the co-respondent since December 6, 1970. An additional prayer has been made that in the alternative to the prayer of declaring the marriage null and void, the Court may pass a decree of divorce in favour of the petitioner. Though this was an ex parte matter, after recording the evidence of certain witnesses, my brother Kania J. felt that the petition raises some important questions of law and the Court would require assistance of some advocate and made an order requesting Mrs. Manohar to appear as amicus curiae to assist the Court. After this order, the petitioner has amended the petition and has also prayed for a decree for divorce as mentioned above. It is the case of the petitioner that in April 1968, one V.R. Lond he and one L.W. Bansode of Poona met petitioner's maternal uncle Rev. N.R. Pandit and made representations that respondent was a virgin; that she has passed S.S.C, examination and that she was working as a steno-typist in an office at Bombay. These representations were made to Pandit with a view to suggest that the respondent would be an admirably suitable person as wife for the petitioner. 2. As suggested by the parties, a meeting was arranged on April 28, 1968 in Bombay at the residence of the respondent at Goregaon. It is the petitioner's case that the petitioner was introduced to the respondent and her parents there. The petitioner was accompanied by Pandit and at that meeting, respondent's parents represented to the petitioner that the respondent was a girl of good moral character and a virgin; that she had passed S.S.C. examination and had completed a, Telephone Operator's course and a course in Stenography and that she was employed as a steno-typist with Messrs. Comteck Laboratories, Mahim, Bombay. According to the petitioner, there was a further meeting which took place at Poona at the house of Bansode. At that meeting, the petitioner's mother and Pandit were present and respondent and her parents, Bansode and one Patole were also present. Again the same representations were repeated to Pandit by the respondent and her parents. According to the petitioner, these representations regarding the character and qualifications and respondent's service were all false. According to him, they were fraudulently made, dishonestly concealing- the true facts with a view to deceive the petitioner and to induce the petitioner to marry the respondent. Relying on the said representations and believing them to be true, the petitioner agreed to marry the respondent. After this, the petitioner and the respondent signed the marriage notice form, wherein the petitioner stated that he was a bachelor and the respondent stated that she was a Kumari. The respondent stated in the form that her date of birth was September 4, 1949, which according to the subsequent information received by the petitioner was also a false birth date. The petitioner in the petition has also alleged that the respondent deliberately and fraudulently and with a view to concealing her character which was notorious, avoided publication of her banns in Bombay so that the people of her parish in Bombay may not know that she was getting married and may not raise a lawful impediment to her marriage. It is the case of the petitioner that the respondent instead of mentioning her real name viz. Vijayamala by which she was called from birth and continued to be called, falsely stated her name as Kalpana in the notice of marriage. It is also the case of the petitioner that instead of publishing the banns in the Bombay Church to which the respondent's parents belonged, the banns were published in the Brother Deshpande Memorial Church, Poona, with a view that the respondent's antecedence could not be known. On May 27, 1968, the petitioner and the respondent went through a marriage in the Hume Memorial Church, Ahmednagar. According to the petitioner, this was a pretended marriage. As the marriage was held at Ahmednagar, the petitioner and the respondent spent the wedding night at the residence of the petitioner's maternal uncle, the said Pandit at Ahmednagar. It is the ease of the petitioner that on the same night i.e. the first night of the wedding, when the petitioner and the respondent were alone together, petitioner was surprised to find that the respondent was behaving in a manner of a girl who was well experienced in sexual intercourse. The petitioner found that the respondent was not a virgin. When the petitioner protested, the respondent confessed that she was experienced in sex and she was not in fact a virgin. She also admitted that she had been carrying on with a married man with whom even at that time she was in love. It is the petitioner's allegation that the respondent told him that she never loved the petitioner. But she and her parents deliberately made the efforts of false representations to the petitioner to conceal her past and to induce the petitioner to j her. The petitioner reacted and told the respondent that fraud had been practised upon him and under the circumstances the petitioner would not consider her as his wife and would not have any relations with her. The petitioner told the respondent on that very night that she was free to go wherever she liked or wanted, as the petitioner was not prepared to take her to Pimpri as his wife. 3. The petitioner further states in the petition that the respondent begged of the petitioner not to disgrace her publicly and requested the petitioner to take her to Pimpri for a short time and thereafter to take her back to her parents. The petitioner to keep up the appearance, took the respondent to his quarters at Pimpri for two days, but had no sexual connection with her whatsoever. The petitioner thereafter took the respondent from Pimpri to respondent's parents at Goregaon, Bombay, where after staying the night at Goregaon, the petitioner and the respondent stayed for about six days at the residence of the petitioner's maternal uncle Pandit at Abbott House, Sophia Zuber Road, Byculla, Bombay. But it is the case of the petitioner that he had no sexual intercourse with the respondent during this period. It is further stated in the petition that thereafter from June 1968 to January 25, 1969 the petitioner and the respondent resided together at the petitioner's quarters at Pimpri viz. room No, 8 in quarter No. HB/17, Sindhi Camp, Pimpri, but the petitioner had no sexual relations with the respondent at all. It is further stated in the petition that quarrels broke out between the petitioner and the respondent and ultimately the respondent left the petitioner on or about January 25, 1969 with "the intention of breaking up the pretended marriage and went to the residence of her brother-in-law, Bansode, at Nana Peth, Poona. There are allegations in the petition that when she went away, she took away some ornaments, but they are not relevant for the determination of this petition and I need not go into the details about those allegations. On these allegations, the petitioner wanted this Court to declare that the said marriage between the petitioner and the respondent was null and void. There was correspondence between the legal advisors of the petitioner and the respondent, wherein the petitioner had pointed out all that has been stated above. Besides that, petitioner had filed a criminal complaint under Section 417 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code against the respondent and some of her relations, bearing case No. 324/S of 1971 in the Court of the Presidency Magistrate, Borivli. When the petition was filed, the said criminal complaint was pending, but I am now told that in view of this petition, the criminal complaint has been withdrawn. By amendment, the petitioner has alleged that after he filed this petition for a decree for nullity, in or about the end of October 1973, from one Sudhakar Yadavrao Prabhune, the petitioner came to know that the respondent committed frequent acts of adultery with the co-respondent since December 6, 1970, and as a matter of fact, on December 10, 1970, in the early morning, respondent and the correspondent in the co-respondent's bed room at Madina Manzil were seen together when the wife of the co-respondent was not at home; that the respondent and the co-respondent were also seen together again on December 30, 1970 at Sea View Hotel, Juhu, and the petitioner believed that the respondent had committed adultery and frequent acts of adultery with the co-respondent and has prayed that he is entitled to have his marriage with the respondent dissolved by a decree of divorce on the ground of adultery also. When the petition came up for hearing before Kania J on December 6, 1972, the petitioner examined himself as a witness in support of his petition. He also examined one Nilkanth Rangnath Makasare, a Parish Priest of the Emmanuel Church at Proctor Road. He also examined John Yadav Shirshat, a Pastor of the First Church at Ahmednagar known as the Hume Memorial Church and examined N.R. Pandit. The petitioner also examined one Waman Keshav Wad, Principal of the People's Education Society's Maharashtra High School at Lower Parel, to prove that the date of birth was registered as June 3, 1945 and that the respondent was sent up for S.S.C. examination in March 1963, but she did not get through. The petitioner also examined one Abaji Mahadeo Kale, a store-keeper from Comteck Laboratory to show that the respondent was Miss V.P. Londhe; that her first name was Vijayamala; that there is no entry in the register showing the name as Kalpana as an employee and according to Kale, the respondent was working as a packer in the firm. On December 7, 1972, at the request of the petitioner's counsel, the matter was adjourned to December 20, 1972. Thereafter as mentioned above, the petitioner amended the petition on April 17, 1974 pursuant to the order obtained on April 3, 1974 and by amendment, the petitioner has added Kesharikumar Kashinath Shinde as a co-respondent and has also prayed for a decree for divorce on the ground of adultery. When the matter reached before me on December 6, 1974, Mr. Sethna, counsel for the petitioner applied for permission to lead further evidence as the petition was amended and in order to substantiate the allegations of adultery against the respondent and the co-respondent. The permission having been granted, the petitioner has examined one more witness viz. Sudhakar Yadav Prabhune to substantiate his allegations of adultery against the respondent. 4. It is mainly the case of the petitioner that the petition is under Section 18 of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 for marriage being declared null and void and it is urged that Section 19 provides the grounds on which a decree for nullity can be obtained from the Court. Section 19 mentions four specific grounds and in the last paragraph, it states: 5. The petitioner also relies upon the provisions of dissolution of marriage contained in Section 10 , that the marriage be dissolved on the ground that the respondent, his wife, has since the (solemnization of the marriage been guilty of adultery. Section 7 of the Indian Divorce Act, provides as follow: 6. Mr. Sethna has further submitted that the petitioner has led evidence to show that certain representations were made and those representations were false. He further submits that the evidence discloses that the petitioner who was a believer in Christian religion, had made it clear that he would not have married the respondent unless she was a virgin and a woman of good character. He also submits that the petitioner would not have married the respondent if the representations which were made, were not made, but they were made to induce the petitioner to consent to a marriage. Mr. Sethna submits that there is sufficient evidence to draw an inference that the respondent's parents must have known that their daughter, the respondent, was not bearing good moral character or was not virgin and knowingly made false representations. He further submits that in any event the respondent was present when such representations were made and was keeping silent" when these material and essential conditions of marriage were contemplated and representations were made, and thereby she suppressed the truth which she at least knew and has induced the petitioner to give his consent to the marriage. "When I will discuss the evidence in a little detail, I will express my opinion of the view that I take of the evidence on the question whether the evidence satisfies the requirements: of false representations having been made with the knowledge that they Were false. Mr. Setbna submitted that whatever be my view with regard to the sufficiency of evidence on the record, the main question is whether such false representations inducing consent on essential matters would enable a party to prove that his consent was obtained by fraud and further entitle him to obtain a decree declaring the marriage null and void. In the alternative, Mr. Sethna has submitted that the evidence with regard to the allegations of adultery are proved by examining an independent witness and that evidence has remained unchallenged as the respondent or the co-respondent who have been served with the petition and the amended petition have remained absent in the proceedings and therefore, the petitioner is entitled to a decree for divorce on the ground of adultery. 7. Mrs. Manohar who has been appearing as amicus curiae in this matter, submitted that unless the consent was obtained by such fraud as under Matrimonial law would entitle the petitioner to have the marriage declared invalid or obtain a decree of nullity, the petitioner would not be entitled to a decree. She further submitted that even if such fraud is established, the Court has to consider the conduct of the petitioner and to see whether such right to obtain a decree for nullity is lost to the petitioner by reason of acquiescence, approbation, condonation or waiver. She submitted that fraud under Matrimonial law must be of such a nature that the Court would come to the conclusion that there was no real consent to the marriage and submitted that this happens only in two ways; (1) if there is misunderstanding or mistake regarding the nature of ceremonies of the marriage; and (2) if there is a mistake regarding the identity of the person to whom the other person is married. She submitted further that no amount of mis-representation regarding the quality, status or fortune of the person which might have induced the other side to agree to marry will render the marriage a nullity. She submitted that if a person who has consented, is capable of consenting and he has consented to the marriage, then the marriage must be held to be valid. She has also pointed out according to Clause 42 of the Letters Patent of the Supreme Court in Bombay and Clause 35 of 1865 High Court Establishment Act and under Clause 30 of the Letters Patent 1865, the High Court is exercising the matrimonial jurisdiction. She has submitted that on a correct interpretation of Section 7 of the Indian Divorce Act, what is required by the Courts in India to be followed are rules and principles of English Courts and not the substantive law in England. She submitted that only principles of procedural law and gwasi-substantive law may be interpreted while taking recourse to Section 7 for consideration and further submitted that the new grounds for granting relief cannot be considered as grounds for granting relief in India if they do not form part under the Indian Divorce Act . She has also pointed out certain authorities with regard to the publication of banns, but as Mr. Sethna has not pressed the petition on non-publication of banns resulting into a fraud which would vitiate the consent given by the petitioner, I do not wish to dwell upon that aspect. Commenting upon the evidence, Mrs. Manohar pointed out that there is no allegation either in the petition or in the evidence led by the petitioner that any representations were made by the respondent herself. She further pointed out that with regard to the allegations about the representations made by others, there is neither any averment in the petition nor any statement in evidence to show that the persons making such representations knew that the representations made were false. She submitted that if one were to read, the letters of the girl which the petitioner has obtained from the wife of the co-respondent, it would go to show that the respondent has-kept it concealed about her own affair with the co-respondent from her own parents and other relatives. She further submitted that if one were to look at the conduct of the petitioner subsequent to the marriage, it would be difficult to come to the conclusion that this petitioner would not have given his consent to marry the respondent if representations with regard to her bearing good moral character or regarding her virginity were not made. She submits that these representations are alleged to have been made first by certain relations in Poona to the maternal uncle of the petitioner and then in two meetings by the parents of the respondent on April 28, 1968 and May 12, 1968. She further submits that the marriage of the petitioner and the respondent took place on May 27, 1068; that it is the case of the petitioner that he discovered on the same night that the respondent was not a virgin and not a woman of good moral character; that the respondent, according to the petitioner, confessed this before the petitioner and inspite of that, the petitioner and the respondent stayed together for two days at the petitioner's house at Pimpri and thereafter they stayed together for a day at the house of the respondent's parents; that as stated in the petition, though not stated in the evidence, the petitioner and the respondent stayed for six days at the house of Pandit in Bombay and that between June 1968 and January 1969, the petitioner and the respondent stayed together at Pimpri at the house of the petitioner. She submitted that even though the petitioner has stated on oath that during all these period, he had' no sexual intercourse with the respondent, the fact that the petitioner and the respondent stayed together is indicative that even after knowing that the respondent was not of good moral character or a virtuous virgin, the petitioner continued to stay with her. She pointed out that witness Prabhune who has been examined by the petitioner to establish the allegations of adultery, has also deposed that he had met respondent at the peitioner's house and he knew the respondent as Kalpana and as the wife of the petitioner at Pimpri on August 15, 1968 and thereafter on two more occasions at the same place at Pimpri, Prabhune met the respondent at the petitioner's house on all those occasions and the respondent Kal-pana was residing at the petitioner's place as petitioner's wife. Mrs. Manohar further submitted that if the Court holds that the marriage is void as into, then the principles of condonation will have no application. But if the Court comes to the conclusion that the marriage is voidable at the instance of a party in a case where the party's consent has been obtained by fraud, it is possible for the Court to apply principles analogous to the doctrine of condonation and in view of the conduct of the petitioner which she had pointed out, the Court should refuse to grant any relief to the petitioner. Mrs. Manohar submitted that even otherwise the Court may refuse to grant reliefs to a party if the circumstances show that the petitioner had accepted the marriage inspite of his consent being obtained by fraud. Mrs. Manohar submitted that granting any relief on such a petition which is filed about four years after the marriage on the allegation that on the very night of the marriage the petitioner realised that his consent was obtained by fraud, that he allowed the respondent to stay with him at his own place and even after she went to her parents' place, brought her back to his own place at Pimpri between June 1968 and January, 1969, and declaring the marriage to be void or granting a decree of nullity of marriage would be inequitable and against the public policy to grant relief to such a petitioner. Pointing out certain passages from 'Rayden on Divorce', Mrs. Manohar submitted that normally the doctrine of condonation applies to matrimonial offences which offences have been committed by either spouse subsequent to the marriage. Generally matrimonial" offences are adultery, cruelty or desertion. Even in such cases of matrimonial offences, if the spouse who condones the other party and reinstates the other spouse in the original position, then oh the original cause of action viz., matrimonial offence which might have given some right in favour of the wronged spouse, it is lost to him. She submitted that it is true that if the married couple had sexual relations after condonation, it may help the Court to come to the conclusion that there was reinstatement. But she submitted that it is not a necessary ingredient and unless a statute makes it a necessary ingredient for reinstatement, reinstatement can be inferred from the conduct of the parties to indicate clearly that the "wronged spouse has condoned the other side. She further submitted that it is correct to say that even after reinstatement and condonation, it is always a conditional condonation and on breach of the condition, revival of the old original matrimonial offence takes place in favour of the original "wronged spouse. For the submission's stated above, Mrs. Manohar relied upon 'Rayden on Divorce' paras. 42, 43 and 46, which deal with the subject of condonation, reinstatement and revival of condoned offence. It is observed in para. 42 'Rayden on Divorce', 11th edn., (p. 1136): Mrs. Manohar submitted that according to the principles analogous to those of condonation, if applied in the present ease, the conduct of the petitioner referred to above qua the respondent for a period up to nine months after the marriage, would indicate that the wife was reinstated in the house by the husbandpetitioner after full knowledge about the alleged fraud having been perpetrated on him for obtaining his consent for the marriage. She submitted that even assuming the principles of condonation were not applicable to the present case, it is open to the Court not to grant any relief to the petitioner whose conduct immediately after the knowledge of the fraud and continuously thereafter for nine months qua the wife and not filing any petition for a period of four years, are sufficient for the Court as it would be inequitable and against the public policy to grant relief to such a petitioner. Both Mr. Sethna and Mrs. Manohar have submitted before me that Moss v. Moss [1897] P. 263 is the most important case on the interpretation of the word 'fraud' which appears in the last part of Section 19 of the Indian Divorce Act, though the decision in Moss v. Moss was under the English statute. It is also submitted before me, both by Mr. Sethna and Mrs. Manohar that inspite of the diligent search, they have not come across a single decision either under the canon law or under the statute law of England or under the Indian Christian Marriage Act wherein the Court has considered the question of consent being obtained by misrepresentation or false representation regarding the moral character or virginity of the bride at the time of the agreement to marry by the bridegroom. But Mr. Sethna submitted that Moss v. Moss was a case wherein husband had filed a suit for nullity of marriage on the ground of fraud on the part of the respondent. It was a case where the pregnancy of the bride at the time of the marriage by another man was concealed by the bride from the bridegroom and this fact came to the knowledge of the husband after the marriage on the wife having delivered a child and the husband had filed a suit for a declaration that the marriage was null and void. It is submitted by Mr. Sethna that good moral character or virginity of a bride is an important factor and misrepresentation or false representation or concealment of such a fact constituted a fraud in the cssentialia of the marital relation. Sir F.H. Jeune, President of the Court while considering arguments advanced before him has held (p. 266): 8. Mr. Sethna submitted before me that in the interpretation of Section 7 of the Indian Divorce Act, what the Indian Courts are required to do are to follow the principles and rules on which the Courts in England for the time being act and give reliefs. He submitted that the Legislature contemplated while introducing Section 7 that all the changes which occur in England either by decisions by Court or by legislation should automatically become matters for consideration of Courts in India while disposing of petitions under Indian Divorce Act of 1869. Mr. Setlna submitted that this section was kept not only during the time when the British Regime was ruling India, but even after the passing of the Constitution the section has been, continued and that clearly shows that in the matter of matrimonial disputes between Indian Christians, the Courts in India should follow the principles and rules on which the Court for divorce and matrimonial causes in England for the time being acts and gives relief, Mr. Sethna relying upon D.M. Raju v. S. Janaki [1974] A.I.R. Mys. 61 submitted that in interpreting the word 'fraud' under Section 19 , the Mysore High Court without invoking the aid of Section 7 has held that "the fact that the woman was pregnant at the time of marriage from a man other than the petitioner husband would mean that the consent to marriage was obtained by fraud within the meaning of Section 19 " and a decree of nullity was issued. This decision has followed a previous decision of George v. Jaya [1965] 2 Mys. L.J. 383. No doubt Mrs. Manohar has pointed out that there are observations in this very judgment which show hesitation on the part of the learned Judge in accepting the principle, but it appears that the Court felt that it was bound by the previous decision in George v. Jaya, that the Court granted a decree and pointed out para. 11, wherein it has been observed (p. 63): 9. Mr. Sethna also drew my attention to some of the Indian decisions under Hindu Marriage Act . Mr. Sethna relying upon Aykut v. Aykut submitted that the Calcutta High Court in this decision while considering Section 19 has held that: 10. Mr. Sethna also relied upon American Jurisprudence 2nd, Vol. 52, page 888, 30, 'Fraud'-. A marriage may be held invalid for lack of consent if it was procured or induced by fraud. But not every kind of fraud or misrepresentation will be held to render the marriage defective. Some courts have said that a misrepresentation of a material fact, made with the intention of inducing the other party to enter the marriage relation, and without which he would not have done so, is sufficient to render the marriage voidable. Other courts have said that, to make the marriage voidable, the fraud must be of such a character as to go to the very essence of the marriage contract, and to affect the injured party's free consent to such contract, In determining the nature and kind of fraud that will vitiate a marriage contract, the age and mental condition of the person defrauded are important and, at times, controlling factors. It is further stated that (p. 889): 11. Mr. Sethna had also pointed out authorities of English Courts as well as Indian Courts to the effect that delay in filing petition is not always fatal and the Courts have condoned delay of even six years or as much as twenty-seven years in cases where the petitioner could make out the case that the marriage was void on the grounds mentioned in Section 19 and a decree for nullity has been passed. It is true that there being no provision of any period of limitation tinder the Indian Divorce Act , it is open to the Court to consider petitions filed even after a lapse of four years, but I do not think that in this particular case, delay of four years requires any consideration. As the view that I have taken of the evidence of the petitioner and his witnesses, I think that though principles of condonation may not apply directly, principles analogous to condonation would apply, as according to me, the marriage is only voidable and could be avoided by the petitioner only by filing a petition and establishing that the consent was obtained by fraud. Till such a decree for nullity has been obtained from a Court, the marriage is valid for all purposes and it cannot be said that the marriage was void oh initio. The other ground of non-publication of banns has not been pressed for nor the ground that though she was not a steno-typist it was represented that she was a steno-typist has been pressed for as grounds of making false-representations or misrepresentations vitiating the consent of the husband. As stated before, Mr. Sethna has made it clear that he had relied upon these representations in order to show that the representations with regard to good moral character and virginity were deliberately made to mislead the petitioner and induce him to obtain his consent. Mr. Sethna also submitted before me that the provisions of the Special Marriage Act which are equivalent to the provisions of Indian Divorce Act while defining fraud have clearly stated that the principles applicable to ordinary civil contracts should be applied while construing fraud under the Special Marriage Act . Mr. Sethna has also drawn my attention to the Nullity of Marriage Act, 1971, Sections 2 and 3 . Section 2(c) refers: 12. Coming to the next prayer of the petitioner as per the amended petition, the petitioner relies upon the frequent acts of adultery of the respondent with the co-respondent since December 6, 1970. The petitioner also relies upon the movement of the respondent with the co-respondent on December 10, 1970 and December 30, 1970. These facts are established by independent evidence of witness Prabhune and which evidence is not challenged and therefore, I hold that the petitioner has established that the respondent has been guilty of adultery and the petitioner is entitled to have his marriage dissolved on the ground that his wife has since the solemnization thereof, been guilty of adultery under Section 10 . I have already dealt with that part of the evidence while dealing with the evidence led by the petitioner and I hold that the petitioner is entitled to the relief under Section 10 as prayed for in the alternative prayer and I pass a decree of divorce declaring the said marriage being dissolved on that ground.