OnEMI Technology Solutions Limited, the parent company of digital lending platform Kissht, recently filed its Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), aiming to raise Rs 1,000 crore from a fresh issue of equity shares. The public offering also involves an offer-for-sale (OFS) of 8.88 million equity shares.

Among its shareholders, Ammar Sdn Bhd will be offloading shares worth Rs 20.89 lakh, followed by Vertex Ventures SEA Fund III and Endiya Seed Co-creation Fund, which will be selling shares worth Rs 14.31 lakh and Rs 9.67 lakh, respectively. Further, Vertex Growth Fund Pte. Ltd. and AION Advisory will offload shares worth Rs 12.53 lakh and Rs 2.50 lakh, respectively.

Founded in 2016, Kissht claims to service young and digitally savvy credit-seeking customers. Its services include credit assessment, loan disbursal, and collections.

The DRHP also sheds light on various business features of the company:

The company contends that its net proceeds will be used for the following purposes:

Kissht contended that its transactions and engagements with borrowers having a higher risk of default could leave the business, financial condition, and cash flows susceptible to vulnerability. To explain, the company focuses on young individuals within the mass market segment that may be economically less stable than large corporations. Accordingly, customer default risks, including delay in repayment or principal/interest on loans disbursed, may be common. Despite their data-driven approach to ascertain a borrower’s creditworthiness, these measures don’t necessarily ensure lower delinquency rates. Finally, 98.15% of Kissht’s AUM as of March 31, 2025 comprised unsecured loans, which entail higher levels of credit risks and lower recovery rates when compared to secured loans.

The business acknowledges that its inability to control the level of its Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs) in its portfolio or maintain adequate provisioning coverage could impact its prospects. To explain, an increase in GNPA levels could influence Kissht’s loan portfolio and credit ratings and thereby increase the cost of funds. To put things into context, major banking players in India such as HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, and the State Bank of India (SBI) have GNPA ratios of 1.33%, 1.67%, 1.82% respectively for FY25. Meanwhile, Kissht has a GNPA ratio of 2.89% as of March 31, 2025.

Elsewhere, uncontrollable factors like macro-economic indicators, regulatory hurdles, competition, and customer-specific terms like wilful default and mismanagement could further increase Kissht’s GNPAs.

The digital lending platform’s operations rely heavily on its ability to raise debt and equity from external sources like term loans, working capital facilities, proceeds from loans securitised, etc. This ability to raise funds depends on factors like risk management policies, credit ratings, brand equity, regulatory environment, policy initiatives, etc. Consequently, the inability to meet financial and other obligations during its debt financing arrangements could impact the business, financial condition, cash flows, and prospects of the business.

Kissht utilises mobile operating systems and application marketplaces for a variety of functions like sales, risk management, surveying, fraud detection, and customer service. Any changes in these technological systems could impact the distribution, accessibility, and availability of Kissht’s application or degrade its overall functionality. Additionally, the application could be suspended or barred from marketplaces on grounds of harm to user devices or data. For instance, in February 2023, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) imposed a restriction on the Kissht app under Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000, that was lifted in two days’ time.

Kissht’s NBFC subsidiary is subject to regulatory scrutiny and periodic inspection by the apex bank. Since its incorporation, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in a periodic inspection, observed a deficiency in certain mandated policies, instances of upgradation of non-performing assets to standard accounts, collection-related complaints against recovery agents, and other critiques. However, it did not levy any penalty for these non-compliances.

Notably, RBI has previously rejected Si Creva’s application for prepaid payment instruments (PPIs). For context, in December 2021, the NBFC sought permission to enter into a co-branding arrangement with ICICI Bank for its ‘Buy Now Pay Later’ product. Additionally, Si Creva has been previously classified as a “High Risk Financial Institution’ by the FIU-IND after it failed to submit details of its Principal Officer.

The company acknowledged that volatility in interest rates could impact the company’s net total income. To explain, an increase in interest rates could engender an increase in defaults if customers are unable to shoulder the cost. Alternatively, an increase in the interest rates Kissht pays on its borrowings could also bring it below the competition, which may have access to low-cost funds or lower-cost deposits. For context, the company’s revenue from interest on loans decreased to Rs 994.3 crore in FY25 from Rs 1,211 crore in FY24.

The company acknowledged that it operates in a dynamic and competitive online fintech industry, which renders its prospects unpredictable. The platform contends that its competitors could develop better alliances, have access to better financial & technological resources, longer operating histories, better marketing capabilities, etc. Loss of Kissht’s competitive edge could result in loss of market share, reduced demand for its services, and a decline in operating margins.

When compared with other new-age digital players, in FY24 Kissht’s AUM stood at Rs 2,604 crore, while Moneyview reported an AUM of Rs 12,000 crore, Navi Finserve of Rs 8,527 crore, and KreditBee of Rs 7,644 crore. Further, a listed player like Bajaj Finance had an AUM of Rs 3.30 lakh crore during the same fiscal year.

Kissht utilises software licensed from third parties like AWS, Finbox, and Juspay in its technology infrastructure alongside open source software. Since many such licenses are still open to interpretation in Indian courts, they could be construed in a manner that restricts the company’s ability to service its clients. Further, open source software licenses may require the lending platform to provide its developed software under unfavourable terms or disclose its source code and derivative works for free, which could negatively impact business and financial results.

The company acknowledges that it lacks any material control over the customer’s utilisation of a loan after disbursal. This occurs despite the due diligence process by its credit appraisal and underwriting system and may accordingly impact the repayment capacity of said borrower.

Kissht exposes itself to risk of theft, fraud, misappropriation or unauthorised transaction by employees owing to its dealings with cash collections. Further, the company’s dependence on automated systems to record and process transactions could increase the risk of technical system flaws or employee tampering, making such losses difficult to detect.

The company focuses heavily on branding and marketing activities to uphold and strengthen its brand name and recognition. For instance, Kissht’s marketing expenses stood at Rs 95.7 crore in FY25. However, the business contended that it may not be able to satisfy the marketing strategies befitting the evolving fintech industry owing to a potential lack of cost-effectiveness.

Further, Kissht’s reputation could also be impacted by any security breaches against the platform. For context, the business stores, processes, and generates a substantial quantity of personal, transaction, and demographic data of customers, wherein any failure to adhere to privacy-protecting measures may invite legal proceedings against it. Likewise, breaches of the company’s cybersecurity guardrails could allow unauthorised access to the company’s systems, misappropriation of data, deletion or modification of customer information, and substantial revenue loss.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event