Rajesh Bindal J. 1. Defendant No. 1 is before this court challenging the order dated
21.5.2011, passed by the learned court below, whereby the application filed
by it under Order 7 Rules 10 and 11 CPC for rejection of the plaint, was
dismissed. 2. Briefly, the facts are that respondent No. 1-plaintiff filed a suit
for declaration to the effect that agreement dated 6.11.2007 between the
parties is null and void and is a result of fraud, forgery and consequential
relief of permanent injunction was sought restraining the petitioner from
realising the amount/benefit under the alleged non-existent agreement. The
suit was filed in January, 2009. It is in the aforesaid suit that application for
rejection of the plaint was filed by the petitioner, which was dismissed by
the learned court below. The order has been impugned before this court. 3. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that the
application filed by the petitioner for rejection of the plaint was primarily
under Order 7 Rule 11 (a) and (d) CPC . Firstly, the suit is barred by law
and secondly, the plaint does not disclose a cause of action. He further
submitted that in terms of the provisions of Section 34 of the Securitisation
and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Act, 2002 (for short, 'the 2002 Act') and 18 of the Recovery of
Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (for short, 'the 1993
Act'), the jurisdiction of the civil court is barred. Even if the plea of fraud is
raised, the suit can be tried by Debts Recovery Tribunal (for short, 'the
DRT'). Learned counsel further referred to the pleadings in the plaint in
support of his contention. A bare perusal thereof does not make out a case
of fraud. The primary relief claimed by the plaintiff in the suit is of
injunction, for which there is absolute bar. Respondent No. 1-plaintiff
could file cross-objections before DRT. 4. Elaborating the contentions raised on the issue that the suit is
barred by law, learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that Section 34 of the 2002 Act, in turns, provides that no civil court shall have jurisdiction
to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter which a Debts
Recovery Tribunal or an Appellate Tribunal is empowered to determine.
Secondly, it provides that no injunction shall be granted by any court or any
other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of
any power conferred under the 1993 Act. The submission is that the
aforesaid section is in two parts. First part thereof bars the jurisdiction of
the civil court to entertain any suit and the second is a bar for any court or
other authority to grant injunction. It further provides that injunction cannot
be granted in respect of any action taken or to be taken. Meaning thereby
even if an action is contemplated, still no injunction can be granted by the
court or any other authority. 5. As far as the contention that the suit is barred on account of
non-disclosure of cause of action is concerned, the submission is that Order
6 Rule 4 CPC provides that in all cases where a party relies on
misrepresentation, fraud etc., the particulars of the dates and items if Civil Revision No. 4845 of 2011 [3] necessary have to be stated in the pleadings. In the case in hand, the plea
regarding fraud is totally vague. No date or any particulars have been
furnished. 6. He further submitted that in the cases of fraud, exception has
been carved out by Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd.
and others v. Union of India and others , (2004) 4 SCC 311, otherwise the
jurisdiction of the civil court is barred. On a perusal of the pleadings in the
plaint, the court has to find out at the very initial stage as to whether there is
triable issue of fraud. In the absence thereof, the plaint has to be rejected as
barred by law. Order 7 Rule 11 (a) CPC , which provides for one of the
grounds for rejection of plaint as non-disclosure of cause of action would
mean triable cause of action. He further submitted that as far as reliance on
the judgment of Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. v. Hong Kong &
Shanghai Banking Corporation , 2009(8) SCC 646 is concerned, there the
issue was only with regard to transfer of proceedings from Civil Court to
DRT, the same is not applicable in the facts and circumstances of the case. In support of the arguments in totality, reliance was placed upon Bishundeo
Narain and another v. Seogeni Rai and Jagernath , AIR 1951 SC 280; Varanaseya Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya and another v. Dr. Raj Kishore
Tripathi and another , (1977) 1 SCC 279; I.T.C. Limited v. Debts Recovery
Appellate Tribunal and others , (1998) 2 SCC 70 and State Bank of India,
Bhilwara v. M/s Sharda Spuntex Pvt. Ltd., AIR 2010 Rajasthan 1. 7. On the other hand, learned counsel for respondent No. 1-
plaintiff submitted that in the plaint, fraud had been pleaded with specific
allegations of forgery. The petitioner could raise objection regarding
jurisdiction only in case the agreement is admitted. In the present case, once
the agreement is claimed to be result of fraud, there would be no bar of
jurisdiction of the civil court to try the issue. Such an exception has been
carved out by Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. 's case
(supra). The cross-objections could be filed only if a claim is filed by the
financial institution before the DRT. He further submitted that even though
the bar provided for under Section 34 of the 2002 Act is in two parts, but
still as provided for in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. 's case (supra), the remedy Civil Revision No. 4845 of 2011 [4] against fraud being only in civil court, the same subject-matter cannot be
partly before the civil court and partly before the DRT. The entire claim of
respondent No. 1-plaintiff is based upon the documents, which are alleged
to be a result of fraud. The plaint cannot be rejected partially. Even if the
contention raised by learned counsel for the petitioner is considered to the
effect that injunction cannot be granted by the court, but as the same is
related with the main issue of fraud, the plaint cannot be rejected in part. 8. Referring to the pleadings in the plaint, learned counsel for
respondent No. 1-plaintiff submitted that sufficient details have been
provided for. It could not be more than that as fraud or forgery was not
committed in the presence of respondent No. 1, as everything was done at
his back. Whatever was possible was provided for. Rest would be matter of
evidence. In fact, respondent No. 1 had also filed a criminal complaint in
which the officials of the bank have been summoned, which prima facie
establishes the allegations made by respondent No. 1-plaintiff. In support of
his contentions, reliance was placed upon Firm of Illuri Subbayya Chetty
and sons v. State of A. P., AIR 1964 SC 322; Sudhir G. Angur and others v.
M. Sanjeev and others , 2006(2) RCR (Criminal) 2; Ram Prakash Gupta v.
Rajiv Kumar Gupta and others , ( 2007) 10 SCC 59 Kamala and others v. K.
T. Eshwara Sa and others , 2008(3) RCR (Civil) 199; Bank of India and
another v. Madura Coates Ltd. , 2009(157) DLT 240; M/s Cambridge
Solutions Ltd., Bangalore v. Global Software Ltd. and others , AIR 2009
Madras 74; and Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. 's case (supra). 9. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant
referred record. 10. Before proceeding further to deal with the respective
contentions raised by learned counsel for the parties, it would be appropriate
to refer to the relevant provisions. The same are reproduced as under: 11. Further before the case of the parties is considered on merits,
this court deems it appropriate to refer to the enunciation of law on the
issues, on which contentions have been raised by learned counsel for the
parties. 12. Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. 's case
(supra) dealt with the issue regarding jurisdiction by framing the following
question: It was answered in paragraphs 50 and 51 thereof. An exception
was carved out by Hon'ble the Supreme Court while opining that
jurisdiction of the civil court can be invoked to a limited extent, where for
example the action of the secured creditor is alleged to be fraudulent and
where the claim may be absurd and untenable. 13. In Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. 's case (supra), the issue
under consideration was whether this court can transfer a suit from civil
court to DRT. The answer was in negative. "14. Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides
 that the courts shall have jurisdiction to try all suits of a
 civil nature, excepting suits of which their cognizance is
 either expressly or impliedly barred. 15. It is evident from Sections 17 and 18 of the Debts
 Recovery Act that civil court's jurisdiction is barred only
 in regard to applications by a bank or a financial
 institution for recovery of its debts. The jurisdiction of
 civil courts is not barred in regard to any suit filed by a
 borrower or any other person against a bank for any
 relief.[...] 16. [...]What is significant is that Sections 17 and 18 have not been amended. Jurisdiction has not been
 conferred on the Tribunal, even after amendment, to try
 independent suits or proceedings initiated by borrowers
 or others against banks/financial institutions, nor the
 jurisdiction of civil courts barred in regard to such suits
 or proceedings. 117. The Act , although, was enacted for a specific purpose but
 having regard to the exclusion of jurisdiction expressly
 provided for in Sections 17 and 18 of the Act, it is difficult to
 hold that a civil court's jurisdiction is completely ousted.
 Indisputably the banks and the financial institutions for the
 purpose of enforcement of their claim for a sum below Rs. 10
 lakhs would have to file civil suits before the civil courts. It is
 only for the claims of the banks and the financial institutions
 above the aforementioned sum that they have to approach the
 Debt Recovery Tribunal. It is also without any cavil that the
 banks and the financial institutions, keeping in view the
 provisions of Sections 17 and 18 of the Act, are necessarily
 required to file their claim petitions before the Tribunal. The
 converse is not true. Debtors can file their claims of set off or
 counter-claims only when a claim application is filed and not
 otherwise. Even in a given situation the banks and/or the Civil Revision No. 4845 of 2011 [8] financial institutions can ask the Tribunal to pass an
 appropriate order for getting the claims of set-off or the counter
 claims, determined by a civil court. The Tribunal is not a high
 powered tribunal. It is a one man Tribunal. Unlike some
 Special Acts, as for example Andhra Pradesh Land Grabbing
 (Prohibition) Act, 1982 it does not contain a deeming provision
 that the Tribunal would be deemed to be a civil court. 118. The liabilities and rights of the parties have not been
 created under the Act. Only a new forum has been created. The
 banks and the financial institutions cannot approach the
 Tribunal unless the debt has become due. In such a
 contingency, indisputably a civil suit would lie. There is a
 possibility that the debtor may file preemptive suits and obtain
 orders of injunction, but the same alone, in our opinion, by
 itself cannot be held to be a ground to completely oust the
 jurisdiction of the civil court in the teeth of Section 9 of the
 Code. Recourse to the other provisions of the Code will have
 to be resorted to for redressal of his individual grievances." 14. In Sudhir G. Angur 's case (supra), Hon'ble the Supreme Court
opined that where there are serious allegations of forgery, fraud, diversion
of trust properties, the same cannot be enquired into in a summary manner
and the matter can only be gone into by a court. Application under Order 7
Rule 11 CPC for rejection of plaint on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of
the court was dismissed. 15. In Ram Prakash Gupta 's case (supra), Hon'ble the Supreme
Court opined that while deciding an application under Order 7 Rule 11
CPC , few lines or passage should not be read in isolation and the pleadings
have to be read as a whole to ascertain its true import. 16. In D. Ramachandran v. R. V. Janakiraman and others , (1999) 3
SCC 267, Hon'ble the Supreme Court opined that under Order 7 Rule 11 (a) Civil Revision No. 4845 of 2011 [9] CPC , the court cannot dissect the pleadings into several parts and consider
whether each one of them discloses a cause of action. There cannot be
partial rejection of plaint or petition. 17. In Bishundeo Narain 's case (supra), Hon'ble the Supreme Court
opined that in case of fraud, undue influence and coercion, the parties must
set forth full particulars and the case can be decided on the particulars so
laid. General allegations are insufficient. The aforesaid judgment was
followed in Varanaseya Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya and another 's case
(supra). 18. In I.T.C. Limited 's case (supra), Hon'ble the Supreme Court
opined that a plaint can be rejected under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC even after
framing of issues when the matter is posted for evidence. It was also
considered as to whether real cause of action has been set out in the plaint
or something purely illusory has been made with a view to get out of Order
7 Rule 11 CPC . Clever drafting creating illusions of cause of action are not
permitted in law and a clear right to sue should be shown in the plaint. The
ritual of repeating a word or creation of an illusion in the plaint can
certainly be unravelled and exposed by the court while dealing with an
application under Order 7 Rule 11(a) CPC . Shelter cannot be taken under
the words 'fraud' or 'misrepresentation' used in the plaint. In the aforesaid
case, the plaint was rejected as the plea of fraud was not made out. 19. A perusal of the suit filed by respondent No. 1-plaintiff shows
that following prayer has been made therein: 20. A perusal of the aforesaid prayer shows that firstly the
declaration has been sought to the effect that the alleged agreement dated
6.11.2007 between the parties is a result of fraud, forgery, misrepresentation
and concealment of facts. Second relief sought is for permanent injunction
restraining the bank from realizing the amount/benefits under the alleged
non-existent agreement from respondent No. 1-plaintiff. The amount so
realized/obtained from respondent No. 1-plaintiff under duress, threat and
coercion. 21. It has been pleaded in the plaint that- shifted from the petitioner-bank to Indian Bank,
 Jalandhar on 30.7.2007. * In November, 2007, the bank came out with a proposal
 to the plaintiff suggesting that to hedge their losses in
 the fluctuation of the rates of foreign exchange, they
 may enter into a contract with the bank. * For the purpose, a rough draft of the agreement to be
 arrived at between the parties and a preliminary
 document in the shape of a proposal form was sent,
 which was signed by the authorised signatory of the
 plaintiff-firm. Though, thereafter the bank was required
 to supply a detailed contract, which was to be signed by
 both the parties, but the same was never signed. * Ever since November, 2007, the plaintiff had been
 requesting the bank to supply them copy of the
 agreement, but the request was never acceded to. To the Civil Revision No. 4845 of 2011 [11] surprise of the plaintiff, the bank started acting on the
 alleged agreement. * On account of earlier dealings between the parties, title
 deeds of certain documents were lying with the bank as
 security, which they were required to be returned when
 commercial dealings between the parties ended in July,
 2007, but the same were not returned and under threat,
 the bank had been recovering the amount from the
 plaintiff-firm. * On persistent request of the plaintiff, photo copy of the
 alleged agreement was supplied by the bank on
 5.12.2008 with an ante-dated covering letter dated
 31.1.2008. * The plea of fraud is sought to be substantiated with
 further allegations that though the process for
 negotiation started in November, 2007 but the
 documents bear the date as 30.11.2006. The stamp
 papers were also purchased on 30.11.2006. * None of the partners were present at Mumbai on the
 date the agreement is alleged to have been signed. It
 has not been signed by the authorised signatory. * The alleged agreement/contract dated 6.11.2007 has
 not seen the light of the day despite repeated requests. 22. Though in the plaint to take a plea of fraud, forgery,
misrepresentation etc., it has been stated that business transactions of the
plaintiff-firm were shifted from the petitioner-bank to Indian Bank
Jalandhar on 30.7.2007 and thereafter in November, 2007, the petitioner-
bank came out with a proposal to the plaintiff-firm to enter into a contract to
hedge their losses in the fluctuation of the rates of foreign exchange, they
may enter into a contract with the bank, for which a rough draft was
supplied, which is alleged to be in the form of a proposal form. It is
categorically stated therein that the aforesaid document was signed by the Civil Revision No. 4845 of 2011 [12] authorised signatory of the plaintiff-firm. It is further claimed that thereafter
final agreement was to be supplied and was required to be signed by both
the parties. 23. The statement of account No. 03412320000704 maintained by
the respondent No. 1-plaintiff with the petitioner-bank from 4.10.2006 to
8.7.2009 has been placed on record as Annexure P-26. A perusal of the
aforesaid statement shows that first entry in the account is shown on
31.10.2006 with a credit of ` 51,00,000/- in the account of respondent
No.1-plaintiff with narration as "EPCL Disbursed". On the same day, the
amount was transferred to Civil Lines Branch vide cheque No. 0181026.
Thereafter, on number of occasions, either the amount was credited in the
account of respondent No. 1-plaintiff on account of "EPCL Disbursed" or
deposited by the plaintiff as "Imp. Bill LIQ.", "Exp Bill RSLD", "Export
Bill NEGO", "Export Bill LIQ", "FX Contract CANC Charges",
"Chancellation Charges", "Cash Deposit", "SETT INR OPT". 24. Withdrawals from the account are primarily on account of
funds transferred to some different accounts, "Imp. Bill LIQ", "DDs made
on request", "some inward clearance", "EPCL INT", "EXP Bill COMM",
" CPC L LIQ", "Export Bill NEGO", "cheque issued in the name of different
party", "cheque issued in favour of Employees State Insurance
Corporation", "EPCL LIQ", "cash withdrawal", "FX Contract Stamp
COMM", "INT", "Export Bill RSLD", "EPCL LIQN", "SETT INR OPT". 25. The total credits in the account of respondent No. 1-plaintiff
upto 1.7.2009 are to the tune of ` 11,85,18,866.36, whereas the debits are `
14,44,20,814.82. 26. The contention raised is belied from the statement of the bank
account of respondent No. 1-plaintiff with the petitioner-bank. 27. The documents produced on record as Annexures P3 and P4
dated 18.10.2006 further show that one Memorandum Recording Past
Transaction of Creation of Mortgage by Deposit of Title Deeds was signed
for availing loan facility of ` 5,00,00,000/-. Subsequent thereto, various
transactions continued in the aforesaid bank account, which was maintained Civil Revision No. 4845 of 2011 [13] by the plaintiff-firm with the petitioner-bank. 28. If without there being any understanding between the parties
any account was opened by the bank in the name of the plaintiff-firm and
certain amount was shown to have been credited therein and the stand of the
party is that they had, in fact, not signed any document or contract for the
purpose, none had compelled them for carrying on transactions in that
account by making withdrawals either in cash or by way of cheques,
transferring the amount to other accounts, payments made to various other
private parties or in discharge of their statutory liability etc. In the account,
deposits had been made by the plaintiff-firm on numerous occasions by way
of cheques, DDs, transfer from some other accounts, cash deposits and on
account of export bill negotiation etc. The transactions continued from
October, 2006 till July, 2009. The deposits and withdrawals in the account
continued for almost a period of 3 years but never thought to be objected to
by the plaintiff-firm that there was no agreement. Not only this, the
transactions continued even after it is alleged in the plaint that from
November, 2007 onwards, the firm had been requesting the bank to supply a
copy of the agreement. 29. Considering the aforesaid facts and the law laid down by Hon'ble the Supreme Court in I.T. C. Limited 's case (supra), where it has
been opined that an illusion in the plaint can certainly be unravelled and
exposed by the court while dealing with an application under Order 7 Rule
11 CPC , in my opinion, considering the documents which were admittedly
signed by the respondent and the period and number of transactions in the
account maintained with the petitioner-bank, there is no triable cause of
action to the respondent to file a suit even if the plea of fraud is to be
considered. 30. As the plea of fraud being the only exception carved out by
Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. 's case (supra) and the
same being not prima facie made out in this case, the plaint deserves to be
rejected. 31. Accordingly, the impugned order passed by the learned court
below is set aside and the application for rejection of plaint filed by the
petitioner before the court below is allowed. 32. The petition stands disposed of. (Rajesh Bindal)
 Judge
June 01, 2012
mk