23.03.2023
Item No.6
Court No.13. AB
 WPA No. 28839 of 2022

 Dr. Keya Dey
 Vs
 The State of West Bengal & Others

 Mr. A. Mukherjee,
 Mr. A. Pradhan ...for the Petitioner.

 Mr. Debasish Ghosh,
 Ms. A. P. Moulick ...for the State.

 Supplementary Affidavit filed in Court today be

 kept on record. The writ petitioner, with the leave of this Court,

 is personally allowed to make further submissions. The Investigating Officer of the Bidhannagar

 Cyber Crime Police Station has filed a report, which is

 kept on record. It appear that M/s Hotmail has replied back to

 the police stating that the petitioner's email id has not

 been hacked. Google and WhatsApp are yet to send a

 reply. The matter shall be pursued aggressively with

 the two organizations. The parent organization of M/s

 Google is META. The petitioner submits that she has been

 informed by her former colleague at the CBI that her

 email was hacked repeatedly over a period of time. The

 particular Officer of the CBI is located at IT Head, CBI

 Office at Kolkata, CGO Complex, 2nd Avenue, DF

 Block, Sector - I, Bidhannagar, Kolkata and IT, 6 th 2 Floor, Lodhi Road, Flot No.5B, Jawharlal Nehru

Stadium Marg, CGO Complex, New Delhi - 110003. The petitioner further names three persons

working in Bandhan Bank Limited who are responsible

for hacking into the email id of their employees. The

petitioner was one such employee. The petitioner,

apart from the hacking incident, says that whenever

she seeks to apply for a job, negative reports are sent

to the prospective employers. She submits that she is

being stalked. The petitioner shall visit the Investigating

Officer, and provide all necessary details and all

evidence in her possession and the names of all

persons likely to have been involved. The Investigating Officer shall be free to contact

the CBI, for ascertaining the veracity of the facts

mentioned by the petitioner. The CBI is requested to

cooperate with the Investigating Officer. The petitioner

shall provide a detailed written communication to the

Investigating Officer. She will meet him tomorrow

(24.3.2023) at 2 p.m. at the Cyber Crime Police

Station, Bidhannagar. List the matter two weeks hence on 6.4.2023.

 All parties are directed to act on a server copy of

this order duly downloaded from the official website of

this Court. (Rajasekhar Mantha, J.) 3