1. Ranjit Kumar Nayak 2. Awadhesh Kumar Ravidas @ Bablu Kumar .... .... Petitioners
 Versus
 The State of Jharkhand .... .... Opp. Party ----- CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE GAUTAM KUMAR CHOUDHARY ----- For the Petitioners : Mr. Awnish Shankar, Advocate
 For the State : Mr. Shailendra Kumar Tiwari, A.P.P. ----- Oral Order
 02/Dated: 11.07.2022
 The anticipatory bail application filed on behalf of petitioners,
 namely, Ranjit Kumar Nayak and Awadhesh Kumar Ravidas @ Bablu Kumar,
 who are apprehending their arrest in connection with Korrah PS Case No. 97 of
 2021 for the offence registered under Sections 384 , 420 , 467 , 468 and 471 of
 the Indian Penal Code and Section 66C / 67 of the Information Technology Act,
 pending in the Court of learned A.C.J.M., Hazaribag is pressed into motion. Heard the parties. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioners that the main
 allegation against them is that they were engaged in illegal business of
 sextortion by creating a fake account on SKOKA by using fake ID and SIM. It is
 further submitted that the entire FIR does not disclose who had been cheated on
 account of said illegal business and under this circumstances the offence will not
 be made out. The learned APP has opposed the prayer for anticipatory bail.
 Considering the submissions of the learned counsels and the facts as
 discussed above, the anticipatory bail application is allowed. Hence, in the event
 of their arrest or surrender within a period of two weeks from the date of this
 order, the petitioners named above shall be released on bail on furnishing bail
 bond of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand) each with two sureties of
 the like amount each to the satisfaction of learned Court below, subject to the
 conditions laid down under section 438 (2) Cr. P.C.
 The petitioners will cooperate in the investigation and will appear on
 notice under Section 41A of Cr.P.C and comply with the condition as laid down
 under Section 438(2) of the Cr.P.C. (Gautam Kumar Choudhary, J.)
Madhav/-