1. By this order, I shall dispose of OMP No.790/2012 filed by the
petitioner assailing the impugned order dated 20th August, 2011 passed by
the Arbitral Tribunal by preferring an appeal under Section 37(2) of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the „Act‟). 2. The brief facts of the case are that the petitioner and the respondent
entered into a contract agreement dated 5th January, 2004 for the widening/
four laning and strengthening of the existing 2 lane carriageway of NH-47,
including the bridges from Vytilla to Aroor Junction, totaling a distance of
348.382 kms to 358.750 kms of Nh-47 in the state of Kerala. 3. The work under the contract commenced on 9th February, 2004 with OMP No.790/2012 Page 1 of 47 the completion date scheduled on 8th August, 2006. The contract price of the
project was Rs. 79.52 crores. The project could not be completed timely and
both the parties claimed that there are breach of obligations on either side.
Thereafter, the respondent / claimant before the tribunal vide its letter dated
16th June, 2006 requested for extension of time (EOT) upto 31st July, 2007
for completion of the project. In reply to the same, the petitioner replied by
stating that the respondent had not submitted any notice regarding the events
of compensation and that the details of the revised target program need to be
submitted by the claimant in order for the respondent to process the EOT
application. The respondent further replied to the said letter on 12th July,
2006 and stated that the updated program had already been submitted by it
in March 2005 for the balance works and also furnished all the details of the
earlier correspondences to the petitioner. 4. That vide letter dated 7th August, 2006, the petitioner granted the
extension of time up to 8th November, 2006 stating that the EOT application
of the respondent was under process. Despite several communications
between the parties, the issue of EOT could not be resolved. However, the
respondent was asked to continue with the execution of works. On 8th
March, 2007, the petitioner in reply to the request of the respondent to
release the payments for the works done, assured that the payments would
be released after verification and implied that the same was not a formal
approval of EOT but, was only a facilitating measure to restart the work. 5. Thereafter, some disputes arose between the parties and consequently,
the respondent moved the competent court seeking directions for
appointment of Dispute Resolution Board (DRB) for resolution of the
disputes, as was provided under the agreement. 6. The notice of termination of the contract was issued by M/s Cochin
Port Road Co. Ltd alleging fundamental breaches of contract by respondent
on 4 counts under clause 59.2(a), 59.2(g), 59.2(h) and item No. 41(a) of the
contract data read with clause 9 of the General Conditions of the Contract
(GCC). The respondent by its reply dated 8th June, 2007 denied the said
allegations of fundamental breaches of contract and contended that it had not
committed any breach and on the contrary alleged acts or omissions on the
part of the petitioner including the omission to constitute DRB even after
acceptance of the letter for the grant of EOT has lead to breaches. The
respondent further alleged that despite several requests from the claimant
regarding the disputes and differences, it was the employer who was in
default and breach of the contract and therefore, it was constrained to invoke
the Arbitration clause i.e. clause 24.2 of the contract in view of the
Employer to nominate DRB. 7. Thereafter, the parties agreed for constitution of DRB and the
claimant filed its statement of the claim before the DRB in April 2008. In
addition to the dispute stated above, the respondent also raised a claim
regarding the fundamental breach of contract conditions by the Employer in
refusing to certify its bill in IPC 18. The claim was filed before the DRB for
pending payments and towards loss and damages totaling to a value of Rs.
119.29 crores. 8. The petitioner submitted its reply to the statement of claim before the
DRB and prayed for rejection of all the claims of the claimant and sought
the reasonable costs for the losses suffered on account of termination of the
contract for the default/ breaches and frivolous claims. 9. The DRB after hearing the parties gave its recommendations which OMP No.790/2012 Page 3 of 47 can be summarized as under:  Payments which are due but not received shall carry interest rate of
 12% per annum till realization. 10. The respondent feeling aggrieved by the recommendations of DRB to
the extent that the same negates the disputes and claimed raised by it
challenged the same before Arbitral Tribunal as per the procedure contained
in clause 24.1 of the contract. To this effect, the respondent had issued a
letter dated 18th January, 2010 of its intention to appeal against the
recommendations of the DRB to the respondent within 14 days of the receipt
of the DRB recommendation dated 25th September, 2009. 11. Consequent to the aforesaid notice, the Arbitral Tribunal was
constituted. The respondent filed its statement of claim and in reply thereto
the petitioner filed its statement of defence and also raised a counter claim.
In the said statement of defence, the petitioner also raised certain disputes
which as per the respondent in the rejoinder fall outside the purview of
arbitration as the petitioner did not follow the procedure contained in clause
24.1 which mandated the petitioner to issue notice prior to invoking
arbitration which could have entitled the petitioner to arbitrate the said
dispute. 12. After the completion of pleadings, issues were framed out of which
the two issues were framed as preliminary issues. The said issues related to
entitlement of the petitioner to raise the dispute in reply and also the
entitlement of the petitioner to raise the counter claim without following the
scheme of clause 24.1 of the agreement as it provided that the
recommendations of the DRB shall become final unless notice is issued to
challenge the same through arbitration within 14 days of the receipt of the
said recommendations. The said two issues are reproduced hereinafter: 13. The Arbitral Tribunal after hearing the submissions of the parties
returned the finding by passing the impugned order dated 20th August, 2011
holding that the recommendations of DRB have attained finality since the
respondent/ petitioner herein has failed to challenge the same in time, as per
the stipulation of the contract. Therefore, the respondent therein/petitioner
herein is not entitled to challenge the said findings at this stage by raising
the dispute before the tribunal for re-opening of such recommendations of
the DRB. The said finding was given by the Arbitral Tribunal on Issue No.1.
As far as Issue No.2 is concerned, the counsel for the petitioner did not press
for the same and remained contended with the proposal of the tribunal that
the counter claim could not be raised by the petitioner for the first time
before the Arbitral Tribunal. 14. Petitioner after being dissatisfied by the impugned order dated 20th
August, 2011 passed by the Arbitral Tribunal challenged the same before
this court by filing the appeal under Section 37(2) of the Act. The said
appeal was earlier registered as FAO (first appeal against orders) and
thereafter the said appeal was transferred through to the orders of Hon‟ble
Chief justice to the Chief justice designate under the roster bench. 15. The respondent herein had filed its reply to the appeal. After the
completion of pleadings, the matter was set down for hearing. 16. When the matter came up for hearing Mr. Chetan Sharma, learned
Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner made his submissions
which can be outlined as under: In order to substantiate his submissions, Mr. Sharma relied
 upon the judgment passed by this court in the case of National
 Highways Authority of India vs. M/s Backbone Projects Limited
 decided in case of OMP 687/2009 on 6th May, 2011 wherein the
 learned Single Judge of this court considered the similarly worded
 clause in the arbitration agreement wherein petitioner was one of the
 parties and arrived at the conclusion that the said stipulation of 14
 days period under the agreement is unreasonably harsh as it restricts
 the right of the party to arbitrate and as such is directory and not
 mandatory. Mr. Sharma also relied upon the judgments passed by other
 learned Single Judges of this court in the cases of Hindustan
 Construction Corporation vs. Delhi Development Authority ,
 77( 1999) DLT 165, J.K. Anand vs. Delhi Development Authority ,
 2001 (59) DRJ 380 and National Highway Authority of India vs.
 Backbone Projects Limited (supra) 7wherein similar views have been
 taken by the Courts. Mr. Sharma argued that if the prescription in the agreement to
 refer the dispute within 14 days is directory and not mandatory, then
 as a matter of consequence, the Arbitral Tribunal ought to have
 entertained the claims of the petitioner warranting interference from
 this court. b) Mr. Sharma, learned Senior counsel argued that clause 24.2 of the
 agreement is broad enough which may enable the Arbitral Tribunal to
 entertain the challenges to the recommendation of DRB, even if the
 said recommendations have attained finality. c) Mr. Sharma further argued that the learned Arbitral Tribunal ought to
 have entertained the claims of the petitioner in view of clause 24.3 of
 the agreement which also enables the tribunal to hear the claims in the
 form challenges to the recommendations even if said
 recommendations have attained finality. d) Mr. Sharma argued that the procedural laws are always held to be
 handmaiden to justice and not an obstruction to justice. The said view
 is prevalent when it comes to dealing the matters involving the
 procedural laws which seek to curtail the rights of the parties. It has
 been argued that there is no reason why this court should not adopt
 the said approach in the cases involving contractual prescription
 which is also procedural in nature. Therefore, the Arbitral Tribunal
 has erred in not entertaining the claims of the petitioner on the ground
 of the mere technicalities which is by declaring that the petitioner has
 not followed the time period of 14 days to seek reference and thus the
 claim is not arbitrable. e) Lastly, Mr. Sharma argued that this court in the ends of the justice
 should allow the claims of adjudicating by the Arbitral Tribunal. This
 is due to the reason that even the claims of the petitioner and the
 respondent which are pending before the Arbitral Tribunal are inter-
 linked and splitting the claims of the petitioner will cause great
 hardship to the petitioner and result in injustice. 17. In view of the above submissions, Mr. Sharma prayed that the appeal
in the instant matter may be allowed with a direction to the Arbitral Tribunal
to entertain the claims of the petitioner. 18. Per Contra, Mr. Sandeep Sethi, learned Senior counsel appearing on
behalf of the respondents has strongly refuted the contentions of the
petitioner and has made his submissions which can be enumerated as under: Mr. Sethi in order to buttress his submission has also relied
 upon the judgment passed in the case of National Thermal Power vs.
 Siemens Atiengesellschaft (Sag ), 121 (2005) DLT 36 wherein the
 learned Single Judge of this Court has held the decision on the counter
 claims on merits is distinct from the jurisdictional objection and the
 appeal in such a case is not maintainable under Section 37 of the Act. c) Mr. Sethi, learned Senior counsel for the respondent urged that in any
 event the submission that clause 24 of the agreement which provides
 for the time period in order to raise a challenge against the
 recommendation of DRB so as to entitle the party to go for arbitration
 does not violate the public policy. Mr. Sethi argued that there exists a
 distinction between the clauses which provide time limit which in
 effect reduces a limitation period prescribed under law as against the
 clauses which extinguish the remedy itself. It is stated that in the later
 kind of cases, the clauses cannot be held to be against public policy.
 Mr. Sethi submitted in the instant case, the clause 24 provides a OMP No.790/2012 Page 10 of 47 mechanism for issuance of notice to raise a challenge against the
 recommendation of DRB which may entitle the party to go for
 arbitration and failing which the right to arbitrate may itself
 extinguish. The said clause 24 of the agreement as per Mr. Sethi does
 not violate the provisions of law. d) Mr. Sethi replied to the submissions of the petitioner by submitting
 that the clause 24.3 as relied by the petitioner is inapplicable in as
 much as the said clause is applicable where none of the parties have
 raised the challenge by issuing notice. Likewise, it has been argued
 that clause 24.2 is also not applicable as contended by the petitioner
 due to the reason that the said clause nowhere entitles the party to
 refer the dispute to the arbitration even if the recommendations of
 DRB have attained finality. The contention of the petitioner as per
 Mr. Sethi is completely misplaced. e) Mr. Sethi argued that the learned Arbitral Tribunal has rightly ordered
 that in view of failure to comply with the agreed procedure by the
 petitioner, the claims raised by the petitioner before the tribunal fall
 beyond the scope of arbitration. In view of the afore noted submissions, Mr. Sethi submitted
 that the appeal filed by the petitioner is also liable to be dismissed on
 merits as well. 19. I have gone through the appeal filed by the petitioner along with the
documents filed therewith. I have also read over the impugned order passed
by the learned Arbitral Tribunal and have given my careful consideration to
submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the parties at the bar and in
the written submission. I shall now proceed to discuss the various aspects OMP No.790/2012 Page 11 of 47 arising in the instant appeal one by one. 20. The first question which needs an examination is as to whether the
appeal under Section 37 (2) of the Act is maintainable in the case of present
nature. The said question needs consideration as in view of the learned
counsel for the respondent the impugned order is in the form of award which
decides two preliminary issues and thus the same shall be read as decision
on merits rather than an order on the plea of lack of jurisdiction. Therefore, I
deem it appropriate to first consider the relevant provisions under the Act
which are reproduced hereunder: 21. From the conjoint reading of the afore noted provisions, the following
propositions can clearly be discerned: 22. Now, the question which requires further examination is what
constitutes a plea that the Arbitral Tribunal does not have jurisdiction. Does
it also include the plea of the nature that the claims are beyond the scope of
the arbitration and thus barred. Does lack of jurisdiction objection also
include the objection that the claims are not arbitrable and thus falls outside
the purview of the arbitration. I find that the answer to these questions seem
to be in affirmative in view of the settled legal position in the field. 23. The plea that the Arbitral Tribunal "does not have jurisdiction" as
provided under Section 16(2) of the Act has to be given meaning of widest
amplitude and cannot be considered in a narrow sense. The said objection
lack of jurisdiction or does not have jurisdiction is not merely confined to
lack of jurisdiction which is ordinarily understood in the civil law which is OMP No.790/2012 Page 14 of 47 but ofcourse included the same. Additionally, the said wordings plea of does
not having jurisdiction have to be considered in the context of authority of
the arbitrator to entertain the dispute and to rule on his jurisdiction. The said
wordings plea of does not have jurisdiction have immediate nexus with the
law providing and enabling the arbitrator to rule on its jurisdiction as
provided under Section 16 (1) . Thus, the factors affecting the authority of
the arbitrator to hear the matter and other facets of arbitrability or non
arbitrability of the dispute or dispute falling outside the scope of the
agreement are all pleas and objections which are of jurisdictional nature.
Consequently, the questions affecting the arbitrability which would result in
rendering the claims or subject matter presented before the Arbitral Tribunal
as non arbitrable either being barred by law or by falling outside the scope
of the arbitration due bar created by the agreement and thereby taking away
the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal to rule on the said claims would
certainly be included in the "plea of does not have jurisdiction" as
prescribed under Section 16 (2) of the Act. 24. Thus, it cannot be said that for the purposes of raising the plea under Section 16 (2) , the wordings lack of jurisdiction must be used in order to
ascertain whether such plea is actually taken or not. If the plea taken in the
statement of the defence is of the nature which raises a question that the
agreement prescribes a mode and manner in which the claims are to be
considered as arbitrable and beyond the same the claims are not to be
considered by the tribunal or shall be treated as barred is thus a sufficient
objection going into the root of the matter affecting the jurisdiction of the
tribunal to consider and adjudicate the said claim though the word
jurisdiction may not be used specifically in the said plea. 25. I have already examined from the plain reading of Section 16 (2) read
with Section 37 (2) as to what sort of orders are appealable and what kind
of objections can be categorized as jurisdictional in nature. The courts in
India have also rendered consistent view that the pleas that the claims would
fall outside the scope of arbitration is a kind of jurisdictional objection and is
plea under Section 16 (2) and thus the appeal against the said order is
maintainable. 26. In the case of National Institute of Banking Studies and Corporation
Management (NIBSCOM) v. Vij Construction Ltd. , 120 (2005) DLT 563,
the learned Single Judge of this Court while hearing an appeal under Section
37 of the Act of 1996 has held that the plea regarding the dispute falling
outside the scope of arbitration is a plea under Section 16 (2) . In the said
case also, the counter claims were ordered to be rejected on the similar
counts that the said claims were outside the purview of the dispute due to
lack of issuance of prior notice to raise the claim. This can be seen if one
goes through the order passed by the arbitrator in the said case and the facts
narrated by the learned Single Judge in the said case in the following
manner: The contention of Mr. Mahesh K. Chaudhary that the claimant
 had increased the amount of claims, which were filed before the OMP No.790/2012 Page 16 of 47 previous Arbitrator Mr. Pahwa and the claims fled before this
 arbitral Tribunal. It is within my domain and province to decide
 this question as to what is the effect of increasing the amount, if
 Mr. Makesh K. Chaudhary's contention is correct? This point
 shall be decided by me, if raised in the pleadings. In the result, the application is allowed to the extent indicated
 above. The application stands disposed of." 5. The above finding of the learned Arbitrator is primarily based on
 the following findings:- (Emphasis Supplied)" Clearly and plainly, there existed an objection which has been
 raised by the respondents in the rejoinder to the reply wherein the
 petitioner has raised the additional disputes, which have been
 responded by the respondent by contending that the same cannot form
 subject matter of reference due to operation of clause 24 and that the
 recommendation of DRB has attained finality. As such, the
 submission canvassed by the learned Senior counsel Mr. Sethi cannot OMP No.790/2012 Page 22 of 47 be accepted that no such objection has been raised. Once the said objection that the disputes presented by the
 petitioner falls outside the scope of arbitration as the petitioner has no
 entitlement to arbitrate under the agreement existed in the rejoinder to
 the response which is in the nature of the statement of defence to
 additional claims raised by the petitioner, the ruling on the same by
 the Arbitral Tribunal by upholding the said objection and refusal to
 entertain the claims of the petitioner clearly fulfills the provisions of Section 16 (2) of the Act. Therefore, the impugned order clearly
 accepts the plea of Section 16 (2) of the Act. The appeal is therefore
 maintainable under the provisions of Section 37 (2) (a) of the Act. 28. It is now time to examine another submission of learned Senior
counsel for the respondent Mr. Sethi which is that the Arbitral Tribunal has
decided the preliminary issue and as such it is a partial award being decision
on merits which would not fall within the ambit of Section 16 and therefore
the appeal is not maintainable. It has been also been argued that the said
award can be challenged along with the other decision on other issues under Section 34 of the Act. As per Mr. Sethi the instant case is squarely covered
by the judgment passed by the learned Single Judge of this court in NTPC v.
Siemens (supra). I do not find merit in the contention of Mr. Sethi, learned
Senior counsel for the respondent and also find that the judgment of NTPC
is distinguishable for manifold following reasons below: b) Secondly, it would also be wrong to say that the fact that the
 petitioner itself would call it an award would make any difference. I
 find that the impugned order cannot be termed as an award in
 whatsoever manner it is couched. It is well settled principle of law
 that the order cannot be termed as an award unless there are findings
 which are returned on merits of the controversy. In the instant case,
 preliminary issue No. 1 has been decided wherein on the fair reading
 of the clause 24 of the agreement, it has been observed by the tribunal
 that as the petitioner has been unable to raise the dispute timely before
 the tribunal as such not entitle to raise the said disputes and claims
 before the Tribunal by operation of clause 24. The said finding of the
 Arbitral Tribunal is only confined to aspect that the disputes referred
 to it are not arbitrable and cannot be termed as final adjudication of
 the disputes between the parties. Therefore, the mere fact that the said
 impugned order is termed as an award would really not make any
 difference unless in substance , the said decision making is an award
 within the meaning of the Act. c) Thirdly, it is also not correct to say that the said order can be
 challenged under the provisions of Section 34 of the Act. This is due
 to the reason that Section 34 (2) (iv) of the Act only provides a ground
 that the award passed by the Tribunal decides disputes which are not
 falling within the terms of submissions of arbitration or contains
 matters outside the scope of the arbitration. This necessarily implies
 that for a Court seized of the objections under Section 34 of the Act OMP No.790/2012 Page 25 of 47 challenging the award, the said award must contain a decision making
 relating to the matters outside the scope of the arbitration, only then it
 is permissible for the court to entertain the objection under Section 34 on the grounds envisaged under sub-section (2) clause (iv). Thus, the
 permissible extent of entertainment of the objection under Section 34
 (2) (iv) is limited in cases where the Arbitral Tribunal decides the
 matter outside the scope of the arbitration. The said ground under Section 34 (2) (iv) does not extend to the cases where the Arbitral
 Tribunal refuses to its exercise jurisdiction on the subject matter or
 refuses to entertain the claims being outside the purview of
 arbitration. There is no ground under Section 34 which permits such
 enquiry by the Court under the said provision. This also indicates that
 the Act of 1996 is a self contained Code and provides for different
 kind of challenges at different stages of the proceedings. Therefore,
 the order on lack of jurisdiction can aptly be questioned under the
 provisions of Section 37 (2) (a) and not under Section 34 of the Act as
 in the instant case. d) The judgment passed by the learned Single Judge in the case of NTPC
 v. Siemens (supra) is distinguishable from the facts and circumstances
 of the instant case. The said judgment is distinguishable due to
 following reasons: The said submissions of the learned counsel for the respondent and
 decision of the learned Single Judge thereon are reproduced herein
 after: After recording the aforenoted submission of the counsel for
 the respondent in the case of NTPC, learned Single Judge
 proceeds to discuss the observations in the award and then
 arrives at the finding that the award does not confine itself to
 the ruling on lack of jurisdiction but also decides the question
 on merits. In the words of the learned Single Judge, it was
 observed thus: 4.61 What then follows is a series of specific agreements
 clearly recorded as such and thereby settling the disputes which
 then existed. And by paragraph 15 there was express
 confirmation by both parties. 4.62 Paragraph 16 made the agreements subject to approval by
 the NTPC management and as already noted that approval was
 given by the Respondent's letter of 5th May 2000 and
 confirmed by the Claimant by its letter of 10th May 2000. 4.63 A number of objections to the binding nature of the
 Agreement of 6th/7th April, 2000 were taken by the
 Respondent. None of them have nay merit at all. There are no
 particulars pleaded in support of the contention that the
 agreement was procured by deception or by duress. It is plain
 from the terms of the Respondent's letter of 5th May 2000 that
 the Respondent fully intended that the Agreement, which it o
 doubt considered to be to its benefit, would be contractually
 binding. The letter is only explicable on that basis. It is simply
 not open to the Respondent to argue otherwise. 4.64 In those circumstances it is clear that the Claimant's
 argument is right that the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
 eighth, ninth and tenth Counterclaims are caught by the
 Settlement Agreement. There are therefore no disputes capable
 of reference to arbitration. 4.65 As regards the seventh Counterclaim, this is as the
 Respondent rightly alleges, a mere reservation of rights. There
 is no admissible dispute. That leaves the first Counterclaim to
 be considered and as to that it is in the Tribunal's opinion plain,
 that the Claimant's argument is correct. The correspondence
 makes it clear in relation to the original pleading that five
 purchase orders were confirmed and supplied and are therefore
 being complied with, so no dispute can arise. 4.67 In the light of the Tribunal's findings on the nature and
 effect of the Settlement Agreement of 6th /7th April 2000, it is
 unnecessary for the Tribunal to consider any additional
 defenses to the Counterclaims. They are not admissible and no
 capable of being included in this reference to arbitration." The Tribunal has summarized its findings under the heading
 "IV-Determination" - and concluded as under in para 5.7:- 5.7 Accordingly, the Tribunal rules that Claimant's claim is
 admissible, there being no limitation bar. The first
 Counterclaim is not admissible, both in its original form and as
 amended. The second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth and
 ninth Counterclaims which have been the subject of a prior
 binding settlement are not admissible and the seventh
 Counterclaim is not admissible there being no dispute." 25. A careful perusal of the written submissions and above
 observations, discussion and conclusions in the Partial
 Award would show that although to begin with the Arbitral
 Tribunal took the objections of the SAG against the
 counter-claim of NTPC as the jurisdictional issues which it
 had intended to answer as the issues of jurisdiction and
 limitation, but as it would be apparent from the written
 submissions filed on behalf of the parties before the
 Arbitral Tribunal and taken note in the Partial Award, it
 would appear that the Arbitral Tribunal did not limit its OMP No.790/2012 Page 30 of 47 consideration of the question of entertainability,
 maintainability and arbitrability of the counter-claims only
 on the grounds that there were no disputes or they did not
 fall within the term "disputes/differences" and, therefore,
 not capable of the arbitration or that they were beyond the
 terms of arbitral reference or barred by limitation, but also
 the admissibility of the said counter-claims on merits on the
 premises that all claims of the NTPC including the counter-
 claims stood already settled in terms of the MoM dated 6th
 and 7th April, 2000 and no dispute remained pending
 between the parties in terms of Clause 15.0 of the said
 MoM, except in regard to the claim of the SAG for damages
 on account of delay." (Emphasis Supplied)
  From the mere reading of the aforequoted observations of the learned
 Single Judge in the case of NTPC (supra), it is manifest that the
 learned Single Judge in the said case did not entertain the appeal
 under Section 37 (2) as the decision in the said case was in the nature
 of the partial award on merits which was not limited to the aspect of
 decision on the plea of lack of jurisdiction but also rejected the
 counter claims as non- admissible due to the settlement arrived
 between the parties which made the same as decision on merits. The
 decision on merits became the major reason which weighed the mind
 of the learned Single Judge while not entertaining the appeal under Section 37 and rightly so when as the appeal under Section 37 (2) (a) is confined to the acceptance of plea of Section 16 (2) of the Act. The
 said case of NTPC (supra) is therefore clearly distinguishable than the
 instance case. In the instant case, the finding returned by the learned
 Arbitral Tribunal is confined to aspect that the claims submitted by
 the petitioner could not be arbitrated as the recommendations of DRB OMP No.790/2012 Page 31 of 47 have attained finality and the same were not challenged timely. There
 is no adjudication of the claims on merits and findings are returned on
 the basis of the applicability of the clause 24 which as per the
 Tribunal, disentitled the petitioner to raise such disputes. Therefore,
 no situation similar to the case of NTPC (supra) has arisen in the
 instant case where the award is merely confined to declaring the
 disputes of the petitioner as not arbitrable by operation of clause 24
 and does not travel beyond the same on merits as in the case of NTPC (supra).  Secondly, In the case of NTPC (supra), the award was indeed an
 award on merits and that is the reason why the learned Single Judge
 also laid stress on the kind of dispensation rendered in the form of
 partial award in the said case. In the facts and circumstances of
 NTPC‟s case, it was correct approach to say that the partial award is
 not challengeable under Section 37 (2) after the learned Single Judge
 arrived at the finding that the partial award travels beyond the
 contours of Section 16(2) and proceeded to decide admissibility of the
 claims on merits. On the other hand, in the instant case, where only
 preliminary issue is decided wherein the disputes were not entertained
 on the count that the petitioner could not arbitrate the same by
 operation of clause 24.1 is no decision on merits but takes away the
 jurisdiction of the tribunal to adjudicate the disputes being outside the
 purview of arbitration and as such the nomenclature "award" would
 not make the order passed by the learned Arbitral Tribunal as award.  Thirdly, in the case of NTPC (supra), the learned Single Judge after
 analyzing the scheme of Section 16 of the Act also arrives at the
 finding that the decision on merits in addition to the question of the
 jurisdiction is not an order accepting the plea under Section 16 (2) of
 the Act and as such the appeal under Section 37(2) in the said case
 was not maintainable. In the words of the learned Single Judge, it was
 observed thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 Exception 1.― Saving of contract to refer to arbitration dispute that
 may arise - This section shall not render illegal a contract by which
 two or more persons agree that any dispute which may arise between
 them in respect of any subject or class of subjects shall be referred to
 arbitration, and that only the amount awarded in such arbitration shall
 be recoverable in respect of the dispute so referred. Exception 2.― Saving of contract to refer questions that have already
 arisen - Nor shall this section render illegal any contract in writing, by
 which two or more persons agree to refer to arbitration any question
 between them which has already arisen, or affect any provision of any
 law in force for the time being as to references to arbitration. 41. A perusal of the amended Section 28 of the Contract Act, 1957
extracted above would show that both kinds of agreements i.e. agreements
which restrict the period of limitation within which claims could be referred,
as also agreements which extinguish the right of a party to prefer a claim or
discharges any party from any liability under a contract on expiry of a
specified period, are void to that extent. 42. Before the amendment of Section 28 in 1997, the agreements
reducing the period of limitation were distinguished from those which did
not limit the time within which a party might enforce his rights, but which
provided for a release or forfeiture of rights, if no suit was brought within
the period stipulated in the agreement; and the latter class of agreements,
being outside the scope of the section, were held to be binding between the
parties. Thus, in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Sujir Ganesh Nayak & Co. (AIR 1997 SC 2049), the Supreme Court drew a clear distinction between an
agreement which curtails the period of limitation and an agreement which
provides for forfeiture or waiver of the right itself, if no action is
commenced within the period stipulated by the agreement. The first was
held to be void as offending Section 28 but, the later was held not falling
within the mischief of Section 28 . Thus, it was held that curtailment of the
period of limitation was not permissible in view of Section 28 but extinction
of the right itself, unless exercised within the specified time, was permissible
and can be enforced. 43. After the 1997 amendment to Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act,
1872, not only the curtailment of the period of limitation is void, but also the
extinction of right, if sought to be brought by the agreement within a
specific period, which period is less than the period of limitation prescribed
for the suit under the Contract in question, is also rendered void. In other
words, after the amendment to Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872
by Act 1 of 1997, the distinction between curtailing of the period of
limitation and extinction of the right itself, after the specified period, no
longer exists. 44. Therefore, I do not find merit in the submission of Mr. Sethi that there
lies a difference in the curtailment of the period of limitation and the
extinction of the right itself. The judgment relied by the Mr. Sethi in the case
of H.P. State Forest Company (Supra) was rendered in the context of the Section 28 of the Contract Act as it stood prior to the amendment. The effect
of legislative amendment was never considered in the said judgment . The
judgment of H.P. State Forest Company (supra) rendered by the Supreme
Court merely affirms the view in the case of Sujir Nayak 's case and the
effect of the amendment to the statute was not considered. This has been
explained by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of arbitration
wherein similar contention was raised and was negatived on the count of the
amendment. It has been observed by Punjab and Haryana High Court that
the statement made by the counsel for the petitioner in the H.P. State Forest
Company (Supra) on the ground that the amendment to Section 28 has been
repealed or scrapped was based on mistaken belief. The said discussion
finds mention in the judgment passed in the case of Sunil Goyal vs.
Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board [2011(2) Arb.LR 251 (P&H)] OMP No.790/2012 Page 44 of 47 wherein, it was held that Act No.30 of 2001 does not have the effect of
repealing the amendment to Section 28 of the Contract Act by Act 1 of
1997. The following observations made in Sunil Goyal 's case at paras 12 to
15 are relevant: 14. In India Tobacco Co. Ltd. vs. CTO, (1975) 3 SCC 512 the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court held: 15. In view of the above, the Indian Parliament Act No.30 of 2001
 does not have the effect of repealing the amendment carried out
 by Indian Parliament Act No.1 of 1997..................." (Emphasis supplied) OMP No.790/2012 Page 46 of 47 45. In view of the above discussion, I do not find any reason to depart
from the view taken by Sunil Goyal 's case (supra) by Punjab and Haryana
High Court. Therefore, the judgments passed in the case of H.P. State
Forest Corporation (supra) and United India Insurance Company Limited
v. Karam Chand Goel are distinguishable as they were rendered under the
provisions of unamended Section 28 of the Contract Act. Therefore, I find
that clause 24.1 of the Act so far as it puts the restriction on the party either
by extinction of right to arbitrate or for its enforcement of the right to
arbitrate unless the notice is given within 14 days of the receipt of the
recommendations of DRB lies in the teeth of Section 28 of the Contract Act
(as amended in the year 1997) and thus the same has to be read down and
the effect of such restriction is in consequential. 46. The resultant effect of the aforementioned discussion is that as a
matter of law, the restriction prescribed under clause 24.1 of the Contract
putting fetters upon the party to arbitrate their claim is inconsequential.
Accordingly, the impugned order deciding preliminary issue cannot sustain
and the same is set aside. Appeal is allowed. Learned Arbitral Tribunal is
requested to entertain the claims of the petitioner and decide the same on
merits in accordance with law. (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
APRIL 02, 2013 OMP No.790/2012 Page 47 of 47