DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 DELHI BENCH "I (2)" 2. Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the
Hon'ble DRP has erred in directing the AO/TPO to drop the proposed
adjustment of Rs. 9,88,84,046/- on account of disallowance of G&A
Expenses paid by the assessee to M/s B.G. International Ltd ( 'BGIL')

2.1 The Hon'ble DRP has erred in not appreciating the findings of the
AO/TPO that 3 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10 a) The assessee has not been able to establish that it has actually
received any intra-group G & A services. b) Beyond a description of the services, no evidence, much less
concrete evidence, establishing the actual rendering of services has been
provided. c) The bulk of the so-called 'evidence' furnished during the
proceedings before the TPO as well the DRP consists of the debit notes,
manuals, policy documents, mention of budget amounts, internal
correspondence, which by themselves do not establish that such services
have actually been received by the assessee d) The assessee has not been able to establish the economic and
commercial benefits derived by it on account of such services e) Without prejudice to the above, the cost allocation amongst the
different units or associate enterprises, purportedly on the basis of the
reports of external consultants, are completely arbitrary as they are
based on ad-hoc factors like head-counts & hourly rates etc. and
prepared by the external consultants on the basis of the inputs on such
ad-hoc factors given by the AEs themselves f) No comparable independent enterprise would comparable
circumstances have paid for the services in g) Without prejudice to the findings regarding the actual rendering of
services and the non-existence of the economic or commercial benefit
derived by the assessee, the services are essentially in the nature of
share-holders/stewardship services which are for the benefit of the parent
company and hence to that extent the ALP is liable to be treated as Nil. DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

2.2 The Hon'ble DRP has erred in not appreciating the fact that in
terms of the Joint Operating Agreement (`JOA'), all costs are shared
among the joint venture partners in ratio of their participating interest and
that the two other parties to the JOA (M/s ONGC and Reliance Industries
Ltd) , which are unrelated parties, would not pay the cost of the services
of associate enterprises which would have been in excess of the ALP. 3. Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the
Hon'ble DRP has erred in directing the AO/TPO to drop the proposed
adjustment of Rs. 1,52,09,65,985/-on account of disallowance of
Management Service and Unit Charges [consisting of Federal Green
Recharges of 14,85,73,458/-, Management & Unit Recharges of Rs.
1,22,95,73,659/- and Technology Recharges of Rs. 14,28,18,869/-) paid
by the assessee to M/s B.G. International Ltd ( 'BGIL')

3.1 The Hon'ble DRP has erred in not appreciating the findings of the
AO/TPO that a) The assessee has not been able to establish that it has actually
received any services in lieu of the Management Service & Unit Charges. b) Beyond a description of the services, no evidence, much less
concrete evidence, establishing the actual rendering of services has been
provided. c) The bulk of the so-called 'evidence' furnished during the
proceedings before the TPO as well the DRP consists of the debit notes,
manuals, policy documents, mention of budget amounts, internal
correspondence, which by themselves do not establish that such services
have actually been received by the assessee d) The assessee has not been able to establish the economic and
commercial benefits derived by it on account of such services e) Without prejudice to the above, the cost allocation amongst the
different units or associate enterprises, purportedly on the basis of the
reports of external consultants, are completely arbitrary as they are
based on ad-hoc factors like head-counts hourly rates etc. and prepared 5 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

by the external consultants on the basis of the inputs on such ad-hoc
factors given by the AEs themselves f) No comparable independent enterprise would have paid for the
services incomparable circumstances g) There is an element of duplication in respect of some of the
services comprised in the Management Service & Unit Charges
(Accounting, Taxation, Cost Control etc.) claimed to have been rendered
by M/s BGIL in that the India Project Office is also independently looking
after such functions. h) Without prejudice to the findings regarding the actual rendering of
services and the non-existence of the economic or commercial benefit
derived by the assessee, the services are essentially in the nature of
share-holders/stewardship services which are for the benefit of the parent
company and hence to that extent the ALP is liable to be treated as Nil. 3.2 The Hon'ble DRP has erred in not appreciating the fact that in
terms of the Joint Operating Agreement (JOA'), the all costs are shared
among the joint venture partners in ratio of their participating interest and
that the two other parties to the JOA( M/s ONGC and Reliance Industries
Ltd) , which are unrelated parties, would not pay the cost of the services
of associate enterprises which would have been in excess of the ALP 4. Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the
Hon'ble DRP has erred in directing the AO/TPO to restrict the proposed
adjustment of Rs. 22,58,422/- on account of the loan transaction between
the assessee and M/s BG Asia Pacific Holding Ltd (BGAPHL) to Rs.
14,61,247/-only. 4.1 The Hon'ble DRP erred in holding that the AO/TPO was wrong in
working out the adjustment on the basis of an interest rate of 12.5% as
the loan transaction under consideration was in the nature of a forced
transaction, having arisen due to the action of the AO in unilaterally
adjusting a refund due to the assessee against a demand due from M/s 6 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 BGAPHL in a previous year (which was subsequently reduced in first
 Appeal resulting into a refund in the hands of M/s BGAPHL which in turn
 paid back the amount to the assessee without any interest). 4.2 The Hon'ble DRP erred in not appreciating the fact that once a
 transaction admittedly takes the character of a loan between associate
 enterprises, it becomes immaterial whether or not the transaction was
 undertaken voluntarily and therefore, the receipt of the loan amount from
 M/s BGAPHL without charging any interest, called for adjustment at an
 appropriate interest rate on account of benefit availed by BGAPHL

 5 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the
 Hon'ble DRP has erred in directing the AO/TPO to drop the proposed
 addition of Rs. 39,59,606 on account of expenses claimed to have been
 incurred in relation to club entrance and subscription fees for its
 employees

 5.1 The Hon'ble DRP has erred in not appreciating the fact the
 expenses under consideration are admittedly in the nature of club
 expenses and hence the same cannot be said to have been incurred
 wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business of the assessee. 6 The appellant prays for leave to add, amend, modify or alter any
 grounds of appeal at the time or before the hearing of the appeal. 2. The Assessee in his cross objection raised the following grounds of appeal for
 the Assessment Year 2009-10 in CO. 13/Del/2015 in ITA No. 2227/Del/2014:- 3. The assessee, a non-resident company, engaged in the business of
 exploration and extraction of mineral oils and entered into production selling
 contracts, as mentioned in Para No. 3 of the order of the Ld. assessing
 officer, filed its return of income on 30/09/2009 declaring total income of Rs.
 10081318857/-. Assessee has entered in to some international transactions
 mentioned at Para No. 4 of the order of the Ld. assessing officer determining 8 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 its Arms‟ length price as mentioned at page No. 3 of the order. The
 „international transaction‟ and its ALP in dispute is management services unit
 charges of Rs. 1 520966005/- paid by the assessee to BG international Ltd
 benchmarked using the Transaction Net Margin Method submitting that it is at
 arm‟s length. The Ld. transfer pricing officer computed the arm‟s length price
 of management and unit recharge paid by assessee to BGIL for following
 services as nil. 4. Similarly, the Ld. transfer pricing officer also noted that out of the total general
 and administrative expenses of Rs. 171220433/- , Third party cost are Rs.
 14 crore and the balance of Rs. 31220433/- pertains to time writing cost. The
 Ld. transfer pricing officer held that the third-party costs are verifiable and
 therefore they are treated at arm‟s length. Further with respect to the balance
 expenses of Rs. 106104934/- no evidences have been produced to show
 that the services have been provided to the assessee. The arm‟s length price
 of that transaction was considered at nil. As the amount paid to the
 associated concern was net of taxes, the amount of taxes of Rs. 7220888/-
 was held to be at arm‟s length and therefore adjustment u/s 92CA of the act
 was proposed of the net expenditure of Rs. 98884046/-. 5. On objection before the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel, vide Para No. 6.6 of
 the direction , it was held that assessee has received the services and
 derives benefit from the services. It was further held that it is not the
 shareholders‟ activity and the cost allocation key applied by the assessee is
 appropriate. The DRP also came to the conclusion that TNMM is the most
 appropriate method in this case and CUP method cannot be applied in
 absence of data availability in case of comparable cases. As the margin of 9 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 the assessee was much above the comparable companies, the Ld. Dispute
 Resolution Panel directed the Ld. assessing officer/Transfer Pricing Officer to
 delete the adjustment proposed. In the result, the Ld. Dispute Resolution
 Panel directed the Ld. Transfer Pricing Officer to delete adjustment of Rs.
 1520966005/- with respect to management unit charges paid to BGIL and
 also general and administrative expenses paid to the same associated
 enterprise amounting to Rs. 98884046/-. Therefore, revenue by ground No.
 1, 2 and 3 of the appeal has challenged the direction of Dispute Resolution
 Panel. 6. Both the parties agreed before us that the issue covered in this appeal is
 identical to ground No. 1- 3 of the appeal of the revenue for assessment year
 2010 - 11 in ITA No. 1581/del/2015 for which detailed arguments have been
 placed on record by both the parties. It was further submitted that there are
 no changes in the facts and law in this appeal as compared to the appeal of
 revenue for assessment year 2010 - 11. 7. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the relevant
 records produced before us as well as the order of the Ld. assessing officer
 and direction of the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel. Based on our examination
 we also found that the issue is squarely covered by the grounds of appeal in
 appeal of revenue for assessment year 2010-11. We have dealt with the
 issue vide Para No. 67 to 72 of our order dated 24/04/2017 in ITA No.
 1581/del/2015 for assessment year 2010-11 as under:- 70. It is apparent from the above decision of the Hon'ble Bombay high
 court that it is not an appeal proceedings, but a correcting
 mechanism whereby a second look is given to the proposed
 assessment made by the Ld. transfer pricing officer wrote
 assessing officer by the higher functionaries of the revenue wherein
 the interest of the assessee is kept in mind, and therefore it is a
 continuation of assessment proceedings only. Further, while
 reading the order of the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel it has been
 noted that assessee has filed though volume of submissions as an
 additional evidences, the same were sent to the Ld. transfer pricing
 officer for his comments. However, the Ld. transfer pricing officer
 wide letter dated 12/11/2013 has not examine those evidence was
 submitted that though assessee was given ample opportunity but
 those are not submitted before him. Therefore he objected to the
 additional evidences submitted. We are not in agreement with such
 an approach of the Ld. transfer pricing officer in 1st not verifying the
 additional evidences submitted by the assessee for which a proper
 opportunity has been given by the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel 13 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 and secondly now objecting before us that Ld. Dispute Resolution
 Panel has ad in admitting the additional evidences. The correct
 approach would have been though objecting to the admission of the
 additional evidences but also opining on the merit in case the Ld.
 Dispute Resolution Panel decides to admit the additional
 evidences, so that such objection on the merit can also be
 considered by the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel or any higher
 forum. This approach can save the precious time of everybody
 involved either in resolving the dispute a dispute resolution
 mechanism or at appellate forum. As the Ld. transfer pricing officer
 did not respond to the additional evidences submitted by the
 assessee on merits of the case, and Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel
 has admitted those evidences for the reason that no proper
 opportunity has been given by the Ld. transfer pricing officer, we do
 not find any infirmity in the order of the Ld. Dispute Resolution
 Panel on admission of the additional evidences submitted before it
 and adjudicating on it. Therefore, the finding given by the Ld.
 Dispute Resolution Panel in Para No. 4.3 of its direction admitting
 the additional evidence does not suffer from any infirmity. With
 respect to the reasonable opportunity granted by the Ld. transfer
 pricing officer to the assessee we have already supplied our view,
 whether reasonable opportunity was granted by the Ld. transfer
 pricing officer or not. 71. Now coming to the merits of the case, the above issue has been
 discussed at length by the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel in Para
 No. 4 onwards of its direction as under:- The main issue under these objections is the rejection of TNMM
 as the most appropriate method used by the assessee. The
 assessee had benchmarked the intra group services using
 TNMM as the most appropriate method and it had earned a
 margin of 48.71%. All the international transactions relating to
 intra group services were clubbed together and assessee
 benchmarked the same under TNMM, In the provision of
 business support services, the assessee has used TNMM and
 had shown a margin of cost plus 12%. The payment of interest
 was benchmarked by obtaining quotations and corroborated by 14 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 providing list of independent companies' comparable payment of
 interest on ECBs. 4.1. The TPO rejected the approach of the assessee and used CUP
 as the most appropriate method in intra group services. The
 justification given by the TPO can be summarized as under: Assessee had filed voluminous submissions as additional
 evidence. The same was sent to the TPO for his comments. TPO
 through letter dated 12.11.2013 has stated that assessee was
 given ample opportunity to submit the evidence during the
 course of the TP proceedings. However, the assessee failed to
 use the opportunity to produce the evidences and therefore the
 additional produced before the TPO could not be entertained. y

 4.2. The assessee has made the submissions elaborately
 which can be summarized as 15 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 follows: page 1 to 534 of Volume VA of the Paperbook), the TPO has not
 commented on the same and has completely disregarded the
 submissions of the assessee
25} This contention of the TPO is extraneous to the application of
 arm's length standard in respect of intra-group services as the
 assessee is only required to show that these services are
 received and have benefited it and where non- duplicative and
 non-shareholder in nature and the assessee has fully discharged
 his onus in this regard. 4.3. DRP has considered the submission of the assessee. The
 proceedings before the DRP are only a continuation of the
 assessment proceedings. Therefore, DRP is bound to accept
 any additional evidence filed by the assessee during the course 18 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 of its proceedings. It is also clear that the time given by the TPO
 to furnish the evidence was at the fag end of the TP proceedings.
 It is only fair to give a chance to the assessee to explain its
 position. Therefore, the additional evidences are admitted. 4.4. The assessee is receiving services under different heads,
 namely,
 A. General and Administrative,
 B. Information Management related services,
 C. Management and Unit Charges
 D. Federal Green Charge
 E. Technology Recharge i
 F. Payroll Expenses ' : '
 The assessee has provided voluminous documents which are
 containing the following Pages: These shares are allotted at "NIL" cost to the employees.
 However, the cost relating to these shares are subsequently
 recovered/charged to individual asset. Relocation costs - This head comprise costs in respect of relocation of
 assignees/employees including familiarization expenses, travel
 costs, cost of transporting the assignees personal belongings,
 storage costs, etc. also form a part of this head.
 Consultancy fees , - Consulting services mainly comprise of services availed from
 third parties by BG/L on behalf of the assessee. For instance,
 services were availed from global tax and legal firms in relation
 to expat taxation of the BG employees. Professional subscriptions and license cost - Professional subscriptions and license cost mainly comprise of
 payments made for subscription to journals magazines and other
 reports relevant to the business sector of - the assessee viz. oil and gas journals, fees paid for Platts
 reports, fees paid for reports issued by Society of Petroleum
 Engineers/other professional institutes (i.e. Geoquest/PEEP/HIS 20 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

Energy/Schlumberger, other energy industry related publications
etc.). Bank charges ; - Bank charges are predominantly recovery of cost incurred by
BGIL in arranging for providing bank guarantee to BGEPIL. i
Travel & Subsistence
Travel and subsistence refers to business travel expenses
incurred by BGIL on behalf of the assessee. Also includes cost of
meals, per diem expenses and other incidental charges.
Diminimus charges - Diminimus charges are expenses incurred by BGIL in relation
to the expats on phone calls/visa cost/insurance
cost/familiarization cost. These costs are incurred on the
employees either seconded to India or travelling to India for a
project. Thus, these costs are asset specific cost.
General and Administrative expenses -Service tax - Service tax represents amount of tax paid on the services
received from BGIL towards G&A. . -Evidence filed before
the TPO (forming part of paper-book filed with Form 35A on 6,
2014)
Salary & other costs '
Sample copies of relevant debit notes along with third party
invoices/documents to demonstrate the actual receipt of services
and benefits received thereon. (Page 259 to 293 of Volume IV of
the Paperbook) >
Relocation costs : Sample copies of relevant debit notes along with third party
invoices/documents to demonstrate the actual receipt of services
and benefits received thereon. (Page 364 to of Volume 493 of
the Paperbook). : XXXXXXX
 (Refer Page 260 to 518 of Volume 1 of the additional evidence
 Paper book)
 Timesheets of individuals evidencing the actual work done
 pertaining to India projects. The said timesheet clearly
 demonstrates that those employees had worked in relation to
 which cost has been charged to BGEPIL. • Sample inter-company debit notes and Skill Supply Agreement
 copies which demonstrate that the time writing charges were in
 relation to the said SSAs and the invoice was raised under the
 said SSA. Further, the description of time writing cost sheet
 demonstrates that the same pertains to the India project. (Refer
 Page 236 to 281 of Volume 1 of the additional evidence Paper
 book)
• Timesheets of individuals evidencing the actual work done
 pertaining to India projects. The said timesheet clearly
 demonstrates that those employees had worked for the SSA's in
 relation to which cost has been charged to BGEPIL (Refer Page
 282 to 294 of Volume 1 of the additional evidence Paper book) 24 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

• Email evidences containing employee declarations (for sample
 SSAs) demonstrating that actual work done pertains to India
 projects. Copies of reports made by such employees under the
 SSA. (Refer Page 296 to 532 of Volume 1 of the additional
 evidence Paper book)
 IV. Benefits derived
 Expatriate employees provide technical assistance as required
 by BGEPIL which assists them in terms of quality, industry
 details, understanding global ideas and best practices which
 BGEPIL would not have ready access. B. MANAGEMENT AND UNIT RECHARGES - INFORMATION
 MANAGEMENT ('HWl
 RELATED SERVICES I. Description of services received (a) IT support services - Seamless IT support to the assessee's
 personnel on any IT issues faced by it on a day-to-day basis.
 Undertaking network improvements on a scheduled basis. (b) Email services - E-mail related support services in the nature of
 creating standardized corporate e-mail account for all employees
 across the globe, maintaining control on making each e-mail
 account a separate and unique e-mail account, managing e-mail
 services. (c) BG Intranet Portal - Development and maintenance of the portal!
 is undertaken by BGIL. BGIL inputs various policies and
 guidelines of the group on the intranet portal. (d) Internet services - Provision of internet access to assessee. Maintenance of internet services to ensure assessee is protected
 from cyber-attacks and cyber-crime. Monitoring activities of
 various employees on internet and corrective actions taken in
 case of reports of hacking, etc. (e) Enabling mobile/offsite working - 24X7 platform provided by
 BGIL so that assessee's personnel can work even if not in office. (f) IM Central Services - Access to various licenses purchased by
 BGIL from third parties such as Procon license, Oracle license,
 Cognos license, SAP license. Receives support in case of any
 issues faced by BGEPIL in using SAP Oracle etc.
 Benefits derived
 IT support services 25 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10 (a) Access to highly experience and technical IT resources without
 having to invest in an in-house dedicated IT team. Thus,
 reduction in downtime and idle time cost. (b) Reduction in investment on standby assets as such standby
 assets are owned and maintained by BGIL. {c) Consistent IT platform and infrastructure maintained by BGIL
 which provides assesse access to the knowledge pool and huge
 database of information and technical knowledge. Further,
 consistent IT platform also ensures on-time performance of
 services. Email services (a) Corporate e-mail account ensures confidentiality of sensitive
 information closely associated with the applicant's business and
 gives it better control over use of email by personnel for personal
 use. (b) Enables assesse to track the trail of e-mails much faster. (c) A separate and unique e-mail account enables the assessee to
 have better control over the use of e-mails by its employees. (d) Creating a corporate e-mail provides opportunity to the assessee
 to prescribe structure of e-mails to employees and for
 standardization of e-mail communications for specific
 purposes/events. (e} Assessee receives the benefit of on-going and continuous
 development in IT arena. BG Intranet Portal ,
 Reduction in wastage of time, efforts and cost on the following
 grounds: BG Intranet Portal ,
 Reduction in wastage of time, efforts and cost on the following
 grounds: ACCOUNTS. TAXATION, INSURANCE ETC I. Description
 of services received
 HR support - DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 Support on deployment of globally mobile expatriate staff: f) E-mail correspondences by BGIL in relation to the recruitment
 policies. Power point presentations demonstrating graduate
 development move projections necessary as a recruitment 31 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 agenda for BGEPIL (Page 607 to 608 of Volume VB of the
 Paperbook) g) E-mail correspondences by BGIL which demonstrates that
 BGEPIL avails support in relation to Annual Incentive Scheme
 performance and Salary Review along with the progression
 panel considering the employer-employee relationship with a
 long term perspective. (Page 607 to 608 of Volume VB of the
 Paperbook) h) Snapshots on global mobility and demonstration on professional
 and area development. Employee resourcing and recruitment
 strategy summary of Poge 735 to 741 of Volume VB of the
 Paperbook) i) Extract of Service agreements providing certain staff, support
 and personnel services of Page 808 to 823 of Volume VB of the
 Paperbook)
 Accounting. Finance. Taxation & Legal support !
 a. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to accounting matters fPageSSS to 590 of Volume VB
 of the Paperbook)
 b. E-mail correspondences evidencing substantial support received
 from BGIL in relation to taxation and provisioning mattersfPage
 578 to 581 of Volume VB of the Paperbook)
 c. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from
 BGIL in relation to WTfPage 582 to 587 of Volume VB of the
 Paperbook)
 d. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to profit and loss account and balance sheet
 analysisffoge 588 to 588 of Volume VB of the Paperbook
 e. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to legal matters, SAP support etc. Quarter review of
 user access summary along with SAP Role assignment forms in
 respect of employees(Page 533 to 562 of Volume VB of the
 Paperbook)
 f. E-mail correspondence evidencing support received from BGIL
 packaging supplementary information.(Page 591 to 562 of
 Volume VB of the Paperbook)
 g. The allocation of the technology expenses have been made on
 cost to cost basis. Evidence that allocation is on cost to cost is in
 form of Global Cost Allocation Policy (Pages 773 to 788 of
 Volume IV of Paperback) certified by Price Waterhouse Coopers
 vide their report. (Pages 789 to 826 of Volume IV of Paperbook) 32 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

h. In addition, report of the independent consultant certifying the
 cost allocation methodology for the year 2009 is also provided.
 (Pages 773 to 853of Volume IV of Paperbook) III, Additional
 evidence filed before Ld. DRP on November?, 2014
 Human Resources -i * a) A slide deck prepared by BGIL on 360° feedback tool which
 provides a framework for behaviours critical to excellence
 offering depth and level of guidance sought, (Page 1 , to 5 of
 Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paper book) b) Guidelines prepared by BGIL on 360 Feedback tool are intended
 to support HR Managers and Advisors in understanding the 360
 process in BG Group and their role as trained 360 HR Coaches.
 These guidelines are to ensure that a minimum standard is
 adopted and maintained across the Group in the feedback and
 support Participants receive from the HR Coach in completing
 their 360 review. It is the first time BG has introduced a 360 tool
 at group level in year 2009.(Page 6 to 11 of Volume 3 of the
 Additional evidence paper book) c) A slide deck of BGIL dated October 2009 on Awareness Training
 for Mentors & Mentees containing an agenda of safety moments,
 role of mentor, developmental approach to mentoring, role of a
 mentee, ground rules for mentoring relationship, etc.fPage 12 to
 33 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paper book) d) A slide deck on People Agenda update for year 2009 which
 refers activities in relation to performance management, reward,
 talent management, On-line ADR, etc.fPage 34 to 50 of Volume
 3 of the Additional evidence paper book) e) A planning document on BG Group Relatives Response Plan
 December 2009 which describes how BG Group manages
 enquiries from relatives of BG people in an incident. It explains
 the context of BG Group's Crisis Management system. It f) describes the organization, processes, roles and responsibilities
 of the Relatives Response Team (RRT).(Page 51 to 56 of
 Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paper book) ' '..... , g) A functional career ladder or a Job description responsibility
 matrix in relation to HSSE management, finance & planning,
 global IT&T and HR which summarizes position / designation,
 requisite skill set required, key accountability etc. Poge 57 to 60
 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook) h) Sample copies of Inter Company Debit Notes raised by BG1L on
 BGEPIL which provides details of cost recharged in relation to
 HR activities (Page 61 to 71 of Volume 3 of the Additional
 evidence paperbook) h) A manual in relation to Business Travel 33 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 and Expenses Standard which is governed by BG Group's
 Human Resources Policy and sets mandatory requirements
 regarding undertaking business travel on behalf of BG Group
 and the claiming of expenses associated with business travel
 and other business activities (Poge 72 to 95 of Volume 3 of the
 Additional evidence paperbook) i) A sample HR Induction
 Checklist prepared by BG group for new starters / new
 employeesfPoge 96 to 98 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence
 paperbook) j) A slide depicting list of SAP HR Super Users
 among the group entities (Page 99 to 99 of Volume 3 of the
 Additional evidence paperbook) k) Snapshots of portal which
 provides access to various websites, documents, manuals,
 standards etc. which are provided below^Poge 100 to 118 of
 Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook)

a. Access to learning management system
b. Portal which provides information / role in relation to BG group
 employee
c. behaviors I c. Portal related to BG group and talent management
 d. Assistance from BGIL in relation to Travel related queries e.
 Access to BG portal which provides various services
d. Information related to Annual incentive scheme provided to BG
 group employees g. Information related to HR functions h.
 Information related to organizational functions i. Information &
 assistance related to travel related documentations
 Accounting. Finance. Taxation & Legal support a) A report prepared by BGIL on capital expenditure which provides
 detailed process transaction flow, identify financial reporting risks
 inherent in the process, and the related control objectives. It also
 helps identify the controls in operation, and map these to the
 control objectives identified. It demonstrates how the controls
 address the relevant assertions for the material financial
 statement balances affected by this process. It also helps identify
 the method of monitoring and nature of evidence b) required to confirm operation of controls. (Page 119 to 133 of
 Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook) c) A manual / reference note for the year 2009 prepared by BGIL
 which helps the Regional Investment Committee to approve
 ordinary Course business expenditure on capital projects and
 financial commitments for the Region, the substitution capital
 funding within the Region's current approved budget for new
 projects, Re-approving capital investments, Approve pre-
 sanction capital expenditure incurred in year of sanction, 34 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 Approve physical energy commodity sales and purchase
 agreements (including associated transportation / regasification
 capacity and trading activities), etc.fPage 134 to 138 of Volume 3
 of the Additional evidence paperbook) d) A slide deck prepared by BGIL dated May 2009 which
 summarizes process improvements and overview of
 benchmarking of financial shared services etc.(Page 139 to 151
 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook) ,.--.. ^ -- -..->-
 > e) A slide deck dated May 2009 prepare by BGIL which provides a
 guidance towards cost control, cost management, G&A
 management, travel saving strategy, cost reduction etc.(Page
 152 to 189 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook) f) Copies of BG group finance newsletter for Quarter 1, 3 & 4 of
 2009 which provides various useful guidelines in relation to
 finance. It also provides updates on the happening of events at
 various group entities and keep the group updated on the
 financial frontpage 190 to 236 of Volume 3 of the Additional
 evidence paperbook) g) A slide deck dated May 2009 prepared for a workshop in relation
 to cost recovery for virtual conference undertaken by &G\L(Page
 237 to 242 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook) h) A slide deck prepared by BGIL which provides the group entities
 with a training guidelines to extract various reports from SAP.
 (Page 243 to 245 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence
 paperbook) i) A functional career ladder or a Job description responsibility
 matrix in relation to taxation which summarizes position /
 designation, requisite skill set required, key accountability etc.
 (Page 246 to 246 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence
 paperbook) , . , . j) A slide deck prepared by BGIL to train the group entities on
 sources of employment law, vicarious liability, contract of
 employment, various litigation & laws. (Page 247 to 283 of
 Volumes of the Additional evidence paperbook) ;
 Insurance related support services and other miscellaneous
 support services
a. A slide deck dated November 2009 on travel insurance policies
 which provides guidelines on applicable insurance policies for
 eligible employees.(Page 284 to 292 of Volume 3 of the
 Additional evidence paperbook)
b. A guideline dated December 2009 which establishes BG Group
 insurance philosophy and responsibilities which applies to all 35 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 locations of BG Group including BGEPIL-fPoge 293 to 305 of
 Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook)
c. A guideline dated December 2009 which confirms the procedure
 adopted by the BG
d. Group Insurance Team for the appointment of a project-specific
 insurance broker leading to the purchase of insurance and
 servicing of the insurance needs, including claims {1MB - claims
 handling may be subject to separate contract). The document
 also addresses the procedure adopted for the relatively limited
 direct approaches made to insurers without the use of
 brokers.(Page 306 to 311 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence
 paperbook) \
e. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to insurance issues pertaining to renewal of various
 insurance coveragesfPoge 312 to
f. 364 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook)
g. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to insurance issues pertaining to renewal premium
 calculation for 2010 BGEPIL (Poge 365 to 367 of Volume 3 of
 the Additional evidence paperbook)
h. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to insurance issues pertaining to forecast guidelines
 on insurance assumptionsfPoge 36S to 371 of Volume 3 of the
 Additional evidence paperbook)
i. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to insurance issues pertaining to BGEPIL - operational
 insurance renewal 2009/lOfPoge 372 to 372 of Volume 3 of the
 Additional evidence paperbook) . .. j. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to insurance issues pertaining to renewal of various
 insurance coveragesfPoge 373 to 374 of Volume 3 of the
 Additional evidence paperbook)
k. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to insurance issues pertaining to renewal of insurance
 2010fPoge 375 to 377 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence
 paperbook}
l. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to insurance issues pertaining to premium paid
 inclusive of tax(Poge 378 to 378 of Volume 3 of the Additional
 evidence paperbook)
m. E-mail correspondences evidencing support received from BGIL
 in relation to insurance issues pertaining to a potential leak which
 has been detected from BG HSSE report and whether any 36 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 advice to insurers is required for the same. (Page 379 to 379 of
 Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook}
n. A functional career ladder or a Job description responsibility
 matrix in relation to insurance which summarizes position /
 designation, requisite skill set required, key accountability etc.
 (Page 380 to 380 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence
 paperbook}
o. Terms of Personal Accident Insurance Scheme provided to BG
 group employees which mentions benefit for employees, non-
 employees, guidance for claims, exclusions if any, etc.(Page 381
 to 382 of Volume 3 of the Additional evidence paperbook)
p. Sample copy of Inter Company Debit Notes raised by BGIL on
 BGEPIL in relation to miscellaneous expenses which
 summarizes various activities undertaken by BGIL for which cost
 is charged. (Page 383 to 417 of Volume 3 of the Additional
 evidence paperbook)
 IV. Benefits derived
 Support on deployment of globally mobile expatriate staff : Insurance Support
• Central insurance management team manages insurance for the
 group as a whole thereby reducing the overall risk and costs and
 enjoying economies of scale
• Removes necessity to employ a full time insurance specialist - reduction in downtime and idle time cost. • Access to more experienced and skilled insurance specialist
D. FEDERAL GREEN RECHARGE
Description of services received
 The Assessee is provided with guidelines in relation to best
 practices, E&A Budget management E&A Budget planning, Peer
 networks, Parenting & resourcing, trainings etc. in relation to
 exploration, developments, operations, Health Safety Security
 Environment ('HSSE'), projects etc. to ensure smooth and
 efficient functioning. The aforesaid services are also in relation to
 development of C&P infrastructure C&P Systems Strategy,
 Contractor relationship management, Market intelligence,
 Procon-Enhancement, SAP Wave, parenting, and project
 management etc. Various assets (including the Assessee) agree
 to participate in common Federal Green Projects on issues that
 affect them on a common basis so that the project studies can
 serve as valuable inputs in their exploration and production
 efforts. Whenever, the studies are commissioned by various
 assets, the costs are shared between them and whenever the
 study or project is commissioned only by the Assessee, the
 charges are based on number of hours spent by the experts of
 the associated enterprise. II. Evidence filed before the TPO (forming part of paper-book filed
 with Form 35A on May 6,2014 38 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10 (a) BG Group HSSE Incident Review Panel Report summarizing
 performance analysis (Page 75to 75of Volume VA of Paperbook) (b) A report on Asset integrity Programme by the Offshore Division
 of HSE's Hazardous Installations Division (Page 76 to 147 of
 Volume VA of Paperbook) (c) Powerpoint presentation summarizing the Egyptian LNG's Asset
 Integrity Journey of ExcellencefPoge 148 to 152 of Volume VA
 ofPaperbook) (d) HSSE Incident review report for the month of June 2QQB(Pages
 153to 181of Volume VA ofPaperbook (e) HSSE report for all the four quarters of FY 2QQ9-lQ(Page 182 to
 228 of Volume VA of Paperbook) _ (f) The allocation of the technology expenses have been made on
 cost to cost basis. Evidence that allocation is on cost to cost is in
 form of Global Cost Allocation Policy (Pages 773to 788of Volume
 IV ofPaperbook) certified by Price Waterhouse Coopers vide
 their report. (Pages 789to 826of Volume IV of Paperbook) (g) In addition, report of the independent consultant certifying the
 cost allocation methodology for the year 2009 is also provided.
 (Pages 773 to 853of Volume IV of Paperbook) (h) Intercompany debit notes with details of time writing i.e. names
 of such people and hours booked by them (Pages 3 to 48 of
 Volume VII ofPaperbook) I.
 III. Additional evidence filed before Ld. DRP onNovember 7, 2014 (a) Detailed description of the activities undertaken for federal
 recharge (Page 1 to 7 of Volume 4 of the Additional evidence
 Paperbook) (b) A standard guidance note issued on December 2009 in relation
 to Floating Production, Storage and Offloading Systems
 (FLNG)which sets out mandatory Company requirements for the
 design and construction of monohull (ship-shaped) new build
 FLNG Facilities worldwide. (Page 8 to 63 of Volume 4 of the
 Additional evidence Paperbook) (c) Guideline issued on July 2009 on Material Selection & Corrosion
 Controlwhich defines the minimum Company requirements for
 selecting materials of construction and corrosion control
 measures to support the corrosion management strategy for a 39 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 facilityfPage 64 to 127 of Volume 4 of the Additional evidence
 Paperbook) (d) A guideline issued on July 2009 on Fabrication of Equipment and
 Piping which defines minimum Company requirements for the
 fabrication, joining, inspection and testing of metallic and non-
 metallic structures (including offshore jackets, trestles etc.), static
 equipment (including pressure vessels, tanks, boilers, furnaces,
 sub-sea manifolds, machinery and valve casings), piping
 systems and pipelines (including flow lines, trunk lines and
 r\sers)(Page 128 to 171 of Volume 4 of the Additional evidence
 Paperbook) (e) A guidance note issued on February 2010 prepared by BGIL to
 define BG's operating policy and procedures for the safe
 isolation, and reVasftateica&icvt o£ <^las\*.<vt ^i>jpw^\ from
 sources of hydrocarbons and other fluids.This document applies
 to the preparation for mechanical isolation, reinstatement and
 leak testing of process utility and drilling systems. It should be
 followed at all BG operated sites, both onshore and offshore, and
 applies to all process systems including subsea pipelines.f^oge
 172 to 226 of Volume 4 of the Additional evidence Paperbook) (f) A handbook issued on February 2010 by BGIL on operation
 guideline on Safe Isolation and Reinstatement of Plant which
 forms part of the BG Group operations requirements for all global
 assets.(Page 227 to 299 of Volume 4 of the Additional evidence
 Paperbook) (g) A slide deck issued on December 2009 prepared by BGIL on
 project & well accounting wherein the overview and statistics of
 BG group assets including BGEPIL capex framework, key
 projects & plans, project accountant role, interaction with PMT &
 well engineers, well reconciliation, reports etc. are
 summarized.(Page 300 to 347 of Volume 4 of the Additional
 evidence Paperbook). (h) A graphical chart summarizing BG Group Finance HSSE
 Schedule for 2009 which summarizing various fedgreen activities
 during the period/Page 348 to 348 of Volume 4 of the Additional
 evidence Paperbook) . (i) Snapshots of access to intranet portal as well as information in
 relation to following Fedgreen activitiesfPage 349 to 356 of
 Volume 4 of the Additional evidence Paperbook) 40 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 a. HSSE
 b. Health risk management . c. Exploration activity
 d. Development activity
 e. Policies
 f. Group operating mode
 g. Asset integrity
 h. Contracts & Procurement activity
 i. Production & operations activity
 j. Corporate reserves etc. (j) A graphical representation of combined operations safety case
 prepared by BG International Armada Development which gives
 guidelines of operation safety case which can be undertaken by
 other group entities. Page 357 to 361 of Volume 4 of the
 Additional evidence Paperbook) (k) A guidance note issued by BGIL for effective environmental
 management which delivers and protects business value
 throughout the lifecycle of an asset and reduces to as low as
 practicable impacts and risks related to the natural environment.
 CPage 362 to 411 of Volume 4 of the Additional evidence
 Paperbook) • '
(I) A guideline issued by BGIL on The Safety Case, which is the
 means of both ensuring and demonstrating that suitable and
 sufficient measures are in place to prevent a major accident or
 environmental event, and to reduce the effects of these events
 should they occur. fPage 412 to 449 of Volume 4 of the
 Additional evidence Paperbook) (m) A document of BGIL which provides the definition and guidance
 on the layout & content of a Safety Case for Combined Offshore
 Operations. It enables such Safety Cases to be prepared
 consistent with the requirements of the BG Group
 Standard.(Page 451 to 482 of Volume 4 of the Additional
 evidence Paperbook) (n) A standard issued by BGIL on incident reporting and
 investigation which sets out procedures for establishing
 reporting and investigation processes, reporting and
 investigation of incidents and subsequent learning from
 incidents. Page 483 to 490 of Volume 4 of the Additional
 evidence Paperbook)

IV. Benefits derived 41 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 The aforesaid services provide the Assessee with access to
 ever-evolving technical standards and guidelines that helps in
 achieving higher level of efficiency and safety. This leads to
 improvement in processes by gaining access to workflow
 manuals. The direct benefits are as below: (Pages 853 to 297 of Volume IV of Paperbook) ; : The assessee has reimbursed the salary of such personnel to
 BGIL on a cost-to-cost basis. II. Evidence filed before the TPO (forming part of paper-
 book filed with Form 35A on May 6, 2014 a) Worksheet containing names and job responsibilities of the
 expatriates seconded to BGEPIL (Page 3 of Volume III of the
 Paperbook) b) Sample copies of tax returns filed by the employeesfPcrge 4 to
 267 of Volume III of the Paperbook) c) Sample copies of debit notes raised by BGIL on the assessee,
 etc. (Page 268 to 291 of Volume III of the Paperbook) d) Letters of secondment issued by BGIL (Page 292to 309 of
 Volume III of the Paperbook) 45 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

4.6 From the above evidence, DRP is of the view that the assessee
 has established the fact that it has rprpivpdthp_5en/icp<: and it is
 a useful service which it has received. The next question before
 the DRP is whether assessee had to establish the arm's length
 nature of each and every transaction separately or it was
 available to the assessee to club the transaction together.
 DRP has considered this issue of separate benchmarking nf thp
 international transactipn carefully. The Income Tax Act and
 Rules provide for clubbing of transactions when a class of
 transactions are involved. The relevant part of the Section/ Rule
 is reproduced below: rule (1), the following factors shall be taken into account
 namely:-- •,+.' . . :" Rule 10D. (1) Every person who has entered into an international
 transaction shall keep and maintain the following information and
 documents, namely:-- According to the information supplied by the assessee and
 examined by the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel does not give any
 such indication. Further regarding non-sharing of the cost by the
 joint-venture partners we have given our findings while deciding the
 appeal of the assessee that such an action of the joint-venture
 partners cannot be the reason to determine the arm's length price
 of the services which is been received by the assessee at nil. In
 view of this we uphold the finding of the Ld. Dispute Resolution
 Panel holding that transactions of intragroup services are
 interlinked, therefore, they should be benchmarked together by
 adopting TNMM as the most appropriate method , hence, directing
 the Ld. transfer pricing officer to delete the adjustment proposed of
 Rs. 3 329766244/-. In the result ground No. 1 to 3 of the appeal of
 the revenue are dismissed.‖ 8. For the year before us the assessee has submitted 11 papaerbooks. According to paper book no 5 assessee has demonstrated the nature of the
 services in relation to general and administrative expenses . In paper book
 no 6 assessee has submitted the details of recovery of expenses details of
 payment made of management unit charges by the assessee. Paper book no
 7 , 8, 10, 11 and 12 contains the details of the benefit received by the
 assessee on receipt of services with respect to general and administrative
 expenses, showing the time sheets of individual fro time writing cost etc. and
 details of third party costs. Paper book no 9 contains the details of list of
 application to which the assessee‟s employees have access to show that the
 assets are used by the assessee. The Ld DR could not point out on any
 infirmity in the above submission of the assessee with respect to satisfaction
 of need, benefit, duplicity, or shareholder‟s activity test. We do not find any
 reason to deviate from our finding as the facts and circumstances leading to
 the dispute are identical. In view of this we dismiss ground No. 1, 2 and 3 of
 the appeal of the revenue. DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10 9. Ground No. 4 of the appeal of the revenue is against the direction of the Ld.
 Dispute Resolution Panel to restrict the proposed adjustment to Rs.
 1461247/- instead of Rs. 2258422/- on account of loan transaction between
 the assessee and M/S BG Asia-Pacific holding Ltd. The brief facts of the
 case stated in Para No. 9 of the order of the Ld. Transfer Pricing Officer
 wherein a demand of Rs. 18067380/- was raised on BG Asia-Pacific holding
 Ltd for assessment year 2004 - 05 vide order under section 143 (1) of the
 income tax act, which was adjusted against the refund of Rs. 18067380/- due
 to the assessee for assessment year 2005 - 06. Subsequently the case of
 BG Asia-Pacific holding Ltd was selected for scrutiny and assessment was
 completed under section 143 (3) of the income tax act and the credit of tax
 paid was given to the assessee, resulting into nil tax demand. The BG Asia-
 Pacific holding Ltd preferred an appeal before the Ld. CIT (A) who directed
 that the interest be calculated and thus the assessment was revised under section 251 of the income tax act, resulting into a refund of Rs. 18067380/-
 which was adjusted earlier. Subsequently, the revenue refunded the sum of
 Rs. 18067380/- back to the BG Asia-Pacific holding Ltd along with interest of
 Rs. 1461247/- amounting in all to Rs. 19528627/-. Rs 18067380/- was
 recovered by the assessee from BG Asia-Pacific holding Ltd which was
 earlier adjusted from the refund of the assessee. Therefore apparently
 assessee received back Rs 18067380/-. The Ld. Transfer Pricing Officer
 noted that though the sum was recovered by revenue from the refund due to
 the assessee , it is akin to loan given by the assessee to BG Asia-Pacific
 Ltd, which was subsequently refunded with interest to BG Asia-Pacific by the
 revenue. Therefore, the Ld. Transfer Pricing Officer held that interest @
 12.5% amounting to Rs. 2258422/- shall be charged which is the return an
 independent entity would expect on money given as loan. Therefore Ld.
 Transfer Pricing Officer proposed an adjustment of Rs. 2258422/-. Assessee
 preferred objections before the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel, vide Para No.
 8.3 of the direction, the Ld. Transfer Pricing Officer was directed to restrict the 50 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 addition to Rs. 1461247/- which is actual interest allowed by revenue to BG
 Asia-Pacific Ltd.. Against this direction, the revenue is in appeal. 10. The Ld. departmental representative vehemently supported the order of the
 Ld. assessing officer/Transfer Pricing Officer and contested that when the
 loan is given by assessee to its associated enterprise it is required to be
 benchmarked with the market rate of interest and the Ld. Transfer Pricing
 Officer has correctly it @ 12.5%. 11. The Ld. authorized representative, vehemently submitted that there is no
 „Transaction‟ as per section 92 F (v) and therefore there is no International
 transaction , which could be benchmarked. He further pressed into service
 the decision of Hon‟ble Delhi High Court in case of Whirlpool of India Ltd
 versus DCIT 381 ITR 154, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd versus CIT 381 ITR 117
 and Honda seil power products Ltd versus DCIT 295 CTR 466. The LD AR
 stated that it is not a loan transaction and therefore cannot be an
 „international transaction‟. He further referred to fact that assessee in its
 cross objection is objecting even the amount upheld by the DRP on this
 ground. In this regard, it was submitted that the forced and unauthorized
 adjustment done by the assessing officer does not construe an international
 transaction within the meaning of section 92B of the Act so as to invoke the
 provisions of Chapter X. He referred that Clause (v) of section 92F of the Act
 defines the term „transaction‟ to include an arrangement, understanding or
 action in concern, whether or not, the same is formal or in writing, or intended
 to be enforceable by legal proceedings. He further submitted that that there
 was no understanding or arrangement between the appellant and the
 associated enterprise in connection with the adjustment of refund or granting
 of loan so as to construe the existence of a transaction between the appellant
 and the associated enterprise. In the result, he submitted that adjustment
 proposed by the ld TPO is erroneous. 12. We have carefully considered the rival contentions and also perused the
 order of the Ld. assessing officer/Transfer Pricing Officer and direction of the 51 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel. The transaction relates to alleged forced
adjustment of refunds of Rs 1,80,67,380 due to the appellant against the
demand due in the case of the associated enterprise namely BG Asia Pacific
Holding Ltd. („BGAPHL‟). This action of the assessing officer was not
approved by the CIT(A) and accordingly a sum of Rs 1,95,28,627 (tax of Rs
1,80,67,380 + interest of Rs 14,61,247) was refunded to BGAPHL. The ld
DRP held that no market interest rate can be imputed as the transaction is
forced on the assessee due to unauthorized action of the assessing officer
and restricted the adjustment to Rs 14,61,247, the actual amount of interest
received by BGAPHL. In this factual matrix, first issue to be decided whether
this transaction can be said to be a „ transaction‟ within the meaning of section 92F (v) and then whether it can be said to be an „international
transaction" within meaning of section 92B of the act. Provisions of section
92F (V) of the act prescribes as under :- :- From the above definition, it is clear that if two parties are acting in concert
then it can be said that they have entered into a „transaction‟. The persons
can be said to be „acting in concert‟ if there is an element of cooperation
which can be extended in many ways directly or indirectly through an
agreement, formal or informal. Further, the persons by virtue of their
business relations can also be said to be „person acting in concert‟. If that be
not so then it would be the duty of the parties to demonstrate it that they are
not acting in concert. In the present case, the tax demand with respect to
associated enterprise has been recovered from the assessee by adjusting the 52 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

refund due to the assessee against the tax demand of the associated
enterprise by the revenue. It is not known whether the adjustments were
made with the consent of the assessee whose case the refund is due. Even
if there is no consent taken from the assessee then if the assessee is
aggrieved by that action then it can always agitate this issue before the higher
authorities. In the present case even after the adjustment of the refund due to
the assessee no evidences have been placed before us that assessee
objected it before higher authorities and also undertook any remedial
measures in obtaining the alleged forceful refund recovered. If the assessee
remains in inaction , it tantamount as consent of the assessee. No such
correspondence / communication objecting to such adjustment was produced
before us. Further, in the present case both, the parties have common
business interest and in the above transaction, there is an element of
cooperation, which is evident from assessee not objecting to adjustment of its
refund. In view of this it satisfies all the conditions of definition of a
„transaction‟ as provided under section 92F (v) of the act. Further, it may be a
transaction but if it is not an international transaction within the meaning of the
provisions of section 92B of the act, the arms length price of it is not required
to be determined. Therefore, it is imperative to examine whether it satisfies
the conditions laid down under that section. According to section 92B ,
lending or borrowing of money between two or more associated enterprises
means an international transaction. In the present case, the assessee has
lent money to the associated enterprises by liquidating its asset of „refund
due‟ for repayment of the tax dues of associated enterprise. In view of this,
money has been lent by the assessee to the associated enterprises hence it
satisfies the basic condition laid down under section 92B (1) of the act. Even
otherwise it is also included in clause (i) ( c ) of the explanation to section
92B of the act as it is a transaction akin to „capital financing‟ in the form of
„advance‟ to the associated enterprise by the assessee. Therefore, in our
opinion the above transaction is an „international transaction‟ within the 53 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 meaning of section 92B of the income tax act. Now after holding, so it would
 be mandatory to compute the arm‟s length price of the above transaction by
 applying one of the methods of determination as per the provisions of section 92C of the income tax act. In the present case the Ld. assessing
 officer has assumed the rate of interest @ 12.5 % without any basis but
 merely on assumptions and presumptions. Furthermore the Ld. Dispute
 Resolution Panel has also held that the refund amount of the assessee was
 wrongly adjusted and only actual amount of interest received from the
 Department by the associated enterprise shall be retained as an addition.
 We also do not approve the finding of the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel and
 we failed to understand what relationship the amount of interest on refund
 received by the associated enterprise have with the amount of arms length
 price of the interest on loans given by the assessee to the associated
 enterprise. In fact the interest on refund given by the revenue to the AE is
 statutory interest rates, which cannot be used for benchmarking of loan
 between two business concerns. In view of this we set aside this ground of
 appeal of the revenue back to the file of the Ld. Transfer Pricing Officer to
 determine arm‟s length price of interest in one of the prescribed method and
 in accordance with the provisions of section 92C of the income tax act.
 Further we have perused the decisions relied upon by the Ld. authorized
 representative stating that there is no international transaction in absence of
 existence of some tangible material. As we have already held that in the
 present case the parties are acting in concert with its associated enterprise
 and there is a liquidation of the assets of the assessee for paying the tax
 liability of the associated enterprise we do not find those decisions can be
 applied to the facts of this case. In view of this ground No. 4 of the appeal of
 the revenue is allowed with above direction. 13. Ground No. 5 of the appeal of the revenue is against the direction of the Ld.
 Dispute Resolution Panel in dropping the proposed addition of Rs. 3959606/- DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 on account of expenses claimed to have been incurred in relation to club
 entrance and subscription fees for the employees of the company. 14. Both the parties submitted that that the issue is identical to ground No. 5 of
 the appeal of the revenue in ITA No. 1581/del/2015 for assessment year 2010 - 2011, the reasons given by the lower authorities, and the arguments of the
 both the parties also remains the same. 15. We have carefully considered the rival contention and also perused the
 relevant material available before us and we are of the view that issue is
 identical to ground No. 5 of the appeal of the revenue for assessment year
 2010 - 2011 wherein we have held that the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel has
 correctly directed the Ld. assessing officer to delete the disallowance was
 respect to the club expenditure. For the same reasons and on the same logic
 we also hold that Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel has correctly directed the Ld.
 Transfer Pricing Officer/Ld. assessing officer to delete the disallowance with
 respect to the club expenditure amounting to Rs. 3959606/-. In the result
 ground No. 5 of the appeal of the revenue is dismissed. 16. In the result appeal filed by the revenue in ITA No. 2227//del/2014 for
 assessment year 2009-10 is dismissed. 17. Now we come to the cross objection filed by the assessee in CEO No.
 13/del/2015. 18. The ground No. 1 of the appeal of the assessee is regarding the claim of the
 expenditure of Rs. 503071947/- as deduction in the year in which the
 expenditure become infructuous. The factual matrix of the claim of the
 assessee is that ONGC had executed a production sharing contract with the
 government of India in 2004. According to that production sharing contract
 ONGC was the owner of hundred percent of the participating interest in the
 block. Thereafter in 2008, assessee and ONGC entered into an agreement
 for assignment of 25% of the participating interest by ONGC to the assessee.
 As per article No. 4.1 of that agreement assessee was required to pay ONGC
 the past cost incurred by ONGC in proportion to the interest which is Rs. DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 503071917/-. On payment of such sum the assessee claimed it as a
 deduction which was disallowed by the Ld. assessing officer holding that the
 appellant is not eligible to claim the aforesaid deduction as the appellant had
 not commenced production during the relevant year in terms of the provisions
 of section 42 of the act. The Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel upheld the
 contention of the Ld. assessing officer. Before the Ld. Dispute Resolution
 Panel the assessee submitted an alternative argument that the expenditure
 should be allowed as deduction in the financial year 2011 - 12, being the year
 in which the expenditure became infructuous. On this argument, the Ld.
 Dispute Resolution Panel stated that admittedly, the expenditure became
 infructuous in the financial year 2011 - 12, being the year in which the area
 was surrendered prior to commercial production. Therefore, no claim can be
 allowed in this year. Regarding the alternative claim of the assessee that the
 Ld. assessing officer may be directed to allow the said expenditure as
 deduction in the year in which became infructuous, It was held that it does
 not have jurisdiction to issue any such direction as Ld. Dispute Resolution
 Panel is authorized to give direction to the assessing officer with reference to
 the additions proposed in the draft assessment order against which the
 objections have been filed and not for any future assessment. 19. Before us, the Ld. authorized representative submitted that during the year
 under consideration, BGEPIL had filed a letter dated 28.04.2008 with the GOI
 containing a proposal for assignment of 25% of the participating interest by
 ONGC in the aforesaid block. This proposal was accepted by the GOI,
 Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas vide their letter dated 21.11.2008.
 Thereafter, BGEPIL and ONGC entered into a Farmout Agreement for
 assignment of 25% of the participating interest by ONGC to the assessee in
 the Block MN-DWN-2002/2. Subsequently, on 31.03.2009, BGEPIL received
 a letter from ONGC seeking reimbursement of past and interim cost. As per
 the said letter, past and interim cost amounted to Rs. 50,30,71,917. Since,
 the Indian government had provided the approval for the assignment of cost 56 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

on 21.11.2008, the liability under the Farmout Agreement was crystallized
and BGEPIL created a provision in its books of accounts while recognizing
the expenditure as Capital Work in Progress in terms of Article 4.4 of the said
Agreement. It would be pertinent to mention that the aforesaid expenditure
were in the nature of non-drilling exploration cost. Further, it was submitted
that the appellant, as per the accounting policies consistently followed, claims
all non-drilling exploration expenditure as a deduction in the year in which
such expenditure is incurred. It is submitted that while assessing the
appellant‟s taxable income, all the expenditure incurred by it for its business
would have to be considered and evaluated to determine the deductibility as
per the normal provisions of the Act (as against considering only those
expenses which are shared with the other contractors as per the
PSC). Section 37 of the Act provides for deduction of expenditure (not being
expenditure of the nature described in sections 30 to 36 and not being in the
nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the appellant) laid out
or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business. Thus,
for expenditure to be allowable under section 37 of the Act, the following
conditions need to be satisfied i)Expense should be incurred wholly and
exclusively for the purposes of the business;(ii) The expense should be
revenue in nature. In this regard, reference may be made to the decision of
the Delhi ITAT in the case of ONGC Videsh Ltd. vs. DCIT: 37 SOT 97
wherein the assessee was engaged in business of exploration and production
of hydrocarbons, incurred expenditure on purchase and evaluation of seismic
data of foreign blocks. It was held that expenditure so incurred was for
furtherance of activities undertaken by it in normal course of business and,
therefore, same was to be allowed as business expenditure. Reference was
also made to the following decisions wherein it has been held that expenses
incurred towards extension of business which was subsequently abandoned
are allowable as deduction: 20. Without prejudice, the appellant respectfully submits that the AO should have
 stated that the expenditure of Rs. 50,30,71,917 should be allowed as a
 deduction in the financial year 2011-12 viz. being the year in which the
 expenditure became infructuous (i.e. in the year in which the area was
 surrendered prior to commercial production). Accordingly, in terms of section
 42 of the Act, the appellant requests to direct the AO to allow the said
 expenditure as a deduction in the financial year 2011-12, the year in which
 the aforesaid expenditure became infructuous. 21. We have carefully considered the rival contentions. The ld Assessing Officer
 has noted that the assessee has put a note in computation of the total
 income stating that ;- ―During the financial year 2008-09, BGEPIL received approval from the
 government of India for acquiring 25 per cent participating interest in block
 MN-DWM-2002/2 and 30 percent participating interest in block KG-
 DWN/98/4 from ONGCL (refer to note-1 in schedule 12- note to financial 58 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 statements). BGEIPL has accrued a liability towards reimbursements of
 the exploration costs (Rs. 696649450/-) relating to these blocks payable to
 ONGC as on 31 March 2009 for which a deduction has been claimed as
 per the provision of section 42 of the Act.‖ 22. According to the provisions of section 42(1)(a) the assessee is eligible for
 allowance of any expenditure by way of infructuous or abortive exploration
 expenses in respect of any area surrendered prior to the beginning of
 commercial production by the assessee. Accordingly, such expenses shall be
 deductible prior to the beginning of commercial production in that block.
 According to section 42(1)(b) the assessee is entitle to deduction of
 expenditure incurred by the assessee in respect of drilling and exploration
 activities or in respect of physical assets used in that connection. Accordingly,
 all operating expenses in respect of drilling and exploration activities including
 capital expenditure shall be allowed only after beginning of commercial
 production. According to section 42(1)(c) the assessee is further allowed
 depletion of mineral oil from the year in which commercial production has
 begun. The claim of the assessee in the present case is tabulated at Para No.
 11.1.1 of the DRP as under:- 25. Hence we reject this alternative arguments of the assessee for direction to ld
 AO for granting deduction in AY 2012-13. The assessee may exercise its
 right u/s 264 of the Act or any other provisions of the law. In the result ground
 No. 1 of the cross objection of the assessee is dismissed. 26. Ground No. 2 of the cross objection is with respect to unilateral act of the
 Assessing Officer of wrongly adjusting the appellant‟s refund with the demand
 of AE which is not an international transaction and accordingly, the amount
 of interest added to the income of the appellant may be deleted. The facts
 relating to this ground of appeal are already discussed in ground No. 4 of the
 appeal of the revenue. Assessee has contested that the forced and
 unauthorized adjustment done by the Assessing Officer does not construe an
 international transaction within the meaning of section 92B of the Act. He 61 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 further submitted that clause (v) of section 92F defies the term "transaction" to
 include an arrangement, understanding or action in concert irrespective of
 same being formal or in writing or enforceable by legal proceedings. He
 further submitted that there is no understanding or arrangement. He also
 relied on the same judicial precedent, which he relied in ground No. 4 of the
 appeal of the revenue. 27. LD DR also advanced the identical argument as were raised in that ground. 28. We have carefully considered the rival contentions. While deciding ground
 No. 4 of the appeal of the revenue we have already held that above
 transaction is an international transaction under section 92B of the income tax
 act and therefore arm‟s length price of such transaction is required to be
 determined in accordance with the provisions of section 92C of the income
 tax act and set aside the issue to the file of the Ld. Transfer Pricing Officer.
 Therefore accordingly we dismiss this ground of appeal of the assessee. In
 the result ground No. 2 of the appeal of the assessee is dismissed. 29. Ground No. 3 of the cross objection of the assessee is against initiation of
 penalty proceedings under section 271 (1) (C) of the act. The above ground is
 against the initiation of the penalty proceedings and not against the levy of the
 penalty , therefore it is premature hence we dismiss the same. 30. Ground No. 4 of the appeal of the assessee is that Ld. assessing officer has
 directed to charge interest under section 234B and 234C disregarding the fact
 that the appellant is a non-resident whose income is subject to tax deduction
 at source. Before us the Ld. authorized representative and Ld. departmental
 representative raised the same arguments , which were, raised in ground
 no 9 of the appeal of the assessee for AY 2010-11 . This ground is identical to
 the ground number 9 of the appeal of the assessee for assessment year 2010 - 11. Therefore for similar reasons we set aside ground No. 4 of the appeal of
 the Assessee back to the file of the Ld. Assessing Officer to recompute the
 interest under section 234B of the act accordingly as directed by us while 62 DDIT V B G Exploration & Production India Limited
 ITA no 2227/Del/2014 & CO 13/Del/2015
 A Y 2009-10

 deciding ground no 9 of the appeal of the assessee for AY 2010-11. In the
 result ground no 4 of CO of the assessee is allowed accordingly. 31. in the result appeal of the assessee in CO No. 13/DEL/2015 for assessment
 year 2009 - 10 is partly allowed. 32. In the result appeal of the revenue and CO of the assessee for assessment
 year 2009 - 10 are partly allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 26/04/2017.