(Order of this Court was made by S.MANIKUMAR, J.)

 Fishermen Care Registered Association has filed the instant writ

 petition seeking a writ of mandamus, directing the Secretary, Ministry of

 External Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi, 1st respondent to refer

 the matter of the Human Right violations committed by the Sri Lankan

 Navy with impunity for the past 34 years against the fishermen of India to

 the International Court of Justice for taking action against the Sri Lankan

 Navy for violation of the 1974 agreement entered into between India and

 Sri Lanka. http://www.judis.nic.in 3 2. President of the abovesaid association hails from a coastal village

 of Tamil Nadu. Association is interested in the welfare of Fishermen. According to the petitioner, Human Right Violations are committed by Sri

 Lankan Navy, while fishermen engage in fishing in Palk Strait, an historic

 waters falling between India and Sri Lanka, since 1983 onwards. Petitioner has alleged Human Right violations by the Sri Lankan Navy with

 impunity for the past 34 years against fishermen of India, to the

 International Court of Justice for taking action against the Sri Lankan

 Navy for violation of the 1974 agreement. 3. On 14.09.1990, Sri Lankan Air Force opened fire against Indian

 fishing vessel in which Indian Fisherman of Tamil Nadu were killed. Since

 no action was taken by the 1st respondent, Sri Lankan Navy, has been

 committing inhuman atrocities against Indian Fishermen of Tamil Nadu

 with impunity for the past 34 years. 4. Petitioner has submitted that Indian fishermen of Tamil Nadu and

 Sri Lanka have been enjoying their traditional rights of Navigation and

 fishing in the waters of Palk Strait falling between India and Sri Lanka. Petitioner has further submitted that Article 12 of Geneva Convention

 1958 stipulates that the line of delimitation between the territorial sea of
http://www.judis.nic.in 4 the two states lying opposite to each other or adjacent to each other are

 determined based on the historic title on both sides or the principle of

 equidistance. The island of Katchatheevu has a historic significance,

 before and after, Independence of India. After Independence the Madras

 State Government by way of an order No.2093 dated 11.08.1949 declared

 Katchatheevu as Barren island under Rameswaram revenue village in

 survey No. 1250, in an area of 285 acre and 20 cents. This factual position

 was not taken into account while determining the maritime boundary in

 Palk Strait historic water between India and Sri Lanka. 5. Petitioner has submitted that during 1974 the Prime Ministers of

 India and Sri Lanka signed an agreement due to which the Indian island of

 Katchatheevu is now falling on the side of Sri Lanka. Katchatheevu was

 ceded to Sri Lanka, leaving larger area proximate to Sri Lanka, so that

 Katchatheevu is falling on the side of Sri Lanka, ignoring Article 368 of

 Indian Constitution and Article 12 of the Geneva Convention 1958. To

 protect the traditional rights of fishermen of both the countries special

 provisions Article 5 and 6 were incorporated in 1974 agreement. Article 5 of the above said agreement which was signed in 1974, by the sovereign

 powers of India and Sri Lanka, reads as follows: 6. Petitioner has submitted that customary rights of both the

 countries to engage in fishing in the historic waters were retained in the

 above said agreement, as these rights were enjoyed from time

 immemorial shall not be taken away, by any Treaty and the Hon'ble

 President of India had given his assent to the said agreement. A second

 agreement was signed on 23.03.1976, demarcating the boundary between

 the two countries, in the Gulf of Mannar and Bay of Bengal. This

 agreement sought only to define the boundary line in the area not

 covered by the earlier agreement. All other provisions of 1974 agreement

 remain valid and have not been superseded. The customary rights of the

 fishermen of both the countries in the historic waters were taken away by

 the letter of the Foreign Secretary of India, addressed to the Secretary in
http://www.judis.nic.in 6 the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs government of Sri Lanka,

 dated 23.03.1976 which reads as follows: 7. Petitioner has submitted that the Hon'ble President of India did

 not give his assent to this executive instruction. Therefore, the above

 portion of the letter issued by the Foreign Secretary, Government of

 India, taking away the traditional rights of fishing of Indian Fishermen in

 the Palk Strait protected under Article 6 of 1974 agreement signed by

 both the Prime Ministers of India and Sri Lanka and approved by the

 Hon'ble President of India is ultra vires. But taking advantage of this

 executive instruction, according to the petitioner, Sri Lankan Navy has

 been attacking the Indian fishermen who engage in fishing in Palk Strait

 between India and Sri Lanka. 8. Petitioner has further submitted that fishermen from Tamil Nadu
http://www.judis.nic.in 7 are exercising their traditional rights of fishing in the historic waters

 between India and Sri Lanka, only on the premise that such rights have

 been protected under Article 6 of the 1974 agreement. According to the

 petitioner, hundreds of fishermen were killed, several hundred crores

 worth of their properties were immersed in the ocean. Reports of the

 Indian Coast guard, as on 05.12.2013, highlight that from 1983 to

 26.11.2013 totally, 111 fisherman have been killed by the Sri Lankan Navy

 and 16 fisherman are missing or shot dead and 439 fisherman have been

 injured. Petitioner has submitted that Government of India have failed to

 protect the rights of the fishing of Indian Tamil fishermen in Palk Strait,

 conferred under Article 6 of 1974 agreement. Indian fishermen are

 arrested by Sri Lankan Navy in gross violation of Article 6 of the 1974

 agreement. 9. Petitioner has made a representation to the 1st and 2nd

 respondent on 24.04.2017 to refer the matter of human right violations

 committed by the Sri Lankan Navy with impunity for the past 34 years

 against the fishermen of India to The International Court of Justice, but

 no action has been taken by the 1st respondent. http://www.judis.nic.in 10. Petitioner has raised grounds by stating that the inaction of the 8 respondents in failing to enforce Article 6 of 1974 agreement and to

 protect the traditional fishing rights of the India fishermen who are

 affected by the attack by Sri Lankan Navy, which is in violation of Article

 19(1)(g) and Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Indian fisherman of

 Tamil Nadu are exercising their traditional rights of fishing in Palk Strait

 in the historic waters between India and Sri Lanka, on the premise that

 the same is guaranteed under Article 6 of the 1974 agreement entered

 between India and Sri Lanka. When the Indian fishermen of Tamil Nadu

 are subject to attack by Sri Lankan Navy, they are exercising their

 traditional rights of fishing in the historic waters between India and Sri

 Lanka in Palk strait, and it is the bounden duty of the 1 st respondent to

 protect their life and livelihood. A duty and obligation is cast upon the

 State under Article 21 of the Constitution of India to ensure that the

 Indian fishermen live with dignity and their traditional fishing rights are

 protected in accordance with Article 6 of the 1974 agreement. 11. Petitioner has further submitted that fishermen of Tamil Nadu

 are deprived of their right to life and livelihood when they are attacked

 by Sri Lankan Navy and their boats are damaged, nets are destroyed,

 while they exercise their traditional rights of fishing in the waters

 between India and Sri Lanka. The respondents ought to have resorted to
http://www.judis.nic.in 9 some lawful remedy, when the agreement between Indian and Sri Lanka is

 breached for protecting the life and personal liberty of citizens. On the

 above averments, the petitioner has prayed to issue a writ of mandamus

 directing the Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India,

 New Delhi, 1st respondent herein, to refer the matter of Human Right

 violations committed by Sri Lankan Navy with impunity for the past 34

 years against the fisherman of India to the International Court of Justice

 for taking action against the Sri Lankan Navy for violation of the 1974

 agreement entered between India and Sri Lanka. 12. According to the petitioner, there is violation of human

 rights. Article 6 of the 1974 agreement has been violated. There is

 violation of Article 19(1)(g) and Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The respondents have failed to take appropriate action. Though the

 petitioner has sent a representation, dated 24.04.2017 to the 1st

 respondent, to refer the matter to International Court of Justice, Geneva,

 no action has been taken and hence the writ petition, for the relief as

 stated supra. 13. Mr.G.Karthikeyan, learned Assistant Solicitor General,

 appearing for 1st respondent submitted that there is no treaty conferring
http://www.judis.nic.in 10 jurisdiction for the International Court of Justice (In short, "ICJ") to which

 India is a Party; no Special Agreement between India and Sri Lanka for

 submitting it to ICJ; and in view of the reservations entered by India in its

 Optional Declaration concerning Compulsory Jurisdiction of ICJ, there is

 no legal basis available to India for invoking ICJ’s jurisdiction in the

 present matter. Foreign policy in India is purely an executive function to

 be performed by the Central Government. Policy issues are not amenable

 to writ jurisdiction under Article 226 , as remedy under Article 226 and it

 is available only against a right which is legally protected and judicially

 enforceable. Moreover, Mandamus is issued for directing to perform, or

 refrain from performing, a particular act, the performance or omission of

 which is required by law as an obligation. He submitted that the duty

 sought to be enforced must be a duty of public nature, viz., created by a

 provision of the Constitution, or a Statute. Learned counsel further

 submitted that seeking remedies against a Foreign State, therefore, is not

 amenable under Article 226 , where, only infraction of a legal right is

 remedied. 14. Learned Assistant Solicitor General, submitted that Special

 Civil Application No. 3633 of 1999 filed by Jagjit singh Aurora and other

 Vs. Union of India, in the High Court of Gujarat, pertains to release and
http://www.judis.nic.in 11 repatriation of 54 Indian Prisoners of 1965 and 1971 Wars (PoWs) believed

 to be in Pakistan’s custody. The High Court of Gujarat pronounced its

 judgment on 23 December, 2011, wherein the Court directed the Union of

 India to approach ICJ and to pay service and retirement benefits to the

 Next-of-Kin of the PoWs, as per the extant rules, as if they retire on

 superannuation. In this connection, it may be noted that Government of

 India (in 2012) had taken a similar stand before the Hon’ble Supreme

 Court of India (C.A. No. 280/2016; SLP (C) [CC] 8471/2012; SLP (C)

 No.15664/2012) that the matter cannot be taken up before the ICJ, as it

 lacks jurisdiction. Learned Assistant Solicitor General further submitted

 that after the initial hearing, the Hon’ble Supreme Court stayed the

 direction in Para 27 (a) of the impugned judgment of the Gujarat High

 Court and the matter is still pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court. 15. According to Government of India, incidents of straying of

 fishermen in Palk Straits and Gulf of Mannar are common. Government of

 India have admitted that there have been reports that for straying into

 Srilankan territorial waters, fishermen have been apprehended or

 attacked. Government of India have also admitted that to ensure safety,

 early release and repatriation dialogues, there was dialogues between the

 countries. Government of India have also stated that steps have been
http://www.judis.nic.in 12 intensified for a permanent solution. Government of India have

 categorically stated that efforts are being taken to find a long standing

 solution to the fishermen issues. In the joint meeting, both the countries

 have agreed on the need to work out a permanent solution to the

 fishermen issues. After deliberation, the two countries have decided to

 have Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and Confidence Building

 Measures (CBMs), Government of India, have also stated that Navy and

 Coast Guard of the two countries have taken all possible measures to

 ensure that there is no physical harm or loss of life, while apprehending

 fishermen transgressing into each other's territorial waters. According to

 Government of India, exploring the possibility of introducing effective

 tracking system for the fishing vessels and making use of communication

 equipment mandatory. Government of India, have also candidly stated

 that the issue of fishermen is emotive, involving livelihood, long standing

 socio-economic practices and humanitarian concern on both sides and this

 need to be handled, with great care and sensitivity. 16. Learned Assistant Solicitor General, further submitted that in

 October 2008, both the countries have agreed on certain practical

 arrangements to deal with the issue of bona fide fishermen of either side

 crossing the IMBL. From time to time there have been reports of incidents
http://www.judis.nic.in 13 wherein Indian fishermen have been apprehended or attacked by Sri

 Lankan Navy for straying into Sri Lankan territorial waters. Government of

 India, through diplomatic channels, immediately resorted consular access

 in all such cases and also initiated dialogue with the Sri Lankan

 authorities to ensure the safety, security, early release and repatriation

 of Indian fishermen. Government of Sri Lanka in the past, has stated that

 the Sri Lankan Navy, apprehends and takes into custody Indian fishermen

 found to be in Sri Lankan waters, close to its coast. 17. Learned Assistant Solicitor General further submitted that

 Government of India has intensified the efforts to find a permanent

 solution to the fishermen issues between India and Sri Lanka. The 9th

 meeting of the India-Sri Lanka Joint Commission held on 5th February 2016

 agreed on the need to work out a permanent solution to the fishermen

 issues. It was agreed that the Minister of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources

 Development of Sri Lanka would be invited to India by the Minister for

 Agriculture and Farmers Welfare for discussions on the fishermen issues. On the request of the Sri Lankan side, a Ministerial meeting was held on

 5th November 2016 between the fisheries and foreign ministers, which was

 preceded by a Fishermen Association Meeting on 2nd November 2016. As

 agreed at the Ministerial Meeting, a Joint Working Group was constituted
http://www.judis.nic.in 14 and the first meeting was held in New Delhi on 31st December 2016. This

 was followed by the 2nd Ministerial meeting held on 02nd January 2017 in

 Colombo. These meetings made substantial progress in agreeing to a set

 of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and Confidence Building

 Measures (CBMs). 18. Learned Assistant Solicitor General further submitted that the

 JWG proposed Confidence Building Measures (CBMs) which included - Navy

 and Coast Guard of the two countries, shall take all possible measures to

 ensure that there is no physical harm or loss of life while apprehending

 fishermen transgressing into each other’s territorial waters; intensify

 cooperation on patrolling and institute periodic interaction between the

 Coast Guard of the two countries; explore the possibility of introducing

 effective tracking systems for the fishing vessels and making the use of

 onboard communication equipment mandatory. Both sides agreed to a set

 of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to expedite the release and

 handing over of fishermen in each other’s custody on completion of the

 respective legal and procedural formalities. The Sri Lankan side

 reiterated that the practice of bottom trawling needs to end at the

 earliest. The Indian side explained in detail the measures being taken by

 Government of India pending the transition towards phasing out the
http://www.judis.nic.in 15 practice of bottom trawling. However, on the issue of release of fishing

 vessels, the Sri Lankan delegation was non-committal and explained that

 they do not have the mandate to agree to anything. The second JWG

 Meeting was held in Colombo on 7 April 2017, which took stock of the

 CBMs and the implementation of SOPs. 19. Learned Assistant Solicitor General further submitted that the

 matter of apprehension and alleged incidents of attack on Indian

 fishermen have been taken up during bilateral meetings, including at the

 highest levels. During their interactions with their Sri Lankan

 counterparts, Prime Minister and External Affairs Minister have pointed

 out that the issue of fishermen is an emotive and complex one, involving

 livelihood, longstanding socio economic practices and humanitarian

 concerns on both sides and thus needs to be handled with great care and

 sensitivity. They also strongly emphasized the need to treat Indian

 fishermen humanely and for the Sri Lankan Navy not to attack or resort to

 firing under any circumstance. It has also been conveyed to the Sri Lankan

 leadership that there are no quick fixes in trying to alter socio-economic

 patterns of subsistence that have developed over decades. http://www.judis.nic.in 20. Learned Assistant Solicitor General appearing for the first 16 respondent further submitted that Under Article 36 of the Statute of the

 International Court of Justice (ICJ), the jurisdiction of ICJ is based on the

 consent of the parties. The various ways by which States may consent to

 have their disputes of a legal nature decided by the ICJ are indicated in Article 36 of the ICJ Statute and they are as follows: Once such a special agreement has been reached and
 lodged with the Court, the Court can entertain the case. 4. It is highly unlikely that Sri Lanka will enter into
 any special agreement with India for invoking ICJ
 jurisdiction.'
 ii. Compromissory clause 5. The second possibility envisaged in Article 36 ,
 paragraph 1. of the Statute is where treaties or conventions
 in force confer jurisdiction on the Court. There is a general
http://www.judis.nic.in international practice to include provisions in international 17 agreements, both bilateral and multilateral on dispute
 settlement known as compromissory clause. It stipulate that
 disputes of a given class shall or may be submitted to one or
 more methods for the pacific settlement of disputes
 including ICJ, depending upon the compromissory clause
 may provide 6. I submit that, there is no bilateral or multilateral
 treaty applicable between India and Sri Lanka which may
 confer jurisdiction over the ICJ in the matter concerning
 fishermen. Neither the 1974 and 1976 bilateral Agreements
 nor the Geneva Convention. 1958 referred to in the Writ
 Petition contain such a clause. Therefore, the ICJ
 jurisdiction cannot be invoked under these instruments. iii. Declaration Recognizing the Jurisdiction of the
 Court as Compulsory (Compulsory Jurisdiction)
 7 .I submit that, the third means of consent to the
 Court’s jurisdiction is set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 36 of the Statute: 3. The declarations referred to above may be made
 unconditionally or on condition of reciprocity on the part of
 several or certain States, or for a certain time.” 8. I submit that, it is necessary to state here that, Sri
 Lanka has not accepted compulsory jurisdiction of the ICJ.
 On the other hand, India while accepting the compulsory
 jurisdiction of the court under Article 36(2) of its Statute,
 on the basis of reciprocity, inter-alia, specifically excluded
 from the jurisdiction of the Court disputes with the
 Government of any State which is or has been a member of
 the Commonwealth of Nations (Reservation 1); and
 Reservation 10: disputes with India concerning or
 relating to: Subsequently, in 2017, in another shooting incident, a 21 year man died

 and two sustained injuries. 24. Government of Tamil Nadu have further stated that fishermen

 who stray on the other side of the International Maritime Boundary Line

 (IMBL), to pursue the fishing occupation in their traditional areas were

 harassed / attacked by Sri Lankan Navy / Miscreants in violation of the

 International Laws as specified in the United National Convention on the

 Laws of the Sea. http://www.judis.nic.in 25. Government of Tamil Nadu, in the said report, have stated 21 that the security agencies should also liaise with the Sri Lankan Navy,

 and ensure that fishermen are not harassed / attacked in violation of the

 norms laid down in the United Nations Convention on the Laws of the sea

 (UNCLOS). Among other things, Government of Tamil Nadu have stated

 that a number of steps are being taken by various departments

 concerned, in order to ensure that fishermen of Tamil Nadu, are safe and

 secure, while seeking to pursue their livelihood. 26. Government of Tamil Nadu, in the report, dated 16.08.2018,

 have stated that in order to further ensure the security and safety of

 fishermen, State Government, in coordination with the Government of

 India have introduced a scheme on Issuance of Bio-metric Identity cards

 to the Fishermen. Most of the fishermen in the State of Tamil Nadu have

 been issued with Biometric Identity cards. Government of Tamil Nadu

 along with Government of India have introduced a scheme of “online

 registration of fishing vessels”. All the fishing vessels are registered under

 this scheme. In order to ensure the safety and security of the fishermen,

 Government of Tamil Nadu have also introduced the scheme of “Seamless

 Communication Network” to the fishing crafts and it is being

 implemented. http://www.judis.nic.in 22 27. In the status report, dated 16.08.2018, Government of Tamil

 Nadu have stated that since 2011, a total of 3033 fishermen and 393

 fishing boats have been released and brought back to Tamil Nadu. As on

 16.08.2018, 29 fishermen and 177 boats are still languishing in the Sri

 Lankan custody. Year wise apprehension and release of fishermen and

 fishing boats from Tamil Nadu by the Government of Sri Lanka, are

 furnished below: 28. From the rival submissions of the petitioner association and 1st

 respondent, it could be deduced that fishing in Palk Strait and Gulf of

 Mannar, according to the petitioner has been taken away by a letter,

 dated 23.03.1976, of the Foreign Secretary to the Government of India,
http://www.judis.nic.in 23 treaties entered into between India and Sri Lanka, in 1974 and 1976

 respectively, have been breached, many fishermen have been arrested,

 439 injured and 111 fishermen killed. 29. Though the prayer sought for, is opposed on the facts and

 grounds, stated supra, from the counter affidavit of the Secretary,

 Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi, 1st

 respondent, straying and crossing International Maritime Boundary Line

 (IMBL), agreed to, between India and Srilanka, through bilateral

 agreements in 1974 and 1976, alleged by the Indian Fishermen, is the

 main cause for arrest and death. It could be seen that IOR Division of

 Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, has been recognised as

 the nodal department in handling fisheries related matters. On

 31.08.2018, we directed the first respondent to file a report, on the

 effective steps/measures taken by Government of India, to prevent

 Indian Fishermen, from crossing International Maritime Boundary Line

 (IMBL). Besides submitting a report dated 12.09.2018 on the steps taken

 through the bilateral deliberations, Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs,

 Government of India, New Delhi, 1st respondent herein, has stated as

 follows: From the report, it could be seen that Government of India have

 categorically referred to “ Blue Revolution Scheme ”, implemented by

 Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries (DADF), in

 association with Government of Tamil Nadu, from 2017, which we shall

 discuss in the latter portion of this judgment. 30. From the above, it could be deduced that besides the steps

 taken by the 1st respondent, with the Coast Guard of India, it is stated

 that ISRO was requested to develop transponders for tracking movements

 of fishing vessels. ISRO and Indian Navy have installed a few transponders

 on fishing vessels on trial basis for tracking their movements. On

 successful implementation, it was proposed to install transponders on

 large scale mainly in fishing boats of States having close proximity of

 neighbouring countries, including Tamil Nadu so as to locate their

 movements and prevent cross-border fishing activities. Government of

 Tamil Nadu have communicated a list of 1215 boats for the fitment of

 transponders to ISRO. Further, 245 upgraded units of transponders have
http://www.judis.nic.in
 been installed in the fishing boats from various coastal districts of Tamil 26 Nadu. 31. Government of India have also referred to the scheme of

 Seamless Communication of Fisheries, with the assistance, implemented

 by Government of Tamil Nadu. Government of India have also referred to

 the construction of towers. Issuance of handsets to the fishermen. 32. In our order, dated 17.09.2018, we have also recorded the

 fact that out of seven towers, construction of two towers have been

 completed and the balance five would be completed in September' 2018. Handsets of different specifications have been delivered to the

 Department of Fisheries, to be fitted in boats. Paragraphs 4 to 6 of the

 said order are extracted hereunder: 33. Mr.DIG Donny Michael, Chief Staff Officer (Operations), Coast

 Guard Region East, Chennai and Mr.G.Mathialagan, Technical Project Co- ordinator, National Agricultural Development Programme, have explained

 as to how Coast Guard Ships patrol, during day and night, towards

 maintaining internal security, prevention of smuggling and their role of

 Coast Guard, to remind the fishermen, not to cross the border. We place

 on record, the report of the above Officers, which states that with the

 existing signal/rador system, fishermen, who reach the disputed area can
http://www.judis.nic.in 28 be tracked, distance between the shore and fishing boat measured and

 warned, provided that all boats are fitted with transponders and VHF

 handsets. Thus, on the basis of the affidavit of Mr.DIG Donny Michael,

 Chief Staff Officer (Operations), Coast Guard Region East, Chennai, on

 28.09.2018, this Court passed the following order: But at times, boats which cross are signalled, not to breach.
 He further submitted that with the existing signal/rador
 system, fishermen boats reaching the disputed area can be
 tracked, the distance, measured and warned, provided that
 all boats are fitted with transponders and VHF handsets. 3. Though Mr.DIG Donny Michael, Chief Staff Officer
 (Operations), Coast Guard Region East, Chennai, has
http://www.judis.nic.in explained as to how safety measures are taken, we direct 29 him to file an affidavit, setting out all the technical details
 as well. 4. Mr.T.N.Rajagopalan, learned Government Pleader
 submitted that the issue regarding the supply of
 transponders and VHF handsets, on subsidy basis, is a policy
 matter and decision has to be taken. He further submitted
 that so far, four proto type and 241 improved versions of
 transponders have been fitted in the , on trial basis. 5. Mr.G.Karthikeyan, Assistant Solicitor General,
 Government of India submitted that as per the instructions,
 ISRO has a list of four manufacturers of transponders. 6. Details of the manufacturers and the status of MSS
 Transponder Terminals (Fishing Boat Terminals) Installation
 in sub 20 m fishing boats are extracted hereunder. (i). M/s. Anant Technology Ltd., Hyderabad (ii). M/s. Alpha Design, Bangalore (iii). M/s. Accord, Bangalore (iv). M/s. Sankhya Labs, Bangalore. 7. Mr.V.R.Raghavachari for Mr.L.P.Maurya, learned
 counsel appearing for the petitioner, Fisherman Care,
 Registered Association, Chennai, submitted that fishermen
 would be benefited, if transponders and VHF hand sets are
 fitted in all boats, which according to him would solve the
 issues of fishermen, getting entangled themselves, in that
 area.”

http://www.judis.nic.in 30 34. Thereafter, this Court, on 05.10.2018, passed the following

 orders: 35. Based on the order, dated 05.10.2018, Indian Coast Guard has

 filed a report dated 09.10.2018 and the data on the fishing boats/fish

 catch in the region (Palk Bay and GoM), as hereunder: 36. On the aspect of alleged crossing by fishermen and 32 controlling, Deputy Inspector General, working as Chief Staff Officer

 (Operations), Headquarters at Chennai, has stated that IN (Indian Navy)

 and ICG (Indian Coast Guard) patrol vessels, are unable to stop Indian

 fishing vessels, crossing the IMBL, as they venture out in large numbers, in

 night and cross the IMBL, at high speed. Coast Guard and Government of

 India, have stated that, unless the graded use of necessary deterrent

 force used, even after repeated and adequate warning is given, to stop

 the Indian Fishermen, it is highly impossible to stop them, except few

 through, interception of the fishing vessels, just before IMBL. If Coast

 Guard ship cross over, it becomes a violation, even for shepherding the

 Indian vessel back to the Indian side of the IMBL. According to Coast

 Guard, notwithstanding these, the Indian Coast Guard ships have taken

 great efforts, to prevent Indian fishing boats crossing the IMBL and it

 continues to do so, every day. 37. According to Indian Coast Guard, in the absence of any

 powers conferred on them to arrest/apprehend them, while they enter

 back to Indian side of IMBL, after fishing across the IMBL, Coast Guard

 ships, notes down the particulars of Indian fishing vessels and forward a

 letter to the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Department, to take suitable action

 against the vessel crossing the IMBL. According to Indian Coast Guard, in
http://www.judis.nic.in 33 the past six months, they have sent 02 letters indicating violation by 194

 Indian fishing boats. In addition, Sri Lankan Navy have regularly intimated

 Coast Guard, about IMBL violation by Indian fishing boats, by mentioning

 of the registration numbers of the Indian fishing boats, for suitable

 action. Said information is also passed to the TN Fisheries Authorities, for

 necessary action. 38. Though Indian Coast Guard states that it does not have the

 power to apprehend/arrest Indian Fishermen, who cross the IMBL, it is

 evident from their version that they can track them. From the counter

 affidavit of Coast Guard, it is also evident that for the past six months,

 194 fishing boats have crossed IMBL. 39. On the feasibility of fitments of transponders onboard, in Indian

 Fishing Boats, for tracking and accountability, Deputy Inspector General,

 working as Chief Staff Officer (Operations), Headquarters at Chennai,

 Coast Guard, has stated that Mechanised Fishing boats need to be fully

 equipped with basic sea going equipment such as GPS, Fish finder, VHF

 sets and life saving equipment. He has stated that most of them are

 fitted with communication sets VHF (upto 40 km range), but they are not

 fitted with Automatic Identification System (AIS), which will act as a
http://www.judis.nic.in 34 useful tool to track them. According to the Deputy Inspector General,

 working as Chief Staff Officer (Operations), Headquarters at Chennai, it is

 pertinent to mention that non-mechanized or country crafts are not fitted

 with any of the communication/ navigational equipment. Further, the

 mechanised boats (country crafts) are not registered with Fisheries

 Department and neither the department has any data on these crafts. (Distress Alert Transponders (DATS) (to be transmitted only in distress),

 developed by ISRO have been issued to fishermen at subsidized rates. Indian Coast Guard has distributed 786 DATs to fishermen. Fitment of

 Automatic Identification System (AIS) onboard the IFBs will largely

 alleviate the cross border activity and will ensure positive tracking and

 accountability of Indian fishing boats. 40. Deputy Inspector General, working as Chief Staff Officer

 (Operations), Headquarters at Chennai, in his report, dated 09.10.2018,

 has further stated that Phase I of Coastal Radar System of the Coast

 Guard, the radar station (Kilakarai) has already been activated and is

 being monitored by Coast Guard Station at Tuticorin. These shore radar

 station and ships radar, can only detect the fishing boats, but cannot

 identify them. If only the fishing boats, are fitted with AIS transponders,

 the detection and identity of the fishing boats can be ascertained. According to Coast Guard, present fitments of AIS transponder onboard
http://www.judis.nic.in 35 fishing boats are not mandatory and hence none of the fishing boats are

 fitted with AIS transponder. In the developed countries, fitment of AIS or

 other suitable transponder onboard their fishing boats is a mandatory

 requirement. 41. According to the Deputy Inspector General, working as Chief

 Staff Officer (Operations), Headquarters at Chennai, to monitor through

 other passive electronic means, in Phase II construction of shore radar

 stations, Radar Station Olaikunda at Rameshwaram and Tondi are planned

 to be commissioned by end 2019/ early 2020 would largely augment, in

 existing Indian Coast Guard efforts to enhance electronic surveillance in

 the area. According to Coast Guard, fitment of AIS onboard Indian Fishing

 Boats is a Central/ State Government policy decision and involves

 financial implications and may be taken at appropriate competent level. Fitment of VHF sets is mandatory as per state fisheries regulations for

 mechanized Indian Fishing Boats and most of them, are supplied by Tamil

 Nadu Government, under the fisheries policy of the State Government. He

 has further submitted that fitment of VHF sets onboard country crafts, is

 essentially recommended, and may be made compulsory for positive

 registration. http://www.judis.nic.in 42. On the aspect of Indian Coast Guard deployment in area of 36 responsibility, and tracking of fishing boards within 40 Kms, Deputy

 Inspector General, working as Chief Staff Officer (Operations),

 Headquarters at Chennai, has categorically stated that if Indian fishing

 boats are fitted with AIS transponders, they can be tracked. Insofar as

 grey areas and probable solutions among other, Coast Guard has

 suggested as follows: However, following gray areas are still impeding for making
 fisheries a regulated profession: 43. Based on the report filed by Indian Coast Guard, this Court on

 09.10.2018, has passed the following order: “On our request, Mr.G.K.Ramamurali,
 Scientist/Engineer (SD), working in ISRO, appeared and
 explained to us, as to how the installation of a
 transponder, in the boat would be beneficial to the
 fishermen, in receiving information, from the ground
 station, as to its position in sea. He further submitted
 that whatever information is passed on to the fishermen,
 by way of SMS, is registered and stored, in the ground
 station. He further submitted that the facility of
 Automatic Identification System which Deputy Inspector
 General, Chief Staff Officer (Operations), Coast Guard
 Region East, Chennai, has referred to in the report of the
 Coast Guard, is already available in transponder. 2. He further submitted that as on today, about
 300 transponders have been installed in the boats and by
 the end of November 2018, 500 transponders would be
 installed. According to him, all the four manufacturers of
 transponders, registered with ISRO, are capable of
 manufacturing 1,600 transponders per month. Rate of
http://www.judis.nic.in 38 transponder would be approximately Rs.40,000/- and
 depending upon the number of transponders required to
 be installed, there could be variance. He further
 submitted that the Director of Fisheries or any other
 competent authority can actually see from his computer
 the boats fitted with transponders. 3. Petitioner has sent a representation, dated
 6/10/2018, to the Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture,
 Department of Animal Husbandry Dairying & Fisheries,
 Government of India, New Delhi, The Director, Indian
 Space Research Organisation, Bangalore, the Secretary
 to Government, Department of Animal Husbandry,
 Dairying & Fisheries, Chennai and the Director of
 Fisheries, Government of Tamil Nadu, Chennai, for
 installation of transponders in all the fishing vessels of
 Rameshwaram under subsidy scheme, which is voluntary. 4. We have also gone through the provisions of Tamil Nadu Fishing Regulation Act, 1983 and the Rules
 framed thereunder. Chapter II of the Act deals with
 Regulation, Restriction of Prohibition of Fishing in the
 specified area. Schedule to Section 5 (3) of the Act sets
 out the conditions subject to which a mechanised fishing
 vessel shall carry on the fishing operations beyond 3
 nautical miles. In exercise of the powers conferred
 under Section 26 of the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing
 Regulation Act, 1983 (Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 1983), Tamil
 Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Rules, 1983, have been
http://www.judis.nic.in
 framed. As per Rule 4-B (b) (vi), VHP Communication 39 equipment for two way communication shall be provided
 in every vessel that stays at sea for more than 48 hours
 and in every vessel that travels a distance more than 50
 nautical miles from the site of the operation. 5. State of Tamil Nadu is directed to submit as to
 whether installation of transponder could be made, as
 one of the mandatory conditions for licence and to carry
 on fishing operation beyond three nautical miles. 6. Considering the tentative cost of the
 transponder, the perennial problem which the fishermen
 face all along, this Court is of the view that Government
 should come forward to provide financial assistance to
 the fishermen by extending subsidy to the maximum. 7. Mr.G.K.Rama Murali, Scientist/Engineer (SD), is
 requested to file an affidavit setting forth the functions
 of transponders, other safety and communication
 systems, from the ground stations, receipt thereof by the
 fishermen and such other details which he orally
 explained to us. Affidavit be filed by 12/10/2018. 8. Call on 12/10/2018.” 44. Based on the order of this Court dated 09.10.2018, the status

 report of the Department of Fisheries on the installation of transponders

 in fishing boats, dated 09.10.2018, is as follows: S.No Components No of No. of cluster No. of Approximate cost
 units per units
 cluster
 Unit Total
 cost cost
 (in lakh) (in lakh) 1) Satellite phone 2 80 160 1.05 168.00 2) NavIC Messaging 3 80 240 0.10 24.00
 Receiver 3) NAVTEX 2 80 160 0.60 96.00

 Under this scheme, a set of communication equipment
http://www.judis.nic.in
 (2 satellite phones, 3 NavIC and 2 Navtex instruments for 43 each cluster) to 80 clusters of boats engaged in deep sea
 fishing in Tamil Nadu will be provided. Apart from this 21
 satellite phones will be provided one each to be provided
 for Chief Secretary’s Control room, Additional Chief
 Secretary/Commissioner of Revenue Administration,
 Commissioner (DM), Director of Fisheries and 4 Harbour
 Management Committees of Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi,
 Nagapattinam, Chennai as well as for the Tamil Nadu
 Disaster Risk Reduction Agency (TNDRRA) in 13 Coastal
 District Collectorates. In accordance with the Government order, the
 Department of Fisheries has proposed to procure the
 communication equipments before the onset of North east
 monsoon, for supply to fishermen engaged in deep sea
 fishing and as well as for the use of Tamil Nadu Disaster Risk
 Reduction Agency (TNDRRA) in 13 Coastal District
 Collectorates and other official agencies involved in Disaster
 Management. It is submitted that pertaining to NavIC messaging
 receiver, 12 units has been already installed in the
 mechanized fishing boats of Chennai base by M/s. Antrix
 Corporation Ltd, Bangalore an commercial wing of Indian
 Space Research Organization (ISRO), Government of India
 for pilot study purpose. Accordingly, the Department of Fisheries has placed
 Letter of Indent for the purchase of 181 units of i-Sat phone
 with BSNL and 240 units (3 units per cluster of boats) of
http://www.judis.nic.in
 NavIC messaging receiver through 44 M/s. Antrix Corporation Ltd, Bangalore to the fishing boats
 engaged in deep sea fishing in Tamil Nadu. Further, a meeting of the technical committee
 comprising with the representatives of Indian coast Guard,
 Indian Navy, Mercantile Marine Department, Meteorological
 department and Director General of Lighthouses and
 Lightships was held on 11.10.2018 to finalize the standards
 and specifications of NAVTEX. Based on the specifications
 finalized during the technical committee meeting, action is
 being taken to float tenders for procurement of NAVTEX. This will enable the fishermen and State Authorities
 to establish contact with the fishermen in the deep sea
 fishing boats who are fishing in the deep sea beyond 50 nm.
 Any information shared from the shore through the above
 equipments to the leader boats will be shared by the leader
 boats with all the group members through VHF and with
 other group leader boats through Satellite Phone instantly.
 On successful implementation of this Pilot scheme, the
 model may be considered for expansion. It is submitted that the Government of Tamil Nadu
 accords utmost priority for the safety and wellbeing of the
 fishermen of Tamil Nadu. This Government unequivocally
 enunciate the commitment for an all inclusive growth of
 Fisheries sector in the State to provide our fishermen
 fraternity the safety, security, enhanced livelihood
 opportunities, social security and quality of life for
 fishermen by pioneering in implementing multi various
http://www.judis.nic.in
 developmental and welfare schemes in fisheries and 45 aquaculture sector. 45. Mr.Rama Murali, Scientist/Engineer-SD, ISRO Headquarters,

 while explaining installation of transponders, proof of concept, project

 being implemented in Tamil Nadu, in his affidavit dated 24.10.2018, has

 stated thus,

 “2. I submit that, when the above case came up for
 hearing before this Hon’ble court on 09.10.2018, this
 Hon’ble Court directed me to file an affidavit before this
 Hon'ble Court on Fishing Boat Transponders, Proof of
 Concept, project being implemented in Tamil Nadu, where
 500 number of sub-20m fishing boats will be fitted with the
 transponders, which facilitates two way communication
 with the monitoring points on the coast through a satellite
 link. The real time position of these fishing boats will be
 available at the monitoring points. Fishing Boat Transponder in sub 20m boats: The solution consist of a transponder unit fitted in the boat,
 with GSAT-6 satellite spectrum, an earth station hub,
 network management severs and necessary software
http://www.judis.nic.in elements. As per the directives of NCSMCS, ISRO is to 46 provide 500 transponders each to the Coastal States of
 Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. Subsequent to the completion of
 Proof of Concept (POC) implementation, ISRO would
 transfer the technology to the selected indigenous industry
 partners for production, sale and after sale support. The
 Nodal Agencies and the role and responsibilities between
 the concerned user agencies (Fisheries, Indian Navy, MHA,
 Coast Guard, etc.) need to be arrived at for the pan India
 roll out of the transponder terminals. Presently, POC
 implementation is being undertaken by re-appropriating one
 hub at ISRO (presently at Ahmadabad). However, in the long
 term, a dedicated earth station at IMAC and one-to-one
 redundant earth station with disaster recovery at ISRO,
 along with necessary data centre at both stations need to
 be planned. 4. I submit that, the transponders fitted on-board
 small vessels transmit positional information at regular
 intervals (presently fixed at 15 minutes). The detailed
 specifications and features are the annexure. The
 transmitted signals are picked by GSAT-6 and downloaded at
 ISRO’s Ahmadabad Earth Station (AES). The received
 positional information is processed and extracted through
 Network management Servers specifically developed by ISRO
 for the purpose. This information is then transferred to
 Indian Navy’s Information Management & Analysis Centre
 (IMAC), Gurgaon. The real time position of the boats is
 available for the Department of Fisheries /or other security
http://www.judis.nic.in
 agencies / rescue operation centre. An application has been 47 developed for the fishermen for interfacing with the
 transponders through Bluetooth / Wifi. A separate
 application for boat owners also been developed to monitor
 their boats and interact with the concerned fishermen. SOS
 Messaging, International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL)
 alerts, emergency warning also are possible with this
 solution. Weather, potential fishing zone (PFZ), cyclone
 warnings etc. can also be provided to the fishermen through
 this system. 5. I submit that, as on October 9, 2018, around 300
 transponders have been fitted in the coasts of Tamil Nadu.
 The activity of installation of 500 transponders each in both
 the states is expected to be completed by November 30,
 2018. The earth station augmentation activity is completed
 and the Delhi Earth Station is capable of handling upto 4
 lakh boats. Four vendors have been identified by ISRO, and
 all the necessary technology know how towards
 implementation of the transponder terminals also have been
 provided. As on today, the production rate of transponders
 is tentatively 100 per week (all four vendors together),
 which can be scaled up depending on the requirement. First
 version of the application platforms have been released,
 user feedback has been taken and enhanced features are
 being included.” 46. Based on the affidavit filed, on 25.10.2018, this Court passed
http://www.judis.nic.in
 the following order: 5. Letters of the Under Secretary to Government of
 India, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Animal
 Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi,
 dated 29.07.2015 exchanged between the Animal
 Husbandry, Dairy Development & Fisheries Department,
 Government of Tamil Nadu and the Pay & Accounts Officer,
 Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries,
 16, Akbar Road Hutments, New Delhi - 110 011, are
 reproduced hereunder: 2. The Administrative approval for continuation of the
 CSS on Development of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure and
 Post Harvest Operations as Central Sector Scheme during
 the financial year 2015-16 has been notified vide this
 Ministry's letter No.33015-3/2007-Fy(H) Vol.II dated 2nd
 July, 2015. 3. The approval is subject to the following terms and
 conditions: http://www.judis.nic.in
 (TAFCOFED), as proposed by the State Department of 52 Fisheries. (v) The State Government will furnish physical and
 financial progress reports to the Department of Animal
 Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture on
 a quarterly basis. The State Government will also submit
 utilization certificate as per the prescribed proforma soon
 after utilization of the Central funds. (vi) The implementing agency/Department will
 maintain proper accounts of the expenditure incurred and
 submit the statement of expenditure to this Department as
 soon as possible after utilization of the funds. (vii) The accounts regarding release of funds and their
 utilization shall be open to inspection by the sanctioning
 authority and audit, both by the Comptroller and Auditor
 General of India and Internal Audit of the Principal Accounts
 Office of this Ministry. 4. This issues with the concurrence of the Integrated
 Finance Division vide their Diary No.380/AS&FA/2015 dated
 24th July, 2015. Yours faithfully,

 (Yoginder Kumar)
 Under Secretary to the Government of India

 No.12014-1/2013-Fy (T-1)
 Government of India
 Ministry of Agriculture
 Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries
http://www.judis.nic.in
 Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 53 Dated the 29th July, 2015

 To
 The Pay & Accounts Officer,
 Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries
 16, Akbar Road Hutments,
 New Delhi - 110 011

 Sub:- Release of funds to the Government of Tamil Nadu for
 implementation of the component on Safety of fishermen at
 sea under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Development
 of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure & Post Harvest
 Operations, which is implemented as Central Sector Scheme
 during the year 2015-16. Sir,
 I am directed to convey the sanction of the President
 for release of 1st installment of central grant-in-aid of
 Rs.2,00,00,000/- (Rupees two crore only) to the
 Government of Tamil Nadu for procurement and supply of
 Distress Alert Transmitters (DATs) to the fishermen/fishing
 vessels of the State under the component on Safety of
 fishermen at sea of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme on
 Development of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post
 Harvest Operations, which is implemented as Central Sector
 Scheme during the financial year 2015-16. 2. The administrative approval for continuation of the
 Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Development of Marine
 Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post Harvest Operations as
 Central Sector Scheme during 2015-16 has been notified
 vide this Ministry's letter No.33015-3/2007-Fy (H) Vol.II
http://www.judis.nic.in 54 dated 2nd July, 2015. 3. The administrative approval of Government of
 India to the proposal of Government of Tamil Nadu for
 procurement and supply of 30,000 Distress Alert
 Transmitters (DATs) under the CSS has been notified vide
 this Ministry's order of even number dated 29th July, 2015. 4. The accounts regarding release of funds and their
 utilization shall be open to inspection by the sanctioning
 authority and audit, both by the Comptroller and Auditor
 General of India and internal Audit of the Principal Accounts
 Office of this Ministry. 5. The Central grant sanctioned above is debited to
 the Major Head - 3601, Grants-in-aid to State Governments
 (Major Head); 03-Grants for Central Plan Scheme (Sub-
 major Head); 632-Fisheries-Marine Fisheries (Minor Head);
 04 Blue Revolution; 01-Development of Marine Fisheries,
 Infrastructure and Post Harvest Operations; 040131-Grants-
 in-aid-General in Demand No.3 of the Department of Animal
 Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries during 2015-16 (Plan). 6. No utilization certificate is pending with the
 Government of Tamil Nadu under safety of fishermen at sea
 component of the scheme, as this is the first project
 sanction under this component. 7. This sanction has been noted at Serial No.8/Reg-
 I/CSS-Marine/Grants/2014/FY-2015-16 in the Register of
 grants as stipulate in GFR 212-4(b). 8. This issues with the concurrence of the Inegrated
http://www.judis.nic.in
 Finance Division vide their Diary No.380/AS&FA/2015 dated 55 24th July, 2015. Yours faithfully,

 (Yoginder Kumar)
 Under Secretary to the Government of India

 Copy to:- http://www.judis.nic.in 7. Fishermen from the Regions of Nagapattinam, 56 Ramanathapuram, Rameswaram and Kanyakumari are
 stated to have been affected and therefore, we are of the
 view that transponders have to be installed, in a
 phased/periodical manner, in the above said areas, where
 approximately, 3000 boats are said to be in operation. 8. Considering the said number, and the tentative
 cost of Rs.40,000/- quoted earlier before us, ISRO, is
 directed to negotiate with the four manufacturers, on the
 cost of transponders to be fitted. There are about nearly
 30,000 boats in the whole of the State and therefore, cost
 could be fixed depending upon the number.” 47. Based on the e-mail, dated 31.10.2018, addressed to

 Mr.G.Karthikeyan, learned Assistant Solicitor General, this Court on

 02.11.2018, has passed the following order: 3. Secretary to the Government, Department of
 Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries Department, Fort
 St. George, Chennai - 600 009, in consultation with
 Secretary to the Government, Finance Department, is
 directed to act accordingly. Government of Tamil Nadu, is
 directed to come out with a clear cut decision on the extent
 of subsidy." 48. Due to Administrative reasons, the case was posted before

 other Hon'ble Bench and the Court on 26.11.2018, passed the following

 order: 49. When the matter came up for hearing on 02.01.2019, a Hon'ble

 Division Bench observed as follows: 50. Again, when the matter was listed before this Court on

 11.02.2019, learned Additional Government Pleader for the State

 produced a letter written by the Department of Fisheries, to the Under

 Secretary (IOR), IOR Division, Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi. Letter reads thus: http://www.judis.nic.in 19/29, dated 12.11.2018 of the Deputy General Manager 61 (EB), BSNL, Chennai. 5. Lr. No. EBU/TN/Fisheries-ISAT Phone/2018-
 19/46, dated 26.12.2018 of the Deputy General Manager
 (EB), BSNL, Chennai. 6. E-mail received from the Under Secretary,
 IOR Division, Ministry of External Affairs, GOI, dated
 18.01.2019. 7. This office letter No. 3397/J5/2018, dated
 23.01.2019 addressed to the Dy.General Manager (EB),
 BSNL, Chennai. 8. Lr. No.EBU/TN/Fisheries- ISAT Phone/2018-
 19/62, dated 30.01.2019 of the Deputy General Manager
 EB), BSNL, Tamil Nadu Circle, Chennai-6. *****
 I invite your kind attention to the reference 6th cited.
 In response to the message cited in the reference 6th
 cited, I furnish the details as follows: Reply : This will enable the fishermen and State Authorities
 to establish contact with the fishermen in the deep Sea
 fishing Boats who are fishing in the deep sea beyond 50 nm.
 Any information shared through the above equipment to the
 leader boats will be shared by the leader boats with all the
 group members through VHF. In accordance with the G.O
 ana' the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) is the Government
 agency providing satellite phone service in India, purchase
 order for the supply of 181 ISAT Phone-2 including 21
 satellite phones, one each to be provided for Chief
 Secretary’s Control room, Additional Chief Secretary/
http://www.judis.nic.in
 Commissioner of Revenue Administration, Commissioner 64 (DM), Director of Fisheries and 4 Harbour Management
 Committees of Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Nagapattinam,
 Chennai as well as for the Tamil Nadu Disaster Risk
 Reduction Agency (TNDRRA) in 13 Coastal District
 Collectorates. M/s. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) have
 supplied 181 units of ISAT Phone-2 to this department for
 the distribution to the fishermen beneficiaries of 80 clusters
 of boats and for the use of Chief Secretary’s Control room,
 Additional Chief Secretary/ Commissioner of Revenue
 Administration, Commissioner (DM), Director of Fisheries
 and 4 Harbour Management Committees of Kanniyakumari,
 Thoothukudi, Nagapattinam, Chennai as well as for the
 Tamil Nadu Disaster Risk Reduction Agency (TNDRRA) in 13
 Coastal District Collectorates 2. Since, the conversation on Satellite phones could
 not be traced and if the fishermen are permitted to use
 the same, it may cost heavily on the safety and security
 of the Nation especially after the Mumbai attack. In this
 regard, how could the Government trace or monitor the
 conversations made through the satellite phones, which
 may affect the safety and security of the nation
 Reply: 2. Responding to the above, Under Secretary (IOR)
 Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi, has also raised
 doubts, vide e-mail dated 18.01.2019 to the State
 Government. Thereafter, the Department of Fisheries vide
 letter No.3397/J5/2018 dated 23.01.2019, has addressed a
 letter to the Deputy General Manager, BSNL, Chennai,
 seeking clarifications. http://www.judis.nic.in 3. Answering the doubts raised with reference to the 67 queries posed by this Court and also the issue raised by the
 Under Secretary (IOR) Ministry of External Affairs, New
 Delhi vide email dated 18.01.2019, Dy. General Manager
 (EB), BSNL, Tamilnadu Circle, Chennai has written a reply
 dated 30.01.2019 to Mr.Dr.D.S.Sameeran, IAS, Director of
 Fisheries, Integrated Office Complex, Nandanam, Chennai,
 which reads thus,
 "Sir,
 With reference to your letter cited above, reply for the
 queries / explanation raised by Hon'ble High Court, Madras
 is given below. 1. Whether there is any truth in the news article and
 if the Central Government is planning to provide Satellite
 phone to the fishermen. The implication of the same: 2. Since the conversation on satellite phones could
 not traced and if the fishermen are permitted to use the
 same, it may cost heavily on the safety and security of the
 nation especially after the Mumbai attack. In this regard,
 how could the Government trace or monitor the
 conversations made through the Satellite phones, which
 may affect the safety and security of the nation. Reply: The GPS Services being provided by BSNL has
 its Lawful interception and Monitoring system for all the
http://www.judis.nic.in
 designated security agencies / LEA, as per Standard 68 Operating Procedure (SOP), issued by DOT, Govt. of India
 for providing lawful monitoring / interception of
 communication. The Satellite Gateway situated at Ghaziabad for BSNL
 GSPS Services is connected to mobile network MSC (Mobile
 Switching Centre) and Lawful Interception System (LIS) of
 BSNL Mobile network at Meerut. The conversation done by
 the ISAT Phones satellite communication within the Indian
 territory is fully traceable and monitored in a similar way as
 it is done for normal mobile phones. With GEO-Fencing
 implemented, the phones will not work outside Indian
 territory. All norms of Government of India / MHA in this
 regard are complied and tested in presence of Law
 Enforcing Agencies (LEAs) before launch of this Satellite
 phone service by BSNL in May 2017. 4. On 30.01.2019, Under Secretary (IOR) Ministry of
 External Affairs, New Delhi, has written to
 Mr.G.Karthikeyan, learned Assistant Solicitor General of
 India, Madras High Court, which reads thus. Reference your e-mail message dated 18 January
 2018 regarding inputs on aspects relating to providing of
 Satellite phones to Indian fishermen. The Department of
 Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries (DADF) is the nodal
http://www.judis.nic.in
 department at the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers 69 Welfare having mandated with all matter related to
 fishermen issues and therefore, this Ministry has sought
 inputs from DADF. 2. DADF has conveyed that the Integrated
 Development and Management of Fisheries being
 implemented by the Department provides financial
 assistance for supply of safety kits to the fishers / fishing
 vessels t ensure safety at sea. These safety kits include
 GPS communication equipment, echo-sounder, life jackets,
 life buoys, distress alert transmitter (DAT), life saving
 appliances, (VHF radio telephones), fish finder, back up
 battery, search and rescue beacon etc. 3. Based on the directives of National Committee for
 strengthening Maritime and Coastal Security (NCSMCS), the
 Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has undertaken a Proof of
 Concept (POC) pilot study to evaluate the transponders
 technology developed by the ISRO. In this regard, ISRO has
 informed that 1050 MSS based transponder terminals are
 being installed in sub 20 meter fishing vessels in Tamil
 Nadu, Gujarat (500 terminals each) and Puducherry (50
 terminals). It may be added that the transponder are
 wireless satellite based communication devices considered
 for fitment onboard the fishing vessels by the MHA / ISRO
 Ahmedabad Earth Station (AES) hub (Capable of handing
 upto 4000 terminals) in supporting POC terminals.
 Subsequently, the operations will be migrated to the Delhi
 Earth Station (DES). http://www.judis.nic.in 4. DADF has conveyed that meetings were convened 70 by ISRO / MHA at Chennai and Porbandar to get the user
 feedbacks on the fitted terminals and to provide the live
 demonstration of the terminals and their features.
 Features of two-way messaging, emergency alerts,
 multilingual display, power saving mode etc., as per the
 user feedback have been incorporated. Android
 applications are being provided to the fishermen and boat
 owners, along with the terminals. Following is the present
 status of the POC implementation. Presently, 50 terminals are ready for installation.
 Keeping in view of availability of boats for installation and
 field conditions, the installation work is expected to be
 completed soon. 5. Minister of Home Affairs, has conveyed that they
 have no plans to provide satellite phones to fishermen.
http://www.judis.nic.in 71 6. After the said reply from the General Manager,
 BSNL dated 30.01.2019, Director of Fisheries, Chennai along
 with his letter dated 30.01.2019, addressed to the the
 Under (IOR), Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi, has
 enclosed a copy of the BSNL letter dated 30.01.2019,
 extracted supra. 7. From the above, it could be seen that there is no
 security threat in using satellite phones as the same would
 not work outside Indian territory. All norms of Government
 of India and Ministry of Home Affairs have been complied
 with. Satellite phone is tested in the presence of law
 enforcing agencies. Satellite phone is also fully traceable
 and manageable as a normal mobile phone. 8. Government of Tamilnadu have sanctioned a sum
 of Rs.3,10,05,000/- from the State Distress Response Fund
 to the Director of Fisheries for procurement of satellite
 phones and other equipments. In view of the specific reply
 of BSNL, supply of satellite phones and other equipments be
 continued, as per the decision of the State Government.
 Insofar as installation of transponders on boats, Director of
 Fisheries has submitted a note which is extracted. Note
 shall be part of record. Based on the decision taken during the meeting
 convened by Principal Secretary to Prime Minister held on
 05.05.2017, trials of the transponders developed by Indian
 Space Research Organization (ISRO) using the GSAT-6 under
 the scheme proposed by Ministry of Home Affairs,
http://www.judis.nic.in
 Government of India were conducted in the fishing boats 72 operated in the State of Tamil Nadu and Gujarat in
 association with Indian Navy. Further, as requested by GOI, a list of 550 fishing
 boats operating in Palk Bay areas and in addition list of 665
 nos of fishing boats operated in West Coast was furnished to
 Government of India for undertaking the proposed pilot
 study with the fitment of small and low powered satellite
 based transponders compatible with GSAT-6. Accordingly, in the 1st phase Proto model
 transponders fitted in the mechanised fishing boats of
 districts of Chennai and Kanniyakumari Districts by ISRO for
 conduct of pilot study. In continuation, a stakeholder consultation was
 convened on 10.4.2018 and 25.09.2018 at Chennai by ISRO /
 DOS for demonstration of transponders developed by
 ISRO/DOS for fishing vessels less than 20m OAL and to
 evolve Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). The changes
 suggested by the stakeholders were incorporated and
 upgraded version of transponders was fitted in 507
 mechanized fishing boats as detailed below:- http://www.judis.nic.in Ahmedabad Earth Station (AES) hub (Capable of 75 handling upto 4000 terminals) is supporting POC terminals.
 Subsequently, the operations will be migrated to the Delhi
 Earth Station (DES). Meetings were convened at Chennai and Porbandar
 to get the user feedback on the fitted terminals and to
 provide the live demonstration of the terminals and their
 features. Features of two-way messaging, emergency
 alerts, multilingual display, power saving mode etc , as
 per the user feedback have been incorporated. Android
 applications are being provided to the fishermen and boat
 owners, along with the terminals. Following is the present status of the POC
 implementation: http://www.judis.nic.in
 A detailed field study was carried out to address and 76 analyze the issues reported by Dept, of Fisheries, Tamil
 Nadu about the battery draining within 30 minutes and the
 interference of transponders with the l-com terminals,
 and following are the conclusions: Discussions with boat owners, association reps, dept
 of fisheries officials were carried out to understand the
 nature of observations. It is seen that the boat battery
 supports VHF l-com units, all other boat resources and the
 MSS transponders. Measurements and demonstrations
 were carried out to address all the issues raised by the
 users. Battery drains out within 30 minutes related: transponder including
 dedicated power supply ii) Contingency for other Rs.10,000/- 5) The financial commitment of Governments for
 distribution of 5500 Nos. of Transponder units and accessories
 are as follows:- The total requirement of funds for distribution of 5500
 units of Transponder and accessories to be sanctioned by
 Government of India is Rs.24,75,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Four
 Crore and seventy five lakh only) and by Government of Tamil
 Nadu is Rs.4,95,00,000/- (Rupees Four crore and ninety five
 lakh only) over a period of 7 years. 6) It is imperative to state here that the Hon'ble High
 Court of Madras in its judgement order dated 20.02.2019 in
 W.P. No.14156 of 2017 has directed the Government of Tamil
 Nadu to address Government of India within one week from
 20.02.2019, if not done earlier and that Ministry of Animal
 Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Government of India, is
 directed to respond within one week from the date of receipt
 of the proposals from Government of Tamil Nadu. The Hon'ble
 High court of Madras posted the case on 27.02.2019. 7) I am, therefore, to request you to move the
 Government of India and accord approval on the following
 towards fitment of Transponder Units in mechanized fishing
 boats by providing subsidy assistance from sub-component of
 "Safety of Fishermen at Sea" under Centrally Sponsored
 Scheme of Blue Revolution :- 8) An early order is solicited in this regard. Yours faithfully,

 (A.K. Zakira Bibi)
 Under Secretary to Government,
 for Principal Secretary to Government." 2. Transponders have to be provided immediately and
 it cannot be stretched for a period of 7 years. ISRO/Manufacturers can always be requested to provide
 more number of transponders depending upon their
 capacity. 3. In such circumstances, Government of Tamil Nadu,
 is directed to provide transponders in the fishing boats of
 Tamil Nadu, not in a phased manner, stretching for 7 years,
 but depending upon the number of Transponder Units
 manufactured and duly tested by ISRO. 4. Government of Tamil Nadu, is directed to address
 the Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and
 Fisheries, Government of India, New Delhi, with a copy
 marked to ISRO and Manufacturer of Transponders.
http://www.judis.nic.in 5. Post on 11.03.2019. ” 89 59. When the matter came up for hearing on 11.03.2019, this

 Court passed the following orders,

 Pursuant to our order dated 04.03.2019, Principal
 Secretary to Government, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and
 Fisheries Department, Secretariat, Chennai-600 009 has
 written a letter No.3106/FS-6/2019-3, dated 08.03.2019 to
 the Joint Secretary, Government of India, Department of
 Fisheries, New Delhi-110001, which reads as follows: In continuation of the Government letter third cited, I
 am directed to state that the W.P.No.14156 of 2017 came
 up for hearing on 4.3.2019 and on perusal of the proposal of
 Government of Tamil Nadu submitted to the Government of
 India in the reference third cited, the Hon’ble High Court
 has directed as follows:- The case is posted for hearing on 11.03.2019.”
 In this connection, I wish to state that subsidy
 assistance is available under the sub component of "Safety
 of Fishermen at Sea under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme
 of Blue Revolution: Integrated Development and
 Management of Fisheries, the unit cost of Rs.2.00 lakh for
 safety kit shall be approved and the safety kit shall consist
 of GPS, Communication equipments, Echo Sounder, Life
 buoys, Life Jackets, Distress Alert Transmitters, Lifesaving
 appliances, Very High Frequency Radio Telephone
 depending upon the size of the fishing vessel. The Hon’ble
 Court has observed that the process of installing
 transponders, which has the capacity to aid in the
 protection of fisherman, among the other things, ought not
 to be delayed or prolonged by seeking to implement the
 same over a period of 7 years. The Hon'bie Court has
 observed that, the same ought to be done expeditiously. 2. The fitment of transponders in a fishing boat,
 being a life line for safety at deep sea and real time
 monitoring device, I request you to reconsider the proposal
 of this Government sent in the reference third cited and
 arrange to move the Government of India to accord
 approval for implementing the scheme of fitment of
 Transponder Units with dedicated power source as a special
 scheme with 75% subsidy from Government of India, 15%
http://www.judis.nic.in
 subsidy .from Government of Tamil Nadu and 10% 92 beneficiary contribution at a-total outlay of
 Rs.33,00,00,000/- (Rupees Thirty three crore only) for the
 fitment of Transponder units and accessories to 5500 fishing
 boats of Tamil Nadu expeditiously as per the orders of
 Hon’ble High Court of Madras dated 04.03.2019. Further I
 request you to expedite the release of funds and Indian
 Space Research Organisation may be requested to speed up
 the production of transponders so that the process can be
 completed immediately. 3. An early approval is solicited in this regard. Yours faithfully,
 Sd/- for Principal Secretary to Government. Mr.E.Manoharan, learned Additional Government
 Pleader submitted that the order dated 04.03.2019 of this
 Court, has been sent to the first respondent. Learned
 counsel for the Union of India submitted that the subsidy
 sought for has to be paid by the 1st respondent Central
 government and concurrence of the Finance department of
 the Government is required. First respondent has sought
 time till 19.03.2019 for appropriate action by the first
 respondent and Finance department.” 60. Proceedings, dated 18.03.2019, of the Department of

 Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of
http://www.judis.nic.in 93 India, New Delhi, addressed to the Principal Secretary, Government of

 Tamil Nadu, Animal Husbandary, Dairying and Fisheries Department,

 Secretariat, Chennai 600 009, is extracted hereunder: 5. Under the circumstances stated above, this Department is
 not in a Position to consider the proposal of Government of
 Tamil Nadu for fitment of a total 5500 Nos Transponders in
 the mechanised fishing boats at a total cost of Rs. 33 crore
 with central share of Rs 24.75 crore in its present form. Yours faithfully,
 sd/- (Shankar L)
 Joint Commissioner
 (Fisheries) 61. In Proceedings No.27035-19/2015-Fy (IV), Vol,II, Government

 of India, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Department of

 Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, have framed polices, named as

 'Blue Revolution". Setting out the Vision, Mission, Objectives, Strategy - Central Sector Assistance Schemes, Central Financial Assistance,
http://www.judis.nic.in
 Implementing Agencies etc., Admissibility of Central Financial Assistance, 97 policy has been evolved by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers

 Welfare, Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, and

 they are dealt with Clause 13 of Blue Revolution. Scheme, contemplates

 the mode of financial releases, monitoring and evaluation etc. 62. Keeping in mind, what the Central Government have stated that

 there are proposals, under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme, and what the

 State Government ought to have proposed, though the Blue Revolution

 Scheme deals with different components, as stated supra, we are

 concerned only with, "Motorization of Traditional Craft", Safety of

 Fishermen at Sea, Assistance to Traditional/Artisanal fishermen for (a)

 procurement of FRP boats upto 10m OAL, as a replacement for

 traditional/wooden boats including nets (b) procurement of insulated fish

 and ice holding boxes, rebate on High Speed Diesel (HSD) for fishers, etc,

 will be provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare,

 Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, and in

 particular, establishment and operation of Fishing Monitoring System

 (VSM). 63. In the foregoing orders, we have dealt with the safety of

 fishermen at Sea, providing safety kits which shall consist of GPS,
http://www.judis.nic.in 98 communication equipments, echo sounder, Distress Alert Transmitters,

 under the Blue Revolution of DADF etc., and sharing of the unit cost

 between Union of India and States. But the Central Government have

 categorically stated that safety kit estimation of Rs.2 lakhs per kit, would

 not include transponders. 64. Blue Revolution Scheme, framed by the Ministry of Agriculture

 and Farmers Welfare Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and

 Fisheries, Government of India deals with Establishment and Operation of

 Vessel Monitoring System (VMS), Actual Cost, Financial Assistance, etc.

 For brevity, we deem it fit to extract, paragraph No.1.5 of the Appendix-I

 to the scheme, [Development of Maritime Fisheries, Infrastructure and

 post Harvest operations]

 Sl.No Component Unit Cost Central Terms and
 financial Conditions
 assistance (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)
 1.5 Establishment & Actual 100% cost (i) FSI/DADF is nodal
 operation of Cost of project agency to
 Vessel Monitoring implement implement the
 System (VMS) ed by project. DADF. 65. Perusal of the scheme and Appendix-I, in particular, makes it

 clear that, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department of

 Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Government of India, is

 committed to financially assist the fishermen, through the establishment

 and operation of Vessel Monitoring System (VMS). 66. Let us consider, what the Principal Secretary to Animal

 Husbandry, Dairying, and Fisheries Department, Government of Tamil

 Nadu, in his letter, dated 28.03.2019, addressed to the Chief Executive
http://www.judis.nic.in 101 Officer, National Fisheries Department, Government of Telengana,

 Hyderabad, has stated as follows: http://www.judis.nic.in
 Fy(H), dated 18.03.2019. 7. From the Director of Fisheries Letter
 No.7308/J3/2016, dated 27.03.2019. ----- I invite your kind attention to the captioned subject and to
 state that pursuant to a W.P.No.14156 of 2017 filed before the
 Hon'ble High Court of Madras, and subsequent directions of the
 Court dated 20.02.2019 and 04.03.2019, a proposal has been sent
 to the Government of India, Ministry of Agriculture, Department
 of Fisheries, vide reference 3rd cited to accord both
 administrative approval and financial sanction for fitment of
 5,500 units of transponders with dedicated power source with 70%
 subsidy from Government of India, 15% subsidy from Government
 of Tamil Nadu and 10% beneficiary contribution at a cost of Rs.33
 crore and to release their share of Rs.24.75 crore to this
 Government expeditiously so as to provide transponders in the
 fishing boats of Tamil Nadu, depending upon the number of
 Transponder Units manufactured and duly tested by ISRO. 2. In the reference 6th cited, the Department of Fisheries,
 Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India
 has informed that the subsidy sharing pattern for beneficiary
 oriented components of the inland and marine fisheries under
 Centrally Sponsored Scheme have been as per the existing order
 i.e. for any proposal, the subsidy will be limited to 40% of the
 project cost for General Category beneficiaries and 60% of the
 project cost for SC/ST beneficiaries and that the proposal is silent
 about the approval of State Level Monitoring and Approval
 Committee (SLMC) and recommendation of the National Fisheries
 development Board (NFDB), and on the outcome of proof of
 concept trial and efficacy of the proposed transponders. 3. In this connection, I wish to state that the fitment of
http://www.judis.nic.in 103 transponders in the fishing boats is being considered to avoid the
 possibilities of fishing dispute between India and Sri Lanka. 507
 transponders have been installed in the fishing boats of Tamil
 Nadu at free of cost on trial basis. The tentative cost of the unit
 being Rs.60,000/- this instrument in its present form may not be
 found useful by the fishermen and hence there could be
 possibility of reluctance to install it in their boat spending higher
 contribution i.e., Rs.36,000/-. Hence, the fishermen shall be
 provided with higher percentage of subsidy as an incentive for the
 fitment of transponders. The Department of Animal Husbandry,
 Dairying and Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers
 Welfare, Government of India in Letter No.27035-19/2015-Fy(IV)
 Vol.II, issued Guidelines for the implementation of Schemes under
 Blue Revolution : Integrated Development and Management of
 Fisheries. Under Sl.No.1.5 of the heading Development of Marine
 Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post-Harvest Operations, it has been
 mentioned that the Establishment and Operation of Vessel
 Monitoring System (VMS) will be implemented with 100% cost of
 project implemented by Department of Animal Husbandry,
 Dairying and Fisheries (DADF) with the following term and
 conditions: 6) I therefore request you to recommend the proposal
 approval by State Level Monitoring and Approval Committee,
 Government of Tamil Nadu, to the Central approval and
 Monitoring Committee for approval and financial sanction at the
 earliest. http://www.judis.nic.in 106 Yours faithfully,

 for Principal Secretary to Government. 67. Government of India, have also made it clear that 100% cost

 of project, would be implemented by the Department of Animal

 Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries. It includes (i) FSI/DADF as the nodal

 agency to implement the project; (ii) Maintenance and operational costs

 of the Hub-station, antenna and all other equipment developed/installed

 at Porbandar and (iii) Monitoring and tracking of fishing vessels using

 space technology and IT tools. 68. The petitioner has made averments in support of the prayer

 sought. Union of India, represented by the Secretary to the Government

 of India, External Affairs, New Delhi, has filed a detailed counter

 affidavit, opposing the maintainability of the writ petition, details of the

 treaties between the Governments and also explained the steps taken by

 the Government of India. Government of Tamil Nadu have filed a status

 report, dated 16.08.2018. 69. With reference to the prayer sought for, we have extracted

 what the contesting parties have stated. Taking note of the decisions of

 the Hon'ble Apex Court, Writ Court is empowered to take suo-motu writ
http://www.judis.nic.in 107 petitions on the consideration of credible and acceptable evidence on

 record and going through the entire material on record, we are of the

 view that “safety and security of Indian Fishermen” is real public interest

 involved in this writ petition. 70. In the foregoing paragraphs, we have extracted the version of

 Coast Guard, ISRO, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare

 Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Government of

 India and Government of Tamil Nadu, that installation of suitable

 communication devices/transponders and other essential equipment etc.,

 would be in the safety and security of fishermen. 71. Arrests, death, capturing of Indian Fishing Boats, damage

 caused are mainly due to transgressing International Maritime Border

 Line. Treaties have been entered into between India and Srilanka. Fishermen claim traditional rights of fishing in Gulf of Mannar and Palk

 Strait. Whereas, treaties earmark a boundary line. Indian fishermen are

 stated to have engaged in bottom trawling in the abovesaid areas, which

 is prohibited by Srilankan Government. Claiming traditional rights in

 Katcha Theevu is one of the issues. The long standing problem of Indian

 Fishermen crossing the International Maritime Border Line is the main
http://www.judis.nic.in 108 cause, which remains to be solved. 72. Reading of the counter affidavit makes it clear that to locate

 the movements of fishermen, and to prevent cross bordering,

 Government of Tamil Nadu have communicated to the Central

 Government, a list of 1215 boats be fitted with transponders. Towers

 were decided to be erected with World Bank assistance. On the aspect, as

 to violation of crossing the permissible limits and establishment of

 towers, Government of India, in their status report, dated 17.09.2018,

 have stated thus,

 "3. Deputy Secretary (Sri Lanka), Ministry of External
 Affairs, New Delhi, has further submitted that, (2) with the
 assistance of World Bank, construction of towers, is also
 under progress. Out of 7 new towers, 2 towers have been
 completed and the remaining 5 towers are in progress.
 Construction of remaining towers, is expected to be
 completed in September' 2018 and would be operationalised.
 Handsets of different specification have been delivered to
 the Department of Fisheries, to be fitted in boats." 73. It is the duty of the State to make available a safe environment,

 safety and security to the Indian Fishermen, in exercise of their rights,

 under Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India. 'Public safety' ordinarily
http://www.judis.nic.in 109 means security of the public or their freedom from danger. Right to life,

 under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, is a right to live with dignity

 and safety. Governments are duty bound to ensure meaningful fulfillment

 of rights. Rise in arrest, deaths, have certainly impinged upon right to

 life, inbuilt in Article 21 of the Constitution of India. On the facts and

 circumstances of the case, the main contributing factor is cross bordering

 (IMBL), by fishermen. 74. During the course of hearing of this writ petition, we have

 heard the Coast Guard and ISRO, who have candidly submitted, as to how,

 installation of transponders and other safety equipments would enable

 Coast Guard to track the Indian Fishing Boats, warn them, if they attempt

 to cross the IMBL and thus, their security and safety could be protected. 75. While negotiation between the countries, with the

 participation of fishermen, may arrive at a solution, technological

 solution, on the aspect of cross bordering, tracking the Indian Fishermen,

 who cross the IMBL, warning them, if they cross, danger involved have

 been explained and extracted supra. Though awareness is created, still

 some may ignore the warning. From the version of Coast Guard and ISRO,

 by installation of transponders and other safety equipments on the Indian
http://www.judis.nic.in 110 Fishing Boats, fishermen could be prevented from crossing the border. 76. On the facts of the case, we are not delving into the rights of

 the fishermen to fish in Palk Strait and Gulf of Mannar, as the matter is

 pending in the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Indian Fishermen need a

 permanent and long lasting solution. It is evident from the version of

 Coast Guard and ISRO, that there is a technological solution to the

 problem faced by the Government and Indian Fishermen. If fishing boats

 are provided with transponders and other safety equipments, they can

 constantly tracked and monitored by Government of India and by the

 Department of Fisheries and that would give the fishermen security and

 safety. 77. If a fisherman goes beyond the boundary (IMBL), takes an

 adventurous trip, despite warning, he takes the risk. But within the

 territory, fishermen have a legitimate expectation that their fishing rights

 under Article 19(1)(g) are protected by providing safety and security. According to Indian Fishermen, right to life, which includes liberty and

 safety, have not been provided by the Governments. Threat perception in

 the trouble waters, arrests, deaths, have been taken note of by the

 Government of India. Implementation of Blue Revolution Scheme, would
http://www.judis.nic.in 111 certainly be a preventive remedial measure, in the matter of providing

 security and safety to Indian Fishermen. From the statements of the

 Coast Guard, ISRO, we are of the view that installation of transponders

 and other safety equipments onboard fishing boats, would certainly

 minimise cross bordering. Fundamental rights exercised by Indian

 Fishermen, under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India, are subject

 to the Constitutional limitations. However, the duty of the Governments

 to provide safety and security to the Indian Fishermen, in and around the

 sensitive areas, cannot be ignored. 78. Reading of the Blue Revolution Scheme, in entirety, reflects

 that it is a public safety scheme. Right to life and personal liberty are

 guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Exercise of fundamental

 rights by Indian Fishermen, cannot as a matter of right be claimed and

 asserted, when a lis is pending in the Hon'ble Supreme Court, but on the

 facts and circumstances of this case, Court has to consider, as to

 whether, there is any inaction on the part of the Governments to provide

 safety and security to the Indian Fishermen. Setting up of towers for

 monitoring of the fishing boats, has been taken up by the Government,

 for the safety and security of fishermen. Installation of transponders and

 other safety equipments, has been taken up by the Governments and
http://www.judis.nic.in 112 therefore, it cannot be said that the Governments have wholly failed to

 discharge their duties. 79. From the narration of facts and orders issued, and taking note

 of the Blue Revolution Scheme, we are of the view that the Central

 Government have made it clear, installation of transponders and safety

 equipments onboard fishing boards, is a safety measure, and from the

 various steps taken by the Governments, we cannot hold that there is a

 failure on the part of the Governments, in providing safety and security to

 the Indian Fishermen. But having regard to the ground realities and on

 facts, the need is time bound implementation. 80. Purpose and benefits of installation of transponders and other

 safety equipments onboard fishing boats, would ensure not only safety

 and security of the fishermen, but also transparency. It would certainly

 bring in orderliness and prevent cross bordering, subject the erring

 fishermen to risk on their own. Installation of transponders and safety

 equipments would minimize the threat, perception, likelihood of arrest,

 with the border. 81. Mr.E.Manoharan, learned Additional Government Pleader

 submitted that the Principal Secretary to the Government, Animal
http://www.judis.nic.in 113 Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries Department in his letter dated

 28.03.2019, addressed to the CEO, National Fisheries Development Board,

 Fish Building, Telengana has recommended the proposal as approved by

 the State Level Monitoring and Approval committee, Government of Tamil

 Nadu, to the Central approval and Monitoring Committee for approval and

 financial sanction, at the earliest. 82. At the risk of repetition, we reiterate that Coast Guard,

 Government of India, in their counter affidavit have made it clear that

 providing transponder and communication equipments, are necessary to

 track boats and from the station, Coast Guard can track the boats through

 satellite communication and it would be advisable to have two way

 communications, as well. 83. So far, installation of nearly 503 transponders have been done. Test reports do not indicate serious technical defects. Even minor

 technical defects, are stated to have been rectified and there is no

 complaint either from the fishermen or Government. ISRO has no

 objection or any serious complaint, on the functioning of transponders

 already installed. That being the fact position and in the light of the

 Government policy for monitoring and tracking of fishing vessels, using
http://www.judis.nic.in 114 space technology and IT tools, it is necessary, to procure and install the

 communication devices/transponders and essential equipments etc.,

 onboard the fishing vessels in a phased manner. In the light of the

 decision taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare,

 Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, it is the

 bounden duty of Government of India, to provide financial assistance for

 installation of transponders other safety equipments, as per serial No. 1.5

 of Annexure 1 of Blue Revolution scheme, indisputedly to be implemented

 by the Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries,

 Government of India and thus 503 transponders have already been

 installed. Decision taken by the Department of Animal Husbandry,

 Dairying and Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare,

 Government of India, New Delhi, should be implemented by the said

 department, in letter and spirit. 84. Though, petitioner has sought for a direction to Union of India,

 represented by the Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, Government of

 India, New Delhi, the 1st respondent herein, to refer the matter to the

 human right violations allegedly committed by the Sri Lankan Navy with

 impunity for the past 34 years against the fisherman of India to the

 International Court of Justice for taking action against the Sri Lankan
http://www.judis.nic.in 115 Navy for violation of the 1974 Agreement entered between India and Sri

 Lanka, allegedly exceeding the territorial waters of India and got by Sri

 Lanka, going through the materials, and affidavits filed by Coast Guard,

 ISRO, Government of Tamil, we have already held that the real public

 interest in this writ petition, is security and safety of fishermen, which is

 also felt by the State Government and Government of India and in order

 to effectively implement the orders of this court, after putting on notice

 to the learned Assistant Solicitor General, Government of India, we deem

 it fit to implead Secretary to Government, Ministry of Agriculture and

 Farmers' Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi, as the third

 respondent, in this writ petition. Registry is directed to carry out the

 necessary amendment, in this writ petition, wherever required. 85. Out of 5500 transponders, required to be installed on

 recommendation of the State Government, 503 transponders, have

 already been installed. 86. As per the Blue Revolution Scheme, cost of installation of 5500

 transponders, has to be borne by the department of Agriculture and

 Farmers' Welfare, Government of India, only. Even the Blue Revolution

 Scheme makes it clear that installation of suitable communication
http://www.judis.nic.in 116 devices/transponders and essential equipment, would be done in a

 phased manner and 100% cost of project, would be borne by the

 Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Government of

 India. 87. We therefore, direct the Secretary to the Government, Ministry

 of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi, to

 accord financial sanction and disbursement of funds for the development

 of the necessary software, procurement and installation of transponders

 and essential equipment on the remaining fishing vessels, numbering as

 4997, within two months, from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. 88. On receipt of financial sanction and disbursement, ISRO, shall

 accordingly inform the manufacturers, place orders for manufacturing the

 remaining transponders within one month, thereafter. 89. Manufacturers though not parties before this Court, they may

 be instructed by ISRO and Government of India, to supply the required

 number of transponders, at the earliest possible and install the same, so

 that, safety and security of fishermen are ensured and fishing vessels are

 monitored. Union of India to have a check on the Indian fishermen not to
http://www.judis.nic.in 117 cross the International Maritime Border line of the country and also help

 those fishermen captured by the Sri Lankan Navy. 90. Secretary to the Government, Department of Animal Husbandry,

 Dairying and Fisheries Department, Chennai, the 2nd respondent herein,

 shall send a proposal enumerating numbers for vessels required to be

 installed in various districts. Government of Tamil Nadu, is also directed

 to render necessary assistance in all forms to the Ministry of Agriculture

 and Farmers' Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi, the impleaded

 respondent, to accord financial sanction and disbursement, as ordered by

 this Court. 91. Accordingly, writ petition is disposed of. No Costs. Post on 02.07.2019, for reporting compliance. [S.M.K., J.] [S.P., J.]
 22.04.2019
 Index: Yes
 Internet: Yes
 kpr

 To 1. The Secretary
http://www.judis.nic.in Union of India, 118 Ministry of External Affairs
 Government of India,
 New Delhi-110 001

http://www.judis.nic.in