ICD, TKD, New Delhi

 WITH

 Customs Appeal No. 51031 of 2019 [DB]

[Arising out of Order-in-Original No.25/2017 dated 23.11.2017 passed by the
Commissioner of Customs (Export) ICD TKD, New Delhi]

Shri Nawal Kishore Singh ...Appellant
H-346, Saurabh Vihar,
Jaitpur Extn. Badarpur
New Delhi

 VERSUS

Commissioner of Customs (Exports) ...Respondent
Inland Container Depot,
Tuglakabad, New Delhi

APPEARANCE: However, he had applied for his IEC Code with the help of a

person, namely, Deepak Kumar Rishi. The documents provided

to him were stated to might have been used in the alleged act of

importing misdeclared goods. C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB] 3. After extensive investigation of examining all concerned,

the Department formed an opinion that Shri Deepak Kumar

Rishi, (the main conspirator ) Shri Sanjay Arora Prorietor of M/s.

Pico Trading Co. Shri Sanjeev Kumar Singh, Shri Hemant

Sachdeva of M/s.Madhyam Logistics, Shri Sadanand Chowdhary

(CHA), Shri Sagar Guleria, Shri Pankaj Guleria, Shri Nawal

Kishore Singh & Shri Bhupinder Singh Chadda (CHA) were

apparently involved in manipulating the papers leading to mis-

declaration and under valuation of the impugned goods which

involved the evasion of customs duty. Accordingly, a Show

Cause Notice bearing No.13147 of 24.04.2012 was served upon

all the above named persons including the Container Corporation

of India (CONCOR) proposing the confiscation of the seized

goods of the aforementioned value alongwith the recovery of

Customs Duty amounting to Rs.1,00,36,067/- from CONCOR.

Penalties under Section 112 (a) & 114A upon M/s. Pico and Shri

Sanjay Arora and Shri Nawal Kishore Singh and under various

Sections on rest of the co-noticees were proposed to be

imposed. The said proposal has been confirmed vide the order

under challenge. Being aggrieved, the appellant is before this

Tribunal. 4. The role of Shri Sanjay Arora was alleged in the SCN as

follows:- Thus, from the above, it is clear that Shri Arora was very well
 in touch with Shri Deepak Rishi and these calls appear to have
 been made / received in connection with the import of said
 mis-declared consignment. It is also apparent that the Bill of
 Entry 5028721 was filed on 27.10.2011 and just before the
 filing of the said Bill of Entry they were in contact with each
 other, which is contradiction to his submission made by him in
 his statement dated 03.11.2011, vide which he had stated
 that he had received only a message from Shri Deepak Rishi
 wherein Shri Deepak Rishi had informed his new mobile No. as
 8802536779 and after that he had no contact with him. It also
 appears that Shri Sanjay Arora in association with Shri Deepak
 Rishi and in co-ordination with other persons willfully and 5 C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB]

 intentionally involved in smuggling activities and attempted to
 import huge quantity of mis-declared/ undeclared / concealed
 goods with an intention to evade payment of proper and
 correct duty on the goods detailed in Annexure-I to this Show
 Cause Notice. 30. Whereas from the perusal of the phone details of Shri
 Sanjay Arora, it also appears that he was very much aware of
 the said consignment covered under B/E 5028721 dated
 27.10.2011 and he alongwith Shri Deepak Rishi devised this
 modus operandi of getting these mis-declared items cleared
 from Customs so that in case the same is caught by Customs
 he would dis-own the consignment to mis-lead the
 investigation, as he has done in this case. Further, it appears
 that to carry out this illegal trade Shri Deepak Rishi played the
 key role by roping in other persons in the chain, even the
 charges of shipping line were got paid from the account of
 M/s.Madhyam Logistics and the partners of the said company
 also helped him in this. Thus, the contention of the Shri
 Sanjay Arora that the IEC of M/s. PICO Trading has been mis-
 utilised appears to be wrong." 5. The role played by Shri Sanjay Arora found in the

impugned order is as follows:- C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB]

 However Noticee 3 has in connivance with other Noticees,
 has misused the such details for causing fraudulent
 imports. This fact is further corroborated by the fact that
 Noticee 1/ Noticee 2 is in business of battery chargers and
 the goods in the container are declared as glassware and
 on examination found to be branded glassware, branded
 whisky, branded cigarettes and miscellaneous goods. The
 goods found in the container are other than the goods in
 which Noticee 1/ Noticee 2 deals. The facts as narrated
 clearly point that Noticee 1/ Noticee 2 is victim of identity
 theft whereby his identity has been used to cause the
 fraudulent imports. Identity theft and identity fraud are
 terms used to refer to all types of crime in which someone
 wrongfully obtains and uses another person's personal
 data in some way that involves fraud or deception,
 typically for economic gain. Because of the growing
 number of cases of criminal identity theft, it's important
 for individuals to be aware that their identities could be
 used to commit crimes beyond fraudulent financial
 transactions. Noticee 3 has in his statement stated that
 documents in relation to filing of B/E No. 5028721 had
 been provided to him by Noticee 10, whereas Noticee has
 categorically denied of having any acquaintance with
 either Noticee 1 or Noticee 2. It is also an admitted fact
 that Noticee 2 has lended the details of his company to
 Noticee 3 for purpose of seeking his assistance in getting
 IEC. Noticee 2 has admitted that he was in touch with
 Noticee 3 at about the time when the Bill of Entry to cover
 up the fraudulent imports was filed. This fact is also
 corroborated by the call records. Even if it is agreed that
 Noticee 1/ Noticee 2 had not imported the said goods
 themselves and also they were no way concerned with the
 importation of the said goods, the fact that goods have
 been imported under their identity and IEC cannot be
 denied. In my view by lending his identity to Noticee 3,
 along with the documents pertaining to his company,
 Noticee 2 has become party to the fraud being committed
 by the Noticee 3 and is liable to penalty under Section 112 (a) of the Customs Act, 1962 . However in view of the case
 laws as stated above I would not propose separate
 penalties on the proprietor and proprietorship concern." 6. The role of Shri Nawal Kishore Singh was alleged in the

SCN as follows:- 7. The role of Shri Nawal Kishore Singh found in the

impugned order is as follows:- 8. We have heard Shri V. V. Gautam & Ms. Ekta Kapoor, ld.

Counsels for the appellant and Shri Sunil Kumar, ld. D.R. for the

Revenue. 9. It is submitted on behalf of the appellant that from the

statements of all concerned as were recorded at the time of

investigation, it is clearly evident that the documents of firm

M/s. Pico Trading Co. have been manipulated for the impugned

illegal imports by the co-noticees. There was no knowledge nor

any consent of the Proprietor of said firm, namely, Sanjay

Arora/the appellant for the same who otherwise has never been

the importer except that he applied for the IEC Code. He

otherwise deals in the trade of batteries. It is further submitted

that the appellant is rather the victim of identity theft. The

Original Adjudicating Authority despite appreciating Sanjay Arora

as the victim of identity theft still has imposed penalty of

Rs.10,00,000/- under section 112 (a) and (q) of the Customs

Act, 1962 . It is also submitted that appellant had rather lodged

an FIR for his Company alleging that documents pertaining to its 12 C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB]

firm have illegally been used in the impugned import. The FIR

for commission of offence of forgery, cheating and fraud was got

registered by appellant Sanjay Arora for himself and his

Proprietorship M/s. Pico Trading Company. The order of

imposition of penalty upon him is accordingly prayed to be set

aside. 10. On behalf of Mr. Nawal Kishore Singh, the another

appellant it is submitted that Shri Deepak Rishi was never known

to him except that he was in touch with his employer Shri

Bhupinder Singh and accordingly had collected certain

documents for said Shri Deepak Rishi during the impugned

period. Except this there is no evidence on record proving his

involvement in the alleged illegal import. Order of imposition of

penalty against him is accordingly prayed to be set aside and

appeal is prayed to be allowed. 11. To rebut these submissions ld. DR has impressed upon the

meticulous investigation as has been conducted in the present

case. The meticulous effort of the original adjudicating authority

to appreciate the entire oral as well as the documentary

evidence on record due opportunity of cross examination as also

was provided to the concerned noticees. Nothing cogent in their

favour came out of the said cross examination. There is

otherwise sufficient corroboration in the testimonies of all the

noticees proving the alleged import of misdeclared and

undervalued goods by the firm, namely, M/s. Pico Trading Co. 13 C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB]

which the Sanjay Arora as its Proprietor and involvement of all

others for importing goods illegally. The act of all the co-

noticees is nothing less than that of smuggling, that too, of all

luxurious branded goods misdeclaring all of them as unbranded

glassware. The order is therefore prayed to be upheld and

appeal is prayed to be dismissed. 12. After hearing the rival contentions and perusing the entire

record specifically the call details with respect to the mobile

number in the name of Shri Deepak Kumar Rishi, in the form of

statements of all the co-noticees to the Show Cause Notice. The

other documents on record and the order under challenge, we

observe and hold as follows:- 13. It is an admitted fact that the import export code (IEC)

was applied for by M/s. Pico Trading Co. in December, 2010 with

the help of Shri Deepak Rishi. All relevant documents were

provided by Shri Sanjay Arora the proprietor of M/s. Pico Trading

Co. to said Shri Deepak. Admittedly, the said IEC Code was

received in the month of January, 2011. The consignment in

question entered into Indian Territory in the month of October,

2011. Though as per Shri Sanjay Arora, he had no relationship

with Shri Deepak Rishi and he was introduced to him through

Mr.Sandeep Suri, but the call detail record of said Deepak

Rishi, is sufficient proof that Sanjay Arora was in regular

communication with Mr. Deepak, that too, during the relevant

period for the impugned imports. No explanation is produced by 14 C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB]

Sanjay Arora about several calls being made between him and

Mr. Deepak in the month of October, 2011 that too for the

durations as long as of 599 seconds. The only evidence relied

upon is the FIR lodged by Shri Sanjay Arora but the said FIR is

after the import and after Shri Sanjay Arora had joined the

investigation. The possibility of said FIR as an after-thought to

manipulate defence cannot be ruled out. 14. Further, no outcome of the investigation in the said FIR

have been brought on record, though original adjudicating

authority has held Shri Sanjay Arora to be the victim of identity

theft whereby his identity has been used to cause the fraudulent

imports. But his association with Shri Deepak Rishi is very much

established on record. From the testimony of all the noticees

herein the transaction which appears in corroboration is that Shri

Deepak Rishi was the mastermind for the impugned imports and

every other noticee has acted at his instance. Though many of

them have pleaded no knowledge nor their consent but there is

no positive evidence to corroborate the said defence. On the

contrary the acknowledged participation of everybody involved

herein is sufficient to prove their intent with all their knowledge

and consent to participate in the impugned illegal imports.

Hence, we are of the opinion that Sanjay Arora has not been the

victim of identity theft. He rather allowed his papers to be used

by Shri Deepak Rishi. Hence, he cannot walk out of being called

as abater/ conspirator. Penalty upon him under section 112 of

Customs Act, 1962 has therefore rightly been imposed. We are 15 C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB]

in agreement with the original adjudicating authority that after

imposition of penalty on proprietor the simultaneous penalty on

his firm for the same offence has been correctly dropped. The

order under challenge to that extent stands upheld.

For appellant Nawal Kishore Singh 15. Admittedly, Nawal Kishore Singh has been the employee of

Shri Bhupinder Singh. There is sufficient admission and

acknowledgement on record to the fact that Shri Bhupinder

Singh was himself having a CHA License but the license was

suspended on account of enquiries being made against him.

However, he was still involved in the business of customs

clearance on the basis of CHA License of his nephew Shri

Rupinder Singh. It has also been deposed in corroboration that

Shri Bhupinder Singh had a very close acquaintance with Shri

Deepak Kumar Rishi since long and he has constantly being filing

documents with Customs for Shri Deepak Kumar Rishi.

Appellant Shri Nawal Kishore Singh was the employee of Shri

Bhupinder Kumar who used to transact the document between

Bhupinder Singh and Deepak Kumar Rishi. From the statement

of Deepak Rishi himself, it is apparent that he alongwith

Bhupinder Singh and Nawal Kishore Singh used to get goods

cleared in the similar manner as of the present case and earlier

also the trio had committed the similar act in the name of M/s.

B.K.Traders. 16. The modus operandi for operating such imports has also

been disclosed by said Deepak Rishi in his statement as was 16 C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB]

recorded on 30.11.2011. He has specifically named Nawal

Kishore Singh to rather be the mastermind of the impugned

import and that Mr. Nawal Kishore Singh had clear knowledge

about the consignment to contain branded luxury items instead

of unbranded glassware. Shri Nawal Kishore Singh has not

brought anything on record to falsify said testimony. His

association with Deepak Rishi rather stands corroborated from

the testimony of Bhupinder Singh even the call records of Shri

Deepak Rishi proved association of Nawal Kishore Singh with

Deepak Rishi. We do not find any infirmity in the findings

against Nawal Kishore as arrived at by original adjudicating

authority. We are of the opinion that there is sufficient evidence

as well as facts on record to prove that the entire conspiracy to

undertake fraudulent imports against IEC of M/s. Pico Trading

Company has been hatched between Deepak Kumar Rishi, Shri

Bhupinder Singh and Shri Nawal Kumar Singh and rest of the co-

noticees had due knowledge of the entire transaction as similar

used to be the modus operandi of Shri Deepak Rishi at the

earlier occasions also. As already held above even Sanjay Arora

is not the victim of identity theft. He sent his documents for the

impugned imports and was constantly in touch with Shri Deepak

Rishi during the period of import. Hence the findings against the

second appellant, namely, Shri Nawal Kishore Singh are also

hereby upheld. We refrain ourselves from any findings as far as

CONCOR is concerned, a separate appeal of them being pending

consideration. C/50051 & 51031 / 2019 [DB] 17. As a result of entire above discussion, we hereby uphold

the order under challenge except for the separate penalty on

M/s. Pico Trading Co. Consequent thereto, both the appeals

stand dismissed. [Pronounced in the open court on 22.03.2022]

 (P.V. SUBBA RAO)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)

 (RACHNA GUPTA)
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)

Anita