Lawyer and tech policy advisor Dhruv Garg, who is a Partner at Indian Governance and Policy Project (IGAP), claimed that offshore betting platforms are a $20 billion industry and potentially dwarf the Indian Real Money Gaming (RMG) sector when compared.

“Conservatively speaking, it’s a $20 billion industry. That’s $20 billion that is going out of the country illegally. At this amount just the tax evasion is more than $4 billion, which is bigger than the total revenue of the Indian [RMG] companies,” he claimed.

For context, Garg was speaking at ‘Navigating India’s Online Gaming Law’: a MediaNama panel discussion on the Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Act, 2025.

He cited a 2022 interview with the CEO of Parimatch, a betting platform that is illegal in India, where the executive stated that a few of their companies were bringing in over $12 billion in revenue. “Even if you stay at 25-30% growth till now, in three years you will reach $18-20 billion,” Garg argued.

However, Vishal Gondal, CEO of game developer GOQii, disagreed with this characterisation, arguing that the RMG sector had raised over $2.5 billion from venture capitalists, both Indian and foreign.

“Their combined market valuation – let’s forget revenue – the market cap of all these companies is about $20 billion. One company itself talked about having $10 billion of market value,” he said. “These companies have generated wealth for themselves and their investors worth over $25 billion,” Gondal added.

He also dismissed comparisons between offshore and Indian platforms, arguing that the former were criminal enterprises and thus weren’t relevant to India’s Online Gaming Act.

The Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Act, 2025, was passed last month, prohibiting offering or facilitating digital money gaming services, banning related advertisements, and preventing banks and payment processors from handling such transactions.

The Act mandates imprisonment up to three years or a fine of up to Rs. 1 crore, or both for facilitating or providing online money gaming. Advertising can face up to two years in prison or fines up to Rs 50 lakh (or both). Meanwhile, financial facilitation can lead to three years in jail or a fine up to Rs 1 crore (or both).

The passing of the Act led to an almost immediate discontinuation for a number of RMG operations. Fantasy gaming platform Dream11 stopped offering Pay-to-Play matches and is reportedly pivoting to a personal finance app. Fellow gaming operator Winzo announced a foray into the US market alongside an entry into short-form video content. Elsewhere, some players, like the opinion trading app Probo, had to completely shut down.

And even though many RMG platforms chose to pivot, some have opted to challenge the law in courts. Three companies have filed cases against the legislation, namely Bagheera Carrom , Clubboom 11 Sports and Head Digital Works . And more recently, the Supreme Court transferred all pending petitions relating to the Online Gaming Act to itself.

Amol Kulkarni, Research Director at CUTS International, argued that banning online real money games entirely could provide a fillip to illegal offshore platforms.

“This is not the only example of prohibition we have. We have seen several examples of things being banned or prohibited, online and offline, and those activities shift to unregulated gray markets and consumers still continue to face the same issues and lose their money,” he said.

However, Kulkarni acknowledged that online RMG entities came with a number of concerns like addiction, financial losses, mental health issues and indebtedness. He added that RMG platforms operated get-rich-quick schemes, and that the industry should have done more to protect customers.

“But do we really think that prohibition is the solution? Because the problem is that once you prohibit, you just shift the burden entirely on consumers. The government is free to say that they did what they had to do and therefore now it is on the consumer.

“The consumer is now solely responsible for any wins, losses or grievances that they may encounter when they are interacting with any gaming platform,” he said.

Kulkarni likened this to the options and derivatives market, where a lot of people ended up losing their money as well.

Nikhil Pahwa, Editor of MediaNama, however disagreed with Kulkarni’s claims, suggesting that RMG platforms were generally supposed to be a mechanism for entertainment. Likening them to the stock market implied that they were a way for users to make money.

Secondly, he also pointed out that while stock markets could be manipulated by large players, RMG had a market that itself manipulated players.

However, Kulkarni disagreed that RMG platforms should be seen as a source of income for users.

“My argument was twofold – one, there is significant demand for this [RMG platforms]. So, even if you ban them, there would be deceptive entities and other suspicious and fraudulent players which will come in the market and continue to supply these games.

“There have also been a lot of concerns about people using them as get-rich-quick schemes or becoming addicted. All of these concerns are there in digital lending as well as investment in options and futures. The point is that we do not address these concerns by banning such investment options. The solution for that is regulating,” he said.

On the other hand, Gondal pointed out that stock market trading had Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements, while that wasn’t necessarily true for online gaming.

“When it comes to options and futures trading or the stock market, you need a KYC bank account and a KYC demat account. You need to show where the money is coming from. So there are very strict guidelines on who can open these accounts and who can operate these accounts. However, what was happening in real money gaming was that there was no KYC on entry. They were advertising Rs. 5,000 bonuses for account creation. So they were luring you to create an account by giving you money to play first and only when you win,” he said.

He acknowledged that while some platforms carried out KYC norms at the time of withdrawal, the larger problem was that they were luring in players, many of whom could be minors, and allowing them to play without any safeguards.

Elsewhere, Kulkarni pointed out the problem of mule accounts: which helped move illegal proceedings, including RMG transactions, out of India.

“There have been lot of online mules which have been used to defraud people. For instance, X Helper is an app which helps suspicious and fraudulent entities create proxy accounts to bypass RBI regulations and take funds from genuine gamers who want to play,” he said. Kulkarni added that consumers may not make a distinction between global platforms and those regulated by the Indian government.

However, Pahwa pointed out that Indian regulatory agencies have already cracked down on mule accounts. “The RBI is already acting on them, and the fact is that the RBI, even before this law became active, has shut down UPI payments to real money gaming platforms,” he said.

“Enforcement is never going to be perfect but the law enables enforcement now. So if X Helper is bypassing the regulation, eventually that mechanism will be shut down. Then they (X Helper) will find another way, then that will be shut down. But now this is legislative backing to say you can’t put money into these things,” Pahwa added.

CUTS International had previously released a report on online gambling and the role UPI mules played in the ecosystem. These operations centre around malicious mobile applications like XHelper, which present themselves as legitimate money transfer businesses but actually function as management systems for orchestrating large-scale money laundering.

Illegal gambling platforms encourage users to pay their deposits to recruited mule account users via UPI. These mules receive immediate instructions to forward these funds to corporate accounts controlled by the app operators, who then convert the money to cryptocurrency, typically USDT, through exchange platforms. After deducting their commission from the converted funds, the operators pay a portion back to the mule as an incentive.

X Helper also includes training systems that teach mules how to receive and transfer funds, handle frozen accounts, create fake business documents, and respond to bank officials when questioned.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event