This was a special newsletter that went out to MediaNama subscribers.

Welcome to this month’s edition of our Talking Points newsletter, where we present you with a thought-provoking selection of topics to ignite tech policy discussions and debates.

In early April, the MeitY said that Aadhaar numbers are not deactivated even after death because there is no communication mechanism between the UIDAI and the Birth and Death Registries at the ground-level. What’s curiouser is that the UIDAI has already suggested that the number may be captured when issuing the death certificate of the deceased. Yet for some reason this idea is still under consideration while the problem persists. Aside from severe criticism about government operations, this situation also begs the question as to why Aadhaar is raised to the pedestal of a verification document rather than a card to ensure efficient delivery of subsidiary schemes. The Supreme Court has already said that the document is a poor substitute for an identity proof, residential proof, etc. Yet the document is asked even when checking into a hotel. Shouldn’t news like this call for restrictions on Aadhaar rather than its widespread use?

India’s education ministry has proposed a new unified registry system to digitise education data by creating a student registry with student IDs linked to Aadhaar. Given that submission of Aadhaar is mandatory for participating in the process, how will the registry system accommodate students who do not have required documents like Aadhaar to submit? The new system is said to tackle challenges that make enrolment to institutions a cumbersome process for students, but fails to address the fundamental problem of lack of Aadhaar, which is currently disrupting the admission process in many schools. While the government aims to bring in the registry system by August 2023, many students are already missing out on opportunities to join formal education due to errors in or non-availability of Aadhaar number. When the government is not subsidising or providing any kind of benefits for education in all schools, why is Aadhaar even mandatory for mere enrolment to educational institutions?

The Internet is challenging the distribution of power between the Centre and states. Tamil Nadu’s ban on online gambling enacted a few weeks ago is a prime example. While Tamil Nadu has constitutional powers to regulate gambling or games of chance, the kinds of games it bans—like rummy and poker—are held by courts to be games of skill, which states seemingly can’t regulate. Remember: the Madras High Court struck down 2021’s predecessor to this ban citing similar concerns. The 2023 ban doesn’t substantially improve on these weaknesses, leaving us with a law that may overreach its regulatory ambit and be struck down in court. So, why would a government choose to draft a law with holes? Perhaps the law was simply hastily drafted in the rush to protect people from the evident harms of online gaming. But, some skill-based industry gaming associations noted that the state government wasn’t particularly keen on listening to alternative approaches during the drafting period—indicating that even if the law was rushed, its design may have been intentional. Supporting this theory: the state’s Supreme Court challenge against the Madras High Court’s 2021 verdict that the ban was unconstitutional. So, Tamil Nadu’s perplexing defiance could be read as a state’s fight to retain control over its digital backyard. The Indian government is centralising Internet governance across various laws, including on online gaming. States like Tamil Nadu may instead prefer roughing it out in court to regulate the Internet on their own terms. Or, as an expert I spoke to put it, “eventually, what may happen is that all BJP-ruled states will not bring their own gambling laws…[but] All the opposition-ruled states may try muddying the waters regarding the [jurisdiction of] online gaming rules.”

India’s IT Minister has gone to great lengths to defend and down-play the recently notified fact-check amendment. He has talked about all its benefits in an article , discussed how it does no harm to free speech in a Twitter Spaces conversation , and rebutted and called names at those who criticized the amendment on Twitter. The Minister’s argument: there’s no censorship or harm to free speech because the amendment does not require platforms to remove content flagged as false or fake, they can continue to host it, just that they are legally liable for lawsuit if they do. But isn’t it obvious that the very threat of liability suppresses free speech? Which platform would love to expose themselves to lawsuits by continuing to host flagged content? The Minister’s defense is akin to saying: “Go ahead and refuse the fact-check, nothing will stop you, but you will be held liable for it.”

The decision to stream the Indian Premier League matches for free has not gone down well with Jio’s staunch rival— Airtel. The latter ended up writing a letter to India’s telecom regulator for “specific regulatory interventions” to avoid the risk of market failure for platform operators in its submission. It also urged the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) to intervene because it alleged that Jio was creating an “anti-competitive environment” and a “non-level playing field” for operators. Jio’s response was swift and unequivocal but the clash does indicate the historical rivals may be heading towards a showdown. The two have been loggerheads many times in the past but there had been a thaw of late. It seems like this is not the last we may have seen from the two as Airtel argues that telecom operators should be subject to the same rules as broadcast services if they choose to broadcast the same channels through their apps but Jio claims to be acting merely as an aggregator.

The Kerala High Court gave a clarification on its earlier suggestion to Google to use Artificial Intelligence to identify certain content that may come under the ambit of the Right to be Forgotten. It said that the idea was “just a suggestion.” Still, the fact that even courts are making such comments highlights how the general public remains unaware about the efficacy of AI. Most people do not realise that AI and other automated systems depend on learning algorithms, data-sets to carry out their work. For this reason, as the AI varies, the results also vary depending on the underlying datasets, algorithms. As such, its output is not predictable. And yet, we see that such technologies are used for e-governance , police work , unlocking your phones, etc. It begs the question whether people aren’t putting too much of their trust in a technology they know very little about – courts included.

Stability AI, in a copyright case in the United States, has argued that the artists or complainants have failed to prove that the output image generated by the company’s AI tool ‘Stable Diffusion’ is substantially similar to their original works. The data used for training generative AI systems is emerging as a critical point of contention between AI developers and creators. In a copyright lawsuit, how will artists prove the malafide intent of an AI tool and that their original work–irrespective of whether it is registered under copyright or not–is used by the system to generate an output? Some AI enthusiasts also claim that there’s no law against using existing data for machine learning purposes. To what extent can existing works be used for machine learning purposes without copyright infringement? Will disclosure of copyrighted works used for training AI systems by companies, as proposed by the European Union , work in favour of the original creators?

When India’s platform regulation rules were amended last year, people were confused if companies were supposed to proactively take down content banned by the government, or if they were supposed to wait for a heads-up from someone before taking down dodgy posts. A year later, the jury’s still out on which approach is the desired one—even though the IT Ministry initially clarified that companies only have to remove content once notified, India’s courts are adding a considerable splash of confusion into the mix. For example, a few weeks ago, Justice C. Hari Shankar of the Delhi High Court seemed to agree with the idea that platforms should “proactively” take down contentious content on children under the IT Rules and not be “tacit” onlookers of information. Yet, only a few weeks earlier, he’d ruled that e-commerce companies don’t necessarily have to “take action” against copyright infringing content (also banned under the IT Rules), and that simply notifying users to not host the infringing content was sufficient action. Maybe copyright infringement isn’t as important as protecting children online, which is why the difference arises. But, is it wise to have so many interpretations of a platform’s responsibilities under the rules?

Google is currently in the bad books of (probably) every Indian startup with a Play Store presence. The tech giant wants to extract a 11 to 30 percent commission from these startups for all the in-app purchases made by Android users and these startups are going to great lengths to prevent that. At the moment, a group of startups represented by ADIF are contesting Google’s new billing policy with the Competition Commission of India. But while most startups are arguing that the policy is not in compliance with the antitrust orders issued by CCI, Matrimony.com took an altogether different route and filed a petition at Madras High Court arguing that Google is not in compliance with RBI’s various guidelines for payment systems and aggregators. The matchmaking company has made some interesting arguments on how Google is charging for UPI transactions when laws don’t allow it to, how it’s taking its own sweet time to pay developers their share when it’s required to do so in 2-3 days, and how it’s mingling settlement of funds with other businesses in violation of payment aggregator guidelines. And guess what? The road not taken has turned out to be a road to victory for Matrimony.com as it has won a temporary injunction preventing Google from unlisting its apps from Play Store.

It seems like the Union government’s appetite for censorship is insatiable as amendments to the Cinematograph Act, 1952, obtained cabinet approval. The plan is to introduce these amendments in the upcoming monsoon session of the Indian Parliament. The amendments make it difficult to pirate films as the bill will allow the government to block websites that allow for pirated content to be transmitted from its platforms. However, there is no clarity on what kind of checks and balances have been put in place to keep the state’s blocking powers in check. Moreover, the amendments attracted controversy when they were first introduced in 2021, because they allowed the government to review films that were already cleared by the Central Board for Film Certification (CBFC). It means that the government will have the power to censor CBFC’s decisions, even though the body is supposed to be autonomous in letter and in spirit. The provisions are not surprising given that the government has made numerous attempts to horde power to censor content through various legislative measures.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event