Nikhil’s take : Nepal’s blocking of Telegram is an interesting situation. Typically when blocks happen in India, companies are forced to act: it’s market with a large userbase and a large potential for revenue, and with the exception of TikTok and Chinese apps in 2020-21, most companies have chosen to participate in a legal process. What happens in case of a country that doesn’t have the userbase or revenue heft? What if a platform ignores demands from governments in such countries? While I’m not saying that happened here, there is such a thing as leverage. The last throw of the dice for countries is to block.

Secondly, blocking of an entire service is a brute force/ blunt response. Ideally, specific instances, or in case of repeat violations, accounts should be targeted, because blocking the service might stop illegal activity on the platform, but it also censors legal speech, and future speech, as well as legal activity and future activity. Thirdly, blocking of the service also means that law enforcement agencies cannot monitor activity on the platform itself. This activity will now be forced to switch to platforms that law enforcement is not aware of and hence cannot monitor. What’s the solution here? Probably what Nepal is expecting: for Telegram to get back to them and work out a solution that works for law enforcement in Nepal.

What’s the news? Nepal ordered all its telecommunication service providers to block Telegram on July 18, according to an Asian News International (ANI) report .

The Himalayan country’s telecom regulatory authority issued a notice to this effect, citing online fraud and money laundering as the underlying concerns.

“As the number of online frauds through the Telegram App operating in Nepal is continuously increasing, and it has been understood that there is involvement in serious crimes such as money laundering, all relevant telecommunication service providers have been directed through this notice to immediately block/close access to the Telegram App,” the Nepal Telecommunication Authority’s (NTA) notice said.

For context, the country’s National Coordination Committee on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which functions under the Nepalese Prime Minister and Council of Ministers, had started the process to block Telegram on Friday, July 18.

Last year, hackers siphoned off more than 3.4 crore Nepalese Rupees (NPR) from the country’s popular online transaction software, F1 Soft, widely used by banks.

During the subsequent investigation, police unearthed how hackers were using the Telegram platform to communicate.

The present directive to ban Telegram comes in the wake of the F1 Soft investigation and reflects growing concerns about cybersecurity and safety regarding the messaging app globally.

Earlier in August last year, French authorities arrested Telegram’s Russia-born CEO, Pavel Durov, for alleged involvement in money laundering, drug trafficking, and other illegal activities, prompting India to launch a probe against the messaging app for gambling and extortion.

Back then, French President Emmanuel Macron posted on X (formerly Twitter), saying that Durov’s arrest was part of a “judicial investigation” and was in no way a political move.

I have seen false information regarding France following the arrest of Pavel Durov. France is deeply committed to freedom of expression and communication, to innovation, and to the spirit of entrepreneurship. It will remain so. In a state governed by the rule of law,…

At that time, Russia and the UAE were the only nations opposing Durov’s arrest in France , with the UAE emphasising that the welfare and interests of its citizens, like the Russian-origin Telegram CEO, are a key priority.

Elsewhere, Vietnam issued an order to block Telegram in May this year. The country’s Ministry of Science and Technology said that Telegram channels contained “poisonous and bad information” and had even distributed “antistate documents.”

Therefore, it is amply clear that the Nepal blocking is not an isolated example of Telegram facilitating illicit and illegal activities for its users.

However, the messaging application met the news of Nepalese authorities blocking it with a pinch of amazement, stating that it has replied to Nepal’s legal requests in a consistent manner.

The Durov-led platform said, “We have consistently responded to Nepal’s legal requests. Telegram actively moderates harmful content on its platform and removes fraud and money laundering whenever discovered.”

The Nepalese government has stepped up its efforts recently to regulate the social media space in the country, including blocking TikTok in the Himalayan nation in November 2023. The government highlighted its concern that TikTok’s content was detrimental to social harmony.

However, Nepal lifted this ban in August 2024, subject to certain agreed conditions. “Now onwards, TikTok has to help promote Nepal’s tourism, invest in digital literacy efforts, support to uplift Nepal’s public education system, and be mindful of the language used on its platform,” Nepal’s Communication and Information Technology Minister, Prithvi Subba Gurung, had said.

Somewhat similarly, Telegram can also get relief if it agrees to certain terms and conditions for its operations in Nepal. The messaging app has stated that it has begun a dialogue with the Nepalese government to find a solution.

And if the TikTok saga in Nepal is anything to go by, Telegram may be back in the Himalayan country before long.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event