Messaging platform Telegram has released a new moderation page , which contains details of the groups and channels they suspended for violating their terms of service. According to the page, Telegram suspended over 15.5 million groups and channels in 2024. “Telegram blocks tens of thousands of groups and channels daily and removes millions of pieces of content that violate its Terms of Service, including incitement to violence, sharing child abuse materials, and trading illegal goods,” said the platform. The messaging service also stated that “cutting-edge AI moderation tools” had helped them enhance moderation efforts.

The platform claimed to have blocked over 700,000 CSAM related groups and channel in the year. Telegram operates a system where it automatically checks images against a hash database of CSAM images the service had already banned in the past. They’ve now expanded this database with hashes from organizations like the Internet Watch Foundation. Hashing is a technique where CSAM content is assigned digital fingerprints and stored in a database which can then be used to compare and detect similar content uploaded on the platform. In addition, Telegram receives thousands of manual user reports from on CSAM from NGOs, leading it to ban over 30,000 pieces of content from the platform between July and November this year. The platform’s daily reports stated that it blocked 1908 groups and channels related to child abuse banned on December 15, totalling 34,083 for the month.

Terrorism related content also saw a major crackdown in the latter half of this year, with over 130,000 terrorism related channels and groups blocked in 2024. Telegram banned 4,714 communities in a single day on October 15. Similar to its CSAM detection mechanism, Telegram collaborates with NGOs like ETIDAL, who have helped it remove over 100 million pieces of content. According to the platform’s daily reports , it blocked 1,001 terrorism bots and channels on December 15, bringing the total for December up to 9617.

Telegram’s founder and CEO Pavel Durov was arrested by French authorities in August this year, over an alleged lack of moderation that led to the proliferation of Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) and hate speech. He also reportedly resisted cooperation with authorities. Besides France, Telegram is also reportedly under investigation by Indian authorities for extortion and gambling . The platform is also under investigation in South Korea over the spread of deepfake porn on the platform.

This was only the latest in a long string of government action against the company. Durov’s own home country Russia had banned the app after the company refused to cooperate with the government over user privacy. However, the ban proved to be ultimately unsuccessful as Telegram continued to thrive in Russia. The country eventually rescinded the ban, after Durov reportedly agreed to cooperate with Russian security services over terrorism and extremism present on the platform.

Durov’s arrest in France also triggered a subsequent willingness to cooperate with authorities. He stated in September that the company will improve its content moderation efforts and added a line to the FAQ page informing users about a ‘report’ button they could use to flag illegal content to moderators. The company also agreed to provide a user’s phone number and IP address to judicial authorities if it receives an order confirming that the user is a suspect in a criminal case.

Telegram also partnered with the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) to prevent the propagation of CSAM on its platform. The partnership granted Telegram access to IWF’s datasets and tools, including the aforementioned hash database, and would also help in the blocking of AI generated CSAM.

In fact, the statistics Telegram provided on its moderation page present a clear but gradual increase in the banning of communities in the latter half of 2024, following Durov’s arrest.

The difference seems to be especially evident in the number of terrorism related communities being banned.

However, Telegram did not provide any details on the number of user accounts it suspended over the year, if any, and whether it reported incidents of CSAM or terrorism to authorities.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event