The present Regular First Appeal is filed by the

defendants against the impugned judgment and decree dated

4.6.2016 made in O.S.No.274/2015 on the file of the Principal

Senior Civil Judge, Kolar decreeing the suit of the plaintiff for 3 recovery of money of Rs.25,98,690/- with current and future

interest at the rate of 12% p.a. from the date of suit till

realization. 2. For the sake of convenience, the parties are

referred to as per their ranking in the original suit before the

Trial Court. 3. Plaintiff filed the suit against the defendants

before the trial court for recovery of money contending that it

is a registered firm in the name and style of M/s.D L Electricals

approved by the Government of Karnataka and also is a Class-

I Electrical License Contractors. It is the case of the plaintiff

that, the defendants have issued a work award dated

5.2.2007 to carry out works viz., supplying and providing

intermediate poles and realignment of poles in Kolar Urban

Sub-division. As per the estimate total amount awarded for

completion of work was Rs.25,98,690/-and he has carried out

the entrusted work as per the specification given by the

defendants company. 4. The said work was carried out under the

supervision of concerned A.E/A.E.E. of O & M of Kolar Rural

Sub-Division and U.S.D. Kolar. After completion of the said

work undertaken by him he has submitted the bills and the

defendants were satisfied with work done by him and they

have approved all his bills and there is reference given by him

that even the concerned officials and Executive Engineer have

visited the work personally during the progress of work and

approved the bills by using schedule rates. Inspite of several

reminders and requests made by the plaintiff, the defendants

have not released the amount. Therefore, the plaintiff filed

the suit as prayed for. 5. Defendants in response to the suit summons filed

written statement denying the plaint averments contending

that, the BESCOM is a company Registered under the Companies Act owned by the State of Karnataka and aimed to

provide electrical service to the General Public and the

defendants have entrusted electrical work to some of the

contractors for the period 2006-2007 and 2007-2008 and the 5 plaintiff is also one of the Contractors and he was given work

award and he was entrusted with the work order to carry out

providing intermediate poles and realignment of poles in Kolar

Urban Sub-division and estimated cost of the said contract

work was Rs.25,98,690/-. It also not in dispute that the work

award dated 5.2.2007 was issued to the plaintiff and he

claimed the amount of Rs.25,98,690/-. Therefore, the plaintiff

is not entitled for the amount. Hence, sought to dismiss the

suit. 6. In order to prove his case, plaintiff got examined

himself as PW.1 and got marked the documents as Exs.P.1 to

P26, to disprove the case of the plaintiff, on behalf of

defendants, one Sri N Nagaraj, who is the Executive Engineer

of BESCOM was examined as DW1 and got marked document

Ex.D1. 7. Based on the aforesaid pleadings, the Trial Court

framed the following issues: 8. The Trial Court considering the oral and

documentary evidence on record has recorded a finding that

the plaintiff has proved that it is a registered licensed

electrical firm and defendants have failed to prove that

plaintiff has violated the terms and conditions imposed and

also failed to confirm its quality standards. Accordingly, the

trial court by the impugned judgment and decree, decreed the

suit of the plaintiff for a sum of Rs.25,98,690/- with interest at

the rate of 12% p.a. from the date of the suit till its 7 realization. Hence, the defendants have filed the present

regular first appeal. 9. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties

to the lis. 10. Sri Devaraju, learned counsel for the defendants

contended with vehemence that the impugned judgment and

decree passed by the Trial Court is erroneous and contrary to

the material on record and liable to be set aside. He further

contended that due to the scam on account of various

irregularities in the quality of works done by the plaintiff and

other contractors and as per the Report of the Technical Audit

and Quality Control, BESCOM, the BESCOM thereby issued

directions to the concerned officers not to process the Bills of

the Contractors who are involved in the scam. He would

further contend that the suit filed by the plaintiff is barred by

limitation. He further contended that the interest at 12% p.a.

awarded by the Trial Court on the principal amount is

exorbitant without there being any agreement or any clause

in the contract entered into between the parties. Therefore, 8 he contended that all these materials have not been

considered by the Trial Court while passing the impugned

judgment and decree. Therefore, he sought to allow the

appeal. 11. Per contra, Sri T R Jayarama, learned counsel for

the plaintiff while justifying the impugned judgment and

decree contended that the defendants have not disputed that

the plaintiff is a registered company carrying on its function

and has also not disputed that they have entrusted the

electrical work to the plaintiff as per the work award dated

5.2.2007 and further contended that the suit is filed within the

stipulated time and therefore, the question of limitation would

not arise as contended by the learned counsel for the

defendants. He further contended that the interest awarded

by the Trial Court is just and proper. Therefore, he sought to

dismiss the appeal. 12. In view of the aforesaid rival contentions urged by

the learned counsel for the parties, the points that arise for

our consideration in the present appeal are: 9 1) Whether the defendants have made out a
 case to interfere with the impugned
 judgment and decree passed by the Trial
 Court decreeing the suit of the plaintiff as
 prayed for? 2) Whether the defendants have made out a
 case to modify the interest on the principal
 amount awarded by the Trial Court in the
 facts of the present case? 13. We have given our anxious consideration to the

arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties

and perused the entire material including the original records

carefully. 14. This Court being the Appellate Court, in order to

re-appreciate the entire material on record, it is relevant to

consider the evidence of P.W.1, D.W.1 and also the material

documents adduced by the respective parties, which are as

under: . There is no dispute with regard to the entrustment of 10 the work to her but only disputing the payment of
 approved bills as her company has been falsely indicted
 in the alleged irregularity and substandard work. In the
 cross examination of P.W.1, the defendants did not elicit
 any thing, as what is the loss caused by P.W.1 and as to
 how P.W.1 is involved in the alleged scam. She has
 produced the documents Ex.P.1to Ex.P.26 various
 correspondence, bills issued by the plaintiff and
 therefore, he sought to decree the suit. (b) In order to disprove the case of the plaintiff,
 D.W-1 was examined who reiterated the averments
 made in the written statement, but has not disputed the
 entrustment of work to the plaintiff nor submission of
 bills from him and approval of the bills, the dispute is
 that financial loss was caused to the defendants because
 of irregularities. Therefore, sought to dismiss the suit. 15. We have gone through the entire material on

record, it is clear from the evidence on record that the plaintiff

is a registered Company and there is no dispute with

entrustment of work to the plaintiff by the defendants

supplying and providing intermediate poles and realignment of

poles in Kolar urban sub-division, Kolar. It is also not

disputed by the defendants in the written statement with 11 regard to entrustment of work to the plaintiff and that the

executive visiting the work place in order to verify the

progress of the work done by the plaintiff by using schedule

rates. D.W.1 himself admitted the electrical contract work

was entrusted to P.W.1. D.W.1 further admitted in the cross

examination, if according to D.W.1, P.W.1 has caused loss to

their company on account of carrying out substandard

electrical contract work, the said enquiry should start with

issuance of notice either to the plaintiff or the other

contractors, but they have not placed any such documents to

establish before the court that even the P.W.1 is also the root

cause for causing the substandard contract work which does

not comply to the specification. The defendants completely

failed to establish before the court what was the in action or

misdeed committed by P.W.1 and till then there cannot be any

reason to withhold the bill amount only on the basis of

anonymous letter written by a person to the then Energy

Minister. It is also brought to the notice of this Court, in

similar circumstances the bills of the contractors are already

released. 16. Trial Court considering both oral and documentary

evidence on record, recorded a finding that it is evident from

the record that defendants are due to the plaintiff a sum of

Rs.25,98,690/- and it is admitted that plaintiff was entrusted

with the electrical contract work for the period from 2006-07

and 2007-08. So far as the say of P.W.1 that he has

borrowed loan to complete the electrical contract work

requires to be accepted because the defendants have not

disputed these aspects and plaintiff is not directly involved in

any of the enquires and investigation done by the defendants

to detect irregularities. Therefore, the trial court is of the view

that the plaintiff is entitled for the decreetal amount as prayed

for. 17. Admittedly, the material on record clearly depicts

that the work was entrusted to the plaintiff with work awards

dated 5.2.2007 and there is no material to prove in the

contract entered between the parties, that there is a condition

stipulated with regard to percentage of interest at the rate of

12% p.a. on the due amount. It is also not in dispute, the 13 work done by the plaintiff is satisfied by the defendants and

after completion of the said work undertaken, submission of

bills for approval and approval of bills by the defendants is

also not in dispute. Therefore, we are of the considered

opinion that the trial court has proceeded to award 12% in the

absence of any contract between the parties requires to be

modified taking into consideration the admitted facts and

circumstances stated supra, the plaintiff has already borrowed

loan from others to complete the work and therefore he is

entitled for reasonable interest at 10% p.a. instead of 12%, to

that extent the impugned judgment and decree passed by the

trial Court so far as interest is concerned has to be modified. 18. For the reasons stated above, the 1st point raised

in the present appeal is answered in the negative holding

that the defendants have not made out any ground to

interfere with the impugned judgment and decree passed by

the Trial Court, decreeing the suit of the plaintiff for recovery

of Rs.25,98,690/-. 19. The 2nd point raised in the present appeal is

answered partly affirmative holding that the defendants have

made out a case to reduce the interest awarded by the Trial

Court, in the facts and circumstances of the present case.

Accordingly, the interest awarded by the Trial Court is

modified from 12% p.a. to 10% p.a. on the principal amount

and the plaintiff is entitled for interest at the rate of 10% per

annum from the date of the suit till the date of realization of

the principal amount of Rs.25,98,690/-. 20. In view of the above, we pass the following: Ordered accordingly. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/- JUDGE

bkm