The aforesaid appeal has been filed by the assessee
against the impugned final order dated 23.09.2011, passed by
Ld. Assessing Officer u/s 143(3)/144C(1) in pursuance of the
direction given by the Dispute Resolution Panel-I, New Delhi
(DRP) vide order dated 02.08.2011, for the Assessment Year
2008-09. 2. At the outset, grounds no.1 to 2.2 has not been pressed,
therefore, the same are being dismissed as not pressed. The I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 2 other effective ground which has been raised from grounds
no.3 to 9 are that; the learned Assessing Officer and DRP has
erred in law and on facts in characterizing the receipts
relating to sale of software aggregating to Rs.82,90,35,130/-
as "Royalty" which has been brought to tax @ 10% in view of
the India-Ireland DTAA as well as under the provision of Section 9(1)(vii) of the Income Tax Act. 3. The facts in brief are that Adobe Systems Software
Ireland Ltd. (hereinafter referred to 'assessee') is a company
incorporated under the laws of Ireland and is engaged into
the licensing and distribution of computer software (Adobe
products) outside of North America including India. Since, it
is a tax resident of Ireland, therefore, assessee has claimed
beneficial treaty provision of India-Ireland DTAA. The
assessee had entered into non exclusive distribution
agreements with Indian companies, namely, Ingram Micro
India Private Limited; and Redington (India) Limited, wherein
they have been appointed as distributor to distribute Adobe
products in India. These products are delivered by the
assessee to the Indian Distributors 'ex-warehouse' from the
warehousing facility of the assessee outside India. For the
Assessment Year 2008-09, the assessee has filed its return of
income on 31st March, 2010 declaring 'Nil' income from the
consideration paid by the Indian distributors to the assessee
towards the purchase of Adobe products on the ground that
the same is not taxable in India either as business income in I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 3 absence of PE or as a 'royalty' under Article 12 of the Treaty.
The arrangement and conduct between the assessee and the
Indian distributor has been stated to be on principle to
principle basis. The Assessing Officer in the course of draft
assessment proceedings sought explanation from the
assessee as to why the amount received by the assessee upon
sale of Adobe software to the Indian distributors should not
be taxed as 'royalty'. The assessee after explaining the nature
of transaction, produced copy of agreements entered into with
the Indian distributors for the distribution of software
products; and the key feature of the transaction emanating
from the said agreement have been stated to be following:- 4. Thereafter, the assessee submitted that in terms of Article 12 of DTAA which defines the scope of "royalty", the
payment in concern will not fall under the ambit and scope of
royalty, because only the payments which allow a person to
use/acquire to use, copyright in a literary, artistic or scientific
work alone are covered within the definition of "royalty". Here
the payment made is for acquiring the right to use the
product itself without allowing any right to use the copyright
in the product and the same is not covered within the scope
and definition of "royalty". Strong reliance was placed on the
definition of 'copyright' as given in Section 14 of ' Indian
Copyright Act, 1957 ' and also placed reliance on Article 12 of I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 5 OECD Model Tax Convention. Apart from that, various
decisions were also relied upon which have been incorporated
in the impugned assessment order. It was further submitted
that the receipts from supply of software by the assessee does
not qualify royalty because; • No access to intellectual property right/ source codes in the
 software (i.e. Know-how, logic, programming techniques, etc
 underlying the software) is granted to Indian distributors. This
 is evident from the following clause of the attached agreement
 between Adobe Ireland and Ingram: 5. The learned Assessing Officer rejected the assessee's
contention on following grounds:- 6. Thereafter, AO referred to the definition of Article 12 of
DTAA which he has wrongly taken from India-US treaty and
held that payment received by the assessee from licensing of
software is qualified to be 'royalty' not only as per the Indian
Income Tax Act as well as under the DTAA, because of the
following reasons:- The development of such software requires highly technical
manpower, with highly sophisticated infrastructure and huge
investments. Similarly the software can also be considered as
a scientific work. Therefore, the software can also be said to
be information developed out of scientific experience. (iii) The payment is also qualified for the use of secret
formula or process. The software of Adobe when installed in a
computer responds to every instruction in a specific way. It
recognizes the command and as per its programming yields
the desired result and reflects the same on the output devices.
This argument is further strengthen from the fact that cost of
the medium viz., computer discs, floppy etc.., on which the
programme is written is negligible as compared to the overall
price of software. Had it not been a secret programming,
anybody could have written these types of programs and sold I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 10 it at a very low price as compared to the price of the Adobe
software. (iv) The assessee's main argument is that there is a clear
distinction between acquisition of copyright in the computer
program on one hand and the acquisition of packaged
software, which incorporates a copy of the copyrighted
program, on the other hand. As per DTAA definition even a
partial use of the copyright by the end user will be treated as
a royalty. Under the VPP Model of licensing of the appellant
only single copy of software is sent to the organization and the
same is copied on to numerous computers of various end
users. In such licensing method the copying rights are inherent
which are at par with rights to OEM. Therefore in such method
of licensing even the copy right have been transferred.
Therefore, the sale in this method of licensing is similar to
OEM and is clearly taxable as royalty. Even in FPP licensing
system the end user has a right to use the software to enable
the user to operate the programme and to allow the user to
copy the program to the user's computer hard drive. Therefore,
the end user has acquired the limited rights to copy the
software on its computer hard drive and the payment is
towards the use of copyright of literary/scientific work
Therefore, it is immaterial whether the same is sold as shrink
wrap or otherwise, the consideration for the same win still be
treated as royalty. It is also immaterial whether the copying is
"infringement' under copyright or not. All the provisions of copy
right will not be relevant to determine the nature of payments
under DTAA or I.T. Act if the payment is for the use of any
copyright it will fall in the category of Royalty." 7. Lastly, he strongly placed reliance upon the decision of
the Tribunal in the case of GraceMac Corporation and after
quoting the said judgment extensively, he taxed the entire
payment of Rs.82,90,35,190/- @10% as royalty income. 8. Learned DRP has confirmed the order of the Assessing
Officer. However, before that the DRP has also analyzed the
relevant clauses of the agreement between the assessee and
the distributors; Ingram and Redignton. The relevant clauses
of the agreement as incorporated in the DRP order are
reproduced hereunder for the sake of ready reference:- transferable license to supply the Software Products in the
Territory, and this shall include the right to license Dealers to
supply the Software Products in the Territory This Agreement
is not to be interpreted or construed as an agreement between
Adobe and Distributor for the sale or license of the copyright in
the Software Products. Distributor shall advise its Dealers and
other customers that Distributor has a license to supply the
Software Products but not the copyright in the Software
Product Distributor, its Dealers and customers' are prohibited
from duplicating, reverse engineering, selling or licensing the
Software Product or the copyright in the Software Product, or
using the Software Product for any purpose other than as set
out in this Agreement Without prejudice to the foregoing,
Adobe reserves the right to: deal directly in the Software
Products in the Territory, including the right to license End
Users directly, via Internet distribution or otherwise; license
other distributors for the Software Products in Ihe Territory;
provide technical support in the Territory, and to enter into
arrangements or agreements with third parties inducing but
not limited to End Users, Dealers, OEMs, systems integrators
or VARs in connection with the Software Products in the
Territory. Eligibility and Distribution Rights: Without prejudice to the I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 14 provisions of Clause 2 2 (Nature of Appointment), Adobe
grants Distributor a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to
distribute the Software Products in the Territory, and
Distributor acknowledges that each Software Product,
including each TLP Product, is to be licensed to End Users in
accordance with the terms and conditions of its current EULA
The terms of the EULA are not negotiable and shall not be
amended or modified for any End User Distributor shall
distribute the software Products solely in the form and
packaging in which they were obtained from Adobe.
Distributor shall not alter the design or contents of any
Software Product, or remove any item or document from the
Software Product package, without Adobe's prior written
approval In addition, Distributor agrees to distribute Software
Products that are "Collections" intact and not to separate any
of the contents of "Collections" packages for individual
distribution Distributor agrees not to distribute the Software
Products by rental or lease Distributor shall not supply
Software Products to Dealers outside the Territory, or to
Dealers who Distributor knows, or by exercise or commercially
reasonable efforts should know, will distribute Software
Products outside the Territory Any distribution by Distributor
of Software Products outside the Territory shall be a material
breach of this Agreement for which Adobe may terminate this
Agreement under Clause 16.3 (Termination for Cause)
Distributor is obligated to advise Dealers and other customers
of this restriction If Adobe makes Education Versions of the
Software Products available to Distributor, which products are
to be distributed to Educational Establishments only I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 15 Distributor shall not supply Education Versions of the
 Software Products to customers who are not Educational
 Establishments, or to customers who will distribute such
 products to customers who are not Educational
 Establishments Distributor is obligated to advise Dealers and
 other customers of this restriction. (x) Restrictions on Copying and Decompiling: DISTRIBUTOR
 AGREES NOT TO TRANSLATE THE SOFTWARE INTO
 ANOTHER COMPUTER LANGUAGE, IN WHOLE OR IN PART
 Distributor shall not make copies or make media translations
 of the Software products including, without limitation, the User
 Documentation, in whole or in part without Adobe's prior
 written approval Distributor agrees that if, for any reason, it
 comes into possession of any source code, or portion thereof,
 for any Adobe product, not generally provided by Adobe as a
 part of a Software Product, it shall not use or disclose such
 source code and it shall immediately deliver all copies of such
 source code to Adobe Nothing contained in this agreement
 shall be interpreted so as to exclude or prejudice the rights (if
 any) of Distributor or any End User under the European
 Directive on the Legal Protection of Computer Programs (as
 implemented-.in the relevant jurisdiction) with respect to the
 Software Products. 9. After relying upon the definition of 'end user' as given in
the said agreement, the DRP held that license fees includes
the fee for license to supply the software products in the
Territory which comprises the larger part of license fee. The
DRP has further noted the following facts before holding that I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 16 both registered under the domestic law as well as the treaty.
The said amount is to be taxed as royalty:- the Disk in which the software is enshrined. Larger part of the
 license fee is for the software. (iv) The End User; can use the software only if it binds itself to
 the terms and conditions prescribed as per the End User
 Licensing Agreement (EULA). (v) On acceptance of EULA, the End User can use the software
 but he can use the software only after he is granted "Activation
 Code". Unless Activation Code is given, the computer programme
 cannot be used. (vi) As a result of entire exercise, End User can make use of the
 software which is protected by the Intellectual Property Rights." 10. Before us learned counsel for the assessee, Mr. Ravi
Sharma, at the outset submitted that the issue under
consideration has to be seen in the context of treaty
provisions which overrides the provisions of the Act. Here in
this case, the main issue in question is a sale of copyright
product by the assessee to the Indian Distributor who in turn
has sold to Indian customers. The right to use of the software
program was a part of the copyright in the software and now
this issue stands squarely covered by the decision of Hon'ble
Delhi High Court in the case of DIT vs. Nokia Network OY,
358 ITR 259; and DIT vs. New Skies Satellite BV, (2016) I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 17 382 ITR 114. Apart from that he also relied upon the
following decisions:- Infrasoft Ltd. [2014] 264 CTR 329 (Delhi). 2. Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the case of Principal Commissioner of
 Income-tax v. M. Tech India (P .) Ltd. [2016] 381 ITR 31 (Delhi). 3. Judgment of the Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai Bench 'L' in the case of ADIT
 (IT) -- 3(2) v. Baan Global BV [2016] 49 ITR (T) 73 (Mumbai - Trib.) 4. Judgment of the Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai Bench 'L' in the case of Deputy Director of Income-tax, (IT) 2(1), Mumbai v. Shell Information
 Technology International BV [2017] 55 ITR (T) 372 (Mumbai - Trib.) 5. Judgment of the Hon'ble ITAT Delhi Bench 'E' in the case of Black
 Duck Software Inc. v. Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax
 International Taxation, Circle 1(1)2, New Delhi [2017] 190 TTJ 284
 (Delhi - Trib.) 11. Further drawing our attention to the relevant clauses of
the agreement between the assessee and the Indian
distributors, he pointed out that the Indian distributors have
been granted a non exclusive, non transferable license to
supply Adobe Software Products in India and the assessee
retains exclusive ownership of the intellectual property rights
vested in the software as well as in the trade mark. The
software products have been distributed by the Indian
distributors as a shrink wrap products and the Indian
distributors have been granted the license to distribute shrink
wrap products to the end users in India with copyright in
such software vested with Adobe at all times. The I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 18 distributors, the dealers and customers have been prohibited
from duplicating, reverse engineering, selling or licensing the
software products or otherwise exploiting the copyright in the
said software products or using them for any purpose other
than that set out in the agreement. There is no separate
consideration payable by the Indian distributors for any right
granted to distribute the software products in India. The
payment at the most can be reckoned for acquiring the right
to use the product itself without allowing any right in the
copyright product. After referring to the Section 14 of the
' Copyright Act ' and various exceptions carved out in Section
56 of the said Act, he submitted that none of the activities as
enshrined in various clauses of Section 14 would apply.
Thereafter, he referred to paragraphs 12 to 14 of OECD Model
Tax Convention of 2010 and also UN Model commentary of Article 12 , especially as given in paragraph 3 clause (12) and
(13) and submitted that even under these commentaries; the
nature of payment received by the assessee would not be
treated as 'royalty'. The relevant extracts of the said
commentaries were also filed before us. Thus, he submitted
that now in the wake of plethora of judgment including that of
the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court, the said payment
cannot be treated as royalty, and therefore, same cannot be
brought to tax in India. 12. On the other hand, learned CIT-DR, Shri T.M. Shiv
Kumar strongly relying upon the order of the Assessing
Officer as well as the DRP, submitted that the treaty between I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 19 India and Ireland is dated 20th February, 2002 and now there
is an amendment in Section 9(1)(vi) , by Finance Act 2012,
with retrospective effect, wherein the scope and definition of
'royalty' has been explained and therefore, the said definition
of 'royalty' has to be read into the treaty, because the
definition of 'royalty' given in the treaty and the earlier Income
Tax Act are the same. Now, in view of the amended provision
in terms of Explanation 4 to Section 9(1)(vi) , use or right to
use a computer software will fall within the ambit and scope
of 'royalty'. In so far as the judgments of Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court, he submitted that though the said
decision are in favour of the assessee, but Revenue has not
accepted the said stand of the Hon'ble High Court and the
matter is sub-judice before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. In any
case, he submitted that once a copyright has been given to
use the computer software, then it falls within the ambit and
scope of 'royalty' both under the treaty as well as under the Income Tax Act . Therefore, the said payment received by the
assessee has rightly been taxed @ 10%. 13. In rejoinder, learned counsel for the assessee submitted
that now the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court has
categorically clarified that the amendment in the Income Tax
Act brought with retrospective effect cannot be read into the
treaty and it has been clearly held in the case of DIT vs.
Infrasoft Ltd. (supra) and also by the Tribunal in the case of
ADIT vs. Baan Global BV ( supra) and Black Duck Software
Inc. Vs. DCIT (supra). DECISION 14. We have heard the rival submissions, perused the
relevant findings given in the impugned orders as well as
material referred to before us. The assessee Company is an
Irish Tax Resident and has distributed Adobe Software
Products to Indian distributors for onward sale and
distribution to the customers in India. The copy of the
agreements between the assessee and the Indian distributors
has been placed in the paper book from pages 1 to 57. The
relevant clauses of the said agreement had already been
referred to while quoting from the DRP's order. However, for
the sake of ready reference, relevant clauses are reiterated
hereunder:- .......... 2.2 Nature of Appointment. Subject to the terms and
conditions set forth herein, Adobe hereby grants Distributor,
and Distributor hereby accepts, a non-exclusive, non-
transferable license to supply the Software Products in the
Territory, and this shall include the right to license Dealers to
supply the Software Products in the Territory. This Agreement
is not to be interpreted or construed ns an agreement between
Adobe and Distributor for the sale or license of the copyright in
the Software Products. Distributor shall advise its Dealers and
other customers that Distributor has a license to supply the
Software Products but not the copyright in the Software
Product. Distributor, its Dealers and customers are prohibited
from duplicating, reverse engineering, selling or licensing the
Software Product or the copyright in the Software Product, or
using the Software Product, for any purpose other than of set
out in this Agreement. Without prejudice to the foregoing,
Adobe reserves the right to: deal directly in the Software
Products in the Territory, including the right to license End
Users directly, via Internet distribution or otherwise; License
other distributors for the Software Products in the Territory;
provide technical support in the Territory, and to enter into
arrangements or agreements with third parties including but
not limited to End Users, Dealers, OEMs, systems integrators
or VARs in connection with the Software Products in the
Territory. 2.3 List of Software Products, future Adobe Software I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 23 Products may be added to the License Fee List and Adobe
shall use reasonable efforts to notify' Distributor within thirty
(30) days of any such addition. Adobe reserves the right to
discontinue the distribution or availability of any Software
Product upon thirty (30) days prior notice to Distributor. If
Adobe discontinues a Software Product so that it becomes an
End of Life Software Product, Adobe shall provide Distributor
with thirty (30) days prior notice. Returns of such End of lifc
Software Products shall be governed by Clause 5.9 (New
Versions). Notices by Adobe under this Clause 2.3 (List of
Software Products) maybe made by Adobe's on-line sales
portal at http://partners.adobe.com or similar partner
communication web sites, by fax or via email. 2.4 Distribution under License. Distributor agrees to use
commercially reasonable efforts to: distribute tire Software
Products under license in the Territory on a continuing basis,
conduct its business in a manner that favourably reflects upon
the Software Products and Adobe, and comply with good
business practices and all laws and regulations relevant to
this Agreement and its subject matter. 2.5 Anti-Piracy /Unauthorized Product Restrictions.
Distributor agrees that it will not deal in illegal copies of Adobe
software products or Unauthorized Products. Adobe reserves
the right to terminate this Agreement with immediate effect if
Distributor is found to be dealing in illegal copies of Adobe
software products or Unauthorised Products. Such termination
would be without prejudice to 'adobe's other remedies if any
Adobe products were involved. A breach of Clause 3.1
(Eligibility and Distribution Rights) prohibiting distribution of I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 24 the Software Products outside the Territory shall also be
deemed - breach of this Clause 2 5 (Anti- Piracy/Unauthorised
Product Restrictions). 3.. Rights and Restrictions of Distributor. 3.1 Eligibility and Distribution Rights, Without prejudice to
the provisions of Clause 2.2 (Nature of Appointment), Adobe
grants Distributor a non exclusive, non-transferable license to
distribute die Software Products in the Territory, and
Distributor acknowledges dint each Software Product,
including each TIP Product, is to be licensed to End Users in
accordance with the terms and conditions of its current HULA.
The terms of tile EULA are not negotiable end shah not be
amended or modified for any End User. Distributor shall
distribute die Software Products solely in the form and
packaging in which they were obtained from Adobe.
Distributor shall not alter die design or contents of any
Software Product, or remove any item or document from the
Software Product package, without Adobe's prior written
approval. In addition, Distributor agrees to distribute Software
Products that are "Collections" intact and not to separate any
of the contents of "Collections" packages for individual
distribution. Distributor agrees not to distribute the Software
Products by rental or lease. Distributor shall not supply
Software Products to Dealers outside the Territory, or to
Dealers who Distributor knows, or by exercise of commercially
reasonable efforts should know, will distribute Software
Products outside the Territory. Any distribution by Distributor
of Software Products outside the Territory shall be a material
breach of this Agreement for which Adobe may terminate this I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 25 Agreement under Clause 16.3 (Termination for Cause).
Distributor is obligated to advise Dealers and other customers
of this restriction, if Adobe makes Education Versions of the
Software Products available to Distributor, such products are
to be distributed to Educational Establishments only.
Distributor shall not supply Education Versions of the
Software Products to customers who are not Educational
Establishments, or to customers who will distribute such
products to customers who are not Educational
Establishments. Distributor is obligated to advise Dealers and
other customers of this restriction. 3.2 Restrictions on Copying and Decompiling.
DISTRIBUTOR AGREES NOT TO TRANSLATE THE SOFTWARE
INTO ANOTHER COMPUTER LANGUAGE, IN WHOLE OR IN
PART. Distributor shall not make copies or make media
translations of the Software Products including, without
limitation, the User Documentation, in whole or in part without
Adobe's prior written approval, Distributor that if, for any
reason, it comes into possession of any source code, or portion
thereof, for any Adobe product, not generally provided by
Adobe as a part of a Software Product, it shall not use or
disclose such source code and it shall immediately deliver nil
copies of such source code to Adobe, Nothing contained in this
Agreement shall be Interpreted so as to exclude or prejudice
the rights (if any) of Distributor or any End User under the
European Directive on the Legal Protection of Computer
Programs (as implemented in the relevant jurisdiction) with
respect to the Software Products. .......... 11.1. Ownership. The structure, organization and code of the
 Software is proprietary to Adobe, its licensors and suppliers,
 and the Software Products are the Intellectual Property of
 Adobe, its licensors and suppliers. Adobe, its licensors and
 suppliers retain exclusive ownership of the Intellectual
 Property rights vested in the Software and the Trade Marks.
 Distributor shall take all reasonable measures to protect the
 Intellectual Property rights of Adobe, its licensors and
 suppliers in the Software Products and the Trade Marks,
 including providing such assistance and taking such
 measures as arc reasonably requested by Adobe from time to
 time. Except as provided herein, Distributor is not granted any
 rights to any Intellectual Property or any other rights,
 franchises or licenses with respect to the Software, the User
 Documentation, die Software Products or the Trade Marks." 15. From a bare reading of the aforesaid clauses, it is seen
that, what assessee has granted to the Indian distributors is,
a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to supply the
software products in the Indian Territory. There is no sale or
license of the copyright in the software products albeit the
distributor has license to supply product, but not the
copyright in the software product. Apart from that, the
distributors or its dealers or the customers are prohibited
from duplicating, reverse engineering, selling or licensing the
software product or the copyright in the software product or
using the software product for any purpose other than which
has been set out in the agreement. The distributors can
distribute the software solely in the form of product which has I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 27 been obtained from the assessee and distributor shall not
alter the design or contents of the said product. Further, the
distributor is prohibited from translating the software in any
other computer language in whole or in part. Thus, it is a
clear cut sale of shrink-wrap software product from the
assessee company to the Indian distributors and then to the
end users. Now under this agreement, whether the payment
received from sale of such a copyrighted software product can
be reckoned as "royalty" under the India-Ireland DTAA? The
relevant paragraph 3(a) of Article 12 of the said treaty reads
as under:- 16. The main emphasis is on payment 'for the use of or
right to use any copyright of various nature, which connotes
an exclusive right to use any 'copyright' in an article which
is in the nature of the terms defined therein and said use of
copyright has to be given to the end user. The concept of I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 28 'copyright' first of all needs to be discerned. In a famous
treatise on copyright, Copinger and Skones James on
copyright (1999 Edn.) has defined copyright as; 'Copyright
gives the owner of the copyright in a work of any description
the exclusive right to authorize or prohibit the exploitation of the
copyright work by the third parties. This includes the right to
copy the work itself and also to use the work in other ways
protected under the law'. Copyright alludes to some kind of
negative right. Further passage from the same commentary is
worth taking note of; 'It is important to recognize that
ownership of copyright in a work is different from the
ownership of the physical material in which the copyright work
may happen to be embodied. Just as the owner of the physical
material on which a copyright work is first recorded is not
necessarily the first owner of the copyright, so the transfer of
title to the original physical material does not by itself operate
to transfer the title to the copyright........' Thus, the rights
associated with the copyright should be of such a nature
which enables the recipients to commercially exploit the
product and if such exclusive right for commercial
exploitation of the product is not given, then it cannot be
reckoned that 'use or right to use in a copyright' has been
given by the recipient to the payer. A limited right to use a
copyright product with a non exclusive license to the end user
being some kind of license program through the computer to
the end user does not tantamount to the use of copyright or
right to use the same. A distinction has to be drawn between I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 29 the passing of a right to use and facilitating the use of a
product for which the owner has the copyright. It is a sine qua
non that some kind of enjoyment or all the rights which the
copy right owner has, is necessary to trigger the concept of
"royalty" as defined in the treaty. The non exclusive and non
transferable license enabling the use of a copyrighted product
cannot be construed as an authority to enjoy any or all of the
enumerated rights ingrained in a copyright. The parting of
some kind of intellectual property right inherent in and
attached to the software product in favour of the
licensee/customer is what has been contemplated in the
phrase, use and right to use the copyright in the treaty. 17. Since copyright has not been specifically defined under
the treaty, therefore, the courts have held that the definition
as enshrined in ' Indian Copyright Act, 1957 ' has to be seen.
The relevant section of the copyright Act reads as under: Provided that such commercial rental does not apply in respect
 of computer programmes where the programme itself is not the
 essential object of the rental]; The rights enshrined in the aforesaid section are exclusive in
nature and anyone who carry out any of the activities as
mentioned in the aforesaid section or authorizes someone else
to carry any of such activity, will alone fall within the scope
and definition of 'copyright'. In other words, if any of these
rights are parted with in favour of another so that the other
person can enjoy that right in the same manner in which
owner can, then it can be said that those specific rights
concerning the use of copyright have been conferred on him.
The nature of right which has been granted depends upon the
type of work; however such activity must include the
exclusive right to: 18. Further section 51 of the Copyright Act enlists
copyright in a work which shall be deemed to be infringed;
and section 52 specifies the acts which do not construe
infringement of copyright. For the sake of ready reference
relevant portion of section 51 and 52 are reproduced
hereunder:- commercial personal use. " 19. From the aforesaid provisions, it can be inferred that
'copyright' is not a positive right but a negative right, i.e.,
right to refrain others from exploiting the work without the
copyright owners' consent or license. The copyright in a work
remains with the copyright owner and the purchaser has not
bought any part of it and he cannot lawfully enjoy any of
those exclusive rights, reproduction, adaptation or the like,
which ownership of the copyright preserves exclusively for the
copyright owner. Purchaser may buy the copyrighted article
and can use the article as he deems fit, but it does not enable
him to use the article in a way which infringes the vendors'
right. 20. Here in the present case, from the reading of the
relevant clauses of the argument, it is quite ostensible that no
use or right to use of a copyright in the software has been
ever divested either to the distributors or to the end users.
Even for the sake of argument, it is accepted that copyright
has been transferred, then requirement of law is that,
assignments of the copyrights has to be complied with as
provided in sections 18 & 19 of the Copyright Act, which
reads as under: 21. Thus, the mode of assignments should be by writing
and subsection (2) of section 19 requires that the assignment
of copyright in any work must; identify such work; specify I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 36 right assign; the duration of the assignment and the
territorial extent of the assignment. In none of the
agreements, it can be seen that there is any kind of
assignment of copyright. 22. Coming to the commentary given in OECD Model Tax
Convention, the relevant paragraph dealing with payment of
'royalty' are as under:- [Emphasis in bold is ours] 22. Thus, in view of the OECD commentary also such a
consideration received on the sale of copyrighted software
product without any kind of transfer or assigning of fully or
partially copyright therein to the end user does not amount to
royalty. Such guideline of OECD can well be taken note of,
since the treaty which is subject matter of consideration is
India-Ireland treaty, which is based on OECD Model
Convention, therefore, the interpretation of the term 'royalty'
as given in the OECD Model Convention have some pervasive
value. In any case, we have already held that in terms of Section 14 of the Copyright Act, none of the rights enshrined
therein have been parted with the assessee in favour of the
assessee or the end customer inasmuch as they can enjoy the
right in the same manner in which the assessee can; and no
such specific right concerning the use of copyright have been
conferred by the assessee to these persons or end user.
Assessee has not been given any of the authority to do any of
the act as contemplated in various sub clauses of Section 14 .
Thus, under the Indian copyright Act also, there is no passing
of any kind of right to use by the assessee to the Indian
distributor. 23. In any case, now this issue stands squarely covered
by the judgment of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in
several cases like, Nokia Networks (supra); DIT vs. Infrasoft
Ltd. (supra); and CIT vs. Alcatel Lucent Canada , (2015)
231 taxmann 87. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
DIT vs. Infrasoft have threadbare discussed this issue in the
context of India-US, DTAA, which has by and large the same
definition, to come to a conclusion that mere transfer of right
to use copy righted material, i.e., software program cannot be
taxed as 'royalty' in terms of Article 12(3). The Hon'ble High
Court has also held that amendment in the domestic law even
from retrospective effect cannot be rad into the treaty. The
relevant observation and ratio laid down in sum and
substance is summarised hereunder:- includes both tangible and intangible/incorporeal property
which is capable of abstraction, consumption and use and
which can be transmitted, transferred, delivered, stored,
possessed etc. The software programmes have all these
attributes. In Advent Systems Ltd. v. Unisys Corpn., (925 F. 2d 670 (3rd
 Cir. 1991)), relied on by Mr. Sorabjee, the court was concerned
 with interpretation of uniform civil code which "applied to
 transactions in goods", The goods therein were defined as "all
 things (including specially manufactured goods) which are
 moveable at the time of the identification for sale", It was held: 56. A fortiorari when the assessee supplies the software
 'which is incorporated on a CD, it has supplied tangible
 property and the payment made by the cellular operator for
 acquiring such property cannot be regarded as a payment by
 way of royalty.' 6. This Court also noticed that the 1TAT had in addition relied
upon other judgment of this Court i.e. DIT v. Nokia Networks, I.T.A. No.5433/Del/2011 52 [2013] 358 ITR 259"