1. The present Information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition
 Act, 2002 ("Act") by Mr. R. Gunasekaran ("Informant") against Broadcast
 Audience Research Council ("OP"/"BARC") alleging contravention of the
 provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act. 2. The OP is stated to be a television audience measurement rating agency registered as
 a not-for-profit company under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013. The OP is
 further stated to be a joint industry body with stakeholder representation from all the
 relevant stakeholders in the audience measurement ecosystem, viz., the Indian
 Broadcasting & Digital Foundation (IBDF), the Indian Society of Advertisers (ISA)
 and the Advertising Agencies Association of India (AAAI). The OP is involved in
 the business of measurement, analysis and provision of television viewership data to
 those who avail of its services, such as advertisers, broadcasters and advertising
 agencies. 3. The Informant has averred that the services of the OP are the sole currency of the
 television advertising industry, based on which, advertisement campaigns for all
 commodities are planned and released by various manufacturers and suppliers of
 products. The Informant is stated to have recently come to know, through TV
 channels and a few reports, about the 'fake TRP' scam and how a few news channels
 have been making payments to increase their viewership and thereby, their TRP
 ratings. 4. The Informant has stated that the OP had suspended reporting of ratings for a period
 of 8-12 weeks for news channels while continuing to publish ratings of other
 channels. The Informant has submitted that if the system is faulty in respect of news
 channels, it can be faulty in respect of other genres of channels too. Thus, when
 institutional integrity has been compromised, it is improper to allow such an
 institution to publish ratings. 5. The Informant has alleged that the OP had colluded with a private news channel and
 a media outlet and manipulated TRP ratings of the said news channel and media
 outlet such that they are perceived as the highest grossing television channels which
 would, in turn, invite more advertisements. As per the Informant, the said collusion
 between the OP and the television channels would amount to an arrangement Case No. 11 of 2021 2 between entities at different stages of production, and the manipulation of TRP has a
 direct and significant impact on the performance of a channel and how it is received
 by the public, and therefore, the OP has entered into an anti-competitive agreement
 which is prohibited under Section 3 of the Act. 6. In relation to his allegations relatable to contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act, the Informant has defined the relevant market as a service of television
 audience measurement and supply of related advisory reports. In relation to the
 dominance of the OP, the Informant has averred that there are no recognizable or
 significant competitors within the relevant market, and furthermore, the OP is
 unaffected by the market forces, being the sole supplier of such TRP ratings.
 Therefore, it occupies a dominant position in the relevant market. 7. The Informant has further submitted that BARC obtains/collects an average sample
 data of only a few of the viewers, who are negligible in number, and this cannot form
 the basis of any result, as the sample size is too small to arrive at a reasonable
 conclusion. It has been stated that this would lead to baseless ratings, making it easy
 for such 'fake TRP' scams by fudging numbers. 8. Based on the above averments and allegations, the Informant prayed the Commission
 to regulate the operations of the OP and also direct the OP, as interim relief, from
 releasing weekly ratings for television channels until the issues are decided by the
 Commission. 9. The Commission considered the Information in its ordinary meeting held on
 15.06.2021 and decided to seek response thereon from the Opposite Party. The
 Informant was also allowed, thereafter, to file its rejoinder, if any, to such reply filed
 by Opposite Parties, with an advance copy to the Opposite Parties. Such reply and
 rejoinder thereto have since been received. 10. The Commission in its ordinary meeting held on 11.11.2021 considered the
 Information and the rejoinder filed by the Informant along with the reply filed by the
 OP and other material available on record and decided to pass an appropriate order
 in due course. 11. The submissions of the Opposite Party are summarised below: (vi) The OP has further averred that no case for violation of Section 3 , or Section
 3(4) specifically, is made out against the OP for the following reasons: 12. Based on the above, the Opposite Party has prayed the Commission to dismiss the
 present Information. 13. The submissions of the Informant in the rejoinder are summarised below: Further, there is no other recognized entity providing the aforementioned
 services, and a customer has no active substitutes for those services provided Case No. 11 of 2021 6 by the OP. Thus, the OP holds a dominant position in the said relevant market.
 The Informant has also relied on the decision of the Commission in Prasar
 Bharati v. TAM Media Research Private Limited to assert its submissions. (iv) The intent of the OP and its employees at the time of the commission of the
 ratings manipulation is relevant and not that of the current employees. Criminal
 intention may be imputed to a company if an offence is committed in relation
 to the business of the company, and such offence is committed by a person or
 body of persons in control of the affairs of the company. (v) Proceedings before the Commission are independent of the criminal
 proceedings as the scope of inquiry is limited to the economic impact and effect
 on market and competition as a result of the ratings manipulation. (vi) The Informant pointed out that though the OP has stated that the TRP Scam
 was committed solely by its erstwhile CEO and COO and no other employee
 or the company itself was involved; it is not understood as to how two
 individuals independently managed to substantially manipulate the ratings
 without the assistance of any other employee when the primary objective of the
 OP is to provide a transparent and reliant television audience measurement
 system. At any rate, the CEO and COO represent the senior management of the
 company and have significant control over the affairs of the OP. 14. The Commission has perused the Information and the material available on record. The Informant has alleged that the manipulation of the ratings has resulted in
 violation of the provisions of Section 3 as well as Section 4 of the Act. In this regard,
 from the reply of the OP, it appears that the OP got a criminal complaint registered
 with the Mumbai Police in relation to 'TRP Scam'. The OP further claims to have
 assisted several law enforcement agencies in their investigations surrounding the
 'ratings manipulation'. The Informant has not contested the said submissions and
 assertions of the OP. 15. The Informant has further averred that the OP has suspended publication of ratings
 of only news channels, whereas if the system is faulty in respect of news channels,
 then it can be ascribed with a fair degree of certainty that the system can also be
 faulty in respect of other genres of channels too. In this regard, the Commission takes
 note of the submission of the OP that, on 15.10.2020, it temporarily decided to cease
 the reporting of news and niche genres with a view to allow its Technical Committee
 to review and augment the existing standards of reporting viewership data for the
 aforesaid genres. Thereafter, the MIB, vide its letter dated 15.02.2021, had asked the
 OP to maintain status quo with respect to temporary pause in the reporting of Channel
 Wise Weekly Data for the news genre. It is further submitted that the OP's Technical
 Committee has provided its recommendations on the revised reporting standards, and
 the OP is in the process of implementing the same once the directions for maintaining
 status quo are lifted by MIB. 16. In view of the above developments and taking the submissions and assertions made
 by the OP and as noted in the preceding paras, the Commission is of the view that it
 is unnecessary to dwell any further on the issues projected in the Information by
 examining the matter on merits, and accordingly, the Information is ordered to be
 closed. 17. Before parting with the order, the Commission deems it appropriate to deal with the
 request of the Opposite Party seeking confidentiality over certain documents /
 information filed by it under Regulation 35 of General Regulations, 2009.
 Considering the grounds put forth by the Opposite Party for the grant of confidential
 treatment, the Commission grants confidentiality to such documents/information in
 terms of Regulation 35 of the General Regulations, 2009, read with Section 57 of the
 Act for a period of three years from the passing of this order. It is, however, made
 clear that nothing used in this order shall be deemed to be confidential or deemed to
 have been granted confidentiality, as the same have been used for the purposes of the
 Act in terms of the provisions contained in Section 57 thereof. 18. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the parties, accordingly. Sd/- (Ashok Kumar Gupta)
 Chairperson

 Sd/- (Sangeeta Verma)
 Member

 Sd/- (Bhagwant Singh Bishnoi)
 Member

New Delhi
Date: 23 / 11 / 2021 Case No. 11 of 2021 9