1. The present appeal has been filed by the appellants
Hari Kishan Garg (brother-in-law, Jeth), Jyoti (sister-in-law,
Jethani) and Kavita Goyal (sister-in-law, Nand) against the
impugned order dated 20.02.2023 passed by Ms. Isra Zaidi, Ld.
MM (Mahila Court), Shahdara Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. 2. Ld. Counsel for the appellants has also filed an
application u/s 5 of the Limitation Act for condoning the delay of
126 days (4 months & 4 days) in filing the present appeal and
argued that delay was caused due to professional negligence of
previous counsel, who did not provide adequate updates and
information regarding the hearings before the concerned court
and failed to advise them that impugned order dated 20.02.2023
was an appealable order and that is why they could not avail the
legal remedy, which they were entitled to, within the period of
limitation and then new counsel was engaged in the month of
June, 2023 and after seeking proper legal advice the present CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 1 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: It is further submitted that the appellants should not suffer due to
defective application filed by the previous counsel and prayed for
condonation of delay of 126 days (4 months 4 days) as the
appellants have good prima facie case in their favour in the
present appeal. Ld. Counsel for the appellants has relied upon
following judgments: 3. It is also argued by Ld. Counsel for the appellants
that Shikha Garg (respondent/complainant) and Satish Garg were
married on 22.04.2008 and have two children. Respondent lived
with father-in-law, mother-in-law and appellants except appellant
no. 3 Kavita Goyal from 2008 to 2010 at Dilshad Garden, New
Delhi. Sister-in-law (Nand) got married in 2004 and has been
living with her husband/family in Tri Nagar, Delhi. In mid 2020,
the respondent and her husband shifted to C-501 (Tower C),
Apex Green Valley, Sector 9, Vaishali, Ghaziabad, UP. Father-in- Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: 4. It is further submitted that respondent and her
husband lived with the father-in-law and mother-in-law together
only for a brief period of 2.5 years from the date of their
marriage and for any alleged incident of domestic violence, there
should be a subsisting domestic relationship and there was a
domestic relationship with the father-in-law and mother-in-law
for a brief period of only 2.5 years i.e. from 2008 to 2010.
Thereafter, they never lived together. The marriage between
respondent and Satish Garg was solemnized in 2008 while the
complaint was filed in 2021 i.e. after a period of almost 13 years
from the date of her marriage alleging acts of domestic violence
since her marriage. Hence, there is an unexplained gross delay in
filing a complaint alleging domestic violence. The allegations in
the DIR dated 28.08.2021 against the appellants are
unsubstantiated and are not supported by any cogent evidence
and documents. Hence, the DIR is devoid of corroborative
evidence to substantiate the allegations and the complaint under
the DV Act against the appellants is a counterblast to Divorce
proceedings between the respondent and her husband Satish Garg
and complaint has been falsely filed to use as a pressure tactics to CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 3 of 14 Digitally signed KUMAR by KUMAR
 RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 2024.11.12
 17:41:00 +0530
 secure illegal gains from the appellants and is abuse of process of
law. 5. It has become a general tendency to implicate all the
members of husband's family in false cases whenever there is a
matrimonial dispute between the parties and Hon'ble Apex Court
have termed it as "legal terrorism". It is also argued that the
summoning order passed by Ld. MM is bad in law as there is no
offence of domestic violence being committed by the appellants
as they used to reside separately from the complainant and the
delay of filing the complaint is not explained. Appellant no. 3
was married prior to marriage of respondent and was residing in
her matrimonial house since 2004 and she would have not done
any domestic violence with respondent and no specific date is
alleged by complainant in this regard and allegations are general,
false and afterthought to create pressure on other appellants and
their family members. Ld. Counsel for the appellants has filed
written arguments and also relied upon following judgments: 6. Ld. Counsel for the respondent has argued that
application u/s 5 of Limitation Act should not be allowed and
strongly opposed the same as the present application is also
defective like the previous one and stated that the present appeal
was filed after the delay of 126 days and no sufficient cause of
delay has been explained and all the contents of the application CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 4 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 7. It is further submitted by Ld. Counsel for the
complainant/ respondent that the order of Ld. Trial Court is just,
proper and judicious one and it was passed after considering all
the materials including the DIR filed before the Court. The
appellants and their family members including the husband of
complainant had harassed her in her matrimonial home and
committed various acts of domestic violence. The complainant
was a house wife and she was residing with her husband and the
appellants and all the arguments tendered by the appellants are
not the part of pleadings in the appeal or before the Ld. Trial
Court and there was a domestic relationship between the
appellants and the respondents. Further, there is no limitation
prescribed for filing the complaint u/s 12 of the DV Act. The
complainant was residing at C-501, Apex Green Valley Society,
Sector 9, Vaishali, Ghaziabad, UP and her husband had taken
loan of Rs. 77 lacs from M/s. Aditya Birla Finance Ltd., and after
paying some installments, he defaulted later on willfully so that
the said financial institution shall take the possession of said
house from the complainant and on 25.06.2022, Ld. MM passed CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 5 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: The appellants filed various revisions/appeals after
the passage of impugned order, but the Court is of the opinion
that the issues raised by the appellants have to be heard on merits
and it is settled law that the Court has to take pragmatic approach CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 7 of 14 Digitally signed KUMAR by KUMAR
 RAJAT
 RAJAT 17:41:26
 Date: 2024.11.12
 +0530
 while deciding the application u/s 5 of Limitation Act. There is
not much inordinate delay in filing the appeal, which is 126 days.
Considering the repeated faulty applications and the judgments
cited by the appellants, the application for condonation of delay
is allowed and delay of 126 days is condoned in filing the present
appeal, subject to cost of Rs. 5,000/- to be paid to the
complainant. 11. The appellants are the brother-in-law and sister-in-
law (brother's wife of husband) and sister-in-law (Nand) of the
respondent. The marriage between the complainant and her
husband Satish Garg was solemnized on 22.04.2008 at
Ghaziabad, UP and complainant came to her matrimonial home
at R4-B, Dishad Garden, Delhi. As per Section 2(f) of DV Act: "Domestic relationship" 12. The domestic violence is defined in Section 3 of the
DV Act and includes physical abuse, sexual abuse, verbal and
emotional abuse. 13. As per Section 2(f) , if at any point of time, two
persons have lived together in shared house-hold and related
through relationship in marriage or are family members living
together as a joint family are set to be in domestic relationship
and shared house-hold is defined in Section 2(s) that "Shared
household", means a household where the person aggrieved lives or at any
stage has lived in a domestic relationship either singly or along with the
respondent and includes such a household whether owned or tenanted either CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 8 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 14. As per averment in the appeal, there was no
domestic relationship between complainant and appellants. Nand
of the complainant namely Kavita Goyal was married in 2004
and has never lived in her parental home after marriage. 15. As per the Domestic Incident Report, the parents of
the complainant had spent huge amount of money in the marriage
as per their capacity including gold jewellery, house-hold articles,
cash etc. and after 4-5 days of marriage, mother-in-law Lalita
Garg asked complainant to hand over all gold/silver jewellery,
cash, gifts to her and she handed over her stridhan to her and
complainant lived with the appellants except appellant Kavita
Goyal (Nand) in a joint family after the marriage and they used
to taunt her for bringing insufficient dowry from her parental
house and the complainant was not allowed by the appellants
except appellant no. 3 Kavita Goyal (Nand) to call her parents
and did not provide proper diet and medical care during her
pregnancy and did not allow her to go to her parental house
easily on the occasion of festivals and after birth of female child,
the complainant wanted to arrange family functions, but
appellants except appellant Kavita Goyal (Nand) were not
willing and they told the complainant that "Ladki ka function
koun karta hai", but somehow complainant arranged the function
and Lalita Garg taunted her on the point that her parents/family CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 9 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 16. As per DIR, there are lot of allegations of
misbehavior by the appellants and the cruelty by way of
neglecting herself and treat her like a maid and whenever her
brother used to visit her matrimonial house, appellants taunted
her brother by finding fault in the complainant and on
14.10.2010, parents-in-law along with her husband shifted to
C-501, Apex Green Valley, Vaishali Sector 9, Ghaziabad with
complainant and minor children and male child was born on
02.10.2011 and on the occasion of Chuchak, the appellants
pressurized the parents of complainant to gift sweets, jewellery,
gifts, cash etc. to whole family and Lalita Garg had shouted at the
husband of complainant whenever he gifted something to the CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 10 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: complainant and Naresh Kumar Garg used to instigate her
husband against the complainant. The complainant was also
harassed with regard to the movable and immovable properties.
The parents-in-law always tried to keep complainant away from
her husband and her husband was having relationship with some
other woman and her stridhan was also kept by the parents-in-
law. The parents-in-law and her husband had not paid any money
for day to day expenses to the complainant and her minor
children and she lodged complaint against them. 17. Ld. Trial Court had passed an order and specifically
mentioned that there are allegations against the appellants that
they had demanded the dowry from the complainant and taunted
her for not bringing enough dowry and there are specific
allegations against appellants in the petition before the Ld. Trial
Court for taunting the complainant and she was also taunted for
giving birth to a female child and gold tagdi of complainant
gifted by the appellants was taken from her by them. Appellant
no. 3 Kavita Goyal had poured hot oil at the hand of
complainant, but there is no specific date mentioned in the DIR
nor there is any MLC to this effect has been mentioned in the
DIR and she was residing separately at Tri Nagar, Delhi with her
husband since 2004, who was also arraigned as respondent, but
not summoned by the Ld. Trial Court and allegations of taunting
against her was alleged made through telephone are general in
nature and it cannot be said that appellant no. 3 Kavita Goyal was
in domestic relationship with the respondent and as such her
summoning by the Ld. Trial Court is bad in law and without any
material and domestic relationship between her and complainant. Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: 18. As regards the limitation argued by the Ld. Counsel
for the appellants that the DV petition was filed with delay and
summoning was done with great delay, it was held by Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Kamatchi Vs. Laxmi Narayanan AIR 2022 SC
2932 that the provisions of DV Act contemplate filing of an
application u/s 12 to initiate the proceedings before the
concerned Magistrate. After hearing both sides and after taking
into account, the material on record, the Magistrate may pass an
appropriate order u/s 12 of the DV Act. It is only the breach of
such order which constitutes an offence as is clear from Section
31 of the Act. Thus, if there be any offence committed in terms of
the provisions of the Act, the limitation prescribed u/s 468 of
Cr.P.C. will apply from the date of commission of offence. By the
time an application is preferred u/s 12 DV Act, there is no
offence committed in terms of the provisions of the Act and as
such there would never be a starting point for limitation from the
date of application u/s 12 DV Act and it will arise only when
there is breach of any order passed u/s 12 of the Act. The
judgments cited by Ld. Counsel for the appellants are not
applicable to the facts of the present case qua appellant no. 1 & 2. 19. From the perusal of the DIR as well as complaint of
the complainant there are allegations of humiliation, taunting,
keeping of stridhan of complainant, causing cruelty and
harassment levelled against the appellants by the complainant,
but in the absence of any domestic relationship of the
complainant with appellant no. 3 Kavita Goyal, there was no
requirement to summon her in the DV proceedings as having CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 12 of 14 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: 20. Considering the DIR as well as the complaint u/s 12 of the DV Act, wherein specific allegations have been made CA. No. 119/2023 HARI KISHAN GARG & OTHERS VS. SHIKHA GARG & ANR Page 13 of 14 Digitally signed KUMAR by KUMAR
 RAJAT
 RAJAT 17:42:02
 Date: 2024.11.12
 +0530
 against the appellant no. 1 and 2 Hari Kishan Garg and Jyoti by
the respondent/complainant, the order of Ld. Trial Court does not
appear to be without any application of mind and it was passed
after considering the said material and the specific allegations
against the appellants and they were summoned accordingly and
as such the said order dated 20.02.2023 does not suffer from any
material illegality and as such does not need any interference
from this Court. 21. As regards appellant no. 3 Kavita Goyal, the said
order dated 20.02.2023 is set aside and she is discharged from the
proceedings of DV Act before the Ld. Trial Court. 22. Hence, the appeal is partly allowed and is
accordingly disposed of. 23. Nothing mentioned herein shall tantamount to any
expression on the merits of the case. Copy of judgment be sent to Ld. Trial Court with
TCR and be uploaded on the website. The appeal file be consigned to Record Room after Digitally signed necessary compliance. KUMAR RAJAT by KUMAR RAJAT Date: