The petitioner, a practising Advocate, sought for a writ of Mandamus,
by directing the respondents 1 to 3 to rectify the 'Credit Information Bureau
(India) Limited' Score ratings and suspend the Certificates of Registration
issued to foreign companies and to grant Certificate of Registration to
Indian Companies for collection and maintenance of individual credit and
personal data to protect the personal liberty and privacy of the citizens of
this country. 2. The first respondent is the Secretary to the Reserve Bank of India,
while the second respondent is the Regional Director, Reserve Bank of India,
Chennai. The third respondent is the Joint Secretary, Department of Economic
Affairs, New Delhi. The fourth respondent is the Managing Director of Credit
Information Bureau (India) Limited, Nariman Point, Mumbai. The fifth
respondent is the Managing Director of Equifax Credit Information Services
Private Limited, Mumbai. The sixth respondent is the Managing Director of
CRIF HIGH MARK Credit Information Services Private Limited, Mumbai. The 
seventh respondent is the Managing Director of Experian Credit Information
Company of India, Mumbai. 3. Neither the Reserve Bank of India nor the Union of India, as it is,
have been chosen to be impleaded as party respondents to this writ petition.
Instead, the officers of the Reserve Bank of India and the Union of India are
impleaded. 4. No provision of law of the Credit Information Companies (Regulation)
Act, 2005 , was challenged in this writ petition. 5. The petitioner would go about setting forth that the banks and other
financial institutions are collecting vital information of their customers,
which included the Permanent Account Number, Driving Licence Number, e-mail 
address, Employment information, Aadhaar Card details and the type of loan
transaction availed, etc. The information so collected is transmitted to the
Credit Information Companies and those Credit Information Companies, in turn,
are assigning rating to the transactions without affording any opportunity to
the customers concerned. It is further asserted that in spite of good and
bona fide conduct of the customers/borrowers of banks/financial institutions,
the ratings are assigned by these companies in a mechanical fashion and in
that process, the customers would suffer grave hardship in availing any
further financial assistance. It is stated that four Credit Information
Agencies are approved by the Reserve Bank of India and the entire writ
petition is directed against such companies. But, unfortunately, instead of
the company, per se, the Managing Director of the Company alone is impleaded. 6. The petitioner would urge that if the banks and financial
institutions were to make available financial assistance to their customers
only based upon the credit rating assigned by one company or the other, then,
he would wonder the necessity of the respective banks and the financial
institutions, seeking collateral security to be provided to the financial
assistance so availed by way of mortgage and also the need to obtain personal
guarantees. 7. Since the information maintained and furnished by the Credit
Information Companies is uni-directional, in the sense that they are non-
responsive to the request of any corrections by the concerned customers, the
petitioner would urge that their actions are all in violation of the
fundamental principle of natural justice, namely, audi alteram partem. The
Credit Information Companies have no concern for a genuine dispute existing
between the customers and the bank/financial institution concerned. Against
any of the lending institutions, if a customer/borrower initiates any legal
proceedings for redressal of such grievance, the customer is misbranded as a
defaulter. 8. The petitioner has taken the illustration of an individual,
Sri.S.Prashanthan, who is a software professional at Chennai, who it is
claimed, has never availed any Credit Card facility furnished by ICICI Bank.
But, still, the said bank demanded Rs.18,000/- (Rupees Eighteen Thousand 
only) from the said individual and for want of clearing the said outstanding
liability, the name of the individual has been maintained in the list of
defaulters by the Credit Information Companies, as a consequence of which,
when the said individual applied for sanction of International Credit Card
with HDFC Bank, the said Bank has flatly rejected his application for grant
of International Credit Card. Thus, to get over the problems consistently
created by the defaulters' list maintained by the Credit Information
Companies, the said individual cleared the dues of Rs.18,000/- (Rupees
Eighteen Thousand only) by paying it up to the ICICI Bank. 9. The petitioner has taken another illustration of one Rajkumar
Thakur, who has instituted certain proceedings in the Consumer Redressal
Forum, Raipur, Chattishgarh, as the bank has included his name in the list of
defaulters, even after the payment of full lumpsum amount of Rs.66,100/-
(Rupees Sixty Six Thousand and One Hundred only) to the loan account. 
Consequently, the Consumer Redressal Forum ordered for payment of 
compensation to the individual while directing necessary action to be taken
up for removing the complainant's name from the list of defaulters. 10. The petitioner would cite instance of one other individual, a
resident of Chennai, who availed Credit Card from the State Bank of India and
in spite of settling the dues to the bank, his name is still maintained by
the Credit Information Companies in the list of defaulters. As a consequence,
when the individual applied for sanction of a housing loan, the same was
rejected. Based on these stray instances, facts relating to which are
difficult to be verified effectively, without there being any sustainable
legal basis, the petitioner proceeds to assert that around 80% of CIBIL score
defaulters are, thus, related to Credit Card payments. 11. It is asserted by the petitioner that the banks would treat the
Credit Card dues as unsecured loans and would consequently, charge interest
at the rate of 48% annually, which is usurious and therefore, urges that the
Credit Card defaulters should not be included in the list of defaulters
maintained by the Credit Information Companies. 12. The petitioner proceeds to assert - that too without any reasonable
basis - if the credit history of Indian citizens who have availed any
financial assistance is made available to the Non-Governmental Companies or
subsidiary companies of foreign Principals, there is any amount of security
danger involved. The petitioner wonders as to why, when there is a huge pool
of homegrown software professionals, the Central Government and the Reserve 
Bank of India is not utilising their talent. The writ petitioner would also
apprehend that one day or the other, the foreign companies may use or sell
away by way of leakage or by way of deceit, this data bank to foreign banks
and other financial institutions, who intend to do business in India and
hence, deduces that right to life and privacy of the citizens of this
country, is put to peril, thus, violating Article 21 of the Constitution of
India. 13. It is urged by the petitioner that these 'Credit Information
Companies' collect huge money from the borrowers for providing any
information, whereas a 'member' of the Credit Information Companies needs to
pay only a nominal amount. Ultimately, the writ petitioner would postulate
that the 'increased number of non-performing assets of banks/financial
institutions' is the result of the Credit Rating activity of these companies.
He, therefore, urges that the lacuna found, without specifying what they are,
in the provisions of Credit Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005 ,
requires to be attended to by this Court. 14. This so-called 'public interest litigation' is bereft of any merit. 15. The Parliament, with a view to provide for regulation of Credit
Information Companies and to facilitate efficient distribution of credit and
for matters connected therewith, enacted the Credit Information Companies
(Regulation) Act, 2005 [for short called 'the Act', henceforth]. 16. Section 2 of this Act contained the definition of various
expressions found used in the Act. It is important to notice the definition
assigned for the following expressions, namely, borrower, client, credit
information, credit information company and credit institution, in the
following words: ?2(e).'credit information company' means a company formed and 
registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and which has been
granted a certificate of registration under sub-section (2) of Section 5 ;? ?2(f).'credit institution' means a banking company and includes- (i) a corresponding new bank, the State Bank of India, a subsidiary
bank, a co-operative bank, the National Bank and regional rural bank; (ii) a non-banking financial company as defined under clause (f) of Section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India Act, (2 of 1934); (iii) a public financial institution referred to in Section 4-A of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (iv) the financial corporation established by a State under Section 3 of the State Financial Corporation Act, 1951 (63 of 1951); (v) the housing finance institution referred to in clause (d) of Section 2 of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987); (vi) the companies engaged in the business of credit cards and other
similar cards and companies dealing with distribution of credit in any other
manner; (vii) any other institution which the Reserve Bank may specify, from
time to time, for the purposes of this clause;? 17. Section 3 of this Act declared that no company shall commence or
carry on the business of credit information without obtaining a certificate
of registration from the Reserve Bank in accordance with this Act. 18. Section 4 deals with making of an application for registration
while Section 5 deals with the aspects relating to the grant of registration. Section 5 reads as under: 19. The Reserve Bank of India for the purpose of considering the
application of a company for a grant of certificate of registration to
commence or carry on the business of credit information, should be satisfied
upon an inspection of the records or books of such companies, carried out by
it and upon its finding that the factors specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 5 , are satisfied and then alone, shall
grant necessary certificate. 20. Section 6 of the Act empowers the Reserve Bank of India to cancel
any such certificate of registration granted earlier, if the stipulations
contained in Section 6 , warrant such action. 21. Section 8 of the Act specified the requirements of authorised
minimum capital of every Credit Information Company, to be Rs.30 Crores and
the issued capital shall not be less than Rs.20 Crores and further the
minimum subscribed capital of every Credit Information Company, shall not be
less than 75% of the issued capital. 22. Under Section 10 of this Act, power is conferred upon the Reserve
Bank of India to determine the policy in relation to functioning of Credit
Information Companies, if that is considered necessary and expedient to do so
in public interest or in the interest of specified users. Thus, the policy
guidelines of the Credit Information Companies and the related frame work, is
left in the hands of the Reserve Bank of India. 23. Section 11 of this Act also conferred power on Reserve Bank of
India to give directions to the Credit Information Companies from time to
time and such Credit Information Companies shall be bound to comply with any
such directions. 24. Section 12 of this Act conferred power upon the Reserve Bank of
India to cause an inspection of any Credit Information Company and their
books and accounts. The power to examine any person on oath during the 
course of such inspection, was also conferred. 25. Section 14 of this Act acquires a lot of importance for the present
enquiry and hence, it is extracted hereinbelow: 26. Section 14 of this Act, thus, listed out the functions of a Credit
Information Company, one of the important functions permitted to be performed
under Section 14 of this Act is to collect, process and collate information
on trade, credit and financial standing of the borrowers of the credit
institution which is a member of the Credit Information Company. 27. Therefore, the grievance nurtured by the writ petitioner, even if
it carried any merit and quality worth paying greater attention, cannot give
rise to the grant of relief prayed for in this writ petition. When once the
Parliament, as a legislative policy, has conferred the power on the Credit
Information Companies, to collect, process and collate the information of the
borrowers of any credit institutions, the same cannot be objected to by the
petitioner, without squarely challenging the validity of Section 14 of the
Act. Going by the definition assigned to the expression 'credit institution',
in Section 2(f) of the Act, all Banking Companies and Public Financial
Institutions, amongst others, answer the said expression and from such
institutions, the 'Credit Information Companies' are authorised to collect
and also collate information. 28. Under Section 15 of this Act, 'every credit institution' existing
as on the date of coming into force of this Act, was required, before expiry
of three months time, from such commencement or within such extended period 
as the Reserve Bank of India may allow, to become a member of at least one
'Credit Information Company' or the other and no Credit Information Company
shall refuse to register a credit institution as its member, without
providing a reasonable opportunity of being heard to such credit institution.
Thus, a statutory obligation is thrust upon every 'credit institution' to
compulsorily become member of one 'Credit Information Company' or the other.
When once it becomes a member, the 'credit institution' is bound to pass on
all the relevant information about all those who have availed financial
assistance from it, to the 'Credit Information Company' to enable the latter
to collate such information. Thus, without regard being had to this statutory
regime and in a mechanical manner, the petitioner has gone about settling the
pleadings. 29. Under Section 17 of this Act, every credit institution is obliged
to furnish information to the Credit Information Company. Thus, an obligation
is cast upon every credit institution to make available the credit
information of its customers to the Credit Information Company, of which, it
is a member. In the absence of any challenge to these provisions, the banks
and financial institutions, which answer the description of credit
institutions, cannot refuse to make available such information to the Credit
Information Companies. 30. Under Section 19 of this Act, every Credit Information Company or
credit institution, who is in possession or control of credit information,
shall take such steps including security safeguards to ensure that the data
relating to the credit information maintained by them is accurate, complete,
duly protected against any loss or unauthorised access or use or unauthorised
disclosure thereof. Again, ignoring this safety feature encrypted in the Act,
the petitioner goes about airing apprehensions about possible misuse of the
information by way of leakage and the possible ill-effects of such
unauthorised disclosure. 31. Section 20 of this Act required every credit information company,
credit institution and the specified user, to adopt the privacy principles
adumbrated therein in relation to collection, processing, collating,
recording, preservation, secrecy, sharing and usage of credit information.
Amongst others, the purpose for which the credit information may be used,
restriction on such use and disclosure thereof, is also provided for. 32. One of the grievances nurtured by the petitioner is that the Credit
Information Companies act in uni-direction and that they are non-responsive
to the pleas for updating the information. Such a contention is developed
without regard being had to the provision contained in Section 21 of the Act.
Sub-section (1) of Section 21 of this Act enables any person, who applies for
grant or sanction of credit facility from any credit institution, may request
such institution to furnish him a copy of the credit information obtained by
such credit institution from the Credit Information Company. Such information
is liable to be made available subject to payment of such charges as may be
specified by the regulations framed by the Reserve Bank of India in that
regard. In case, it is found that the credit information has not been
updated, as per sub-section (3) of Section 21 of the Act, a borrower or a
client of a credit institution may request to update the information by
making an appropriate correction or addition, or otherwise and on such a
request, the Credit Information Company shall take appropriate steps to
update the credit information within thirty days after being requested to do
so. The procedure to be followed for updating the information is also
provided under the two provisos thereunder. 33. Insofar as the plea relating to possible unauthorised access to the
credit information is concerned, Section 22 of the Act makes it very clear
that no person shall have access to credit information in the possession or
control of a Credit Information Company unless the access is authorised by
the Act or any other law for the time being in force or directed to do so by
any Court or Tribunal. 34. Further, Section 23 of this Act has recognised that any wilful act
of Credit Information Company or engaging in any practice, in breach of any
of the principles referred to Section 20 , shall be punishable with fine not
exceeding one crore rupees. This apart, sub-section (3) of Section 23 of this
Act has gone to the extent of recognising that the action of any Credit
Information Company in wilfully providing credit information which is false
in any material particular, knowing it to be so, or wilfully omitted to make
a material statement, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one
crore rupees. 35. Under Section 27 of this Act, power is conferred on the Reserve
Bank of India to specify, by regulations, a maximum amount of fees leviable
under sub-section (3) of Section 14 for providing information to the
specified users and also for admissions of credit institutions. Thus, the Act
when read as a whole, clearly brings out the essence of not only collecting
the credit information, but preserving and protecting such information from
any unauthorised access or usage. 36. Thus, the apprehensions entertained by the writ petitioner are all
ill-founded. 37. The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , has been made amongst other 
objectives for securing monetary stability in our country and for operating
the credit system to its advantage. Under Section 3 of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934, the Reserve Bank of India has been constituted and several
important functions and responsibilities have been entrusted to the Reserve
Bank of India, so constituted. The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , has been
amended by the Reserve Bank of India (Amendment) Act, 1962 [No.35 of 1962], 
inserting Chapter III-A therein, which dealt with collection and furnishing
of credit information. The object behind it is spelt clearly by setting forth
that in the absence of any regular and systematic arrangement for the
collection, pooling and supply of particulars relating to the loans and
advances or other credit facilities granted by the various banks and
financial institutions to those borrowing any amounts from them, individual
banks or other financial institutions are handicapped in obtaining reliable
information about the creditworthiness or financial position of the various
persons to whom credit has been or may have to be granted. By virtue of the
provisions contained under Chapter III-A of this Act, it is the duty of the
Reserve Bank of India to collect credit information from banking companies
and then, furnish such information to any banking company in accordance with
the procedure contained under Section 45D of the Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934. 38. Secondly, in Section 45E of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934,
disclosure of information has also been prohibited. It is, therefore, more
than clear that the writ petitioner has not noticed the legal regime with
regard to the collection, preservation and usage of credit information
prevailing in the country for the past over 50 years, but instead, rashly
proceeded to institute this writ petition. 39. Even prior to ushering in the Credit Information Companies
(Regulation) Act, 2005 , the Reserve Bank of India through its circular dated
17.06.2004, urged all Scheduled Commercial Banks (excluding Regional Rural 
Banks) and Notified All-India Financial Institutions and State Financial
Corporations, to obtain consent of all their borrowers (and not only
defaulters) for pooling of data for development of a comprehensive credit
information system. It is considered by the Reserve Bank of India that the
development of an efficient credit information system is critical for the
development of a sound financial system and the wisdom behind it cannot be
impeached easily. 40. This matter, beyond any pale of doubt in our mind, is a frivolous
litigation. No effort has been made to discredit a fiscal statute, which made
provision for a fool-proof credit information system to be put in place. If
the economic development of the nation is the aim and objective of the
Government, then, it is bound to put in place various economic mechanisms and
also regulatory measures concerning them. Securing economic stability is a
most vital factor for the sustenance of various organs of the country as it
is. While seeking to achieve the constitutional goals, as promised to the
citizens of this country, the State is under enormous obligation to stabilise
its economy first and for achieving that objective, it was required to
undertake various regulatory measures. Sans the economic stability, the
constitutional goals remain potentially unachieved fully. 41. It is a pity that the petitioner, notwithstanding being a
practitioner of law, has not bestowed his attention as to how the
legislations are framed and what kind of serious studies precede such
legislations. The subject matter of every legislation is bound to be studied
by the experts and/or expert bodies, who come up with relevant suggestions,
recommendations and steps to stabilise the economy, which again are studied 
carefully. Consequent to increased trade and commercial activities across the
frontiers of various nations, every country is bound to make an endeavour to
preserve, protect and regulate it's economic activities in such a manner
which suits its own needs and caters to special requirements peculiar to it.
The credit information system plays a vital role in making an appropriate
assessment about the creditworthiness of the individuals or
customers/borrowers concerned. More importantly, it plays a vital role in
risk assessment. What is to be taken note of from the collated information in
that process is a value input by the decision maker before he extends credit
facilities. Once the credit facilities are availed, they are required to be
recycled promptly and also leave the extender of such facilities, a
reasonable margin to provide for his enterprise. A sticky account or
abnormally delayed repayment is capable of eating into the very vitals of
every credit institution. It is, therefore, very vital for efficient
functioning of the credit institution itself that there should be
'creditworthy information' relating to the customers or the prospective
borrower available at some place, so that, the same can be consulted/verified
before any decision is taken on the request of the customer/borrower before
extending the credit facility. The risk analysis is a perfect professional
activity carried on meticulously by every credit institution. A Regulatory
enactment, which has got significant 'input and value addition', is sought to
be discredited by the writ petitioner in a very light-hearted manner. Such
attempts are wholly unwarranted and deserve to be dealt with a firm hand. 42. Every piece of legislation shall be assumed to have been validly
made and is liable to be construed to have been made for achieving the
objectives spelt out by it. And such objectives behind every piece of
legislation are essentially grounded in public interest. The constitutional
Courts, advisedly, proceed very cautiously before adversely commenting upon
the provisions contained in any legislation. It is a settled principle that a
legislation can be attacked only on limited grounds which include the
legislative competence or violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed to
the citizens or for violation of any other constitutional provision and
without demonstrating any such grounds, no parliamentary legislation can be
prevented from being given effect to or acted upon. The present writ petition
does not attempt to recognise the well-laid out limitations which the
constitutional Courts steadfastly adhere to, when it sought for a relief
which, in effect, calls in question the legitimacy of actions authorised by
the Parliamentary legislation. 43. It is a pity that the writ petitioner appears to have rendered
assistance in some case or the other, on behalf of some clients and the
information gathered in that process, is sought to be made the basis upon
which the foundations for this writ petition are laid. This is one reason why
the lawyers are not supposed to turn themselves to litigants. Every piece of
information is required to be vetted, verified, analysed and then
appropriately used by the professionals. The writ petitioner has grossly
failed to do any of them. 44. For the aforementioned reasons, we dismiss this writ petition and
impose token costs of Rs.1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand only) payable to the 
Mediation and Conciliation Centre attached to this Bench, within a period of
fifteen days from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. Consequently,
the connected writ miscellaneous petition is also dismissed. To 1.The Secretary,
 Reserve Bank of India,
 Central Office Building,
 18th Floor, Shahid Bhagar Singh Marg,
 Mumbai ? 400 001. 2.The Regional Director,
 Reserve Bank of India,
 Fort Glacis, No.16, Rajaji Salai,
 Chennai ? 600 001. 3.The Joint Secretary,
 Department of Economic Affairs,
 Ministry of Finance, Room No.39-B,
 134/North Block, New Delhi ? 110 001..