The minor girl, being a foreign national, established

 some sort of acquaintance with a young boy of this country who

 turned out to be an accused in a case under the POCSO Act . At

 the outset, perusals of records reveal the manner in which the

 case was treated by the police authority. The lethargic or

 lackadaisical approach from the very beginning to register the

 FIR, conducting investigation and finally submission of charge-

 sheet, prima facie suggest that the role of the police authority in

 the instant matter tarnished the image of our country where
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.2482 of 2024(6) dt.17-02-2025 2/7 protection of justice, social, political and economic was granted

 in the preamble of the Constitution. 2. While hearing the instant writ petition, a question

 came up in the mind of the Court as to whether a criminal writ

 petition is maintainable challenging a judicial order passed by

 the learned Special Judge, POCSO, rejecting the de facto

 complainant's application to accept Facebook messages sent by

 the accused either to the victim or her parents under Section

 65B of the Indian Evidence Act. 3. It would not be out of place to mention as a

 background of the case that the victim was aged about 13 years,

 being born in Mussoorie, India, on 28 th June 2003 at the time of

 commission of offence. Initially, in the year 2018, the mother of

 the victim noticed that she was stalked and sexually abused by

 the accused. She tried to lodge a complaint in the jurisdictional

 Mahilla P.S., but her complaint was not accepted. Subsequently,

 on 12.09.2019, the police attached to Darbhanga Town P.S.

 registered P.S. Case No. 219 of 2019 against the accused under Section 354A / 354D / 504 and 506 of the IPC. No penal provision

 of the POCSO Act was added. Even during the investigation, the

 investigating officer did not want to record the victim's

 statement under Section 164 of the CrPC. The mother of the
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.2482 of 2024(6) dt.17-02-2025 3/7 victim approached this Court in Cr. WJC 343 of 2020, which

 was disposed of on 23rd June 2020, directing the Judicial

 Magistrate 1st Class at Darbhanga to record the statement of the

 victim under Section 164 of the CrPC by video conferencing. 4. After submission of the charge sheet, a protest

 petition has been filed on behalf of the de facto complainant,

 stating, inter alia, that the accused himself confessed in his

 Facebook messages that he had indulged in sexual intercourse

 with the prosecutrix while she was residing in Darbhanga, and

 relevant documents were given to the I.O. The informant of the

 case visited the concerned P.S. time and again and approached

 the police officer to consider the electronic messages and

 communications sent by the accused either to the victim or to

 her parents, but the police submitted the charge sheet in a very

 casual manner without collecting substantial evidence which

 could corroborate the statement of the prosecutrix and the

 informant. Therefore, the applicant/protester apprehended that

 she would not get proper justice from the court in India. 5. The woe of the victim and her family members did

 not end here. Even after filing of the charge-sheet, the learned

 Chief Judicial Magistrate, Darbhanga did not take cognizance of

 the offence on the basis of the charge-sheet. This prompted the
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.2482 of 2024(6) dt.17-02-2025 4/7 writ petitioner to file the second writ petition, i.e., Cr. WJC 1445

 of 2022 before this Court. A co-ordinate bench of this Court

 vide order dated 22nd December 2022, directed the learned Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, Darbhanga to submit a report showing as to

 why despite submission of charge-sheet on 07th February 2021,

 order of cognizance was not passed. In the said writ petition, a

 counter-affidavit was filed on behalf of the Superintendent of

 Police, Darbhanga, and the SHO of Town P.S., Darbhanga,

 stating, inter alia, that the investigating officer was directed to

 take the following steps for proper investigation of the case: 6. The investigating officer did not care to take such a

 step during the investigation. Amongst the directions quoted
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.2482 of 2024(6) dt.17-02-2025 5/7 above, at the risk of repetition above, let me state that the

 investigating officer was directed to recover the mobile of the

 accused and the C.D.R. of the SIM filled in it and the details of

 the message made from the mobile and keep the same in the

 case diary. If the said step was taken by the investigating officer,

 he could issue notice to the victim and her parents to produce

 the SIM card, mobile, and other computer devices, etc.; take the

 data from the said devices in the computer hard disk, C.D., or

 pen drive; and get it examined scientifically and obtain a

 certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act. When

 the investigating officer, in spite of such directions, failed to do

 so, the father of the victim filed an application along with a

 certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act,

 placing the Facebook, WhatsApp, and text messages sent by the

 accused from his mobile phone either to the mobile phone or

 laptop of the parents of the victim as well as the victim. The

 learned Special Judge was not agreeable to accept the said

 documents along with the certificate as secondary evidence on

 the ground that the original device has not been placed before

 the court. 7. The applicant was compelled to obtain the

 certificate under Section 65B from the Cyber Evidence Archival
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.2482 of 2024(6) dt.17-02-2025 6/7 Center in respect of the said messages obtained from original

 devices and filed the copies of the messages along with the

 certificate in the trial court. 8. Be that as it may. This Court is of the view that the

 messages sent by the accused through computer devices like

 mobile phones, laptops, etc., are important documents in order

 to come to a logical conclusion of the case; therefore, this Court

 is inclined to pass an order in the instant writ petition in order to

 protect the life and liberty of a minor girl and also to protect the

 impartiality of the Indian judicial system, though this Court is

 not unmindful to note that generally a writ petition does not lie

 against an order passed by a court of law on the judicial side.

 This Court has also inherent power under Section 482 of the

 CrPC to pass any order to protect abuse of the process of the

 court. In the instant case, the impugned orders are glaring

 instances of abuse of the process of the Court. For adjudication

 of a charge of sexual abuse upon a minor girl, the Court must be

 proactive and inquisitive in nature to find out the real culprit.

 The process is more of a quest for a truth than a mechanical

 abduction. 9. For the reasons stated above, the learned Special

 Judge, POCSO Act, Darbhanga, is directed to allow the
 Patna High Court CR. WJC No.2482 of 2024(6) dt.17-02-2025 7/7 applicant to produce the computer devices before the court after

 fixing a specific date and informing the same to the petitioner

 well in advance. The trial court shall arrange for an expert with

 the help of the SHO, Darbhanga P.S., who will obtain the copy

 of the messages in court and send the same for a scientific

 report. The report must come within one month from the date of

 departure of the messages and follow the procedure under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act. The learned trial judge

 is at liberty to make those messages exhibits. (Bibek Chaudhuri, J)
Suraj Dubey/-