SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: This needs your attention!
DATE: 2018-08-31
SCORE: 101
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/9bul03/this_needs_your_attention/

--- POST TEXT ---

There's something going on in our country and I'm appalled that it's not getting enough coverage. You all must have heard about #sscscam back in february-march and it received a lot of attention on twitter and from political parties and after the promise of cbi enquiry on the matter the whole thing just faded away.

For those who don't know, SSC-CGL is a competitive exam conducted in India for government jobs. It is an exam that is only second to UPSC as it selects Grade B and Grade C officers. About 40 lakh people register for this exam for some 8000 seats. There's another exam called SSC-CHSL which is conducted for the selection of Grade D (clerks), about 60-70 lakh people register for this exam for some 6000 vacancies. The sheer number of applicants might give you an idea how competitive this exam is. SSC CHSL is also the biggest exam conducted in ASIA when it comes to the sheer number of people applying for it.

Now coming back to the main topic of SSC SCAM, after CBI enquiry, supreme court has decided to put a stay on both CGL and CHSL results and it's being predicted that they might just cancel the whole exam because it's entirely possible that there was a leakage of question papers beforehand. These exams were conducted online and every candidate has time logs registered with their accounts which should be enough to analyse who solved and who cheated (cheaters would've taken barely minutes to solve the entire paper). But no the supreme court is notorious for not understanding technology and creative solutions to problems, instead it's very much possible that they might just cancel the whole exam.

But how will this cancellation play out?

Here's a timeline of SSC CGL 2017:-

15th May 2017: Notification for exam out.

16th June 2017: Last date of registration.

5th August 2017 to 25th August 2017: Tier 1 exam conducted in many shifts across the whole country.

October 2017: Results of tier 1 declared, those who qualified will appear for tier 2.

21st November 2017: Tier 2 exam date DELAYED, new date given.

21st December 2017: Tier 2 exam date DELAYED, new date given.

17th February 2018-21st February 2018: Tier 2 exam finally conducted.

22 February 2018: Screenshots of question papers goes out in social media suggesting that remote access softwares might've been used for cheating.

23 February 2018: SSC cancels the exam conducted on 21st february due to "tehnical issues" and reschedules it on 9th March.

27th February to 6th March: Massive #SSCSCAM protests outside ssc headquarters at cgo complex Delhi, the matter gets news coverage, swaraj party, anna hazare, NDTV further righteously so escalates this matter. Students demand a cbi enquiry and ssc obliges as they are confident there has been no leakage. Prashant Bhushan takes up the case of students.

May 2018: Results of tier 2 declared, those who qualified will appear for tier 3.

July 9 2018: Tier 3 of the exam is conducted. This is the last phase of exam before document verification and skill tests which includes typing, excel etc.

August 31 2018: Supreme Court issues a stay order on both SSC CGL 2017 and SSC CHSL 2017. 

Now the main problem is that if this exam gets cancelled for everyone then us the genuine students who toiled day and night and prepared for more than 15 months would suffer. Perhaps for some of the aspirants this could've been their final attempt due to age limit. Furthermore even without the stay it would've taken 3-4 months more before ssc would've published the results but now it has just gotten out of hand, nobody can predict what's in store. I would also like to mention that even after the results are declared, it takes almost an year before the zone allotment and joining letter comes. This whole charade of fair examinations is ridiculous, this whole painful process of waiting is ridiculous, this whole inefficiency on the part of SSC is ridiculous, the way the court has handled this issue without paying any heed to mental harassment of genuine candidates is ridiculous, the lack of knowledge about this matter on public sphere is RIDICULOUS!