MANMOHAN, J

I.A.No.12583/2016 1. Present application has been filed by the defendant under Section 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter referred to as
' CPC ') seeking stay of the present suit. The application is premised on
the fact that the defendant herein has filed a prior suit before the
Bombay High Court being Suit No.370/2015 and the issues in the said
suit as well as the present suit are directly or substantially the same
and can be dealt with in the Bombay suit in its entirety. 2. Mr. Ashim Sood, learned counsel for defendant stated that in the
Bombay suit, the defendant has sought reimbursement of payments
made by it to the plaintiff during the period August, 2011 to June,
2013 (hereinafter referred to as 'period') under an ongoing and running
commercial arrangement whereby the plaintiff would transport the
defendant's goods from a central warehouse to specific retail outlets of
the defendant. According to him, the arrangements had two facets:- (i)
Octroi paid by the plaintiff on behalf of the defendant was reimbursed
by the defendant along with a service fee upon an octroi invoice being
raised; and (ii) the defendant would pay transportation charges for the
goods moved upon a Stock Transfer Invoice (hereinafter referred to as
'STIs') being raised. He stated that these payments were made on
running and ongoing basis upon the invoices being raised. 3. According to him, the defendant in the Bombay suit had
impugned all the invoices i.e. the octroi invoices and STIs raised by
the plaintiff during the period and has prayed for grant of relief in the
nature of reimbursement and rendition of accounts. 4. Mr. Ashim Sood, pointed out that the present suit pertains to six
invoices raised by the plaintiff on the defendant i.e. four octroi
invoices and two STIs under the same commercial arrangement. He
emphasised that all these invoices were raised during the said period. 5. Learned counsel for the defendant-applicant contended that
these invoices are a subset of the universe of invoices impugned in the
Bombay suit. Therefore, according to him, the question that whether
any amount is due and payable to the plaintiff herein can and will be
ascertained in the Bombay suit. 6. Per contra, Mr. Ravi Gupta, learned senior counsel for plaintiff
stated that the present suit has been filed for recovery of transportation
charges for the transportation of goods. He stated that as the invoice
dated 04th June, 2013 for Rs.46,49,481/- and invoice dated 21st June,
2013 for Rs.19,05,753/- remained unpaid, the plaintiff vide e-mail
dated 05th July, 2013 requested the defendant to release the admitted
outstanding amount of Rs.87,37,638/-. 7. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff contended that the suit
filed by the defendant herein before the High Court of Bombay is not
for recovery of transportation charges, but for recovery of octroi
charges. He emphasised that the Bombay High Court suit only seeks
rendition of accounts qua the invoices that stood paid and in no
manner can be interpreted to include the invoices dated 04th June, 2013
and 21st June, 2013. 8. Mr. Ravi Gupta submitted that the matter in issue in Bombay
suit is not directly or substantially same nor the whole of the subject
matter in both the suits is identical. He pointed out that a Coordinate
Bench of the Court in ITC Hotels Ltd. & Ors. Vs. ABP Pvt. Ltd. &
Ors. , 2017(161) DRJ 512 has held that inherent powers of the Court
cannot be invoked to grant stay of a proceeding and a suit can be
stayed only when the conditions prescribed in Section 10 CPC are
satisfied. Thus, according to him present suit is not liable to be stayed. 9. In rejoinder, Mr. Ashim Sood, learned counsel for defendant-
applicant stated that it is incorrect for the plaintiff to state that the two
STIs do not form a part of the lis in the Bombay suit. According to
him, the Bombay suit clearly makes a reference to these STIs. He CS (OS) 1858/2015 Page 3 of 11 emphasised that though the defendant made a reference to the
plaintiff's e-mail and letter in the Bombay suit asking for money due to
it under the invoices dated 04th June, 2013 and 21st June, 2013, yet the
defendant had clarified that no money was due to the plaintiff. In
support of his contention, he relied upon paras 21(b) and (c) of the
plaint which are reproduced hereinebelow:- 10. He also pointed out that the plaintiff's written statement in the CS (OS) 1858/2015 Page 4 of 11 Bombay suit adverts to the amounts in the invoices claimed in the
present suit. 11. Having heard learned counsel for parties, this Court is of the
view that it is first essential to analyse the purpose, scope and ambit of Section 10 CPC. Section 10 of the CPC is reproduced hereinbelow:- 12. Section 10 is definite and mandatory. The four essential
conditions for the application of this section are; (1) that the matter in
issue in the second suit is also directly and substantially in issue in the
first suit; (2) that the parties in the second suit are the same or parties
under whom they or any of them claim litigating under the same title;
(3) that the court in which the first suit is instituted is competent to
grant the relief claimed in the subsequently suit; and (4) that the
previously instituted suit is pending (a) in the same court in which the
subsequent suit is brought or (b) in any court in India, or (c) in any
court beyond the limits of India established or continued by the
Central Government or (d) before the Supreme Court. 13. The object of Section 10 CPC is to avoid conflict of judicial CS (OS) 1858/2015 Page 5 of 11 decisions by preventing courts of concurrent jurisdiction from
simultaneously adjudicating upon two or more parallel suits in which
the matter in issue is substantially the same. In fact, the fundamental
test to attract Section 10 is whether on final decision being reached in
the previous suit, such decision would operate as res judicata in the
subsequent suit. 14. The Supreme Court in National Institute of Mental Health &
Neuro Sciences Vs. C. Parameshwara , (2005) 2 SCC 256 has held as
under:- (emphasis supplied) 15. Further, the Supreme Court in ASPI Jal and Anr. Vs. Khushroo
Rustom Dadayburjor , (2013) 4 SCC 333 has held as under:- 16. In the present case, the learned senior counsel for plaintiff has
admitted that the octroi invoices in issue in the present suit are also in
issue in the Bombay suit. Thus, the only question to be determined is
whether the two STIs in the present suit are also in issue in the
Bombay suit. 17. In the opinion of this Court, the defendant-applicant has
impugned all STIs issued during the said period in the Bombay suit.
The defendant-applicant in Bombay suit has, in fact, disputed the
factum of actual movements of goods by the plaintiff. The relevant
paragraphs of the plaint are reproduced hereinbelow:- (emphasis supplied) 18. Keeping in view the aforesaid averments, this Court is of the
view that the defendant has impugned the existence and validity of
those two STIs as well. Thus, the two STIs in issue in the present suit
are subject matter of trial in the Bombay suit. 19. Moreover, prayer (f) of the plaint reads as under:- (emphasis supplied) 20. Consequently, this Court is of the opinion that the said prayer is
not limited only to those invoices on which payments have been made,
but includes all invoices that would be necessary to determine the
accounts during the period including the two STIs in the present suit. The expression "amounts so received thereunder" is to be read as
separate and not qualifying all the invoices for which rendition is
sought. 21. This Court is further of the view that the prayers mentioned in
paragraphs 31(a), (b) and (c) in the Bombay suit for payment of money
to the defendant can only be granted after full rendition of accounts, at
the end of which it will become clear as to which party is owed money
and how much. This Court is of the opinion that to grant rendition of
account, the Bombay High Court shall have to ascertain the amount
due to or from the plaintiff and for this purpose, an account shall be
taken. Consequently all octroi invoices and STIs raised during the
period will have to be tried by the Bombay High Court through
evidence as to the truth of their existence and their contents in order to
determine what if anything is payable from the plaintiff to the
defendant. If the Bombay High Court finds that any amount is due
and payable to the defendant at the end of rendition of accounts, that
will necessarily determine the issue in the present suit i.e. if any
money is payable to the plaintiff under the impugned two STIs. 22. Consequently, the matter in issue in the present suit is directly
and substantially in issue in the previously filed Bombay suit. If both
the suits are permitted to proceed, there will be two parallel trials on
the same issue by two Courts and there could be conflicting findings
on identical issues. 23. Accordingly, this Court is of the view that determination of
issues in the Bombay suit would operate as res judicata in the present
suit including with respect to the two STIs. Since the ingredients of CS (OS) 1858/2015 Page 10 of 11 Section 10 CPC are satisfied, the present application is allowed and
the present suit is stayed. MANMOHAN, J
SEPTEMBER 18, 2017
js/rn CS (OS) 1858/2015 Page 11 of 11