Microsoft has filed a lawsuit against unknown individuals for intentionally developing tools to bypass the safety guardrails of its generative AI services. In a complaint filed in a U.S District Court in Virginia, the tech company alleged that its Azure OpenAI service has been abused for “unlawful generation of harmful images”. For context, this AI service is Microsoft’s cloud solution through which customers can access various OpenAI models.

Ten individuals under the pseudonym “ DOE ” have been named as defendants in the legal action. Microsoft claims that the first three formed a service to compromise the accounts of its AI service users and traffic the stolen customer data, while the remaining six were end users of such illegal technology.

The issue was first discovered in July 2024 as a pattern of systematic application programming interface (API) key theft, wherein Microsoft API keys from multiple of its customers were stolen. However, the exact methods employed by the defendants remain unknown. API keys are unique strings of characters to authenticate users of Microsoft’s Azure services.

Further, the defendants created a “hacking-as-a-service” scheme using these stolen keys that could be accessed through domains like “retry.org/de3u” and “aitism.net”. Later, using a “de3u” software and custom-built proxy software, they created HTTP requests mimicking authentic Azure OpenAI Service API calls and sent them to the computer handling this service. While doing so, the defendants’ software also circumvented the technological controls deployed by Microsoft to prevent alteration and misuse of its AI service. To explain, they altered the target endpoint associated with the customer’s API key, so that the key was delivered to the de3u user’s desired endpoint address, as opposed to the endpoint address specified by the customer.

In essence, the criminals illegally scraped exposed customer credentials from public websites, trafficked this data to authenticate information to bypass Microsoft’s technological measures and in doing so, gained access to its software and computer systems. Through this unauthorised access, the defendants created harmful content, infringing on Microsoft’s policies.

These acts in question violate several U.S. laws, like the Computer Fraud & Abuse Act 1986, the Digital Millenium Copyright Act, etc. Under the former, the company claimed that the defendants purposely accessed the “protected computers” (providing the Azure OpenAI service) without authorisation, thereby causing damage and loss. Concerning the latter, Microsoft’s Azure APIs, the software they interact with, and those implementing abuse and content filtering policies are subject to copyright. However, through the “maliciously configured” HTTP requests comprising stolen API keys, defendants evaded Microsoft’s measures to control access to the Azure software.

As per the company’s blog post, the Court order has authorised it to seize a website “instrumental to the criminal operation” to enable Microsoft to gain insight into how such activities are monetized and how they sabotage additional technical infrastructure. Further, the company stated that it has since revoked access to cybercriminals and has amped up safety mitigations to prohibit the reoccurrence of such instances.

Microsoft has consistently emphasised its commitment to combating abusive AI-generated content and customer data privacy protection norms for its AI solutions like Azure OpenAI and Copilot. However, the threat of foreign actors abusing AI tools for cybercriminal purposes has been a topic of concern for AI services. Previously, Microsoft in collaboration with OpenAI has blocked the attempts of various state-affiliated threat actors to exploit such services for phishing or malware purposes. However, unauthorised access to customer API keys could lead to potential data breaches, further exposing sensitive customer information to cybercriminals. Further, such access may also cause service disruptions eroding customer trust, causing financial harm to companies, and damaging their reputation.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event