Dear Sir/Madam, I got scammed on 7th Oct 2020 using OLX platform, in which i lost Rs 1, 97, 000/- which is a hard earned money of a middle class family. We all know that we are not suppose to share our OTP, PIN and even link shared by unknown person. But this QR scan is something new, which I was not aware of, and got trapped in it, as i trusted the OLX organization that no such thing can happen on their platform. Along with the fraudster, OLX is equally responsible for this scam, which is not at all an authentic place for a genuine buyer and seller and giving open platform for the fraudsters for their activities. Case against OLX: I posted an Ad on 6th Oct selling a furniture and AC's, the fraudster contacted me on 6th Evening asking for the number, which normally we share with the dealer, which i shared with him. Then he started the game on 7th Oct around 1pm. The deal was done for Rs 37000/-He said ill make the payment and then he will send the vehicle for the items pickup. He told to accept the money on PAYTM. He sent QR code to scan and accept the payment, which was a totally different way of payment. When we refused that way, he said we do it daily Ma'am, you just have to accept it by sending and receiving the money. He played a trick of Rs 10 which worked for us and we got trapped in it. There was a gap of 15-16 hrs in between posting an Ad and buyer contacting me, why OLX didn't alert me to not to deal with this person, as he was out of my reach, which i checked later, the location was Assam as per "Caller ID NAME APP". After the scam i dont know how OLX comes to know that the fraud has happened and then they remove the fraudsters account which shows inactive user. OLX allows every single person to open an account, share their location and start the deal. Then what for they are asking for the location. They are not even bothered what happens with their customers afterwards. No one has even called me to take an update. I wish I could have read OLX fraud related messages floating in Google, YOU TUBE before, so I could have saved my money. I strongly request you to Please get their license cancelled, as its an unauthentic platform for common man. It has given an open platform for fraudsters to come do the crime. Even OLX is also aware that many such cases are happening nowadays, then what have they done till date to keep their customer safe. It has miserably failed the customer safety test. It should shut down its organization with immediate effect to keep customer safe. Even when i spoke with the Customer care, she said their is no safety as of now, and they are working on KYC .But what with the customers who have already faced such crimes. OLX is fully responsible for refunding my money with the charge of the trauma we have faced. Steps taken by me: a. I informed CITI bank on 7th Oct 4:53pm to stop all the payments as it was a fraud which has happened with us. They should have raised to 3rd party payment bank for UPI transactions fraud and to IMPS transaction to the respective banks. I don't know what actions they took after that. b. I have filed an FIR on 8th Oct, which also seems to be very slow. the fraudster's no is shared in FIR and then also no action has been taken against him, as the no is still ON and still in reach and he is looting other families. Every day he is active on watsapp. If “I” as an individual can check the location of a person, then how many days police needs to trace a criminal. c. The PAYTM cyber cell was informed on 7th Oct evening after scam had happened. They were having all transaction reference numbers shared by me on "[protected]@PAYTM.COM ". They should have raised the request on customers behalf to the respective banks to get their accounts Freezed as soon as they came to know the scam has happened. The Paytm payment bank had full authority to take the appropriate action against the fraudster for misusing their platform, and had full authority to pull the money back, even if the fraudster had transferred the amount to other accounts. I got the transaction details from Paytm bank on 11th Oct, from there we got to know that money had been transferred to SBI, ICICI banks. Here PAYTM was responsible to inform SBI and ICICI to freeze the fraudsters account on 7th Oct itself. Even till date i am not aware whether the fraudster's 3 accounts are freezed or not as the ICICI and SBI Bank have not yet replied to CyberPolice after reminder 1 also. Sharing the Fraudsters contact details: Fraudster 1: Rahul Sharma Mob No [protected] (Who contacted me-OLX buyer) Fraudster2 : AC holder name Sohan Lal AC No[protected] Mobile No [protected] (pardeep kumar) Fraudster3 : AC Jyotsna Barnam AC No[protected] Mobile No [protected] All the 3 mobile no are operational, then why can't we catch them. Who will catch them. I am not able to attach the FIR Copy +other transaction details. Will share it as required by court. I need your help and support in getting my money back. I am attaching a copy of FIR for your kind reference. Please help SIR. Regards, Veena Raina-[protected] Shiv Raina-[protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)