Shri R.K. Srivastava, an IAS officer of 1984 batch of the AGMU cadre, is assailing the Memorandum of Charge dated 15.02.2010 under Rule 8 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, on the grounds of the charge sheet being highly delayed inasmuch as it is about the matter relating to the period between August 1999 and February 2001, the charges being vague and frivolous and also because a criminal case on the same grounds and based on the same documents and witnesses is pending against him before the Special Judge (CBI). He is also challenging the order dated 06.09.2010 by which the inquiry authority has been appointed to inquire into the charges against the Applicant. 2. 	The facts of the case, in a nutshell, are that the Applicant was posted as Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Delhi between the period September 1999 to February 2001. A Writ Petition (Civil) No. 10066/2004 was filed before the Honourable Delhi High Court complaining of illegal nexus between the builders and the officers of the Delhi Development Authority and the office of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, by which land was being allotted to the ineligible societies on concessional rates and then the flats constructed thereon were being sold at market rates by the builders. The High Court, after hearing the case, directed on 13.02.2006, that a thorough investigation be conducted in the matter of 135 Cooperative Societies, which had become defunct and revived by the builders. On completion of the inquiry the CBI requested for sanction of prosecution against the Applicant, which was given on 05.06.2009 by the Department of Personnel and Training (DOP&T). It was also mentioned in the above mentioned letter that the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) had also recommended initiation of major penalty proceedings against the Applicant and advised the Ministry of Home Affairs to take appropriate action in the matter. 3. 	The Article of Charges against the Applicant have been extracted below: 4.	 The learned senior counsel for the Applicant argued that about 135 FIRs were filed after the CBI completed the investigation, but it was only the Applicant who had to face both the criminal prosecution as well as departmental proceedings. No action was taken against other persons holding the post of Registrar before him and involved in the alleged scam. It was urged that during that period Shri Gopal Dixit, the Applicant and Shri N. Diwakar were posted as Registrar of Cooperative Societies, but departmental proceedings were not initiated against the other two persons posted as Registrar of Cooperative Societies, although the charges in the criminal trial against the aforementioned two persons were the same as against the Applicant. 5. 	It was further submitted that on receiving the Memorandum of Charge the Applicant had given a representation to the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, the first Respondent herein, that the orders passed by him in exercise of quasi-judicial powers could not be a subject matter of disciplinary proceedings. It was submitted that in the quasi-judicial proceeding the concerned officer acts independently only under the statute, which he is supposed to administer. The Applicant has worked according to the provisions of the law regarding regulation of Cooperative Societies and the pronouncements of the courts in this regard. The action of the Respondents would amount to undermining the judicial process and call in question the exercise of quasi-judicial powers vested in the Registrar. It was submitted that there was no charge of the Applicant acquiring any material gains in the process of revival of defunct societies or that he acted from corrupt motive. There was no allegation that the Applicant tried to give undue favour to anyone and that he acted recklessly and in a grossly negligent manner. 6. 	It was also contended that the Applicant was facing a criminal trial and issues before the court were complex in nature and involved determination of complicated questions of fact and law. In the circumstances the Respondents were not justified in ordering departmental proceedings against the Applicant. The Applicant would be compelled to disclose his case even before the prosecution had stated its own case in the criminal trial and thus he would be deprived of a fair and just trial. 7. 	It has been contended that the Applicant has acted as per the provisions of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act and Rules. It was argued that there was no provision in the above mentioned Act and Rule for deputing Area Inspector for physical verification. Under Section 40 of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, entries of the list of members of share-holders kept with any Cooperative Society is prima facie evidence of the particulars entered in that register with respect to the date on which the name of any person is entered in the register, who becomes a member or ceases to be a member. It was, therefore, patently wrong on the part of the Respondents to allege that he had knowingly ignored the contents of the note put up by the dealing hand recommending physical verification of the information provided by the Society. A legitimate action performed by a quasi-judicial authority could not be questioned even though it might result in benefit to a person, contended the learned senior counsel for the Applicant. The contents of the impugned Memorandum of Charge did not disclose any misconduct committed by him. The Applicant carried out certain acts in discharge of his quasi-judicial powers as Registrar of Cooperative Societies. He was legally bound to decide every application made to him under the provisions of the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act and could not abdicate his responsibilities. In order to commit misconduct there should be some impropriety in the actions of the Applicant and element of unlawful behaviour and wilful disregard of the law. Errors of judgement would not constitute misconduct and these would have to be corrected in a higher judicial forum. The Respondents never challenged the order passed by the Applicant before the appellate authority, which showed that the order passed by the Applicant was correct and proper. 8. 	It was further argued that the Respondents had completely failed to account for the delay in issuing the Memorandum of Charge highly belatedly. Such action of the Respondents had caused serious prejudice to the Applicant inasmuch as he would not be able to recall the events from such distant past. 9. 	The Respondents have opposed the cause of the Applicant on the ground that the action had been initiated against the Applicant on the direction of the Honourable Delhi High Court and the CVC. 10.	 We have given our utmost consideration to the arguments of the learned counsel for the parties and perused the pleadings in the OA and the counter reply of the Respondents. We have also minutely perused the records placed before us, including the file number 14033/5/08 II of the Ministry of Home Affairs. 11. 	Mainly the following arguments have been advanced on behalf of the Applicant during the course of submission: 12.	 Usually in judicial review the Tribunal should not interfere with the Memorandum of Charge and let the inquiry proceed. Delay in issuing the charge sheet can be one ground for interference, but it is subject to condition that it would depend on the facts of each and every case. If the reasons for delay could be reasonably explained, there would be no need for interfering with the Memorandum of Charge. It is unfortunate that the Respondents have not made any attempt to explain the reasons for delay, which are not far to seek. Normally, we would have accepted the contention of the Applicant that the Memorandum of Charge should be quashed because the long delay in issuing the same had not been explained and the Respondents had not even answered the contention raised in paragraph 5 F of the OA about the delay in issuing charge sheet causing prejudice to the Applicant. However, the charges against the Applicant are serious and also since the delay is so obviously explained by the facts of the case, we are rejecting it. The matter regarding the alleged irregularities came to notice on the Writ Petition (Civil) number 10066/2004 being filed before the Honourable Delhi High Court. The High Court directed in the year 2006 that enquiry into the matter should be made. The CBI completed this inquiry in the year 2008. A similar issue was considered by the Honourable Supreme Court in Food Corporation of India Vs. V.P. Bhatia, JT 1998 (8) SC 16. The Honourable Supreme Court has considered the facts and circumstance of this case to decide whether there was undue delay in serving Memorandum of Charge on the respondent. In this case the CBI was informed by the appellant that sub-standard crates had been supplied to the FCI. On investigation it was found that the crates supplied were indeed sub-standard and that it had caused loss of Rs. 13 lakhs. In its report submitted on 30.12.1988 the CBI recommended holding of disciplinary proceedings against the employees of the appellant-Corporation. Memorandum of Charge was served on the respondent in November 1990. V.P. Bhatia filed a writ petition before the High Court, which was allowed on the ground that the FCI should not have waited for the report of the CBI and should have initiated inquiry straightaway when the misconduct was discovered in the year 1987 itself. The High Court also observed that there was delay even after the submission of the report by the CBI in 1988 because the inquiry was initiated only in 1990. In paragraph 4 of its judgement the Supreme Court observed that: In this case the appellant, FCI, brought it to the notice of the Supreme Court that Chapter III of Volume I of the Vigilance Manual of the CVC, as adopted by the appellant, mandated that once an enquiry is entrusted to the CBI, departmental inquiry should be kept in abeyance till such time as the investigation by the CBI has been completed. In the circumstances the Honourable Supreme Court held that the delay in serving the charge sheet was not unduly long. In State of Punjab and others Vs. Chaman Lal Goyal , (1995) 2 SC 570, it was held that: In the instant OA before us, there was a case pending before the Honourable Delhi High Court. Directions were given in the year 2006. The inquiry would naturally have taken time as there were 135 cases before the CBI for inquiry. After submission of the report of the CBI on 31.07.2008, the matter had to be processed for sanction of prosecution, which was given on 05.06.2009. Advice of CVC had also to be taken for initiating departmental proceedings. In the light of these facts and considering that the charge against the delinquent officer is very serious, we are not inclined to interfere with the charge sheet on the ground that it has been served on him belatedly. 13.	 The issue regarding disciplinary proceedings being maintainable against the orders of quasi-judicial authority has been examined by the Honourable Supreme Court in several judgments. This Tribunal in its judgement in Kamal Kishore Dhawan Vs. the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and others, OA number 1179/2008 decided on 6th February 2009 comprehensively considered the various judgements of the Honourable Supreme Court including Union of India and others Vs. K.K. Dhawan , (1993) 2 SCC 56; Zunjarrao Bhikaji Nagarkar Vs. Union of India and Others , (1999) 7 SCC 409; Union of India and others vs. Duli Chand, (2006)5 SCC 680; Cholan Roadways Ltd. Vs. G. Thirugnanasambandam , (2005) 3 SCC 241; Inspector Prem Chand Vs. Government of NCT of Delhi and others , (Civil Appeal number 1815/2007, decided on 05.04.2007); and Ramesh Chander Singh Vs. High Court of Allahabad and another, (2007) 4 SCC 247. It was observed that in K.K. Dhwan (supra) the Supreme Court distilled six instances, where an officer could be departmentally proceeded against while performing quasi-judicial functions: 14. 	The issue regarding simultaneous criminal proceedings and disciplinary inquiry has been considered by the Honourable Supreme Court in Capt. M. Paul Anthony Vs. Bharat Gold Mines Ltd and another , (1999) 3 SCC 679. After considering the case law in this matter, it was held that: 15. 	We do not agree that merely because two other officers, who were holding the post of Registrar Cooperative Societies during the period of scam have not been proceeded against departmentally, although criminal cases are pending against them also would amount to discrimination against the Applicant and would be in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The charge against the Applicant is specifically about the revival of Palwell Cooperative Society and not about the general scam. It cannot, therefore, be said to be an act of discrimination. 16. 	Considering all the aspects of the case and the judicial pronouncements of the Honourable Supreme Court, we are of the view that the Respondents can proceed against the Applicant in departmental proceedings also, while a criminal case for the same cause of action, based on the same documents and set of witnesses, is also pending against him. The OA is dismissed. No costs.