SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A guy (20,m) touched me (20, F) inappropriately when I was in Class 6. 7-8 years later, he is boasting and joking about it to his male friends who are agreeing with him and laughing along, calling me names. Was it my fault for being so careless?
DATE: 2021-08-20
SCORE: 1338
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/p7uvlm/a_guy_20m_touched_me_20_f_inappropriately_when_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

I studied in a co-ed school since I was in class 4. When boys and girls grow up together, most inhibitions towards opposite gender fade away. We start seeing all classmates as equal. Or so I thought until now.

 1 month earlier, I got to know from one of my male friends that another ex classmate of mine was posting voice recordings on WhatsApp describing a "hilarious incident that happened in class 6". A little bit of context: I was always a tomboy of sorts. My parents were very liberal amd they never made me feel as if I am the so called "weaker sex" and they never told me not to mix with boys like I have heard other parents of my female friends do. Most of my friends were male until class 10. So I used to play a lot and hang out with them too. They never objected to that. I was very carefree and way too innocent to even think about all this then. 

Anyway, so this guy was making fun of me on WhatsApp...." you know, X was such a foolish tomboy, she didn't even realise that I was playing kabaddi with her in the girls vs boys match for entirely different reasons. So when I had the chance to catch her, I didn't let go as fast and pressed on her non existent boobs for quite a while and she never realised it at all! What an idiot!" (This is a very bad translation from what he originally said in bengali, which was much more offensive)

Trust me fellow redditors, when I heard this, my throat closed up. My heart was beating painfully fast. I was choking up. I couldn't even say anything to the male friend who sent me this with a "lol" caption (he couldn't see the problem too. He sent it to me out of sadistic pleasure, I believe) Worse still, I couldn't even remember the kabaddi match clearly and have absolutely no memory of such a thing happening. I can't talk to my parents or my friends for they will only blame me. Hell, I blame myself. Was I really such an idiot back then? Did I really make a joke out of myself? Is this what all my ex classmates back at school think of me rn? Ever since that incident, my mind keeps repeating those words...I just can't forget how mocking and patronising he sounded, how he made fun of me, what disgusting, sexist words he used. Is it really my fault? 

Please tell me what you think and what I should do as I can't confide in anybody who knows me. Anonymity of reddit seems like a blessing rn. I don't know how I am going to face them again. As someone who always told other girls to stand up for themselves, I feel like a fraud rn when I can't even speak up out of sheer embarrassment and shame. All I keep thinking is " am I in the wrong? Should I have been more careful? " I am cursing the innocent child I once was. Maybe if I had known such things, been hyper catious about them.....such a thing wouldn't have happened. Any kind of advice is appreciated