1. Vide this judgment, I shall dispose of present Criminal
 Appeal No. 626/23 filed against judgment of conviction
 dated 31.07.2023 (hereinafter referred as impugned
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 1 of 47. judgment) and order on sentence dated 25.10.2023
 (hereinafter referred as impugned order on sentence) passed
 by Ld. MM (Mahila Court-01), South-West District,
 Dwarka Courts, New Delhi. 2. Vide impugned judgment, appellants herein were convicted
 for offence punishable u/s 498A / 34 IPC and vide impugned
 order on sentence, appellants herein were sentenced simple
 imprisonment for a period of one year and fine of Rs.6,040/-
 payable by each appellants towards prosecution expenses
 for offence punishable u/s 498A IPC and the said amount be
 remitted to the State. Said fine amount was paid by the
 appellants. Both the appellants further sentenced to pay
 Rs.50,000/- each u/s 498A IPC and the same is payable to
 complainant (respondent no. 2 herein) u/s 357 CrPC and in
 default of payment of said amount, both the appellants shall
 further undergo simple imprisonment for a period of three
 months. Brief facts as mentioned in appeal 3. That on 21.11.2003, marriage of appellant no. l and the
 complainant/respondent no. 2 Anupama Chandra was
 solemnized according to Hindu Rites and Ceremonies. That
 appellant no. 1 is M.Tech from NIT, Kurukshetra, and Ph.D
 from University of Quebec, Canada, and regularly features
 in the list of top 2% scientist worldwide published by
 Stanford University annually. Appellant no. 2 is a
 responsible official of Indian Railways. 4. That appellant no. 1 and respondent no. 1 immediately after
 marriage, stayed at campus of DCR University of Science &
 Technology at Murthal, District Sonipat, where the former
 had been employed as a lecturer in the Electrical
 Department. Subsequently, on the nagging insistence of
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 2 of 47. respondent no. 2 and her parents, appellant no. 1 was
 constrained to shift to Delhi in the month of February 2004
 i.e. barely after 2 months of cohabitation at Murthal. 5. That on account of an overwhelmingly oppressive and
 domineering attitude of respondent no. 2's family, who
 wanted appellant no. 1 to either live at respondent no. 2's
 parental house or hire an accommodation close to his in-
 laws residence, serious marital discord developed between
 appellant no. 1 and respondent no. 2. That said conditions,
 imposed by respondent no. 2 and her parents and
 particularly the father, who happen to be well-versed in law
 on account of his experience and quasi-judicial tribunals
 such as National Company Law Tribunal, were not
 acceptable to the self-respecting appellant no. 1. As a result
 of his refusal to be browbeaten into subjugation, respondent
 no. 2 left matrimonial rented accommodation at V-12,
 Rajouri Garden, New Delhi, and started living with her
 parents. The cohabitation, therefore, lasted only up to
 06.03.2005. That under the circumstances, appellant no. 1
 was left with the Hobson's choice of living and the official
 accommodation at the University at Murthal. 6. That post 06.03.2005, respondent no. 2's family continued
 to build pressure on appellant and appellant's parents at
 Jagadhri, District Yamuna Nagar, Haryana, to compel
 appellant to either comply with the condition of staying at
 respondent no. 2's parental house or face legal
 consequences. It was a carrot and the stick attitude
 constantly on display. 7. That appellant, on the strength of his merit, was awarded a
 government fellowship for pursuing higher studies for 3
 years in Canada in March 2007. Since there was a complete
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 3 of 47. marital breakdown between the parties, respondent no. 2
 and her parents could not have been informed about this
 development. That the fact of appellant no. 1 leaving for
 Canada without any intimation to respondent no. 2 or her
 parents prompted respondent no. 2, of course at the instance
 and prompting of her father who is a trained legal mind, to
 lodge a complaint with CAW Cell at Nanakpura against the
 appellants and their parents on 10.05.2007. 8. That on being assured that appellant no. 1 would be coming
 to India, proceedings at CAW Cell were held in suspended
 animation on the basis of respondent no. 2's application
 dated 30.11.2007. That in the meantime, respondent no. 2
 caused legal notice dated 15.01.2008 to be served to
 employer of appellant no. 1, wherein besides expressing her
 own insecurity and deep concern for the safety and well-
 being of her husband i.e. applicant no. 1, she also claimed to
 be entitled to all his salary/official accounts and official
 accommodation. However, she could not succeed in her
 design. Respondent no. 2 was confronted with this notice
 on 15.05.2017 during her cross examination and the same
 was Ex.PW1/DX4. Seeing that contents of the notice were
 in stark contradiction with the case set up by her in her
 complaint before police and would demolish and impeach
 her totally false and fabricated and motivated testimony
 before the Court, she tried to wriggle out and disown the
 contents of the aforesaid notice by stating that the facts
 mentioned in Ex.PW1/DX4 is a typographical mistake. 9. That since appellant no. 1 did not succumb to pressure
 tactics adopted by respondent no. 2 and her family
 members, respondent no. 2 sought revival of the grossly
 baseless complaint tailor-made for invoking Section 498A CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 4 of 47. IPC on 27.04.2008 against appellants and their parents. That
 dancing to the tune of the high profile status of the
 respondent no. 2's father, FIR No. 106/08 was registered
 against the appellants and their parents u/s 498A / 406 / 34 IPC
 at CAW Cell, Nanakpura, Delhi on 23.12.2008. Said FIR
 was registered on ipse dixit of respondent no. 2 and her
 father without complying the mandate of the law laid down
 in the case titled " Chander Bhan & Another Vs. State " 10. That admittedly even after registration of FIR, on
 23.12.2008, respondent no. 2 alongwith her family members
 made a last-ditch effort to coerce appellant no. 1 into falling
 in line with their proposal to either restore the
 marital/matrimonial ties or face the consequences. It is with
 this object in mind that respondent no. 2 had admittedly,
 alongwith other family members including her father,
 visited Canada in July 2010. However, they met with little
 success in compelling appellant no. 1 into succumbing to
 their demand. 11. That thereafter, a sham investigation was carried out and
 charge-sheet was filed on 29.11.2011 by the IO and the
 accused were summoned by the Court. That on 03.06.2013,
 charges were framed against the appellants u/s 498A / 34 IPC
 and u/s 406 IPC was framed against late Chandrawati alone
 to which appellants and late Chandrawati pleaded not guilty
 and consequently, they were put on trial. However, during
 trial Chandrawati expired and proceedings against her stood
 abated. That after trial, impugned judgment and impugned
 order on sentence were passed by Ld. Trial Court. 12. That being seriously aggrieved by impugned judgment and
 impugned order of sentence, the appellants preferred present
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 5 of 47. appeal against the impugned judgment and impugned order
 on sentence. Ground of appeal 13. Because impugned judgment and order on sentence were
 passed by Ld. Trial Court are bad in the eyes of law and on
 surmises and conjectures. 14. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to apply its mind on the
 complete facts and circumstance and evidence present on
 record in as much as no evidence whatsoever of cruelty and
 harassment with respect to demand of dowry was adduced
 by prosecution against the appellants. 15. Because Ld. Trial Court has turned a Nelson's eye to the
 admitted case of prosecutrix that she did not file even a
 single complaint against the alleged megalomania and
 demonic behavior of appellant no. 1 clearly underscoring
 the grossly preposterous and highly motivated allegations
 calculated to wreak vengeance on the appellants and their
 family. On the various states of the arguments, Ld. Trial
 Court's attention was drawn to this glaring omission on the
 part of respondent no. 2 and her father. The non-filing of
 complaint notwithstanding the high degree of criminality of
 the alleged acts by appellant no. 1 clearly raised the
 inference of the total falsehood of her version. Ld. Trial
 Court' attention was drawn to inter-alia the following
 allegations sans any substance: - Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 6 of 47. brother-in-law, at Murthal for resisting the aforesaid
 offer. Yet no complaint to police was made. (ii) On 08.01.2015, during her cross examination, she
 alleged without any material particulars inter-alia
 routine beatings in February 2004 by appellant no. 1 on
 the instigation of his family members was that she
 further alleged insistence by appellant no. 1 on the
 termination of pregnancy and was beaten. Not only
 this, she was also accused of leading an adulterous life.
 Yet no complaint was lodged. (iii) On 24.03.2015, respondent no. 2 alleged that she was
 prevented from taking medicines for avoiding
 miscarriage in the month of April 2004. She further
 alleged inter-alia that appellant no. 1 thrashed her blue
 and black only because she asked for expenses for
 running the domestic chores. Yet no complaint to
 police was made. (iv) During her cross examination on 27.05.2015, she inter- alia alleged that on her first Karvachauth, which fell on
 first of November 2004, she was made to starve
 although she was in advanced stage of pregnancy, not
 only this on 02nd and 03rd November 2004 and only
 two days before the delivery, appellants and mother-in-
 law beaten black and blue for failing to comply with
 the demands. But only this, appellant no. 1 tried to
 manhandle her in the hospital but intervention of some
 persons and hospital staff saved her. Yet no complaint
 to police was made. (v) During cross examination on 27.05.2015, she alleged
 that appellant no. 1 threatened to drop their only baby
 from the balcony because she could not fulfill the
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 7 of 47. demand of Rs.20 lakhs made by mother-in-law. Yet no
 complaint to police was made. 16. Despite this demonical conduct attributed to appellant no. 1
 from the date of her marriage on 21.11.2003 till 06.03.2005,
 not even a single complaint was made to police. This fact
 per se shows that the allegations are bereft of any
 spontaneity and are result of nothing but embellishments
 fueled by the vindictive agenda of respondent no. 2. No
 conviction could have been based on such false and
 preposterous allegations nurtured over a period of time with
 malafide intent of wreaking vengeance on appellants.
 Unfortunately, Ld. Trial Court totally ignored this vital
 aspect of law, notwithstanding umpteen number of
 judgments by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
 submitted before it during the course of arguments. The
 impugned judgment and order on sentence is liable to be set
 aside inter-alia on this ground alone. 17. Because Ld. Trial Court has completely erred in not
 appreciating that respondent no. 2 has indulged in a brazen
 abuse of process of law and used the socially benevolent
 provisions meant for preventing cruelty against wives for
 combating the menace of dowry as an assassin's tool. Ld.
 Trial Court has totally ignored the admitted fact admitted
 fact that prime motive for the complainant till July 2010 was
 the restoration of matrimonial ties with appellant no. 1 when
 she alongwith her entire family visited Canada where
 appellant no. 1 was pursuing his further studies. Her prime
 objective as per her own case, prior to the initiation of the
 criminal proceedings, was to compel appellant no. 1 to stay
 with her at her parents place in Delhi as per the wishes of
 her family and herself. Recourse may be had also to her
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 8 of 47. judicial admission made before Hon'ble High Court of
 Delhi on 20.08.2009 exhibited as Ex.PW4/X1. Ld. Trial
 Court has not appreciated this important fact and has
 completely ignored the testimonies of her father examined
 as PW4, her mother examined as PW8 and her brother i.e.
 PW9. At best, respondent no. 2's case was matrimonial
 desertion by appellant no. 1 in the latter's refusal to live
 with her in Delhi. Unfortunately, to achieve this objective
 which falls in the domain of civil law, respondent no. 2 has
 deployed the machinery of criminal law. Her objective has
 been to ensure the dismissal of the services of the appellants
 on the grounds of criminal conviction only because the
 appellant no. 1 did not succumb to the coercive tactics of
 respondent no. 2 and her father. 18. Because Ld. Trial Court has grossly erred in convicting
 appellants u/s 498A IPC although the prosecution miserably
 failed to establish the consequences of alleged cruelty which
 is a sine qua non for invoking Section 498 A IPC in the
 celebrated judgment passed by Hon'ble Supreme Court of
 India in case titled Sushil Kr. Sharma Vs. Union of India .
 The impugned judgment and order of sentence are bound to
 be set aside on this ground also inter-alia. 19. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that in whole
 complaint and in evidence there was no allegations
 whatsoever that appellants or their late parents prior to
 marriage or at the time of marriage, made any demand of
 dowry or of any valuable security whatsoever. Prosecution
 witnesses were silent and had not uttered even a single word
 on these aspects which is sine qua non for conviction u/s
 498A IPC as there was complete absence of mens rea on the
 part of appellants. CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 9 of 47. 20. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that version of
 PW4, PW6, PW8 and PW9 of alleged incidents of cruelty
 upon respondent no. 2, are not only different but also
 improvised versions. Hence, cannot be relied upon by Ld.
 Trial Court for corroborating the testimony of PW1.
 Moreover, they deposed about the incidents during their
 deposition, wherein neither they were present nor they were
 the party. Their depositions are based on the conversation
 which is hearsay in nature and thus the same cannot be
 relied upon for the conviction of appellants. 21. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that prosecution
 had to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. The
 prosecution miserably failed to bring on record any
 incriminating evidence whatsoever against the appellants.
 Moreover, entire case of prosecution is based entirely upon
 two complaints dated 10.05.2007 (Ex.PW1/A) and
 27.08.2008 (Ex.PW1/B). PW1 at the time of her
 examination in chief had failed to bring on record any
 incriminating material or evidence in support of her
 deposition for corroborating her version. Other PWs had
 not brought any incriminating material or evidence during
 their depositions to support their case or to corroborate their
 allegations and their deposition is merely based upon
 cooked up stories which they failed to prove against the
 appellants in absence of any evidence. 22. Because Ld. Trial Court blindly believed the version of the
 prosecution without giving due regard to the defense put
 forward by appellants are arbitrary and perverse and not in
 accordance with the following well settled principles of
 criminal and jurisprudence. CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 10 of 47. 23. Because Ld. Trial Court grossly erred on relying upon
 testimony of PW4, PW8 and PW9 as their testimony was
 not supported by any valid evidence. Ld. Trial Court failed
 to appreciate that PW4 is father of respondent no. 2, PW8 is
 mother of respondent no. 2 whereas PW9 is real brother of
 respondent no. 2 and they all are related to each other. All
 the above mentioned prosecution witnesses are interested
 witnesses as they drives benefit from conviction of the
 appellants. 24. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate complete
 deposition (examination-in-chief and cross examination) of
 only independent witness i.e. PW6 Gulab Singh who was
 involved in the marriage between appellant no. 1 and
 respondent no. 2. PW6 during his examination-in-chief had
 not uttered even a single word about dowry demand before
 or during or after solemnization of the marriage. He had not
 sighted even a single incident of cruelty or harassment in
 relation to dowry demand. It is submitted that Ld. Trial
 Court erroneously relied upon examination-in-chief at para
 18 of the impugned judgment but had totally ignored the
 cross examination of PW6. 25. PW6 during his cross examination had stated that "It is
 correct that accused Mukhtiar Singh was respectful to me.
 He has never shown me any arrogance to me. It is correct
 that Mukhtiar Singh never insulted or shown any disrespect
 towards his father-in-law, mother-in-law and his wife
 Anupama in my presence." He further stated that "There
 was no dowry demand at the time of wedding and after the
 marriage within my knowledge." PW6 had severely dented
 the case of the prosecution against the appellants. CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 11 of 47. 26. Because Ld. Trial Court grossly erred in completely relying
 upon the statement of respondent no. 2 in as much as no
 material or evidence whatsoever was produced to prove the
 facts alleged by respondent no. 2. 27. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that the
 allegations made by respondent no. 2 are very much general
 and omnibus in nature. No specific role is attributed to
 appellants, moreover, the allegations whatsoever made by
 respondent no. 2 are vague, general and omnibus. Even
 after, completion of entire trial, respondent no. 2 out rightly
 failed to prove even a single allegation which is specific in
 nature. The prosecution has completely failed to establish
 any specific role to appellant no. 2 and he had to undergo
 the entire process of trial being real brother of husband of
 respondent no. 2. 28. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that testimonies
 of PW4, PW8 and PW9 are based on hearsay evidence and
 that they are not eyewitness of any of alleged incidents, thus
 corroboration of the alleged incidents does not arise at all. 29. Because principles laid down in the judgments relied upon
 by Ld. Trial Court have not been properly examined and
 tested upon the facts and circumstances of the present case
 by Ld. Trial Court itself. 30. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that
 investigation agency failed to bring any incriminating
 evidence against the appellants for proving the alleged
 incidents. 31. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that after
 conclusion of trial it has to evaluate the material and
 documents on record with a view to finding out if the facts

CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 12 of 47. emerging therefrom, taken at their face value, would
 constitute all the ingredients of the alleged offence or not. 32. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that no
 evidence or specific allegation has been leveled against the
 appellants, which could show willful conduct of appellants
 of harassment of respondent no. 2 at their hands with a view
 to coercing her to meet any unlawful demand by them so as
 to attract the provisions of Section 498A IPC. 33. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that PW8 Raj
 Kumari in her cross examination specifically admits that " I
 cannot say whether dowry was demanded/offered or not
 demanded/offered at the time of/or before the marriage
 since the same talks were held with my husband. " She
 further admits that "My daughter had told me about the
 difficulties in her day to day travel from Murthal to Delhi.
 We had advised her and accused Mukhtiyar to sort out the
 difficulties by shifting to Delhi." 34. Because Ld. Trial Court grossly erred in relying upon
 testimony of PW4, PW8 and PW9, who are interested
 witnesses, without even adopting a careful approach and
 analyzing the evidence to find out whether it is cogent and
 credible in as much as the versions of PWs are not only
 different but also improvised and unproved versions of
 respondent no. 2. 35. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that no specific
 allegation has been made against appellant no. 2 Satender
 Partap Singh with reference to his willful conduct of cruelty
 towards the respondent no. 2 with any demand of dowry. 36. Because Ld. Trial Court while awarding the sentence
 grossly erred by not considering the pronouncements and
 judgments filed and relied upon by the appellants at the time
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 13 of 47. of final arguments. Ld. Trial Court has not even uttered a
 single about those pronouncement and judgment and had
 not appreciated the same hence, the impugned judgment is
 not in consonance with the guidelines and principles issued
 by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and various Hon'ble
 High Court. 37. Because Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that in order to
 convict a person u/s 498A IPC, there must be evidence to
 prove that willful conduct of the person drove a woman to
 commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life,
 limb or health (mental or physical). It is submitted that the
 prosecution had failed to even fulfill the ingredients of Section 498A IPC even after completion of trial. 38. Because Ld. Trial Court while awarding the sentence
 grossly erred by not considering the provisions of Section 4 of Probation of Offender's Act, 1958 despite a specific
 prayer so made by the defense and extending the benefit of
 the same to the appellants. Ld. Trial Court while awarding
 the sentence grossly erred as the same had totally neglected
 the social investigation report from Probation Officer,
 wherein the conduct of the convicts was good in the society. 39. No reply to the appeal was filed on behalf of respondents.
Facts mentioned in written arguments of appellants 40. Ld. Trial Court failed to observe that no specific allegation
 of demand of dowry and due to denial of such demand by
 respondent no. 2, the appellants had inflicted cruelty upon
 respondent no. 2 has been proved by the prosecution and the
 allegations whatsoever alleged by complainant/respondent
 no. 2 are general vague and omnibus and lacks in material
 substance. Ld. Trial Court had failed to apply the principles
 of evidence in the present case and had reiterated the entire
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 14 of 47. examination in chief of prosecution witnesses in the
 impugned judgment. Moreover, Ld. Trial Court had not
 appreciated the testimony of PW6, sole independent witness
 in the present case. 41. Ld. Trial Court has blindly believed the story of the
 prosecution and after taking into all the cruelties (which
 were not covered under the ambit of Section 498A IPC) into
 account has without due application of mind has passed the
 impugned judgment. 42. Respondent no. 2 in her complaints made to CAW Cell had
 made various allegations against the appellants which are
 very general and omnibus in nature and that the same are
 without any proof and are only dependent upon the oral
 testimonies of PW1, PW4, PW8 and PW9 who are family
 members and interested witnesses. Only independent
 witness PW6 brought by the prosecution does not even
 whisper about either the alleged conduct of the appellants
 i.e. dispute between respondent no. 2 and appellant no. 1
 was due to demand of dowry or the alleged
 incidents/allegations made by the respondent no. 2. 43. Ld. Trial Court has miserably failed to appreciate the
 testimonies of the aforesaid witnesses in as much as their
 stories of the same incidents do not match and they have
 made certain improvements in their statements and cross
 examinations. 44. In one such alleged incidents of 12.11.2004, PW1 during her
 examination in chief states "On 12.11.2004 on the day of
 Diwali, my parents came to wish Diwali at my home at
 V-12, Rajouri Garden, New Delhi where my husband,
 mother in law and brother in law were present. My husband
 made a direct demand of Rs. 20 Lacs to my father. My
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 15 of 47. brother-in-law Satender Pratap Singh without offering a
 glass of water on that festival day abused and insulted my
 parents badly on their faces. My mother went weeping
 from my home on Diwali with my poor sad father." 45. PW4 i.e. father of respondent no. 2 (PW1) states in his
 examination in chief "On 12.11.2004 at the eve of Diwali, I
 alongwith my wife went to V-12 Rajouri Garden, New
 Delhi i.e. rented house of Mukhtiyar Singh and my daughter
 to wish them Diwali where accused Chandrawati,
 Mukhtiyar Singh and Satinder Pratap Singh were present
 there. As soon as I wished Diwali to them Mukhtiyar Singh
 directly demanded a sum of Rs. 20 lacs from me to run the
 petrol pump. I refused with folded hand then Mukhtiyar
 Singh and Satinder Pratap insulted me and my wife and
 pushed us out of house which was done with the support of
 Chandrawati. We were very sad with their behavior but we
 were helpless. When we were leaving the house of
 Anupama and Mukhtiyar Singh, Anupama was weeping and
 fearing the danger of her life and the son's life." 46. PW8 states in her examination in chief " On 12.11.2004, on
 the festival of Diwali, me and husband went to the rented
 accommodation at Delhi where my daughter was staying to
 wish them. There Mukhtiyar Singh demanded Rs. 20 lacs
 from us when we refused he started abusing us. Satender
 Pratap was also present there at that time. He also abused
 us, pushed us and stood to hit us." 47. PW9 in his examination in chief states " On 12.11.2004
 Mukhtiyar Singh, Satender Pratap Singh and Chandrawati
 had demand Rs. 20 lacs from my father for purchasing of
 patrol pump but father refused for same." The prosecution
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 16 of 47. failed to prove demand made by appellant except the self-
 serving statements of interested witnesses which are not
 same and exaggerated versions which cannot be taken into
 consideration as no independent witness or proof has been
 brought on record. Ld. Trial Court failed to record the
 infirmity in their statements and cross examinations and has
 blindly believed the versions of prosecution without further
 introspection into the trustworthiness of aforesaid witnesses.
 Furthermore, testimony of PW9 has to be disregarded in as
 much as the same is completely hearsay. 48. Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the fact that PW4, PW8
 and PW9 are tutored witnesses. Moreover, despite their best
 efforts and all tutoring the aforesaid witnesses had deposed
 their improvised version of incident dated 12.11.2004. Ld.
 Trial Court relied upon the testimony without examining the
 veracity and correctness. Ld. Trial Court failed to
 appreciate the fact that all the aforesaid witnesses are family
 members and their depositions should be corroborated with
 due care and caution. In the present case, prosecution has
 miserably failed to produce any evidence whatsoever in
 support of the allegations so made by respondent no. 2. Ld.
 Trial Court had only relied upon the uncorroborated
 testimonies of respondent no. 2 and her other family
 members which are not only contradictory but also
 improvised by the witness as and when required to support
 the false case of respondent no. 2. 49. Ld. Trial Court has completely disregarded testimony of
 PW5 and failed to take into account the complete set of
 events/allegations against the appellants which clearly
 shows that the abovesaid witnesses are not reliable. CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 17 of 47. 50. Ld. Trial court has completely disregarded the testimony of
 PW6 and failed to appreciate the independent deposition
 qua the false allegations of demand of dowry by the
 appellants. PW6 in his examination in chief states that " I
 know the complainant's father since the year 1954. As such
 I know his daughter Anupama also. I was involved in the
 marriage talks, however, I was not the mediator. I remained
 present in the meetings between complainant's family and
 the accused family and other ceremonies before and at that
 time of the marriage." 51. PW6 in his cross examination further sates that "There was
 no dowry demand at the time of the wedding and after the
 marriage within my knowledge." Moreover, PW8 who is
 the mother of respondent no. 2 discarded the allegations of
 demand of dowry so made by respondent no. 2 at the time
 or before the marriage. PW8 in her cross examination had
 stated that "I cannot say whether dowry was
 demanded/offered or not demanded/offered at the time of/or
 before the marriage since the same talks were held with my
 husband." 52. Ld. Trial Court had failed to analyze that respondent no. 2
 was a highly educated, self-sufficient, independent and
 outgoing lady. As per own case of respondent no. 2, she
 was employed and was doing government job in Delhi prior
 to her marriage. PW8 in her examination in chief states that
 "She (complainant) was employed in a government job
 from prior to her marriage." 53. Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that being a working
 woman, respondent no. 2 used to go to her office on daily
 basis. Respondent no. 2 was not confined to the four walls
 of her matrimonial house or she was not allowed to have
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 18 of 47. any interaction with physical world outside of her
 matrimonial home. She used to meet her fellow employs,
 friends and various other persons. Respondent no. 2 was
 having access to all the authorities and having sufficient
 resources. However, respondent no. 2 never shared any
 incident with anyone at her workplace or to any of her
 friends. She had never disclosed about the alleged incidents
 to any other person apart from her father and mother during
 a prolonged marriage. Evidence produced by respondent
 no. 2 during trial are only oral in nature without
 corroboration of any independent witness. 54. Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that despite having a free
 and unrestricted access, the complainant never reported the
 alleged incidents to any competent authority or sought their
 assistance. No distress call or police helpline call was ever
 made by respondent no. 2, her father, mother or any of her
 other family members against the appellants. Respondent
 no. 2 had alleged about physical abuse in the aforesaid case
 but had never visited any doctor or physician for any
 treatment or medical care. Moreover, respondent no. 2
 failed to bring on record any medical prescription or
 photographs qua the allegations of physical assault as
 alleged by her. 55. Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that father of respondent
 no. 2 was highly educated who with qualification of
 M.Com, LL.B and had retired from Ministry of Company
 Affairs, thus was having complete knowledge of prevalent
 laws for protection of women. Thus, as alleged even after
 facing so much cruelty at the hands of appellants he did
 nothing i.e. no complaint was ever made by him, which
 casts a serious disbelief and suspicion upon his conduct.
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 19 of 47. 56. Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that PW6 an independent
 witness who was also the mediator of marriage of appellant
 no. 1 and respondent no. 2 did not even whisper about the
 precondition of marriage kept by respondent no. 2 and her
 family members that appellant shall shift to Delhi after the
 marriage as respondent no. 2 was working in Delhi. 57. Ld. Trial Court blindly believed the testimonies of
 respondent no. 2 and her family members i.e. PW4, PW8
 and PW9 as gospel truth and in name of examining their
 testimonies. Ld. Trial Court has misconstrued the
 testimonies and wrongly observed that PW4, PW8 and PW9
 who are father, mother and brother of respondent no. 2
 (PW1) corroborated the testimony of PW1. 58. Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate that appellant no. 1 was
 finely placed and highly qualified individual who was a
 permanent faculty at Murthal, Haryana and was allotted
 government accommodation at Murthal and was also having
 his ancestral home at Jagdari, Haryana and it was
 respondent no. 2, who was working in Delhi and wanted to
 shift to Delhi. Moreover, parents of respondent no. 2 were
 also residing in Delhi, thus the alleged story of demand of
 house by appellant at Delhi was unsustainable and
 unbelievable. 59. Ld. Trial Court failed to analyze the main bone of
 contention and motive behind the false implication of the
 appellants by respondent no. 2 and her parents in the case.
 PW8 in her examination in chief states "We gave an
 matrimonial advertisement for our daughter in a newspaper,
 through which accused's brother Satender Pratap who is
 younger brother of accused Mukhtiar Singh contacted us.
 As my daughter was working in Delhi, I inquired from
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 20 of 47. Satender Pratap as to how will they manage the residence
 after the marriage since they were residing in Murthal. He
 assured me that accused Mukhtiar will be residing with my
 daughter in Delhi only after marriage. When we personally
 met the accused and his parents, they also assured us that
 accused would be residing in Delhi only after marriage, on
 this assurance, we fixed their alliance." Whereas she had
 stated in her cross examination that " We had told the family
 of the accused before the marriage that this alliance would
 not work because my daughter was working in Delhi while
 the accused Mukhtyar Singh was working in Murthal." 60. Ld. Trial Court failed to analyze the testimonies of
 interested witnesses and erred in observing that they have
 supported the case of prosecution and that no specific
 allegation has been made against appellant no. 2 i.e.
 Satender Pratap Singh with respect to his willful conduct of
 cruelty towards respondent no. 2 with any demand of dowry.
 The allegations against the appellants are far from being
 proved. 61. The prosecution even after conducting a prolonged trial had
 miserably failed to prove the guilt of appellants beyond
 reasonable doubt. The prosecution had failed to establish
 the hypothesis of guilt against the appellants, hence, the
 present appeal is preferred by the appellants. 62. It is prayed that the impugned judgment and order on
 sentence may be set aside. Facts mentioned in written submissions of respondent no. 2 63. Brief facts of the case are as under: - 64. Marriage took place on 21.11.2003 at Delhi. One male
 child was born on 5.11.2004, who is in care and custody of
 respondent no. 2 since 06.03.2005. Husband and wife
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 21 of 47. resided together at Murthal and thereafter, shifted to Rajouri
 Garden in a rented premises on 08.02.2004. Appellant no. 1
 left the company of respondent no. 2 and child finally on
 06.03.2005 and never returned back. 65. Respondent no. 2 waited a long time (2 years) and filed a
 complaint in CAW Cell, Nanakpura, on 10.05.2007
 (Ex.PW1/A). During enquiry, she came to know that her
 husband had already moved to Canada in March 2007 for
 his Ph.D. program without informing and intimation to
 respondent no. 2. Upon service of appellant no. 1, he wrote
 a letter to ACP, Women Cell, that he is planning to come in
 India in April 2008 to solve the dispute at the earliest and
 further apprised that he never denied for keeping his marital
 relationship with respondent no. 2. Letter dated 09.07.2007
 written to ACP by appellant no. 1 is already matter of
 record. On the assurance of appellant no. 1, respondent no.
 2 temporarily withdraw her complaint on 30.11.2007. 66. Despite assurance, appellant no. 1 did not returned back and
 hence, respondent no. 2 filed another complaint dated on
 27.08.2008 upon which FIR No. 106/08, u/s 406/498A/34 IPC was lodged in PS Nanakpura. 67. In July 2010, respondent no. 2 herself alongwith the child
 went to Canada to meet and know about their marital life
 but appellant no. 1 refused to live with respondent no. 2 and
 she returned back with empty hands. Appellant no. 1
 returned back to India in August 2010. 68. Charge-sheet was filed in concerned Ld. Mahila Court and
 cognizance was taken against all three accused persons u/s
 207 CrPC and charge vide order dated 03.06.2013 was
 framed against appellant no. 1 and 2 for offence u/s
 498A / 34 IPC and charge against accused Chandrawati for
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 22 of 47. offence u/s 406 IPC and matter was listed for prosecution
 evidence. During pendency of case accused Chandrawati
 was died and proceeding against her stood abated. 69. Prosecution cited 14 witnesses, out of which 12 were
 examined in support of the case. That witness namely
 Anupama, who is complainant in this case was examined as
 PW1. Puran Chand, father of complainant, examined as
 PW4. Raj Kumari, mother of complainant, examined as
 PW8. Deepak Kumar, brother of complainant, examined as
 PW9. All the abovesaid witnesses corroborated their
 statements, the other witnesses deposed their evidence and
 they all corroborated their statements and the prosecution
 successfully proved their case against both the appellant u/s
 498A IPC by leading reliable, cogent and convincing
 evidence. 70. PW1 Anupama very specifically deposed in Court in her
 chief examination as under: - 2 beat respondent no. 2 cruelly and said that he is
 bad character women and knows how to deal with
 respondent no. 2. CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 23 of 47. Singh went back after abusing and threatening
 respondent no. 2. (v) On 08.02.2004, respondent no. 2 and appellant no. 1
 shifted to Delhi on 08.02.2004 at V-12, Rajouri
 Garden, New Delhi but after some days again
 appellant no. 1 started beating and threatening
 respondent no. 2 for not giving a flat to appellant no. 1. Pushing and hitting respondent no. 2 by nails has
 become his daily routine to harass respondent no. 2.
 In-laws of respondent no. 2 has lust of dowry was so
 much dominating that they used to call appellant no.
 1 and asked whether he has got more money from
 parents of respondent no. 2 or not. In-laws of
 respondent no. 2 instigated appellant no. 1 to beat
 respondent no. 2. (vi) Respondent no. 2 and appellant no. 1 used to go
 every Saturday morning and come back Monday
 morning at Jagadhari where parents of the appellants
 were living. (vii) Appellant no. 1 tried to convince respondent no. 2 to
 get the child aborted. She refused, then real face of
 appellant no. 1 appeared, who pulled hairs of
 respondent no. 2 and said that he married with
 respondent no. 2 with the purpose of getting good
 money as a dowry in marriage and appellant no. 1
 would responsibility of the child as appellant no. 1
 has to settled his two younger brothers. Appellant
 no. 1 even went up to the extent saying that he is not
 the father of the child and asked respondent no. 2 to
 prove that he is bearing his child. Even after
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 24 of 47. listening this, respondent no. 2 did not agree for
 abortion. After this appellant no. 1 adopted
 unbelievable and horrible ideas to harass respondent
 no. 2. (viii) Respondent no. 2 got ultrasound done in RML
 Hospital and found that it is a threatened abortion
 and the same as Ex.PW1/A1 to Ex.PW1/A3. (ix) Respondent no. 2 took prescribed medicine and her
 condition started improving. Appellant no. 1
 became angry. He used to either hide the medicine
 or snatched it from her hands. He used to give as
 much tension as he could. He did not allow
 respondent no. 2 to make food on time. When her
 parents left, appellant no. 1 beaten her blue and
 black. Appellant no. 1 and his mother did not feel
 pity even when respondent no. 2 was pregnant. (x) Appellant no. 1 never gave his salary for domestic
 expenses. She do not know what he was doing with
 his salary. Whenever asked, she was badly beaten
 by him. He used to take away salary of respondent
 no. 2. (xi) In the month of September 2004, appellant no. 2
 Satender Pratap Singh again came to reside with
 appellant no. 1 and respondent no. 2 for want of job
 in Delhi. He used to insult respondent no. 2 for
 frustration due to his ill fate. (xii) On 2nd and 3rd November 2004, appellant no. 1 and 2
 and their mother beat respondent no. 2 blue and
 black. Those 2 days are still frightening for
 respondent no. 2. They even did not care during her
 pregnancy. CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 25 of 47. Puram, where parents of respondent no. 2 came.
 Appellant no. 1 threatened to kill respondent no. 2 in
 front of her mother which was silently tolerated by
 her mother. Parents of respondent no. 2 were
 confirmed about the ill-treatment of appellant no. 1
 and his family towards respondent no. 2 but they
 were also hoping that the birth of the child will settle
 all this. She gave birth to a baby boy on 5.11.2004.
 There was no happiness on the face of appellant no.
 1, 2 and their parents. Appellant no. 1 went up to the
 extent of saying that he did not like her child but he
 likes his nephew. He tortured her emotionally by
 saying that respondent no. 2 and child was wasting
 his leaves. (xiv) Respondent no. 2 was discharged from the hospital
 on 11.11.2004. On the same day, appellant no. 1, 2
 and their mother abused her at home. She was
 weeping bitterly holding her son in her arms. (xv) On 12.11.2004, on the day of Diwali, parents of
 respondent no. 2 came to wish Diwali at her home at
 V-12, Rajouri Garden, New Delhi, where appellant
 no. 1, 2 and their mother were present and appellant
 no. 1 made a direct demand of Rs. 20 lacs to father
 of respondent no. 2. Her father refused with folded
 hands. Listening this, appellant no. 2 Satender
 Pratap Singh without offering a glass of water on
 that festival day, abused and insulted parents of
 respondent no. 2 badly on their faces. Her mother
 went weeping from her home on Diwali with her
 poor sad father. Appellant no. 2 abused respondent
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 26 of 47. no. 2 by saying that "saali, bring money or I shall
 not leave you and your parents". That day appellant
 no. 1 declared that he would leave her forever. The
 depth of his words became clear some days. On
 15.11.2004, appellant no. 1 left respondent no. 2
 alongwith the child in the rented house at V-12,
 Rajouri Garden, New Delhi. (xvi) On 01.02.2005, mother of appellant no. 1 again
 came to reside with appellant no. 1 and respondent
 no. 2 at Rajouri Garden. She again pressurized
 respondent no. 2 to bring Rs. 20 lacs from her
 parents. (xvii) Mother of the appellant went back after residing for
 8 days with them. For about one month respondent
 no. 2 tolerated atrocities of appellant no. 1. He
 continued to torture and irritate her and did not
 arranged ration for preparing meal etc. On
 06.03.2005, appellant no. 1 left respondent no. 2 at
 the rented house in Rajouri Garden alongwith child
 by warning to her teach a lesson. (xviii) Finally she approached CAW Cell, Nanakpura, on
 10.05.2007 and lodged a complaint Ex.PW1/A. 71. PW4 Pooran Chandra (father of respondent no. 2) deposed
 as under: - Appellant no. 1 further told to respondent no. 2 to take
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 27 of 47. them back. He further told that they are not happy and
 they expected more costly clothes. (iii) After one month, respondent no. 2 informed her father
 that appellant no. 1, 2 and their parents are pressurizing
 her to demand a flat in Delhi from me for appellant no. 1. (iv) Respondent no. 2 told PW4 that appellant no. 1, 2 and
 other in-laws are angry with her and they are taunting
 that they have been given nothing in the marriage and
 not properly regarded. (v) On 12.11.2004, at the eve of Diwali, father of
 respondent no. 2 alongwith his wife went to V-12,
 Rajouri Garden, New Delhi i.e. rented house appellant
 no. 1 and respondent no. 2 to wish Diwali, where
 mother of appellants, appellant no. 1 and 2 were
 present there. As soon as PW4 wished Diwali to them,
 appellant no. 1 directly demanded a sum of Rs. 20 lacs
 from him to run the petrol pump. PW4 refused with
 folded hands then appellant no. 1 and 2 insulted him
 and his wife and pushed them out of the house which
 was done with support of Chandrawati. (vi) On first hearing before CAW Cell, Nanakpura, Ajay
 Pal Singh elder brother of appellant no. 1 attended the
 meeting and disclosed that appellant no. 1 had gone to
 Canada for three years. He was shocked and
 respondent no. 2 also perturbed tearfully hearing that
 he has gone to Canada for a long period of three years. 72. PW8 Raj Kumar (mother of respondent no. 2) deposed as
 under: - Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 28 of 47. Atar Singh and Chandrawati are demanding a house in
 Delhi from her. (ii) Appellant no. 2 also mostly resided with appellant no. 1 although he used to make visit to Jagadhari. (iii) Appellant no. 1 used to quarrel and beat respondent no. 2 and also used to abuse her. Appellant no. 2 also used
 to taunt and insult respondent no. 2 on this issue.
 Appellant no. 2 used to say "Aurat ke pair dekh kar
 pehchan leta hu ki vo kaise chal-chalan ki hai". (iv) Appellant no. 1 wanted to respondent no. 2 to abort the
 child and for this he used to beat, abuse and pulled her
 hair. Appellant no. 1 also used to threaten respondent
 no. 2 by wrapping himself in white cloth and
 pretending to be dead. (v) Due to this physical and mental harassment,
 respondent no. 2 fell ill and she had admitted in RML
 Hospital by her parents. (vi) On 12.11.2004, on the festival of Diwali, parents of
 respondent no. 2 went to rented accommodation at
 Diwali where respondent no. 2 was staying with her in-
 laws. Appellant no. 1 demanded Rs. 20 lacs from
 parents of respondent no. 2 and when they refused, he
 started abusing them. Appellant no. 2 was also present
 there at that time. He also abused, pushed them and
 stood to hit them. 73. PW9 Deepak (brother of respondent no. 2) deposed as
 under: - Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 29 of 47. marriage and the same was decided in the presence of
 respondent no. 2 and appellant family alongwith Gulab
 Singh. (Vol. This arrangement was made on account of
 job of respondent no. 2 was at Delhi.) 74. Beside the abovesaid witnesses there are other witnesses i.e.
 PW2 Rajender Kr. Gupta, who is having the jewellery shop
 and sold the jewellery articles. Other witnesses PW3, PW5,
 PW7, PW10, PW11 and PW12 also corroborated their
 respective statements. 75. Accused persons gave their defense evidence and produced
 2 witnesses Dr. Jaipal Asstt. Professor of KUK was cross
 examined by ld. APP for State that wherein he deposed that
 he does not have any documentary evidence regarding his
 claim that in-laws of appellant no. 1 used to transfer the
 financial benefit to them which belongs appellants. He does
 not have any documentary evidence of talking of appellant
 no. 1 while he was in Canada. 76. DW2 Rishipal Singh (cousin brother of appellants) deposed
 in cross examination by ld. APP for State that he does not
 remember the date, time and month of visiting the house of
 appellant no. 1 but he used to visit every year once.
 Appellant no. 1 used to live in Rajouri Garde Delhi but he
 does not remember the exact address of his house. Vol. He
 used to go the second floor by stairs. He used sell raw
 chilly in the month of November every year. He does not
 know the name of in-laws of appellant no. 1. Father-in-law
 of appellant no. 1 was Judge but he does not know the
 occupation of mother-in-law of appellant no. 1. He used to
 stay at home of appellant no. 1 as guest for 2-3 hours. It is
 correct that today, he has come to depose in the Court

CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 30 of 47. alongwith appellant no. 1 and he only has brought him to
 give evidence in his favour in this case. COURT'S CONCLUSION 77. The law with respect to 498A IPC is stated as under. 78. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in case titled Pominder
 Kumar Chhabra Vs. State, (Crl. Rev. P. 570/2010), has
 discussed the scope of section 498A as under: - means- (a) any willful conduct which is of
 such a nature as is likely to drive the woman
 to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or
 danger to life, limb or health (whether mental
 or physical) of the woman; or (b) harassment
 of the woman where such harassment is with a
 view to coercing her or any person related to
 her to meet any unlawful demand for any
 property or valuable security or is on account
 of failure by her or any person related to her
 meet such demand." For constituting of an offence under Section 498A IPC,
 the ingredients thereof must be held to be existing. They
 have been enumerated by the Supreme Court in case titled Bhaskar Lal Sharma and another Vs. Monica reported as
 (2009) 10 SCC 604 as below: - 79. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a recent judgment titled Dara Lakshmi Narayana & Others V. State of Telangana &
 Another , (Arising out of Special Leave Petition (Criminal)
 No. 16239 of 2024), has held as under: - 80. Similarly, Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case titled Muppidi Lakshmi Narayana Reddy & Others Vs. The State
 of Andhra Pradesh & Another , (Arising out of SLP (Crl.)
 No(s). 2570 of 2018), has held as under: - 81. In the facts and circumstances of the present case, there are
 allegations of cruelty levelled by respondent no. 2 against
 the appellants herein and to prove its case the prosecution
 has sought corroboration from PW4, PW8 and PW9.
 However, the other factual things that have escaped from the
 mind of the Ld. Trial Court is the time gap between the
 incidents of cruelty and lodging of the complaint, the
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 36 of 47. independent witness PW6, the willingness of respondent no.
 2 to reside with appellant no. 1 despite acts of cruelty,
 keeping the complaint in abeyance, the position of
 respondent no.2 in society/her educational qualifications/her
 background/her understanding of rights. 82. This case is a classic example of misuse of provision of Section 498A IPC. The respondent no. 2 in her testimony
 before the court has alleged the following acts of cruelty by
 the appellants: - 2 for getting good money as dowry in marriage and he
 would not take the responsibility of the child as he has to
 settle his two younger brothers. Appellant no. 1 stated that
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 37 of 47. child did not belong to him and asked respondent no. 2 to
 prove that it was the child of appellant no. 1. He used to
 hide medicines or snatch it from the hand of respondent no. 2. (g) It is also alleged that the appellant no. 1 used to scare
 respondent no. 2 by continuous staring at her, by wrapping
 himself in a white bedsheet. (h) In may 2004, mother in law came to reside with
 appellant no. 1 and respondent no. 2 and demanded money
 on the occasion of birth on new born child. But upon refusal
 from my parents the appellant no. 1 had beaten respondent
 no. 2. (i) Respondent no. 2 was never given any money for
 domestic expenses by appellant no. 1 nor she was given any
 gifts by appellant no. 1. (j) On 31.10.2024 appellant no. 1 demanded Rs. 20 lacs
 from my father for opening up a petrol pump for brother in
 law. (k) On 2/3 November 2004 appellant no. 1, appellant no. 2
 and mother in law had beaten up respondent no. 2. On
 4.11.2004, appellant no. 1 had threatened to kill respondent
 no.2 in front of mother of respondent no. 2. (l) On 10.11.2024, the appellant no. 1 took off the clothes
 of 6 days baby due to which he was shivering in cold and
 asked respondent no. 2 to choose between her parents and
 him. (m) On 12.11.2024, on the day of Diwali demand of Rs. 20
 lacs was once again made by appellant no. 1 to the father of
 respondent no. 2 in presence of her mother. They were
 humiliated by appellant no.1, appellant no. 2 and the mother
 in law. CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 38 of 47. (n) On 15.11.2004 the appellant no. 1 left the company of
 respondent no. 2 and his child and after some days the
 respondent no. 2 started residing at her parental home. (o) On 20.01.2005 some elderly people intervened and
 appellant no. 1 decided to co habit with respondent no. 2 if
 some money is given to him but he was unhappy. On
 01.02.2005 when mother in law came to reside with
 respondent no. 2 and appellant no.1 she demanded a sum of
 Rs. 20 lacs again. Appellant no. 1 said that he would hurt
 the child if money is not given, then appellant no. 1 took the
 child in his arms and stood in the balcony, the mother-in-law
 held the hand of respondent no. 2 tightly and just then
 appellant no. 1 shouted that he will drop the child from the
 balcony. (p) On 06.03.2005, appellant no.1 had left respondent no.
 2 with the child and thereafter respondent no. 2 came to live
 at her parent's house alongwith the child. It is alleged that
 the appellant no.1 did not fulfill his responsibilities towards
 respondent no. 2 and his child and on 10.05.2007 a
 complaint was lodged with CAW. 83. These allegations of PW1/respondent no. 2 has found
 corroboration with PW4, PW8 and PW9 who happens to be
 the relatives of PW1 being father, mother and brother. Apart
 from these witnesses the Ld. Trial Court has not evaluated
 any other circumstance. It is a settled principle of law that
 the evidence tendered by the related or interested witness
 cannot be discarded on that ground alone. However, as a
 rule of prudence, the Court may scrutinize the evidence of
 such related or interested witness more carefully. Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India in Ilangovan Vs. State of T.N. ,
 (2020) 10 SCC 533, has held as follows: - 84. In the instant case, there are reasons to disbelieve the
 testimony of the witnesses for the facts that have remained
 unnoticed by the Ld. Trial Court. Firstly, as per the case of
 the prosecution respondent no. 2 was subjected to cruelty
 from the first day of her marriage until 06.03.2005 but she
 had lodged the complaint for the first time on 10.05.2007,
 i.e., almost after two years. The prosecution has tried to
 explain the delay by stating the respondent no. 2 was
 hopeful that her marriage would survive but the kind of
 allegations that have been levelled against appellant no. 1
 and appellant no. 2 in the present complaint will not be
 tolerated by an educated female or her family. It is not the
 case of the prosecution that the respondent no. 2 was
 uneducated or unaware about her rights. There was no
 reason for the respondent no. 2 to tolerate such acts of
 cruelty. It is the case of the prosecution that the last act of
 cruelty was committed by the appellant on 06.03.2005, had
 the allegations being true without any exaggeration and
 serious in nature an ordinary prudent person would have
 lodged a complaint immediately, but in the facts of the
 present case no complaint was lodged immediately, in fact
 efforts were made to reconcile. It was only when all the
 efforts for reconciliation went in vain then a complaint was
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 40 of 47. lodged on 10.05.2007. It is herself stated by PW1 in her
 examination-in-chief as under: - PW1/K (OSR), 8 photographs of engagement and
 marriage are Ex PW1/L (colly), copy of rent receipt Ex.
 PW1/M (colly), copy of passbook is Ex. PW1/N (OSR)
 (colly), copy of interview call letter of Smt. Anita Ahirwar
 Mark X-1, Copy of ITR of Deepak Chandra Ex. PW1/0 (4
 pages) (OSR) (colly), copy of khatooni is Mark X-2 (3
 pages) (colly). In view of the physical and mental torture by my
 husband, father in law, mother in law and brother in law
 which I have stated in my complaints, desertion by my
 husband and not returning my istridhan which are still in
 the custody of my husband and in-laws and I have
 suffered very much." 85. This Court is unable to understand when appellant no. 1 was
 not a fit person to co-habit with and the life of respondent
 no. 2 was so miserable so as to constitute the offence of
 cruelty then why did continuous efforts of reconciliation
 were made by respondent no. 2 and her family. If the
 conduct of appellant no. 1 and appellant no. 2 was such as
 could have posed threat to the life of respondent no. 2 and
 her child, why was she willing to reside with appellant no. 1. Not just that, the appellant no. 1 had travelled to Canada
 in July 2010 after lodging another complaint on 27.08.2008,
 to propose co-habitation, which proposal was also rejected
 by the appellant no.1. This conduct of respondent no. 2 is
 not in conformity with the allegations made by her against
 appellant no.1 and appellant no. 2. It appears that the
 complaints dated 10.05.2007 and 27.08.2008 were pressed
 upon by the respondent no.2 to take revenge and vengeance
 when respondent no. 2 could see that her relationship with
 appellant no. 1 has reached beyond repair. PW4, PW8 and

CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 43 of 47. PW9 are bound to support PW1 being her blood relations
 and they could not have accepted the broken marriage of
 PW1. 86. The testimony of PW6 is totally ignored by the Ld. Trial
 Court. PW6 was the person who was involved in marriage
 talks of appellant no.1 and respondent no. 2. He was known
 to the father of respondent no.2 since 1954 and took active
 part in the reconciliation meetings. It is stated by him that he
 was aware about the strained relations between appellant
 no.1 and respondent no. 2 and had therefore, made efforts
 for reconciliation but no reconciliation could take place. He
 during his cross-examination also stated the no dowry
 demand at the time of wedding and after the marriage was
 made within his knowledge, meaning thereby that PW6 who
 is known/close to the family of respondent no. 2 for more
 than 50 years, who actively participated in
 mediation/reconciliation between the respondent no. 2 and
 appellant no.1 did not have knowledge about dowry
 demands. This casts serious doubts upon the veracity of the
 allegations made by PW1. In Indian society, it is generally
 known that to save marriage females do suffer atrocities
 from husband and in-laws, but this is not true in all cases
 and cannot be generalized in every situation especially
 where female is independent and educated. The conduct of
 respondent no. 2 is questionable at one particular instance,
 where she said that appellant no. 1 had held the child in
 balcony and threatened that he will drop the child. It is
 possible that as a wife respondent no. 2 was tolerating cruel
 behavior of appellant no. 1 and appellant no. 2 but when it
 comes to safety of her child, no mother would risk the same
 for a marriage. And that incident was so grave that any
CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 44 of 47. female ought to have registered a complaint, after all it was
 about life of 6 days old child. 87. Reliance is placed upon the judgment of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India in Rajesh Chaddha Vs. State of
 Uttar Pradesh (2025 SCC Online SC 1094) it was held as
 under: - 88. Also, in another recent judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court
 of India titled Jayedeepsinh Pravinsinh Chavda and Others
 Vs. State of Gujarat , (2024 INSC 960), and Digamabar Vs.
 State of Maharashtra (2024 INSC 1019). It was observed as
 under: - 89. In the present case, it is clear that 'cruelty' is not enough to
 constitute the offence. It must be done with the intention to
 cause grave injury or drive the victim to commit suicide or
 inflict grave injury to herself. In the present case, the
 allegations levelled in the FIR do not reveal the existence of
 such cruelty. The prosecution could not also establish that
 respondent no. 2 was subjected to cruelty to meet unlawful
 dowry demands, as the same has been disputed by
 independent witness PW6. CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 46 of 47. 90. The allegations against appellant no. 2 are vague and
 omnibus in nature and in reliance of Dara Singh (supra), the
 conviction against appellant no. 2 cannot be sustained. 91. For the abovesaid reasons, the appeal is allowed. Resultantly, impugned judgment of conviction dated
 31.07.2023 and impugned order on sentence dated
 25.10.2023 passed by Ld. MM (Mahila Court-01), South-
 West District, Dwarka Courts, New Delhi, in case bearing
 FIR No. 106/08 of PS Nanakpura, are set aside and
 appellants Mukhtiar Singh and Satender Partap Singh are
 acquitted in the said case. Appellants are directed to furnish
 bonds in terms of Section 437A CrPC (481 BNSS) in the
 sum of Rs.10,000/- each before Ld. Trial/Successor Court
 within one week from today. Copy of this judgment be given dasti to appellants free
of cost. TCR alongwith copy of this judgment be sent to
concerned Ld. Trial/Successor Court for information and
compliance. The Criminal Appeal alongwith pending application, if
any, stands disposed of. Appeal file be consigned to record room after due
compliance. (SHIVALI BANSAL)
Announced in the open ASJ-02, DWARKA COURTS,
Court on 29.08.2025. S-W DISTRICT, NEW DELHI

CA No. 626/23. Mukhtiyar Singh & Another Vs. State & Another . Page No. 47 of 47.