France, Spain, Italy, Denmark, and Greece will test the blueprint of an age verification app aimed at safeguarding children from harmful content on the internet, the European Commission (EC) announced on July 14. Notably, the age verification app is customisable, allowing different nations to set tailor-made controls.

This move comes in the wake of similar steps taken by Australia and the United States to protect underage children. For instance, Australia has banned users under the age of 16 from accessing social media. Meanwhile, many states in the US have sued Meta over its addictive social media platforms , which are allegedly fuelling a mental health crisis among the country’s youth.

The EC also plans to launch an action plan focused on cyberbullying, in addition to an inquiry into social media’s impact on mental health. “With one in three internet users being a child accessing platforms at increasingly younger ages, it’s vital to ensure their safety,” remarked Henna Virkkunen, the EC’s Executive Vice-President for Tech Sovereignty, Security, and Democracy.

The EC has published guidelines for online platforms to ensure a safer online environment for all minor internet users within the European Union (EU). These guidelines aim to protect underage users from risks such as grooming, addictive behaviours, and harmful commercial practices. Some of the key areas they address include:

1) Privacy And Safety By Default : Children’s accounts should be private by default, to protect their personal information, data, and social media content, and to minimise unwanted contact from strangers.

2) Modifying Platforms’ Recommender Systems : This aims to protect children from encountering harmful content or getting stuck in specific content loops. The EC expects recommender systems to prioritise direct feedback from minors instead of relying solely on browsing behaviour.

3) Enabling Children To Block And Mute Users : This ensures that children are not added to groups without explicit consent. This further helps in preventing cyberbullying.

4) Prohibiting Downloads Or Screenshots Of Minors’ Content : This prevents the unwanted distribution of sexualised or intimate content and the resulting risks of extortion or blackmail.

5) Reducing Excessive Use of Social Media Platforms : This includes disabling features that encourage excessive social media use, such as communication “streaks”, read receipts, autoplay, and push notifications by default. It also involves removing persuasive design features aimed predominantly at engagement and implementing safeguards around AI chatbots integrated into platforms.

6) Protecting Children From Exploitation Online : Platforms must ensure that children’s lack of commercial literacy is not exploited. Children should not be vulnerable to manipulative commercial practices that lead to unwanted spending or addictive behaviours.

7) Enhancing Moderation and Reporting Tools :  Platforms should introduce stronger moderation and reporting tools, offer prompt feedback, and include minimal requirements for parental controls.

The EC’s initiatives, both the age verification app and the new guidelines for online platforms, represent a progressive step toward safeguarding children’s interests within the online ecosystem of the EU bloc.

This development builds on ongoing investigations by EU regulators into platforms like Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, and X (formerly Twitter) to determine compliance with the EU’s Digital Services Act (DSA).

However, many countries around the world are still grappling with teenage users accessing content that may be inappropriate for their age. For example, the UK’s communications regulator , Ofcom, recently introduced legally binding rules requiring online platforms to create age-appropriate experiences for children.

And as mentioned earlier, Australia and the US are also battling against the online social media realm to protect children from harmful content they may accidentally come across. Social media companies must take a proactive stance and openly support laws or policies focused on child protection.

They should take the lead in working with governments and lawmakers to address inappropriate content for children, rather than waiting for regulations to take effect.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event