A.K. SIKRI, J. The parties to this lis, who are brothers, had entered
into a deed of partnership dated 01.04.1994 for carrying on hotel business
and this partnership firm has been running a hotel with the name 'Hotel
Arunagiri' located at Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu. Some disputes arose out of
the said partnership deed between the parties. Partnership Deed contains
an arbitration clause i.e. Clause (8) which stipulates resolution of
disputes by means of arbitration. 2. Notwithstanding the same, the respondents herein have filed a civil
suit before the Court of Ist Additional District Munsif Court, Tirunelveli,
Madurai (Tamil Nadu) seeking a declaration that as partners they are
entitled to participate in the administration of the said hotel. Relief of
permanent injunction restraining the defendant (appellant herein) from
interfering with their right to participate in the administration of the
hotel has also been sought. This suit was filed in the year 2012. The
appellant, after receiving the summons in the said suit, moved the
application under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Act') raising an objection to the
maintainability of the suit in view of arbitration agreement between the
parties as contained in clause (8) of the Partnership Deed dated 01.04.1994
and submitted that as per the provisions of Section 8 of the Act, it is
mandatory for the Court to refer the dispute to the arbitrator. This
application was resisted by the respondents with the submission that since
acts of fraud were attributed to the appellant by the
plaintiffs/respondents, such serious allegations of fraud could not be
adjudicated upon by the Arbitral Tribunal and the appropriate remedy was to
approach the civil court by filing a suit, and that was exactly done by the
respondents. For this purpose, the respondents had relied upon the
judgment of this Court in the case of N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers
and Others[1]. This plea of the respondents was sought to be controverted
by the appellant by arguing that aforesaid judgment was found to be per
incuriam by this Court in Swiss Timing Ltd. v. Commonwealth Games 2010
Organising Committee[2], wherein the application under Section 11 of the
Act was allowed holding that such a plea of fraud can be adequately taken
care of even by the arbitrator. It was, thus, argued that the parties were
bound by the arbitration agreement and there was no reason to file the
civil suit. The trial court, however, dismissed the application of the
appellant herein by its order dated 25.04.2014, relying upon the judgment
in N. Radhakrishnan. Feeling aggrieved by this order, the appellant preferred revision petition
before the High Court repeating his contention that judgment in N.
Radhakrishnan was held to be per incuriam and, therefore, trial court had
committed jurisdictional error in rejecting the application of the
appellant under Section 8 of the Act. Brushing aside this plea, the High
Court has also chosen to go by the dicta laid down in N. Radhakrishnan with
the observations that Swiss Timing Ltd. is the order passed by a single
Judge of this Court under Section 11 of the Act whereas judgment in N.
Radhakrishnan is rendered by a Division Bench of two Hon. Judges of this
Court, which is binding on the High Court. Whether the aforesaid view of the High Court in following
the dicta laid down in the case of N. Radhakrishnan, in the facts of this
case, is correct or not, is the question that needs determination in the
instant appeal. Seminal facts in the context in which the issue falls for determination
have already been taken note of above. However, few more facts need to be
added to the aforesaid chronology, particularly, the nature of plea of
fraud taken in the suit filed by the respondents. The respondents are four in number who are brothers of the
appellant. These five brothers are the partners. Their father A.
Arunagiri was also a partner along with them who died on 28.04.2009. These
six partners had 1/6th share each in the partnership business. Disputes
arose between the brothers after the demise of their father. It is the
allegation of the respondents, as contained in the plaint, that the subject
matter of the suit 'Hotel Arunagiri' was managed and administered by their
father in a disciplined manner till his death. After his death, the
appellant being the eldest brother wanted to take the administration of
'Hotel Arunagiri' with the assurance that he will be following the foot
prints of his father. The respondents had no other alternative except to
accept the said proposal in good faith. It was, at that time resolved by
all the brothers, that the daily collection of money from 'Hotel Arunagiri'
should be deposited on the very next day into the hotel Current Account
No.23 maintained with the Indian Overseas Bank, Tirunelveli Junction. It
was agreed that about rupees ten to fifteen thousand may be kept as cash
for urgent expenses. The respondents reposed confidence with the appellant
and believed that his administration would never be detrimental to the
smooth running of the business. On the aforesaid understanding,
administration of the hotel was taken over by the appellant. But he did
not adhere to the said understanding and failed to deposit day to day
collection into the bank account as promised. It is also agged that the
appellant, fraudulently, signed and issued a cheque for Rs.10,00,050/-
dated 17.06.2010 from the bank account in the name of 'Hotel Arunagiri' in
favour of his son without the knowledge and consent of the other partners
and in this manner, the money was siphoned off and misappropriated from the
common fund. It is further alleged that the appellant kept the hotel
account books with him and did not show it to the respondents for their
examination. The respondents sent legal notices but it did not deter the
appellant to continue to act in the same manner by not depositing the day
to day collections in the account. It is also alleged that appellant's
wife's younger brother one Dhanapalraj was a member of Bar Council of Tamil
Nadu and was also a Vice-Chairman of All India Bar Council, New Delhi. In
Chennai, the Central Bureau of Investigation (C.B.I.) raided the houses of
the said Dhanapalraj and his co-brother Chandrasekaran and seized
Rs.45,00,000/- cash from them. As Dhanapalraj was aware of the disputes
between the appellant and the respondents in respect of the 'Hotel
Arunagiri', a false statement has been given by him before C.B.I. to the
effect that the seized money of Rs.45 lakhs belonged to 'Hotel Arunagiri'.
It is reliably learned that the appellant had also, on receipt of summons,
appeared before the C.B.I. in New Delhi and given a false statement as if
the said seized money of Rs.45 lakhs belonged to 'Hotel Arunagiri' which
was taken to Chennai to purchase a property. This led to the issuance of
another notice dated 22.01.2011 by the third respondent to the appellant
stating that the money seized by the C.B.I. belong only to Dhanpalaraj and
not 'Hotel Arunagiri'. On the basis of the aforesaid allegations, which
are relevant and material for the purposes of this appeal, following
reliefs are sought in the suit filed by the respondents: The two courts below have preferred to adopt the dicta laid down in N.
Radhakrishnan while dismissing the application of the appellant under Section 8 of the Act holding that as there are serious allegations as to
fraud and malpractices committed by the appellant in respect of the
finances of the partnership firm and the case does not warrant to be tried
and decided by the arbitrator and a civil court would be more competent
which has the requisite means to decide such complicated matter. In this
backdrop, it would be appropriate to revisit the law on this aspect before
adverting to the question as to whether the approach of the High Court was
correct in following the judgment in N. Radhakrishnan in the instant case. In this behalf, we have to begin our discussion with the pertinent
observation that insofar as the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is
concerned, it does not make any specific provision excluding any category
of disputes terming them to be non-arbitrable. Number of pronouncements
have been rendered laying down the scope of judicial intervention, in cases
where there is an arbitration clause, with clear and unambiguous message
that in such an event judicial intervention would be very limited and
minimal. However, the Act contains provisions for challenging the arbitral
awards. These provisions are Section 34 and Section 48 of the Act. Section 34(2)(b) and Section 48(2) of the Act, inter alia, provide that an
arbitral award may be set aside if the Court finds that the 'subject matter
of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law
for the time being in force.' Even when such a provision is interpreted,
what is to be shown is that there is a law which makes subject matter of a
dispute incapable of settlement by arbitration. The aforesaid position in
law has been culled out from the combined readings of Sections 5 , 16 and 34 of the Act. When arbitration proceedings are triggered by one of the
parties because of the existence of an arbitration agreement between them, Section 5 of the Act, by a non-obstante clause, provides a clear message
that there should not be any judicial intervention at that stage scuttling
the arbitration proceedings. Even if the other party has objection to
initiation of such arbitration proceedings on the ground that there is no
arbitration agreement or validity of the arbitration clause or the
competence of the Arbitral Tribunal is challenged, Section 16 , in clear
terms, stipulates that such objections are to be raised before the Arbitral
Tribunal itself which is to decide, in the first instance, whether there is
any substance in questioning the validity of the arbitration proceedings on
any of the aforesaid grounds. It follows that the party is not allowed to
rush to the Court for an adjudication. Even after the Arbitral Tribunal
rules on its jurisdiction and decides that arbitration clause is valid or
the Arbitral Tribunal is legally constituted, the aggrieved party has to
wait till the final award is pronounced and only at that stage the
aggrieved party is allowed to raise such objection before the Court in
proceedings under Section 34 of the Act while challenging the arbitral
award. The aforesaid scheme of the Act is succinctly brought out in the
following discussion by this Court in Kvaerner Cementation India Ltd. v.
Bajranglal Agarwal & Anr. [3]: What would be the position in case a suit is filed by the plaintiff and in
the said suit the defendant files an application under Section 8 of the Act
questioning the maintainability of the suit on the ground that parties had
agreed to settle the disputes through the means of arbitration having
regard to the existence of an arbitration agreement between them? Obviously, in such a case, the Court is to pronounce upon
arbitrability or non-arbitrability of the disputes. In the instant case, there is no dispute about the arbitration agreement
inasmuch as there is a specific arbitration clause in the partnership deed.
 However, the question is as to whether the dispute raised by the
respondent in the suit is incapable of settlement through arbitration. As
pointed out above, the Act does not make any provision excluding any
category of disputes treating them as non-arbitrable. Notwithstanding the
above, the Courts have held that certain kinds of disputes may not be
capable of adjudication through the means of arbitration. The Courts have
held that certain disputes like criminal offences of a public nature,
disputes arising out of illegal agreements and disputes relating to status,
such as divorce, cannot be referred to arbitration. Following categories
of disputes are generally treated as non-arbitrable[4]: 'Fraud' is a knowing misrepresentation of the truth or concealment of a
material fact to induce another to act to his detriment. Fraud can be of
diffeent forms and hues. Its ingredients are an intention to deceive, use
of unfair means, deliberate concealment of material facts, or abuse of
position of confidence. The Black's Law Dictionary defines 'fraud' as a
concealment or false representation through a statement or conduct that
injures another who relies on it[5]. However, the moot question here which
has to be addressed would be as to whether mere allegation of fraud by one
party against the other would be sufficient to exclude the subject matter
of dispute from arbitration and decision thereof necessary by the civil
court. In Abdul Kadir Shamsuddin Bubere v. Madhav Prabhakar Oak [6], serious
allegations of fraud were held by the Court to be a sufficient ground for
not making a reference to arbitration. Reliance in that regard was placed
by the Court on a decision of the Chancery Division in Russell v.
Russell[7]. That was a case where a notice for the dissolution of a
partnership was issued by one of the partners, upon which the other partner
brought an action alleging various charges of fraud, and sought a
declaration that the notice of dissolution was void. The partner who was
charged with fraud sought reference of the disputes to arbitration. The
Court held that in a case where fraud is charged, the Court will in general
refuse to send the dispute to arbitration. But where the objection to
arbitration is by a party charging the fraud, the Court will not
necessarily accede to it and would never do so unless a prima facie case of
fraud is proved. The aforesaid judgment was followed by this Court in N. Radhakrishnan while
considering the matter under the present Act. In that case, the respondent
had instituted a suit against the appellant, upon which the appellant filed
an application under Section 8 of the Act. The applicant made serious
allegations against the respondents of having committed malpractices in the
account books, and manipulation of the finances of the partnership firm.
This Court held that such a case cannot be properly dealt with by the
arbitrator, and ought to be settled by the Court, through detailed evidence
led by both parties. When the case involves serious allegations of fraud, the dicta contained in
the aforesaid judgments would be understandable. However, at the same
time, mere allegation of fraud in the pleadings by one party against the
other cannot be a ground to hold that the matter is incapable of settlement
by arbitration and should be decided by the civil court. The allegations
of fraud should be such that not only these allegations are serious that in
normal course these may even constitute criminal offence, they are also
complex in nature and the decision on these issues demand extensive
evidence for which civil court should appear to be more appropriate forum
than the Arbitral Tribunal. Otherwise, it may become a convenient mode of
avoiding the process of arbitration by simply using the device of making
allegations of fraud and pleading that issue of fraud needs to be decided
by the civil court. The judgment in N. Radhakrishnan does not touch upon
this aspect and said decision is rendered after finding that allegations of
fraud were of serious nature. As noted above, in Swiss Timing Ltd. case, single Judge of this Court while
dealing with the same issue in an application under Section 11 of the Act
treated the judgment in N. Radhakrishnan as per incuriam by referring to
the other judgments in the case of P. Anand Gajapathi Raju v. P.V.G.
Raju [8] and Hindustan Petroleum Corpn. Ltd. v. Pinkcity Midway
Petroleums [9]. Two reasons were given in support which can be found in
para 21 of the judgment which makes the following reading: As we are concerned with the first facet of the arbitrability of dispute,
on this aspect the Court pointed out that in those cases where the subject
matter falls exclusively within the domain of public fora, viz. the Courts,
such disputes would be non-arbitrable and cannot be decided by the Arbitral
Tribunal but by the Courts alone. The justification and rationale given
for adjudicating such disputes through the process of Courts, i.e. public
fora, and not by Arbitral Tribunals, which is a private forum, is given by
the court in the following manner: In this context, a 2 judge bench of the Supreme Court, while adjudicating
on an application under section 8 of the Act, in Radhakrishnan v. Maestro
Engineers , 2010 1 SCC 72 held that an issue of 28 fraud is not arbitrable. This decision was ostensibly based on the decision of the three judge bench
of the Supreme Court in Abdul Qadir v. Madhav Prabhakar , AIR 1962 SC 406. However, the said 3 judge bench decision (which was based on the finding in Russel v. Russel [1880 14 Ch.D 471]) is only an authority for the
proposition that a party against whom an allegation of fraud is made in a
public forum, has a right to defend himself in that public forum. Yet,
following Radhakrishnan, it appears that issues of fraud are not
arbitrable. 51. A distinction has also been made by certain High Courts between a
serious issue of fraud and a mere allegation of fraud and the former has
been held to be not arbitrable ( SeeIvory Properties and Hotels Private Ltd
v. Nusli Neville Wadia , 2011 (2) Arb LR 479 (Bom); CS Ravishankar v. CK
Ravishankar, 2011 (6) Kar LJ 417). The Supreme Court in Meguin GMBH v.
Nandan Petrochem Ltd., 2007 (5) R.A.J 239 (SC), in the context of an
application filed under section 11 has gone ahead and appointed an
arbitrator even though issues of fraud were involved. Recently, the Supreme
Court in its judgment in Swiss Timing Ltd v. Organising Committee, Arb .
Pet. No. 34/2013 dated 28.05.2014, in a similar case of exercising
jurisdiction under section 11 , held that the judgment in Radhakrishnan is
per incuriam and, therefore, not good law.”

A perusal of the aforesaid two paragraphs brings into fore that the Law
Commission has recognized that in cases of serious fraud, courts have
entertained civil suits. Secondly, it has tried to make a distinction in
cases where there are allegations of serious fraud and fraud simplicitor.
It, thus, follows that those cases where there are serious allegations of
fraud, they are to be treated as non-arbitrable and it is only the civil
court which should decide such matters. However, where there are
allegations of fraud simplicitor and such allegations are merely alleged,
we are of the opinion it may not be necessary to nullify the effect of the
arbitration agreement between the parties as such issues can be determined
by the Arbitral Tribunal. Before we apply the aforesaid test to the facts of the present case, a word
on the observations in Swiss Timing Ltd. 's case to the effect that judgment
of N. Radhakrishnan was per incuriam, is warranted. In fact, we do not
have to labour on this aspect as this task is already undertaken by this
Court in State of West Bengal & Ors. v. Associated Contractors [11]. It has
been clarified in the aforesaid case that Swiss Timings Ltd. was a judgment
rendered while dealing with Section 11(6) of the Act and Section 11 essentially confers power on the Chief Judge of India or the Chief Justice
of the High Court as a designate to appoint an arbitrator, which power has
been exercised by another Hon'ble Judge as a delegate of the Chief Justice. This power of appointment of an arbitrator under Section 11 by the Court,
notwithstanding the fact that it has been held in SBP & Co. v. Patel
Engineering Ltd. & Anr.[12] as a judicial power, cannot be deemed to have
precedential value and, therefore, it cannot be deemed to have overruled
the proposition of law laid down in N.Radhakrishnan. In view of our aforesaid discussions, we are of the opinion that mere
allegation of fraud simplicitor may not be a ground to nullify the effect
of arbitration agreement between the parties. It is only in those cases
where the Court, while dealing with Section 8 of the Act, finds that there
are very serious allegations of fraud which make a virtual case of criminal
offence or where allegations of fraud are so complicated that it becomes
absolutely essential that such complex issues can be decided only by civil
court on the appreciation of the voluminous evidence that needs to be
produced, the Court can sidetrack the agreement by dismissing application
under Section 8 and proceed with the suit on merits. It can be so done
also in those cases where there are serious allegations of
forgery/fabrication of documents in support of the plea of fraud or where
fraud is alleged against the arbitration provision itself or is of such a
nature that permeates the entire contract, including the agreement to
arbitrate, meaning thereby in those cases where fraud goes to the validity
of the contract itself of the entire contract which contains the
arbitration clause or the validity of the arbitration clause itself.
Reverse position thereof would be that where there are simple allegations
of fraud touching upon the internal affairs of the party inter se and it
has no implication in the public domain, the arbitration clause need not be
avoided and the parties can be relegated to arbitration. While dealing
with such an issue in an application under Section 8 of the Act, the focus
of the Court has to be on the question as to whether jurisdiction of the
Court has been ousted instead of focusing on the issue as to whether the
Court has jurisdiction or not. It has to be kept in mind that insofar as
the statutory scheme of the Act is concerned, it does not specifically
exclude any category of cases as non-arbitrable. Such categories of non-
arbitrable subjects are carved out by the Courts, keeping in mind the
principle of common law that certain disputes which are of public nature,
etc. are not capable of adjudication and settlement by arbitration and for
resolution of such disputes, Courts, i.e. public for a, are better suited
than a private forum of arbitration. Therefore, the inquiry of the Court,
while dealing with an application under Section 8 of the Act, should be on
the aforesaid aspect, viz. whether the nature of dispute is such that it
cannot be referred to arbitration, even if there is an arbitration
agreement between the parties. When the case of fraud is set up by one of
the parties and on that basis that party wants to wriggle out of that
arbitration agreement, a strict and meticulous inquiry into the allegations
of fraud is needed and only when the Court is satisfied that the
allegations are of serious and complicated nature that it would be more
appropriate for the Court to deal with the subject matter rather than
relegating the parties to arbitration, then alone such an application under Section 8 should be rejected. When we apply the aforesaid principles to the facts of this case, we find
that the only allegation of fraud that is levelled is that the appellant
had signed and issued a cheque of Rs. 10,00,050/- dated 17.06.2010 of
'Hotel Arunagiri' in favour of his son without the knowledge and consent of
the other partners i.e. the respondents. It is a mere matter of accounts
which can be looked into and found out even by the arbitrator. It does not
involve any complex issue. If such a cheque is issued from the hotel
account by the appellant in favour of his son, it is easy to prove the same
and then the onus is upon the appellant to show as to what was the reason
for giving that amount from the partnership firm to his son and he will
have to account for the same. Likewise, the allegation of the respondents
that daily collections are not deposited in the bank accounts is to be
proved by the respondents which is again a matter of accounts. Other allegation, which appears to be serious, is about the
C.B.I. raid at the house of Dhanapalraj from where cash in the sum of Rs.45
lakhs was seized. Interestingly, though the appellant has taken the
position that this cash belongs to 'Hotel Arunagiri', they are the
respondents who have themselves alleged that the money belonged to
Dhanapalraj and not to 'Hotel Arunagiri'. In view of the aforesaid stand
taken by the respondents/plaintiffs themselves, this issue does not fall
for consideration and, therefore, is not to be gone by the Arbitral
Tribunal. We, therefore, are of the opinion that the allegations of purported fraud
were not so serious which cannot be taken care of by the arbitrator. The
Courts below, therefore, fell in error in rejecting the application of the
appellant under Section 8 of the Act. Reversing these judgments, we allow
this appeal and as a consequence, application filed by the appellant under Section 8 in the suit is allowed thereby relegating the parties to the
arbitration. At the same time, in order to save the time and having regard to the nature
of the dispute, this Court appoints Hon'ble Ms. Justice Prabha Sridevan, a
retired Judge of the Madras High Court, as the arbitrator. The arbitrator
shall fix her own fee. No costs. .............................................J.

 (A.K. SIKRI)

 .............................................J.

 (DR. D.Y. CHANDRACHUD)

NEW DELHI; OCTOBER 04, 2016. REPORTABLE
 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL Nos. 8245-8246 OF 2016
 [Arising out of SLP(C)Nos. 16250-16251 of 2015]

AYYASAMY .....APPELLANT

 Versus

PARAMASIVAM & ORS. .....RESPONDENTS

 J U D G M E N T

Dr D Y CHANDRACHUD, J

1 I have had the benefit of the lucid exposition of law in the judgment
of my learned brother Justice A K Sikri. I agree with the reasons
contained in His Lordship’s judgment while adding some of my own. 2 The issue which arises in these proceedings has generated a
considerable degree of uncertainty in the law of arbitration in India.
This is an area of law where the intervention of this Court is needed to
ensure that a cloud on the efficacy of arbitral proceedings to resolve
issues of fraud is resolved conclusively. The litigative uncertainty which
the discourse has produced is best set at rest for nothing is as
destructive of legitimate commercial expectations than a state of unsettled
legal precept. 3 The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 does not in specific
terms exclude any category of disputes – civil or commercial – from
arbitrability. Intrinsic legislative material is in fact to the contrary. Section 8 contains a mandate that where an action is brought before a
judicial authority in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration
agreement, parties shall be referred by it to arbitration, if a party to or
a person claiming through a party to the arbitration agreement applies not
later than the date of submitting the first statement on the substance of
the dispute. The only exception is where the authority finds prima facie
that there is no valid arbitration agreement. Section 8 contains a
positive mandate and obligates the judicial authority to refer parties to
arbitration in terms of the arbitration agreement. While dispensing with
the element of judicial discretion, the statute imposes an affirmative
obligation on every judicial authority to hold down parties to the terms of
the agreement entered into between them to refer disputes to arbitration. Article 8 of the UNCITRAL Model Law enabled a court to decline to refer
parties to arbitration if it is found that the arbitration agreement is
null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed. Section 8 of
the Act of 1996 has made a departure which is indicative of the wide reach
and ambit of the statutory mandate. Section 8 uses the expansive
expression “judicial authority” rather than “court” and the words “unless
it finds that the agreement is null and void, inoperative and incapable of
being performed” do not find place in Section 8 . 4 Section 16 empowers the arbitral tribunal to rule upon its own
jurisdiction, including ruling on any objection with respect to the
existence or validity of an arbitration agreement. Section 16(1)(b) stipulates that a decision by the arbitral tribunal that a contract is null
and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration
clause. Hence, the invalidity of the contract between the parties does not
render the arbitration agreement invalid as a consequence of law. This
recognises as inhering in the arbitrator the jurisdiction to consider
whether the main contract (other than the arbitration clause) is null and
void. The arbitration agreement survives for determining whether the
contract in which the arbitration clause is embodied is null and void,
which would include voidability on the ground of fraud. The severability
of the arbitration agreement is a doctrinal development of crucial
significance. For, it leaves the adjudicatory power of the arbitral
tribunal unaffected, over any objection that the main contract between the
parties is affected by fraud or undue influence. 5 Section 34(2)(b) and Section 48(2) provide as one of the grounds
for challenge to or in respect of the enforceability of an award that “the
subject matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration
under the law for the time being in force”. Clearly, therefore, the Act
contemplates and acknowledges that before it can be held that a particular
subject matter is not capable of settlement by arbitration, such a
consequence must arise under the law for the time being in force. 6 Ordinarily every civil or commercial dispute whether based on
contract or otherwise which is capable of being decided by a civil court is
in principle capable of being adjudicated upon and resolved by arbitration
“subject to the dispute being governed by the arbitration agreement”
unless the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal is excluded either
expressly or by necessary implication. In Booz-Allen and Hamilton Inc. v.
SBI Home Finance Ltd. [13], this Court held that adjudication of certain
categories of proceedings is reserved by the legislature exclusively for
public fora as a matter of public policy. Certain other categories of
cases, though not exclusively reserved for adjudication by courts and
tribunals may by necessary implication stand excluded from the purview of
private fora. This Court set down certain examples of non-arbitrable
disputes such as: This Court held that this class of actions operates in rem, which is a
right exercisable against the world at large as contrasted with a right in
personam which is an interest protected against specified individuals. All
disputes relating to rights in personam are considered to be amenable to
arbitration while rights in rem are required to be adjudicated by courts
and public tribunals. The enforcement of a mortgage has been held to be a
right in rem for which proceedings in arbitration would not be
maintainable. In Vimal Kishore Shah v. Jayesh Dinesh Shah [14], this Court
added a seventh category of cases to the six non-arbitrable categories set
out in Booz Allen, namely, disputes relating to trusts, trustees and
beneficiaries arising out of a trust deed and the Trust Act. 7 In Natraj Studios (P) Ltd. v. Navrang Studios [15], a Bench of three
judges of this Court dealt with the issue as to whether a dispute between a
landlord and a tenant falling within the exclusive domain of the Court of
Small Causes at Mumbai, to the exclusion of the civil court, is
arbitrable. This Court held that the Bombay Rent Act is a welfare
legislation aimed at a definite social objective of protecting tenants as a
matter of public policy. The conferment of exclusive jurisdiction on
certain courts was in pursuance of a specific social objective which the
legislation seeks to achieve. Public policy, this Court held, requires
that parties cannot be allowed to contract out of the legislative mandate
which requires certain kinds of disputes to be resolved by special courts
constituted under rent control legislation. Hence, arbitration agreements
between parties whose rights are regulated by rent control legislation
would not be recognised by a court of law. 8 In regard to disputes under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 , this
Court held in Skypak Courier Ltd. v. Tata Chemical Ltd [16], that the
existence of an arbitration clause will not be a bar to the entertainment
of a complaint by a forum under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 since the
remedy provided under the law is in addition to the provisions of any other
law for the time being in force. This was reiterated in National Seeds
Corporation Ltd. v. M. Madhusudhan Reddy [17], and Rosedale Developers Pvt.
Ltd. v. Aghore Bhattacharya[18]. It was observed that the remedy is merely
optional and is in addition to and not in derogation of the provisions of
any other law for the time being in force. 9 Hence, in addition to various classes of disputes which are generally
considered by the courts as appropriate for decision by public fora, there
are classes of disputes which fall within the exclusive domain of special
fora under legislation which confers exclusive jurisdiction to the
exclusion of an ordinarily civil court. That such disputes are not
arbitrable dovetails with the general principle that a dispute which is
capable of adjudication by an ordinary civil court is also capable of being
resolved by arbitration. However, if the jurisdiction of an ordinary civil
court is excluded by the conferment of exclusive jurisdiction on a
specified court or tribunal as a matter of public policy such a dispute
would not then be capable of resolution by arbitration. 10 The judgment of a two judge Bench of this Court in N. Radhakrishnan
v. Maestro Engineers[19], arose out of a partnership dispute. A suit was
instituted before the civil court for declaratory and injunctive reliefs.
An application under Section 8 of the Act of 1996 was rejected by the trial
court and the order of rejection was affirmed in revision by the High
Court. The submission of the appellant that the dispute between the
partners ought to have been referred to arbitration was met with the
objection that the appellant having raised issues relating to
misappropriation of funds and malpractices, these were matters which ought
to be resolved by a civil court. Affirming the judgment of the High
Court, a Bench of two judges of this Court held as follows: 11 In P. Anand Gajapathi Raju v. P.V.G. Raju (Dead )[20], this Court held
that the language of Section 8 is peremptory in nature. Hence, where there
is an arbitration agreement, it is obligatory for the court to refer
parties to arbitration and nothing remains to be decided in the original
action after such an application is made, except to refer the dispute to an
arbitrator. The judgment in Abdul Kadir came up for consideration before a
Bench of two learned judges in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v.
Pinkcity Midway Petroleums [21]. In that case, the appellant had appointed
the respondent as a dealer for selling its petroleum products through a
retail outlet. The dealership agreement contained an arbitration
agreement. In the course of an inspection the appellant found a breach of
the dealership agreement and sales of petroleum products were suspended.
The respondent instituted a suit before the ordinary civil court seeking
declaratory reliefs in which the appellant filed an application under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The civil court
rejected the application and the High Court in revision affirmed the view.
The submission which weighed with the High Court was that the allegation of
tampering of weights and of measurement seals could only be adjudicated
upon under the Standards of Weights and Measures (Enforcement) Act, 1985 and hence such a dispute was not arbitrable. This Court held that once the
arbitration agreement was admitted, in view of the mandatory language of Section 8 , the dispute ought to have been referred to arbitration. The
judgment of this Court dealt with the submission that since the allegations
in the case related to an element of criminal wrongdoing, the dispute was
not arbitrable. Rejecting this submission, this Court held as follows: 12 Hence, allegations of criminal wrongdoing or of statutory violation
would not detract from the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal to resolve
a dispute arising out of a civil or contractual relationship on the basis
of the jurisdiction conferred by the arbitration agreement. 13 In a more recent judgment of two judges of this Court in Sundaram
Finance Ltd. v. T. Thankam [22], the same position in regard to the mandate
of Section 8 has been reiterated. The earlier decisions in Anand Gajapathi
Raju, Pink City and in Branch Manager, Magma Leasing and Finance Ltd. v.
Potluri Madhvilata [23], emphasizing the mandate of Section 8 , have been
reaffirmed. This Court has held: 14 The position that emerges both before and after the decision in
 N. Radhakrishnan is that successive decisions of this Court have
given effect to the binding precept incorporated in Section 8 . Once there
is an arbitration agreement between the parties, a judicial authority
before whom an action is brought covering the subject matter of the
arbitration agreement is under a positive obligation to refer parties to
arbitration by enforcing the terms of the contract. There is no element of
discretion left in the court or judicial authority to obviate the
legislative mandate of compelling parties to seek recourse to arbitration.
The judgment in N. Radhakrishnan has, however, been utilised by parties
seeking a convenient ruse to avoid arbitration to raise a defence of fraud.
 First and foremost, it is necessary to emphasise that the judgment in N.
Radhakrishnan does not subscribe to the broad proposition that a mere
allegation of fraud is ground enough not to compel parties to abide by
their agreement to refer disputes to arbitration. More often than not, a
bogey of fraud is set forth if only to plead that the dispute cannot be
arbitrated upon. To allow such a plea would be a plain misreading of the
judgment in N. Radhakrishnan. As I have noted earlier, that was a case
where the appellant who had filed an application under Section 8 faced with
a suit on a dispute in partnership had raised serious issues of criminal
wrongdoing, misappropriation of funds and malpractice on the part of the
respondent. It was in this background that this Court accepted the
submission of the respondent that the arbitrator would not be competent to
deal with matters “which involved an elaborate production of evidence to
establish the claims relating to fraud and criminal misappropriation”.
Hence, it is necessary to emphasise that as a matter of first principle,
this Court has not held that a mere allegation of fraud will exclude
arbitrability. The burden must lie heavily on a party which avoids
compliance with the obligation assumed by it to submit disputes to
arbitration to establish the dispute is not arbitrable under the law for
the time being in force. In each such case where an objection on the
ground of fraud and criminal wrongdoing is raised, it is for the judicial
authority to carefully sift through the materials for the purpose of
determining whether the defence is merely a pretext to avoid arbitration.
It is only where there is a serious issue of fraud involving criminal
wrongdoing that the exception to arbitrability carved out in N.
Radhakrishnan may come into existence. Allegations of fraud are not alien
to ordinary civil courts. Generations of judges have dealt with such
allegations in the context of civil and commercial disputes. If an
allegation of fraud can be adjudicated upon in the course of a trial before
an ordinary civil court, there is no reason or justification to exclude
such disputes from the ambit and purview of a claim in arbitration.
Parties who enter into commercial dealings and agree to a resolution of
disputes by an arbitral forum exercise an option and express a choice of a
preferred mode for the resolution of their disputes. Parties in choosing
arbitration place priority upon the speed, flexibility and expertise
inherent in arbitral adjudication. Once parties have agreed to refer
disputes to arbitration, the court must plainly discourage and
discountenance litigative strategies designed to avoid recourse to
arbitration. Any other approach would seriously place in uncertainty the
institutional efficacy of arbitration. Such a consequence must be
eschewed. 15 The position as it obtains in other jurisdictions which value
arbitration as an effective form of alternate dispute resolution is no
different. In the UK, Section 24(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1950 provided
that the court could revoke the authority of a tribunal to deal with claims
involving issues of fraud and determine those claims itself. The English
Act of 1979 provided for a stay of proceedings involving allegations of
fraud. However, under the English Arbitration Act, 1996, there is no such
restriction and the arbitral tribunal has jurisdiction to consider and rule
on issues of fraud. In Fiona Trust and Holding Corporation v. Yuri
Privalov[24], the Court of Appeal emphasised the need to make a fresh start
in imparting business efficacy to arbitral agreements. The Court of Appeal
held that: 16 The basic principle which must guide judicial decision making is that
arbitration is essentially a voluntary assumption of an obligation by
contracting parties to resolve their disputes through a private tribunal.
The intent of the parties is expressed in the terms of their agreement.
Where commercial entities and persons of business enter into such dealings,
they do so with a knowledge of the efficacy of the arbitral process. The
commercial understanding is reflected in the terms of the agreement between
the parties. The duty of the court is to impart to that commercial
understanding a sense of business efficacy. 17 Lord Hoffmann, speaking for the House of Lords in Premium Nafta
Products, placed the matter eloquently in the following observations: 18 Lord Hoffmann held that if this is the purpose underlying an
agreement to arbitrate, it would be inconceivable that parties would have
intended that some, amongst their disputes should first be resolved by a
court before they proceed to arbitration: 19 In the United States, the Supreme Court in Buckeye Check Cashing,
Inc. v. Cardegna[26], followed its earlier decisions in Prima Paint Corp.
v. Flood & Conklin Manufacturing Co.[27], and in Southland Corporation v.
Keating[28]. Justice Scalia, who delivered the judgment of the Supreme
Court, summarized the position thus:- 20 The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 , should in my view be
interpreted so as to bring in line the principles underlying its
interpretation in a manner that is consistent with prevailing approaches in
the common law world. Jurisprudence in India must evolve towards
strengthening the institutional efficacy of arbitration. Deference to a
forum chosen by parties as a complete remedy for resolving all their claims
is but part of that evolution. Minimising the intervention of courts is
again a recognition of the same principle. 21 Academic literature on the law of arbitration points in the same
direction. In Russell on Arbitration[29], the doctrine of separability has
been summarized in the following extract: 22 Similarly, Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration[30]
contains the following statement of legal position in relation to
arbitrability of matters involving fraud:- 23 The legal position has been succinctly summarized in International
Commercial Arbitration by Gary B Born[31] thus: 24 For the above reasons, I agree with the eloquent judgment of my
learned brother in coming to the conclusion that a mere allegation of fraud
in the present case was not sufficient to detract from the obligation of
the parties to submit their disputes to arbitration. I also agree with the
directions issued. A fresh line must be drawn to ensure the fulfilment of
the intent of Parliament in enacting the Act of 1996 and towards supporting
commercial understandings grounded in the faith in arbitration. .......................................J
 [Dr D Y CHANDRACHUD]

New Delhi
October 04, 2016 ----------------------- [1] (2010) 1 SCC 72
[2] (2014) 6 SCC 677
[3] (2012) 5 SCC 214
[4] See – O.P. Malhotra on 'The Law & Practice of Arbitration and
Conciliation', Third Edition, authored by Indu Malhotra. See also note 10
ibid. [5] See – Ramesh Kumar & Anr. v. Furu Ram & Anr. , (2011) 8 SCC 613 (a
decision rendered under the Arbitration Act, 1940 )
[6] AIR 1962 SC 406
[7] (1880) 14 Ch D 471
[8] (2000) 4 SCC 539
[9] (2003) 6 SCC 503
[10] (2011) 5 SCC 532
[11] (2015) 1 SCC 32
[12] (2005) 8 SCC 618 [13] [14] (2011) 5 SCC 532 [15] [16] (2016) SCC OnLine SC 825 [17] [18] (1981) 2 SCR 466 [19] [20] (2000) 5 SCC 294 [21] [22] (2012) 2 SCC 506 [23] [24] (2015 )1 WBLR (SC) 385 [25] [26] (2010) 1 SCC 72 [27] [28] (2000) 4 SCC 539 [29] [30] (2003) 6 SCC 503 [31] [32] AIR 2015 1303 [33] [34] (2009) 10 SCC 103 [35] [36] [2007] 1 All E R (COMM) 891 [37] [38] [2007] UKHL 40 [39] [40] 546 U.S. 440 (U.S.S.Ct.2006) [41] [42] 388 US 395 (U.S. S.Ct. 1967) [43] [44] 465 U. S. 1 (1984) [45] [46] (24th Edition, 2015, para 2-007) [47] [48] (6th Edition para 2.154) [49] [50] (2nd Edition Vol. I, P.846) [51] [52] (2nd Edition p.179)