The instant writ petition under Articles 226/227 of the

 Constitution of India has been filed for quashing the order dated

 11.9.1990 (Annexure P-3) passed by respondent No.2 - Financial

 Commissioner, Haryana, whereby the case of the petitioner of surplus

 area has been re-opened. Brief facts of the case are that petitioner is owner in possession

 of 765 kanals of land of 'C' category and his land was never declared

 surplus under any of the provisions of the Haryana Ceiling on Land

 Holdings Act, 1972 (hereinafter called 'the Act'), which came into force Singh Ravinder 2013.07.15 12:13 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh -2- Civil Writ Petition No.895 of 1991

 on 22.12.1972. Under Section 9 of the Act petitioner filed a declaration

 dated 13.8.1976, giving particulars of all of his land and particulars of

 his family members to the Prescribed Authority, Thanesar. The

 Prescribed Authority considered the declaration and decided the surplus

 area case of the petitioner vide order dated 16.8.1978 (Annexure P-1)

 wherein petitioner and his family members were found to be small land

 owners and it was held that the holding/area in the hands of the

 petitioner and his family members is less than their permissible area,

 therefore, no area of land owners was declared surplus. After lapse of 11

 years, State of Haryana through Under Secretary (Admn.) filed a revision

 before the Financial Commissioner on 25.7.1989 wherein the Financial

 Commissioner exercising the suo motu powers proceeded under Section

 18(6) of the Act on the ground that two sons of the petitioner i.e.

 Narinder Kumar and Rajesh Kumar were not born on or before the

 appointed date and additional units have been wrongly allotted to them.

 Narinder Kumar was born on 9.4.1972 and Rajesh Kumar born

 subsequently. Learned counsel for the petitioner vehemently contended that

 order dated 16.8.1978 (Annexure P-1) was not challenged by the

 Government. At that time, the Prescribed Authority had considered the

 entire case. Neither an appeal nor revision was filed, however, revision

 was filed by the office i.e. Under Secretary (Admn.) before the Financial

 Commissioner on 25.7.1989 under Section 18(6) of the Act praying for Singh Ravinder 2013.07.15 12:13 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh -3- Civil Writ Petition No.895 of 1991

 invoking his suo motu power to look into the legality of the order after

 calling the record from the Collector. Financial Commissioner, after

 hearing both the parties, set aside the order dated 16.8.1978 (Annexure

 P-1) and passed the order dated 11.9.1990 (Annexure P-3) holding that

 the order was vitiated by patent illegality. Learned counsel for the

 petitioner further argued that Financial Commissioner should not have

 exercised the revisional power after lapse of 11 years from the date of

 order passed by the Prescribed Authority as the State never filed an

 appeal or revision against the order. So the impugned order (Annexure

 P-3) is not sustainable in the eyes of law. Learned counsel for the petitioner relied upon the judgments

 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Loku Ram vs. State of Haryana, 1999

 ( 1) PLJ 1, State of Gujarat vs. P. Raghav , AIR 1969 SC 1297,

 Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Collie Sangham vs. K. Suresh Reddy

 and others , AIR 2003 SC 3592 and Santoshkumar Shivgonda Patil and

 others vs. Balasaheb Tukaram Shevale and others , (2009) 9 SCC 352

 to contend that suo motu power can be exercised only within a

 reasonable period although no limitation is prescribed under the Act. Learned counsel for the petitioner further relied upon the judgment of

 this Court in Smt. Dayawanti and others vs. State of Haryana and

 others , 2012(1) HLR 368 wherein identical issue was involved. Learned counsel for the State vehemently opposed the

 contentions raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner and Singh Ravinder 2013.07.15 12:13 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh -4- Civil Writ Petition No.895 of 1991

 contended that the powers of the Financial Commissioner are very wide

 under the provisions of the Act. Under Section 18(6) of the Act,

 Financial Commissioner can exercise the power suo motu at any time

 and call for the records of any proceedings or order of any authority

 subordinate to him. As such the order was legal and valid. The writ

 petition deserves to be dismissed. I have considered the rival contentions and perused the record.

 It would be appropriate to reproduce Section 18 of the Act,

 which reads as under: - section (1), may, within fifteen days from the date of the
 decision or order, prefer an appeal to the Commissioner in
 such form and manner as may be prescribed. Provided that the Commissioner may entertain the appeal
 after the expiry of the said period of fifteen days if he is
 satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause
 from filing the appeal in time. Singh Ravinder 2013.07.15 12:13 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh -5- Civil Writ Petition No.895 of 1991

 (3) x x x x x
 (4) Any person aggrieved by an order of the Collector under
 sub-section (1), may within thirty days from the date of the
 order, file a revision petition before the Commissioner so as to
 challenge the legality or propriety of such order and the
 Commissioner may pass such order as he may deem fit. The
 order of the Commissioner shall be final. (5) x x x x x
 (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing sub-
 sections, the Financial Commissioner may suo motu at any
 time call for the records of any proceedings or order of any
 authority subordinate to him for the purpose of satisfying
 himself as to the legality or propriety of such proceedings or
 order, and may pass such order in relation thereto as he may
 deem fit. (7) x x x x x
 (8) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 21 , a
 person who files an appeal or a revision against the order
 declaring his land as surplus area and the appeal or revision
 filed by him fails, shall be liable to pay, for the period he is or
 has at any time been in possession of the land declared
 surplus to which he is or was not entitled under the law, a
 licence fee equal to thirty times the land holdings tax,
 recoverable in respect of this area." No doubt, Section 18(6) of the Act uses the expression 'at any

 time' but it cannot be indefinite time. The power has to be exercised

 within reasonable time. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Gujarat (supra)has extensively considered the expression 'at any time' and after

 construing expression 'at any time' has stated the law thus: - Singh Ravinder 2013.07.15 12:13 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh -6- Further perusal of Section 18(2) of the Act clearly shows that

 it prescribes the period of 15 days for filing an appeal and Section 18(4) prescribes period of 30 days for filing revision before the Commissioner.

 The above-said sub-sections prescribe a very short period of 15 days and

 30 days, respectively. It would be unreasonable to hold that the

 Financial Commissioner has unlimited power to entertain revision after

 lapse of several years. In Ibrahimpatnam Taluk (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 has considered the identical provision and held as under: - should be unguided and arbitrary. In this view, "at any time" The Madhya Pradesh High Court in Ranveer Singh (deceased

 by L.Rs.) and another vs. State of Madhya Pradesh , AIR 2011 Madhya

 Pradesh 27, while relying upon the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court

 in Santoshkumar Shivgonda Patil (supra), has held as under: - On this basis a view is possible that for limitation purposes the

 period of limitation provided in Section 18 of the Act may have to be

 kept in view. Of course the Full Bench has also held that non fixing of

 upper limit for exercising suo motu powers, will not confer unfettered

 rights to the revisional authority to exercise this power at any moment of

 time accordingly to his whims. From the catena of decisions referred to herein above, it can be

 noticed that law is fairly well settled that the suo motu powers cannot be

 exercised by the revisional authority after the expiry of several years. It

 has been held in almost every decision that such powers should be

 exercised within a reasonable period and in most of decisions, it is held

 that it should be exercised within a few months. The view, thus, is clear

 that suo motu powers cannot be left at the whims and sweet will of the Singh Ravinder 2013.07.15 12:13 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh -10- Civil Writ Petition No.895 of 1991

 revisional authority to be exercised whenever and wherever it wants to

 do so. There is no plea raised before me on behalf of the respondents

 to explain the delay on the part of revisional authority to invoke its suo

 motu powers. From the perusal of provisions of the Act as well as the

 law settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, impugned order (Annexure P- 3) cannot be sustained as order does not disclose any reason to hold that

 period of 11 years is reasonable on the facts of the case nor it discloses

 that the power has been exercised on the facts and circumstances of the

 case within a reasonable period. For the reasons afore-mentioned, writ petition is allowed.

 Impugned order passed by Financial Commissioner (Annexure P-3) is

 hereby set aside and order of Prescribed Authority (Annexure P-1) is

 restored. No order as to costs. (Paramjeet Singh)
 Judge
 July 08, 2013
 R.S. Singh Ravinder 2013.07.15 12:13 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh