1. The appellant filed an application under the Right to Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act ) before the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), Deputy
Commissioner of Police, West Dist., Delhi Police, New Delhi, seeking information
on five points pertaining to his complaint dated 18.04.2017 submitted to SHO, P.S.
Nangloi, West Delhi, against Smt. Swati Bhardwaj for cyber stalking and Page 1 of 4 harassment, including, inter-alia, (i) the details of the investigation done in respect
of his complaint, and (ii) whether a person who has filed criminal case against
another person can contact the latter through various means to harass him and
whether the police can take cognizance of the stalking. 2. The appellant filed a second appeal before the Commission on the grounds
that the CPIO did not provide the information sought for by him vide point nos. 3
and 4 of the RTI application. The appellant requested the Commission to direct the
CPIO to provide the requisite information to him. Hearing: 3. The appellant was not present despite notice. The respondent Shri Jitendra
N. Jha, Inspector, Outer District, Delhi Police, Delhi was present in person. 4. The respondent submitted that point-wise information on point nos. 1, 2 and
5 of the RTI application has been provided to the appellant vide letter dated
02.06.2017. The respondent further submitted that the information sought for vide
point no. 4 of the RTI application is in the nature of query, which does not fall
within the definition of 'information' as per Section 2(f) of the RTI Act. As regards
point no. 3 of the RTI application, the respondent stated that in compliance with
the order of the FAA dated 07.07.2017, the appellant was informed vide letter
dated 24.07.2017 that as per report of SHO/Nangloi/Outer District, the complaint
was closed as in absence of verification of the email, which was rather old, it could
not be established that an offence was made out. Decision: Sd/- Sudhir Bhargava (सुधीर भागगव)
 Chief Information Commissioner (मुख्य सूचना आयुक्त)
 दिनांक / Date 03.04.2019

Authenticated true copy
(अनभप्रमानणत सत्यानपत प्रनत)

S. S. Rohilla (एस. एस. रोनिल्ला)
Dy. Registrar (उप-पंजीयक)
011-26186535 / [email protected] Page 3 of 4 Addresses of the parties: