R.F.Nariman,J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The appellant herein was awarded a certain construction work contract
by the DDA vide a letter of award dated 14th May, 1992. DDA was building a
colony consisting of 7,000 houses in Trilok Puri in the trans-Yamuna area.
168 Middle Income Group houses and 56 Lower Income Group houses, Grade-A
Pocket- B (balance work) was awarded for the tendered amount of
Rs.87,66,678/-. The contract was to be completed in 9 months. Admittedly,
it was ultimately completed only in 34 months, the contractor completing
166 Middle Income Group houses and 36 Lower Income Group houses. The total
value of work that was done amounted to Rs.62,84,845/-. As many as 15
claims were made by the contractor and the High Court of Delhi appointed
one Shri K.D. Bali to arbitrate the present dispute. 3. We are concerned here with claims 9, 10, 11 and 15, for these claims
have been allowed by the Arbitrator and the DDA's objections have been
dismissed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi. The
Division Bench in an appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act, 1996
has stepped in to set aside the judgment of the Single Judge and negative
these claims. We are also concerned with claims 12 and 13 which have been
scaled down by the Division Bench. 4. Claims 9, 10, 11 and 15 read as follows: Claim No.10: Claimants claim Rs.33,450/- being the hire charges of
shuttering due to stoppage of work in block no. 100 and 101. b) That by stoppage of work in these two blocks the claimants had suffered
hire charges of shuttering due to respondent's lapses and defaults. c) It is further stated that there was no justification for stoppage of
work and the action was arbitrary and totally unjust. d) That the detail of this claim has been outlined and appended separately
and the same shall from part of the statement of facts. Claim No. 11: Rs.2,00,000/- payable as damages on account of hire charges
of tools & plants and scaffolding. a) That due to prolongation of the contract on account of the respondents
the claimants had to maintain tools & plants, scaffolding etc, during the
prolongation of the contract resulting in expenditure for the same. b) That the said articles remained at site beyond the stipulated period
and the claimants suffered loss due to the said prolongation. Claim No. 15: Claimants claim damages Rs.6,25,979/- on account of
establishment due to prolongation of the contract. a) That the claimants had contemplated maintenance of establishment during
stipulated period of completion but the work was prolonged due to various
delays and defaults on the part of the respondents. b) It is further stated that the claimants had to pay the establishment
payment during prolongation and the said expenditure was unproductive and
un contemplated. c) It is further stated that the claimants had maintained establishment
beyond the stipulated completion due to the respondent's breach and thus
entitled for payment. d) That the respondents were also aware that the claimant has maintained
regular establishment and thus, incurred expenditure and the claimants had
also made several representations." Claims 12 and 13 read as follows: Claim No. 13: Claimants claim Rs.97,5000/- being the extra at 35% for the
work executed in block 100 & 101 effective from 28.2.94 till actual
completion. a) It is further stated that due to delayed execution of the work of these
two blocks the claimants had to incur extra expenditure as the stoppage of
work was utterly arbitrary. b) That the detailed break-up of this claim is appended with the statement
of facts." 5. Though the challenge to claims 2, 3 and 4 were given up before the
Division Bench, they are also relevant and read as follows: l,12,067/- as per the formula applicable. c) That the respondents however, did not make a single payment though, the
work was executed after submission of the said bill. d) That however, a consolidated bill was furnished the respondents for a
sum of Rs. l,62,287/-. Even the said payment has not been liquidated so
far. e) That the claimants advised the statutory increase as and when enforced
and the claimants also submitted the labour reports indicating the nature
of the labour employed at site. f) That the respondents had also certified on the bill that the labour
payment has been made as per the labour rate. g) That it is further stated that since it is a statutory increase, the
same is payable by the respondents. Copy of the both the bills attached.
And thus the claimants be awarded a sum of Rs. 1,62,287/- to the claimants. Claim No.3: Claimants claim Rs.l,49,862/- being the increase in cost of
stone grit on account closure of the quarry by the order of the Supreme
Court. a) That it is stated that the claimants had submitted the tender on the
basis of the rate prevailing but due to the Hon'ble Court's directions for
closure of the stone quarry resulting in shortage of stone chips in the
market and consequently rates increased. b) That the claimants informed the quantum of the increase on 22.6.92 and
followed by reminders. c) That the respondents had agreed in principle to pay the increase which
was prevailing in the market. d) That the detailed break-up of this claim has been appended separately. e) It is further stated that the claimant was not instrumental for increase
in cost but due to the interference of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. And the
said increase has been taken into account till the stipulated completion
dated 23.2.93. f) That the claimant is entitled for recovery of the said increase. Claim No. 4: Claimants claim Rs.12,922/- payable by virtue of clause 10-C
of the agreement and up to the stipulated period a) That there was steep rise in cost of steel and the claimant was
exposed and the respondents were liable to pay the increase in steel. b) That the detailed break-up of this claim has been prepared and
appended. 6. The Arbitrator by a reasoned award dated 23rd May, 2005 held that the
entire delay of 25 months in the execution of the project was thanks to the
DDA, none of this delay being attributable to the contractor. The learned
Arbitrator found: The said hindrance was removed lastly on 28.3.95. IV) Abnormal delay in making availability of the alignment sketch for
electrical cables. V) Inordinate delay in supply of stipulated material such as cement, steel
and pipes. VI) Delay in decision of finishing work in kitchen and bath rooms. VII) There was inordinate delay in making availability of colour scheme. VIII) That the Respondents also abnormally delayed the supply of door
shutters which were to be supplied by the Respondents. The same were
supplied as late as 8.11.94. IX) Inordinate delay in writing in the electrical conduits resulting in
delay in completion of finishing work. X) Suspension of work by the Respondents for the period 17.1.94 to 25.2.94
and from 7.8.94 to 22.3.95 because of non-removal of hindrances. XI) Delayed payment due to non-sanction of Administrative Approval and
Expenditure Sanction. That all the delays as set out had been duly recorded 733 to 739 and M.A.S.
register pages from 747 to 768 as highlighted by the Claimants. The
Claimants also relied upon certain documents of MAS Register supplied by
the Respondents. That the Claimants further stated that the Claimants had also filed reasons
for delay and hold up of the work various defaults of the Respondents in
Annexure pages 740 to 746. The Claimants also highlighted the
correspondence made by the Claimants with Respondents. That the Claimants further stated that the said hindrances were avoidable
but the Respondents did not take timely steps. That the Claimants also referred the contents of the letter dated 10.7.95
(page 885) wherein it was observed that the Superintending Engineer
appreciated the working of the Claimants and also observed that there was
no fault of the contractor and they have successfully completed the work.
The Claimants further stated that, they had incurred heavy expenditure on
overheads of the lapses and default of the Respondents. As against this the Respondents stated that there was poor planning of the
claimants and also contended that since the compensation has been levied
under Clause 2 of the agreement therefore, claim of the claimants deserves
to be rejected. That on record it is conclusively proved that the Respondents committed
breach of contract as they failed to discharge their obligations in time
resulting in prolongations did not deny the deployment of the tools and
plants and machinery at site besides watch and ward during the
prolongation." 7. It is important to note that before the Division Bench, the learned
counsel for the DDA conceded that this being a pure finding of fact, he
would not be challenging it before the Division Bench. 8. Of the total claim of Rs.37.28 lakhs, the learned Arbitrator awarded
an amount of Rs.23.39 lakhs. Further, the learned Arbitrator has
laboriously gone through all the evidence and answered each claim giving
reasons for the same. 9. By a judgment dated 3rd April, 2006, the learned Single Judge of the
High Court of Delhi dismissed the objections of the DDA and upheld the
award. In an appeal filed under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act, vide the
impugned judgment dated 8th February, 2012, a Division Bench of the High
Court of Delhi set aside the judgment of the Single Judge on claims 9, 10,
11 and 15, and negatived these claims in toto. Further, claims 12 and 13
were scaled down doing "rough and ready justice". Resultantly, the awarded
amount of Rs.7,20,000/- was scaled down to Rs. 5,57,137.50/-. 10. We have heard learned counsel for the parties. Shri M. L. Verma,
learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant, submitted
that the Division Bench has lost sight of the law laid down by this Hon'ble
Court when it comes to challenges made to arbitral awards under Section 34 of the Act. He has submitted that the Division Bench has acted as if this
was a first appeal from the award and has further submitted that the
Division Bench has taken into account facts which were neither pleaded nor
proved before the learned Arbitrator in order to negative certain claims.
He further submitted that it is not possible for a Bench hearing an
objection against an arbitral award to do "rough and ready justice" - it is
bound by the law laid down by this Hon'ble Court. In particular, he argued
that the conceded position is that 25 months delay was due to the DDA
alone. The award read as a whole is just, fair and reasonable as only
certain claims have been granted and every claim granted has been supported
with reasons. The Arbitrator is the sole judge of the quality and quantity
of evidence before him and he has decided on that evidence. No errors of
law arise from the award and the award has, therefore, been wrongly set
aside. 11. Mr. Amarendra Sharan, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of
the DDA has relied strongly on clause 10C and clause 22 to support the
judgment of the Division bench and has further argued that there has been
duplication so far as certain claims are concerned. He argued that an award
in the teeth of clause 10C and clause 22 would be a jurisdictional error
which would vitiate the award. 12. In as much as serious objections have been taken to the Division
Bench judgment on the ground that it has ignored the parameters laid down
in a series of judgments by this Court as to the limitations which a Judge
hearing objections to an arbitral award under Section 34 is subject to, we
deem it necessary to state the law on the subject. Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act reads as follows- or (b) the Court finds that- (i) the subject-matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by
arbitration under the law for the time being in force, or (ii) the arbitral award is in conflict with the public policy of India. Explanation.-Without prejudice to the generality of sub-clause (ii), it is
hereby declared, for the avoidance of any doubt, that an award is in
conflict with the public policy of India if the making of the award was
induced or affected by fraud or corruption or was in violation of Section
75 or Section 81 . (3) An application for setting aside may not be made after three months
have elapsed from the date on which the party making that application had
received the arbitral award or, if a request had been made under Section
33 , from the date on which that request had been disposed of by the
arbitral tribunal: This Section in conjunction with Section 5 makes it clear that
an arbitration award that is governed by part I of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996 can be set aside only on grounds mentioned under Section 34 (2) and (3), and not otherwise. Section 5 reads as follows: It is important to note that the 1996 Act was enacted to
replace the 1940 Arbitration Act in order to provide for an arbitral
procedure which is fair, efficient and capable of meeting the needs of
arbitration; also to provide that the tribunal gives reasons for an
arbitral award; to ensure that the tribunal remains within the limits of
its jurisdiction; and to minimize the supervisory roles of courts in the
arbitral process. It will be seen that none of the grounds contained in sub-
clause 2 (a) deal with the merits of the decision rendered by an arbitral
award. It is only when we come to the award being in conflict with the
public policy of India that the merits of an arbitral award are to be
looked into under certain specified circumstances. In Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electronic Co. , 1994
Supp (1) SCC 644, the Supreme Court construed Section 7 (1)(b) (ii) of the
Foreign Award (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961. In construing the expression "public policy" in the context of
a foreign award, the Court held that an award contrary to 1. The fundamental policy of Indian law 2. The interest of India 3. Justice or morality,

 would be set aside on the ground that it would be contrary to the
public policy of India. It went on further to hold that a contravention of
the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act would be contrary to
the public policy of India in that the statute is enacted for the national
economic interest to ensure that the nation does not lose foreign exchange
which is essential for the economic survival of the nation (see para 75).
Equally, disregarding orders passed by the superior courts in India could
also be a contravention of the fundamental policy of Indian law, but the
recovery of compound interest on interest, being contrary to statute only,
would not contravene any fundamental policy of Indian law (see paras
85,95). When it came to construing the expression "the public policy of
India" contained in Section 34 (2) (b) (ii) of the Arbitration Act, 1996,
this Court in ONGC v. Saw Pipes, 2003 (5) SCC 705, held- Illegality must go to the root of the matter and if the illegality is
of trivial nature it cannot be held that award is against the public
policy. Award could also be set aside if it is so unfair and unreasonable
that it shocks the conscience of the court. Such award is opposed to public
policy and is required to be adjudged void. 74. In the result, it is held that: However, exception for setting aside the award on the ground of
composition of Arbitral Tribunal or illegality of arbitral procedure is
that the agreement should not be in conflict with the provisions of Part I
of the Act from which parties cannot derogate. (c) If the award passed by the Arbitral Tribunal is in contravention
of the provisions of the Act or any other substantive law governing the
parties or is against the terms of the contract. (3) The award could be set aside if it is against the public policy
of India, that is to say, if it is contrary to: The judgment in ONGC v. Saw Pipes has been consistently
followed till date. In Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. Friends Coal Carbonisation , (2006) 4
SCC 445, this Court held: In McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. ,
(2006) 11 SCC 181, this Court held: In Centrotrade Minerals & Metals Inc. v. Hindustan Copper Ltd. ,
(2006) 11 SCC 245, Sinha, J., held: 104. What would be a public policy would be a matter which would
again depend upon the nature of transaction and the nature of statute. For
the said purpose, the pleadings of the parties and the materials brought on
record would be relevant so as to enable the court to judge the concept of
what was a public good or public interest or what would otherwise be
injurious to the public good at the relevant point as contradistinguished
by the policy of a particular government. (See State of Rajasthan v.
Basant Nahata [(2005) 12 SCC 77].)" is open to interference by the court under Section 34(2) of the Act. (b) The award could be set aside if it is contrary to: With these principles and statutory provisions, particularly, Section 34(2) of the Act, let us consider whether the arbitrator as well as the Division
Bench of the High Court were justified in granting the award in respect of
Claims 1 to 3 and Additional Claims 1 to 3 of the claimant or the appellant
DDA has made out a case for setting aside the award in respect of those
claims with reference to the terms of the agreement duly executed by both
parties." J.G. Engineers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India , (2011) 5 SCC 758, held: Union of India v. Col . L.S.N. Murthy, (2012) 1 SCC 718, held: Fundamental Policy of Indian Law

 Coming to each of the heads contained in the Saw Pipes judgment, we
will first deal with the head "fundamental policy of Indian Law". It has
already been seen from the Renusagar judgment that violation of the Foreign
Exchange Act and disregarding orders of superior courts in India would be
regarded as being contrary to the fundamental policy of Indian law. To this
it could be added that the binding effect of the judgment of a superior
court being disregarded would be equally violative of the fundamental
policy of Indian law. In a recent judgment, ONGC Ltd. v. Western Geco International Ltd. ,
2014 (9) SCC 263, this Court added three other distinct and fundamental
juristic principles which must be understood as a part and parcel of the
fundamental policy of Indian law. The Court held- It is clear that the juristic principle of a "judicial approach" The third juristic principle is that a decision which is perverse or
so irrational that no reasonable person would have arrived at the same is
important and requires some degree of explanation. It is settled law that
where- a finding is based on no evidence, or

an arbitral tribunal takes into account something irrelevant to the
decision which it arrives at; or

ignores vital evidence in arriving at its decision,

such decision would necessarily be perverse. A good working test of
perversity is contained in two judgments. In H.B. Gandhi, Excise and
Taxation Officer-cum-Assessing Authority v. Gopi Nath & Sons, 1992 Supp (2)
SCC 312 at p. 317, it was held: In Kuldeep Singh v. Commr. of Police , (1999) 2 SCC 10 at para 10, it was
held: It must clearly be understood that when a court is applying the
"public policy" test to an arbitration award, it does not act as a court of
appeal and consequently errors of fact cannot be corrected. A possible view
by the arbitrator on facts has necessarily to pass muster as the arbitrator
is the ultimate master of the quantity and quality of evidence to be relied
upon when he delivers his arbitral award. Thus an award based on little
evidence or on evidence which does not measure up in quality to a trained
legal mind would not be held to be invalid on this score[1]. Once it is
found that the arbitrators approach is not arbitrary or capricious, then he
is the last word on facts. In P.R. Shah, Shares & Stock Brokers (P) Ltd. v.
B.H.H. Securities (P) Ltd. , (2012) 1 SCC 594, this Court held: It is with this very important caveat that the two fundamental
principles which form part of the fundamental policy of Indian law (that
the arbitrator must have a judicial approach and that he must not act
perversely) are to be understood. Interest of India

 The next ground on which an award may be set aside is that it
is contrary to the interest of India. Obviously, this concerns itself with
India as a member of the world community in its relations with foreign
powers. As at present advised, we need not dilate on this aspect as this
ground may need to evolve on a case by case basis. Justice
 The third ground of public policy is, if an award is against justice
or morality. These are two different concepts in law. An award can be said
to be against justice only when it shocks the conscience of the court. An
illustration of this can be given. A claimant is content with restricting
his claim, let us say to Rs. 30 lakhs in a statement of claim before the
arbitrator and at no point does he seek to claim anything more. The
arbitral award ultimately awards him 45 lakhs without any acceptable reason
or justification. Obviously, this would shock the conscience of the court
and the arbitral award would be liable to be set aside on the ground that
it is contrary to "justice". Morality

 The other ground is of "morality". Just as the expression "public
policy" also occurs in Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, so does the
expression "morality". Two illustrations to the said section are
interesting for they explain to us the scope of the expression "morality". In Gherulal Parekh v. Mahadeo Dass Maiya, 1959 Supp (2) SCR 406, this
Court explained the concept of "morality" thus- Halsbury in his Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 8, makes a similar
statement, at p. 138 : In the Law of Contract by Cheshire and Fifoot, 3rd Edn., it is stated
at p. 279: In the book on the Indian Contract Act by Pollock and Mulla it is
stated at p. 157: The learned authors confined its operation to acts which are
considered to be immoral according to the standards of immorality approved
by Courts. The case law both in England and India confines the operation of
the doctrine to sexual immorality. To cite only some instances: settlements
in consideration of concubinage, contracts of sale or hire of things to be
used in a brothel or by a prostitute for purposes incidental to her
profession, agreements to pay money for future illicit cohabitation,
promises in regard to marriage for consideration, or contracts facilitating
divorce are all held to be void on the ground that the object is immoral. The word "immoral" is a very comprehensive word. Ordinarily it takes
in every aspect of personal conduct deviating from the standard norms of
life. It may also be said that what is repugnant to good conscience is
immoral. Its varying content depends upon time, place and the stage of
civilization of a particular society. In short, no universal standard can
be laid down and any law based on such fluid concept defeats its own
purpose. The provisions of S. 23 of the Contract Act indicate the
legislative intention to give it a restricted meaning. Its juxtaposition
with an equally illusive concept, public policy, indicates that it is used
in a restricted sense; otherwise there would be overlapping of the two
concepts. In its wide sense what is immoral may be against public policy,
for public policy covers political, social and economic ground of
objection. Decided cases and authoritative text-book writers, therefore,
confined it, with every justification, only to sexual immorality. The other
limitation imposed on the word by the statute, namely, "the court regards
it as immoral", brings out the idea that it is also a branch of the common
law like the doctrine of public policy, and, therefore, should be confined
to the principles recognized and settled by Courts. Precedents confine the
said concept only to sexual immorality and no case has been brought to our
notice where it has been applied to any head other than sexual immorality.
In the circumstances, we cannot evolve a new head so as to bring in wagers
within its fold." This Court has confined morality to sexual morality so far as section
23 of the Contract Act is concerned, which in the context of an arbitral
award would mean the enforcement of an award say for specific performance
of a contract involving prostitution. "Morality" would, if it is to go
beyond sexual morality necessarily cover such agreements as are not illegal
but would not be enforced given the prevailing mores of the day. However,
interference on this ground would also be only if something shocks the
court's conscience. Patent Illegality
 We now come to the fourth head of public policy namely, patent
illegality. It must be remembered that under the explanation to section 34
(2) (b) , an award is said to be in conflict with the public policy of India
if the making of the award was induced or affected by fraud or corruption.
This ground is perhaps the earliest ground on which courts in England set
aside awards under English law. Added to this ground (in 1802) is the
ground that an arbitral award would be set aside if there were an error of
law by the arbitrator. This is explained by Lord Justice Denning in R v.
Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal . Ex Parte Shaw., 1952 1 All ER
122 at page 130: This, in turn, led to the famous principle laid down in Champsey Bhara Company v. The Jivraj Balloo Spinning and Weaving Company
Ltd. , AIR 1923 PC 66, where the Privy Council referred to Hodgkinson and
then laid down: This judgment has been consistently followed in India to test awards
under Section 30 of the Arbitration Act, 1940. In the 1996 Act, this principle is substituted by the 'patent
illegality' principle which, in turn, contains three sub heads - (a) a contravention of the substantive law of India would result in
the death knell of an arbitral award. This must be understood in the sense
that such illegality must go to the root of the matter and cannot be of a
trivial nature. This again is a really a contravention of Section 28(1)(a) of the Act, which reads as under: (b) a contravention of the Arbitration Act itself would be regarded as a
patent illegality- for example if an arbitrator gives no reasons for an
award in contravention of section 31(3) of the Act, such award will be
liable to be set aside. (c) Equally, the third sub-head of patent illegality is really a
contravention of Section 28 (3) of the Arbitration Act, which reads as
under: This last contravention must be understood with a caveat. An arbitral
tribunal must decide in accordance with the terms of the contract, but if
an arbitrator construes a term of the contract in a reasonable manner, it
will not mean that the award can be set aside on this ground. Construction
of the terms of a contract is primarily for an arbitrator to decide unless
the arbitrator construes the contract in such a way that it could be said
to be something that no fair minded or reasonable person could do. In McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. ,
(2006) 11 SCC 181, this Court held as under: In MSK Projects (I) (JV) Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan , (2011) 10
SCC 573, the Court held: In Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. v. Dewan Chand Ram Saran , (2012)
5 SCC 306, the Court held: If he does so, the decision of the umpire has to be accepted as final and
binding." 13. Applying the tests laid down by this Court, we have to examine
whether the Division Bench has exceeded its jurisdiction in setting aside
the arbitral award impugned before it. 14. A large part of the judgment is an extract from the arbitral award.
It is important to note that the Division Bench held: 15. The Division Bench while considering claims 9, 10, 11 and 15 found
fault with the application of Hudson's formula which was set out by the
learned Arbitrator in order to arrive at the claim made under these heads.
The Division Bench said that it was not possible for an Arbitrator to
mechanically apply a certain formula however well understood in the trade.
This itself is going outside the jurisdiction to set aside an award under Section 34 in as much as in McDermott 's case (supra), it was held: 2003)], Gladwynne Construction Co. v. Mayor and City Council of
Baltimore [Decided on 25-9-2002, 807 A. 2d 1141 (2002) : 147 Md. App. 149]
and Charles G. William Construction Inc. v. White [271 F 3d 1055 (Fed. Cir.
2001)]. 106. We do not intend to delve deep into the matter as it is an accepted
position that different formulae can be applied in different circumstances
and the question as to whether damages should be computed by taking
recourse to one or the other formula, having regard to the facts and
circumstances of a particular case, would eminently fall within the domain
of the arbitrator." 16. Obviously, the Division Bench has exceeded its jurisdiction in
interfering with a possible view of the Arbitrator on facts. 17. The Division Bench then went on to hold: 18. Thus, the award pertaining to Claim Nos. 9, 10, 11 and 15 is liable to
be sent aside and it is so set aside. We need not therefore take corrective
action on the apparent error i.e. the learned Arbitrator has worked out the
claim on the original contract value of Rs. 87,66,678/-, of course by
reducing it by 15%, but ignoring that final work executed was only in sum
of Rs.62,84,845/-." 18. Mr. Verma argued correctly that there is nothing on record to show
that the contractor is a petty contractor and that the only expenses
incurred are at the site. He has shown us that the contract itself
required execution of the work by a Class-I contractor and has further
shown us that Class-I contractors require to have certain stipulated
numbers of works worth large amounts before they can apply for the tender
and that their financial soundness has to be attested too by banker's
certificate showing that their worth is over 10 crores of rupees.
Further, he has pointed out from the statement of claims before the
Arbitrator that there was evidence for claims 9, 10 and 11 laid before the
Arbitrator which the Arbitrator has in fact accepted. Also establishment
expenses were set out in great detail before the Arbitrator and it is only
on this evidence that the Arbitrator ultimately has awarded these claims.
Mr. Verma is also right in saying that the Division Bench was completely
wrong in stating that the establishment expenses pertained to payments for
a site at Mayur Vihar as opposed to Trilok Puri which were where the
aforesaid houses were to be constructed. He pointed out that in the
completion certificate dated 30th May, 1997 given by the DDA to the
appellant, it is clear that the houses that were, in fact, to be
constructed were in Mayur Vihar, Phase-II, which is part of the Trilok Puri
trans-Yamuna area. It is most unfortunate that the Division Bench did not advert to this
crucial document at all. This document shows not only that the Division
Bench was wholly incorrect in its conclusion that the contractor has tried
to pull the wool over the eyes over the DDA but it should also have
realized that the DDA itself has stated that the work has been carried out
generally to its satisfaction barring some extremely minor defects which
are capable of rectification. It is clear, therefore, that the Division
Bench obviously exceeded its jurisdiction in interfering with a pure
finding of fact forgetting that the Arbitrator is the sole Judge of the
quantity and quality of evidence before him and unnecessarily bringing in
facts which were neither pleaded nor proved and ignoring the vital
completion certificate granted by the DDA itself. The Division Bench also
went wrong in stating that as the work completed was only to the extent of
Rs. 62,84,845/-, Hudson's formula should have been applied taking this
figure into account and not the entire contract value of Rs.87,66,678/-
into account. 19. Here again, the Division Bench has committed a grave error. Hudson's
formula as is quoted in McDermott 's case is as follows: 20. It is clear that to apply this formula one has to take into account
the contract value that is awarded and not the work completed. On this
score again, the Division Bench is to be faulted. 21. In dealing with claims 12 and 13, the Division Bench stated: 22. Here again, the Division Bench has interfered wrongly with the
arbitral award on several counts. It had no business to enter into a pure
question of fact to set aside the Arbitrator for having applied a formula
of 20 months instead of 25 months. Though this would inure in favour of the
appellant, it is clear that the appellant did not file any cross objection
on this score. Also, it is extremely curious that the Division Bench found
that an adjustment would have to be made with claims awarded under claims
2, 3 and 4 which are entirely separate and independent claims and have
nothing to do with claims 12 and 13. The formula then applied by the
Division Bench was that it would itself do "rough and ready justice". We
are at a complete loss to understand how this can be done by any court
under the jurisdiction exercised under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act.
As has been held above, the expression "justice" when it comes to setting
aside an award under the public policy ground can only mean that an award
shocks the conscience of the court. It cannot possibly include what the
court thinks is unjust on the facts of a case for which it then seeks to
substitute its view for the Arbitrator's view and does what it considers to
be "justice". With great respect to the Division Bench, the whole approach
to setting aside arbitral awards is incorrect. The Division Bench has lost
sight of the fact that it is not a first appellate court and cannot
interfere with errors of fact. 23. We come now to the arguments of Mr. Sharan in support of the Division
Bench judgment. The learned counsel strongly relied on clause 10C and
clause 22. These two clauses are set out as below: The contractor shall for the purpose of this condition keep such books of
account and other documents as are necessary to show the amount of any
increase claimed or reduction available and shall allow inspection of the
same by a duly authorised representative of Delhi Development Authority and
further shall, at the request of the Engineer-in-Charge furnish, verified
in such a manner as the Engineer-in-Charge may require. Any document, so
kept and such other information as the Engineer-in-Charge may require. The contractor shall, within a reasonable time of his becoming aware of any
alteration in the prices of any such materials and/ or wages of labour give
notice thereof to the Engineer-in- Charge stating that the same is given in
pursuance to the condition together with all information relating thereto
which he may be in a position to supply." Clause 22 reads as follows: If part of site is not available for any reasons or there is some
unavoidable delay in supply of materials stipulated by the Departments, the
programme of construction shall be modified accordingly and the contractor
shall have no claim for any extras or compensation on this account." 24. Clause 10C concerns itself with the price of material incorporated in
the works or wage or labour increases. It has been seen that claims 9, 10
and 11 have nothing to do with either of the aforesaid subjects. In
seeking to apply this clause to claim 15, the simple answer is that this
clause will not apply when a claim for damages is made. Further, the
Arbitrator considered this clause in detail and only awarded amounts under
this clause in excess of 10 percent as required by the clause when it came
to awarding amounts under claims 2, 3 and 4, which fell within the ambit of
clause 10C. The DDA in the appeal before the Division Bench correctly gave
up any challenge to these claims as has been recorded in paragraph 4 of the
order under appeal. 25. The Arbitrator has dealt with this clause in detail and has construed
and applied the same correctly while dealing with claims 2, 3 and 4 and has
obviously not applied the said clause to claims 9, 10, 11 and 15 as no
occasion for applying the same arose. The award cannot be faulted on this
ground. 26. Also, so far as clause 22 is concerned, the DDA did not raise any
argument based on this clause before the learned Arbitrator. However, it
must in fairness be stated that it was argued before the learned Single
Judge. In para 15 of his judgment, the learned Judge sets the clause out
and then follows a judgment of the High Court of Delhi in Kochhar
Construction Works v. DDA & Anr. , (1998) 2 Arb. LR 209. Apart from the
fact that a learned Single Judge of the same court is bound by a previous
judgment of a Single Judge, the conclusion of the learned Single Judge that
if the appellant is at fault and the contract is prolonged for an
inordinate period of time, it cannot be said that the respondents cannot be
compensated for the same is correct. Besides, this point was not urged
before the Division Bench and must be taken to be given up. Mr. Sharan
cited Harsha Constructions v. Union of India & Ors. , (2014) 9 SCC 246 to
say that in respect of excepted matters, no arbitration is possible, and
that this being a jurisdictional point, he should be allowed to raise it
before us. Unfortunately for Mr. Sharan, the clause does not operate
automatically. It only operates if an objection is taken stating that part
of the site is not available for any reason. Nowhere has the DDA stated
which part of the site is not available for any reason. Further, the
learned Single Judge's reason for rejecting an argument based on this
clause also commends itself to us as the object of this clause is that no
claim for extras should be granted only if there is an unavoidable delay.
We have seen that the delay was entirely avoidable and caused solely by the
DDA itself. 27. One more point needs to be noted. An argument was made before the
learned Single Judge that there has been a duplication of claims awarded.
The learned Judge dealt with this argument as follows: 28. The Single Judge is clearly right. We have gone through all the 15
claims supplied to us and we find that none of these claims are in fact
overlapping. They are all contained under separate heads. This argument,
therefore, must also fail. 29. The appeal is, therefore, allowed and the judgment of the Division
Bench is set aside. The judgment of the Single Judge is upheld and
consequently, the Arbitral award dated 23rd May, 2005 is as a whole upheld.
 There will be no order as to costs. ..................................................J.
 (Ranjan Gogoi)

......................................J.
 (R.F. Nariman)

New Delhi,
November 25, 2014 ----------------------- [2]Very often an arbitrator is a lay person not necessarily trained
in law. Lord Mansfield, a famous English Judge, once advised a high
military officer in Jamaica who needed to act as a Judge as follows: It is very important to bear this in mind when awards of lay
arbitrators are challenged.