They called Shrikanth, threatening to start reaching out to people from his contact list. Pritam repaid part of his loan, but the amount due was never reduced on the app to reflect that. Nithin had repaid his loan a few days ago, but the app still showed that he had money due, on which hefty interest was accruing day by day.

If we are to believe the reviews on the Play Store page of the Loan Home app, which has at least 1 lakh downloads, endless customers have shared their horror stories with the app in just August this year. Till now, apps like Loan Home have managed to slip through the cracks of Play Store policies. This month, however, Google’s Play Store is set to change its requirements for digital lending apps in India , only allowing lending apps that are either registered with the RBI or those that facilitate transactions with registered entities.

App stores owned by Apple and Google have come under fire for charging commissions as high as 30% from apps on their platform. To justify these high commissions, the companies often point to their robust security and approval systems preventing harm to users. The fact that predatory lending apps are still targetting Indian users through the Play Store, however, exposes a significant loophole in that reasoning.

Loan Home, which is developed by the developer KoinHappyBoykins, enjoys an average rating of 4 stars on the Play Store. When you click install, Google will even indicate that it’s ‘Verified by Play Protect,’ the feature that checks available apps for harmful behaviour. With predatory lending apps on the Play Store, often everything looks good on the surface.

In order to tackle the specific problem with lending apps, Google is planning a more proactive approach. According to the new policy which is set to be implemented from September 15, lending apps will have to fill out the Personal Loan App Declaration for India.

If digital lending apps declare that they are only facilitators, whether Google will further verify that information is unclear. It is also unclear if Google will verify internally that the app is only facilitating lending through an NBFC or bank that has an RBI license. MediaNama has reached out to Google for comment and will update this report when we receive a response.

The additional requirement of the declaration form has recently been instituted only for India. As indicated in the form, all personal loan apps operating in India without a proper declaration will be removed from the Play Store.

Across the world, lending apps on the Play Store must disclose the following information as part of their metadata:

Also read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event