% 15.10.2025 1. The Petitioner has invoked the extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read with Section 528 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 20231 (corresponding to Section 482 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19732), alleging inter alia that his right to
 reputation has been gravely infringed on account of the acts of certain police
 officials. In this regard, he makes the following averments: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/10/2025 at 22:52:53
 conceptual essentiality, and connotes, in its macrocosm, the
 fundamental perception of a thinker about the respect that life
 commands. The reverence of life is insegragably associated with the
 dignity of a human being who is basically divine, not servile. A human
 personality is endowed with potential infinity and it blossoms when
 dignity is sustained. The sustenance of such dignity has to be the
 superlative concern of every sensitive soul. The essence of dignity can
 never be treated as a momentary spark of light or, for that matter, a
 brief candle, or a hollow bubble. The spark of life gets more
 resplendent when man is treated with dignity sans humiliation, for
 every man is expected to lead an honourable life which is a splendid
 gift of creative intelligence. When a dent is created in the reputation,
 humanism is paralyzed. There are some police officials who conceive
 the perverse notion that they are the 'Law' forgetting that law is the
 science of what is good and just and, in very nature of things,
 protective of a civilized society. Reverence for the nobility of a human
 being has to be the corner stone of a body polity that believes in
 orderly progress. But, some, the incurable ones, become totally
 oblivious of the fact that living with dignity has been enshrined in our
 Constitutional philosophy and it has its ubiquitous presence, and the
 majesty and sacrosanctity dignity cannot be allowed to be crucified in
 the name of some kind of police action. 3. That the aforesaid prologue assumes great significance inasmuch
 in the present case, the petitioner with his unflinching faith in our
 judicial system is impelled to solicit the kind indulgence of this
 Hon'ble Court whilst invoking the Extraordinary Jurisdiction
 conferred under Article 226 of the Constitution inter-alia seeking
 issuance of a Writ of Mandamus or any other analogous Writ, Order
 or Direction thereby directing the respondent herein to forthwith
 conduct an in-depth inquiry/investigation in a fair, impartial and time-
 bound manner under the direct supervision of DCP-Vigilance or a
 Police Official of a Higher Rank, into the petitioner's Complaints
 dated: 15.11.2023, 17.11.2023, and 28.11.2023, apropos the
 reprehensible incident dated: 15.11.2023 involving high handed,
 illegal and contemptuous acts perpetrated by a cohort of
 indeterminate police officials of Central-District particularly of
 Special Staff, Kamla Market inter-alia criminal trespass, illegal arrest
 in a humiliating manner in the presence of all and sundry including
 neighbours without any Warrant/and or Statutory Notice or providing
 any legal explanation or documentation, illegal detention at Special
 Staff Office, Kamla Market, subjecting him to inhuman and degrading
 treatment, snatching his mobile phone and conducting an
 unauthorized scrutiny of his private communications, causing
 unwarranted harassment, grave & inconceivable mental agony to him W.P.(CRL) 3620/2023 Page 2 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/10/2025 at 22:52:53
 and his family members thereby trampling upon the sacrosanct
 Fundamental Rights of the petitioner and the vulnerable members of
 his family viz. Purdahnashin women, small children, and a bedridden,
 ailing patriarch, i.e. his father, as Guaranteed under Article 21 of the
 Constitution viz. 'Right to Privacy', 'Right to Reputation' and 'Right
 to Live with Dignity', which are inviolable facets of 'Right to Life' as
 well as International Human Rights as Guaranteed under Articles 3 , 5 ,
 7 , 9 & 12 of the United Nations 'Universal Declaration of Human
 Rights' (UDHR). Besides, the inscrutable conduct of the delinquent
 police officers is also ex-facie in brazen defiance of the mandatory
 statutory provisions as adumbrated in Section 41(A) read with section
 160 & 60(A) Cr.P.C, and the guidelines laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the landmark cases of 'D.K. Basu vs The State of
 West Bengal'8 and 'Arnesh Kumar vs The State of Bihar '. 2. The Petitioner, states that he made a complaint to the Commissioner
 of Police (the Respondent) seeking initiation of the departmental action
 against the delinquent subordinate police officers as contemplated in the Delhi Police Act, 1978 . Despite such complaint and follow-ups, no action
 has been taken and accordingly, following reliefs have been sought: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/10/2025 at 22:52:53
 b. Issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other analogous Writ, Order or
 Direction thereby directing the respondent herein to take apposite
 stringent legal action against the concerned delinquent police officials
 of Central-District particularly of Special Staff, Kamla Market for
 their ex-facie concerted, premeditated, illegal, contemptuous and
 iniquitous acts of transgression thereby infringing, instead of
 protecting the sacrosanct Fundamental Rights of the Petitioner and his
 family members as Guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution;
 And

 c. Issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other analogous Writ, Order or
 Direction thereby directing the respondent herein to adequately
 compensate the petitioner for the ex-facie egregious acts of his
 subordinate police officers culpable of violating, instead of
 safeguarding, the sacrosanct Fundamental Rights of the petitioner and
 his family members, as Guaranteed under Article 21 of the
 Constitution, in terms of the Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment
 passed in the case of 'Nilabati Behera v. State of Orissa & Others' reported as [(1993) 2 SCC 746]; And

 d. Issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other analogous Writ, Order or
 Direction thereby directing the respondent herein to forthwith secure
 and place on record the CCTV footage of all the Cameras installed
 inside and around office of Special Staff, Kamla Market, Central-
 District from 11:00AM to 05:00 PM dated: 15.11.2023, on an exigent
 basis, in terms of the Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment dated: And

 e. Issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other analogous Writ, Order or
 Direction thereby directing the respondent herein to forthwith secure
 and place on record the CCTV footage of all the Cameras installed by
 the GNCTD and/or private residents near the petitioner's residence,
 from 01:00PM to 02:00PM dated: 15.11.2023, on an exigent basis,
 which is ephemeral in nature, and if not secured immediately, may
 lead to the destruction of vital evidence in petitioner's quest for
 justice." 3. The State, as directed vide order dated 8th December, 2023, has filed a
 status report, which reveals as follows: 4. On a perusal of the contents of the Status Report filed by the State, it
 emerges that the allegations levelled by the Petitioner are controverted. The
 Status Report discloses that the Petitioner was briefly taken to the office of
 the Special Staff, Central District in connection with the investigation of FIR
 No. 429/2023, a case of grave and heinous nature involving repeated
 assaults by one Mohd. Rehan @Gaonwala and his associates. The CCTV
 footage obtained by the investigating agency prima facie reveals the
 presence of the Petitioner in company of the said accused at the relevant
 point of time. The brief detention and interrogation of the Petitioner was
 thus explained to be in aid of the ongoing investigation. The same,
 according to the State, was duly recorded in the General Diary, and the
 Petitioner was released the very same day. 5. In this background, the claims of illegal arrest, humiliation, and W.P.(CRL) 3620/2023 Page 6 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/10/2025 at 22:52:53
 mistreatment made by the Petitioner do not appear to be supported by the
 record. The inquiry carried out pursuant to this Court's directions shows that
 CCTV footage from private residences could not be retrieved as it was auto-
 deleted due to limited storage, while footage from public cameras was
 preserved but cannot be shared with the Petitioner as it may expose
 confidential informants. Taken together, the material before this Court does
 not substantiate the allegation that the Petitioner's fundamental rights under Article 21 were violated in the manner alleged. 6. In view of the aforesaid, this Court finds no ground to invoke its
 extraordinary jurisdiction and the instant petition, being devoid of merit, is
 accordingly dismissed. 7. It is, however, clarified that the dismissal of this petition shall not
 preclude the Petitioner from pursuing any other remedy that may be
 available to him in law. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 OCTOBER 15, 2025/ck W.P.(CRL) 3620/2023 Page 7 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/10/2025 at 22:52:53