and background of the case: Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 11.02.2019. The FAA vide online reply dated 20.02.2019 upheld the
reply of the CPIO. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission
with the instant Second Appeal. CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/142877

The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 20.04.2019 seeking information
regarding a meeting of the TIFR Council of Management on 28.06.2011. (a) Provide the date when the notice of the meeting was sent. (b) Provide the minutes. (c) If not covered in (b), provide the number of members who attended the
 meeting and whether this was an adjourned meeting. (d) Provide the names of all the Council members even if they did not attend
 this meeting along with their nomination agency. The CPIO, vide online reply dated 20.05.2019 disposed off the RTI application
stating that the similar RTI applications were filed by the Appellant seeking
minutes of the meeting of Council of Management of TIFR in many of Appellant's
earlier applications. Further, CPIO noted that a Writ Petition no. 1262 of 2017 is
pending in the Bombay High Court. Moreover, the CPIO referred to the decision of the CIC in the matter of Mr.
Ramesh Chand Jain vs DTC wherein the CIC has considered the case of repetitive
use of RTI Act and harassment to the Public Authority and abuse of RTI Act . Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 27.05.2019. The FAA, vide online reply dated 06.06.2019, upheld
the reply of the CPIO observing as under:- Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal. Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: Moreover, there is no record available with TIFR to suggest that SDTT is a public
authority, coming under the purview of the RTI Act since it is a separate entity
from TIFR and TIFR is not authorized to call for information from SDTT. Hence, it
does not amount to information under Section 2(f) of RTI Act. A reference was also
made to the decision of the High Court of Bombay in Dr. Celsa Pinto v. Goa State
Information Commission to argue that the Public Authority is not bound to
provide explanation or justification hence the Appellant cannot seek information
as to why the said information was not available on the records of the Institute. With regard to the harassment caused by the Appellant, the Respondent inter alia
stated that: The Respondent therefore inter alia prayed before the Commission to take action
against the Appellant from further abusing the RTI Act and to impose costs
against him. The abovementioned prayer and submission regarding the
harassment caused by the Appellant by filing multiple RTI Applications, was re-
iterated by the Respondent in all the other written submissions pertaining to the
other Second Appeals/ Complaint under consideration herein. A written submission has also been received from the CPIO vide letter dated
19.01.2021 (Appeal No CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/142877) wherein it was submitted
that the Appellant has already filed about 19 applications pertaining to the TIFR Page 3 of 25 council out of which 10 were regarding the meetings of the council and 6
specifically requesting for copies of minutes and notices of certain meetings. It
was stated that while considering the repetitive nature of the applications and the
Appellant's past record they thought it fit to reject his application, in view of CIC's
decision in Ramesh Chand Jain v. DTC . The Respondent also submitted that the
Appellant, by constant and repetitive filing of RTI application on same/similar
subject, has caused harassment, diversion and wastage of public resources
resulting in a strain on the limited infrastructure available to the Institute. In order to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of the pandemic,
COVID-19 hearings through video conference were scheduled after giving prior
notice to both the parties. The Appellant participated in the hearing through video conference. At the outset,
he stated that the issues raised in all his RTI applications were in the larger
public interest pertaining to governance and administrative irregularities in the
Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). He further stated that instead of
disclosing the information sought by him which should have been mandatorily
disclosed by the Public Authority as per Section 4 (1) (a) of the RTI Act, 2005, the
Respondent deliberately denied him the information. As regards, the RTI application under consideration in Appeal No.
CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/110070, the Appellant stated that being a cardinal
document relating to creation of the first bye laws, the same ought to be held and
available with the Public Authority. Regarding the RTI application under
consideration in Appeal No CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/142877, the Appellant argued
that the queries raised therein were not repetitive in nature. He stated that the
promotion of 2 faculty members was part of the agenda of the said meeting of
2011 and that it was his apprehension that promotion was given to them as an
undue favour for conducting a biased investigation on an incident pertaining to
alleged cheating by a Ph.D candidate in the selection examination. The Respondent is represented by Ms Sucheta Dixit, PIO and AO (D) Legal
through video conference. She reiterated her written submission dated
19.01.2021 and stated that the information sought in Appeal No.
CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/110070 is not available with the Public Authority and that
they did not have any regulatory authority to retrieve the same from Sir Dorabji
Tata Trust (SDTT). Furthermore, similar information was provided to the
Appellant against RTI application No TIOFR/R/2018/50029. As regards the RTI
application under consideration in Appeal No CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/142877, she
stated that the Appellant was misusing the RTI mechanism by filing multiple
similar RTI applications. On being queried by the Commission if the issues raised by him regarding alleged
wrongful award of Ph.D degree to Shri Naqeeb Ahmed Warsi were challenged by
him before a Court of Law, the Appellant replied in the affirmative and stated that
a Writ Petition No 1262/2017 has been filed by him before the Hon'ble High Court
of Bombay which is pending adjudication as on date. Decision Page 4 of 25 Keeping in view the facts of the case and the submissions made by both the
parties, the Commission observes that a suitable response as per the provisions of
the RTI Act, 2005 is provided by the Respondent in Appeal No
CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/110070. As per the provisions of the RTI Act, 2005 only
such information which is held and available with a Public Authority can be
disclosed. The CPIO is not supposed to create any information nor is he obliged to
provide clarifications/ interpretations/ analysis to the information seeker. As regards the queries raised in the RTI application in Appeal No
CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/142877, the Commission is of the view that queries of
similar nature seeking details of the TIFR Council meetings have been made by
him in earlier RTI applications and that instead of filing multiple RTI applications,
the Appellant could have filed a single consolidated application seeking pointed
information. Even if the Commission were to reluctantly acknowledge that this is an attempt
on the Appellant's part to fight corruption, the means adopted by him stifles and
defeats the very purpose of the RTI Act . In other words, however noble the
purpose of this vigorous attempt to bring about probity in the functioning of TIFR
would have been, the fact remains that the means adopted by him by inundating
the Public Authority with multiple RTI cases unfortunately only points to the
ignorance of the Appellant about the spirit of the RTI Act . As much as a CPIO has
a statutory responsibility of complying with the provisions of the RTI Act , it is also
expected of the RTI Applicant/s to not undermine the spirit of the RTI Act by
clogging the system with such a barrage of RTI applications, merely claiming that
these are aimed at combatting corruption. The Supreme Court in Advocate General, Bihar vs. M.P. Khair Industries (AIR
1980 SC 946) has termed "....filing of frivolous and vexatious petitions as abuse
of the RTI process. Some of such abuses specifically mentioned by the Apex Court
include initiating or carrying on proceedings which are wanting in bona-fides or
which are frivolous, vexatious or oppressive. The Apex Court also observed that in
such cases the Court has extensive alternative powers to prevent an abuse of its
process by striking out or staying proceedings or by prohibiting taking up further
proceedings. ...." Furthermore, it is pertinent to note that the Apex Court had discussed the issue
in great detail in the case of Ashok Kumar Pandey vs. The State of West Bengal ,
(AIR 2003 SC 280 Para 11), where J.Pasayat had held: Emphasis supplied

The Hon'ble High Court of Madras in the case of Public Information Officer,
Registrar (Administration) Vs B Bharathi [WP No. 26781/2013 dated 17.09.2014]
has also given its opinion about such vexatious litigation crippling the public
authorities and held as follows: Emphasis supplied

The Hon'ble Delhi High Court while deciding the case of Shail Sahni vs. Sanjeev
Kumar &Ors. [W.P. (C ) 845/2014] has observed that: Emphasis supplied

In the matter of Rajni Maindiratta- Vs Directorate of Education (North West-B)
[W.P.(C) No. 7911/2015] the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi, vide its order dated
08.10.2015 has held that: The aforesaid dicta essentially prove that the misuse of RTI Act is a well
recognized problem and citizens such as the Appellant should take note
that their right to information is not absolute. The Apex Court in a vital decision has categorically cautioned thus: However it is necessary to make a distinction in regard to information
 intended to bring transparency, to improve accountability and to reduce
 corruption, falling under Section 4(1)(b) and (c) and other information
 which may not have a bearing on accountability or reducing corruption.
 The competent authorities under the RTI Act will have to maintain a proper
 balance so that while achieving transparency, the demand for
 information does not reach unmanageable proportions affecting
 other public interests, which include efficient operation of public
 authorities and government, preservation of confidentiality of sensitive
 information and optimum use.." ( The Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of India Vs. Shaunak H. Satya and Ors , A.I.R 2011 SC
 3336). Emphasis supplied

 In the other landmark judgement in the case of Central Board of Secondary
 Education &Anr. Vs. Aditya Bandopadhyay & Ors. , the Apex Court held as
 follows: The Commission observed that the framework of the RTI Act, 2005 restricts the
jurisdiction of the Commission to provide a ruling on the issues pertaining to
access/ right to information and not to venture into the merits of a case or
redressal of grievance. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Union of India v. Namit Sharma in REVIEW PETITION [C] No.2309 OF 2012 IN
Writ Petition [C] No.210 OF 2012 with State of Rajasthan and Anr. vs. Namit
Sharma Review Petition [C] No.2675 OF 2012 In Writ Petition [C] No.210 OF
2012 had held as under: Furthermore, the High Court of Delhi in the matter of Hansi Rawat and Anr. vs.
Punjab National Bank and Ors. LPA No.785/2012 dated 11.01.2013 held as
under: Thus, no further intervention of the Commission is required in the instant
matters. With the above observations, the instant Second Appeals stand disposed
off accordingly. (3) CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/129484
 (4) CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/139840

Since in both these matters, the Appellant questioned the reliance by the
Respondent on their record retention policy for destruction of their records,
the above mentioned 2 cases are clubbed together for hearing and disposal. The Appellant filed an RTI application, dated20.02.2019, seeking copies of forms
filled by Mustansir Barma (a former Director of TIFR) or on his behalf for all the
official trips he made to New Delhi from 1 January 2011 to 15 August 2011. The CPIO, vide online reply dated 08.03.2019 replied as under:- Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 08.03.2019. The FAA vide online reply dated 25.03.2019 upheld the
reply of the CPIO. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission
with the instant Second Appeal. CIC/TIOFR/A/2019/139840

The Appellant has stated in his RTI application that as on 30.01.2012, while he
was working in TIFR, he received an email from the Institute of Development
Studies Kolkata asking him to fill a survey. However, some people came to the
Appellant's office at TIFR and asked him to fill out the said survey. In this regard,
the Appellant filed an RTI application dated 08.04.2019 seeking information on
the following 07 points:- The CPIO, vide online reply dated 03.05.2019 replied as under:- Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 13.05.2019. The FAA vide online reply dated 22.05.2019 upheld the
reply of the CPIO referring decision of the CIC dated 24.01.2018 in the matter of Saidur Rehman vs Railway Board as under:- Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission
with the instant Second Appeal. Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: With the above observation, the instant Second Appeals stand disposed off
 accordingly. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated12.04.2019 seeking details of all
instances where a PhD qualifying exam for the students of the Tata Institute of
Fundamental Research was held simultaneously in multiple cities excluding the
known case of the multi-city Mathematical Structures exam in its School of
Technology and Computer Science held on 13 thAugust 2011. The CPIO, vide online reply dated 03.05.2019 replied asunder:- Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 13.05.2019. The FAA vide online reply dated 21.05.2019 upheld the
reply of the CPIO. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission
with the instant Second Appeal. Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: In order to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of the pandemic,
COVID-19 hearings through video conference were scheduled after giving prior
notice to both the parties. The Appellant participated in the hearing through video conference. He stated
that the information sought was not large and voluminous and should be
available with the Public Authority. It further stated that there did not exist any
rationalised rules within TIFR for conducting muti city examination and that it
was his apprehension that the said loophole was exploited at the time when Shri
Naqeeb Ahmed Warsi appeared for the Ph D selection examination. The Respondent is represented by Ms Sucheta Dixit, PIO and AO (D) Legal
through video conference. She stated that the record was not collated in a
consolidated form in an excel sheet/ register and that several correspondences
were made regarding conducting examinations through emails collation of which
from the year 2011 till the date of filing RTI application would disproportionately
divert the resources of the Public Authority. Moreover, the arguments regarding
misuse of RTI mechanism by the Appellant was also reiterated. Decision: a. Provide the dates of all the promotions of Sugata Sanyal in TIFR.
 b. Provide the publication list of Sugata Sanyal at the time of his last
 promotion. c. Provide the date when Sugata Sanyal retired. d. Provide the details of the very first employment of Sugata Sanyal after he
 retired from TIFR. e. Provide the minutes of the meeting of the TIFR Council of Management that
 gave the last promotion to Sugata Sanyal and if the minutes do not include
 the members who attended the meeting and whether it was an adjourned
 meeting, then you ought to provide me that info as well.
 f. Provide the list of courses that Sugata Sanyal taught in TIFR within 15
 years before the date of his retirement. g. I was checking the publications of Sugata Sanyal on arxiv.org. Sugata
 Sanyal has a paper on the arxiv titled Shortened Hamming Codes
 Maximizing Double Error Detection (arxiv.org/abs/1011.1933). The paper
 was withdrawn. My question is beyond that. Say yes or no if anyone
 raised the issue that since this paper is so much different from his other
 papers both in terms of content and mathematical level, Sugata could not
 have come up with such paper and this paper, despite having the name of
 Sugata, and perhaps could only have been written by person(s) other than
 Sugata. h. Say yes or no if Sugata was ever questioned by TIFR on the issue in (g). i. Say yes or no if there were any reservations expressed on the promotions
 of Sugata such as by saying that his papers have been very far from the
 mystique of so-called fundamental research in TIFR. The CPIO, vide online reply dated 12.06.2019 disposed off the RTI application
stating that the multiple similar RTI applications were filed by the Appellant
seeking opinion and details of the action taken by TIFR. Further, CPIO referred
the decision of the CIC in the matter of Mr. Ramesh Chand Jain vs DTC wherein
the CIC considered this as a case of repetitive use of RTI Act and assuming the
proportion of harassment to the Public Authority and abuse of RTI Act . Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 18.06.2019. The FAA vide online reply dated 20.06.2019 upheld the
reply of the CPIO observing as under:- Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal. CIC/TIOFR/A/2020/102629

The Appellant filed RTI application dated 22.06.2019 seeking information on
following 06 points:- The aforesaid leads to intrigue if some assumptions are made. Conjecture: Assume Sayan withdrew his application from TIFR after
 getting an inside information that there was strong opposition. Two
 TIFR faculty compared, as Dean wished, Umang with Sayan and
 placed Umang to be less than or equal to Sayan. Umang was offered
 a TIFR faculty position. Then, the mafia behind Sayan said in an un-
 written unofficial form that our sweetheart Sayan had to withdraw
 his application but since Umang, who is less than or equal to Sayan,
 was inducted, hence, our mafia should get a credit for future
 induction of one of our guys as TIFR faculty who is at the level of
 Umang. This mafioso understanding undermines a fair faculty hiring
 process. (g) Say yes or no if TIFR has investigated the various aspects of the
 aforesaid conjecture. The CPIO, vide online reply dated 19.07.2019 disposed off the RTI application
stating that the multiple similar RTI applications were filed by the Appellant
seeking opinion and details of the action taken by TIFR. Further, CPIO referred
the decision of the CIC in the matter of Mr. Ramesh Chand Jain vs DTC wherein
the CIC considered this as the case of repetitive use of RTI Act and assuming the
proportion of harassment to the Public Authority and abuse of RTI Act . Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 01.09.2019. The FAA vide online reply dated 18.09.2019 instructed
the PIO to recheck the records and provide the reply to the Appellant. In
compliance with the order of the FAA, the CPIO vide letter dated 18.10.2019
provided a point wise response to the Appellant providing information on only
point b of the RTI application. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal. Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: The act, of the Appellant, of filing of numerous applications caused strain to the
limited infrastructure and manpower available to the Institute. A written submission has been received from the CPIO vide letter dated
19.01.2021 (Appeal No. CIC/TIOFR/A/2020/102629) wherein it was submitted
that the Appellant has filed about 25 applications regarding STCS requesting
several queries with regard to decisions/working of the STCS, information
regarding appointment and promotion of faculty members/ selection of Dean.
Considering the repetitive nature of the applications and the Appellant's past
record, the Respondent stated that they thought it fit to reject his application, in
view of CIC's decision in Ramesh Chand Jain v. DTC . The Respondent also
submitted that the Appellant, by constant and repetitive filing of RTI application
on same/similar subject, has caused harassment, diversion and wastage of public
resources along with causing strain on the limited infrastructure available to the
Institute. In order to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of the pandemic,
COVID-19 hearings through video conference were scheduled after giving prior
notice to both the parties. The Appellant participated in the hearing through video conference. He stated
that instead of providing point wise information, an incorrect plea was taken by
the Respondent denying disclosure of information on the ground that multiple RTI
applications were filed by him

The Respondent is represented by Ms Sucheta Dixit, PIO and AO (D) Legal
through video conference. She stated that the Appellant filed multiple RTI
applications on similar issues causing harassment to public authority officials
and resulting in misuse of the RTI mechanism. Decision: With the above directions, the instant Second Appeals stand disposed off
accordingly. The Complainant filed RTI application dated 23.11.2017 seeking information on
following 13 points:- Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Complainant filed a First
Appeal dated 29.12.2017. The FAA vide online reply dated 18.01.2018 upheld the
reply of the CPIO. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Complainant approached the Commission
with the instant Complaint. Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: It was concluded that for the purpose of responding to queries a, b, c, and e, more
than 200 minutes will have to be scrutinised and the Appellant was well aware
that there was only one person/ officer handling this information. While relying
on the response of the CPIO against RTI application No TIOFR/R/2017/50047,
annexed with the written submission, the Respondent stated that the Appellant
had used demeaning language in the application

In order to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of the pandemic,
COVID-19 hearings through video conference were scheduled after giving prior
notice to both the parties. The Complainant participated in the hearing through video conference. At the
outset, he challenged the tripartite agreement entered into between the
Government of India, Government of Bombay and the trustees of Sir Dorabji Tata
Trust (SDTT) on 18.02.1956 for establishment of Tata Institute of Fundamental
Research (TIFR) as also the various clauses/ terms of agreement contained
therein allowing SDTT substantial control over the activities of TIFR despite
miniscule financial contribution by it to cover the expenditures of TIFR. In the
complaint filed before the Commission, he also contested the manner in which Page 20 of 25 TIFR council meetings were conducted. As regards the instant RTI application, he
argued that reliance was incorrectly placed by the CPIO on Section 7 (9) of the RTI
Act, 2005 as the information on points a, b, c and e was straightforward and
ought to be readily available with the Respondent. The Respondent is represented by Ms Sucheta Dixit, PIO and AO (D) Legal
through video conference. She referred to her written submission dated
19.01.2021 and stated that information regarding the basis on which number of
council members were changed from 7 to 8 members was not collated and readily
available with the Respondent Public Authority since minutes on all meetings held
from 1956 will have to be examined, analysed and interpreted before giving a
response to the RTI application hence reliance on Section 7 (9) was placed by the
CPIO. On being queried by the Commission, if inspection of the minutes could
have been offered to the Complainant earlier, she stated that the certain minutes
contain confidential information relating to the affairs of the Department of
Atomic Energy severing which would not have been feasible on the part of the
CPIO. Decision: The CPIO, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research vide letter dated 24.09.2019
furnished pointwise information to the Appellant. Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 02.10.2019. The FAA vide online order dated 14.10.2019 disposed of
the First Appeal stating as under:- 2. It is noted that the PIO has not transferred your RTI to one of the entity
 [i.e.; Sir Dorabji Tata Trust]. The PIO has been instructed to transfer the
 same to SDTT as well. 3. The rest of the part of your appeal does not pertain to your RTI
 application no. TIOFR/R/2019/50081. Hence cannot be entertained. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal. Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: In order to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of the pandemic,
COVID-19 hearings through video conference were scheduled after giving prior
notice to both the parties. The Appellant was present during the hearing through video conference. He stated
that the information sought should be disclosed by the Respondent in the larger
public interest as the members of the council conduct academic appraisals of the
topmost scientists of the country. He further stated that disclosure of information
would assist him to initiate further action against unqualified members and
chairperson of the council. During the hearing, he also challenged the credentials
of Shri Ratan Tata for being appointed as the Chairperson of the Council. The Respondent was represented by Ms Sucheta Dixit, PIO and AO (D) Legal
through video conference. She stated that point wise information as per available
records was already provided to the Appellant. She further stated that several
points in the RTI application did not pertain to their organisations and were hence
transferred to Government of India, Government of Maharashtra as also Sir
Dorabji Tata Trust as per the direction of the FAA. However, no further obligation,
as per its own set of rules, bye-laws, or any other law, can be laid on PIO to
pursue the application after it has transferred the application. Decision: Clearly, secret ballot does not seem to be an option given that for the
 aforesaid decision, it was recorded that the decision was unanimous. (b) If the recording process of the voting is not specified, then please clearly
 state if it is left to the person-in-charge of the recording process, which is the
 Registrar I guess as per Rule 6, as to what to record and what not to record. The CPIO, vide online reply dated 29.01.2020 stated that the data sought does
not fall within the purview of the definition of information as defined under RTI
Act, 2005 . Dissatisfied with the reply received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 25.02.2020. The FAA vide online reply dated 18.03.2020 while
upholding the reply of the CPIO stated that once it is recorded that a vote in
unanimous, further aspects are redundant and there is no need to record the
same. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission
with the instant Second Appeal. Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: In order to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of the pandemic,
COVID-19 hearings through video conference were scheduled after giving prior
notice to both the parties. The Appellant was present during the hearing through video conference. While
questioning the credentials of Shri Ratan Tata for being appointed as the
Chairperson of the Council, the Appellant stated that process of recording
unanimous election of Shri Tata as the Chairperson should have been disclosed. The Respondent was represented by Ms Sucheta Dixit, PIO and AO (D) Legal
through video conference. She stated that while replying to an earlier RTI
application, the Appellant was already informed Shri Tata was unanimously
elected as the Chairperson of the Council for the term 2019-2021 and that extract
of the minutes pertaining to the same was already provided to him. Hence, the
instant RTI application is baseless filed with the intention of harassing the public
authority officials as all available information was already provided to the
Appellant. Decision: