W.P.No.10882 of 2021 includes academic curriculum, study material, teaching

methods, teaching points, pupil‟s activity, teacher‟s activity,

questioning hypothesis, evaluation, teacher‟s ability,

programmes, question bank, academic knowledge, experience

driven programmes by utilizing faculty and resources

throughout the country by spending several crores of rupees

and stored and saved the said intellectual property for

exclusive use of the said educational institutions in the hard

disks of the computer systems in an encrypted storage by

installing the best antivirus software with a strong password

to prevent hacking or gaining access to the outsiders. (b) Except the Executive Dean, Dean or Data Analyst of

the branches of VEMPL, the said data stored in the computer

system is not accessible to any other person. (c) The said VEMPL, in the brand name of

Sri Chaitanya, has established Gosala branches at Gosala

campus of Vijayawada in the year 2014 and has been

imparting education and giving coaching etc., to the students.

The management of VEMPL, Sri Chaitanya group appointed

accused 1 to 3 i.e. Mr. V.Narendra Babu (accused No.1) as an

Executive Dean, Sri N.Srinivasa Rao (accused No.2) as a Dean

and Sri G.Balakrishna Prasad (accused No.3) as a Data

Analyst in the year 2014. They have entered into

Employment Agreements with VEMPL which are being

renewed from time to time and it is stated that they are still in

force. Therefore, they have domain over the entire 3 CMR, J. infrastructure including the computers, hardware and

software and they got exclusive access to them. The accused

1 to 3 have agreed in their Employment Agreements that they

shall not use the confidential information entrusted to them

by the employer at any time directly or indirectly to have

personal commercial advantage or to do anything which is

detrimental to the business or activities of the employer in

any manner and that the said concepts, ideas etc., written or

electronically developed by the employee during the course of

his employment, exclusively belong to the company and also

gave an undertaking to keep confidentiality of the same.

Therefore, reposing confidence in the accused 1 to 3, the

company has entrusted the said confidential and valuable

computer data and details of the students in good faith to the

accused 1 to 3 by providing passwords of the computer

systems to them for the purpose of using the said data

exclusively for the purpose of running the educational

institutions, establishments and schools belonging to the

employer and for using the same to impart education to the

students studying in Gosala branches of Sri Chaitanya group. (d) It is stated that while so, accused 1 to 3 stopped

attending duties from 16-5-2021 abruptly and as such

suspicion arose and when the computer infrastructure and

software particulars were checked, it is noticed that accused

1 to 3 have misused and abused their position as employees

of the said educational institutions and their access to the 4 CMR, J. computer systems which were entrusted to them and

dishonestly and mala fidely entered into a conspiracy to steal

the entire data to use it for their personal gain. Therefore,

in pursuance of their common intention, they in collusion

with each other, to have wrongful gain for themselves and to

cause wrongful loss to the company and its institutions have

misused the passwords of the computer systems of the

institutions and gained access to the exclusive data of the

educational institutions of the company and have stolen the

entire data stored in the computer systems i.e. curriculum,

study material, teaching methods, teaching points, teacher‟s

activity, questioning hypothesis, evaluation, question bank,

programmes, academic knowledge experience, driven

programmes, devised by the company worth of Rs.100 Crores.

They have also stolen the complete student data relating to

the students of the educational institutions of the company. (e) It is stated that the educational institutions of the

company have completed 90% of the syllabus by 15 th May,

2021 and only revision syllabus remained uncompleted.

So, after stealing the data of the company, accused 1 to 3

have floated a fictitious institution by imitating the name of

Gosala branches of the company deceptively similar to the

same under the name and style "Gosalites Medical Academy" CMR, J. (g) It is stated in the descriptive particulars of the

accused in the F.I.R. that A4 is the Vice-Principal and Partner

and A5 is the Admin Officer and Partner of the said Gosalites

Medical Academy. (h) The aforesaid report was registered as a case in

Crime No.239/2021 by the Sub Inspector of Police,

Kankipadu Police Station, for the offences punishable under Sections 120B , 403 , 408 , 420 and 477A of IPC and under Section 66 read with Section 43 and Section 66C of the

Information Technology Act, 2008 (the I.T. Act , for brevity). (i) It is the said FIR which is now sought to be set

aside/quashed in this writ petition. 3. The 3rd respondent-Station House Officer of

Kankipadu Police Station, who registered the FIR, filed

counter affidavit stating that the 4th respondent, by name

M.Murali Krishna, lodged a report with him stating that he is

the director of VEMPL, which is doing business in providing

classes and coaching for competitive examinations to the

students and educational services to various institutions

under its branch "Sri Chaitanya" and other branches and

Sri Chaitanya College established Gosala branches at Gosala

campus in 2014 and that they have developed data relating to

academic curriculum, study material, teaching methods,

question bank etc., by spending crores of rupees and stored

the same in their hard disk of their computer and that the

petitioners, who are accused 1 to 3 who are the employees of 7 CMR, J. the said Sri Chaitanya group who got domain over the said

data and both the computer hardware and software and that

they all conspired together and stolen the aforesaid data of

VEMPL and started making use of the said data in their

educational institution to have wrongful gain for them and

wrongful loss to VEMPL. It is stated that he has registered

the said report as a case in Crime No.239/2021 for the

offences punishable under Sections 120B , 403 , 408 , 420 and 477A of IPC and under Section 66 read with Section 43 and

under Section 66C of the Information Technology Act, 2008

and has been investigating the same and that about four

witnesses were examined and their statements were recorded.

It is stated that it is mandatory on the part of the

Investigating Agency to register the FIR when the report

discloses commission of a cognizable offence as held by the

Apex Court in the case of Lalita Kumar v. State of U. P.1 and as per the ratio of the said judgment , preliminary enquiry

is required to be conducted only in (a) matrimonial, family

disputes, (b) commercial offences, (c) medical negligence cases

and (d) corruption cases, and the present case is not falling in

the category of above cases and as such he has registered the

FIR and investigating the same. It is stated that the

investigation is at preliminary stage and if the Police are

allowed to continue the investigation that they would be able

to file final report under Section 173 of Cr.P.C after collecting

1 (2014) 2 SCC 1 8 CMR, J. evidence and that the petitioners cannot maintain the writ

petition to quash the proceedings at the initial stage of the

investigation as the case is not falling within the parameters laid down by the Apex Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan

Lal2 to quash the FIR. Therefore, it is prayed to vacate the

interim order and allow him to proceed with the investigation. 4. The 4th respondent-de facto complainant filed his

counter stating that there is no necessity to conduct any

preliminary investigation in cases of like nature. It is stated

that when the FIR discloses commission of a cognizable

offence, the Police has to register an FIR and investigate the

same as has been held by the Apex Court in Lalita Kumar„s

case (1 supra). It is pleaded that the petitioners did not make

out any case to warrant interference of this Court to quash

the FIR. Further pleaded that the petitioners have admitted

that they have sent messages to the students of the

complainant-institution and it clearly reveals theft of data

from the complainant-institution and that the petitioners

have also admitted in the Writ Affidavit that the laptops were

given to them by the management of the complainant-

institution VEMPL for conducting online classes. It is stated

that the said laptops were fraudulently used and operated in

the educational institution set up by them and the same were

seized by the Police in the said educational institution of the

petitioners. So, these acts committed by the petitioners in

2 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 9 CMR, J. using the software of the complainant-company, which are

loaded in the laptops given to them in the educational

institution set up by them, constitute an offence of criminal

breach of trust. Finally pleaded that as the petitioners have

established a fictitious institution in the name and style

"Gosalites Medical Academy" and after receiving salaries from

the complainant-institution for the month of April, 2021,

as they stopped attending the duties from 15-5-2021 and as

they are using the data that was created by the complainant-

company in their fictitious educational institution which

exclusively belongs to the complainant-company VEMPL and

collecting money from the students at the rate of Rs.6,000/-

per month, the said acts committed by the petitioners clearly

constitute the offences for which the FIR was registered.

Therefore, it is prayed to dismiss the writ petition and to

vacate the interim order dated 04-6-2021. 5. Heard Sri Dammalapati Srinivas, learned Senior

Counsel appearing for the petitioners; Sri V.Maheswar Reddy,

learned Government Pleader for Home appearing for

respondents 1 to 3; and Sri B.Adinarayana Rao, learned

Senior Counsel appearing for the 4th respondent-de facto

complainant. 6. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners would

contend that at best the acts complained against the

petitioners would amount to only breach of agreement which

is a dispute of civil nature and the same cannot be converted 10 CMR, J. into a criminal liability and the petitioners are not liable for

any prosecution. He would further contend that Section 2(o) of the I.T. Act defines "Data" and the same cannot be termed

as "property" as required under Sections 408 and 420 of IPC

and the facts of the case do not constitute any offence

punishable under Sections 403 , 408 , 420 and 477A of IPC.

It is then contended that when Special Act i.e., the Information Technology Act, 2008 covers the offence, the

provisions of IPC are not applicable and the registration of

FIR for the offences under Sections 120B , 403 , 408 , 420 and 477A of IPC is legally unsustainable. Learned Senior Counsel

for the petitioners also contends that Section 81 of the I.T. Act

gives overriding effect over the provisions of the IPC and on

the said ground, the FIR registered for the IPC offences is not

maintainable under law. Learned Senior Counsel for the

petitioners finally contends that under Section 78 of the I.T.

Act, officer not below the rank of Inspector of Police shall

investigate the offence and as the FIR was registered by the

Sub Inspector of Police and as he has been investigating the

crime that the investigation is vitiated for contravening the

mandate under Section 79 of the I.T. Act. 7. Per contra, learned Government Pleader for Home

would contend that the Data is also to be considered as

property for the purpose of IPC offences. He would submit

that even though the FIR was registered by the Sub Inspector

of Police, who was the Station House Officer at that time, the 11 CMR, J. crime is being investigated by the Inspector of Police and as

such the mandate of Section 78 of the I.T. Act is complied

with and the investigation is not vitiated as contended by the

learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners. He would submit

that the allegations ascribed in the FIR clearly constitute the

offences punishable under Section 66 read with Section 43 and under Section 66C of the I.T. Act. He would also submit

that the allegations set out in the FIR also constitute the

offences punishable under Sections 403 and 408 of IPC

relating to criminal breach of trust and criminal

misappropriation and also as there is conspiracy among

accused 1 to 3 and other accused A4 & A5 to commit the said

offences that an offence under Section 120B of IPC is also

constituted. Therefore, he would submit that the matter

requires investigation to find out the truth or otherwise of the

said allegations and as the investigation is at nascent stage,

the same cannot be interdicted and the FIR cannot be

quashed. He would submit that no legal grounds are existing

to quash the FIR. 8. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

4th respondent would submit that the mere existence of

an arbitration clause or facts giving rise to a civil liability to

claim damages cannot be a ground to quash the FIR when the

facts of the case also constitute offences punishable under

the I.T. Act and under the IPC . He then contends that when

the acts committed by the accused constitute offences both 12 CMR, J. under the Special Enactment i.e., the I.T. Act and also the IPC and when the said offences are distinct and separate, there is

no bar to prosecute the accused for the offences under the IPC also albeit they are also liable for prosecution under the I.T. Act . He would also contend that there is no conflict

between the offences under the I.T. Act and the offences

under the IPC and as such the bar under Section 81 of the

I.T. Act has no application to the present facts of the case.

He would contend that stealing data is an offence under the I.T. Act whereas misappropriating data and committing

criminal breach of trust is an offence under the IPC and as

such when the facts of the case constitute two separate and

distinct offences, the accused are liable to be prosecuted

for the offences both under the I.T. Act and the IPC .

So, he would submit that the facts of the case in the

judgment relied on by the petitioners reported in Sharat

Babu Digumarti v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi3 are

distinguishable and they are not applicable to the present

facts of the case. He would contend that the petitioners, who

are admittedly employees of the company and who undertook

to maintain confidentiality of the data developed by the

company and its educational institutions in their

Employment Agreement, committed breach of trust and have

stolen the entire data of the company and its educational

institutions and misappropriated the same for their use by

3 (2017) 2 SCC 18 13 CMR, J. floating another educational institution, which is run by them

along with accused Nos.4 and 5 and used the same in the

said institution with a dishonest intention to have wrongful

gain to them and to cause wrongful loss to the company and

its educational institutions have committed the offences

which are punishable under I.T. Act and IPC . Therefore,

he submits that these facts clearly constitute the offences

punishable under Section 66 read with Section 43 and under Section 66C of the I.T. Act and also the offences punishable

under Sections 403 , 408 and 420 of IPC. So, he would finally

contend that when the facts of the case clearly constitute the

aforesaid offences, the FIR cannot be quashed and the

investigation shall be allowed to go on and the petitioners are

liable for prosecution for the said offences. Therefore,

he would pray for dismissal of the writ petition. 9. I have given my anxious and thoughtful consideration

to the aforesaid rival submissions made by the learned Senior

Counsel for the petitioners, learned Government Pleader for

Home and the learned Senior Counsel for the 4th respondent. 10. At the outset, it is relevant to note that the fact that

accused 1 to 3 are the employees of the company i.e. VEMPL

is absolutely not in dispute. Admittedly, accused 1 to 3 have

entered into separate Agreements with the said company

which is styled as Employment Agreement. They are working

as Executive Dean, Dean and Data Analyst. The fact that A4

is the Vice-Principal and Partner of Gosalites Medical 14 CMR, J. Academy and A5 is the Admin Officer and Partner of Gosalites

Medical Academy is also not in dispute. Similarly, the fact

that Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions are the

institutions relating to the aforesaid company is also not in

controversy. It is significant to note that the petitioners have

themselves unequivocally admitted in the writ petition that

they worked in VEMPL, Sri Chaitanya group in various

capacities for the last several years. Therefore, the fact that

the petitioners have worked in various capacities in VEMPL is

now an incontrovertible fact. 11. It is the specific version of the prosecution as per

the allegations set out in the FIR that the data was prepared

by VEMPL worth of Rs.100 Crores for its exclusive use to

impart education to the students of its educational

institutions and the same has been stored in the computer

systems of the said educational institutions and that they are

entrusted to accused 1 to 3 to use the said data exclusively

for the purpose of teaching the students and that necessary

passwords of the computer systems to have access to the said

data are also given to accused 1 to 3 and that they have

misused their position as employees of VEMPL and

unauthorisedly, without consent of the management of

VEMPL, have stolen the said data and other information

relating to the students and thereafter established another

educational institution along with A4 and A5 in the name and

style "Gosalites Medical Academy" deceptively similar to the 15 CMR, J. name of the educational institutions of Sri Chaitanya, Gosala

branch and started using the said data which was stolen by

them in the said Gosalites Medical Academy by inducing the

students to pay only Rs.6,000/- per month stating that they

need not pay the balance amount to VEMPL. 12. Now, the crucial question for adjudication is -

whether these acts said to have been committed by accused

would constitute any offence as contemplated under the I.T.

Act or not? 13. In this context, it is relevant to consider Section 43 of the I.T. Act. Chapter IX of the I.T. Act deals with penalties,

compensation and adjudication. Section 43 enumerates

certain acts committed relating to illegal access to computer

system, downloading copies or extracts of any data from

computer system, causing damage to the computers,

introducing any virus into the computer and computer

network etc., in Clauses (a) to (j) of Section 43 of the I.T. Act.

Person who commits any one or all of these acts is liable to

pay compensation to the person affected by way of damages.

For the purpose of deciding the present dispute, Clauses (a)

and (b) of Section 43 are relevant in the context and for better

appreciation, they are extracted hereunder: CMR, J. (b) downloads, copies or extracts any data, computer data
 base or information from such computer, computer system or
 computer network including information or data held or stored
 in any removable storage medium; (c) ................................................... (d) ................................................... (e) ................................................... (f) ................................................... (g) ................................................... (h) ................................................... (i) .................................................... (j) ...................................................."

shall be liable to pay damages by way of compensation to the

person so affected. 14. Although this Section 43 contemplates that a person

committing any such act or acts is liable to pay damages by

way of compensation to the person affected, it is significant to

note that Section 66 of the I.T. Act ordains that if any person,

dishonestly or fraudulently does any act referred to in Section 43 , he shall be punishable with imprisonment for

a term which may extend to three years or with fine which

may extend to five lakh rupees or with both. As per the

explanation appended to Section 66 , the words "dishonestly"

and "fraudulently" used therein shall have the same meaning

assigned to the said expression in Sections 24 and 25 respectively of IPC . 15. Section 66 of the I.T. Act reads as follows: 16. Therefore, a combined reading of Sections 43(a) and (b) and 66 of the I.T. Act makes it manifest that if any person,

without the permission of the owner of the computer,

computer system or computer network (a) accesses or secures

access to the computer, computer system or computer

network and (b) downloads, copies or extracts any data,

computer data base or information from such computer,

computer system or computer network including information

or data held or stored in any removable storage medium,

dishonestly or fraudulently, he is liable for prosecution under Section 66 of the I.T. Act as the said acts are also made an

offence under Section 43(a) and (b) of the I.T. Act . 17. Section 24 of IPC defines the term "dishonestly" as

anything done with intention to have wrongful gain to one

person or causing wrongful loss to another person. Section

23 of IPC defines the term "wrongful gain" and it is said that

a gain by unlawful means of property to which the person

gaining is not legally entitled is a "wrongful gain". Section 23 of IPC further defines "wrongful loss" stating that the loss

caused by unlawful means of property to which the person

losing it is legally entitled is a "wrongful loss". Similarly, 18 CMR, J. under Section 25 of IPC, "fraudulently" is defined as doing

a thing fraudulently if he does it with intent to defraud

a person. 18. It is specifically stated in the FIR that accused 1 to 3

have stolen the entire data stored in the computer system of

VEMPL and its educational institutions and used the same

for teaching the students in another company floated by

accused 1 to 3 along with accused 4 and 5. So, it is a clear

case where the said act of extracting or stealing the data from

the computer systems of VEMPL is done to have wrongful

gain to accused 1 to 3 and to cause wrongful loss to VEMPL.

So, the dishonest and fraudulent intention is very much

apparent from the said acts. Therefore, the facts of the case,

prima facie, clearly constitute an offence punishable under Section 66 read with Section 43(a) and (b) of the I.T. Act . 19. It is also specifically stated in the F.I.R. that the

computers and computer systems in the educational

institutions of Sri Chaitanya group of VEMPL were entrusted

to A1 to A3 only for the exclusive use of the data therein in

Gosala branches and other educational institutions of

VEMPL. As it is stated that they had unauthorized access to

the said data without the permission of the owners of the said

computers and computer systems i.e. management of the

VEMPL and used the same in their educational institutions

floated as Gosalites Medical Academy, established by A1 to A3

along with A4 and A5, a clear offence punishable under 19 CMR, J. Sections 66 r/w.43(a) of the I.T. Act is made out. Similarly,

the exclusive data of VEMPL was also found in the desktop

computer and hard disk of Gosalites Medical Academy, which

are seized by the police under the cover of a mediators‟ report

during the course of investigation in the premises of the said

Gosalites Medical Academy. So, it is also prima facie evident

that A4 and A5, who are the Vice Principal and Admin. Officer

cum Partners of the said Gosalites Medical Academy, also had

unauthorized access to the said data of VEMPL without their

permission and copied the same and transferred the same

into the Desktop and hard disk of the "Gosalites Medical

Academy" and using the same in the Gosalites Medical

Academy, which is an educational institution established by

them along with A1 to A3. Therefore, these facts also

constitute an offence punishable under Sections 66 r/w.43(a)

and (b) of the I.T. Act against A4 and A5 also. 20. Eventhough the laptops which are found in the

Gosalites Medical Academy when the police searched the said

premises during the course of investigation were given to A1

to A3 for their use in the educational institutions of VEMPL,

as they have used the same in Gosalites Medical Academy

established by them and used the data in it belonging to

VEMPL and also got the data in it extracted, copied and

transferred into desktop and hard disk of Gosalites Medical

Academy, the unauthorized access and transfer of data

without the permission of the owner is apparent from it. 20 CMR, J. As the details of the students of educational institutions of

VEMPL are also available with Gosalites Medical Academy, it

is also obvious that all the accused i.e. A1 to A5 had

unauthorized access to the data relating to the students also

of VEMPL and downloaded and copied the same into their

computer. So, all the accused 1 to 5 are liable for

prosecution for the offence punishable under Sections 66 r/w.43(a) and (b) of the I.T. Act . 21. Similarly, Section 66C of the I.T. Act makes use of

password or any other unique identification feature of

another person fraudulently or dishonestly, punishable with

imprisonment of either description for a term which may

extend to three years and fine which may extend to Rupees

One Lakh. Section 66C of the I.T. Act reads thus: 22. A reading of the aforesaid Section makes it manifest

that mere user of the password of another person dishonestly

or fraudulently by itself is made an offence. 23. As can be seen from the contents of the FIR at

para-6, it is clearly stated that the management by reposing

confidence in accused 1 to 3 has entrusted and given access 21 CMR, J. to them in good faith to the highly confidential and valuable

data by providing passwords of the computer systems to

them for using the data exclusively to run the educational

institutions belonging to the employer and for using the same

in Gosala branches of Sri Chaitanya group of VEMPL.

In para-7 of the FIR, it is stated that accused 1 to 3, who have

domain over the said computers, electronic gadgets, software,

computer data base of the institutions including customize

education software, have misused the passwords of the

computer system and gained access to the said data and have

stolen the same from the computer systems. 24. The petitioners did not dispute the fact that

Gosalites Medical Academy was established by them. They

themselves have filed a copy of Certificate of Registration of

"Sri Gosalites Educational Society" along with the Writ

Petition and also copy of declaration by the authorized agent

for delivering the electronic services. As can be seen from the

same, A-1 is the Secretary Correspondent and A2 is the

Member of the said Sri Gosalites Educational Society. Now,

it is significant to note that as can be seen from the Photostat

copy of the certified copy of the mediators report, dated

29.05.2021, produced by the 4th respondent-de facto

complainant, it shows that the police during the course of

investigation seized desktop, laptop and one external hard

disk containing the data relating to the VEMPL i.e. the

educational institution of the complainant company found in 22 CMR, J. the premises of Gosalites Medical Academy. The contents of

the mediators report prima facie disclose that A1 and A3 were

found in the said Gosalites Medical Academy at the time

when the police searched the said premises and they found

on the table of A3 one computer i.e. desktop and it contains

study material, teaching methods, curriculum etc. belonging

to Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions and they found one

laptop also containing the same study material, teaching

methods, lesson plans etc. of Sri Chaitanya Educational

Institutions and one external hard disk also containing the

same data relating to the Sri Chaitanya Educational

Institutions and that they were seized in the presence of the

mediators. Therefore, it is now prima facie evident that by

using the password that was furnished to A1 to A3

dishonestly to have access to the data of VEMPL educational

institutions, that A1 to A3 have transferred the said data in

the laptop that was given to them to conduct online classes in

the educational institutions of VEMPL into the desktop

computer of Gosalites Medical Academy and also into the

hard disk. The dishonest intention in using the said

password to have wrongful gain to the accused and to cause

wrongful loss to the VEMPL institutions is very much

apparent from it. 25. Thus, these allegations in the FIR, when considered

in the light of the ingredients contemplated under Section 43

read with Sections 66 and 66C of the I.T. Act, clearly 23 CMR, J. constitute the offences punishable under Section 66 read with Section 43(a) & (b) of the I.T. Act and under Section 66C of

the I.T. Act. 26. Therefore, when it is found that the facts of the case

constitute an offence punishable under Section 66 read with Section 43 and Section 66C of the I.T. Act, it cannot be said

under any stretch of reasoning that the very registration of

FIR in Crime No.239/2021 against accused is unsustainable

under law or that it is unconstitutional. The truth or

otherwise of the said allegations, which prima facie constitute

the aforesaid offences, has to be ascertained during the

course of investigation. Therefore, there is no merit in the

contention of the petitioners that the facts of the case do not

constitute any such offences punishable under Section 66 read with Section 43 and under Section 66C of the I.T. Act for

which the FIR was registered. 27. The next crucial question that arises for

consideration is - when the facts of the case constitute

various offences under the I.T. Act , whether the accused are

liable for prosecution for the offences punishable under IPC or not? 28. Even though from the facts of the case it appears

that an offence of criminal misappropriation and criminal

breach of trust are made out, in as much as A1 to A3

dishonestly used the passwords furnished to them and 24 CMR, J. extracted the data from the computer system entrusted to A1

to A3 by the VEMPL educational institutions and

misappropriated the said data for their use in the educational

institution i.e. Gosalites Medical Academy established by

them, as the said facts of the case also constitute an offence

punishable under Sections 66 r/w.43 of the I.T. Act and

under Section 66C of the I.T. Act as discussed above,

prosecuting the petitioners again for the offences punishable

under Sections 403 and 408 of IPC is not permissible under

law. The legal position in this regard is not res integra and

the same has been well settled by the Apex Court in the case

of Sharat Babu Digumarti3. The Supreme Court held that

the provisions of the I. T. Act are a complete code relating to

the offences that are covered under the I. T. Act . It is

a special enactment and it has special provisions and all its

provisions shall be allowed to have a full play. 29. Further held that Section 292 of IPC makes offence

sale of obscene books etc., and when the I. T. Act in its

various provisions deals with obscenity in electronic form,

it also covers the offence under Section 292 of IPC. So, as it

is a special enactment and has special provisions and when

the offence has nexus with electronic record, the protection

under Section 79 of the I.T. Act cannot be ignored and

negated and as it is a special provision for a specific purpose,

the I.T. Act has to be given effect to so as to make the

protection effective and true to the legislative intent. Also 25 CMR, J. held that it is the specific mandate of Section 81 of the I.T.

Act that the provisions of the I.T. Act shall have effect

notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in

any other law for the time being in force and that all the

provisions in the I.T. Act will have their play and significance,

if they pertain to electronic record. 30. Finally held that electronic forms of transmission

are covered by I.T. Act which is a special law and that it is

well settled proposition of law that a special law shall prevail

over the general and prior laws like IPC and if the legislative

intendment is discernible that a latter enactment shall

prevail, the same is to be interpreted in accord with the said

intention and held that when once the special provisions

having the overriding effect do cover a criminal act and the

offender, he gets out of the net of IPC . 31. As per the facts of the case in the above reported

judgment of the Apex Court, the accused therein was sought

to be prosecuted for the offence punishable under Section 67 of the I.T. Act for publishing and transmitting obscene

material in electronic form, which is made an offence under

the aforesaid Section of law in the I.T. Act . He was also

sought to be prosecuted for the offence punishable under Section 292 of IPC for sale and publication of obscene books

etc. As the publication and transmission of obscene material

is made in the electronic form, it is held that the offence is 26 CMR, J. covered by the I.T. Act and as such, the accused therein is

not liable again for prosecution under Section 292 of IPC. 32. Following the law laid down by the Apex Court in

the above judgment, a Division Bench of the Bombay High

Court also in the case of Gagan Harsh Sharma v. The State

of Maharashtra4 held at para.7 that the provisions of the I.T.

Act would reveal that it provides complete mechanism for

protection of data in a computer system or a computer

network. The said enactment is a complete code which deals

with electronic governance and confers a legal recognition on

electronic records and the manner in which such records can

be secured. The I.T. Act makes certain acts punishable in

Chapter-IX and Chapter-XI of the Act which enumerates the

offences related to the computer including the source

documents. Thus, the said enactment is a complete Code in

itself and deals with various aspects of electronic data and

computer system. 33. Ultimately held that, once the acts of the accused

done with fraudulent or dishonest intention constitute an

offence under Sections 66 r/w.43 of the I.T. Act , they cannot

be again held liable for the offence punishable under the Indian Penal Code . 34. As per the facts of the above reported case, that was

also a case where F.I.R. was registered for the offences

punishable under Sections 408 and 420 of IPC and under 4 Judgment of the Bombay High Court in Crl.W.P.No.4361 of 2018, dt.26.10.2018. 27 CMR, J. Sections 43 , 65 and 66 of the I.T. Act against the accused for

unauthorized use of data code by the employees of the

complainant company by accessing the code and stealing the

said data by using the computer source code without the

permission of the owner or a person in-charge of the said

computer or computer system. The Court held that when the

offences are covered by Section 66 of the I.T. Act that

prosecuting the accused under both the Indian Penal Code

and I.T. Act would be a brazen violation of protection against

double jeopardy and quashed the F.I.R. in so far as it relates

to offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code . 35. Thus, it is abundantly clear from the conspectus of

law laid down in the aforesaid judgments of the Apex Court

and the Bombay High Court that when the special enactment

i.e. I.T. Act covers the criminal act and the offender, that the

offender gets out of the net of the Indian Penal Code . 36. The analogy in the aforesaid judgments of the Apex

Court and the Bombay High Court applies to the facts of the

present case also. The acts committed by A1 to A3 and also

A4 and A5 in extracting the data surreptitiously with

a dishonest intention to use the same in their educational

institutions, which they have established separately, and also

the acts of A1 to A3 in using the password furnished to them

dishonestly for the said purpose were made offences under Sections 66 r/w.43 of the I.T. Act and under Section 66C of

the I.T. Act. So, the said illegal acts said to have been 28 CMR, J. committed by the accused are covered by the I.T. Act and they

are made punishable. Therefore, in view of the law laid down

in the aforesaid judgments of the Apex Court and the Bombay

High Court, they cannot be again prosecuted for the same

acts committed by them under Sections 403 and 408 of IPC.

Facts of the case also do not constitute any offences

punishable under Section 420 and Section 477A of IPC. 37. Therefore, the registration of the F.I.R. for the

offences punishable under Sections 403 , 408 , 420 and 477-A of IPC is unsustainable under law. Ergo, the F.I.R. to that

extent is liable to be quashed. 38. Upon considering the facts and circumstances of the

case and the prima facie evidence that is collected during the

course of investigation, this Court found that the facts of the

case clearly constitute the offences punishable under Sections 66 r/w.43(a) and (b) and under Section 66C of the

I.T. Act. It is well settled law that when the F.I.R. discloses

commission of a cognizable offence and when the facts of the

case constitute a particular offence, the investigation

cannot be interdicted and the F.I.R. cannot be quashed.

The investigation shall be allowed to go on to find out the

truth or otherwise of the said allegations. It is also settled

law that the power, under Section 482 Cr.P.C. or under

Article 226 of the Constitution of India, of the High Court to

thwart the investigation and to quash the F.I.R. is to be very

sparingly exercised with circumspection only in rare and 29 CMR, J. exceptional cases. Only when it is found that the facts of the

case taken at its face value do not even constitute any

offence, then only the Court would be justified in quashing

the F.I.R. Truth of the matter as per the allegations set out in

the F.I.R. cannot be gone into in a petition filed under Section

482 Cr.P.C. or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India

seeking quash of the F.I.R. The same is to be only

ascertained during the course of investigation and if at all

charge-sheet is filed, by the trial Court in the final

adjudication of the case. The said legal position has been

fairly well settled by the Apex Court in plethora of judicial

pronouncements. 39. In the case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal2 , it is

held that the power to quash criminal proceedings should be

exercised sparingly and in rarest of rare cases and reliability

of allegations made in F.I.R. or complaint not to be examined. 40. The present case as regards the offences under the

I.T. Act is concerned, is not falling within the parameters laid

down in the above judgment for quash of F.I.R. 41. In the case of State of Orissa v. Ujjal Kumar

Burdhan5 also the Supreme Court held that the extraordinary

power of the High Court to quash the F.I.R. or to interfere

with the investigation has to be exercised sparingly with

circumspection where the allegations in the F.I.R. even on its

face value do not constitute any offence and that the High 5 (2012) 4 SCC 547 30 CMR, J. Court should be loath to interfere at early/pre-mature stage

of investigation. Also held that investigation is necessary to

test the veracity of the alleged offence and interference

causing hindrance to investigation without any supervening

circumstances, in a casual manner, amounts to miscarriage

of justice, which is unsustainable. 42. In the judgment of Scoda Auto Volkswagen India

Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh6 , relied on by the learned

Government Pleader for Home, the Three-Judge Bench of the

Apex Court held that the criminal proceedings ought not to be

scuttled at the initial stage and quashing of complaint should

rather be an exception and a rarity than an ordinary rule. 43. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

petitioners contended that as there is an employment

agreement between A1 to A3 being the employees and their

employer i.e. VEMPL that at best the alleged acts committed

by A1 to A3 amount to committing breach of agreement and it

gives rise to only a civil liability and criminal prosecution even

for extracting the data illegally in breach of confidentiality

as per the terms of the agreement is not maintainable.

Also contends that as there is a clause for arbitration in case

of any dispute arises out of the said agreement that the

parties have to work out their remedy by resorting to

arbitration and criminal prosecution is not an appropriate

remedy. 6 2020 SCC OnLine SC 958 31 CMR, J. 44. The said contention has no merit. Mere fact that

the alleged acts give rise to a civil liability cannot be a valid

ground to quash the criminal proceedings when the facts also

constitute offences under the I.T. Act and the accused are

fastened with criminal liability. 45. The Apex Court in the case of Trisuns Chemical

Industry v. Rajesh Agarwal7 held that criminal prosecution

cannot be thwarted merely because civil proceedings are also

maintainable. Also held that existence of arbitration clause

in the contract for supply of goods held not sufficient for

quashing the complaint in a case registered under Sections

415 and 420 of IPC. It is held that arbitrator is not

competent to adjudge an offence. The same proposition is

also laid down by the Apex Court in the case of S.W. Palanitkar v. State of Bihar8 . Therefore, the said

contention holds no water. 46. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

petitioners would also contend that as per Section 78 of the

I.T. Act an officer not below the rank of Inspector of Police has

to investigate the case and as the Sub-Inspector of Police

registered the F.I.R. and has been investigating the case that

the investigation is vitiated. 47. Learned Government Pleader for Home would

submit that as the report was lodged with the Station House 7 (1999) 8 SCC 686 8 (2002) 1 SCC 241 32 CMR, J. Officer of Kankipadu Police Station, Vijayawada City, that the

same was registered by the Sub-Inspector of Police, who was

the Station House Officer at that time. He submits that the

investigation is being done by the Inspector of Police in

compliance with Section 78 of the I.T. Act. 48. Registration of F.I.R. can be made by an officer, who

is the Station House Officer at the time when the report was

lodged with the Police. So, registration of the F.I.R. by the

Sub-Inspector of Police, who was the Station House Officer by

then, is perfectly valid under law. Section 78 of the I.T. Act

only ordains that the investigation shall be done by the officer

not below the rank of Inspector of Police. As it is stated by

the learned Government Pleader for Home on instructions

that the investigation is now being done by the Inspector of

Police, it is not contrary to the mandate of Section 78 of the

I.T. Act. CONCLUSION: 49. To sum up, the facts of the case coupled with the

prima facie evidence that is available on record as discussed

supra, prima facie, constitute an offence punishable under Sections 66 r/w.43(a) and (b) and Section 66C of the I.T. Act

against A1 to A3 and the facts also constitute an offence

punishable under Sections 66 r/w.43(a) of the I.T. Act against

A4 and A5. Therefore, the F.I.R. in respect of the said

offences is not liable to be quashed against the petitioners. 33 CMR, J. However, as the petitioners are not found to be liable for

prosecution for the offences punishable under Sections

120-B , 403 , 408 , 420 , 477A of IPC, the F.I.R. to that extent is

liable to be quashed. 50. Resultantly, the Writ Petition is partly allowed

quashing the F.I.R. registered for the offences punishable

under Sections 120-B , 403 , 408 , 420 , 477A of IPC. The F.I.R.

in respect of the offences punishable under Sections 66 r/w

43 of the I.T. Act and Section 66C of the I.T. Act holds good.

The investigation in respect of the said offences shall go on. 51. The interim order earlier granted on 04.06.2021

staying the investigation stands vacated. No costs. As a sequel, miscellaneous petitions, if any pending, in this

Writ Petition, shall stand closed. _________________________________________
 CHEEKATI MANAVENDRANATH ROY, J. 31 January, 2022. st

Note:- * HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE CHEEKATI MANAVENDRANATH ROY

 + Writ Petition No.10882 of 2021

% Dated 31-01-2022. # V.Narendra Babu and 4 others
 ..... Petitioners
Versus

$ 1. The State of A.P., rep. by its Principal Secretary, Home Department,
Secretariat, Velagapudi, Amaravati, Guntur & 3 others
 ..Respondents

! Counsel for the petitioners : Sri Dammalapati Srinivas,
 Senior Counsel, representing
 Sri P.Durga Prasad

^ Counsel for respondent Nos.1 to 3: Govt. Pleader for Home

^ Counsel for respondent No.4: Sri B.Adinarayana Rao,
 Senior Counsel, representing
 Sri K.Nithin Krishna

<GIST: IN THE HIGH COURT OF THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH

 Writ Petition No.10882 of 2021

V.Narendra Babu and 4 others
 ..... Petitioners
Versus 1. The State of A.P., rep. by its Principal Secretary, Home Department,
Secretariat, Velagapudi, Amaravati, Guntur & 3 others
 ..Respondents

JUDGMENT PRONOUNCED ON: 31-01-2022

 HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE CHEEKATI MANAVENDRANATH ROY 1. Whether Reporters of Local newspapers ---
 may be allowed to see the Judgments? 2. Whether the copies of judgment may be marked -Yes-
 to Law Reporters/Journals 3. Whether His Lordship wish to see the fair copy of -Yes-
 the Judgment? JUSTICE CHEEKATI MANAVENDRANATH ROY