The now-defunct- cryptocurrency exchange FTX has filed a lawsuit against Binance and its former CEO Changpeng Zhao for $1.76 billion. According to the lawsuit document, FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried transferred this money to FTX’s equity holder, Binance, in the form of a share repurchase deal. A share repurchase deal is where a company buys back its own shares from the open market. The lawsuit claims that the share repurchase deal was a fraudulent transaction because Bankman-Fried carried it out to further his scheme to commit fraud. Additionally, it says that Zhao’s tweets about FTX in 2022 caused a bank run on the company.

Earlier this year, Bankman-Fried was sentenced to 25 years in prison for misusing customer funds. The US courts have also found the FTX founder previously guilty of wire fraud, securities fraud, conspiracy to commit commodities fraud, and conspiracy to commit money laundering.

The lawsuit states that in 2019, Binance acquired a 20% equity stake in FTX, purchasing it through a million Binance exchange tokens (BNB). Later in 2020, when Bankman-Fried expanded his company under the umbrella of WRS, Binance bought an 18.4% stake in this business for two dollars.

Finally, in 2021, Binance sold its stake in FTX and WRS back, but since FTX was insolvent at the time and couldn’t afford to buy back the stake, it did so by spending about $1 billion of FTX depositors’ capital to do so. The transaction closed at BNB tokens’ fair market value at the time which was $1.76 billion. The lawsuit document goes on to say that given the fact that FTX was insolvent when the transaction happened, the shares repurchased were worthless.

“Having divested himself of his equity stake in his rival FTX, Zhao then set out to destroy his now-unaffiliated competitor,” the lawsuit suggests. Around the time of the share repurchase in 2021, Binance was facing accusations of skirting banking and securities regulations, it explains. Then in 2022, governments around the world began considering crypto regulation and FTX/Bankman-Fried adopted a pro-regulation stance.

On the other hand, Binance and Zhao had a pro-decentralisation stance. “Some crypto influencers, who, upon information and belief, were partially funded by Binance, published explosive tweets calculated to turn customers against FTX, in part because of its public support for crypto regulation,” the lawsuit explains. FTX management was suspicious that Binance was engaging in a coordinated campaign to spread fear, uncertainty, and doubt against it.

The lawsuit further claims that FTX suspected that Binance leaked details of Alameda Research’s financials (which was a firm closely tied to FTX) to the crypto news platform CoinDesk around November 1. Then, on November 6, 2022, the Binance CEO made a series of false tweets to destroy FTX as the company was becoming a clear threat to Binance’s market dominance. These tweets documented that FTX share repurchase and also informed people that Binance was planning on getting rid of any FTX exchange tokens (FTTs) on its books.

“Zhao’s false tweets triggered a predictable avalanche of withdrawals at FTX – the proverbial run on the bank that Zhao knew would cause FTX to collapse,” the lawsuit document adds. On November 6 and November 7, 2022, FTX.com and FTX.US. exchanges processed approximately $6 billion in net customer withdrawals, with many of the customers withdrawing more than 90% of their account values. The lawsuit also claims that around the same time, Binance saw significant growth with a surge in new years, an increase in trading volume and liquidity, and a significant increase in its market share.

FTX’s lawsuit adds that to make matters worse, Zhao made additional tweets to prevent FTX from seeking alternative funding to deal with the situation. Notably, on November 8, 2022 , Zhao tweeted that FTX and Binance had signed a non-binding letter of intent (LOI) to buy FTX. Based on this FTX halted communications with other potential investors. On November 9, while FTX was still working on doing due diligence to carry this deal forward, Binance put out a tweet saying that it was backing out “as a result of corporate due diligence”.

The lawsuit argues that based on these circumstances it becomes apparent that Binance was never planning to go through with the deal. Shortly after, the Securities Commission of Bahamas (where FTX was based) petitioned for winding down FTX operations.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event