Per Omkareshwar Chidara (AM) :- 2. In this background, let us analyse the facts mentioned by Learned
Assessing Officer (Ld. AO for short) in the assessment order (a) It is mentioned by Ld. AO that there is a search and seizure
 operation conducted by Income Tax Investigation Directorate u/s. 132 in the premises of Shri S.C. Shah at Ahmedabad and during the
 operations, the Income Tax Department found certain incriminating
 material which shows that Mr. Shah was providing factitious entries to
 various persons based on which the beneficiaries claim false
 2 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

exemptions u/s. 10(38) . It was also mentioned that Mr. Shah managed
bogus LTCG during A.Y. 2011-12 and 2012-13 to many clients in the
shares of M/s. Prraneta Industries Ltd. (PIL for short), formerly known
as Aadhaar Venture Ltd., which is controlled by him. b) The assessee purchased shares of the company through stock
exchange. The contract notes of broker which evidences the purchase
and sale of shares was submitted to the Ld. AO. The concerned Demat
account also was filed. The assessee has further mentioned that all the
transactions were done through banking channels. c) A statement was recorded by Ld. AO and the assessee repeated
the above averments before Ld. AO. d) But, the assessee could not say how the share price of M/s PIL
went up by seven times within a period of slightly more than a year
despite the fact the company's financial fundamentals were weak and
the profit of the company are negligible which is paramount for
increase in share price. e) The Ld. AO mentioned that there are certain search and seizure
operation conducted by Kolkata Investigation Directorate on several
brokers/entry/exit operators who in collusion were artificially jacking
up small company shares without fundamentals by using more than
70 shell companies. There are more than 80 penny stocks which were
involved in this scam and beneficiaries are scatted all over the country.
Prraneta Industries Ltd. is one of such penny stock which is
manipulated, as per Ld. AO. At para 6, Ld. AO gave the modus
operandi of share operators and benefit various assessees to claim
LTCG and short term capital loss through stock exchange forum. f) The Ld. AO analysed the share transactions of M/s. PIL, which
changed its name to Aadhaar Ventures India Ltd. g) The Ld. AO at pages 7 to 10, gave the details of balance sheet
and profit and loss account of M/s. PIL, the company's share
purchased by assessee, for the years 2008 to 2018 almost 10 years. 3 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

For all these years, the EPS i.e. earnings per share is "Zero", almost no
taxable profits, no finance cost, no manpower expenses, total income
and expenditure is almost same. h) The assessee had been investing in other shares like Bajaj
Group, ICICI, BEL etc. and the profits are market related and in none
of these big companies shares, the assessee got astronomical profits
like the penny stock of M/s. Prraneta Industries Ltd., even though
other companies invested by him are having sound management which
is time-tested and had very strong economic fundamentals. i) The Ld. AO at para 8.6 concluded that the share price of PIL was
rigged as per SEBI's findings. He further says that the share price
skyrocketed despite not having awesome profit, EBIDTA margin, bonus
and dividend history. The share price was increased due to circular
trading by a cartel of brokers using shell companies. After all this
circumstantial evidence and applying the theory of "test of human
probabilities", the Ld. AO held that the artificial price hike of shares is
pre-planned one to get undue benefit by misusing the exemption u/s.
10(38) of the I.T. Act. j) The Ld. AO at page No. 22 of the assessment order has
mentioned that the share transactions were not governed by market
factors prevalent at relevant time of such trade, but were the product
of design and mutual connivance on the part of assessee and operator. k) The Ld. AO, has opined that the assessee is not able to prove the
unusual rise and fall of shares to be natural and is based on the
market forces. It is evident that such share transactions were closed
circuit transactions and clearly structured ones. l) the Ld. AO further stated at para 10 as follows :- "10. The facts and circumstances of the case, as recorded above,
 clearly suggest that the revenue cannot take or accept such make-
 believe transactions, as presented by the assessee. As mentioned
 above, the jamakarchi companies and the group entities are directly
 involved in jacking up the prices of shares of the assessee to provide
 undue benefits to the assessee. Truth or genuineness of such
 4 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

 transactions must prevail over the smoke screen, created by way of
 pre-meditated series of steps taken by the assessee, with a view to
 impart a color of genuineness and. character of commercial nature,
 to such share transactions. Needless to say that one has to look at
 the whole transactions and a series of steps taken to accomplish
 such share transactions, in an integrated manner, with a view to
 ascertaining the true nature and character of such purchase and
 sale of shares. The whole transactions are to be viewed after looking
 into facts unearthed during search and survey proceedings on
 many brokers/agents/dummy directors of jamakarchi companies,
 the results of these actions repeatedly point out the dummy
 activities carried out by the market agent. This conclusion drawn
 is not based on any assumption, but, supported with all the
 evidences, facts and admissions by dummy clients leading to cartel
 of group entities." m) Finally, the Ld. AO relied on the decisions of Mcdowell Ltd. Vs.
 CTO (154 ITR 148) (SC) for the proposition that tax planning is allowed
 under law, but not clourable devices created to give a colour of
 genuineness is permissible. n) The Ld. AO has made an addition of Rs. 331,61,224/- as
 unexplained income u/s. 68 of the Income Tax Act. i) As the Ld. AO opined that all the tax exemptions are structured
 deals to get under tax exemption, payment of commission to
 operators/brokers is only corollary and hence 2% commission is quite
 reasonable and added to Rs. 6,63,224/- as unexplained expenditure
 u/s. 69C of the Act and completed assessment. 3. Aggrieved by the above additions u/s. 68 and section 69C , denying the
exemptions u/s. 10(38) , the assessee filed an appeal with the following
grounds with the Ld. CIT(A), who passed an appeal order u/s. 250 of the Act
on 24.12.2018 confirming the additions made by Ld. AO. 4. Before the Ld. CIT(A), the assessee filed submissions as follows :- 10(38) of LTCG and payment of commission u/s. 69C , have no basis as the
shares were purchased through a reputed broker, on the recognised stock
 5 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

exchange and payments and receipts towards purchased and sale of shares
were made through banking channels. b) The assessee got LTCG as per provisions of Income Tax paid securities
transaction Tax as per law. c) The Ld. AO made additions without any evidence and the arguments of
Ld. AO are based on conjectures and surmises. d) the reopening of assessment is bad in law and without jurisdiction. 5. In his order, the Ld. CIT(A) mentioned at para 4 page 3 that the
assessee had the reasons to reopen the assessment and making additions. As
per law, the Ld. AO had "Reason to Believe" that the income escaped tax
because he got information from Mumbai Investigation Directorate that the
assessee took accommodation entries from Mr. Shirish Chandrakant C. Shah
with regard to bogus penny stock transactions. It was also mentioned that
Ahemedabad Investigation Directorate conducted search and seizure
operations and found that he was using several shell companies and
manipulating shares of insignificant companies to give accommodation
entries to various persons all-over the country, to claim bogus exemption u/s. 10(38) of the Act. So, the Ld. CIT(A) held that the reopening of
assessment by Ld. AO is valid. 6. Before the Ld. CIT(A), the assessee further mentioned that he does not
know Mr. Shirish Shah and purchased the shares through broker on stock
exchange and paid consideration through cheque. Copies of Broker's
contract notes relating to purchase and sale of shares on various dates
alongwith details of rate at which shares were sold, were filed before the Ld.
CIT(A). It was submitted by the assessee before the Ld. CIT(A) that section 68 is not applicable in his case the transactions are properly recorded in the
books of account, all three ingredients of identity, creditworthiness and
genuineness of transaction were established by him beyond doubt. Reliance
was placed on some cases law where addition in similar circumstances (in
 6 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

assessee's opinion) was deleted by appellate authorities. In view of the same,
the assessee pleaded before the Ld. CIT(A) to delete all the additions. 7. After perusing the cases-law and material filed before him, the Ld.
CIT(A) did not agree with the submissions of assessee and confirmed the
additions made by Ld. AO with following observations : and sold the same within a short span of 12 to 13 months and received
 Rs. 3,31,61,224/-, i.e. more than 700% gain was claimed which is
 peculiar and abnormal gain. b) The Ld. AO's comments about detailed search and seizure operations
 by Investigation Wing of Kolkata, Ahemedabad and Mumbai, had to be
 taken into consideration where incriminating materials were found and
 seized relating to manipulation of 84 penny stocks, without financial
 fundamentals, were rigged and accommodation entries were provided
 to several assessees all over the country by using more than 70 shell
 companies and structured deals on the floor of stock exchange. c) The documents filed by assessee are mere masks to hide the real
 nature of transactions. d) The findings of Ld. AO are based on strong surrounding circumstances
 and preponderance of probabilities and hence addition was confirmed. e) Initial investment of unknown credentials and weak financials and
 subsequent jump in the share price of the company cannot be an
 accident or windfall but because of manipulation in price of shares in a
 pre-planned manner by interested broker and entry operators. f) The Ld. CIT(A) held that initial onus lies on the assessee to prove how
 the share price M/s. PIL went up astronomically high within 12 to 13
 months even though there are no profits in that company, the EPS is
 Zero, no taxes are paid. It only after discharging this onus, the onus
 shifts to Ld. AO to disprove the documents filed by assessee that they
 are not genuine. 7 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h g) The Ld. CIT(A) relied on the cases of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain, Hon'ble
 Jurisdictional Bombay High Court where it was held that if the price of
 scrip goes up multi-fold within a short span without corresponding
 financials and profits, the transaction should be held as sham. As the
 facts and circumstances are same, the ratio laid down by Hon'ble High
 Court of Bombay is applied and the addition is confirmed. h) Thus, the Ld. CIT(A) confirmed the additions made by the Ld. AO after
 perusing all the material before him and after taking into consideration
 all the decisions available with him. 8. Aggrieved by the orders of Ld. AO and the Ld. CIT(A), the appellant filed
further appeal before this Tribunal with the following grounds of appeal :- 9 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h 11. As far as the reopening of the assessment, no adjudication is done here
as the assessee filed "written submissions" on 10.10.2023 in which it was
stated that the assessee is not pressing grounds regarding reopening of the
assessment. Hence, these grounds of appeal 1 to 3 are dismissed as
withdrawn 12. Then, coming to addition relating to section 68 and denial of exemption
claimed by assessee u/s. 10(38) is to be adjudicated. 13. The addition made by Ld. AO, confirmed by the Ld. CIT(A) is upheld for
the following reasons. a) From the "Statement of Facts" filed by assessee before the Ld. CIT(A) it
is observed that the assessee invested almost Rs. 45 crores in 5 years
(cumulatively) and earned a net profit of approximately Rs. 3 crores (after
setting off of losses) in shares, both long term and short term. The
investments are in prominent company shares and assessee got market-
related profits and is reliable and understandable. Now, compare the same
with the investment claimed to have been made by assessee in the impugned
A.Y. Rs. 40 lakhs was approximately claimed to have been invested in M/s.
Prraneta Industries Ltd. and within 12 to 13 months, and got a LTCG of Rs.
3.5 crores, a whopping 900% plus and that too the shares which are tainted
as per the Investigation of Kolkata and Ahemedabad Investigation Directorate
of Income Tax. This is against the theory of human probability propounded
by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mcdowell, Durga Prasad More and
Sumati Dayal (214 ITR 80)(SC). b) The claim of assessee is that he does not know the operator of share
Mr. Shirish Shah. In this type of cases, there is no need of knowing the
persons directly and there are intermediaries only for the purpose of
converting black money into the white and bringing into the books, which is
popularly known as "Colourable Device". The Ld. AO, at length has discussed
 10 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

the presence of intermediaries and operators and search and seizure
operations conducted on them. c) Let us examine the case through the lense of price mechanism of
shares vis-à-vis the intrinsic value of company fundamentals. The Ld. AO, in
the assessment order has given the fundamental of scrip, M/s. PIL,
purchased by assessee. (Later name changed to Aadhar Ventures India Ltd.)
and the same are analysed as under : 11 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

 findings, the authorities have followed the test laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court and this court in several decisions................". d) We do not agree with the appellant's contention that the entire
assessment order is based on report of Investigation as we find that the
order of the Ld. AO is based on independent analysis of material facts
available on record. Of course, the Ld. AO has referred to and has taken
support of investigation wing of the department, ITD data, BSE data, money
control website, taxman, court ruling, internet and findings of the SEBI but
the Ld. AO has applied his mind and cogently put all the facts and
circumstances of the case. The appellant by raising such grounds, it appears
to us, wants to take shelter under such documentary evidences which
themselves have been created as masks to cover the true nature of
transaction. A genuine transaction must be proved to be genuine in all
respect. The onus was on the appellant to prove that the transaction leading
to claim LTCG was distinctly genuine transaction and not bogus,
premeditated transaction arranged with a view to evade taxes. The onus was
on the appellant to prove that M/s. Prraneta Industries Ltd. (formerly known
as Aadhar Venture India Ltd.) was a company whose scrips were capable of
being traded at high price as it was the appellant who had traded in the
shares of the this company which resulted in a claim of long term capital
gains exempted under section 10 (38) . Once the appellant was issued show
cause notice which strongly suggested that trading of shares leading to
LTCG was not genuine, the onus was on the assessee to prove that he has
earned genuine LTCG under section 101 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1972 as
it is the assessee who is asserting a claim that he was engaged in genuine
share transactions. It is relevant to note here that Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the case of Shri Charan Singh versus Chandra Bhan Singh AIR 1988 SC 637
has clarified that the burden of proof relies on the party who substantially
asserts the affirmative of the issue and not upon the party who denies it. It
has been further held that the party cannot, on failure to establish a prima
facie case, take advantage of the weakness of his adversary's case. The party
 12 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

must succeed by the strength of his own right and the clearness of his own
proof. He cannot be heard to say that it was too difficult or virtually
impossible to prove the matter in question. e) The Ld. AR has placed reliance on the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High
Court's decisions of PCIT Vs. Indravadan Jain HUF and PCIT Vs. Ziauddin A
Siddique for the proposition that where the transactions were done through
stock exchange and banks, the claim of assessee should be accepted. But, in
those cases, the fundamental financials of scrip, which is very important to
determine the share price were not discussed and hence distinguishable. In
the impugned case on hand, Ld. AO, extensively discussed the financials of
scrip and demonstrated that the share can never command such high price
in normal circumstances. Wherever there are abnormal gains, the onus
would lie on the assessee to prove the abnormal circumstances, and here the
assessee has not discharged his onus. The price manipulations were
discussed by Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court of Bombay in Sanjay
Bimalchand Jain, mentioned above and Hon'ble High Court confirmed the
addition of Ld. AO and denied the claim of assessee with respect to LTCG u/s. 10(38) . As the impugned case on hand circumstances are similar to this
case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain, reliance is placed on this case and addition
is confirmed. f) Securities Exchange Board of India SEBI, has restrained Mr. Shirish
C. Shah and others from accessing to share market for a period of 2 years
for manipulating several penny stocks, as punishment, vide its order dated
14.1.2009 for creating artificial volumes in share market on stock exchange
in violation of Regulation 4(a) to (d) of SEBI Regulations 1995. As mentioned
in the beginning of the order, in the premises of Mr. Shirish C. Shah, a
search and seizure operation was conducted by Ahmedabad Investigation
Directorate of Income Tax where incriminating material was found relating to
manipulating of several penny stocks and he was found to be giving
 13 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

accommodation entries to several parties all over country to claim bogus
exemption u/s. 10(38) of the Act. g) The menace of obtaining bogus LTCG through penny stocks was
recognised by Central Board of Direct Taxes, CBDT which works under
Ministry of Finance and it has directed the Income Tax Department to
contest the decisions of the Ld. CIT(A)/ITAT/High Court on merits by filing
appeals in all penny stock cases, even if the tax effect is less than the
threshold fixed for filing appeals. h) Thus, from the cases relied on in this order, it can be seen that the
scam of penny stocks had spread its wings from Delhi to Chennai and
Gujarat to Gauhati i.e, all over the country, the Tribunals/courts held the
decisions in favour of Department, in several cases SBI/SAT have penalised
the operators, thousands of assessees have opted for Vivad Se Vishwas
Scheme of Government and withdrew appeals of penny stock, pending in
appeal at that time. Subsequent to this scam, the Income Tax Act was
amended by extending the period of holding of share to claim LTCG. 14. Following judicial decisions are relied upon to confirm the addition
made by Ld. AO in the similar circumstances :- The assessee's contention that investigation report of DGIT(Inv) Kolkata
was not furnished to her and cross-examination opportunity was not
provided to her was dealt by Hon'ble Kolkata High Court and it was held that
these issues will not vitiate proceedings of Revenue nor they are required to
be given to assessee because the respective AOs have clearly mentioned the
nature of investigation done stating that the investigation was commenced
not from assessee's end but the individuals who dealt with these penny
stocks were targeted. It is equally true that the assessee could not establish
the prejudice caused to them for not giving opportunity to cross-examine
them. (Paras 55 to 67 of Hon'ble High Court decision). Thus, not giving cross-examination opportunity did not and would not
vitiate the proceedings as whatever information to be given to each assessee,
was already given and necessary notices u/s. 143(2) / 142(1) mentioned
required particulars by the concerned Assessing Officers. Thus, full
 15 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

opportunity was afforded to the assessee, held by Hon'ble Kolkata High
Court. The next argument of the assessee is that they were not implicated in
the Investigation report also does not hold much water, it was held in the
following words :- The Hon'ble Kolkata High Court has dealt with this issue of section 68 by relying on various decisions like N.R. Portfolio Pvt. Ltd., A Govindarajulu
 16 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h Mudaliar Vs. CIT 205 ITR 802 (SC), Full Bench decision of Sophia Finance
Ltd. 205 ITR 98 (Del), Nova Promoters Finlease (P) Ltd. 342 ITR 169 (Del), CIT
Vs. Nipun Builders Ltd. 350 ITR 407 and held that mere issuance of cheque
and providing bank detail would not be sufficient to discharge the liability of
assessee in view of the link between entry providers and incriminating
evidence. In this case of Swati Bajaj, Hon'ble Kolkata High Court has mentioned
that several assessees who were involved in this penny stock scam all over
the country availed Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme, paid taxes and withdrew their
appeals pending at various stages at that time. In this case of Swati Bajaj, the Ld. CIT(A) has confirmed the addition
made by AO by holding that payments were made through bank,
transactions were done through stock exchange and other features are only
apparent features and the real feature were manipulated with abnormal price
upwards and sudden dip thereafter and held that the transactions would fall
within the realm of suspicious and dubious transaction. Thus, the Ld. CIT(A)
concludes by holding that considering the facts of the assessee's case and the
preponderance of probabilities against the assessee, the entire capital gains
demand has to be treated as fictitious and bogus more particularly when the
assessee has not furnished cogent evidence to explain how the shares in an
unknown company jumped up so fast and such fantastic sale price was not
at all possible when there was no economic or financial basis to justify the
price rise and therefore affirmed the order passed by the AO. Aggrieved by
the order of the Ld. CIT(A), the assessee filed appeal to ITAT, and then the
matter travelled to High Court and Hon'ble Kolkata High Court delivered a
landmark judgement on the lines mentioned above. As the contentions and
issues are similar to that of our impugned assessee, reliance is placed on this
decision. (2) In the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain, 89 Taxman.com 196 (Bom),
Hon'ble Bombay High Court held as follows :- 17 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

 "In this case, the assessee had purchased shares from the penny stock
 companies for a lower amount and within a year, sold such shares at
 higher amount and the assessee has not tendered cogent evidence to
 explain as to why shares in unknown company jumped to such a higher
 amount in no time and also failed to provide details of persons, who
 purchased the said shares, the transaction was held to be an attempt to
 hedge the undisclosed income as LTCG. It was also held that the assessee
 had indulged in a dubious share transaction meant to account for
 undisclosed income in the garb of long term capital gains and thus,
 exemption u/s. 10(38) could not be granted to the assessee. In this
 Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court's case, the broker did not respond to the
 notices issued by the AO, whereas in our impugned case, the alleged
 buyers of shares did not respond to notices issued by Ld. AO. As the
 circumstances are similar, addition made by the AO had to be confirmed.
 In this case of Mr. Sanjay Jain also, assessee was not afforded any right to
 cross-examination, and assessee claimed that the transactions were done
 through bank and stock exchange, but Hon'ble Bombay High Court still
 confirmed the addition made by the AO." (The price of the penny stock
 went up astronomically from Rs. 5 to Rs. 485/- as mentioned earlier in
 this order). (3) Similarly, Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of NDR Promoters (P)
Ltd. held that where the assessee created lot of paper work to camouflage the
transactions of bogus nature to look like genuine, there is no need of cross-
examination. (4) Reliance is placed on Hon'ble Delhi High Court's decision of Suman
Poddar Vs. PCIT , where it was held that the share transactions were bogus
because the company whose shares allegedly purchased were of penny stock
and this decision was affirmed by Hon'ble Supreme Court vide 112
taxman.com 330 (SC)(2019). The Hon'ble court has opined that in this type of
cases, cross-examination opportunity is not required because statements and
other material found in the course of investigation were used as a
corroborative material to strengthen the findings of AO. The AO made the
addition based on several factors and analysis to prove that there is no
genuineness in the transaction and utilised the statements of operators as
corroborative evidence only. 18 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

(5) Reliance is placed on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of SEBI Vs. Kishore R. Ajmera (2016) 66 taxman.com 288 for the
proposition that direct evidence is not material, and it was held as follows:- (6) In the case of CIT Vs. Pushpa Malpani , Hon'ble Gujarat High Court,
dismissed the Revenue's appeal in the case of Penny stock on the ground
that the broker in question was not banned by SEBI. Conversely, in our case
on hand, the AO, in the impugned assessment order has mentioned that the
operators were banned from trading for a particular period. Hence, the
addition made by the AO on this ground, is confirmed. (7) Similarly, in the case of SEBI Vs. Mega Corporation Ltd. 136
taxman.com 333, while dealing with a case of income earned through price
manipulations of share, held that right to cross-examination of a person who
gave a complaint, was rejected by Hon'ble Supreme Court. (8) In the case of Smt. Thara Kumari Vs. PCIT, Hon'ble Madras High Court
upheld the addition made by the AO by disallowing the exemption claimed by
assessee u/s. 10(38) because the price of scrip M/s. Luminaries Technologies
Ltd., was artificially jacked up after referring to the report of Investigation
 19 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

Directorate of Kolkata. Similar is the scrip "Splash Media & Infra Ltd." in the
case on hand and accordingly reliance is placed on this decision to uphold
the addition made by AO. (9) In the case of Udit Kalra ITA No. 220/2009, Hon'ble Delhi High Court
held that the company had meagre resources at disposal, negligible profit,
but there was unusual and very high growth in the share price which does
not support the same, the transaction was held to be sham. (10) In the case of Sanat Kumar Vs. ACIT Delhi, Circle 36(1), Hon'ble ITAT
Delhi Bench has held that the so-called sale proceed of shares received and
claimed as exempt u/s. 10(38) was held to be sham transaction because of
huge price rise of shares at the time of sale despite the fact that company's
profits are negligible and did not support such price rise. (11) In the case of Satish Kishore Vs. ITO Delhi, ITA No. 1704 of 2019 dated
6.8.2019, Hon'ble ITAT Delhi has held that the transactions of penny stock
are manipulated ones to get arranged benefits to claim false exemption u/s.
10(38) because there is a cartel of brokers involved in jacking up the scrip
without corresponding profit/prospects of company. All the contentions of
assessee that he was not given cross-examination opportunity, transactions
were done through stock exchange and money received through banking
channels were considered and then only the exemption u/s. 10(38) was
denied because these affairs are all pre-conceived and arranged affairs which
lack genuineness. The same decision was rendered in the case of Sandeep
Bhargava Vs. ACIT Delhi , 109 taxman.com 174 (Delh-Trib). (12) In the case of Hitendra Ghadia Vs. DCIT, Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai, it was
held that issuance of bonus shares and splitting of shares happens only
when there is huge demand for shares and there is high profitability and
liquidity in shares. In these cases, to make share available to every interested
investor and to unleash the maximum possible value of shares, giant
 20 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

companies of respective industries carry such type of practice. A company
with negligible investor base, negligible networth and profit and alomost
'Zero' EPS, adopting such type of splitting shares is not digestible from
layman point of view and all these are abnormal phenomena, especially when
the Kolkata Investigation Wing of Income Tax Department held such
transactions as sham only to get fraudulent benefit u/s. 10(38) of the Act.
The scrip which skyrocketed was classified by SEBI as "Penny Stock" like
that of our case. After taking into consideration all the contentions of
transactions through banking channel, stock market cross-examination
opportunity was not given were considered and it was held to be sham
transaction. Similar decisions were rendered by the Coordinate Benches of
Mumbai in the following cases too :- 21 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

trade 50 times its face value, in the absence of trail blazing performance or
great business prospects in future, by all counts, it is a paper company and
reverse the findings of first appellate authority and confirm the impugned
sum u/s. 68 of the I.T. Act. (14) In the case of M.K. Rajeshwari Vs. ITO , the coordinate bench of the
Tribunal has held that while dealing the issue of long-term capital gain
accrued to the assessee, one has to examine the financials of the company
whose shares were inflated within a short period and after the sharp rise in
the price of shares, it again comes down. It was held as follows :- (15) In the case of Rajkumar B. Agarwal vs. DCIT (ITAT Pune), Bench "B"
ITA Nos. 1648 & 1649/PUN/15, it was held as follows :- 22 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

 the harsh reality (Sumati Dayal 214 ITR 801 (SC) & Durga Prasad More 82
 ITR 540 (SC) applied)". (16) In the case of Pooja Ajmani Vs. ITO (ITAT Delhi) April 25, 2019 ITA No.
5714/Del/2018, it was held as follows :- (17) Abhimanyu Soin Vs. Asst, Cit, Circle VII, Ludhiana, ITAT, Chandigarh,
Bench A, ITA No. 951/chd/2016

 "On consideration of the facts of the case as a whole it cannot be accepted
 that the assessee can have long term capital gains of Rs. 80,25,291/-
 within 17 months of buying of shares at Rs.2,72,000/- a non-descript
 company incorporated in 2007 which got merged in 2009. This cannot be
 a case of intelligent investment or a simple tax planning to gain benefit of
 long term capital gains". ( 18) Mrs Vidya Reddy Vs. ITO International Taxation, Ward-1 (2), Chennai
ITAT, D Bench, Chennai

 "All these trading patterns show that LTCG admitted by the assessee is
 arranged one. The payment of Security Transaction Tax was to paint credit
 worthiness to the transaction and claim exemption u/s. 10(38) . In view of
 the information provided by the Investigation wing, Kolkata, the
 recommendations of SIT on Black money etc, the AO required the assessee
 to prove her claim of exemption. After considering her reply etc. held inter
 alia that it is clear that the assessee has manipulated the sale of shares
 within a span of time in collusion with the brokers in order to earn tax free
 exempt Long term capital gain on sale of shares u/s 10(38) etc". (19) In the case of Somnath Maini Vs. CIT 306 ITR 414, the Hon'ble Punjab
& Haryana High Court, held that claim of genuineness of transactions can be
rejected even if the assessee backs the same with evidence which is not
trustworthy. Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Chandigarh, in the
case of Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Som Nath Maini by
 23 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Durga Prasad More (2002) 3 BOMLR 747, 2003 (1) MhLj 420 has observed as
under :- (20) Chennai ITAT in the case of Rajnish Agarwal Vs. ACIT has held that
the penny stock of SRK Industries Ltd. is not having any financial strength of
its own and the sale and purchase of these shares were held to be sham and
LTCG u/s. 10(38) was denied to the assessee. (21) Similarly, in the cases decided by various Tribunals of the country as
mentioned below also, have held that the penny stocks without financial
fundaments to support the astronomical price rise of hundreds of times
within short span of one to two years, are sham transactions and LTCG claim u/s. 10(38) was denied to them : 24.8.2016 h) Ratnakar M. Pujari Vs. ITO 9951/Mum/2012 dted 3.8.2016

(22) In the case of CIT(A) Vs. Jasvinder Kaur 357 ITR 638 also, Hon'ble
Gauhati High Court has held that price manipulations of penny stocks
 24 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

analysed by AO was on correct footing and held that assessee was not eligible
for LTCG u/s. 10(38) of the Act. 15. To sum up, the addition made by Ld. AO, is confirmed and the claim
of assessee LTCG u/s. 10(38) was denied because of : up. d) structured and pre-conceived trades on stock exchange. e) existence of exit providers, extensive investigation done by
 Kolkata Investigation Wing done after search and seizure
 operations by Income Tax Department. f) ban order on the operators of this scrip by SEBI/SAT. g) involvement of more than 70 shell companies in the scam. h) the Ld. AO made the addition based on all the above factors,
 facts and circumstances cumulatively narrated in assessment
 order and statements of operators is only one of the factor and
 supplementary to the main arguments of Ld. AO. 16. The Ld. AO has also made an addition of 2% commission payment
for getting accommodation entries etc. from various intermediaries As he
is a beneficiary to claim exemption of LTCG u/s. 10(38) . This 2%
commission amounting to Rs. 6,63,224/- is quite reasonable. As it is
already held that the transaction as not genuine and only make-believe
agreement, the payment of commission is corollary, the addition towards
commission is also upheld. Hence, the additions made with respect to
LTCG and commission payment are hereby confirmed. It is further held
 25 IT A N o . 2 0 6 4/ M u m/ 2 0 2 3
 K au s h ik C h an d r a v ad a n P a r i k h

that the order of the Ld. CIT(A) is quite logical and fact-based and hence
upheld. 17. The appeal of assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 26th July, 2024.