1. These two petitions are being disposed of by a common judgment as
the facts in the two petitions are similar and vide identical impugned orders
dated 9th July, 2013 learned Civil Judge dismissed the applications of the
petitioner under Order VII Rule 11 read with Section 151 CPC. 2. The respondents in the two petitions filed suits for declaration and
injunction against the petitioner/defendant praying for cancellation of the
sale deeds dated 2nd November, 1987. In the suits it was pleaded that Sohan
was the Bhumidar of agricultural land comprising in khasra No. 2125
measuring (4-16) in Suit No. 244/11 and khasra No. 2126 measuring (6-18)
situated in the revenue estate of village Rajokri in Suit No. 243/2011. After
the death of Sohan the ownership in the land devolved on his two sons i.e.
Prabhu and Hemraj having inherited one-half share each. Mutation was
sanctioned in favour of Prabhu and Hemraj in the revenue records. Hemraj
died on 22nd July, 1976 and after his death the said half portion of the land
was inherited by Mam Chand and late Ratan Lal the second son and father of
plaintiffs Charan Singh and Bhagwan Singh. In CS No. 244/11 Charan
Singh and Bhagwan Singh S/o of late Rattan Lal are the plaintiffs whereas in
CS No.243/11 Mam Chand, Charan Singh and Bhagwan Singh are the
plaintiffs. Rattan Lal F/o Charan Singh and Bhagwan Singh and brother of
Mam Chand died on 9th January, 1987. It is alleged that M/s. Visa Agro the
defendants in the suit and the petitioner herein in collusion with some
property dealers got executed and registered the sale deeds dated 2nd
November, 1987 with regard to properties as mentioned above. After the
execution and registration of the sale deeds dated 2nd November, 1987 of the
respective share of Rattan Lal and Hem Raj, the petitioner/defendant also got
sanctioned the mutation in its favour in revenue records on 21st November,
1988. It is stated that the thumb impression of late Hemraj and Rattan Lal on
the sale deeds were forged and fabricated as Hemraj and Rattan Lal S/o of
Sohan had died on 22nd July, 1976 and 9th January, 1987 respectively. It is
stated that the possession of suit property always remained with the plaintiffs C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 2 of 18 or their predecessor in interest and they were not in the knowledge of the
sale deeds dated 2nd November, 1987 or the mutation order dated 21st
November, 1988 as no notice was served to the plaintiffs or their predecessor
in interest. The sale deeds dated 2nd November, 1987 purported to be
executed by late Shri Rattan Lal and Hemraj predecessor in interest of the
plaintiffs was never executed as he was not alive on the date of execution of
the sale deeds. The plaintiffs/respondents came to know about the wholly
null and void transactions, transfer documents between January, 2010 to
September, 2010, they tried their best to find out the particulars and after
obtaining the certified copies of the sale deeds, mutation records etc., the
suits were filed and thus it was prayed that a decree, declaring the sale deeds
dated 2nd November, 1987 as null and void be passed. A decree of
permanent injunction in favour of the plaintiffs and against the
petitioner/defendant restraining from transferring, alienating or creating third
party interest in the suit properties was also prayed for. 3. In the written statement M/s. Visa Agro submitted that there was no
forgery in the sale deeds. The land holdings of khasra No. 2142(4-16) were
sold by Mam Chand, Rattan Lal and Prabhu on 2nd January, 1987 to Balbir
Singh who sold the same to M/s. Visa Agro on 2nd November, 1987. In CS
No. 243/11 it was stated in the written statement that plaintiff No.1/ Mam
Chand was a co-executant to the other sale deeds registered in favour of M/s.
Visa Agro in respect of land situated in Khasra No.2117 (2-11), 2118 (4-16),
2119 (4-16), 2125 (4-16) and 2146 (4-16) wherein he had included Rattan
Lal F/o Charan Singh and Bhagwan Singh as co-executant. All the sale
deeds were executed on 2nd November, 1987 and presented for registration
along with the sale deeds made in respect to Khasra No.2126 (3-9) and C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 3 of 18 Khasra No.2126 (3-9) both drawn, executed and registered in the name of
Hem Raj and Prabhu sons of Sohan. All the sale deeds were witnessed by a
resident of same village Rampat S/o Girdhari Lal who also sold his land
holdings in favour of M/s. Visa Agro. On the date of execution of the sale
deed i.e. 2nd November, 1987 in respect of khasra No. 2126 in the revenue
records, the land holdings were entered in the name of Hemraj and Prabhu.
Preliminary objections were taken with regard to the suit being barred by
limitation under Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act and Section 185 of the
Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954 (in short „the Act‟). 4. In the applications under Order VII Rule 11 CPC , M/s. Visa Agro,
inter alia, took the pleas that the suit seeking declaration and permanent
injunction to the extent of half shares in the suit properties was null and void.
The suits have been filed after a lapse of 24 years from the date of execution
of the sale deeds i.e. 2nd November, 1987. M/s. Visa Agro was in peaceful,
physical and vacant possession of the land in question and was the reported
owner of the land since 1988. The suits are thus patently barred by
limitation. Further the subject matter of the suits are agricultural land,
therefore cognizance of the suits cannot be taken by the Civil Court as the
same is barred under Section 185 of the Act. Thus, the suits are liable to be
rejected on this ground itself. As M/s. Visa Agro was the recorded bhumidar
in the revenue records and the challenge to the bhumadari rights was solely
governed by the provisions of the Act the suits were not maintainable. The
suits were grossly undervalued. Ad-valorem Court fees has also not been
paid. The pecuniary jurisdiction of the Trial Court to entertain the suits was
also challenged. Vide the impugned orders these applications were
dismissed and hence the present petitions. 5. Learned counsel for petitioner M/s. Visa Agro contends that the sale
deeds are one composite documents executed by two vendors in Civil Suit
No. 243/11 namely Hemraj and Prabhu and in Civil Suit No. 244/11 the joint
sale deed is by three vendors namely Mam Chand, Prabhu and Rattan Lal.
Civil Suit No. 244/11 has been filed only by Charan Singh and Bhagwan
Singh, both sons and legal heirs of Rattan Lal. There is no challenge to the
sale deed by Prabhu who was admittedly owner of one-half undivided share
of the land and Mam Chand who owned one-fourth undivided share. In
Civil Suit No. 243/11 the suit has been filed by Mam Chand S/o Hemraj and
Charan Singh and Bhagwan Singh, both sons of Rattan Lal all legal heirs of
Hemraj. There is no challenge to the sale deed by Prabhu who is admittedly
the owner of one-half undivided share in the land. It is thus pleaded that the
contract being one single, challenge by one or two parties to the execution is
invalid. The sale deed is one contract and is indefeasible in character.
Admittedly the sale deeds are registered documents, hence it is presumed
that the registration was done after complying with the provisions of Registration Act, 1908 . The suits were banned under Section 34 of the
Specific Relief Act. The condition precedent for registration of a sale deed
qua agricultural land i.e. a No Objection Certificate under the Delhi Land
(Restriction on Transfer) Act, 1972 was jointly obtained by two/three
vendors. Post registration mutation was also carried out in the revenue
records as per the procedure and was affected on 9 th September, 1988.
Reliance is placed on Vedakannu Nadar & Ors. Vs. Nunguneri Taluk
Singikulam AIR 1938 Madras 982 and Shri Mahadeo Jew & Anr. Vs.
Balkrishna Vyas & Anr. AIR 1952 Calcutta 763. Referring to Section 114 of
the Evidence Act it is stated that the presumption in law is that every official C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 5 of 18 act has been validly performed and as per Section 35(2) of the Registration
Act the registering officer in order to satisfy himself as to the identity of the
person appearing before him is empowered to examine any one present in his
office. While registering a document provisions of Sections 34 and 35 of the
Registration Act are complied with and all vendors who thus appeared
before the registering officer were identified and thereafter the sale deeds
were registered. There is no challenge to the NOC granted under the Delhi
Land (Restriction on Transfer) Act, 1972 and thus the sale deeds in question
cannot be subject matter of challenge as the NOC and endorsement of the
Sub-Registrar form composite part of these sale deeds. In the recital of the
sale deeds actual, physical, vacant possession of the suit properties having
been delivered by the vendors to the vendee on the spot has been mentioned.
There being no reference to a Civil Court after framing a specific question by
the revenue Court in terms of Section 186 of the Act, the suits were not
maintainable. The suit were barred under Section 83 of the Delhi Land
Revenue Act as the Civil Court has no jurisdiction in relation to disputes
relating to records or preparation or signing or attestation of any document
with reference to annual register. Reference is also placed on Phoolwati Vs.
Ram Dei CS(OS) 1462 of 2006; Gaon Sabha of Lado Sarai Vs. Jage Ram 173 1 ILR 984; Utkal Contractors & Joinery Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. Vs. State of
Orissa (1987) 3 SCC 279; Jagarnath Shukla Vs. Sita Ram Pandey & Ors.
1969 ALJ 768; Gorak Nath Dubey Vs. Hari Narain Singh & Ors. 1973 (2)
SCC 535; Kacheru Vs. Risal Singh 1970 (2) ILR 29; Hatti Vs. Sunder Singh AIR 1971 SC 2320; Shri Ram & Anr. Vs. Ist Addl . Distt. Judge & Ors. 2001
(3) SCC 24 and Mansa Ram Vs. Tilak & Anr. RFA (OS) 12/2012. 6. Learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand reiterates the
contentions raised in the suits. Relying on Krishan Gupta Vs. Rajinder Nath
and Co. HUF 2013 (198) DLT 85; Rohit Shekhar Vs. Narayan Dutt Tiwari 2010 (2) Civil Court Cases 452 (Delhi (DB); T.H. Annes Ahamed Vs. Union
Bank of India 2014 (5) RCR (civil) 47 and M.P. Krishnamurthi Vs. Chandan
Ramamurthi 2008 (151) DLT 463 it is contended that an application under Order VII Rule 11 CPC has to be decided on the basis of averments in the
plaint and the defence cannot be looked into. Relying on Daya Singh and
Ors. Gurdev Singh (2010) 2 SCC 194 it is stated that mere adverse entries in
the revenue records do not give rise to the cause of action and the right to sue
accrues when there is a clear and unequivocal threat to infringe a right. In
relation to the objection that the suit was barred by Section 34 of the Specific
Relief Act, relying upon Mohinder Kumar Vs. Bhim Sain & Ors. 82 (1999)
DLT 800 it is contended that so long as Will subsists and is not declared null
and void, no declaration could be sought by the plaintiff seeking possession
in respect of the suit property. Rebutting contention of learned counsel for
the Petitioner that the suits were barred under the provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Act, it is stated that only those matters that are referred in
Schedule 1 of the Act are barred. Since the respondents/plaintiffs seek
declaration of the sale deeds as null and void, being manipulated and forged
documents, the scope of enquiry being beyond the jurisdiction of revenue
Court only Civil suits were maintainable. Referring to Suraj Bhan Vs.
Financial Commissioner (2007) 6 SCC 186 it is stated that the validity and
genuineness of the Sale Deeds can only be decided by a competent Civil
Court. Reference is also made to Vinod Kumar Sharma Vs. Smt. Seema Sethi C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 7 of 18 CS(OS) 185/2008 decided on 14th January, 2009 and Mrs. Kamla Devi Vs.
Mrs. Kusum & Anr. CRP No. 82/2008 decided on 14th July, 2008. 7. Heard learned counsel for the parties. It is trite law that while dealing
with applications under Order VII Rule 11 CPC the averments in the plaint
have to be seen by way of demurer and the defence cannot be looked into.
Plaintiffs claim to be in possession of the suit properties. In the plaints the
plaintiffs have sought declaration of the sale deeds dated 2nd November,
1987 as null and void, permanent injunction against the
petitioners/defendants from transferring, alienating or creating third party
interest in the suit properties on the plea that executants of the sale deeds
Hemraj and Rattan Lal had expired when the sale deeds were executed.
Hence the same are forged and fabricated. 8. The debate between the parties requires this Court to note the relevant
statutory provisions, which concededly would be Section 185 and Section
186 of the Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954, which reads as under: Explanation:- A plea regarding the title to the land which is
 clearly untenable and intended solely to oust the jurisdiction of
 the revenue court shall not be deemed to raise a question
 regarding the title to the land within the meaning of this
 section. (2) The civil court, after reframing the issue, if necessary, shall
 decide such issue only and return the record together with its
 finding thereon to the revenue court which submitted it. (3) The revenue court shall then proceed to decide the suit or,
 accepting the finding of the civil court on the issue referred to
 it. (4) An appeal from a decree of a revenue court in a suit or
 proceeding in which an issue regarding title has been decided
 by a civil court under sub-section (2) shall lie to the civil court
 which having regard to the valuation of the suit has jurisdiction
 to hear appeal from the Court to which the issue of title has
 been referred." 9. From a perusal of sub- Section 1 of Section 185 of the Delhi Land
Reforms Act, 1954 it is clear that it bars the jurisdiction of a Court, other
than a Court mentioned in Column 7 of Schedule 1 of the Act to take C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 9 of 18 cognizance of such suits which are mentioned in Column 3 thereof. A
perusal of sub- Section 1 of Section 186 of the Act, which starts with a non
obstante clause „notwithstanding anything contained in Section 185‟ would
reveal that it acts as an exception to the bar created by sub- Section 1 of Section 185 of the Act. Highlighting that if a question arises which impinges
upon the title of any party to a land which is the subject matter of a suit
envisaged by Schedule 1 of the Act, the Revenue Court cannot adjudicate the
same and is obliged to refer the matter to a Civil Court of Competent
Jurisdiction. Thus, the issue has to be decided in two steps. In step one it
needs to be seen whether the suit before the Civil Court is of a kind which is
cognizable by a Revenue Court and for which Column 3 of Schedule I has to
be looked into. Column 3 of the Schedule is captioned : „Description of
suit/application and other proceedings‟. Thus, if the description of the suit
before the learned Civil Court is not of the kind as mentioned under Column
3 of Schedule I, the suit is not barred because of sub- Section 1 of Section
185 of the Act. If as a result of the inquiry in step one it is found that the suit
falls under any of the entries under Column 3 of Schedule I the next step has
to be to see whether the suit relates to a title. If the suit relates to a title, it
would be for the Civil Court alone to decide the issue for the reason even if
the issue of title arises before a Revenue Court, the Revenue Court would be
obliged to refer the dispute to a Civil Court. In the instant case learned
counsel for the petitioner could show no entry under Column 3 of Schedule I
which makes cognizable before any Revenue Court a suit laying a challenge
to a sale deed concerning agricultural land and in particular when the plea is
one of fraud. 10. The issue whether such a suit will fall within the ambit of Section 185 DRC Act came up for consideration before this Court in Vinod Kumar
Sharma Vs. Smt. Seema Sethi & Ors. 2009 (2) AD Delhi 782 wherein this
Court held that the Revenue Court under the Delhi Land Reform Act has not
been empowered to grant the relief of declaration of a sale deed as null and
void with respect to agriculture land also or to grant the relief of injunction. 11. The decision in Kamla Prasad & Ors. Vs. Kishna Kant Pathak & Ors. (2007) 4 SCC 213 relied upon by learned counsel for M/s. Visa Agro has no
application to the facts of the present case as the Apex Court was not dealing
with a case wherein it was alleged that the sale deed was a forged and
fabricated document. The Apex Court clearly distinguished the case before
it from that in Shri Ram & Anr. Vs. 1st Addl. Distt. Judge & Ors. (2001) 3
SCC 24 and held: 12. In Gaon Sabha of Lado Sarai (supra) relied upon by learned counsel
for the Petitioner this Court was dealing with the jurisdiction of the Civil
Court to try a suit wherein the plaintiff‟s substantive claim was with regard
to bhoomadari rights in land under the Delhi Land Reforms Act . 13. As noted above in the present case the respondents seek declaration of
the sale deeds as null and void for the reason that the executants were dead
on the date when the sale deeds have been purportedly executed. 14. Learned counsel for the petitioner M/s. Visa Agro‟s contention that
even if the Civil Court has jurisdiction to entertain the same, the same would
be maintainable only on a reference under Section 186 of the Act, is also
misconceived. As discussed above, under Section 185 of the Act the
revenue Court is not competent to adjudicate the validity of a sale deed
which is challenged on the ground of fraud and thus there is no application
of Section 186 of the Act to the facts of the present case. A reading of Section 186 of the Act also indicates that the question of title cannot be gone
into by the Revenue Court and only a Civil Court is competent to decide the
same. 15. The contention of learned counsel for Visa Agro that the sale deeds
are one contract and indivisible in character and thus part relief cannot be
granted inasmuch as all the executants have not challenged the said sale
deeds to be null and void also deserves to be rejected. In Kedar Prasad
Vs. Ganga Prasad AIR 1980 Allahabad 85 the High Court while dealing
with a case where Hira Lal had only 1/5th share in the shop while remaining
4/5th shares belonged to the defendants No.2 to 11 who were members of the
joint Hindu family and no separation had taken place, held that the sale deed C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 12 of 18 executed by defendant No.12 was void and illegal to the extent of 1/5 th share
of Hira Lal and was thus liable to be cancelled to the said extent. 16. The decisions in Vedakannu Nadar (supra) and Mahadeo Jew (Supra)
relied upon by the learned counsel for the Petitioner have no application to
the facts of the present case. In Vedakannu Nadar (supra) the Madras High
Court was dealing with a trust created for charitable endowment and it was
held that since there was one contract for a single consideration and each part
of the contract was an inducement to every other part thus there was no
warrant for dissecting the bargain into two distinct parts. Thus the reason
why the contract was not severed was that the parts of the contract were
reciprocal to each other. In Mahadeo Jew (supra) again the Court was
dealing with a trust and thus it was held that the terms of settlement are not
separable and if they are illegal the whole settlement must be set aside. The
two decisions do not lay down a universally applicable rule that in no case,
the contract cannot be severed. Whether a contract can be severed would
depend on the terms of the contract. 17. Learned counsel for Visa Agro has strenuously argued that since both
the sale deeds were registered and there being presumption under Section
114 of the Evidence Act that every official Act has been validly performed,
the sale deeds cannot be now challenged. Presumption under Section 114 Evidence Act is a rebuttable presumption and parties can lead evidence to
rebut the same. Present is the stage in the suits where the impugned orders
have been rendered on the applications under Order VII Rule 11 CPC and
thus the stage of leading evidence, appreciating the same and raising
presumption has not arrived as yet. Thus there is no merit in this contention
as well. 18. The contention of learned counsel for M/s. Visa Agro that since there
is no challenge to the NOC granted under the Delhi Land (Restriction on
Transfer) Act, 1972 and endorsement from the Sub-Registrar forms
composite part of these sale deeds is not a ground on which the plaint can be
rejected. The respondents have sought the cancellation of sale deeds as null
and void and what other consequences would follow from the same is not the
scope of consideration at this stage. 19. Learned counsel for M/s. Visa Agro contends that since the sale deeds
itself recite that the vendees have been delivered the physical vacant
possession of the suit properties in view of the consequential relief of
possession having not been claimed, the suits were liable to be dismissed
under Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act. As noted above while deciding
an application under Order VII Rule 11 CPC the averments in the plaint have
to be considered by way of demurer and the respondents/plaintiffs have
urged in the plaint that they continue to be in possession of the suit
properties and the sale deeds being all forged and fabricated, the recital
therein do not amount to admission of the respondents. Hence the plaints are
not liable to be rejected on this count as well. 20. Learned counsel for M/s. Visa Agro further contends that the suits are
barred under Section 83 of the Delhi Land Revenue Act which provides that
the Civil Court has no jurisdiction in relation to disputes pertaining to the
records or preparation or signing or attestation of any document with
reference to annual register. As noted above in the suits the
plaintiffs/respondents have sought cancellation of the sale deeds as null and
void and a declaration thereof, what procedure has to be followed thereafter
is not the scope of consideration at this stage and the suits cannot be C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 14 of 18 dismissed for being barred by Section 85 of the Delhi Land Revenue Act at
this stage. 21. In Om Prakash vs. Govt. (NCT of Delhi ), 2012 SCC OnLine Del 4738
the Division Bench of this Court held: 22. Learned counsel for Visa Agro has also raised an issue with regard to Section 74(2) of the Indian Evidence Act which provides that public record
kept are public documents and thus deemed to be in the knowledge. On the
strength of this argument it is stated that the suits are barred by limitation
and hence the same be dismissed. A perusal of the plaints would reveal that
the plaintiffs/respondents have asserted that the possession of suit property
always remained with the plaintiffs or their predecessor in interest and they
were not in the knowledge of sale deeds dated 2nd November, 1987 or the
mutation order dated 9th September, 1988 as no notice was served on the
plaintiffs/respondents or their predecessor in interest. The plaintiffs came to
know only in January, 2010 about the null and void transfer documents and
thus after obtaining the certified copies of the sale deeds and the mutation
orders filed the suits within the period of limitation. The issue thus raised is
a mixed question of fact and law and on the basis of averments in the plaint
it cannot be held that the suits are barred by limitation. 23. In Mansa Ram Vs. Tilak & Anr (supra) the Division Bench of this
Court while dealing with an application under Order VII Rule 11 CPC seeking rejection of the plaint on the ground that the suit filed by the
appellant therein was barred under the provision of Delhi Land Reforms Act,
1952 and the other revenue law held that a suit seeking cancellation of
general power of attorney having been obtained by fraud and
misrepresentation and in consequence to that the sale deed having been
registered by playing a fraud was maintainable and the revenue Courts had
no jurisdiction to decide the issue. It was categorically laid down that the
issue of fraud and cancellation of document can only be decided by the Civil C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 16 of 18 Court. It was noted that no declaration of bhoomidari rights was sought
which would be a subject matter under Section 185 Delhi Land Reforms Act. 24. Supreme Court in Horil Vs. Keshav (2012) 5 SCC 525 held that
though the provisions of CPC have been made applicable to the proceedings
under the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act but that would
not make the authorities specified under Schedule II as "Court" under the
Code and those authorities shall continue to be Courts of limited and
restricted jurisdiction. The revenue Courts are neither equipped nor
competent to affectively adjudicate upon allegations of fraud that have
overtones of criminality and the Courts really skilled and experienced to try
such issues are the Courts constituted under the CPC . It is well-settled that
under Section 9 of the CPC, the Civil Court has inherent jurisdiction to try
all types of civil disputes unless its jurisdiction is barred expressly or by
necessary implication, by any statutory provision and conferred on any other
Tribunal or authority. It was further held that nothing in Order XXIII Rule
3A CPC bars the institution of a suit before the Civil Court even in regard to
decrees or orders passed in suits and/or proceedings under different Statutes
before a Court, Tribunal or authority of limited and restricted jurisdiction. 25. In view of the authoritative pronouncement of Supreme Court in Horil
Vs. Keshav followed by the Division Bench of this Court in Mansa Ram the
plea of the petitioner that the suits are barred under the provision of Section
185 Delhi Land Reforms Act and are thus liable to be rejected cannot be
sustained and no illegality can be imputed to the impugned orders not
rejecting the plaints. 26. Consequently, I find no infirmity in the impugned orders dismissing
the applications of M/s. Visa Agro under Order VII Rule 11 CPC . Petitions
are accordingly dismissed. (MUKTA GUPTA)
 JUDGE
JULY 15, 2015
'ga' C.R.P. Nos. 157/2013 & 158/2013 Page 18 of 18