Disney+ Hotstar President and Head of Disney+ Hotstar spoke at the Asia Video Industry Association’s Future of Video India event . This article is based on remarks he made from his session during the event.

Piracy has been an issue for Hotstar, its president and head Sunil Rayan said in a session at the Asia Video Industry Association’s Future of Video India event on April 29. So much so, people have been arrested by police following complaints by the Disney-owned streaming service to the police.

Streaming services overall are still nascent in India, Rayan said in the interaction, and added that regulation of streaming platforms shouldn’t hamper their growth.

“Having been in the throes of OTT, at least in the last year, I and I think a lot of my colleagues genuinely believe we are in the early days, very early days of OTT, even though it’s had tremendous growth in the last five years or so,” Rayan said. “If you think about growth stages, you have initially the early adopters, the people who have a little bit of a global exposure, they’re looking for unique types of content. We are in that phase right now. And if fast forward that, OK, what’s the next stage? We believe the next stage would be building a product for India, like building for India, which is a product that works in India, the pricing that works in India and the content that works in India.”

Hotstar “was built to be leaner on the wire. It was built to scale. I mean, if you look at the technology that was also built behind us, we basically stripped it down right to the lowest level and say, how do we build it to get the experience with people being in very low speed mobile services,” Rayan said.

When asked about the importance of sports, Rayan said, “It is critical, even though we’ve expanded into other areas. And specifically to your [the interviewer’s] question on IPL, I mean, I feel it is a great asset for us,” Rayan said.

“I think it’s critical that regulation supports the growth and in fact, enhances the growth. So we you know, we completely respect that the that the regulators need to protect both the industry and the consumers. But at the same time, I hope we don’t lose focus on growth and value creation in the industry,” Rayan said.

“We’ve got relationships now set up with the with all the platforms of the world, whether it’s YouTube, Twitch, Discord, etc, to make sure that we can we have a direct line to them saying, hey, this is something that’s copyrighted that people are broadcasting. We actually have teams focused on the large platforms and we really collaborate with each of those vendors,” Rayan said. “We’ve given police complaints and police have gone and arrested those people.”

Also read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event