SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: In the light of NEET exams review of education policies in India
DATE: 2024-06-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1d9lbki/in_the_light_of_neet_exams_review_of_education/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am not going to question any authority, and this is not even a political stand, but I am going to just write down a few facts related to education here. I just urge every human being to read these out loud, or even better, get a 10-year-old to read them, even they can tell there is something seriously wrong with how we are educated, and even their solution would be better than anything prevailing. These facts are so messed up and tragic that they are laughable. It's like when someone witnesses tragedy, they are sad, and if it kept on going to the point that it evolves towards stupid, crazy, and then comedy, one cannot help but laugh like stupid.

1. NTA-organized NEET-2024, results have been announced, and people who are already up to date with the news know the ridiculous results that have come. But let me state a fact: "A general category student who has scored 720/720 cannot get into top AIIMS with this result." So the simple question is: how much marks is expected for such a candidate to score to get a seat into top AIIMS?
2. NTA's explanation for 67 students scoring full marks and many scoring the impossible 718 and 719 is that the syllabus was mostly based on NCERT and the paper was very easy to discourage coaching mafias; so, their solution to the problem of coaching was to allow students to loose the trust in the education system and policies altogether.
3. For admission in PhD course in DU in 2017, the cut-off for SC/ST was 0 marks, which means that the candidate has to only show up and they are in. JEE mains cut-off for 2024 for the general category is 93.23, while for ST it is 46.69. How do these things even make any sense?
4. The demographics of OBC passing 12th standard is approximately 41-50% and the reservation of OBC for higher education is roughly 27%, which means that even the policies that are in place to uplift people from demographics of lower caste doesn't even help them.
5. When I was in 5th or 6th grade, I learned about reservations for the first time from our teacher of social studies. Our friends had a discussion on reservations, and all of us agreed that it was a stupid idea and that it solves nothing. At that time we concluded that giving the poor and unaware people free or partially sponsored education, giving them more support and help towards preparation of entrance exams as compared to privileged ones, and allowing them to compete with the same opportunity is a much more sustainable idea. Now, after 15 years I still believe that it was a way better idea than current reservation. Give them a reservation and privilege during their preparations and not in the admissions.
6. Ever since NTA started conducting NEET and JEE exams, there have been some problems or another. I remember earlier that these exams had a track record of everything going smoothly.
7. CBSE deleted a lot of topics in different subjects and all the deleted portions are the most important ones and are essential for entrance exams, so the students are forced to rely on coaching and work even harder to cover these topics. Let me give an example, in physics subject, CBSE deleted topics like: Laws of Motion, Gravitation, System of Particles and rotational motions, Thermodynamics, etc. which are not only very essential for a student who will most likely have to do engineering or pure science and will be forced to study in a coaching to cover these topics; and I don't have to tell you guys that these topics are so essential for any student that these topics should be a piece of common knowledge for any student. 
8. I can keep going as there are infinitely many **obvious** problems in India's education and this will severely affect the country. Mark my words, if this continues soon, most of the youngsters from India will be a fraud caller, like the ones who call imitating Olx buyers, delivery boys, CBI, etc. to steal or ransom people for money.