Kunal Kamra, a stand-up comedian and political satirist, filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court on February 4, challenging the constitutionality of the Sahyog Portal. The portal was created in 2024 by the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C), under the Ministry of Home Affairs, to automate the processing of content takedown and blocking orders for online content.

Kamra’s petition particularly challenges the following provisions of the Information Technology Act (IT Act), 2000:

“Rule 3(1)(d) of the IT Rules and the Sahyog Portal represent a parallel blocking regime to that under Section 69A of the IT Act and the Blocking Rules. Through this parallel regime, summary takedowns/ blocking of any information on the internet can be effected, without observing basic principles of natural justice,” states the writ petition accessed by MediaNama.

Note: A Division Bench of the Bombay High Court will hear Kunal Kamra’s petition on March 16, 2026.

Kunal Kamra shared the following statement with MediaNama via text message:

“By this petition, I challenge amendment to the IT Rules and the Sahyog Portal that give thousands of officers of the State and Central Government the power to unilaterally determine whether content on the internet is lawful, and direct that it be taken down.  The user/creator is not given notice of this, is not heard, and has no remedy against the decision. The government will have an absolute right to decide what can stay on the internet.

This amendment seems to have slipped under the radar, but it has a much wider effect than the Fact Check Unit that was held to be unconstitutional . It is a frontal assault on our freedom of speech and expression, and our right to information – that is a vital part of the freedom of expression” – Kunal Kamra

Earlier, in 2023, Kamra had also challenged amendments to the IT Rules that sought to introduce a Fact Check Unit by the central government to curb fake news. The Bombay High Court struck down these amendments in September 2024.

In October 2025, the central government amended the IT Rules through a gazette notification, replacing earlier provisions that broadly defined notifications and intermediary compliance. The amendment came into effect on November 15, 2025.

Takedown orders must specify:

Additionally, an officer not below the rank of Secretary of the appropriate government must conduct a monthly review to ensure that content takedowns are “necessary, proportionate, and consistent with law.”

“MeitY’s actions in this regard are a colourable exercise of power as MeitY has attempted to delegate power to central and state agencies and local police officers that MeitY itself does not have under the IT Act” – Kamra’s Petition.

The petition alleges that the automated content takedown mechanism deployed through the Sahyog Portal, operated by various government officials without prior notice to content creators, violates the Supreme Court’s (SC) “necessary safeguards that ensure the constitutionality.”

“Through the Sahyog Portal, the Respondents [central and state govt officials] are able to effect unilateral blocking/takedown of content on the internet without complying with the mandatory legal requirements, including the issuance of notice to the originator of the content, affording a hearing to the affected party and passing a reasoned speaking order in respect of such takedowns.” – Writ Petition.

In his petition, Kunal Kamra relies on the Supreme Court’s 2015 ruling in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India to argue how online content can lawfully be blocked or taken down. He refers to the Supreme Court judgment striking down Section 66A of the IT Act, holding that it violated the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. However, it upheld the constitutional validity of Section 69A, describing it as a ”narrowly drawn provision with several safeguards”.

According to the SC’s judgment:

In its judgement, the SC held that Section 79 is an exemption provision and clarified that the government can block or take down content only through the procedure laid down under Section 69A, read with the Blocking Rules (2009).

The judgment states that authorities can pass blocking orders only in two situations:

“….there are only two ways in which a blocking order can be passed-one by the Designated Officer after complying with the 2009 Rules and the other by the Designated Officer when he has to follow an order passed by a competent court .”  – SC in Shreya Singhal Judgement.

In April 2025, X (formerly Twitter) filed a case in the Karnataka High Court against the Sahyog Portal, seeking similar relief regarding Section 79(3)(b) of the IT Act. However, the court dismissed X’s petition in September 2025. X appealed this judgment in December 2025, and the case remains pending. According to Kamra’s petition, he learned about the Sahyog Portal through media reports covering X’s case.

Delhi HC, in a recent February 2026 order, said it can’t grant safe harbour exemptions to X, if it refuses to onboard the Sahyog portal. “The existing safe harbour provisions in the opinion of this court do not give you protection to that extent that you can refuse and say that in the case of crimes we cannot come on board”, said the Delhi HC.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event