Report of violation of financial documents of Ramin Mirzadegan Immigration Company in the name of (IMIRZADEGAN) membership ID R705721 Hello, I wish you a good day My name is Ehsan Mehdizadeh. On June 16, 2021, I and Mirzadegan Immigration Company under the management of Ramin Mirzadegan to membershi 705721 RCIC and email address [protected]@mirzadeganimmigration.Com Mobail:[protected] violations that apply: I am on the National Do Not Call Registry The call was a recorded message or "robocall" No caller ID information was displayed when the telemarketer called me The company called me even though I specifically asked them not to The call was disconnected before I spoke to anyone I was called before 8 a.m. or after 9 p.m. I was billed for an item I did not agree to pay foto my e-mail. I also have Ehsan Mehdizadeh: 1. His attorney's fee is C $ 42, 000, which is blank in the HST section. And businesses have a plan to pay for Canadian governmeSymposium Restaurant have a monthly income of C $ 100, 000 in Coburg, Ontario, a restaurant that has been open for six months? I asked Ramin for a bank and official bill, but he sent me the bill manually. nt spending. Are these numbers real and acceptable? 2. Does the Coburg 3. The rent for a shop in Coburg, Ontario is C $ 10, 000 per month. In addition to HST, is this amount correct? 4- His next violation I signed a contract with him for $ 150, 000 and he offered me the Coburg Symposium restaurant for $ 650, 000 and I told him to become an official expert. Can this price of $ 650, 000 be available for a few tables and chairs? agreed? But they did not accept and said that you should trust me as your lawyer. the income of the restaurant, and the attachment of this letter is 5- They themselves have sent me an invoice manually which is all the attached documents. Important Note: He did not include the tax amount in the contract, and the amount of $ 42, 000 for the attorney's fee seems unreasonable, and the non-inclusion of Mr. Phil Mooney's second lawyer's signature and the unofficial bill regarding the restaurant's income compel me to do all this. Has I stopped my immigration case and pursued it? Do I, who intend to immigrate to Canada as an immigrant and start living from the beginning, have these official figures or not? His tax should be carefully examined from the beginning of the issuance of the business license, and that my amount with all the expenses I made for this contract is the amount of $ 20, 000 that they should deposit in my account ? the losses that I have incurred. Important Note: Mr. Ramin Mirzadegan, Mr. Terry and Mr. Bill Ergov, the owner of the symposium restaurants, as well as Mr. Phil Mooney, as well as a bank chairman in Toronto who was to borrow $ 500, 000 on my case. The team of fraud and theft have set up. I sent several emails and letters to Mr. Argo and Mr. Phil Mooney to find out what the matter is, but none of them answered my calls and emails. It is very clear to me that all these people with They have set up a fraud team for immigrants to Canada and they are extorting money from their customers. The problem between me and Ramin arose when I asked Ramin for official documents, for example: a bill. Coburg Symposium restaurant money with the signature of the bank in which the restaurant's account is, or the price of $ 650, 000 to buy the restaurant and a few tables, gas and cooking utensils, while Ramin Mirzadegan initially told me this amount to buy the shop And buy royalties and all restaurant equipment. Please consider the harshest punishment for the above people who play with the future and lives of immigrants and swindle and extort money from them. At the moment, Ramin Mirzadegan is saying that the $ 10, 000 I deposited so far has been a contract, and Ramin cites this. I did, file, folder and scan regularly for Ramin. He just turned on the computer and opened his email and received my documents in a file. Do I have to pay Ramin $ 10, 000 in damages for this? On my behalf, this contract has not been terminated and canceled. I have not signed a contract, I have not paid to want to terminate it. I decided to emigrate. In addition to the $ 10, 000 I owed to Ramin Mirzadegan, I also owed $ 10, 000 for the same contract, at Ramin's request, such as an official bachelor of real estate, translating about 500 pages of a translator's signature, matching qualifications for WES Canada, The cost of scanning, filing, folding and other costs ??? being At present, I owe $ 20, 000 to my creditor Ramin. In addition, I have to calculate all the damages for the delay of the money and the profit of the losses and damages that he has caused to me and my family, up to one dollar, with such swindlers who are my Iranian compatriots. My request to the Ontario Canada Immigration Advisers is to receive $ 20, 000 and its loss profit to date, and the most severe punishment for revoking the immigration license of Ramin Mirzadegan and Phil Mooney, to be dealt with decisively. I even request the revocation of Ramin citizenship. They should not live in a country like Canada, which is very legal. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)