We missed this earlier: The Government of India released the draft Legal Metrology Rules, 2025, mandating uniformity and synchronization in timekeeping across sectors, on January 15, 2025. In a circular, the Draft Legal Metrology (Indian Standard Time) Rules, 2025 , was notified by the Consumer Affairs Department, with stakeholders getting until February 14, 2025, to submit their comments.

The rules will come into effect 180 days after the official Gazette notification.

The rules propose the Indian Standard Time (IST) as the official and sole time reference to be displayed at all Government offices and public institutions unless stated otherwise. They also propose IST to be the mandatory time reference across sectors, including commerce, transport, financial operations, etc.

The proposed rules emphasise “reliability, availability, robustness” and implementing cybersecurity measures against malicious attacks, the circular said. It envisions the use of terrestrial-based time distribution systems as well as NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) time reference signals in instances of cyber disruptions.

The framework suggests that keeping IST as the sole reference will ensure “synchronization through reliable sources like Network Time Protocol (NTP) or Precision Time Protocol (PTP) or any other source.”

Both the aforementioned are standards used to synchronize clocks by linking them to computer networks. While NTP is used for general timekeeping, PTP is usually applied in high-precision synchronization scenarios.

The timescales will have to be periodically audited to ensure cross-sectoral compliance, the draft rules stated. It, however, allowed for the use of alternative time scales (like GMT) for specific purposes like astronomy, navigation, etc.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event