% 10.07.2025

 CRL.M.A. 19631/2025 (seeking exemption from filing certified copies of
 documents) 1. Exemption is granted, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The Applicant shall file legible and clearer copies of exempted
 documents, compliant with practice rules, before the next date of hearing. 3. Accordingly, the application stands disposed of.
 BAIL APPLN. 2505/2025 & CRL.M.A. 19630/2025 (seeking interim
 protection) 4. A zero FIR bearing no. 02/2025 dated 23rd June, 2025 was registered
 against the Applicant at Sonipat, Haryana, which has now been converted
 into the subject FIR no. 302/2025 dated 1st July, 2025, registered under Section 376 , 354C , 328 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, 18601, at P.S.
 Nabi Karim, Delhi. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/07/2025 at 22:08:44 5. The said FIR has been registered on a complaint made by victim "S"
 alleging that the Applicant established forcible physical relations with her,
 by administering a stupefying substance, thereby amounting to rape. She
 alleges that the Applicant has recorded an obscene video of hers. She further
 contends that on the basis of the said video, the Applicant has been
 blackmailing and harassing her for over 4 years, threatening to circulate the
 same on social media. In addition to the above, the victim alleges that the
 Applicant also sent messages pertaining to their purported relationship to her
 husband, thereby spoiling her marital life. 6. Counsel for Applicant argues that the Applicant has been falsely
 implicated. In fact, he submits that the Prosecutrix has been indulging in
 extortion. He submits that the Applicant is a Commando with the National
 Security Guard, who came in contact with the Prosecutrix in March, 2020
 through the social media platform 'Tik Tok'. He states that both the
 Prosecutrix as well as the Applicant were aware of each other's marital
 status and that they were already married to other people, which are
 subsisting. It is submitted, that nonetheless, after an initial friendship, both
 the prosecutrix and the Applicant initiated a consensual physical relationship
 with each other. 7. Counsel further argues that since the Applicant wanted to continue
 and mend his relationship with his wife, he tried to end the relationship
 between him and the Prosecutrix on multiple occasions, but it was the
 Prosecutrix who started threatening and intimidating him, stating that she
 would share his explicit photos with his family and file a false rape case to
 defame him. To this effect, the Applicant also filed a complaint against the
 Prosecutrix, inter-alia for extortion, criminal intimidation, harassment,

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/07/2025 at 22:08:44
 cyber-bullying, defamation and filing false charges. Therefore, in light of the
 above, counsel for the Applicant seeks interim protection from arrest in the
 present FIR and states that he willing to join investigation and cooperate
 with the same. 8. On the other hand, counsel for Prosecutrix opposes the present
 application and submits that the case not only involves serious allegations of
 sexual abuse and extortion, but that the Applicant has, in fact, been
 threatening and blackmailing the Prosecutrix. 9. The Court has considered the submissions of the parties. There is no
 doubt that the present case involves serious allegations of rape under
 intoxication, taking obscene videos, intimidation and extortion against the
 Applicant. However, the Applicant claims that all these allegations are false
 and in fact, he is the one who is being harassed by the Prosecutrix. The
 investigation in the present case is at a nascent stage as the subject FIR was
 registered recently on 1st July, 2025. 10. That being said, on a prima facie evaluation of the documents placed
 on record, it appears that are elements of the present case being one of an
 extra-marital affair gone awry. As per the Prosecutrix's own contentions, the
 Applicant has been allegedly threatening and blackmailing her for 4 years,
 however, she did not make any complaint against him before. In fact, it is
 noted that the FIR was filed on 1st July, 2025, whereas the Applicant had
 submitted his compliant against the Prosecutrix on 13 th April, 2025 - more
 than 2 months before the filing of the FIR. 11. Therefore, in light of the above and since the Applicant is ready and
 willing to join investigation, it is directed that he shall appear before the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/07/2025 at 22:08:44
 concerned Investigating Officer2 tomorrow - i.e., 11th July, 2025 at 04:00
 PM and shall extend his full cooperation to the investigation. Furthermore,
 in order to facilitate a thorough investigation in the present case, it is
 directed that both the Prosecutrix and the Applicant shall submit their
 mobile phones to the concerned IO, which shall be sent for forensic analysis. 12. Subject to the above, till the next date of hearing, no coercive action
 be taken against the Applicant. However, it is clarified that the Applicant
 shall not contact the Prosecutrix or any of her family members in any
 manner whatsoever. 13. Issue notice. Mr. Tarang Srivastava, APP for State, accepts notice.
 Status report be filed before the next date of hearing. 14. Renotify on 1st September, 2025. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 JULY 10, 2025
 as 2 "IO" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 10/07/2025 at 22:08:44