Date : 21-12-2020

 Heard Mr. A.M. Bora, learned Sr. Counsel appearing for the petitioner. Also heard Mr.
N.K. Kalita, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor, Assam appearing for the State respondent. This second petition under Section 438 Cr.P.C., is filed for granting the privilege of pre-
arrest bail to the petitioner, namely Kuldip Kumar apprehending arrest in connection with
Barpeta P.S. Case No. 1907/2018 registered u/s 120B / 197 / 198 / 420 / 406 of the IPC
 Page No.# 2/3

and added Sections 468 / 471 of the IPC. Be it mentioned here that the earlier anticipatory bail application of the petitioner was
rejected by this Court vide order, dated 13.05.2019, passed in AB No. 1200/2019. The scanned copies of the case diary and the LCR, as called for, are placed before the
Court. Mr. A.M. Bora, learned Sr. Counsel appearing for the petitioner, submits that the
petitioner, who is a resident of Haryana State and by profession a businessman, has been
falsely implicated in the case and he is wrongly shown absconder in the charge-sheet. Mr.
Bora further submits that one Ismail Hussain had credited Rs.1,00,000/- on 26.07.2017 and
Rs.3,00,000/- on 28.07.2017 to his account by way of refund of the loan amount of
Rs.3,50,000/- with 18% interest received from him. In this regard, Mr. Bora has referred to
the promissory notes enclosed with the petition. Mr. Bora, learned Sr. Counsel, also submits
that the instant pre-arrest bail application is filed afresh in view of the liberty given to the
petitioner by an order, dated 07.08.2020, passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
SLP(Criminal) Diary No. 14789/2020, wherein it has been observed that the petitioner offered
to deposit a sum of Rs. 4 lacs, which amount is attributed to him. Mr. Bora emphatically
submits that the petitioner has offered to deposit the aforesaid amount for the sake of
protecting his reputation only and as all the co-accused persons are released on bail on
completion of investigation with the filing of the charge-sheet, his custodial interrogation may
not be necessary. Opposing the bail application, Mr. N.K. Kalita, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor, submits
that the case diary clearly reveals that the petitioner had received monetary gain by running
a racket of fake death claims in the insurance company in the state through his bank account
in HDFC Bank at Huda, Haryana from the arrested accused persons, more particularly Ismail
Hussain by way of share. Mr. Kalita vehemently submits that in the backdrop of facts and
circumstances revealed during investigation, the benefit of pre-arrest bail may not be given in
this case, where charge-sheet has already been laid. The case relates to opening of fake policies in various insurance companies and
managing to get death claim benefits of the insured fake/dead persons amounting to
 Page No.# 3/3

approximately Rs. 1.19 Crore. On scrutiny of the evidence so far collected by the investigating officer, reveals that the
petitioner and his associates, who are managing the affairs of Prateek Screening Services
based in Haryana are beneficiary of a number of fake insurance death claims and got share of
such death claim insurance settlements. For this purpose, the petitioner often introduced
himself as an employee of the claim Department of Aviva Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and
participated in a series of negotiations with fake claimants for wrongful gain. The instant case
being of very serious nature involving widespread insurance scam. Therefore, in the opinion
of the Court, if the benefit of pre-arrest bail is granted to the petitioner, the same will
certainly cause hindrance in a fair and expeditious trial of the case, provided charges are
framed at the judicial discretion of the learned trial Court. Further, this Court does not see any
reasonable apprehension on the part of the petitioner of being arrested in connection with
the aforesaid charge-sheeted case, where he is shown as absconder. Therefore, the anticipatory bail application stands rejected. This disposes off the anticipatory bail application. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant