Introduction 1. An award dated 27.09.2023 passed by the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises, Facilitation Council, Lucknow (hereinafter referred to as the Facilitation Council) is in the legal vortex between the petitioner and the private respondent no.1. Both contesting parties are at logger heads. The present petitioner is at pains to get the said award executed whereas the private respondent no.1 is leaving no stone unturned in challenging the said award on all possible grounds. 2. In the aforesaid context, the petitioner filed petition No.3886 of 2024 assailing the orders dated 17.01.2024 and order dated 20.06.2024 passed by the Commercial Court No.2, Lucknow in Arbitration Case No.3 of 2024 whereby the preliminary objections raised by the petitioner have been turned down. 3. After the preliminary objections were turned down, the petitioner moved an application for releasing the amount deposited by the respondent no.1 which has been allowed vide order dated 27.09.2024 passed by the Commercial Court No.2, Lucknow in the aforesaid Arbitration Case No.3 of 2024 and being aggrieved, the private respondent no.1 herein, filed an independent petition assailing the said order by means of the connected Petition No.5145 of 2024. 4. Since the issue involved in these two petitions are between the same parties and interconnected, hence both the petitions are being decided by this common judgment. 5. For convenience, M/s Genebio Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. hereinafter, will be referred to as the "petitioner" whereas Paradigm Enterprises (who is the petitioner of the connected petition) will be referred to as the "contesting respondent". Factual Matrix 6. Before proceedings further, it will be appropriate to notice the facts giving rise to the instant petition. The contesting respondent no.1 acting as an authorized distributor of the petitioner company had made a bid on GEM Portal and was successful in getting an order to supply 20 lakh Novel Coronavirus Sample Collection Kit. The aforesaid order was placed with the petitioner and it was supplied directly to the U.P. Medical Supplies Corporation. Though the contesting respondent received the entire payment of Rs.1,27,12,739/- but it was not paid to the petitioner. In this factual background, the petitioner made a reference under section 18 of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the Act of 2006) before the Facilitation Council who after hearing the parties made its award on 27.09.2023. 7. The contesting respondent assailed the said award dated 27.09.2023 by filing a writ petition before a Division Bench of this Court bearing Writ-C No.8511 of 2023 which came to be dismissed vide order dated 17.10.2023, leaving it open for the contesting respondent to assail the said award in terms of Section 34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1996) before the appropriate court. 8. The contesting respondent then on 16.01.2024 filed a petition before the Commercial Court Lucknow under section 34 of the Act of 1996 which was registered as Arbitration Case No.3 of 2024. 9. The said case was registered on 17.01.2024 and notices were issued to the petitioner (who was the respondent in the petition under section 34 of the Act of 1996). The petitioner after having put in appearance before the Commercial Lucknow filed his preliminary objections regarding maintainability of the petition under section 34 of the Act of 1996 primarily on two grounds: (i) that the contesting respondent had not deposited 75% of the awarded amount in terms of Section 19 of the Act of 2006, hence the petition under section 34 could not be entertained; (ii) that the petition under section 34 of the Act of 1996 itself was barred by limitation and in absence of any application seeking condonation of delay, the petition could not have been registered as a regular petition, hence the petition under section 34 was liable to be dismissed on the aforesaid grounds. 10. In the interregnum, the petitioner had pressed for the recovery of the awarded sum and in furtherance thereof, a recovery notice had been issued to the State Authorities for recovery. The contesting respondent assailed the said recovery by filing another writ petition before a Division Bench of this Court bearing Writ-C No.3594 of 2024. 11. After hearing the parties the said writ petition was disposed of on 19.04.2024, noticing the contention of the contesting respondent that he was ready to deposit 75% of the awarded sum before the Commercial Court, with observation that the sum would be deposited within a week and in case if the said amount was deposited, then the Commercial Court would admit the petition as per the settled law and the district administration may not pursue the recovery proceedings. Later, by means of order dated 01.05.2024 the period of one week as granted in the order dated 19.04.2024 was extended by further three days. 12. Armed with the order of the Division Bench dated 19.04.2024 the contesting respondent filed an application depositing 75% of the award passed under the Act of 2006 and also raised objections to the preliminary objections filed by the petitioner before the Commercial Court. Another application was filed seeking stay on the recovery proceedings. 13. The Commercial Court No.2, Lucknow after hearing the parties turned down the preliminary objections raised by the petitioner by means of order dated 20.06.2024 which is the subject matter of challenge in Petition No.3886 of 2024. 14. The petitioner had moved an application for release of the amount deposited by the contesting respondent which was allowed by the Commercial Court initially on 19.07.2024. This order dated 19.07.2024 was challenged by the contesting respondent by filing a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India bearing No.3611 of 2024. A Co-ordinate Bench of this Court by means of judgment and order dated 02.08.2024 allowed the petition setting aside the order dated 19.07.2024 with a direction to the Commercial Court to consider the application filed by the contesting respondent for stay of the award, alongwith the application for release of the amount and decide the same expeditiously, by a reasoned order. 15. In furtherance of the order dated 12.08.2024 passed in Writ Petition No.3611 of 2024 the matter was reconsidered by the Commercial Court who vide its order dated 27.09.2024 allowed the application for release of the deposited sum subject to the condition that the petitioner would furnish an indemnity indicating that in case if any adverse order was passed in the petition under section 34 of the Act of 1996, then the petitioner would refund the aforesaid amount released alongwith 6% interest per annum, to the Court. 16. In so far as the application for stay of the recovery proceedings is concerned, the said application was also disposed of, directing the contesting respondent to furnish a security to the extent of remaining 25% of the awarded sum within a period of three weeks and subject to the aforesaid the recovery proceedings were stayed. 17. The contesting respondent being aggrieved against the said order dated 27.09.2024 assailed the same in the connected Petition No.5145 of 2024 and prayed that the order directing the contesting respondent to furnish a security towards 25% of the awarded sum be set aside as well as another part of the same order be also set aside whereby the amount has been released in favour of the petitioner and the amount so released may be directed to be refunded. 18. The record further indicates that by means of order dated 05.11.2024 passed by a Co-ordinate Bench in Writ Petition No.5145 of 2024 it was directed that the said petition be connected alongwith Petition No.3886 of 2024. The record further indicates that both the petition were heard by a Co-ordinate Bench and judgment was reserved on 12.11.2024. However, the Co-ordinate Bench while dictating the judgment found that certain clarifications were required and the matter was directed to be listed for rehearing. The Co-ordinate Bench on 19.03.2025 had directed the petitioner to file a copy of an affidavit indicating specifically the date on which the said application had been filed. In the meantime, the matter was placed before this Court. This Court had called for a report from the Registrar (Listing) which was placed before the Court on 27.10.2025 indicating that the matter was now cognizable by this Court. It is in the aforesaid backdrop that this Court being seized of the aforesaid two petitions, heard the learned counsel for the parties, finally. Submissions on behalf of the parties 19. Shri Pritish Kumar, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Shri Amal Rastogi for the petitioner while assailing the order dated 20.06.2024 (which is under challenge in Petition No.3886 of 2024) has submitted that the Commercial Court No.2 while passing the order impugned has completely misdirected itself in rejecting the preliminary objections regarding limitation. It was urged that apparently the award passed by the Facilitation Council was dated 27.09.2023. The said award was challenged by filing a petition before the Commercial Court under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 on 16.01.2024 and the limitation for filing a petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 is provided in Section 34 (3) itself. 20. It was submitted that an award under Section 36 of the Act of 1996 could be challenged within a period of three months and only 30 days period thereafter was the period for which the delay could be condoned. Since the award was dated 27.09.2023 and the same was received by the contesting respondent on 06.10.2023, hence the Petition under Section 34 ought to have been filed within three months i.e. latest by 06.01.2024. Admittedly, the Petition was filed on 16.01.2024, however, there was no application filed by the contesting respondent seeking condonation of delay. 21. In absence of any application seeking condonation of delay, it was not open for the Commercial Court to have treated the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, within time. Moreover, in absence of any application seeking condonation of delay, the Court was not vested with jurisdiction to ignore or condone the delay. Filing an application seeking condonation of delay is mandatory and in absence of the application the Petition under Section 34 itself was defective. In the aforesaid circumstances, the Court did not consider the matter in the correct perspective and the finding recorded by the Court that the application was within time, is a perverse finding which cannot be sustained. In support of his submission, learned Senior Counsel has relied upon the decision of the Apex Court in Chintal (India) Ltd. v. Bhayana Builders (P) Ltd ; (2021) 4 SCC 602. 22. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has further urged that the issue of limitation goes to the roots of the matter. As soon as the petitioner received the notice of the Petition under Section 34 of the Act 1996 and put in appearance before the Court, preliminary objections were raised at the first instance. It was urged that there is no dispute between the parties in so far as the fact that the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 was filed by the contesting respondent beyond the period of three months. It is also not in dispute that the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 was not accompanied by an application seeking condonation of delay. 23. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner emphasized that the first order passed by the Commercial Court dated 17.01.2024 (which is under challenge in the Petition No.3886 of 2024) by which it registered the petition itself was bad. Attention of the Court was drawn to the order dated 17.01.2024 to state that as per the Munsarim report the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 was appropriately stamped with court fee and it was within the territorial jurisdiction of the Court. It also noticed that the petition was time barred but in view of the order passed by the High Court, which has been brought on record (of the petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996) as Annexure-7 with the petition, it was not time barred. Considering the said report the case was registered and notices were issued to the petitioner. 24. It is submitted by the learned Senior Counsel that this reference to the order passed by the High Court and that the Petition was within time, is a complete misreading of the order of the High Court since the High Court did not condone the delay nor directed that the Petition to be treated within time, hence the basic registration of the case as a regular Petition, treating it to be within time, itself was bad. 25. Learned Senior Counsel has further urged that this fact came to the notice of the petitioner only when the summons from the Commercial Court was served on the petitioner and immediately, the preliminary objections were raised. The petitioner had raised a two fold objections: (i) related to the non compliance of Section 19 of the Act of 2006 which mandates deposit of 75% amount of the arbitral award. Since the Petition under Section 34 did not accompany the said pre-deposit, hence the petition could not be entertained; (ii) The petition under Section 34 of the Act was barred by limitation: 26. It is urged, that as far as the objections regarding non deposit of 75% of the awarded sum is concerned, the same may not have much bearing now as the same was made good by the contesting respondent in light of the order passed by the Division Bench of this Court in Writ-C No.3594 of 2024. However, the issue of limitation still survived for the reason that despite bringing it to the notice of the Court, in writing yet the contesting respondent did not file any application seeking condonation of delay. Even in the Petition filed under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, there was no prayer nor any averments were made to seek condonation of delay. 27. Significantly, while the petitioner had filed his preliminary objections in writing which was responded by the contesting respondent yet he did not make any application for seeking condonation of delay. In such circumstances where there was no application seeking condonation of delay despite notice to the contesting respondent who had the opportunity to avail but did not. Hence, in light of the clear mandate propounded by the Apex Court in Chintal India (supra) the Petition was beyond time and therefore neither the delay could have been condoned nor the petition itself could have been registered as a regular Petition. 28. It was submitted that the Court without giving any cogent reason, in a mechanical manner, has turned down the preliminary objection holding that they were not maintainable and this was apparently erroneous as the order suffers from non application of judicial mind apart from the fact that it is arbitrary and against the settled principle of law, hence it deserves to be set aside and as a consequence, the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 filed by the contesting respondent deserves to be dismissed as time barred. 29. Per contra, Shri Sarvesh Dubey, learned counsel for the contesting respondent has submitted that the issue of limitation as sought to be projected by the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner is not correct. It is urged that the contesting respondent had assailed the award dated 27.09.2023 by filing writ petition before a Division Bench of this Court bearing Writ-C No.8511 of 2023. The said petition was disposed of on 17.10.2023 by permitting the contesting respondent to avail the alternate remedy to file objection under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 before the appropriate Court. On 16.10.2023 the contesting respondent had already filed the petition before the Commercial Court which was taken up on 17.10.2023 and noticing the order passed by the Division Bench, the Petition was treated to be within time and in such circumstances the issue of delay did not arise at all. It is for the aforesaid reason that the Commercial Court has rightly rejected the preliminary objection relating to limitation as not maintainable since, the Petition itself was rightly filed within the time prescribed as per law. 30. Shri Dubey, has further pointed out that the contesting respondent had also filed his objections to the preliminary objections raised by the petitioner wherein it was clearly stated that the petition was filed on 16.01.2024 and considering the facts and circumstances the delay was condoned. The Petition was admitted and in any case the contesting respondent was entitled to the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, if required, hence the contention of the petitioner that the petition was time barred was not correct. 31. Shri Dubey has further urged that there is another aspect of the matter which requires consideration and i.e. the issue of approbate and reprobate. It is submitted that the petitioner had put in appearance in the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 and had also raised a contention that the Petition was not maintainable for want of predeposit of 75% of the awarded sum in terms of Section 19 of the Act of 2006. The contesting respondent had deposited 75% of the award and it was also got released by the petitioner in the proceedings pending before the Commercial Court. Once the Petition itself (if not maintainable for being time barred) then the petitioner could not have insisted for deposit of 75% of the amount. Now having contested the proceedings and having insisted for making the pre deposit and having participated in the proceedings to get the amount released, is all indicative of the fact that the petitioner by its own conduct had given up the plea of limitation. Moreover, by conduct the petitioner could not approbate and reprobate, hence the Commercial Court rightly rejected the preliminary objection and the petitioner is also not entitled to raise the issue of limitation before this Court, as it is misconceived and deserves to be dismissed. 32. Shri Dubey, in support of his submission has relied upon the decision of a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Rakesh Kumar Jain v. Zulfkar Ali; 2023 SCC OnLine All 2821. He has also relied upon a decision of the Orissa High Court in Faridabad Gurgaon Minerals v. Orissa Mining Corporation Ltd. ; AIR 2007 Ori 179 and he has further relied upon the decision of the Apex Court in State of Uttar Pradesh v. Karunesh Kumar and others ; 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1705. 33. Shri Dubey while pressing the Petition bearing No.5145 of 2024 has urged that the order releasing the amount in favour of the petitioner is against the mandate of Section 19 of the Act of 2006. No reasons have been recorded despite the fact that on an earlier occasion a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Writ Petition No.3611 of 2024 had directed the Commercial Court to pass a reasoned order. 34. It was further urged that the Commercial Court did not record any reason as to what were the circumstances which prevailed and persuaded the Commercial Court to pass an order releasing the entire sum of 75% of deposited amount. There was no justification for the Commercial Court to have directed the contesting respondent to furnish a security for the remaining 25% of the award and subject to it the recovery proceedings were to be stayed, and the said direction was apparently bad in the eyes of law. 35. It was also urged that even the High Court had noticed that the award was not valid and he relied upon para-17 of the order of the Division Bench of this Court dated 19.04.2024 passed in Writ Petition-C No.3594 of 2024 hence there was no reason to release any amount or require the contesting respondent to furnish a security. 36. Shri Dubey further submitted that in case if this Court found that the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 was barred by limitation then this Court would necessarily pass an appropriate direction directing the petitioner to return the amount received by him as the petitioner cannot be permitted to retain the benefits of an order and yet challenge the same. In such circumstances, it was urged that the petition filed by the petitioner bearing No.3886 of 2024 was liable to be dismissed and the Petition No.5141 of 2024 deserved to be allowed. 37. Responding to the submissions of Shri Dubey in so far as the Petition No.5451 of 2024 is concerned, Shri Pritish Kumar, learned Senior Counsel urged that the Act of 2006 is a special enactment which clearly indicates in Section 19 that making a pre deposit was mandatory. Once the amount was deposited, the Court was justified in releasing the same. In order to protect the rights of the parties, the Court had already put the petitioner on terms, to file an indemnity to the extent that in case if an order was passed adverse to the petitioner, in the petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, then the petitioner would refund the said released amount alongwith 6% interest per annum to the Court. 38. Learned Senior Counsel has further urged that it is now to well settled that a money decree is not stayed. In the given circumstances where the Act of 2006 provides for recovery through the State Authorities and it was resorted to then in order to get stay the proceedings, the contesting respondent deposited the amount on his own. The intention of the contesting respondent to deposit the said sum was also noticed by the Division Bench in its order dated 19.04.2024 passed in Writ-C No.3594 of 2024. The said amount was for the benefit of the petitioner. The petitioner has already submitted the indemnity as required by the Commercial Court and in such circumstances the order dated 27.09.2024 releasing the sum in favour of the petitioner and requiring the contesting respondent to furnish a security for the remaining 25% cannot be said to be bad rather its only in consonance with law, which requires no interference. 39. It was further urged by the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner that even the pre deposit of 75% which has been made is only 75% of the amount as indicated in the award dated 27.09.2023 rather as per the Act of 2006 the pre deposit of 75% is to be computed on the total decreetal amount, computed alongwith updated interest, till the date when the petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 was made. This compliance in the instant case was insufficient and in any case the Commercial Court has granted indulgence to the contesting respondent by accepting insufficient amount as compliance, which is not as per law and in the given circumstances, the Petition filed by the contesting respondent deserves to be dismissed. Discussion and Analysis 40. The Court has heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and also perused the material on record. 41. At the outset, it will be appropriate to notice Section 5 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act of 1996 vis-a-vis the scope of interference by this Court in exercise of power under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India. In this regard, the decision of the Apex Court in Bhaven Construction v. Sardar Sarover Narmada Nigam Ltd. ; (2022) 1 SCC 75 gives guidance and the relevant observations of the Apex Court is as under:- (emphasis in original)
 
 If the courts are allowed to interfere with the arbitral process beyond the ambit of the enactment, then the efficiency of the process will be diminished." 42. In a recent decision, the Apex Court in Shri Digant v. M/s P.D.T. Trading Co. and others; 2025 SCC OnLine SC 2524 considering the scope of Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India in context with order arising out of the District Courts the Apex Court has noticed as under:- 43. Keeping the aforesaid parameters in mind, this Court proceeds to examine the contention of the respective parties. The issue of limitation definitely goes to the roots of the jurisdiction of the Court to entertain a matter, in the first place. It is now to well settled that Section 5 of the Limitation Act is not applicable to the proceedings under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 (see Union of India v. Popular Construction Co. ; (2001) 8 SCC 470 which was followed by the Apex Court in Simplex Infrastructure v. Union of India ; (2019) 2 SCC 455 wherein in para 11 it was noticed as under:- 44. The facts in the instant case relating to the issue of limitation are not in dispute between the parties. It is not disputed that the contesting respondent assailed the award passed by the Facilitation Council by filing Writ-C No.8511 of 2023. The Division Bench of this Court on 05.10.2023 had passed the following order which reads as under:- 45. Later on 17.10.2023 the Division Bench in the said petition passed the following order:- 46. From the perusal of the order dated 17.10.2023 as quoted above, it would reveal that the counsel for the contesting respondent (herein) was not present before the Court. However, taking note of the fact that the contesting respondent had an alternate remedy of filing objection under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, the Court did not deem appropriate to entertain the petition and after granting the aforesaid liberty, consigned the petition to record. 47. The record further indicates that the contesting respondent filed the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 before the Commercial Court on 16.01.2024. This was taken up by the Court concerned on 17.01.2024. The Commercial Court on 17.01.2024 had passed an order, which is under challenge in this petition, and it is being reproduced hereinafter:- 48. Another fact which needs to be seen at this stage is as to whether the High Court in its order had granted any indulgence to the contesting respondent by which the Petition which otherwise was barred by limitation could have been treated to be within time. 49. In order to examine this aspect, the contents of paragraphs 45 to 48 of the Petition filed by the contesting respondent under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 is being reproduced hereinafter for ready reference:- 50. From the perusal of the aforesaid, it would be clear that annexure no.7 which has been referred to by the Commercial Court in its order dated 17.01.2024 it is the same order which was passed by the Division Bench of this Court in Writ-C No.8511 of 2023. The said order has already been reproduced hereinabove and it would be clear that the Court except for permitting the contesting respondent to take recourse to the alternate remedy did not provide any further liberty or any further indulgence so as to impact the merit or disability in the petition. The Division Bench clearly did not make any observation which could be construed as an observation that the delay, if any, would stand condoned or would be ignored whenever the contesting respondent choose to take recourse to the alternate remedy of filing objection under Section 34 of the Act of 1996. 51. In this background, the observations made by the Commercial Court in its order dated 17.01.2024 that though the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 was barred by limitation but because of the order passed by the High Court (order which was annexure no.7) the Petition was not time barred, is apparently a clear case of misreading and misconstruing the order passed by the High Court. 52. The petitioner having received the summon and had put in appearance before the Commercial Court and filed his preliminary objections on 12.02.2024 raising the issue of maintainability on two counts (i) the Petition under Section 34 was bad for non compliance of Section 19 of the Act of 2006 as it was not accompanied with a pre deposit of 75% of the decreetal amount, (ii) the Petition was barred by limitation in terms of Section 34 (3) of the Act of 1996. 53. In its reply, the contesting respondent, insofar as the issue of limitation is concerned, pleaded its stance in paragraph 12 and 13 as under:- 54. At this stage, it will also be relevant to notice the prayer made by the contesting respondent in its Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 which reads as under:- 55. The entire purpose of taking note of the aforesaid pleadings and response is to ascertain as to how the contesting respondent envisioned its own case. The stand of the contesting respondent was that the Petition was within time. Even if there was a delay, the same was condoned by the Court and in any case since the contesting respondent had filed Writ-C No.8511 of 2023 assailing the award dated 27.09.2023, hence the contesting respondent was entitled to the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act. Thus, the Commercial Court did not err in rejecting the preliminary objection relating to the issue of limitation raised by the petitioner. 56. In this regard, this Court notices the settled proposition that Section 5 of the Limitation Act does not apply to proceeding under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, whereas Section 14 of the Act of 1963 is applicable. The difference in the two sections and its applicability to arbitration proceedings as aforesaid was noticed by the Apex Court in Consolidated Engineering Enterprises v. Principal Secretary, Irrigation Department and others ; (2008) 7 SCC 169 and the relevant portion is reproduced as under:- 22 . The policy of the section is to afford protection to a litigant against the bar of limitation when he institutes a proceeding which by reason of some technical defect cannot be decided on merits and is dismissed. While considering the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, proper approach will have to be adopted and the provisions will have to be interpreted so as to advance the cause of justice rather than abort the proceedings. It will be well to bear in mind that an element of mistake is inherent in the invocation of Section 14 . In fact, the section is intended to provide relief against the bar of limitation in cases of mistaken remedy or selection of a wrong forum. On reading Section 14 of the Act it becomes clear that the legislature has enacted the said section to exempt a certain period covered by a bona fide litigious activity. Upon the words used in the section, it is not possible to sustain the interpretation that the principle underlying the said section, namely, that the bar of limitation should not affect a person honestly doing his best to get his case tried on merits but failing because the court is unable to give him such a trial, would not be applicable to an application filed under Section 34 of the Act of 1996. The principle is clearly applicable not only to a case in which a litigant brings his application in the court, that is, a court having no jurisdiction to entertain it but also where he brings the suit or the application in the wrong court in consequence of bona fide mistake or (sic of) law or defect of procedure. Having regard to the intention of the legislature this Court is of the firm opinion that the equity underlying Section 14 should be applied to its fullest extent and time taken diligently pursuing a remedy, in a wrong court, should be excluded. 23 . At this stage it would be relevant to ascertain whether there is any express provision in the Act of 1996, which excludes the applicability of Section 14 of the Limitation Act. On review of the provisions of the Act of 1996 this Court finds that there is no provision in the said Act which excludes the applicability of the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act to an application submitted under Section 34 of the said Act. On the contrary, this Court finds that Section 43 makes the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 applicable to arbitration proceedings. The proceedings under Section 34 are for the purpose of challenging the award whereas the proceeding referred to under Section 43 are the original proceedings which can be equated with a suit in a court. Hence, Section 43 incorporating the Limitation Act will apply to the proceedings in the arbitration as it applies to the proceedings of a suit in the court. Sub-section (4) of Section 43, inter alia, provides that where the court orders that an arbitral award be set aside, the period between the commencement of the arbitration and the date of the order of the court shall be excluded in computing the time prescribed by the Limitation Act, 1963 , for the commencement of the proceedings with respect to the dispute so submitted. If the period between the commencement of the arbitration proceedings till the award is set aside by the court, has to be excluded in computing the period of limitation provided for any proceedings with respect to the dispute, there is no good reason as to why it should not be held that the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act would be applicable to an application submitted under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, more particularly where no provision is to be found in the Act of 1996, which excludes the applicability of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, to an application made under Section 34 of the Act. It is to be noticed that the powers under Section 34 of the Act can be exercised by the court only if the aggrieved party makes an application. The jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act, cannot be exercised suo motu. The total period of four months within which an application, for setting aside an arbitral award, has to be made is not unusually long. Section 34 of the Act of 1996 would be unduly oppressive, if it is held that the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act are not applicable to it, because cases are no doubt conceivable where an aggrieved party, despite exercise of due diligence and good faith, is unable to make an application within a period of four months. From the scheme and language of Section 34 of the Act of 1996, the intention of the legislature to exclude the applicability of Section 14 of the Limitation Act is not manifest. It is well to remember that Section 14 of the Limitation Act does not provide for a fresh period of limitation but only provides for the exclusion of a certain period. Having regard to the legislative intent, it will have to be held that the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963 would be applicable to an application submitted under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 for setting aside an arbitral award. * * * 28. Further, there is fundamental distinction between the discretion to be exercised under Section 5 of the Limitation Act and exclusion of the time provided in Section 14 of the said Act. The power to excuse delay and grant an extension of time under Section 5 is discretionary whereas under Section 14 , exclusion of time is mandatory, if the requisite conditions are satisfied. Section 5 is broader in its sweep than Section 14 in the sense that a number of widely different reasons can be advanced and established to show that there was sufficient cause in not filing the appeal or the application within time. The ingredients in respect of Sections 5 and 14 are different. The effect of Section 14 is that in order to ascertain what is the date of expiration of the prescribed period, the days excluded from operating by way of limitation, have to be added to what is primarily the period of limitation prescribed. Having regard to all these principles, it is difficult to hold that the decision in Popular Construction Co. [(2001) 8 SCC 470] rules that the provisions of Section 14 of the Limitation Act would not apply to an application challenging an award under Section 34 of the Act." 57. In order to avail the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, the Court concerned (who was dealing with the issue as to whether the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act is to be granted or not) was required to ascertain whether the following conditions were met or not. 58. Now in order to ascertain whether the aforesaid mentioned conditions were applicable, the Court, necessarily was obliged to look at the pleading made by the respective parties before it. Even for the purposes of condoning the delay, the party seeking the indulgence of the Court must plead and demonstrate that it was prevented by a sufficient cause from filing the Petition/appeal/application before the Court within the prescribed period of limitation. Thus, whether a party claims the benefit of Section 5 or Section 14 of the Limitation Act, the pleadings in this regard assumes significance. 59. In the instant case, it is no doubt true that the Petition filed under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 was beyond three months from the date of the award but it was filed within 30 days thereafter. This period of additional 30 days is significant for the reason that the Court dealing with an application under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 has the power to condone the delay of this additional 30 days, which is in terms of Section 34(3) of the Act 1996 and not in terms of Section 5 of the Limitation Act. 60. In this context, if at all there is a delay, which is within the condonable period of 30 days as aforesaid, then, it has to be explained. It is not as if, despite the delay and there being no application seeking condonation of delay and not even a prayer made in this regard yet it would entitle the court to automatically condone the delay nor the Court would condone the delay merely because it is within the condonable period of 30 days in terms of Section 34(3) of the Act of 1996, irrespective of the explanation offered by the party seeking condonation of delay. 61. What the Court is required to do is to ascertain as to whether the ground shown for approaching the Court with delay and of course which is within the condonable period, constitutes a sufficient cause. Once, the Court is satisfied that the delay in approaching the Court, is within the condonable period of 30 days but beyond three months, as provided under Section 34(3) of the Act of 1996 and the explanation offered constitutes a sufficient cause then the delay can be condoned. This necessarily means applying the judicial mind to the cause shown, the contention of the opposing party and the reason recorded by the Court to reach its conclusion. 62. Now, if a party is seeking the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act then in such a case the Court would be required to examine whether the conditions subsist for grant of the benefit of the Section 14 on the basis of pleading and then applying it to the facts of the given case, the Court will have to record its satisfaction that the pleadings set out by a party claiming the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act has made out a case and only then the benefit of Section 14 can be granted. 63. At this stage, it will be appropriate to consider the decision of the Apex Court in Chintal India (supra) which has been made the pivot of the submission by the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner. In Chintal India (supra) the issue before the Apex Court was whether an order passed by a Court refusing to condone the delay in filing an application under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 is an appealable order under Section 37(1)(c) of the Act. It is in this context that the Apex Court considered several decisions and taking aid of the "effect doctrine" held that by refusing to condone the delay, the effect is, that the Court refuses to set aside the award which in terms of Section 37(1)(c) of the Act of 1996 is appealable and such an appeal would be maintainable. 64. Needless to say that the Apex Court was not dealing with a situation as to what should be the content in a Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 or as to how the said Petition is to be construed. It is also equally settled that the judgment is not to be construed like euclid theorem and an observation in a judgment torn out of its context cannot be said to conclude an issue. It is in this regard, the observations made by the Apex Court in Chintal India (supra) more particularly paragraph 11, which for the sake of clarity is being reproduced hereinafter:- 65. The aforesaid paragraph would reveal that the Apex Court was not dealing with such an issue so as to hold that a petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1992 must be accompanied by a separate application for condonation of delay. The observations made therein can be seen as a prudent course which may be adopted by a person while filing its petition under Section 34 of the Act. However, merely because an application seeking condonation of delay has not been made separately will per se not make the Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 not maintainable. There may be a situation where a Petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 may be barred by limitation and the petitioner in such a Petition itself may have made averments regarding sufficient cause and may have even sought a prayer in the petition itself without making a separate application for seeking condonation of delay. Hence, in such circumstances, it cannot be said that the observations made by the Apex Court in paragraph 11 above, indicates that a petition under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 in all circumstances must be accompanied with a separate application for seeking condonation of delay. It is for the aforesaid reason, that this Court finds that the submissions of the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner is too technical and is an attempt to tear out the observations of the Apex Court out of context. 66. For the purposes of clarity it will be worthwhile to notice another decision of the Apex Court in Shesh Nath Singh and another v. Baidyabati Sheoraphuli Cooperative Bank Ltd. and another ; (2021) 7 SCC 313 wherein the issue of condonation of delay was considered by the Apex Court and in paragraphs 59 to 63, it held as under :- 67. Thus having considered the decision of the Apex Court as noticed hereinabove, it can be safely be said, that it is not merely because the application under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 was not accompanied by a separate application seeking condonation of delay, per se would make the application under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 not maintainable without considering as to whether in the pleading any ground was set out for condonation of delay or for grant of benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act or any prayer was made to the aforesaid effect or not. 68. Insofar as the decision cited by Shri Dubey is concerned, suffice to state that the decision of a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Rakesh Kumar Jain (supra) in an a different fact situation and is in context with Section 5 of the Limitation Act as applicable to the civil proceedings and not in context with the Arbitration & Conciliation Act , 1996as such may not be applicable to the instant case, hence it does not come to the aid of the contesting respondent. For the same reason, the decision of Faridabad Gurgaon Minerals (supra) also does not help the contesting respondent. Similarly, the decision of the Apex Court in Karunesh Kumar (supra) deals with the proposition of approbate and reprobate, which though as a proposition is not disputed but the said proposition of approbate and reprobate has no applicability in the instant case, hence the said judgment also does not help the contesting respondent. 69. Now applying the aforesaid principles to the facts of the instant case, it would reveal that the Commercial Court while dealing with the issue of limitation has merely referred to the contention of the respective parties and referred to the Munsarim report as furnished and in his report and in terms of the order passed by the High Court, the Petition was within time. The relevant portion relating to the finding recorded by the Commercial Court in its order dated 20.06.2024 is being reproduced hereinafter:- 70. The reasoning of the Commercial Court that the Petition was filed beyond 90 days but within 30 days thereafter i.e. to say within 120 days and the ground indicated for such delay was the filing of the Writ Petition No.8511 of 2023 before the High Court which was disposed of on 17.10.2023, hence the Petition was registered, as being within time and that the record from the Arbitrator had been summoned, hence, in such circumstances, the preliminary objections are not maintainable, reflects poorly, for more than one reason: (i) First and foremost, the issue of limitation was a jurisdictional issue which was to be considered with most seriousness, which is not reflected from the above quoted, reasoning of the said Court. Merely because the Munsarim had given an incorrect report would not mean that substantive right of the party can be subsumed because of the Munsarim report or that the Court loses its jurisdiction to adjudicate the issue of limitation. The report of the Munsarim is subservient to the order of the Court and not vise versa; (ii) This Court is pained to notice that the Commercial Court failed to even read the order passed by the Division Bench of this Court dated 17.10.2023 passed in Writ-C No.8511 of 2023. It has already been noticed in the preceding paragraphs that the Division Bench in its order dated 17.10.2023 did not make any observation relating to condoning of delay or giving any indication or direction that whenever the contesting respondent filed objections under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, the same would be treated to be within time and be considered on merits, curtailing the right of the petitioner (opposite party before Commercial Court) to raise the issue of limitation; (iii) Even otherwise, if the Munsarim had given an incorrect report and at the first given opportunity, the petitioner had pointed out the said fact by filing his preliminary objection then it was the duty of the Commercial Court to have applied its judicial mind to the controversy and to have decided. However, without entering into the controversy, relating to limitation it has skirted the issue by holding that the Munsarim had given a report and the record had been summoned from the Arbitrator, hence the preliminary objections were not maintainable, make the order impugned vulnerable; (iv) It appears that the Commercial Court was not aware of the difference between entertainability and maintainability. It is one thing to say that an objection relating to limitation may not be entertained but in the given circumstances, there can be no reason why an issue of limitation could be held to be not maintainable, merely because a Munsarim had given a report which was based on a clear misreading of the order passed by the High Court; (v) Another reason which reflects poorly on the Commercial Court is that even if at all, it was turning down the preliminary objection regarding limitation then the least that was required to be done was to have accorded some cogent reason to arrive at a conclusion, which would have some legal logic behind it. 71. Apparently, as already noticed above, the contesting respondent had made no prayer for condonation of delay nor any separate application for seeking condonation of delay was moved moreover, there was no pleadings for seeking benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act nor there was any pleadings to show as to how the contesting respondent was entitled to get the benefit of condonation of delay or Section 14 of the Limitation Act and yet the Commercial Court rejected the objection on limitation as not maintainable which is patently perverse and it suffers from the vice of being non reasoned and arbitrary exercise of jurisdiction and the said order is liable to be set aside. 72. In light of the aforesaid detailed discussions, this Court finds that the order dated 20.06.2024 passed by the Commercial Court is patently erroneous and cannot be sustained, in so far as it rejected the preliminary objection on the point of limitation. To that extent, the order dated 20.06.2024 is set aside. The Commercial Court shall decide the issue of limitation, a fresh, by taking note of the clear pleadings of the parties and decide as to whether it is a case for condonation of delay or it is a case for seeking exclusion of time in terms of Section 14 of the Limitation Act, by a reasoned and a speaking order, taking into consideration the observations made by this Court. An endeavour would be made to decide the issue of limitation as aforesaid as expeditiously as possible, preferably within a period of four weeks, from the date a copy of this order is placed before the Court concerned. 73. It is made clear that this Court has not entered into the veracity of the pleadings and has not made any observations as to whether a case for condonation or case for exclusion of time is made out or not, which will be for the Commercial Court to do, of course, in light of the observations made hereinabove and in accordance with law. The fresh order to be passed as aforesaid, would govern the fate of the order dated 17.01.2024. Thus, the Petition No.3886 of 2024 is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms. Discussion in respect of Writ Petition No.5145 of 2024 74. In order to appreciate the controversy in the connected petition bearing No.5145 of 2024, it will be appropriate to notice the reliefs prayed by the contesting respondent (who is the petitioner of Writ Petition No.5145) as under:- 75. The thrust of the submission advanced by Shri Dubey is that the Division Bench of this Court in its order dated 19.04.2024 passed in Writ-C No.3594 of 2024 noticed that the award passed by the Facilitation Council was no award in the eyes of law. Once such an observation was made by the Division Bench of the High Court, and the very same award was under challenge in proceedings under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, in such circumstance, it was not just and appropriate for the Commercial Court to have released to deposit sum in favour of the petitioner i.e. M/s Genebio Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. 76. If this submission is considered, the record would reveal that the observations made by the Division Bench in the aforesaid order was in context with the submission advanced by the contesting respondent in his petition before the High Court. A copy of the order passed by the High Court is on record as annexure no.11 with Writ Petition No.5145 of 2024 and it would reveal that from paragraph 9 onwards the Court has considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the contesting respondent. The observations of the Court has been mentioned in paragraph 18 and 23 to 25 of the said order and the relevant portion thereof reads as under:- 77. The aforesaid order of the Division Bench would reveal that it had not expressed any opinion regarding the award passed by the Facilitation Council. The observation in paragraph-17 of the judgment, as relied upon by the counsel for the contesting respondent is being torn out of context. Thus, this Court is not inclined to accept this submission that the Division Bench had recorded any finding or observed that the award passed by the Facilitation Council was no award in the eyes of law and that was binding on the Commercial Court 78. Needless to say that the said award is under challenge before the Commercial Court in proceedings under Section 34 of the Act 1996 which is the appropriate forum where the validity of the award will be tested on the grounds mentioned in Section 34 of the Act of 1996 and the said court would deal with it in accordance with law. 79. The other submission of Shri Dubey that the Commercial Court has not given any cogent reason as to why the said amount should be released in favour of the petitioner, if examined in context with Section 19 of the Act of 2006, it would reveal that there is a legislative mandate for the Court to balance the equities between the parties. Section 19 of the Act of 2006 reads as under:- 80. The aforesaid provision is clear that if any award passed under the Act of 2006 is challenged, it must be accompanied by a pre-deposit of 75% of the decreetal amount which is mandatory as also held by the Apex Court in Tirupati Steel v. Subh Industrial Component and other; (2022) 7 SCC 429. The proviso appended to Section 19 also clarifies that the Court can release such amount in favour of the supplier as it may deem reasonable and such release can be subjected to condition as the Court may deem necessary. 81. The Apex Court in India Glycols Ltd. v. MSEFC, Telangana; (2025) 5 SCC 780 wherein Section 19 of the Act of 2006 was considered and in para 9 to 12 the Apex Court held as under:- 82. It is in exercise of this power, the Commercial Court considering the application made by the petitioner has taken note of the reasons given therein and has exercised its jurisdiction to release the deposited amount in favour of the petitioner, subject to the petitioner filing an undertaking that in case any adverse order is passed against the petitioner in proceedings under Section 34 of the Act of 1996, the petitioner would be bound to return the aforesaid amount to the Court alongwith interest at the rate of 6% per annum. 83. From the perusal of the order dated 27.09.2024, it reveals that the Commercial Court has taken note of the respective submissions advanced by the counsel for the parties, considered the averments made in the application for release and taking note of the provision of Section 19 , and then it has released the amount by recording reason. This exercise of jurisdiction, by the Commercial Court cannot be said to be inflicted with any error of law or jurisdiction nor it has been exercised with any illegality or material irregularity which may persuade this Court to interfere in the said order on the aforesaid premise. 84. It will also be relevant to notice that the Commercial Court had ordered release of the amount earlier and the said order was assailed by the contesting respondent by filing Writ Petition No.3611 of 2024 before a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court. The Co-ordinate Bench in its order dated noticed that the order impugned could not be sustained as it did not contain reasons. The Court had set aside the order and directed the Commercial Court No.2, Lucknow to pass fresh orders on the release application. 85. It is thereafter, the Commercial Court found that the supplier i.e. the petitioner herein was small scale industry and in case if the amount is not released it would cause grave hardship to the petitioner and by recording reasons, it released the amount. In order to protect the rights of the contesting respondent, it has also directed that in case of any order passed in favour of the contesting respondent and adverse to the petitioner in proceedings under Section 34 of the Act of 1999, then the petitioner would return the aforesaid released amount alongwith interest at the rate of 6% per annum. In this way the rights of the contesting parties have been protected and the mandate of the proviso appended to Section 19 has also been achieved. Thus, it cannot be said that the order suffers from any vice of error of jurisdiction or that it is non speaking or non reasoned. 86. It is now to well settled to be disputed that a money decree is not stayed. In case, if a patently erroneous judgment/award/decree comes before a Court and is under challenge on the ground of egregious fraud which is patent on the face of the record. In such circumstances, the Court may stay a money decree. However, as a general rule money decree is not stayed. Even otherwise the Court has a jurisdiction to secure the decreetal amount and it may also release such part of the decreetal amount as Court may deem just and proper in the facts of the case. [See Lifestyle Equities C.V. v. Amazon Technologies , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 2153]. Thus, it cannot be gainfully urged that a money decree must as a matter of course be stayed. 87. The grounds which are raised by the learned counsel for the contesting respondent will have to be tested before the Commercial Court in proceedings under Section 34. Subject to the outcome of the said proceedings under Section 34, the order passed by the Commercial Court dated 27.09.2024 would follow suit. 88. It is also to be noticed that the Commercial Court has directed the contesting respondent to furnish a valuable security for the remaining 25% of the decreetal amount, this direction issued in exercise of the jurisdiction to secure the decreetal amount also cannot be said to be bad. 89. The entire crux of the contention of the learned counsel for the contesting respondent is that the award passed by the Facilitation Council was behind his back and without granting proper opportunity. This is something which has to be seen on the basis of the record by the Commercial Court. It is not a case of egregious fraud which is apparent from the record and in such circumstances, it cannot be said, that by directing the contesting respondent to furnish a security for 25% of the remaining sum subject to which the recovery proceedings against the contesting respondent shall remain stayed, also does not suffer from any error, rather it is an appropriate course of action which has been taken by the Commercial Court and it cannot be faulted. As a fortiori direction sought by the contesting respondent to refund the money which has been released in favour of the petitioner cannot be passed. Accordingly, this Court does not find that there is any merit in the petition filed by the contesting respondent. Conclusion 90. For the detailed reasons recorded hereinabove Petition No.3886 of 2024, M/s Genebio Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. through Director Arun Kumar Srivastava v. Paradigm Enterprises through Director Ritika Pandey and others is partly allowed, whereas Petition No.5145 of 2024, Paradigm Enterprises v. Micro, Small and others shall stand dismissed. In the facts and circumstances, there shall be no order as to costs. (Jaspreet Singh,J.)
 

 
January 21, 2026
 
ank