(PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE J.B.PARDIWALA)

 By this writ application in the nature of public interest litigation,
the petitioner, a resident of village Malan, Taluka Palanpur, District
Banaskantha, has questioned the legality and validity of few
discretionary allotments of plots to 28 odd individuals residing in the
village. Shorn of facts, the case of the petitioner appears to be that the land
bearing survey No.740/2 of village Malan is a gaucher land. The land
was treated as gaucher land vide order of the Collector dated 13 th January
1954 and such order culminated in entry No.645 in the record of rights. C/WPPIL/245/2012 ORDER

It appears that in the year 2010, the authorities by way of auction alloted
plots to 28 individuals admeasuring 83 sq. mtrs. The details of such
allotments could be gathered from Annexure C to the petition. Mr.Kinariwala, the learned advocate appearing on behalf of the
petitioner submitted that the authorities concerned could not have made
such allotments of plots and that too of gaucher land. Mr.Kinariwala
submitted that it is very doubtful whether any such auction proceedings
were at all conducted for the purpose of allotment. Having heard the learned advocates for the parties and having gone
through the materials on record, we find that in the year 1990, to be
precise vide order dated 19th April 1990, passed by the Collector, 5 acres
of gaucher land forming part of survey No.740/2 was ordered to be
resumed from the Panchayat. It also appears that at the relevant point of
time, such resumption of 5 acres of gaucher land was not objected to by
the Panchayat. In exercise of powers under section 98 of the Gujarat
Panchayats Act, land admeasuring 5 acres from survey No.740/2 was
deleted from the head of gaucher. The allotment of plots which is the subject matter of challenge
forms that part of five acres of land which was deleted from the head of
gaucher. Therefore, so far as the first grievance voiced by the petitioner
is concerned, that the land is a gaucher land does not appear to be
correct. Secondly, the allegations that the allotments were made without
any valid auction proceedings also does not appear to be correct. It
appears from the materials on record that the auctions were conducted on
a particular date, the amount deposited has also been stated including the
receipt numbers issued in favour of the purchasers of the said plots. C/WPPIL/245/2012 ORDER

 We may take notice of the fact that these allotments are in favour
of people hailing from poor strata of the society. The allotments are not
so vast. Apart from that, the allotments were made almost four years
back. The petitioner being a resident of the same village was expected to
approach this Court at the earliest. Almost after a period of two years
from the date of allotment, he has questioned the legality and validity of
the same. By now, the people must have already settled in their houses
constructed on the said plots. It is well settled that the principle of delay
and laches would even apply in a public interest litigation and in a given
case, even if the Court finds some irregularity, it may refuse to interfere
in exercise of its writ jurisdiction for the purpose of doing substantial
justice. In the overall consideration of the entire case, we do not find any
patent illegality in the allotment of the plots which warrants any further
inquiry in the matter. Had it been a large scale fraud or scam of allotment
of lands of huge parcels, we would have definitely considered the same. For the foregoing reasons, we do not find any merit in this writ
application and being devoid of any merit, we reject the same
accordingly. No costs. (AKIL KURESHI, J.)

 (J.B.PARDIWALA, J.)
(vjn) Page 3 of 3