The Department of Telecom (DoT) has informed that it has managed to reduce spoofed international calls from Indian number by 90% in two months. These calls may display Indian numbers, but are actually made by foreign cybercriminals who manipulate the Calling Line Identity (CLI). The callers often attempt to defraud citizens by impersonating government or police officials and threatening the disconnection of mobile numbers or even ‘digital arrests.’

The crackdown began after the DoT launched the ‘International Incoming Spoofed Calls Prevention System,’ on October 22, 2024. A press release stated that within 24 hours of the system coming online, it was able to identify about 1.35 crore or 90% of all incoming international calls with tempered Indian phone numbers as spoof calls. Telecom Service Providers (TSPs) subsequently blocked these calls from reaching Indian telecom subscribers. According to the the DoT’s December reports, the number of such fraudulent calls has decreased to only 6 lakhs, indicating that the system was successful.

However, the DoT warned that scammers were now using international phone numbers (starting with +8, +85, +65) instead of Indian ones (+91) to pretend they’re government officials. To combat this, the DoT created a dedicated task force comprising of various stakeholders which recommended TSPs to label all incoming international calls as “International Call.” Airtel has already implemented this, while other companies are working on it.

MediaNama had previously covered this system when the government had announced it two months ago, pointing out that the way ‘International Incoming Spoofed Calls Prevention System’ actually works was unknown.

We had also pointed out the following concerns about the system:

MediaNama has filed an RTI with the DoT asking for more information about the system and sent the following questions to the department:

We will update the story if we receive a response.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event