CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal Nos. 6814
of 1981 etc.
 From the Judgment and Order dated 23.6.1982 of	 the
Madhya Pradesh High Court in M. P. No. 1028 of 1981. L. N. Sinha, M. K. Rammamurthy, K. K. Vinugopal, V. M.
Tarkunde, P. R. Mirdul, P. P.	 Singh, R. N. Poddar, Umesh
Mishra,	 M. A. Krishnamoorthy, Indira Sawhney, Kittu
Bansilal, Chandan Malhotra, J.	 Rammurthy, R. Vaigai, H. K.
Puri, V. K. Bhal, K.	V. Sreekumar,	R. Sathish, S. S.
Khanduja, Yashpal Dhingra, P.	H. Parekh, P. K. Manohar, C.
L. Sahu, A. K.	 Jha, T. G. N.	 Nayar, A. K. Panda, S. K.
Gambhir, S. Gambhir, Ashok Mahajan, Sunita Kriplani, C. V.
Subba Rao, G. D. Gupta, Hemant Sharma, Indu	Malhotra and
Jayshre for the appearing parties. R. K. Garg, S. N. Singh	and K.	M. K. Nair for	 the
intervener. The following Judgments were delivered : All the government servants in the above Appeal	 and
Writ Petitions	have been either dismissed or removed from
service without	 holding any inquiry. They have not	been
informed of the charges against them	nor been given	 any
opportunity of being 165 heard in respect of those charges. The penalty of dismissal
or removal, as the case may be, has been imposed upon them
under one or the other of the three clauses of the second
proviso to Article 311(2) or under similar provision in
rules made under the proviso to Article 309 or in rules made
under an Act referable to Article 309 , for instance, Rule 19
of the	Central Civil Services Classification,	 Control and
Appeal)	 Rules,	 1965,	Rule 14 of the Railway Servants
(Discipline and	 Appeal) Rule 1968, and Rule	 37 of	 the
Central Industrial Security Force Rules, 1969, or under such
a rule read with one of the clauses of the second proviso to Article 311(2). Aggrieved by these orders	 of dismissal and removal,
several	 government servants filed writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution in different High Courts.
Some of	 these writ petitions were allowed, mainly on the
basis of a decision of a three-Judge Bench of this Court in
Divisional Personnel Officer, Southern	 Railway & Anr. v.
T.R. Challappan, [1976] 1 S.C.R. 783, given on September 15,
1975, while a few were dismissed. Appeals by Special Leave
against those judgments were filed in this Court. In three
other similar appeals, namely, Civil Appeals Nos. 1088, 1089
and 1120 of 1975, another three-Judge	 Bench of this Court
felt that there was a conflict between Challappan's case and
an earlier decision of	 another three-Judge Bench of	this
Court, namely, M. Gopala Krishan Naidu v. State of Madhya
Pradesh , [1968]	 1 S.C.R. 355, and directed on November 18,
1976, that the papers	in those three	 appeals be placed
before the learned Chief Justice to enable him to refer
those appeals to a larger Bench. The said appeals were thus
referred to the Constitution Bench. Because of the	said
order all the above Appeals and Writ Petitions were also
placed before this Constitution Bench. During the course of
the hearing of all these matters by this Constitution Bench,
the said Civil Appeals	 Nos. 1088, 1089 and 1120 of	1975
were, however,	got dismissed on March	 29, 1984, but	 the
above Appeals and Writ	 Petitions were	 fully heard and are
being disposed of by this Judgment. Civil Servants
 Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes in his book "The Common
Law", consisting of lectures delivered by him while teaching
law at	Harvard and published just one year before he was
appointed in 1882 an Associate Justice of the Massachusetts
Supreme Judicial Court, said : It will	 not, therefore, be out of place to	 begin	this
Judgment with a brief historical sketch of the civil service
in India as also of the law applicable to civil servants and
the changes which have taken place in it from time to time. Civil servants, that is,	persons who are members of a
civil service of the Union of India or an all-India service
or a civil service of a State or who hold a civil post under
the Union or a State, occupy in law a special position. The
ordinary law of master	 and servant does not apply to them.
Under that law, whether the contract	of service is for a
fixed period or not. If it contains a provision for	 its
termination by	notice, it can be so terminated. If there is
no provision for giving a notice and the contract is not for
a fixed	 period, the law implies an obligation to give a
reasonable notice. Where no notice in the first case or no
reasonable notice in the second case is given, the contract
is wrongfully terminated and such wrongful termination will
given rise to a claim for damages. This is subject to what
may otherwise be provided in industrial and	labour	laws
where such laws are applicable. The	 position of civil
servants both in England and in India is, however, vastly
different. The Civil Service in England
 Our civil	 services are	modelled upon	the British
pattern	 though	 in some respects there are important
differences between the two.	 In England, except where
otherwise provided by	statute, all public officers	 and
servants of the Crown hold	their appointments at	 the
pleasure of the Crown or durante bene placito ("during good
pleasure" or "during the pleasure of	the appoint or") as
opposed to an office held dum bene se gesserit ("during good
conduct"), also	 called quadiu se bene gesserit ("as long as
he shall behave himself well"). When a person holds office
during the pleasure of	 the Crown, his appointment can be
terminated at any time without assigning cause. The exercise
of pleasure by the Crown can,	 however, be restricted by
legislation enacted by Parliament because in	 the United
Kingdom Parliament is sovereign and has the right to make or
unmake any law whatever 167 and all	 that a	 court of law can do with an Act passed by
Parliament is to interpret its meaning but not to set it
aside or declare it void Blackstone in his Commentaries has
thus described	 the unlimited legislative authority of
Parliament(1 Bl., Comm. pp. 160,161): Jean Louis De Lolme, the	 eighteenth-century Swiss
constitutionalist in his "Constitution	 de 1	'Angleterre" So	 far as the	 pleasure doctrine in	 England is
concerned, Lord Diplock in Chelliah Kodeeswaran v. Attorney-
General of Ceylon, L.R. [1970] A.C. 1111, 1118, P.C., has
succinctly stated its position in English law as follows: In practice, however, a dismissal would take place only as
the result of well-established disciplinary processes. In recent	years, though the Crown still retains	 the
right to dismiss at pleasure, the legal position of civil
servants has radically changed	 as a result of legislation,
and legally binding collective	 agreements can	 be entered
into between the Crown	 and representative of its staff and
those representatives can sue	for breach of any conditions
of service covered by	these agreement. Further, a civil
servant can bring an action for unfair dismissal or sue on
his conditions	of service. But just as an ordinary employee
cannot insist on continuing in employment, so also a civil
servant cannot	insist	on continuing	in employment.	 The
remedy in both cases is to recover damages for wrongful
dismissal. (See	 Halsbury's Laws of England, Fourth Edition,
Volume 8, Paras 1106 and 1303). The Pre-Constitution Civil Services in India
 It is unnecessary to go back more than two centuries to
trace the origin and development of the Civil Service in
India. The East India	Company sent out to India its	 own
servants and so did the Crown, and from the earliest times,
under the various Charters given to the East India Company,
the Crown could at its pleasure remove any person holding
office, whether	 civil or military, under the	 East India
Company. The Court of	Directors of the East India Company
had also the power to remove or dismiss any of its officers
or servants not appointed by the Crown. Section 35 of the
Act of	1793 (33 Geo. III. c.52) made it lawful to and for a
King's Majesty,	 his heirs and successors, by any writing or
instrument under his or their sign manual, countersigned by
the President of the Board of Commissioners for the affairs
of 169 India, to remove or recall any person holding any office,
employment or commission, civil or military, under the East
India Company;	while section 36 of that Act provided that
nothing contained in that Act should extend, or be construed
to extend, to preclude	 or take away the power of the Court
of Directors of the East India Company from	removing or
recalling any of its officers or servants and that the Court
of Directors shall and may at all times have full liberty to
remove, recall	or dismiss any of such officers or servants
at their will and pleasure in the like manner as if that Act
had not been passed. Similar provisions were made in the Act
of 1833	 (3 & 4 will IV, c.85) by sections 74 and 75 of that
Act. Section 74 made it lawful "for His Majesty by	 any
Writing	 under	 His Sign Manual, countersigned by	 the
President of the said	Board of Commissioners, to remove or
dismiss	 any person holding	any office, employment or
commission, civil or military,	 under the said Company in
India, and to vacate any Appointment	or Commission of any
person	to any	 such office or employment."	 Section 75
provided that nothing contained in that Act would take away
the power of the Court of Directors to remove or dismiss any
of the	officers or servants of the Company "but that the
said Court shall and may at all Times have full Liberty to
remove or dismiss any of such officers or servants at their
will and pleasure." By the end of the nineteenth century a well-organized
civil service had developed in India,	 the control over it
being vested in the executive, and the members of the "civil
service of the Crown in India" were governed in the matter
of their appointments as also the regular of the conditions
of their service, such as,	 classification	 methods of
recruitment, pay and allowances, and discipline and conduct,
by rules made by the executive. The Government of India Act, 1858 (21 & 22 Vict.,
c.106), which vested in the British Crown the territories
under the government	of East India" Company, repeated
certain sections of the Government of India Act, 1853 (16 &
17 Vict., c.95), in so far as they applied to or provided
for the	 admission or appointment of persons to the Civil
Service of the East India Company and conferred upon the
Secretary of State in Council the power to make regulations
for the	 admission of candidates to the Civil	 Service of
India as also	with respect to other matters connected
therewith. Three years later the Indian Civil Service so
envisaged received statutory recognition by the enactment of
the Indian Civil Service Act, 1861 (24 & 25 Vict., c.54). The above Acts were repealed by the Government of India
Act of	1915 (5 & 6 Geo. V, c.61). Part VIII of the 1915 Act
conferred upon	the Secretary of State in Council, with the
aid and advice of the Civil Service Commissioners, the power
to make rules for the Indian Civil Service examination. None of	the above nor the Government of India
(Amendment) Act, 1916	(6 & 7 Geo.	V. c.37) made	 any
reference to the tenure of members of the civil service in
India. This was for the first time done by the Government of
India Act, 1919 (9 & 10 Geo. v, c.101), which introduced
several amendments in the 1915 Act including the insertion
of Part VIIA consisting of section 96 B to 96 E.
 Section 96 B provided as follows:- If any such person appointed by the Secretary of
	 State in Council thinks himself wronged by an
	 order of an official	 superior in a governor's
	 province, and	 on due	 application made to	that
	 superior does	 not receive the redress to which he
	 may consider	himself entitled, he may, without
	 prejudice to	any other right of redress, complain
	 to the governor of the province in order to obtain
	 justice, and	the governor is hereby	 directed to
	 examine such	complaint and require such action to
	 be taken thereon as	may appear to him to be just
	 and equitable. (2) The Secretary of State,	 in Council may make
	 rules for regulating the classification of	 the
	 civil services in India, the methods of their
	 recruitment, 171 their conditions of services, pay and allowances,
	 and discipline and conduct.	Such rules may, to
	 such extent and in respect of such matters as may
	 be prescribed, delegate the power of making rules
	 to the Governor-General in Council or to local
	 governments, or authorise the Indian legislature
	 or local legislatures to make laws regulating the
	 public services: Nothing in this section or in any rule thereunder
	 shall prejudice the rights to which	 any person
	 may,	or may	 have,	become	entitled under	 the
	 provisions in	 relation to pensions contained in
	 the East India Annuity Funds Act, 1874. (4) For the	 removal of doubts it is hereby
	 declared that	 all rules or other provisions in
	 operation at	the time of the passing of	 the
	 Government of India Act, 1919, whether made by the
	 Secretary of	State in Council or by any other
	 authority, relating to the civil service of the
	 Crown in India, were duly made in accordance with
	 the powers in that behalf, and are confirmed, but
	 any such rules or provisions may	be revoked,
	 varied or added to by rules	 or laws made under
	 this section." The Fundamental	 Rules, the Civil Service (Classification,
Control and Appeal) Rules of 1930 and the Civil Service
(Governors Provinces Classification) Rules are instances of
rules made under authority conferred by section 96B. Section
96C provided for the establishment of a Public Service
Commission. Sub-section	 (1) of	 section 96D provided for an
Auditor-General to be appointed by the Secretary of State in
Council	 who was to hold office during "His Majesty's
pleasure", and	conferred upon	the Secretary of State in
Council the power to make rules providing for the Auditor-
General's pay,	powers, duties and conditions of employment.
Sub-section (2) of section 96D provided that, subject to any
rules made by the Secretary of State in Council, no officer
could be added to or withdrawn from the public service and
the emoluments	of no post could be varied except after
consultation with such finance authority as might be
designated in the rules being an authority of the Province
or of the Government of India, according as the post was or
was not	 under the control of	a local Government. Under
section 96E rules under Part VIIA could not be made except
with the concurrence of the majority of votes at a meeting
of the Council of India. Thus, after the 1919 Act, the civil services of India
continued to be under the control of the Secretary of State
in Council who was to regulate by rules the classification
of the	civil services,	 the methods of recruitment,	 the
conditions of services, pay and allowances, and discipline
and conduct. Such rules could also provide for delegation of
the rule-making	 power to the Governor-General in Council or
the local Governments or authorize the Indian Legislature or
Local Legislatures to	 make laws regulating	 the public
services but only to the extent and in respect of matters as
were prescribed by the rules. Thus, even the power of making
rules as also the authority to the Indian Legislature and
the Local Legislatures to enact Acts regulating the public
services was derived by delegation of	 power made by	 the
Secretary of State in Council. What is really material for the purposes of the present
Appeals and Writ Petitions is	 that section	96B of	 the
Government of India Act, 1919, for the first time expressly
stated that every person in the civil service of the Crown
in India held office "during His Majesty's pleasure." This
was, however, made subject to three safeguards, namely-
	 (1) a civil servant could not be dismissed by any
	 authority subordinate	 to that by which he	 was
	 appointed; (2) the Secretary of State	in Council had	 the
	 power, unless	 he provided to the contrary in the
	 rules, to reinstate any person in service who had
	 been dismissed; and
	 (3) if a civil servant appointed by the Secretary
	 of State in Council thought himself wronged by an
	 order of an official	 superior in a Governor's
	 Province and	on due	 application made to	that
	 superior did	not receive the redress to which he
	 considered himself entitled,	 he could, without
	 prejudice to	any other right of redress, complain
	 to the Governor of the Province in order to obtain
	 justice and the Governor had to examine	such
	 complaint and	 require such action to be taken
	 thereon as might appear to him to be just	 and
	 equitable. The position which prevailed with respect to the civil
services in India during the intervening period between the
Government of India Act, 1919, and the Government of India
Act, 1935 (25 & 26 Geo. V, c.42) was that the top echelons
of the	important services, especially those working under
the provincial	Governments, consisted of what were known as
the "all India services," which governed a wide variety of
departments. There were, in the first	 place,	 the Indian
Civil Service and the Indian Police Service, which provided
the framework of the administrative machinery. In addition,
there were the Indian Forest Service, the Indian Educational
Service, the Indian Agricultural Service, the Indian Service
of Engineers (consisting of an Irrigation Branch and a Roads
and Buildings Branch), the Indian Veterinary	Service, the
Indian Forest Engineering Service and the Indian Medical
Service (Civil). The initial appointments and conditions of
service for all these services were made by the Secretary of
State and each officer executed a	 covenant with	 the
Secretary of State containing	the terms under which he was
to serve. In addition	to the all-India services there were
the central services under the Government of India and the
Provincial services in the	Provinces; and	 lastly	 the
subordinate services.	 (See	Indian	 Statutory (Simon)
Commission Report(1930), Vol.I, para 290 ff.). During the
years following	 the 1919 Act it was decided	that, as a
consequence of	the decision to effect progressive transfer
of power to Governments in India, the number of all-India
services under	the direct control of the Secretary of State
should be progressively reduced especially in those fields
of administration that were	transferred to	 ministerial
control. It was now to 174 be left	 to the	 Provincial Governments to reorganize in
gradual stages	the higher cadres of their services in the
transferred subjects, and recruitment	and control of	 the
Secretary of State in Council were accordingly discontinued.
This policy resulted by the early thirties in the Indian
Civil Service, the Indian Police Service, the Ecclesiastical
Service and the civil	branch of the Indian Medical Service
being retained	by the Secretary of State and the rest being
converted into	 Provincial services,	 safeguards being
provided to secure the	 rights and privileges guaranteed to
officers recruited earlier to	the all-India services. (See
Report	 of the Joint Select Committee	 on Indian
Constitutional Reform, (1934), para 277.)
 The above position received legislative recognition and
sanction under	the Government	of India Act, 1935 (25 & 26
Geo. v,	 c.42), often cited with the year and chapter of the
Act in	pursuance of which it	was reprinted,	namely,	 the
Government of India (Reprinting) Act, 1935 (26 Geo. V & 1
Edw, VIII, c.1). Part	X of the 1935	Act dealt with	 the
services of the Crown	in India. Chapter II of Part X made
provisions with	 respect of the civil services. Section 240 provided for the tenure of office of persons	 employed in
civil capacities in India and conferred upon them certain
statutory safeguards as regards dismissal or	reduction in
rank. Section	 241 dealt with their recruitment	 and
conditions of service. Under that section power to	make
appointments was vested in respect of	 central services in
the Governor-General and in	respect	 of the Provincial
services in the respective Governors. In the same manner the
power to regulate conditions of service of the members of
these services	was conferred upon the Governor- General or
the Governor, as the case may	 be. The Governor-General as
also the Governor could authorize such person as he might
direct to make appointments and rules	 with respect to the
conditions of service. Provision was also made for enactment
of Acts by appropriate Legislatures to regulate	 the
conditions of service of persons in the civil services. It
is unnecessary	to look into the details of these provisions
as the	federal structure envisaged by	 the 1935 Act never
came into existence as it was optional for the Indian States
to join	 the proposed Federation and they did not give their
consent thereto. Chapter III of Part	X provided for	 the
setting up of a Federal Public Service Commission and a
Public Service Commission for each province. A provision was
also made for two or more Provinces to agree to have a joint
Public	Service	 Commission or for	the Public Service
Commission of one of these Provinces to serve the needs of
the other provinces. In	 the context	of the	 present Appeals and	Writ
Petitions, it is section 240 of the	1935 Act which is
relevant. Section 240 provided as follows: While under the 1935 Act, as under the 1919 Act, every
person who was a member of the civil service of the Crown in
India or held any civil post under the Crown in India held
office "during	His Majesty's pleasure", greater safeguards
were provided for him under the 1935 Act than under the 1919
Act. Those safeguards were: The safeguard as regards a reasonable opportunity of showing
cause provided	for in section 240(3) did not exist in the
1919 Act. The proviso	to sub-section	(3) of section 240 ,
however, took away this safeguard in the two cases set out
in clauses (a) and (b) of the said proviso. These two cases
were: The Civil Services under the Constitution
 Provisions with respect to services under the Union and
the states are made in Part XIV of the Constitution of
India. This Part consists of two Chapters, Chapter I delaing
with services and Chapter II dealing	with Public Service
Commission for	the Union and the State. Article 308 , as
originally enacted, defined 177 the expression	"State" occurring in Part XIV as meaning,
unless the context otherwise required, "a State specified in
Part A or B of the First Schedule." This Article was amended
by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 , which was
passed in order to implement the scheme for reorganization
of States. The amended Article 308 provides, "In this Part,
unless	the context otherwise requires, the expression
'State' does not include the State of Jammu and Kashmir." Article 309 provides for recruitment	 and conditions of
service of persons serving the Union or a State, Article 310 for the	 tenure of office of such persons, and Article 311 for the	 mode of dismissal removal or reduction in rank of
persons employed in civil capacities under the Union or a
State. Article	312 deals with all-India services and inter
alia provides that where the Council of State has declared
by resolution supported by not less than two-thirds of the
members present and voting that it is necessary or expedient
in the	national interest so to do, Parliament might by law
provide for the creation of one or more all-India services
common to the Union and the States and subject to the other
provisions of	 Chapter I regulate the recruitment	 and
conditions of service of persons appointed to any	such
service; and	it further provides	 that	the Indian
Administrative Service	and the	 Indian Police Service shall
be deemed to be services created by Parliament under Article 312. Article 313 provides for the continuance in force, so
far as	consistent with	 the provisions of the Constitution,
of all the laws in force immediately before the commencement
of the	Constitution and applicable to any public service or
any post which continued to exist after the commencement of
the Constitution as an	 all-India service or as service or
post under the Union or a State until other provision was
made in	 this behalf under the	 Constitution. Under clause
(10) of Article 366 the expression "existing law" means "any
law, Ordinance, order, bye-law, rule or regulation passed or
made before the commencement of this	Constitution by	 any
Legislature, authority or person having power to make such a
law, Ordinance,	 order, bye-law, rule or regulation. Thus,
all Acts, rules and regulations applicable to different
services immediately	before	the commencement of	 the
Constitution continue to apply to such services in so far as
they were consistent with the provisions of the Constitution
until amended, varied, revoked or replaced by Acts, rules or
regulations made in accordance	 with the provisions of the
Constitution. From what	has been stated above	it will be seen that
the provisions	 with respect	to civil services in	 the Government of India Act, 1935 , were taken as the basis for
Chapter I of Part XIV of the Constitution. Articles 309,310 and 311
 It is necessary for the purpose	of these Appeals and
Writ Petitions	to set	out in	extenso	 the provisions of Articles 309 , 310 and 311. Articles 309 and 310 were amended by the Constitution
(Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 ,	 to omit from these Articles
the reference to the Rajpramukh. Articles 309 and 310 , as so
amended, read as follows: (1) Except	as expressly	provided by	this
	 Constitution, every person who is a	 member of a
	 defence service or of a civil service of the Union
	 or of	 an all-India service	or holds any	post
	 connected with defence or any civil post under the
	 Union holds office during the pleasure of	 the
	 President, and every person	who is a member of a
	 civil service	 of a State or holds any civil post
	 under a state holds office during the pleasure of
	 the Governor of the State. (2) Notwithstanding that a person holding a civil
	 post under the Union	 or a	State holds office
	 during the pleasure of the President or, as the
	 case may be, of the Governor of the State	 any
	 contract under which a person, not being a member
	 of a defence service or of an all-India service or
	 of a	civil service of the Union or	 a State, is
	 appointed under this Constitution to hold such a
	 post may, if the President or the Governor, as the
	 case may be, deems it necessary in order to secure
	 the services	 of a person having special
	 qualifications, provide for the payment to him of
	 compensation,	 if before the expiration of an
	 agreed period that post is abolished or he is, for
	 reasons not connected with any misconduct on his
	 part, required to vacate that post." Article 311 as originally enacted	was in	 the
	 following terms: The words "or Rajpramukh" in clause (c) of the proviso to Article 311(2) were omitted by the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956 . By the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 .
Clauses (2) and (3) of Article 311 were substituted by the
following clauses: The Constitution (Forty-second Amendment)	 Act, 1976 ,
made certain amendments in the substituted clause (2) of Article 311 with effect from January 3, 1977. Article 311 as
so amended reads as follows : From the original and	amended Article 311 set out above it
will be noticed that of the original Article 311 only clause
(1) remains unaltered, while both the	 other clauses	have
become	the subject of Constitutional amendments.	 No
submission was	founded by either party on the substitution
of the	 present clause (3)	 for the original by	 the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 , for	 the
obvious reason that such substitution was made only in order
to bring clause (3) in conformity with clause (2) as
substituted by the said Amendment Act. A comparison of Article 311 of the Constitution with section 240 of the Government of India Act, 1935, shows that
the safeguards provided to civil servants by Article 311 are
very much the same as those under section 240 with	this
difference that	 while Article	311 also affords safeguards
against removal	 from service section 240 did not. Further,
though the proviso to section 240(3) is reproduced in what
originally was	the only proviso and	is now	 the second
proviso to Article 311	 (2) , an additional clause, namely,
clause (c) has been added thereto. A provision similar to
clause	(3) of Article 311 was also absent from	 the Government of India Act, 1935 . Thus, while on the one hand Article	 311 enlarges	the protection	 afforded to civil
servants, on the other	 hand it increases by one the number
of cases in which that protection can be withdrawn. With the above historical	 background and	 bearing in
mind the relevant provisions of the Constitution, it will be
now convenient	to turn	 to the	 submissions made at the Bar
with respect to 183 the pleasure doctrine and the second	proviso	 to Article
311(2) and test the correctness of these submissions. The Second Proviso - Rival Submissions
 The arguments advanced on	 behalf	 of the government
servants on the pleasure doctrine and the second proviso to Article 311 (2) may be sketched in broad outlined as under : Principles of natural justice and the audi alteram
	 partem rule are part of Article 14 and, therefore,
	 a show cause notice asking for the explanation of
	 the government servant with respect to the charges
	 against him as also	a notice to show cause with
	 respect to the proposed penalty are required to be
	 given by Article 14 and the	 not giving of such
	 notices or either of	 them renders the order of
	 dismissal, removal or reduction in rank invalid.
 The submissions on behalf of the Union of India can be
thus summarized : Article 311(2) embodies the principles of natural
	 justice including the audi alteram partem rule. It
	 thus	expressly states what	 is required under Article 14 as a result of	 the interpretation
	 placed upon it by recent decisions of this Court.
	 Once the application of clause(2) is expressly
	 excluded by the Constitution 185 itself, there can	be no	question of making
	 applicable what has been so excluded by seeking
	 recourse to Article 14. (5) Consideration of sympathy for the government
	 servants who	 may be dismissed or	 removed or
	 reduced in rank are irrelevant to the construction
	 of the second proviso. The doctrine of tenure at
	 pleasure in Article 310 and the safeguards given
	 to a	government servant under clauses (1) and (2)
	 of Article 311 as also the	 withdrawal of	 the
	 safeguard under clause (2) by the second proviso
	 are all enacted in	public	interest and where
	 public interest conflicts with private interest,
	 the latter must yield to the former. The Pleasure Doctrine
 The concept of civil service is	not now or of recent
origin. Governments - whether	monarchial, dictatorial or
republican - have to function; and for carrying on	 the
administration and the varied functions of the government a
large number of persons are required	and have always been
required, whether they are constituted in the form of a
civil service or not. Every kingdom and country of the world
throughout history had a group of persons who helped the
ruler to administer the land, whether	 according to modern
notions we may call that group a civil service or	not,
because it is not possible for one man by himself to rule
and govern the land and look	after and supervise all the
details of administration. As it was throughout history, so
it has been in England and in India. In England, all public officers and servants of	 the
Crown hold their appointments	at the pleasure of the Crown
and their services can be terminated at will without
assigning any	 cause.	 By the expression "the pleasure
doctrine" is conveyed this right of the Crown. This right
is, however, subject to what may be provided otherwise by
legislation passed by	Parliament because in	 the United
Kingdom, Parliament has legislative sovereignty. The Foundations of modern European civil services were
laid in	 Prussia in the late	seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries and by Napoleon's development of highly organized
hierarchy (a	model copied	by many countries in	 the
nineteenth century); and they	 are the basis of modern
European civil	services. In England civil servants	were
originally the monarch's personal servants and 186 members of the King's household. Clive's creation from 1765
of a civil service to govern	such parts of India as were
under the dominion of the East India Company and Macaulay's
report on recruitment to the Indian Civil Service provided
the inspiration	 for the report of 1854 on the organization
of the	permanent civil service in Britain which recommended
recruitment by	open competitive examination, the selection
of higher civil servants on the	 basis	of general
intellectual attainment, and the establishment of a Civil
Service Commission to ensure proper recruitment. In the United Kingdom, until about the middle of
November 1981,	the Civil Service Department, which was set
up in 1968 with the Prime Minister, as Minister for	 the
Civil Service,	as its Head, looked after the management and
personnel functions in connection with the Civil Service
which were until then	being looked after by the Treasury.
These functions included the organization and conduct of the
Civil Service and the	remuneration, conditions of service,
expenses and allowances of persons serving in it; mode of
recruitment of	persons to the Civil Service; the pay and
allowances of,	and the	 charges payable by, members of the
armed forces; with certain exceptions, superannuation	 and
injury payments, compensation for loss of employment or loss
or diminution of emoluments or pension rights applicable to
civil servants	and others in	the public sector and to
members of the armed forces; the exercise by other persons
and bodies of powers to determine, subject to the minister's
sanction, the pay or conditions of service of members of
public bodies (excluding judicial bodies), or the numbers,
pay or	conditions of service of staff employed by	such
bodies or by the holders of certain non-judicial offices;
and the	 appointment or	 employment and the remuneration,
conditions of service, personal expenses or allowances of
judges and judicial staff (See Halsbury's Laws of England,
Fourth Edition, Volume 8, para 1162). The Permanent Secretary to the Civil Service Department
was the	 Head of the Home Civil Service and gave advice to
the Prime Minister as to civil service appointments,
decorations, etc. The Civil	 Service Departments	 was
abolished on November 12, 1981, and its functions, instead
of reverting to the Treasury,	 were divided	between	 the
Treasury and the newly	 created Management and Personnel
Office. In	 India,	 the	pleasure doctrine has received
constitutional sanction	 by being enacted in Article 310(1). Unlike in the United Kingdom in India it is not subject to
any law made by Parliament 187 but is	subject only to what is expressly provided by the
Constitution. The pleasure doctrine relates to the tenure of a
government servant. "Tenure" means "manner, conditions or
term of	 holding something" according to Webster's Third New
International Dictionary, and	"terms	of holding; title;
authority" according to the Oxford English Dictionary. It,
therefore, means the period for which an incumbent of office
holds it. It is for this reason that the statement of law
relating to the pleasure doctrine in	England is given in
Halsbury's Laws	 of England, Fourth Edition, Volume 8, Para
1106, under the heading "Tenure of office". The first	 time	that a statute relating to	 the
government of India provided that civil servants hold office
during His Majesty's pleasure	was the Government of India
Act of 1919 in section 96B of that Act. The marginal note to
section 96B did not, however, refer to the tenure of civil
servants but stated "The Civil Services of India". This was
because section	 96B in	 addition to dealing with the tenure
of civil servants also dealt with matters relating to their
recruitment, conditions of service,	 pay,	 allowances,
pensions, etc.	The marginal note to section	240 of	 the
Government of India Act, 1935, however, was	 "Tenure of
office of persons employed in civil capacities in India".
The marginal note to Article 310 of the Constitution also
refers to "tenure" and	 states "Tenure of office or persons
serving the Union or a State". Thus, it is the tenure of
government servants which Article 310(1) makes subject to
the pleasure of the President or the Governor of a State,
except as expressly provided by the Constitution. While it was vehemently contended on behalf of	 the
government servants that the pleasure doctrine is a relic of
the feudal age - a part of the special prerogative of the
Crown -	 which was imposed upon India by an Imperial power
and thus is an anachronism in this democratic, socialist age
and must, therefore,	be confined within the narrowest
limits, it was submitted on behalf of the Union of India
that this doctrine was a matter of public policy, and it was
in public interest and	 for public good that	the right to
dismiss at pleasure a	 government servant who has	made
himself unfit to continue in	office,	 albeit	 subject to
certain safeguards, should exist and be exercisable in the
Constitutional sense by the Crown in	England and by	 the
President or the Governor of a State in India. It is not
possible to accept the	 arguments advanced on behalf of the
government servants for 188 all the authoritative judicial dicta are to the contrary. As
pointed out by Lord Hobhouse in Shenton v. Smith, L.R.[1895]
A.C. 229 J.C., the pleasure doctrine	is founded upon the
principle that	the difficulty	 which	would otherwise be
experienced in	dismissing those whose continuance in office
is detrimental	to the	State would be such as seriously to
impede the working of	the public service. In	 Dunn v. The
Queen, L.R. [1896] Q.B.D. 116; s.c. [1895-96] 73 L.T.R. 695
and sub nomine Dunn v. Regem in [1895-99] All E.R. Rep. 907,
the Court of Appeal in England held that it was an implied
term of	 every contract	 of service that servants of	 the
Crown, civil as well as military, except in	special case
where it is otherwise	provided by law, hold their offices
only during the pleasure of the Crown. In that case Lord
Herschell observed (pages 119-120) : (Emphasis supplied)
 Ministers frame policies and legislatures enact	laws
and lay	 down the mode in which such	policies are to be
carried out and the object of the legislation achieved. In
many cases, in a Welfare State such as ours, such policies
and statutes are intended to	 bring	about socioeconomic
reforms	 and the uplift of the poor and disadvantaged
classes. From the nature of things the task of efficiently
and effectively	 implementing these policies and enactments,
however, rests	with the civil	 services. The	 public	 is,
therefore ; vitally	interested in	the efficiency	 and
integrity of such services. Government servants are after
all paid from	 the public exchequer	 to which everyone
contributes either by way of direct or indirect taxes. Those
who are	 paid by the public and are charged with public and
administration for public good	 must, therefore, in their
turn bring to the discharge of their duties	a sense of
responsibility. The efficiency of public administration does
not depend only upon the top echelons of these services. It
depends as much upon all the other members of such services,
even on	 those in the most subordinate posts. For instance,
railways do not run because of the members of the Railway
Board or the General Managers of different railways or the
heads	of different	 departments	 of the railway
administration. They run also	because	 of engine-drivers,
fireman, signalmen, booking clerks and those holding hundred
other similar posts. Similarly, it is not the administrative
heads who alone can set to the proper functioning of the
post and telegraphs	service. For	a service to	 run
efficiently there must, therefore, be a collective sense of
responsibility. But for a government servant	to discharge
his duties faithfully and conscientiously, he	 must have a
feeling of security of	 tenure. Under our Constitution this
is provided for by the Acts and rules made under Article 309 as also	 by the	 safeguards in respect of the punishments of
dismissal, removal or reduction in rank provided in clauses
(1) and	 (2) of Article 311. It is, however, as much in
public interest and for public good that government servants
who are	 inefficient, dishonest	 or corrupt or have become a
security risk 191 should not continue in	 service and that the protection
afforded to them by the Acts	and rules made under Article
309 and	 by Article 311 be not abused by them to	 the
detriment of public interest	 and public good. When a
situation as envisaged in one of the three clauses of the
second proviso	to clause (2) of Article 311 arises and the
relevant clause	 is properly applied and the	disciplinary
inquiry dispensed with, the concerned	 government servant
cannot be heard to complain that he is deprived of	 his
livelihood. The	 livelihood of	an individual is a matter of
great concern to him and his family but his livelihood is a
matter of his private interest and where such livelihood is
provided by the public exchequer and the taking away of such
livelihood is in the public interest	and for public good,
the former must yield	to the	latter.	 These	consequences
follow not because the pleasure doctrine is a special
prerogative of the British Crown which has been inherited by
India and transposed into our Constitution adapted to suit
the Constitutional set up of our Republic but because public
policy requires, public interest needs and	public	good
demands that there should be such a doctrine. It is thus clear that the pleasure doctrine embodied in Article 310 (1) , the protection afforded to civil servants
by clauses (1) and (2) of Article 311 and the withdrawal of
the protection under clause (2) of Article 311 by the second
proviso thereto	 are all provided in the Constitution on the
ground of public policy and in the public interest and are
for public good. The Scope of the Pleasure Doctrine. While under section 96B(1) of the Government of India
Act of	1919 the holding of office in the civil service of
the Crown in	India during His Majesty's pleasure	 was
"Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made
thereunder", under section 240(1) of the Government of India
Act, 1935, the holding	 of such office during His Majesty's
pleasure was "Except as expressly provided by this Act".
Similarly, the	pleasure doctrine as	enacted	 in Article
310(1) is not an absolute one and is not untrammeled or free
of all	fetters, but operates "Except as expressly provided
by this	 Constitution." The constitutional restrictions on
the exercise of pleasure under Article 310(1) other	than
those contained	 in Article 311 will be considered later but
what is	 immediately relevant	is the	 group	of Articles
consisting of Articles 309 ,	310 and 311. These three
Articles are interlinked and form an integrated whole. There
is an organic and thematic 192 unity running through them and it is now necessary to see
the interplay of these three Articles. These Articles occur in Chapter I of Part XIV of the
Constitution. Part XIV is entitled "Services under the Union
and the States" and	 Chapter I thereof	is entitled
"Services". While Article 309 deals with the recruitment and
conditions of service of persons appointed to the public
services and posts in	connection with	 the affairs of the
Union or a State, Article 310 deals with the tenure of
office or members of the defence services and of civil
services of the Union	 and the States and Article	 311 provides certain safeguards to	 persons employed in civil
capacities under the Union or a State but not to members of
the defence services. The first thing which is required to
be noticed about Article 309 is that it itself makes no
provision for	recruitment or	 conditions of	 service of
government servants but confers power upon the appropriate
Legislature to	make laws and upon the President and	 the
Governor of a State to make rules in respect of these
matters. The passing of these Acts and the framing of these
rules are, however, made "Subject to the provisions of this
Constitution." This phrase which preceeds and qualifies the
power conferred	 by Article 309 is significantly different
from the qualifying phrase in Article 310(1) which is
"Except as expressly provided by this Constitution". With reference to the words "conditions	of service" In The	State of Bihar v. Abdul Majid , [1954] S.C.R. 786, a
Constitution Bench of	this Court pointed out that	 the
attention of the Judicial Committee was not drawn to section
60 and	the other relevant provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure , 1908, and that the rule of English law that a
Crown servant cannot maintain	a suit against the Crown for
recovery of arrears of salary did not 195 prevail in India as it had been negatived by the provisions
of statutory law in India. It may be mentioned that in its
subsequent decision in Chellaih Kodeeswaran v. Attorney-
General of Ceylon in appeal from the	 Supreme Court	 for
Ceylon, the Judicial Committee	 held that Lord Blackburn's
reasoning in Mulvenna's case had not	been concurred in by
the other two members	of the	Scottish Court	of Session,
namely, Lord Sands and	 Lord Ashmore,	 and had not	been
subsequently treated in Scotland as correctly	 laying down
the law and that it was defective and the conclusion reached
by Lord	 Blackburn was	contrary to authority and was wrong.
It further pointed out that there was a current of authority
for a hundred years before 1926 (that being	the year in
which Mulvenna's case was decided) to	 the effect that the
arrears of salary of a civil	servant	 of the Crown, as
distinguished from a	 member	 of the armed services,
constituted a debt recoverable	 by a	petition of right.
According to	the Privy Council, as the relevant	 and
prestigious authorities	 to the	 contrary, did not appear to
have been cited before	 the Judicial Committee in Lall's
case, this part of the judgment is	that case must be
regarded as given per incuriam. As seen earlier, in India for the first time a fetter
was imposed upon the pleasure of the Crown to terminate the
service of any	 of its servant by section	96B of	 the
Government of India Act, 1919, but that was only	with
respect to the authority which could	dismiss him. In that
section	 the holding	of office "during His Majesty's
pleasure" was made subject to both the provisions of that
Act and	 the rules made thereunder. Under the Government of
India Act 1935, the reference to the rules to be made under
the Act	 was omitted and the tenure of office of a civil
servant was to be "during His Majesty's pleasure except as
expressly provided" by that Act. Article 310(1) adopts the
same phraseology as in section 240 of the 1935 Act. Under it
also the holding of an office is during the pleasure of the
President or the Governor "Except as expressly provided by
this Constitution". Therefore	the only fetter which is
placed on the exercise	 of such pleasure is	when it is
expressly so provided in the Constitution itself, that is,
when there is an express proviso in that behalf in	 the
Constitution. Express provisions in that behalf are to be
found in the case of certain Constitutional functionaries in
respect of whose tenure special provision is made in the
Constitution as, for instance,	 in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 with respect to Judges of the Supreme Court, Article 218 with respect to Judges of the	High Court, Article 148(1) with respect to the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India, Article 324(1) 196 with respect to the Chief Election Commissioner, and Article
324(5) with respect to the	Election Commissioners	 and
Regional Commissioners. Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 311 impose restrictions
upon the exercise by the President or the Governor of a
State of his pleasure	 under Article	 310(1). These	 are
express provisions with respect to termination of service by
dismissal or removal as also with respect to reduction in
rank of	 a civil servant and thus come within the ambit of
the expression	 "Except as expressly provided by	this
Constitution" qualifying Article 310(1). Article 311 is thus
an exception to Article 310 and was described in Parshottam
Lal Dhingra v. Union of India , [1958] S.C.R.	 820,829, as
operating as a proviso to Article 310(1) though set out in a
separate Article. Article 309 is, however, not such an
exception. It does not lay down any express provision which
would derogate	 from the amplitude of the	exercise of
pleasure under Article 310(1). It merely confers upon the
appropriate Legislature	 or executive the power to make laws
and frame rules but this power is made subject to	 the
provisions of the Constitution. Thus, Article 309 is subject
to Article 310(1) and any provision restricting the exercise
of the	pleasure of the President or Governor in an Act or
rule made or frame under Article 309 not being an express
provision of the Constitution, cannot fall	 within	 the
expression "Except as expressly	provided by	this
Constitution" occurring	 in Article 310(1) and	 would be in
conflict with Article	 310(1) and must be	held to be
unconstitutional. Clauses (1) and (2) of Article	 311 expressly restrict the manner in which a Government servant
can be	dismissed, removed or reduced in rank and unless an
Act made or rule framed under Article 309 also conforms to
these restrictions, it would be void. The restriction placed
by clauses (1) and (2) of Article 311 are two : (1) with
respect to the authority empowered to	 dismiss or remove a
government servant provided for in clause (1) of Article
311; and (2) with respect to the procedure dismissal,
removal	 or reduction	in rank of a	 government servant
provided for in clause(2). The second	 priviso to Article
311(2) , which is the central point of controversy in these
Appeals and Writ Petitions, lifts the restriction imposed by Article 311(2) in the	cases specified in the three clauses
of that proviso. None of these three Articles (namely, Articles 309,310
and 311) sets out the grounds	 for dismissal,	 removal or
reduction in rank of a government servant or for imposition
of any	other penalty upon him	 or states what those other
penalties are. These are matters which are left to be dealt with by Acts
and rules made under Article 309. There are two classes of
penalties in service jurisprudence, namely, minor penalties
and major penalties. Amongst minor penalties	are censure,
with holding of promotion and with holding of increments of
pay. Amongst major penalties are dismissal or removal from
service, compulsory retirement and reduction in rank. Minor
penalties do not affect the tenure of a government servant
but the	 penalty of dismissal or removal does because these
two penalties bring to	 an end	 the service of a government
servant. It is also now well	established that compulsory
retirement by	way of	 penalty amounts to removal	from
service. So this penalty also	 affects the tenure of a
government servant. Reduction in rank does not terminate the
employment of a government servant, and it would, therefore,
be difficult to say that it	 affects the tenure of a
government servant. It may however, be argued that it does
bring to an end the holding of office in a particular rank
and from that point of view	it affects the government
servant's tenure in the rank from which he is reduced. It is
unnecessary to	decide this point because Article 311(2) expressly gives protection as against the	 penalty of
reduction in rank also. Exercise of Pleasure
 A question	 which arises in this connection is whether
the pleasure of the President or the Governor under Article
310(1) is to be exercised by the President or the Governor
personally or it can be exercised by a delegate or	some
other authority	 empowered under the Constitution or by an
Act or	Rules made under Article 309. This question came up
for consideration before a Constitution Bench of this Court
in Babu	 Ram Upadhya's	case. The majority of the Court
(speaking through Subba Rao, J., as he then was) stated (at
page 701) the conclusions it had reached in	the form of
seven propositions. These propositions are : The question came to be reconsidered	by a larger Bench of
Seven Judges in Moti Ram Deka 's case. While referring to the
judgment of the majority in Babu Ram Upadhya 's case	 the
Court observed as follows (at pp.731-2) : All these propositions were reviewed by	 the
	 majority opinion of this Court in Moti Ram Deka's
	 case	(supra)	 and this Court restated	that
	 proposition No. 2 must be read along with	 the
	 subsequent propositions specified as propositions
	 No. 3,4,5 and 6. The ruling	 in Moti Ram Deka's
	 case	(supra)	 is that a	law can be framed
	 prescribing the procedure by which and the 201 authority by' whom	the said pleasure can be
	 exercised. The pleasure of the President or the
	 Governor to dismiss can therefore not only be
	 delegated but	 is also subject to Article 311. The
	 true position as laid down in Moti Ram Deka 's case
	 (supra) is that Articles 310 and 311 must no doubt
	 be read together but	 once the true scope	 and
	 effect of Article 311 is determined the scope of Article 310(1) must be limited in the sense that
	 in regard to cases falling under Article 311(2) the pleasure	mentioned in Article 310(2) must be
	 exercised in	accordance with	 the requirements of Article 311. The majority	view in Babu	Ram Upadhya's	case
	 (supra) is no longer	 good law after the decision
	 in Moti Ram Deka 's case (supra). The theory that
	 only the President or the Governor is personally
	 to exercise pleasure of dismissing or removing a
	 public servant is repelled by express words on Article 311 that no person who is a member of the
	 civil service	 or holds a civil post under	 the
	 Union or a State shall be dismissed or removed by
	 authority subordinate	 to that by which he	 was
	 appointed. The words 'dismissed or removed by an
	 authority subordinate	 to that by which he	 was
	 appointed' indicate	that the pleasure of	 the
	 President or	the Governor is exercised by	such
	 officers on whom the	 President or the Governor
	 confers or delegates power." (Emphasis supplied)
	 The Court then stated its conclusion as follows
	 (at page 836) : The position, therefore, is that the pleasure of the
President or the Governor is not required to be exercised by
either of 202 them personally, and	that is indeed obvious from	 the
language of Article 311. Under clause (1) of that Article a
government servant cannot be dismissed or removed by an
authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed. The
question of an authority equal or superior in rank to the
appointing authority cannot arise if the power to dismiss or
remove is to be exercised by the President or the Governor
personally. Clause (b) of the second proviso to Article 311 equally makes this clear when the power to dispense with an
inquiry is conferred by it upon the authority empowered to
dismiss, remove	 or reduce in rank a government servant in a
case where such authority is satisfied that for some reason,
to be recorded by that authority in writing,	 it is	 not
reasonably practicable	to hold	 such inquiry, because if it
was the	 personal satisfaction	 of the President or	 the
Governor, the question of the satisfaction of any authority
empowered to	dismiss	 or remove or	 reduce	 in rank a
government servant would not	arise.	Thus, though under Article 310(1) the tenure of a government servant is at the
pleasure of the President or the Governor, the exercise of
such pleasure can be either by the President or the Governor
acting with the aid and on the advice of the Council of
Ministers or by the authority specified in Acts made under Article 309 or in rules made under such Acts or made under
the proviso to Article 309; and in the case of clause (c) of
the second proviso to Article 311(2) ,	 the inquiry to be
dispensed with	not on	the personal satisfaction of	 the
President or the Governor but on his satisfaction arrived at
with the aid and on the advice of the Council of Ministers. The Second Proviso to Article 311(2) Clause (2) of Article 311 gives a constitutional
mandate to the	 principles of	 natural justice and	audi
alteram partem rule by providing that a person employed in a
civil capacity	under the Union or a State shall not be
dismissed or removed from service or reduced in rank until
after an inquiry in which he	has been informed of	 the
charges	 against him	and has been	given a reasonable
opportunity of	being heard in respect of those charges. To
this extent, the pleasure doctrine enacted in Article 310(1) is abridged because Article 311(2) is a express provision of
the Constitution. This safeguard provided for a government
servant by clause (2) of Article 311 is, however, taken away
when the second proviso to that clause becomes applicable.
The safeguard provided by clause(1) of Article 311 , however,
remains	 intact	 and continues to be available to	 the
government servant. The second 203 proviso to Article 311(2) becomes applicable	in the three
cases mentioned in clauses (a) to (c) of that proviso. These
cases are (a) where a person is dismissed or	 removed or
	 reduced in rank on the ground of conduct which has
	 led to his conviction on a criminal charge; or (b) where the authority empowered to dismiss or
	 remove a person or to reduce him	in rank is
	 satisfied that for some reason, to be recorded by
	 that authority in writing, it is not reasonably
	 practicable to hold such inquiry; and (c) where the President or the Governor, as the
	 case may be, is satisfied that in the interest of
	 the security	of the	State it is not expedient to
	 hold such inquiry. The Construction to be placed upon the second proviso
and the	 scope and effect of that proviso were much debated
at the	Bar. In	 Hira Lal Rattan Lal etc. v. State of U.P. &
Anr., [1973] 2 S.C.R. 502 this Court observed (at page 512)
; In Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras v. Madurai Mills
Co. Ltd. , [1973] 3 S.C.R. 662, this Court said (at page 669)
: The language of	 the second proviso is plan	 and
unambiguous. The key-words in	the second proviso are "this
clause	shall	not apply". By "this clause" is meant
clause(2). As clause(2) requires an inquiry	to be	held
against a government servant, the only meaning attributable
to these words is that this inquiry shall not be held. There
is no scope for any ambiguity in these words and there is no
reason to given them any meaning different from the plain
and ordinary meaning which they bear. The resultant effect
of these words is that when a situation envisaged in any of
the three clauses of the proviso arises and	that clause
becomes applicable, the safeguard provided to a government
servant by clause (2) is taken away. As pointed out earlier,
this provision	is as much in public interest and for public
good and a matter of public policy as the pleasure doctrine
and the	 safeguards with respect to	security of tenure
contained in clauses (1) and (2) of Article 311. Before, however, any clause of the second proviso can
come into play the condition laid down in it must be
satisfied. The	condition for the application	of each of
these clauses is different. In the case of clause (a) a
government servant must be guilty of conduct deserving the
penalty of dismissal, removal	or reduction in rank which
conduct has led to him being convicted on a criminal charge.
In the case of clause (b) the disciplinary authority must be
satisfied that	it is not reasonably practicable to hold an
inquiry. In the case of clause (c) the President or	 the
Governor of a State, as the case may be, must be satisfied
that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not
expedient to hold an inquiry. When these conditions can be
said to	 be fulfilled will be discussed later while dealing
separately with	 each of the three clauses. The paramount
thing, however,	 to bear in mind is that the second proviso
will apply only where the conduct of a government servant is
such as	 he deserves the punishment of dismissal, removal or
reduction in rank. If	the conduct is such as to deserve a
punishment different from those mentioned above, the second
proviso cannot come into play at all, 205 because Article	 311 (2) is itself confined only to these
three penalties. Therefore, before denying a government
servant his constitutional right to an inquiry, the first
consideration would be whether the conduct of the concerned
government servant is such as	 justifies the	 penalty of
dismissal, removal or reduction in rank.	 Once	that
conclusion is reached and the condition specified in	 the
relevant clause	 of the	 second proviso	 is satisfied,	that
proviso becomes applicable and the government servant is not
entitled to an inquiry. The extent to which	a government
servant can be denied	his right to an inquiry formed the
subject-matter of considerable debate	at the	Bar and	 we,
therefore, now turn to the question whether under the second
proviso	 to Article 311(2) even though the	 inquiry is
dispensed with,	 some opportunity at least should not be
afforded to the government servant to	 that he is not left
wholly without	protection. As most of the arguments on this
Part of the case were common to all the three clauses of the
second proviso,	 it will be convenient at this stage to deal
at one	place with all the arguments on this part of the
case, leaving aside to	 be separately	dealt with the other
arguments pertaining only to a particular clause of	 the
second proviso. The Extent	 of Denial of Opportunity under the Second
Proviso
 It was submitted on behalf of the government servants
that an	 inquiry consists of several stages and, therefore,
even where by the application of the second proviso the full
inquiry is dispensed with, there is nothing to prevent the
disciplinary authority	from holding at least a minimal
inquiry because no prejudice can because by doing so. It was
further submitted that even though the three clauses of the
second proviso	are different	in their content, it	 was
feasible in the case of each of the three clauses to give to
the government	servant	 an opportunity of showing cause
against the penalty proposed to be imposed so as to enable
him to	convince the disciplinary authority that the nature
of the	misconduct attributed to him did not	call for his
dismissal, removal or reduction in rank. For instance, in a
case falling under clause (a) the government servant	 can
point out that the offence of which he was convicted was a
trivial or a technical one in respect of which the criminal
court had taken a lenient view and had sentenced him to pay
a nominal fine or had given him the benefit of probation.
Support for this submission was derived from Challappan's
case. It was	 further submitted that apart from	 the
opportunity to	show cause against the	 proposed penalty it
was also feasible to give a further opportunity in the case
of each of the three clauses though such opportunity in each 206 case may not be identical. Thus, it was argued that	 the
charge-sheet or	 at least a notice informing the government
servant of the charges	 against him and calling for	 his
explanation thereto was always	 feasible. It	was further
argued that though under clause (a) of the second proviso an
inquiry into the conduct which led to the conviction of the
government servant on	 a criminal charge would not be
necessary, such	 a notice would enable him to point out that
it was a case of mistaken identity and he was not the person
who had	 been convicted	 but was an altogether different
individual. It	was urged that there could be no practical
difficulty in serving such charge-sheet to the concerned
government servant because even if he	 were sentenced to
imprisonment, the charge-sheet or notice with respect to the
proposed penalty can always be sent to the jail in which he
is serving his sentence. So far as clause (b) is concerned,
it was	argued that even though it may not be reasonably
practicable to	hold an	 inquiry, the	explanation of	 the
government servant can at least be asked for with respect to
the charges made against him so that	 he would have an
opportunity of	showing in his written reply that he was not
guilty of any of those charges. It was also argued	that
assuming such government servant was absconding, the notice
could be sent by registered post to his last known address
or pasted there. Similar arguments as in case of clause (b)
were advanced with respect to clause (c). It was submitted
that the disciplinary authority could never make up its mind
whether to dismiss or remove or reduce in rank a government
servant	 unless	 such	minimal	 opportunity at least	 was
afforded to the government servant.	 Support for these
contentions was	 sought to be derived from (1) the language
of Article 311(2) and	the implications flowing therefrom,
(2) the	 principle of natural justice	including the	audi
alteram partem	rule comprehended in Article 14 , and (3) the
language certain rules made either under Acts referable to
the Article 309 or made under the proviso to that Article.
We will	 consider the contentions with	 respect to each of
these basis separately. So far as Article	 311(2) was concerned, it was said
that the language of the second proviso did	not negative
every single opportunity which could	 be afforded to a
government servant under different situations	 though	 the
nature of such opportunity may be different depending upon
the circumstances of the case. It was further submitted that
the object of the Article 311(2) was that no government
servant should be condemned unheard and dismissed or removed
or reduced in rank without affording	him at	 least	some
chance of either showing his innocence or convincing 207 the disciplinary authority that the proposed penalty was too
drastic and was uncalled for in his	case and a lesser
penalty	 should, therefore, be imposed upon	 him. These
arguments, though attractive at the first blush, do not bear
scrutiny. The language of the second proviso to Article 311(2) read in	 the light of the interpretation placed upon clause
(2) of Article 311 as originally enacted and the legislative
history of that clause	 wholly rule out the giving of any
opportunity. While construing Rule 55 of the Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules and the phrase "a
reasonable opportunity	of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken in regard to him" occurring in sub-
section (3) of section	 240 of the Government of India Act,
1935, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Lall's
case stated as follows (at page 242-3) : The very phrase "a reasonable opportunity of showing
cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to
him" in	 sub-section(3) of section 240 of the Government of
India Act, 1935, was repeated in clause (2) of Article 311 as originally enacted, that is in the said clauses prior too
its amendment by the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act,
1963 . Approving	 the construction placed by the Judicial
Committee upon	this phrase, this Court in Khem Chand v. The
Union of India & Ors. [1958]	S.C.R. 1080, held as follows
(at page 1095-97) : examining the	 witnesses produced against him and
	 by examining	himself or any other witnesses in
	 support of his defence ; and finally (c) an opportunity to make his representation as
	 to why the proposed	 punishment should not be
	 inflicted on	him, which he can only do if	 the
	 competent authority, after the enquiry is over and
	 after	 applying his	 mind	to the	 gravity or
	 otherwise of	 the charges	proved	against	 the
	 government servant tentatively proposes to inflict
	 one of the three punishments and communicates the
	 same to the	government servant. In short	 the
	 substance of	the protection	provided by rules,
	 like 210 rule 55 referred to	above , was bodily lifted out
	 of the rules	 and together	with an additional
	 opportunity embodied in s.240(3) of the Government
	 of India Act, 1935 so as to give	a statutory
	 protection to	 the government servants and has now
	 been incorporated in Article 311(2) so as to
	 convert the	 protection into a constitutional
	 safeguard." While the	Judicial Committee in Lall 's case held that
two opportunities were required - one under rule 55 of the
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules to
show cause against the charges of misconduct made against a
government servant, and the other under sub-section (3) of section 240 of the Government of India Act, 1935, to show
cause against the proposed penalty, this Court in Khem
Chand 's case held that Article 311(2) bodily lifted the said
rule 55	 and the additional opportunity provided for in section 240(3) of the	 1935 Act and	 incorporated these
provisions in Article 311(2) so as to convert the protection
afforded to government servants into a constitutional
safeguard. This	 conclusion was	 reached by this Court even
though Article	311(2) used the same language	 as section
240(3) . The Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 ,
substituted the	 whole of clause (2). The substituted clause
specifically provided for two opportunities to be given to a
government servant :(1) to be informed of	the charges
against him and to be given a reasonable opportunity of
defending himself against those charges,	and (2) a
reasonable opportunity	 of making representation on	 the
penalty proposed where after such inquiry it was proposed to
impose on him the penalty of dismissal, removal or reduction
in rank. No additional rights were, however, conferred upon
government servants by the above amendment because it merely
declared the rights which a	government servant already
possessed under	 the original clause (2) of Article 311 as
interpreted by	 this Court in Khem	Chand's	 case.	This
amendment, therefore, was merely declaratory, but in a way
it was also clarificatory because it restricted the right of
representation on the proposed	 penalty to a representation
only on	 the basis of	 the evidence	adduced	 during	 the
inquiry. This	 clarification	perhaps	 became necessary
because, as pointed out by this Court in Suresh Koshy George
v. The	University of Kerala &	 Ors. [1969] 1 S.C.R.	317, 326., there prevailed an erroneous impression	 in certain
quarters, evidently influenced by the	 provisions of	 the
unamended Article 311(2) that every disciplinary proceeding
must consist of two inquiries, one before issuing a show
cause notice to be followed by another inquiry thereafter.
This amendment,	 therefore, made it expressly clear that the
inquiry to be held against 211 a government servant was to be one in which a charge-sheet
or a show-cause notice was to be issued to him informing him
of the	charges against	 him and giving him a reasonable
opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges and a
further opportunity of making representation on the penalty
proposed to be imposed	 on him but only on the basis of the
evidence adduced during such inquiry. The	 substituted
clause, therefore, showed that	 the issue of a charge-sheet
or a show-cause notice	 in respect of the charges framed
against a government servant and a notice to	 show cause
against the proposed penalty	were part of	the inquiry
contemplated by Article 311 (2). Even assuming for the sake
of argument that because Article 311(2) , as substituted by
the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment)	 Act , spoke of "a
reasonable opportunity	 of making representation on	 the
penalty proposed" in a	 case "where it is proposed, after
such inquiry, to impose on him any such penalty", the show
cause notice with respect to penalty was not a part of the
inquiry, the opening words of the proviso to clause (2) (now
the second proviso to that clause) namely, "Provided further
that this clause shall	 not apply", would, where any of the
three clauses of the said proviso applies, take away both
the right to have an inquiry	held in which the government
servant would be entitled to a charge-sheet as also	 the
right to make a representation on the proposed penalty. As
mentioned above, the words "this clause shall not apply" are
the key-words in the second proviso and govern each	 and
every clause thereof and by reason of these words not only
the holding of an inquiry but all the provisions of clause
(2) have been dispensed with. The question which then arises is, " Whether	 the
Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act,	1976 , which
further amended	 the substituted clause (2) of Article 311 with effect from 1st January 1977, has made any change in
the law?" The amendments made by this Act are that in clause
(2) that portion which required a reasonable opportunity of
making representation on the proposed penalty to be given to
a government servant was deleted and in its place the first
proviso was inserted, which expressly provides that it is
not necessary to give to a delinquent government servant any
opportunity of	 making representation on the proposed
penalty. Does this affect the operation of the original
proviso which,	by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment)
Act , became the second	 proviso? Such obviously was not and
could not have been the intention of Parliament. The opening
words of the second proviso remain the same except that the
word 'further'	was inserted after the word	 'Provided',
because the original proviso by reason of the insertion of
another proviso before it became 212 the second proviso. It should be borne in mind that the show
cause notice at the punishment stage was originally there as
a result of the interpretation placed by the Judicial
Committee in Lal 's case and by this Court in Khem Chand's
case upon the phrase "a reasonable opportunity of showing
cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to
him". Clause	(2) as	 substituted by the Constitution
(Fifteenth Amendment) Act merely reproduced the substance of
what was held	 in Khem Chand 's case. The	words which
originally found a place in	clause	(2), "a reasonable
opportunity of	showing cause against the action proposed to
be taken in regard to him", do not any more	 feature in
clause (2). All that clause (2) now provides is an inquiry
in which the government servant is informed of the charges
against him and given	a reasonable opportunity of being
heard in respect of those charges. Clause (2) taken by
itself even without the first proviso	 does not provide,
expressly impliedly,	for any opportunity	to make a
representation	against	 the proposed	penalty. After	 the
Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment)	 Act this second
opportunity formed a separate part of clause (2), which part
was deleted by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment)
Act . Thus, when the second proviso states in	 its opening
words that "Provided further that this clause shall	 not
apply" it means that whatever safe-guards are to be found in
clause (2) are wholly taken away in a case where any of the
three clauses of the second proviso is attracted. In this
connection, the	 following observations of this Court in the Case of	 Suresh Koshy George v. The University of Kerala &
Ors. (at page 326-7) are pertinent : In Associated Cement Companies	 Ltd. v. T.C.Shrivastava &
Ors. , [1984] 3 S.C.R. 361,369, this Court held that "neither
under the ordinary law of the land nor under industrial law
a second opportunity to show cause against the proposed
punishment is necessary". Since a right to such opportunity
does not exist in law, it follows that the only right which
the government	servant had to make a representation on the
proposed penalty was to be found 213 in clause (2) of Article 311 prior to its amendment by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act . This right having
been taken away by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment)
Act , there is no provision of law under which a government
servant can claim this right. As for the argument that in a case under clause (a) of
the second proviso a government servant could be wrongly
dismissed, removed or reduced	in rank	 mistaking him	 for
another with the same name unless he is given an opportunity
of bringing to the notice of the disciplinary authority that
he is not the individual who has been convicted, it can only
be described as being	too fanciful and far-fetched	 for
though	such a case	 of mistaken	 identity may	 be
hypothetically possible, it is highly improbable. As in all
other organization, there is	 in government	 service an
extremely active grapevine, both departmental	 and inter-
departmental, which is constantly active,	humming	 and
buzzing with service news and office	gossip, and it would
indeed be strange if the news that a member of a department
was facing prosecution or had been convicted were to remain
a secret for	long. Assuming	 such a case	occurs,	 the
government servant is not without any remedy. He can prove
in a departmental appeal which service rules provide for,
save in exceptional cases, that he has been wrongly mistaken
for another. Similarly, it is not possible to accept the
argument that unless a	 written explanation with respect to
the charges is asked for from a government servant and his
side of	 the case known, the penalty which would be imposed
upon him, could be grossly out of proportion to his actual
misconduct. The disciplinary authorities are expected to act
justly and fairly after taking into account all the facts
and circumstances of the case and if they act arbitrarily
and impose a penalty which is unduly excessive, capricious
or vindictive, it can be set aside in a departmental appeal.
In any event, the remedy by way of judicial review is always
open to a government servant. The position which emerges from the above discussion is
that the key-words of	the second proviso govern each and
every clause of that proviso and leave no scope for any kind
of opportunity	to be given to	 a government servant.	 The
phrase "this clause shall not apply"	is mandatory and not
directory. It	 is in	 the nature of a Constitutional
prohibitory injunction restraining	 the	disciplinary
authority from	holding an inquiry under Article 311(2) or
from giving any kind	 of opportunity to the concerned
government servant. There is thus no scope for introducing
into 214 the second proviso some kind of inquiry or opportunity by a
process of inference or implication. The maxim "expressum
facit cessare tacitum" ("when	there is express mention of
certain things,	 then anything	not mentioned is excluded")
applies to the case. As pointed out by this Court in B.
Shankara Rao Badam & Ors. v. State of Mysore & Anr. , [1969]
3 S.C.R. 1, 12, this well-known maxim is a principle of
logic and common sense	 and not merely a technical rule of
construction. The second proviso expressly mentions	that
clause (2) shall not apply where one of the clauses of that
proviso becomes	 applicable. This express mention excludes
everything that	 clause (2) contains and there can be no
scope for once again introducing the opportunities provided
by clause (2) or any one of them into the second proviso. In
Atkinson v. United States of America Government, L.R. [1971]
A.C. 197, Lord Reid said (at page 232) : Here, however,	the attempt is not merely to	do something
contrary to the intention of "Parliament", that is, in our
case, the Constituent Assembly, but to do something contrary
to an express prohibition contained in the Constitution. The
conclusion which flows from the express language of	 the
second proviso is inevitable and there is no escape from it.
It may	appear harsh but, as mentioned earlier, the second
proviso has been inserted in the Constitution as a matter of
public policy and in public interest	and for	 public good
just as	 the pleasure doctrine and the safeguards for a
government servant provided in clause (1) and (2) of Article
311 have been. It is in public interest and for public good
that government	 servant who has been	convicted of a grave
and serious offence or	 one rendering him unfit to continue
in office should be summarily dismissed or removed	from
service instead of being allowed to continue in it at public
expense and to public	detriment. It is equally in public
interest and for public good that where his offence is such
that he should not be permitted to continue to hold the same
rank, that he should be reduced in rank. Equally, where a
public servant	by himself or in concert with	 others	 has
brought about a situation in which it is not reasonably
practicable to hold an inquiry and his conduct is such as to
justify his dismissal, removal	 or reduction in rank, both
public interest and public good demand that such 215 penalty should	forthwith and summarily be imposed upon him;
and similarly,	where in the interest of the security of the
State it is not expedient to hold an inquiry, it is in the
public interest	 and for public good that where one of the
three punishments of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank
is called for, it should be summarily imposed upon	 the
concerned government servant. It was argued that in a case
falling under clause (b) or (c), a government servant ought
to be place under suspension until the situation improves or
the danger to the security of the State has passed, as the
case may be, and it becomes possible to hold an inquiry.
This argument overlooks the fact that	 suspension involves
the payment at least of subsistence	allowance and	such
allowance is paid at public expense, and that neither public
interest would	be benefited nor public good served by
placing such government servant under suspension because it
may take a considerable time for the situation to improve or
the danger to be over. Much as this	may seem harsh	 and
oppressive to a government servant, this Court must	 not
forget that the object	 underlying the	 second	 proviso is
public policy, public interest and public good and the Court
must, therefore, repel the temptation to be carried away by
feelings of commiseration and sympathy for those government
servants who have been dismissed, removed or reduced in rank
by applying the second	 proviso. Sympathy and commiseration
cannot be allowed to out weigh considerations of public
policy, concern	 for public interest, regard for public good
and the	 peremptory dictate of a Constitutional prohibition.
The Court must bear in mind that the second proviso has been
in the	Constitution since it was originally enacted. It was
not blindly or slavishly copied from section 240(3) of the
Government of India Act, 1935. Article 311 was article 282-B
of the	draft Constitution of India and the draft Article
282-B was discussed and a considerable debate took place on
it in the Constituent	Assembly (see the Official Report of
the Constituent	 Assembly Debates, vol.IX, page 1099 to
1116). The greater part of this debate centred upon	 the
proviso to clause (2)	of the draft article 282-B, which is
now the	 second proviso	 to Article 311. Further, the Court
should also bear in mind that	 clause (c) of	 the second
proviso and clause (3)	 of Article 311 did not feature in section 240 of the Government of India Act, 1935, but were
new provisions	consciously introduced	by the	 Constituent
Assembly in Article 311. Those who formed the Constituent
Assembly were not the advocates of a despotic or dictatorial
form of	 government. They were the persons who enacted into
our Constitution the Chapter on Fundamental	Rights.	 The
majority of them had fought for freedom and	had suffered
imprisonment in the cause of liberty 216 and they, therefore, were not likely to introduce into our
Constitution any provision from the earlier Government of
India Acts which had been intended purely for the benefit of
a foreign imperialistic power. After all, it is not as if a
government applied to him. There are	two remedies open to
him, servant is without any remedy when the second proviso
has been applied to him. There are two remedies open to him,
namely, departmental appeal and judicial review. The scope
and extent of these remedies will be considered later in the
course of this judgment. Article 14 and the Second Proviso
 The next question which false to	 be considered	 is,
"Does Article 14 make	any difference	to the	consequences
which flow from the second proviso to Article 311(2)?" It
was submitted on behalf of the government servants	that Article 14 in which the principle of natural	 justice are
comprehended permeates	 the	entire	 Constitution	and,
therefore, Article 14 must be read into the second proviso
to Article 311(2) and	according if not under that proviso
read by	 itself, under	it read with Article 14 a government
servant is entitled to an opportunity both of showing cause
against the charges made against him	as also	 against the
penalty	 proposed to be imposed upon him,	though	such
opportunity may	 not extend to the holding of a complete and
elaborate inquiry as would be the case where clause (2) of Article 311 applies. According	 to learned Counsel this is
what is	 required by the audi	alteram partem rule which is
one of	the two	 main principles of natural Justice. In the
alternative it	was submitted that though an order may be
valid and supportable under the second proviso to Article
311(2) , it could none	the less be void under Article 14 on
the ground that the principles of natural justice have been
wholly	disregarded. These arguments	are based upon an
imperfect understanding of the principles of natural justice
in their application in courts of law to the adjudication of
causes before them and the function of Article 14 vis-a-vis
the other provisions of the Constitution and particularly
the second proviso to Article 311(2). The principles of natural justice are not the creation
of Article 14. Article	 14 is	not their begetter but their
Constitutional guardian. Principles of natural justice trace
their ancestry	to ancient civilizations and centuries long
past. Until about two	 centuries ago	 the term "natural
justice" was often used interchangeably with "natural law" There are	certain basic values which man has cherished
throughout the	ages. But man looked about him and found the
ways of	 men to	 be cruel and unjust and so also their laws
and customs. He saw men flogged, tortured, mutilated, made
slaves, and sentenced to row the galleys or	toil in	 the
darkness of the mines	or to fight in an arena with wild an
hungry beasts of the Jungle or to die in other ways a cruel,
horrible and lingering death.	He found judges to be venal
and servile to those in power and the laws they administered
to be capricious, changing with the whims of the ruler to
suit his purpose. When, therefore, he found a system of law
which did not so change, he praised	it. Thus, the	 old
Testament in the Book of Esther (I,19) speaks 218 admiringly of legal system of the Achaemenid dynasty (the
First Persian Empire) in which "a royal commandment"	 was
"written among	the laws of the Persians and the Medes, that
it be not altered." Man saw cities and towns sacked	 and
pillaged, their populace dragged into captivity	 and
condemned to slavery - the men to labour, the women and the
girls to concubinage, and the young boys to	be castrated
into eunuches - their only crime being that their ruler had
the misfortune	to be defeated in battle and to lose one of
his cities or towns to the enemy. Thus, there was neither
hope nor help in man-made laws or man-established customs
for they were one-sided and oppressive, intended to benefit
armed might and monied	 power and to subjugate the down-
trodden poor and the helpless needy. If there was any help
to be found or	 any hope to be discovered, it was only in a
law based on justice and reason which transcended the laws
and customs of men, a law made by some one	greater	 and
mightier than those men who made these laws and established
these customs.	Such a	person could only be a divine being
and such a law	 could only be "natural law" or "the law of
nature" meaning	 thereby "certain rules of conduct supposed
to be so just	that they are binding upon all mankind." It
was not	 "the law of nature "in the sense of "the law of the
jungle" where the lion devours the lamb and the tiger feeds
upon the antelope because the lion is hungry and the tiger
famished but a higher	law of	nature or "the natural law" Rejecting the above argument, the House of Lords unanimously
held that the function	 of the	 court was to consider	 and
apply the enactments of Parliament, and accordingly, in the
course of litigation, it was	not lawful to	 impugn	 the
validity of a statute by	seeking	 to establish	that
Parliament, in passing it, was misled by fraud or otherwise,
nor might a litigant seek to establish a claim in equity by
showing that the other	 party, by fraudulently misleading
Parliament, had inflicted damage on him; for	 any
investigation into the manner in which Parliament	 had
exercised its	 function would or might result in an
adjudication by	 the courts, bringing about a conflict with
Parliament. As a result of the infusion of new ideas during the
Renaissance and	 the Reformation, the intellectual authority
of reason again came to be substituted for the spiritual
authority of divine law as the basis of natural law. This
new or	rather resuscitated basis of natural law was laid by
Grotius (Huigh	de Groot) in his "De jure belli ac Pacis" -
the precursor or of modern public international law. Reason as	 the theoretical basis for natural	law,
however, once again suffered a reversal at the hand of David
Hume. According to Hume, only knowledge	obtained by
mathematical reasoning	was certain; knowledge obtained from
other sciences	being only probable. His theory of justice
was that it served both an ethical	and a	sociological
function. He contended that public utility was the	sole
origin of legal justice and the sole	 foundation of	 its
merit, and that for a legal system to be useful, it must
adhere to its rules even though it may cause injustice in
particular cases. He did not make a formal analysis of law
but distinguished equity or the general system of morality,
the legal order, and law, as a body of precepts. According
to him,	 the authority	of civil law modified	the rules of
natural justice	 according to the particular convenience of
each community. Blackstone, however, in his "Commentaries on the Laws
of England" had this to say about natural law : In the nineteenth and twentieth centuries there was a
reaction against natural law as the basis of law. The French
Revolution had	enthroned reason as a goddess. The excesses
of the French Revolution, however, led to a reaction against
the theory that reason was the basis of law. The utilitarian
view was that the basis for law was the practical inquiry as
to what	 would most conduce to	 the general benefit.	 The
spirit	of scientific	 inquiry which pre-dominated	 the
nineteenth and	 twentieth centuries	 could	not favour
hypotheses which were vague and unprovable. In the twentieth
century, disillusionment with the theory that	 good could
come out of the power of the State and positive law has,
however, once again brought about a revival of interest in
natural law. Apart from providing	 the	subject-matter	 for
philosophical dissertations and speculative theories on the
origin and attributes of natural law, the concept of natural
law has	 made invaluable contribution to the development of
positive law. It helped to transform the rigidity of the jus
civile of the Romans into a more equitable system based on
the theory of the jus gentium. It provided arguments to both
sides in the struggle	during the Middle Ages	 between the
Popes and the	Emperors. It inspired	 in the eighteenth
century the movement for codification of law in order to
formulate ideas derives from the concept of natural law into
detailed rules. England, the idea of natural law and natural
justices has influenced its law in several respects.	 The
origin and development of equity in England owed much to
natural law. It also served as the basis for the recognition
or rejection of a custom. It	was looked to for support in
the struggle for supremacy which took	 place	between	 the
judges	and Parliament	 in the seventeenth century.	 The
concept of natural law	 and natural rights influenced	 the
drafting of the Constitution of the United States of America
and many of the amendments	made thereto as also	 the
Constitutions of its various States. It has provide a basis
for much of modern international law and International
Conventions, Covenants	and Declarations. Above all, it has
enriched positive law by introducing into it the principles
of natural justice, divested of all their philosophical,
metaphysical and theological trappings and disassociated
from their identification with, or supposed derivation from,
natural law. Natural justice has been variously defined by different
judges. A few instances will suffice.	 In Drew v. Drew and
Leburn [1855] 2 Macq.	1,8, Lord Craworth defined it as
"universal justice". In James	Dunbar Smith v. Her Majesty
The Queen 223 [1877-78] 3 App. Cas.	614,623 J.C., Sir Robert P.Collier,
speaking for the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council,
used the phrase "the requirements of substantial Justice",
while in Arthur John Spacmkman v. The Plumstead District
Board of Works L.R. [1884-85] 10 App. Case. 229,240, Earl of
Selborne, L.C., preferred the phrase "the	 substantial
requirements of	 justice". In Vionet and another v. Barrett
and another [1885] 55	L.J. Q.B. 39,41, Lord	Esher, M.R.,
defined natural	 justice as "the natural sense of what is
right and wrong". While, however, deciding	Hopkins	 and
another v. Smethwick Local Board of Health L.R.[1890] 24
Q.B.D. 712,716,	 Lord Esher, M.R., instead of using	 the
definition given earlier by him in Vionet and another v.
Barret and another chose to	define	natural	 justice as
"fundamental justice".	In Ridge v. Baldwin and others L.R.
[1963] 1. Q.B. 539,578, Harman, L.J., in the Court of Appeal
equated natural justice with "fair play of action", a phrase
favoured by Bhagwati, J., in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India [1978] 2 S.C.R. 621,676. In re.H.K. (An Infant) L.R. [1967]
2 Q.B.	617,630, lord Parker, C.J., preferred to describe
natural justice	 as a duty to	act fairly". In Fair-mount
Investment Ltd.	 v. Secretary of State	 for the Environment
[1976] 1 W.L.R. 1255,1265-66,	 Lord Russell	of Killowen
somewhat picturesquely	described natural justice as "a fair
crack of the whip". While Geoffrey Lane L.J., in Regina v.
Secretary of State for	 Home Affairs,	Ex parte Hosenball
[1977] 1 W.L.R. 766,784, preferred the homely phrase "common
fairness". As some judges, for instance, Ormond, L.J., in Lewis v.
Heffer and others [1978] 1 W.L.R. 1061,1076, have found the
phrase "natural	 justice" to be a highly attractive	 and
potent phrase". it may not be out of place, in order to set
the balance right, to	reproduce a passage, full of robust
common sense and biting Irony, from the judgment of Maugham,
J.., in	 Maclean v. The Workers Union L.R. [1929] 1	 Ch.
602,624. That passage is as follows : In the Supreme Court of Ireland, Black. J., in William
Green v. Isidore J. Blake and others [1948] I.R. 242, after
referring to the above passage from the judgment of Maugham,
J., proceeded to state (at page 268) : Megarry, J., also found it necessary	to sound a note of
warning in Hounslow London Borough Council v. Twickenham
garden Developments Ltd. L.R.	[1971] Ch. 233, wherein he
said (at page 259) : (Emphasis supplied) 225 Some judges have been faced with	 the contention as
Maugham, L.J.,	was in	Errington and others v. Minister of
Health L.R. [1935] 1 K.B. 249,280, that "the principles of
natural justice	 are vague and difficult to	 ascertain".
Referred to such contentions Lord Reid said in Ridge v.
Baldwin and others L.R. [1964] A.C. 40, on appeal from L.R.
[1963] 1 Q.B. 539, (at page 64-65): (Emphasis supplied)
 How then have the	 principles of	natural justice been
interpreted in the courts and within what limits are they to
be confined? Over the	 years	by a process	of judicial
interpretation two rules have	been evolved as representing
the principles	of natural justice in judicial process,
including therein quasi-judicial	and administrative
processes. They	 constitute the	 basic elements	 of a	fair
hearing, having	 their roots in the innate sense of man for
fair play and justice	which is not the preserve of	 any
particular race	 or country but is shared in common by all
men. The first rule is "nemo	judex in causa sua" or "nemo
debet esse judex in propria causa" as stated in 12 Co. Rep.
114, that is, no man shall be a judge in his own cause".
Coke used the form "aliouis non debt esse judex in propria
causa quia non potest esse judex et pars" (Co. Litt. 141a),
that is, "no man ought to be a judge in his own cause,
because he cannot act	as a judge and at the same time be a
party". The form "nemo	 potest esse simul actor et judex",
that is, "no one can be at once suitor and judge" is also at
times used. The second rule - and 226 that is	 the rule with which are concerned in these Appeals
and Writ Petitions - is "audi	 alteram partem". that	 is,
"hear the other side". At	times and particularly in
continental countries the form "audietur et altera pars" is
used, meaning very much the same thing. A corollary has been
deduced from the above	 two rules and particularly the audi
alteram partem	rule, namely, "qui alliquid statuerit parte
inaudita altera, aequum licet dixerit, haud aequum fecerit".
that is, "he who shall decide	 anything without the other
side having been heard, although he may have said what is
right, will not have done what is right" (see Boswell's
case) [1606] 6 Co. Rep. 48b,52a, or, in other words, as it
is now	expressed, "justice should not	 only be done	 but
should manifestly be seen to be done." The above two rules and their corollary are neither new
nor were they the discovery of English judges. They were
recognized in may civilizations and over many centuries.
Roman law recognized the need for a judge to be impartial
and not	 to have a personal interest in the case before him
(Digest V.1.17)	 and Tacitus in his "Dialogus" referred to
this principle. Under Roman law a judge who heard a cause in
which he had an interest was liable as on a quasi-delict to
the party prejudiced thereby (Justinian's Institutes IV, 5
pr.;as also Justinian's Codex	III, 5, 1). Even the Kiganda
tribesmen of Buganda have an old proverb which literally
translated means "a monkey does not decide an affair of the
forest (see "law and Justice in Buganda" by	E.S. Haydo,
p.333).	 The requirement of	hearing	 both sides before
arriving at a decision	 was part of the judicial oath in
Athens. It also formed the subject-matter of a proverb which
was often referred to or quoted by Greek playwrights, as for
instance, by Aritophanes in his comedy "The	 Wasps"	 and
Euripides in his tragedies "Heracleidae" and "Andromache",
and by	Greek orators,	for instance,	Demosthenes in	 his
speech "De Corona". Among the Romans, Seneca in his tragedy
"Medea" referred to the injustice of	coming to a decision
without a full hearing. In fact, the corollary drawn in
Boswell's case	is taken from a line in Seneca's "Medea". In
the Gospel according to St. John(vii,51), Nicodemus asked
the chief priests and the Pharisees, "Doth our law judge any
man, before it hear him, and know what he doeth?" Even the
proverb and songs of African tribesmen, for instance, of the
Lozi tribe in Barotseland refer to this rule (see	"The
Judicia Process	 Among the Barotse Northern Rhodesia" by Max
Gluckman, p.102.)
 The two rules "nemo judex in causa sua" and "audi
alteram 227 partem" and their corollary that justice should not only be
done but should manifestly be seen to be done have	been
recognized from	 early days in English courts. References to
them are to be	 found in the Year Books - a title preferred
to the	alternative one of "Books of Years and Terms"- which
were a	regular series,	 with a	 few gaps, of law reports in
Anglo-norman or	 Norman-French	or a mixture	of English,
Norman-French and French, which had then become the court
language, from	the 1270s to 1535 or, as printed after the
invention of the printing press, from 1290 to 1535, that is,
from the time	of Edward II	to Henry VIII. The above
principles of natural justice came to be firmly established
over the course of centuries and have become a part of the
law of	the land. Both in England and in India they apply to
civil as well as to criminal	cases and to the exercise of
judicial, quasi-judicial and	administrative	powers.	 The
expression "natural justice" is now so well understood in
England that it has been used	 without any definition in
statutes of Parliament, for example, in section 3(10) of the
Foreign Compensation Act, 1969, and section 6(13) of	 the
Trade Union and Labour	 Reforms Act, 1974, which was later
repealed by the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Amendment)
Act, 1976. These rules of	natural	 justice have	been
recognized and	 given	effect	to in	many countries	 and
different systems of	 law.	They have now received
international recognition by being enshrined in Article 10 of the	Universal Declaration of Human	 Rights adopted	 and
proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations by
Resolution 217A	 (III) of December 10,1948. Article 6 of the
European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and
Fundamental Freedoms which came into force on September 3,
1953, and Article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil
and Political	 Rights	 adopted by the General Assembly
Resolution 2200A (XXI) of December 16, 1966, which came into
force on March 23, 1976. Article 14 does not set out in express terms either of
the above two well-established rules of natural justice. The
question which	then arises is "Whether the rules of natural
justice form part of Article 14 and, if so, how?" Article 14 thus contains an express Constitutional
injunction against the	 State	as defined in Article 12 prohibiting the State from denying to any person(1) equality
before the law, or (2) the equal protection	of the laws.
Neither of these two concepts are new. They are based upon
similar provisions in other Constitutions. One instance is section 40(1) of the Constitution of	Eire of	 1937, which
occurs in the Chapter	entitled Fundamental Rights in that
Constitution. The Constitution of Eire begins	 on a strong
religious note. It starts by stating : Section 40(1) of that Constitution provides as follows
: Another instance is Article 3(1) of the Constitution of the
Federal Republic of Germany of 1948 which states: Constitution of	 some other countries	 also have similar
provisions but	 as these Constitutions have suffered
political vicissitudes,	 it is unnecessary to refer to them.
Provisions similar to Article 14 are to be found in
International Charters	and Conventions. Thus, Article 7 of
the Universal Declaration Human Rights of 1948, provides as
follows: Article 14 is divided into two parts. In Re	 The
Special Courts	Bill, 1978 [1979] 2 S.C.R. 476, Chandrachud,
C.J., describe	the two	 parts of Article 14 as follows (at
page 534): Article 14 contains a guarantee of equality before the
law to	 all persons and a protection to them against
discrimination by any law. Sub-clause (a) of clause (3) of Article 13 defines law as follows: What Article 14 forbids is discrimination by law, that is,
treating persons similarly circumstanced differently or
treating those	not similarly circumstanced in the same way
or, as has been pithily put, treating equals as unequals and
unequals as	equals. Article 14 prohibits hostile
classification by law and is directed against discriminatory
class legislation. The propositions deducible from decisions
of this court on this point have 230 been set out in the form of thirteen	 propositions in the
judgment of Chandrachud, C.J.,	 in In Re The Special Courts
Bill, 1978. The first of these propositions which describes
the nature of the two parts of Article 14 has been extracted
earlier. We are not concerned in these Appeals and	Writ
Petitions with	the other propositions set out in	that
judgment. In early days, this	 Court	was concerned	with
discriminatory and hostile class legislation and it was to
this aspect of Article	 14 that its attention was directed.
As fresh thinking began to take place on the scope an anoint
of Article 14 , new dimensions to this guarantee of equality
before the law and of the equal protection of the	laws
emerged and were recognized by this Court. It was realized
that to treat one person differently from another when there
was no	rational basis	for doing so would be arbitrary act
thus discriminatory. Arbitrariness can	 take many forms and
shapes but whatever form or shape it takes, it is none the
less discrimination. It also became apparent that to treat a
persons or a class of persons unfairly would be an arbitrary
act amounting to discrimination forbidden by Article	 14. Similarly, this	 Court, recognized that to treat a person in
violation of the principles of natural justice would amount
to arbitrary and discriminatory treatment and would violate
the guarantee given by Article 14. In State of Andhra Pradesh and another v. Nalla Raja
Reddy and others [1967] 3 S.C.R. 28, Subba	 Rao, C.J.,
speaking for the Court, said (at page 46): While considering Article 14 and Article 16 , Bhagwati,
J., in E.P. Royappa v. State	of Tamil Nadu	and another [1974] 2 S.C.R. 348, in a passage which has become a classic
said (at page 386): The principles of natural justice have thus come to be
recognized as being a	part of	 the guarantee	contained in Article 14 because of	the new	 and dynamic interpretation
given by this Court to the concept of equality which is the
subject-matter of that Article. Shortly put, the syllogism
runs thus violation of a rule of natural justice results in
arbitrariness which is the same as discrimination; where
discrimination is the result of state action, it is a
violation of Article	14: therefore,	 a violation of a
principle of natural	justice	 by a	State action is a
violation of Article 14. Article 14 ,	however, is not the
sole repository	 of the	 principles of natural justice. What
it does	 is to	guarantee that	 any law or State action
violating them	will be struck down.	 The principles of
natural justice, however, apply not only to legislation and
State action but also where any tribunal, authority or body
men, not coming within the definition 234 of "State" in Article	12 , is	charged	 with the duty of
deciding a matter. In such a case, the principles of natural
justice require	 that it must decide such matter fairly and
impartially. The rule of natural justice with which we are concerned
in these Appeals and	Writ Petitions, namely, the	audi
alteram partem	rule, in its fullest amplitude means that a
person against	whom an order to his prejudice may be passed
should be informed of	the allegations	 and charges against
him, be	 given an opportunity of submitting his explanation
thereto, have the right to know the evidence, both oral or
documentary, by	 which the matter is proposed to be decided
against him, and to inspect the documents which are relied
upon for the purpose of being used against him, to have the
witnesses who are to give evidence against him examined in
his presence and have	the right to cross-examine them, and
to lead	 his own evidence, both oral and documentary, in his
defence. The process of a fair hearing need not, however,
conform to the judicial process in a court of law, because
judicial adjudication	 of causes involves a number of
technical rules of procedure and	evidence which	 are
unnecessary and	 not required for the	purpose	 of a	fair
hearing within	the meaning of audi alteram partem rule in a
quasi-judicial or administrative inquiry. If	we look at
clause (2) of Article	311 in	the light of what is stated
above, it will be apparent that	 clause is merely an express
statement of	the audi alteram partem rule which is
implicitly made	 part of the guarantee contained in Article
14 as a result	 of the interpretation placed upon	that
Article by recent decisions of this Court. Clauses (2) of Article 311 requires that before a government servant is
dismissed, removed or reduced	in rank, an inquiry must be
held in	 which he is informed of the charges against him and
given a	 reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of
those charges.	The nature of the hearing to be given to a
government servant under clauses (2) of Article 311 has been
elaborately set	 out by	 this Court in Khem chand's case in
the passages from the judgment extracted above. Though that
case related to the original clause (2) of Article 311 , the
same applies to the present clause (2) of Article 311 except
for the	 fact that now a government servant has no right to
make any representation against the penalty proposed to be
imposed upon him but, as pointed out earlier, in the case of Suresh Koshy George v. The University of Kerala and others ,
such an opportunity is not the requirement of the principles
of natural justice and as	held in Associated Cement
Companies Ltd.	v. T. C. Shrivastava and others neither the
ordinary law of the land nor industrial law requires such an
opportunity to be given. The 235 Opportunity of	showing cause against the proposed penalty
was only the result of the interpretation placed by	 the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Lall 's Case upon section 240(3) of the	Government of India, 1935, which was
accepted by this Court in Khem Chand 's Case. If, therefore,
an inquiry held against a government	servant under clause
(2) of Article 311 is unfair or biased or has been conducted
in such	 a manner as not to give him a fair or reasonable
opportunity to	defend himself,	 undoubtedly, the principles
of natural justice would be violated, but in such a case the
order of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank would be
held to	 be bad	 as contravening the express provisions of
clause (2) of Article	311 and	 there will be no scope for
having	recourse to Article	 14 for the	purpose	 of
invalidating it. Though the two rules of natural justice, namely,
nemojudex in causa sua	 em audi alteram part,	 have now a
definite meaning and connotation in law and their content
and implications are well understood and firmly established
the are	 none the less not statutory rules. Each of these
rules yields to and changes with the exigencies of different
situations. They do not apply in the same manner to
situations which are not alike. These rules are not case in
a rigid	 mould nor can they be put in a legal strait-jacket.
They are not immutable	 but flexible.	These rules can be
adapted and modified by statutes and	statutory rules	 and
also by the Constitution of the Tribunal which has to decide
particular matter and	rules by which such	Tribunal is
governed. There is no difference in this respect between the
law in	England and in India. It is unnecessary to refer to
various English	 decisions which have	 held so. It	will
suffice to reproduce what Ormond, L.J., said	 in Norwest
Holst Ltd. v. Secretary of State for Trade and others L.R.
[1978]1 Ch.201 (at page 227): In India,	in Suresh Koshy George v. The University of
Kerala and others this Court observed (at page 322): After referring to this case, in A.K.	Kraipak	 and
others etc. v. Union of India	 and others [1970] 1 S.C.R.
457, Hegde, J., observed (at page 469): Again in Union of India v. Col . J.N. Sinha and another
[1971] 1 S.C.R. 791, it was said (at page 794-5): In Swadeshi Cotton Mills	v. Union of India [1981] 2
S.C.R. 533, Chinnappa Reddy, J., in his dissenting judgment
summarized the	position in law on this point as follows (at
page 591): (Emphasis supplied.)
 Not only,	therefore, can	the principles	 of natural
justice be modified but in exceptional cases they can even
be excluded. There are	 well-defined exceptions to the nemo
judex in causa sua rule as also to the audi alteram partem
rule. The nemo judex in causa	 sua rule is subject to the
doctrine of necessity and yields to it as pointed out by
this Court in J.Mohapatra & Co. and another	v. State of
Orissa and another [1985] 1 S.C.R. 322,334-5. So far as the
audi alteram partem rule is concerned, both in England and
in India, it is well established that where	a right to a
prior notice and an opportunity to be heard before an order
is passed would obstruct the taking of prompt action, such a 238 right can be excluded. This right can also be excluded where
the nature of the action to be taken, its object and purpose
and the	 scheme of the relevant statutory provisions warrant
its exclusion;	nor can	 the audi alteram partem rule be
invoked if importing it would have the effect of paralysing
the administrative process or where the need for promptitude
or the	urgency of taking action so demands, as pointed out
in Maneka Gandhi 's case at page 681. If legislation and the
necessities of	a situation can exclude the principles of
natural justice	 including the	audi alteram partem rule, a
fortiorari so can a provision or the Constitution, for a
Constitutional provision has a far greater and all-pervading
sanctity than a statutory provision. In the present case,
clause (2) of Article	311 is	expressly excluded by	 the
opening words of the second proviso and particularly	 its
key-words this clause shall not apply. As pointed out above,
clause (2) of Article 311 embodies in express words the audi
alteram partem	rule. This principle	of natural justice
having	been expressly excluded by	 a Constitutional
provision, namely, the second	proviso	 to clause (2) of Article 311 , there is	no scope for reintroducing it by a
side-door to provide once again the same inquiry which the
Constitutional provision has expressly	 prohibited. Where a
clause of the second proviso is applied on an extraneous
ground or a ground having no	relation to the situation
envisaged in that clause, the action in so applying it would
be mala	 fide, and, therefore, void. In such	a case	 the
invalidating factor may be referable to Article 14. This is,
however, the only scope which Article 14 can have in
relation to the second	 proviso. but to hold that once the
second proviso is properly applied and clause (2) of Article
311 excluded, Article 14 will step in to take the place of
clause (2) would be to nullify the effect of the opening
words of the second proviso and thus frustrate the intention
of the	makers of the Constitution. The second proviso is
based on public policy	 and is	 in public interest and for
public good and the Constitution - makers who inserted it in Article 311(2) were the best persons to decide whether such
an exclusionary provision should be there and the situations
in which this provision should apply. In this connection, it must be	 remembered that a
government servant is not wholly without any opportunity.
Rules made under the proviso to Article 309 or under Acts
referable to that Article generally provide for a right of
appeal except in those	 cases where the order of dismissal,
removal or reduction in rank is passed by the President or
the Governor of a State because they	 being	the highest
Constitutional functionaries, there can be no 239 higher authority to which an appeal can lie from an order
passed by one of them. Thus,	 where	the second proviso
applies, though there is no prior opportunity to a
government servant to defend himself against	the charges
made against him he has the opportunity to show in an
appeal filed by him that the	charges made against him are
not true. This would be a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of natural justice. In Maneka Gandhi 's case and
in Liberty Oil Mills and others v. Union of India and others [1984] 3 S.C.C. 465 the right to make a representation
after an action was taken was	 held to be a sufficient
remedy, and an appeal	is a much wider and more effective
remedy than a right of making a representation. In support	 of the	 contention that even	 though	 the
second proviso	to Article 311(2) excludes any right of
hearing, such a right	is none	 the less available under Article 14 , reliance was placed on behalf of the government
servants upon the case of Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of
India [1970] 3 S.C.R. 530. In our opinion, this reliance is
misplaced. One of the questions which arose in that case was
the correctness	 of the	 majority view in A.K.Gopalan v. The
State of Madras [1950]	 S.C.R. 88. In Gopalan's case it was
held by	 the majority that the	 law of preventive detention
did not have to satisfy the combined test of Articles 19 and 21. According to the majority view, it was the form of the
State action which would determine which Article in	 the
Chapter on fundamental Rights	would be attracted, and that
in respect of preventive detention Article 21 protected
substantive rights by requiring a procedure and Article 22 laid down the minimum rules of procedure	 which	even
Parliament could not abrogate or overlook. Fazal Ali, J., in
his dissenting	 judgment, however, took the view	that
preventive detention was a direct violation of a sub-clause (d) of	 clause (1) of Article 19 ,	 even if a narrow
construction were to be placed upon that sub-clause, and a
law relating to preventive detention was, therefore. subject
to such	 limited judicial review as was permitted by clause
(5) of Article 19. In R.Cooper's case the majority view in Gopalan 's case	was overruled. In Sambbu Nath Sarkar v. The
State of West Bengal & Ors. [1974]	1 S.C.R. 1, after
referring to both these cases, this Court observed (at page 24) : In Hardhan Saha and another v. The State of West Bengal
and others [1975] 1 S.C.R. 832, this Court held that a law
which provided	for preventive	detention was to be tested
with regard to its reasonableness with reference to Article 19. This view was reaffirmed in Khudiram Das v. The State of
West Bengal and Others [1975]	 2 S.C.R. 832. All these
decisions were	again examined	in Maneka Gandhi 's Case. In
that case, an order under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 10 of	the Passports	Act, 1967, impounding	 the
petitioner's passport was impugned inter alia on the ground
that it	 violated the petitioner's Fundamental	 Right under
sub-clauses (a)	 and (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 and Article 21 and also under Article 14 because it was made in
violation of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as
the petitioner	had not	 been heard before these impugned
order was passed. After referring to	various	 cases	Beg,
C.J., said (at page 648) : The question in Gopalan 's case and Cooper 's case was whether
particular Articles guaranting certain Fundamental Rights 241 operated exclusively without having any inter-relation with
any other Article in the Chapter on Fundamental Rights. This
is not	the question before us. Neither Article 19 or 21
excludes the operation of the other Articles in Part III of
the Constitution. Where however, an Article in	 the
Constitution expressly	excludes the application of certain
Fundamental Rights, the view taken in Cooper 's case and the
other cases which followed it, namely, that the Articles in
the Chapter on Fundamental	Rights	do not	 operate in
isolation, cannot apply. Article 13 invalidates any	 law
which violates any of the Fundamental Rights. Article 31A(1) provides that "Notwithstanding anything contained in article
13 , no law providing for ..... shall be deemed to be void on
the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or
abridges any of the rights conferred	by article 14 and article 19". Under Article 31B , none of the Acts	 and
Regulations specified	 in the Ninth schedule to	 the
Constitution nor any of the provisions thereof are to be
deemed to be void on the ground that such Act, Regulation or
provision is inconsistent with or takes away or abridges any
of the	rights conferred by any provisions of Part	III. Article	 31C provides	 that	 "Notwithstanding anything
contained in Article 13 , no law giving effect to the policy
of the	State towards securing . . . shall be deemed to be
void on	 the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes
away or	 abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14 or article 19 . . . ". Gan it then be contended in face of
these express provisions in the Constitution that none the
less Article 14 will apply to	 the provisions of a	 law
specified in Article 31A(1) or 31B or 31C? Clause(2) of Article 311 is an express statement of what the right of a
fair hearing guaranteed by Article 14 would require and by
the opening words of the second proviso to that clause that
right is expressly taken away, and R.C.Cooper's case cannot
be invoked to reintroduce that right on the ground that it
flows by implication from Article 14. If the contention of
the petitioner	that in	 all cases there must be a right of
hearing before an order is made to a person's prejudice were
correct, the result would be startling and anomalous. For
instance inspite of Article 21 & 22 no person can be taken
in preventive detention unless	 he has	 been first given an
opportunity of	showing cause against the proposed action.
Results such as these would make a mockery of the provisions
of the Constitution. The majority view in Gopalan's case was buried in
K.C.Cooper's case; its burial	service was read in Sambhu
Nath Sarkar v. The State of West Bengal and others, Hardhan
Saha and another v. The State of West Bengal and others and Khudiram Das v. The
State of West Bengal & Others. and its funeral oration was
delivered in Maneka Gandhi 's case. Let us hope and pray that
the ghost of that majority view does not at some future time
rise from its grave and stand, clanking its chains, seeking
to block the onward march of	 our country to progress,
prosperity and	the establishment of a	 Welfare State.	 But
none the less what	 was buried was the	 theory of
exclusiveness of each Fundamental Right operating separately
and without having any inter-relation with other Fundamental
Rights. The decisions in R.C.Cooper's case and the other
cases which followed it, however, will not apply where a
Fundamental Rights (including the audi alteram partem rule
comprehended within the guarantee	of Article 14 ) is
expressly excluded by the Constitution itself. Here, we must
not forget the warning	 given	by Megarry, J.,in Houslow
London Borough Council v. Tickenhan Garden Developments Ltd.
that the principles of	 natural justice must	be confined
within their proper limits and not allowed to run wild. The
concept of natural justice is a magnificent thoroughbred on
which this nation gallops forwards towards its proclaimed
and let	 us pray its destines	goal of "JUSTICE, social,
economic and political." This	 thoroughbred must not be
allowed to turn into a wild and unruly horse, careering off
where it lists, unsaddling its rider,	 and bursting	into
fields where the sign "no pasaran" is put up. Service Rules and the Second Proviso -	Challappan's
Case
 Rules made	 under the proviso to Article 309 or under
Acts referable	to that	 Article very often reproduced in
whole or in part the provisions of the second proviso to Article 311(2) either in the same or substantially the same
language or with certain variations.	Such variations at
times confer	or have been	 interpreted to confer an
opportunity of	hearing to a government servant which is
excluded by the second proviso. Three such rules	 are
involved in the matters before us, namely, Rule 14 of the
Railway	 Servants (Discipline	 and Appeal)	Rules,	1968
(hereinafter referred to in short as the "Railway Servants
Rules ), Rule 19 of the	 Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules,	1965
(hereinafter referred to in short as	the "Civil Services
Rules") and Rule 37 of the Central Industrial Security Force
Rules, 1969 (hereinafter referred to in short as "the CISF
Rules"). It was submitted on	 behalf	 of the government
servants that though an Act or rule restricting or taking
away any safe guard provided by clauses (1)	and (2) of Article 311 would be void, different	considerations would
apply when such an Act or rule liberalizes the exclusionary
effect of the second proviso. It is not possible to accept this submission.	 The
opening words of Article 309 make that Article expressly
"Subject to the provisions of this Constitution". Rules made
under the proviso to Article 309 or under Acts referable to
that Article must, therefore, be made subject to	 the
provisions of the Constitution	 if they are to be valid. Article 310(1) which embodies	the pleasure doctrine is a
provision contained in the Constitution. Therefore, rules
made under the proviso to Article	309 or	 under	Acts
referable to that Article are subject to Article 310(1) By
the opening words of Article 310(1) the pleasure doctrine
contained therein operates "Except as expressly provided by
this Constitution". Article 311 is an express provision of
the Constitution. Therefore, rules made under the proviso to Article 309 or under Acts referable to Article 309 would be
subject	 both to Article 310(1) and Article 311. This
position was pointed out by Subba Rao, J., as he then was,
in his	separate but concurring judgment in Moti Ram Deka's
case at	 page 734, namely, that rules under Article 309 are
subject to the pleasure doctrine and the pleasure doctrine
is itself subject to the two limitations imposed thereon by Article 311. Thus, as	pointed out in that case, any rule
which contravenes clause (1) or clause (2) of Article 311 would be invalid. Where, however the second proviso applies,
the only restriction upon the exercise of the pleasure of
the President or the	Governor of a	 State	is the	 one
contained in clause(1) of Article 311. For an Act or a rule
to provide that in a case where the second proviso applies
any of	the safeguards	excluded by that proviso will be
available to a Government servant would amount to such Act
or rule	 impinging upon	 the pleasure of the President or
Governor, as the case	may be,	 and would be void as being
unconstitutional. It is, however, a well-settled rule of
construction of	 statutes that where two interpretations are
possible, one	 of which would preserve and save	 the
constitutionality of the particular	statutory provision
while the other would	render it unconstitutional and void,
the one	 which saves and preserves its constitutionality
should	 be adopted	and the other rejected.	Such
constitutionality can be preserved by interpreting	that
statutory provision as directory and not mandatory. It is
equally well-settled that where a statutory provision is
directory, the	 courts cannot interfere to	 compel	 the
performance or	punish breach of the duty created by such
provision and disobedience of	 such provision would	 not
entail any invalidity - see Craies on Statute Law, Seventh
Edition, at page 229.	 In such a case breach of	such
statutory provisions would not	 furnish any cause of action
or ground of challenge	 to a government servant for at the
very threshold,	 such cause of action or ground of challenge
would be barred by the second proviso to Article 311(2). On behalf	of the	government servants support for the
above contention raised by them was sought to be derived
from Challappan's case. Bearing in mind what has been stated
above, we will, therefore, now examine Challapan's case.
Before, however, we come to that case it would be convenient
to refer to the observations in M. Gopala Krishna Naidu's
case, because it was by reason of the conflict between those
observations and what was held in Challappan's case	that
these matters	 have all some to be decided by	this
Constitution Bench. M.Gopala Krishna Naidu 's case was not
directly a case under the second proviso to Article 311(2). In that	 case the appellant, who was an overseer in	 the
Public Works Department of the Central Provinces and Berar
Government, was suspended from service in 1947	 and
prosecuted under section 161 of the	Indian	Penal Code.
Ultimately, on	orders from the High Court, the prosecution
was dropped.	The appellant	was also exonerated in a
departmental inquiry	held against him. Thereafter	 the
Government by an order	 held that the charges	 against the
Appellant had not been	 proved beyond	reasonable doubt and
the suspension of the appellant and the departmental inquiry
"were not wholly unjustified". It accordingly directed that
the appellant should be reinstated in	 service with effect
from the date of the said order and retired from that date,
he having already attained the age of superannuation, and
that the entire period	 of absence from duty should be
treated as period spent on duty under rule 54(5) of	 the
Fundamental Rules for purposes of pension only, but that he
should not be allowed	any pay	 beyond what he had actually
received or what was allowed to him by way of subsistence
allowance during the period of suspension. The appellant's
writ petition was dismissed by the High Court. In appeal a
three Judge Bench of this Court allowed the	appeal.	 The
court held that rule 54 of the	 Fundamental Rules
contemplated a	duty to	 act in	 accordance with the basic
concept	 of justice and fair	 play,	and the authority,
therefore had to afford a reasonable	opportunity to	 the
appellant to show cause why clauses (3) and (5) of rule 54
should not be applied and at this not having been done, the
order was invalid. While discussing the scope of rule 54 of
the Fundamental	 Rules the Court observed as	follows	 (at
page, 358-59) : Challapan's case decided three appeals against a common
judgment of the High Court of	 Rajasthan allowing the writ
petitions filed	 by three railway servants. Challappan, the
respondent 246 in one	of these appeals, was	a railway-pointsman. He was
arrested at Olavakkot Railway Station platform	 for
disorderly, drunken and indecent behaviour and	 was
prosecuted and	convicted under section 51(a) of the Kerala
Police Act. Instead of	 sentencing him, the sub-magistrate,
Palghat, released him on probation under section of	 the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 . Thereafter he was removed
from service	by the	 disciplinary	authority of	 the
Department, without holding any inquiry, on the basis of his
conviction in the said	 criminal case. The order of removal
from service was made	under clause (i) of rule 14 of the
Railway Servants Rules. The Kerala High Court held that as
no penalty was imposed	 upon him, clause (i) of rule 14 did
not in terms apply, and allowed his writ petition. So far as
the other two railway	employees were	concerned, one	 was
convicted under section 3 of the Railway Property (Unlawful
Possession) Act, 1966, and the other	under section 420 of
the Indian Penal Code. Both	of them were	released on
probation and were similarly removed from railway service. The Railway Servants Rules have	 been made by	 the
President in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso
to Article 309. Rule 6 specifies the penalties which can be
imposed upon a railway servant. These penalties are divided
into minor penalties and major penalties. Major penalties
include	 removal from	 service which is not to be a
disqualification for future employment under the Government
or railway administration and	dismissal from service which
is ordinarily to be a disqualification for future employment
under the Government or railway administration. Under sub-
rule (1) of Rule 7, the President may impose any of the
penalties specified in Rule 6 on any railway servant. Sub
rule (2) of Rule 7 states that without prejudice to	 the
provisions of sub-rule (1), any of the penalties specified
in Rule	 6 may	be imposed on	a railway servant by	 the
authorities specified in Schedules, I, II and III to the
Railway Servants Rules. Rules 9 and 10 prescribe a detailed
procedure for	 imposing major penalties while Rule 11
prescribes the	 procedure for	 imposing minor penalties.
Originally, sub-rule (5) of Rule 10 required that a notice
be given to a	railway servant informing him of the penalty
proposed to be imposed upon him	and giving him an
opportunity of	making	a representation on the proposed
penalty on the basis of the evidence adduced	 during	 the
inquiry held under Rule 9. The whole of that sub-rule was
substituted by	the Railway Servants (Discipline and Appeal)
(Third Amendment) Rules, 1978,	 to bring sub-rule (5) in
conformity with	 clause (2) of Article 311 as amended by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976 . It may be
mentioned that on the respective dates of the orders 247 impugned in Challappan's case	the original sub-rule (5) of
Rule 10 formed part of the Railway Servants Rules and clause
(2) of Article 311 in force was that clause as amended by
the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act,	 1963 .	This
However, does not make	 any difference	 to the	 point which
falls to be decided. Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules provides as
	 follows : the disciplinary authority may consider the circumstances of
the case and make such orders thereon as it deems fit;
	 Provided that	 the Commission	 shall be consulted,
	 where such consultation is necessary, before any
	 orders are made in any case under this rule."
Clause (b) of Rule 2 of the Railway Servants Rules defines
the word "Commission" as meaning the "Union Public Service
Commission." Rule 17 of the Railway Servants	Rules sets out	 the
orders against	which no appeal lies.	Under that rule, no
appeal inter alia lies against any	order made by	 the
President. Under Rule 18, subject to the provisions of Rule
17, an	appeal inter alia lies against an order imposing any
of the	penalties specified in Rule 6, whether made by the
disciplinary authority	or by any appellate or reviewing
authority. Rule 20 prescribes a period of limitation 248 for filing an appeal.	The appellate authority is, however,
conferred the power to	 condone the delay in	 filing	 the
appeal if it is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient
cause for not preferring the appeal. Rule 22 (2) provides as
follows : The second	 proviso to Rule 25(1) provides for a period
of limitation for initiating any revisional proceedings by
an appellate authority other	 than the President or a
revising authority mentioned in item (v) xxxxx in that list
of authorities	 set out above. In	the case of other
authorities, the power of revision is	 not subject to any
time-limit. Rule 25-A confers	power upon the President at
any time either on his own motion or otherwise to review any
order passed under the	 Railway Servants Rules when any new
material or evidence which could not be produced or was not
available at the time of passing the order under review and
which has the effect of changing the nature of the case has
come or	 has been brought to his notice. Rules 25 and 25-A
were substituted by the Railway Servants (Discipline	 and
Appeal)(First Amendment) Rules, 1983, for the original Rule
25 which provided for	a view	in somewhat similar terms as
the present Rule 25. In Challappan's case the Kerala High Court allowed the
writ petitions filed before it solely on the ground that the
orders of the Magistrate releasing the concerned railway
servants on probation	did not amount to imposition of
penalty as contemplated by Rule 14 of the Railway Servants
Rules. Reversing that view this Court	 held that the word
"penalty" in clause (i) of Rule 14 of the Railway Servants
Rules does not refer to a sentence awarded by the Court to
the accused on his conviction but it merely indicates the
nature	of the penalty impossible by the	disciplinary
authority if the delinquent employee has been found guilty
of conduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal
charge. The Court observed (at pages 789-790) : The Court pointed out	that clause (i) of Rule 14 merely
sought to incorporate the principle embodied in clause (a)
of the	second proviso.	 The Court in	the course of	 its
judgment reproduced the provisions of clause (2) of Article
311 alongwith clause (a) to the proviso thereto, at that
time clause (2) of Article 311 in force being that clause as
amended by the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 ,
that is, clause (2)	 prior	 to its amendment by	 the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976 , and	 the
proviso thereto	 being the same as the second	 proviso to
clause (2) as amended	by the Constitution (Forty-second
Amendment) Act .	 The Court then pointed out that there were
three stages in a departmental inquiry under Article 311(2) the third being the stage before actually imposing	 the
penalty in which final	 notice to the delinquent employee
should be given to show cause	 why the penalty proposed
against him be not imposed on	 him. It then	stated	that
clause (a) of the proviso (now the second proviso) Article
311(2) , however, completely dispensed	with all the three
stages of a departmental inquiry when an employee	 was
convicted on a criminal charge because the employee already
had in the criminal trial a full and complete opportunity to
contest the allegations against him and to make out	 his
defence. The Court pointed out that	clause	(a) of	 the
proviso (now the second proviso) is	merely	an enabling
provision and does not enjoin or confer a mandatory duty on
the disciplinary authority to	pass an	 order of dismissal,
removal or reduction in rank the moment and	employee is
convicted. The Court then considered the extent and ambit of
the last part of Rule 14, namely, the	phrase	"the
disciplinary authority may consider the circumstances of the
case and make such orders there on as it deems fit" and
stated its conclusions as follows (at pages 795-97) : Mr. S.N.Prasad appearing for the appellants
	 submitted that it may not be necessary for	 the
	 disciplinary authority to hear the	accused	 and
	 consider the	matter where no provision like rule
	 14 exists, because in 253 such cases the Government can, in the exercise of
	 its executive powers, dismiss, remove or reduce in
	 rank any employee who has been convicted of a
	 criminal charge by force of proviso (a) to Article
	 311(2) of the Constitution.	In other words, the
	 argument was	that to	 cases where proviso (a) to Article 311(2) applies a departmental inquiry is
	 completely dispensed	with and the	disciplinary
	 authority can on the doctrine of pleasure
	 terminate	the services	of the	 delinquent
	 employee. We	however, refrain from expression any
	 opinion on this aspect of the matter because the
	 cases of all the three respondents before us are
	 cases which clearly fall within rule 14 of	 the
	 rules of 1968 where	they have been removed from
	 service without complying with the last part of
	 rule 14 of the Rules of 1968 as indicated above.
	 In none of	 the cases has the	disciplinary
	 authority either considered the circumstances or
	 heard the delinquent	 employees on	the limited
	 point as to the nature and extent of the penalty
	 to be	 imposed if at all. On the other hand in all
	 these	 cases	 the disciplinary authority	 has
	 proceeded to	 pass the order of removal	from
	 service straightaway	 on the basis of	 the
	 conviction of	 the delinquent employees by	 the
	 criminal courts." (Emphasis supplied)
 So far as Challappan's Case is concerned, it is not
possible to find any fault either with the view that neither
clause (a) of the second proviso to Article	 311(2) nor
clause (i) of Rule 14 of the Railway	 Servants Rules is
mandatory or with the considerations which have been set out
in the judgment as being the considerations to be taken into
account by the disciplinary authority	 before	 imposing a
penalty	 upon a delinquent government servant. Where a
situation envisaged in one of the three clauses of	 the
second proviso	to Article 311(2) or of an analogous service
rule arises, it is not mandatory that the major penalty of
dismissal, removal or reduction in rank should be imposed
upon the concerned government servant. The penalty which can
be imposed may be some other major penalty or even a minor
penalty depending upon the facts and	circumstances of the
case. In order to arrive at a decision as to which penalty
should be imposed, the	 disciplinary authority will have to
take into consideration the various factors	set out in
Challappan's case. It is, however, not possible to agree
with approach adopted in Challappan's case in considering
Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules in isolation 254 and apart from the second proviso to Article	 311(2) , nor
with the interpretation placed by	 it upon the	word
"consider" in the last	 part of Rule 14. Neither Rule 14 of
the Railways Servants Rules nor a similar rule in other
service rules can be looked at apart from the second proviso
to Article 311(2). The authority of a particular officer to
act as	a disciplinary	authority and to impose an penalty
upon a	government servant is derived from rules made under
the proviso to Article 309 or under an Act referable to that
Article. As pointed out earlier, these rules cannot impinge
upon the pleasure of the President or the Governor of a
State, as the case may be, because they are	 subject to Article 310(1). Equally, they cannot restrict the safeguards
provided by clauses (1) and (2) of Article 311 as such a
restriction would be in violation of the provisions of those
clauses. In the same way,	 they cannot restrict	 the
exclusionary impact of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) because that would be	to impose a restriction upon	 the
exercise of pleasure under Article 310(1) which has become
free of	 the restrictions placed upon	it by clause (2) of Article 311 by reason of the operation of the second proviso
to that clause. The only cases in which a government servant
can be	dismissed, removed or reduced	in rank	 by way of
punishment without holding an inquiry contemplated by
clause(2) of Article 311 are the three cases mentioned in
the second proviso to that clause. A rule which provides for
any other case in which any of these three penalties can be
imposed	 would	 be unconstitutional.	 Service rules	 may
reproduce the provisions of the second proviso authorizing
the disciplinary authority to	dispense with	the inquiry
contemplated by clause (2) of Article 311 in the three cases
mentioned in the second proviso to that clause or any one or
more of	 them. Such a rule, however, cannot be valid	 and
constitutional without	reference to the second proviso to Article 311(2) and cannot be read apart from it. Thus, while
the source of authority of a particular officer to act as a
disciplinary authority	and to	dispense with the inquiry is
derived from the service rules, the source of his power to
dispense with the inquiry is derived from the second proviso
to Article 311 (2) and not from any service rules. There is
a well-established distinction between the source of
authority to exercise a power and the source of such power.
The Court in Challappan's case was, therefore, in error in
interpreting Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules by itself
and not in conjunction with the second proviso (at that time
the only proviso) to Article 311(2). It appears that in
Challappan's case the Court felt that	 the addition of the
words "the disciplinary authority	may consider	 the
circumstances of the case and make such orders 255 thereon as it deems fit" warranted an interpretation of Rule
14 different from that to be placed upon the second proviso.
This is also not correct. It is true that the second proviso
does not contain these	 words but from this it does	 not
follow that when acting under the second proviso,	 the
disciplinary authority	should not consider the facts	 and
circumstances of the case or make an order not warranted by
them. It is also not possible to accept the interpretation
placed	upon the word	 "consider" in	 Challappan's case.
According to the view taken in that case, a consideration of
the circumstances of the case cannot be unilateral but must
be after hearing the delinquent government servant. If such
were the correct meaning of the word "consider", it would
render this part of Rule 14 unconstitutional as restricting
the full exclusionary operation of the second proviso. The
word "consider", however, does	 not bear the meaning placed
upon it in Challappan's case. The word "consider" is used in
Rule 14	 as a transitive verb.	 The meaning of the	word
"consider" as so used	 is given in	the Oxford English
Dictionary as "To contemplate	mentally, fix the mind upon;
to think over, meditate or reflect on, bestow attentive
thought upon, given heed to, take note of."	The relevant
definition of the word	 "consider" given in Webster's Third
New International Dictionary is "to reflect on: think about
with a degree of care of caution". Below this definition are
given the synonyms of	the word "consider", these synonyms
being "contemplate, study, weigh, revolve,	excogitate".
While explaining the exact different shades of meaning in
this group of words, Webster's Dictionary proceeds to state
as under with respect to the word "consider". It is thus obvious that the word "consider" in its ordinary
and natural sense is not capable of the meaning assigned to
it in Challappan's case. The consideration under Rule 14 of
what penalty should be	 imposed upon a delinquent railway
servant	 must,	 therefore, be	 ex parte and where	 the
disciplinary authority	comes to the conclusion that	 the
penalty which the facts and	circumstances of the	case
warrant is either of dismissal or removal or reduction in
rank, no opportunity of showing cause against such penalty
proposed to be imposed	 upon him can be afforded to	 the
delinquent government servant. Undoubtedly, the disciplinary
authority must	 have	regard	 to all the	 facts	 and
circumstances of the case as set out in Challapan's case. As
pointed out 256 earlier, considerations of fair play and justice requiring a
hearing to be given to a government servant with respect to
the penalty to be imposed upon him do not enter into the
picture when the second proviso to Article 311(2) comes into
play and the same would be the position in the case of a
service rule reproducing the second proviso in whole or in
part and whether the language used is identical with that
used in	 the second proviso or	 not. There are a number of
orders which are of necessity passed	without hearing	 the
party who may be affected by them. For instance, courts of
law can	 and often do pass ex parte ad interim orders on the
application of	a plaintiff, petitioner or appellant without
issuing any notice to the other side or hearing him. Can it,
therefore, be contended that the judge or judges, as the
case may be, did not apply his or their mind while passing
such an order? The Decision in Challappan's case is, therefore	 not
correct with respect to the interpretation placed by it upon
Rule 14	 of the Railway Servants Rules and particularly upon
the word "consider" occurring in the last part of that rule
and interpreting Rule 14 by itself and not in conjunction
with the second proviso to Article 311(2). Before parting
with Challappan's case, we may, also	point out that	case
never held the field. The judgment	 in that case	 was
delivered on September 15, 1975, and	it was	reported in
[1976] 1 S.C.R. at pages 783ff. Hardly was that	case
reported then in the next group of appeals in which the same
question was	raised,	 namely, the three Civil Appeals
mentioned earlier, an order of reference to a larger Bench
was made on	November 18,	1976.	The correctness of
Challappan's case was, therefore, doubted from the	very
beginning. The next service rule which falls for consideration in
these matters is Rule	19 of the Civil Services Rules. The
Civil Services	Rules are also made under the	 proviso to Article	 309. The scheme of these	 rules	 so far as
disciplinary proceedings are concerned	 is very similar to
that of	 the Railway Servants Rules. Rule 11 specifies the
penalties which	 can be	 imposed on a	government servant.
These penalties	 are divided into minor penalties and major
penalties. Clauses (i) to (iv) of that rule specify what the
minor penalties are while clauses (v) to (viii) specify what
the major penalties	are. The major penalties include
compulsory retirement,	removal from service which is not to
be a disqualification	 for future employment under	 the
Government and dismissal from service which is ordinarily to
be a disqualification	 for future employment under	 the
Government. Rules 14 and 15 257 prescribe the procedure to be followed where a major penalty
is to be imposed while Rule 16 prescribes the procedure for
imposing a minor penalty. Previously, under sub-rule (4) of
Rule 15 the government servant was also to be given a notice
of the	penalty proposed to be	 imposed upon	him and an
opportunity of	making representation with respect to such
proposed penalty. However, by Government of India, Ministry
of Home	 Affairs (Deptt. of Personnel & Admn. Reforms)
Notification No. 11012/2/77 -	Ests. dated August 18, 1978,
sub-rule (4) was substituted by a new sub-rule to bring it
in conformity with the	 amendment made	 in clause (2) of Article 311 by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment)
Act , and the opportunity to show cause against the proposed
penalty was done away with. Rule 19 Provides as follows
	 "19. Special procedure in certain cases. Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 14 to
	 rule 18- (i) where any penalty is imposed on Government
	 servant on the ground of conduct which has led to
	 his conviction on a criminal charge, or (ii) where the disciplinary authority is satisfied
	 for reasons to be recorded by it in writing that
	 it is not reasonably practicable	to hold an
	 inquiry in the manner provided in these rules, or, (iii) where the President is satisfied that in the
	 interest of the security of the State, it is not
	 expedient to	 hold any inquiry in	 the manner
	 provided in these rules,
	 the disciplinary authority	 may consider	 the
	 circumstances of the case and make	such orders
	 thereon as it deems fit; Provided that	 the Commission	 shall be consulted,
	 where such consultation is necessary, before any
	 orders are made in any case under this rule."
The word "Commission" is defined by clause (d) of Rule 2 as
meaning "The Union Public Service Commission". Under Rule
22, no	appeal	is lies against any	order made by	 the
President or orders 258 of certain nature specified in that rule. Subject to the
provisions of Rule 22,	 Rule 23 provided for	a right of
appeal. Rule 25 provides for a period of limitation	 for
filing an appeal but the appellate authority is conferred
the power to condone the delay in filing the appeal if it is
satisfied that	the appellant had sufficient cause for not
preferring the	appeal	in time. Rule	 27(2)	provides as
follows: It will be noticed that the language of Rule 19 of the
Civil Services	Rules is identical with that of Rule 14 of
the Railway 259 Servants Rules	and the	 interpretation of Rule 19 of	 the
Civil Services	Rules would be the same as that placed by us
upon Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules. The rule which now remains to be considered is Rule 37
of the	CISF Rules. The CISF Rules have been made by the
Central Government in pursuance of the power conferred by section 22(1) of the Central Industrial Security Force Act,
1968 (Act No. 50 of 1968) (hereinafter referred to in short
as "the CISF Act "). Section 22(1) of the CISF Act confers
upon the Central Government the power	 to make rules	 for
carrying out the purposes of that Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 22 inter alia provides as follows: General, Chief Security Officers	or Security
	 Officers of the Force. (2) The Inspector-General	 and every other
	 supervisory officer so appointed shall have, and
	 may exercise,	 such powers and authority as is
	 provided by or under this Act." Sections 8 and 9 provided as follows: or
	 X	 X		X	 X." Rule 32	 specifies what are described as "petty punishments" It will be noticed that	Rule 37, except the	last
paragraph thereof, is in pari materia	 with Rule 14 of the
Railway Servants Rules and Rule 19 of the Civil Services
Rules with this difference that a provision akin to clause (iii) of Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules and clause (iii) of Rule 19 of the Civil Services Rules is not to be
found in Rule 37 of the CISF Rules. The same interpretation
as placed by us on the word "consider" occurring in Rule 14
of the	Railway Servants Rules and Rule 19 of the Civil
Services Rules	must, therefore, be placed upon the	word
"consider" in Rule 37 of the CISF Rules. The last paragraph
of Rule	 37 of the CISF Rules is peculiar to itself and does
not find a place either in the said Rule 14 or the said Rule 19. It is clumsily worded and makes little sense. To provide
that a	member of the CIS Force who has been convicted to
rigorous imprisonment	 on a	criminal charge "shall be
dismissed from service" and at the same time to provide that
"only a notice shall be given to the party charged proposing
the punishment of dismissal for his having been convicted to
rigorous imprisonment and asking him to explain as to why
the proposed punishment of dismissal should not be imposed",
is a contradiction in	terms, If either of these provisions
were taken as mandatory, it would be void as violating the
second	proviso	 to Article 311(2) because	the penalty
contemplated by	 the second proviso to Article 311(2) is not
the penalty of	 dismissal only but also of	 removal or
reduction in rank, and	 to make it mandatory	to issue a
notice	to show cause	 against the proposed	 penalty of
dismissal would	 equally violate the second proviso because
it would whittle down the exclusionary effect of the second
proviso. Therefore, both these provisions in the	last
paragraph of Rule 37 must be	read as	 directory and	 not
mandatory, not	only to	 make sense out of them but also to
preserve their constitutionality. So read, a breach of these
provisions would not afford any cause of action to a member
of the CIS Force. A conspectus of the above service rules and the CISF
Act shows that a government servant who has been dismissed,
removed or reduced in	 rank without	holding	 an inquiry
because his case falls under one of the three clauses of the
second proviso	to Article 311(2) or a provision of	 the
service rules analogous thereto is not wholly without a
remedy. He has a remedy by way of an appeal, revision or in
some cases also by way of review. Sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of	the first proviso of Rule 25(1) of	the Railway
Servants Rules	expressly provides that in the case of a
major penalty where an	 inquiry has not been held,	 the
revising authority shall itself hold such inquiry or direct
such inquiry to be held. This is, however, made subject to
the provisions of Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules. The
other service rules referred to above not appear to have a
similar provision nor does the Railway Servants Rules make
the same provision in the case of an appeal. Having regard,
however, to the factors to be	 taken into consideration by
the appellate authority which	are set	 out in	 the service
rules referred	 to above a	provision similar to	that
contained in sub-clause (ii) of clause(c) of the first
proviso to Rule 25(1)	of the Railway Servants Rules should
be read	 and imported into provisions relating to appeals in
the Railway Servants Rules and in the other service rules
and also in the provisions relating to revision in the other
service rules.	This would, of course,	 be subject to	 the
second proviso	to Article 311(2) , Rule 14 of	 the Railway
Servants Rules	Rule 19 of the Civil Services Rules and Rule
37 of the CISF	 Rules. Thus, such a right to	 an inquiry
cannot be availed of where clause (a) to the second proviso
of Article 311(2) or a similar provision in any service rule
applies in order to enable a government servant to contend
that he was wrongly convicted by the criminal court. He can,
however, contend that in the facts and circumstances of the
case, the penalty imposed upon him is too severe or is
excessive. He can also	 show that he is not in fact	 the
government servant who was convicted on a criminal charge
and that it is	 a case	 of mistaken identity. Where it is a
case falling under clause(b) of the second proviso or a
provision in the service rules analogous thereto,	 the
dispensing with	 the inquiry by the disciplinary authority
was the	 result of the situation prevailing at that time. If
the situation has changed when the appeal or	 revision is
heard, the government servant	can claim to have an inquiry
held in	 which he can establish that he is not guilty of the
charges on which he has been dismissed, removed or reduced
in rank. He, however, cannot by reason of the provisions of
clause(3) of Article 311 contend that the inquiry 265 was wrongly dispensed with and it was reasonably practicable
to hold	 an inquiry because by	 the said clause (3)	 the
decision on this point	 of the	 disciplinary authority	 has
been made final. So	far as	 clause	 (c) is concerned,
dispensing with the inquiry depends upon the satisfaction of
the President or the Governor, as the case may be, that in
the interest of the security	 of the State	 it is	 not
expedient to hold an inquiry. In such a case, an order
imposing penalty can, however	be passed by a disciplinary
authority because in such a case the President or	 the
Governor, as the case	may be,	 can direct the disciplinary
authority to consider the facts of the case and impose the
appropriate penalty without holding any inquiry. Clause (iii) of Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules and clause (iii) of Rule 19 of the Civil Services Rules envisage this
being done. In such a case the satisfaction that the inquiry
should be dispensed with as not being expedient in	 the
interest of the security of the State would be that of the
President or the Governor, the selection of one of the three
penalties mentioned in Article	 311(2) as being the proper
penalty	 to be imposed would be of the	disciplinary
authority. The satisfaction of the President or the Governor
cannot	be challenged	 in appeal or revision but	 the
government servant can in appeal or revision ask for an
inquiry to be held into his alleged conduct unless even at
the time of the appeal or revision, the interest of	 the
security of the State	makes it inexpedient to hold such an
inquiry. Of course, no	 such right would be available to a
government servant where the order imposing penalty has been
made by	 the President	or the	Governor of a State, as the
case may be. Executive Instructions and the Second Proviso
 In	 the course of the arguments certain executive
instructions issued by the Government of India were referred
to and	relied upon on behalf of the government servants. It
is unnecessary to deal with these instructions in detail. At
the highest they contain the opinion	of the Government of
India on the scope and effect	 of the	 second	 proviso to Article 311(2) and cannot be binding	upon the Court with
respect to the interpretation	it should place upon	that
proviso. To the extent that	 they may liberalized	 the
exclusionary effect of the second proviso they can only be
taken as directory. Executive	instruction stand on a lower
footing than a statutory rule for they do not have the force
of a statutory rule. If an Act or a rule cannot alter or
liberalized the	 exclusionary effect of the second proviso,
executive instructions can do so even much less. Omission to Mention the Relevant Clause of the Second
Proviso or the Relevant Service Rule in the Impugned Orders
 Some of the orders impugned before us refer only to one
or the	other of the three clauses of the second proviso to Article	 311(2) for dispensing with	an inquiry without
referring to the relevant service rule, some refer both to a
clause of the second proviso and the relevant service rule,
while the others refer	 only to the relevant	service rule
without making	any mention of the particular clause of the
second proviso	which has been	 applied. The	question is
whether the omission to mention the particular clause of the
second proviso	or the	 relevant service rule makes	 any
difference. As pointed	 out earlier, the source of authority of a
particular officer to act as a disciplinary authority and to
dispense with the inquiry is derived from the service rules
while the source of	 his power to	 dispense with	 the
disciplinary inquiry is derived from the second proviso to Article 311(2). There cannot be an exercise	of a power
unless such power exists in law. If such power does	 not
exist in law, the purported exercise	of it would be an
exercise of a non-existent power and	would be void.	 The
exercise of a power is, therefore, always referable to the
source of such power and must be considered in conjunction
with it. The Court's attention in Challappan's Case was not
drawn to this settled	position in law and hence the error
committed by it in considering Rule	14 of	the Railway
Servants Rules by itself and without taking into account the
second proviso	to Article 311(2). It	is also well settled
that where a source of power	exists, the exercise of such
power is referable only to that source and not some other
source under which were that power exercised, the exercise
of such	 power would be invalid and without jurisdiction.
Similarly, if a source	 of power exists by reading together
two provisions, whether statutory or constitutional, and the
order refers to only one of them, the validity of the order
should be upheld by construing it as an order passed under
both those provisions. Further, even the mention of a wrong
provision or the omission to mention	the provision which
contains the source of	 power will not invalidate an order
where the source of such power exists. (See Dr. Ram Manohar
Lohia v. State of Bihar and others [1966] 1 S.C.R. 709,721
and The	 Municipal Corporation	of the	City of Ahmedabad v.
Ben Hiraben Manilal [1983] 2 S.C.R. 676,681. The omission to
mention in the impugned orders the relevant clause of the
second proviso	or the	 relevant service rule will	not,
therefore, have the effect of invalidating 267 the orders and the orders must be read as having been made
under the applicable clause of the second proviso to Article
311(2) read with the relevant	 service rule. It may be
mentioned that	in none of the matters before us has it been
contended that	the disciplinary authority which passed the
impugned order was not competent to do so. The Second Proviso - Clause (a)
 Not much remains to be said about clause (a) of the
second proviso	to Article 311(2). To recapitulate briefly,
where a disciplinary	 authority comes to know that a
government servant has been convicted on a criminal charge,
it must	 consider whether his conduct	which has led to his
conviction was	such as warrants the imposition of a penalty
and, if so, what that penalty should be. For that purpose it
will have to peruse the judgment of the criminal court and
consider all the facts and circumstances of the case and the
various factors set out in Challappan's case. This, however,
has to	be done	 by it	ex parte and by itself. Once	 the
disciplinary authority	 reaches the conclusion that	 the
government servant's conduct was such as to	require	 his
dismissal or removal from service or	reduction in rank he
must decide which of these three penalties should be imposed
on him.	 This too it has to do by itself and without hearing
the concerned	 government servant by reason of	 the
exclusionary effect of the second proviso. The disciplinary
authority must, however, bear in mind that a conviction on a
criminal charge	 does not automatically entail dismissal,
removal or reduction in rank of the concerned government
servant. Having	 decided which	of these three penalties is
required to be imposed, he has to pass the requisite order.
A government servant who is aggrieved by the penalty imposed
can agitate in appeal,	 revision or review, as the case may
be, that the penalty was too	severe or excessive and not
warranted by the facts and circumstances of the case. If it
is his	case that he is not the government servant who has
been in fact convicted, he can also agitate this question in
appeal,	 revision or	review.	 If he	 fails	in all	 the
departmental remedies and still wants to pursue the matter,
he can	invoke the court's power of judicial review subject
to the	court permitting it. If the court finds that he was
not in	fact the person convicted, it will strike down the
impugned order	and order him to be reinstated in service.
Where the court finds	that the penalty imposed by	 the
impugned order	is arbitrary or grossly excessive or out of
all proportion	to the offence committed or not warranted by
the facts and circumstances of the case or the requirements
of that 268 particular government service the court will	also strike
down the impugned order. Thus, in Shankar Dass v. Union of
India and another , [1985] 2 S.C.C. 358, this Court set aside
the impugned order of penalty on the ground that the penalty
of dismissal from service imposed upon the appellant	 was
whimsical and ordered his reinstatement in service with full
back wages. It is, however, not necessary that the Court
should always order reinstatement. The Court	can instead
substitute a penalty which in its opinion would be just and
proper in the circumstances of the case. The Second Proviso - Clause (b)
 The main thrust of the arguments as regards clause (b)
of the	second proviso	to Article 311(2) was that whatever
the situation	may be	 minimal inquiry or at least an
opportunity to	show cause against the	 proposed penalty is
always feasible	 and is	 required by law. The arguments with
respect to a minimal inquiry were founded on the basis of
the applicability of Article	14 and	 the principles of
natural	 justice and the arguments with respect to an
opportunity to	show cause against the proposed penalty were
in addition founded upon the decision in Challappan's case.
These contentions have already been dealt with and negatived
by us and we have further held that Challappan's case in so
far as	it held	 that a	 government servant should be heard
before imposing a penalty upon him was wrongly decided. The next	contention was	 that even if	 it is	 not
reasonably practicable	to hold	 an inquiry, a government
servant can be placed	under suspension until the situation
improves and it becomes possible to hold the inquiry. This
contention also	 cannot be accepted. Very often a situation
which makes it not reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry
is of the creation of	 the concerned	 government servant
himself or of himself	acting in concert with others or of
his associates.	 It can	 even be that he himself is not a
party to bringing about that situation. In all such cases
neither public interest nor public good requires that salary
or subsistence	allowance should be continued to be paid out
of the public exchequer to the concerned government servant.
It should also be borne in mind that	 in the	 case of a
serious situation which renders the holding of an inquiry
not reasonably practicable, it would be difficult to foresee
how long the situation	 will last and when normalcy would
return or be restored. It is impossible to draw the line as
to the	period of time	 for which the suspension should
continue and on the expiry of that period action should be
taken under clause (b) of the second proviso. Further, the exigencies of a situation may require	that
prompt action should be taken and suspending the government
servant cannot	serve the purpose. Sometimes	 not taking
prompt action may result in the trouble spreading and the
situation worsening and at times becoming uncontrolable. Not
taking prompt action may also be construed by the trouble-
makers and agitators as sign of weakness on the part of the
authorities and	 thus encourage them to step up the tempo of
their activities or agitation.	 It is true that when prompt
action is taken in order to prevent this happening, there is
an element of deterrence in it but that is an unavoidable
and necessary concomitance of such an action resulting from
a situation which is not of the creation of the authorities.
After all, clause (b)	 is not meant	 to be	 applied in
ordinary, normal situations but in such situations where is
not reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry. The condition precedent for the application of clause (b) is	the satisfaction of the disciplinary authority that
"it is	not reasonably	practicable to	 hold"	the inquiry
contemplated by clause (2) of Article 311. What is pertinent
to note is that the words	 used are "not reasonably
practicable" and not	"impracticable". According to	 the
Oxford English	Dictionary "practicable" means "Capable of
being put into practice, carried out	in action, effected,
accomplished, or done; feasible". Webster's Third	 New
International Dictionary defines the	 word "practicable"
inter alia as meaning	"possible to practice or perform : production of the written reasons. It was next submitted that though clause (b) of the
second proviso	excludes an inquiry into the charges	made
against a government servant, it does not exclude an inquiry
preceding it,	 namely, an inquiry	into whether	 the
disciplinary inquiry should be	 dispensed with	 or not, and
that in	 such a	 preliminary inquiry the government servant
should be given an opportunity of hearing by issuing to him
a notice to show cause why the inquiry should not be
dispensed with	 so as to enable him to	satisfy	 the
disciplinary authority	 that	it would be	 reasonably
practicable to	hold the inquiry. This argument is illogical
and is	a contradiction	 in terms. If an inquiry into	 the
charges against	 a government	servant	 is not reasonably
practicable, it	 stands to reason that	 an inquiry into the
question whether the	 disciplinary	inquiry	 should	 be
dispensed with or not is equally not reasonably practicable. A government servant who has been dismissed, removed or
reduced in rank by applying to his case clause (b) or an
analogous provisions of a service rule is not wholly without
a remedy. As pointed out earlier while dealing with	 the
various service rules, he can claim in a departmental appeal
or revision that an inquiry be held with respect to	 the
charges on which the	penalty	 of dismissal,	 removal or
reduction in rank has been imposed upon him unless the same
or a similar situation	 prevails at the time of hearing of
the appeal or revision application. If the same situation is
continuing or a similar situation arises, it would not then
be reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry at the time of
the hearing of the appeal or revision. Though in such a case
as the	government servant if	dismissed or removed	from
service, is not continuing in service	 and if	 reduced in
rank, is continuing in	 service with such reduced rank, no
prejudice could be caused	to the	 Government or	 the
Department if	 the hearing	of an	appeal	or revision
application, as the case may be, is postponed for a
reasonable time. Where a government servant is dismissed,	 removed or
reduced 274 in rank	 by applying clause (b) or an analogous provision of
the service rules and	the approaches either the High Court
under Article 226 or this Court under Article 32 , the court
will interfere	on grounds well established in law for the
exercise of power of	judicial review in matters where
administrative discretion is exercised. It will consider
whether clause	(b) or an analogous provision in the service
rules was properly applied or not. The finality given by
clause (3) of Article	311 to	the disciplinary authority's
decision that it was not reasonably practicable to hold the
inquiry is not binding	 upon the court. The court will also
examine the charge of	mala fides, if any, made in the writ
petition. In examining the relevancy of the reasons,	 the
court will consider the situation which according to	 the
disciplinary authority	made it	 come to the conclusion that
it was	not reasonably	practicable to	hold the inquiry. If
the court finds that the reasons are irrelevant, then the
recording of its satisfaction by the disciplinary authority
would be an abuse of power conferred upon it by clause (b)
and would take the case out of the purview of that clause
and the	 impugned order	 of penalty would stand invalidated.
In considering	the relevancy of the reasons given by the
disciplinary authority	the court will not, however, sit in
judgment over them like a court of first appeal. In order to
decide whether	the reasons are germane to clause (b), the
court must put itself	in the	place of the	disciplinary
authority and consider what in the then prevailing situation
a reasonable man acting in a reasonable way would have done.
The matter will have to be judged in the light of the then
prevailing situation	and not as if the	disciplinary
authority was deciding the question whether	the inquiry
should be dispensed with or not in the cool and detached
atmosphere of a court	 room,	removed	 in time from	 the
situation in question. Where two views are possible,	 the
court will decline to interfere. During the	 course of the argument a reference was made
to certain High Court	decisions and their citations	were
given. We have carefully gone through	 those decisions. It
is, however, unnecessary to refer to them. In so far as what
was held in those decisions or any of them is contrary to or
inconsistent with what has been held by us, those decisions
are not correct and are to that extent hereby overruled. The Second Proviso - Clause (c)
 We now turn to the last clause of the second proviso to Article 311(2) , namely, clause (c). Though its exclusionary 275 operation on the safeguards provided in Article 311(2) is
the same as those of the other two clauses, it is	very
different in content from them. While under clause (b) the
satisfaction is	 to be	 of disciplinary authority, under
clause (c) it is to be of the President or the Governor of a
State, as the case may be. Further, while under clause (b)
the satisfaction has to be with respect to whether it is not
reasonably practicable to hold the inquiry, under clause (c)
it is to be with respect to whether it will not be expedient
in the	interest of the security of the State to hold the
inquiry. Thus,	in one	 case the test is of reasonable
practicability of holding the inquiry, in the other case it
is of the expediency of holding the inquiry. While clause (b) expressly requires that the reason for dispensing with
the inquiry should be	recorded in writing, clause (c) does
not so require it, either expressly or impliedly. The expressions "law and	order", "public	 order"	 and
"security of the State" have been used in different Acts.
Situations which affect "public order" are graver than those
which affect "law and	order" and situations which affect
"security of the State" are graver than those which affect
"public order". Thus, of these situations these which affect
"security of the State" are the gravest. Danger to	 the
security of the State	may arise from without or within the
State. The expression "security of the State" does not mean
security of the entire country or a whole State. It includes
security of a part of the State. It also cannot be confined
to an armed rebellion	or revolt. There are various ways in
which security	of the	State can be affected.	 It can be
affected by State secrets or information relating to defence
production or similar matters	being passed on to other
countries, whether inimical or	 not to	 our country, or by
secret links with terrorists.	It is difficult to enumerate
the various ways in which security of the State can be
affected. The way in which security of the State is affected
may be	either open or clandestine. Amongst the more obvious
acts which affect the	 security of the State would be
disaffection in	 the Armed Forces or para-military Forces.
Disaffection in any of these Forces is likely to spread, for
disaffected or	dissatisfied members of these Forces spread
such dissatisfaction and disaffection among other members of
the Force and thus induce them not to discharge their duties
properly and to commit acts of indiscipline, insubordination
and disobedience to the orders of their superiors. Such a
situation cannot be a matter affecting only law and order or
public order but is a matter affecting vitally the security
of the State. In this respect, the Police Force 276 stands very much on the same	footing as a military	or a
paramilitary force for it is	charged	 with the duty of
ensuring and maintaining law and order and public order, and
breaches of discipline and	 acts of disobedience	 and
insubordination on the part of the members of the Police
Force cannot be viewed	 with less gravity than similar acts
on the	part of the members of the military or para-military
Forces. How important the proper discharge of their duties
by members of these Forces and the maintenance of discipline
among them is considered can be seen from Article 33 of the
Constitution. Prior to the Constitution (Fiftieth Amendment)
Act, 1984 , Article 33 provided as follows : By the	Constitution (Fiftieth	Amendment) Act,	 1984 ,	this
Article was substituted. By the substituted	Article	 the
scope of the Parliament's power to so restrict or abrogate
the application	 of any	 of the	 Fundamental Rights is made
wider. The substituted Article 33 reads as follows : Thus, the discharge of their duties by the members of these
Forces and the maintenance of discipline amongst them is
considered of such vital importance to the country that in
order to ensure this the Constitution	 has conferred	upon
Parliament to restrict or abrogate to them. The question under clause (c), however, is not whether
the security of the State has been affected or not, for the
expression used	 in clause (c) is "in	 the interest of the
security of the State". The interest of the security of the
State may be affected by actual acts or even the likelihood
of such	 acts taking place. Further, what is required under
clause (c) is not the satisfaction of the President or the
Governor, as the case	may be,	 that the interest of	 the
security of the State	is or	will be affected but	 his
satisfaction that in the interest of	the security of the
State,	it is	 not expedient to hold an	 inquiry as
contemplated by Article 311(2). The satisfaction of	 the
President or Governor must, therefore be with respect to the
expediency or inexpediency of	holding an inquiry in	 the
interest of the security of the State. The Shorter Oxford
English	 Dictionary, Third Edition,	 defines the	word
"inexpedient" as meaning "not expedient; disadvantageous in
the circumstances, unadvisable impolitic."	 The	same
dictionary defines "expedient" as	meaning	 inter	alia
"advantageous; fit, proper, or suitable to the circumstances
of the	case." Webster's Third New International Dictionary
also defines the term	"expedient" as	meaning	 inter	alia
"characterized by suitability, practicality, and efficiency
in achieving a particular end : fit, proper, or advantageous
under the circumstances." It must be borne in mind that the
satisfaction required by clause (c) is of the Constitutional
Head of	 the whole country or	of the	State. Under Article
74(1) of the Constitution, the satisfaction of the President
would be arrived at with the aid and advice of his Council
of Ministers with the Prime Minister as the Head and in the
case of	 a State by reason of the provisions	 of Article
163(1) by the Governor acting with the aid and advice of his
Council of 278 Ministers with	the Chief Minister as	the Head. Whenever,
therefore, the	 President or the	 Governor in	 the
Constitutional sense is satisfied that it will not be
advantageous or	 fit or proper or suitable or politic in the
interest of the security of the State to hold an inquiry, he
would be entitled to dispense with it under clause (c). The
satisfaction so	 reached by the President or the Governor
must necessarily be a	subjective satisfaction. Expediency
involves matters of policy. Satisfaction may be arrived at
as a result of secret information received by the Government
about the brewing danger to the security of the State and
like matters. There may be other factors which may be
required to be considered, weighed and balanced in order to
reach the requisite satisfaction whether holding an inquiry
would be expedient or not. If the requisite satisfaction has
been reached as a result of secret information received by
the Government,	 making, known	such information may	very
often result	in disclosure	 of the source of	such
information. Once known, the particular source from which
the information	 was received would no more be available to
the Government.	 The reasons for the satisfaction reached by
the President	 or Governor	under clause	(c) cannot,
therefore, be required to be	recorded in the order of
dismissal, removal or reduction in rank nor can they be made
public. In the case of clause (b) of the second proviso, clause
(3) of Article 311 makes the	decision of the disciplinary
authority that it was not reasonably practicable to hold the
inquiry final.	There is no such clause in Article 311 with
respect to the satisfaction reached by the President or the
Governor under	clause (c) of the second proviso. There are
two reasons for this. There can be no departmental appeal or
other departmental remedy against the satisfaction reached
by the	President or the Governor; and so far as the Court's
power of judicial review is concerned, the Court cannot sit
in judgment over State policy or the wisdom or otherwise of
such policy. The court	 equally cannot be the judge of
expediency or inexpediency. Given a known situation, it is
not for	 the Court to decide whether it was expedient or
inexpedient in	the circumstances of the case to dispense
with the inquiry. The satisfaction reached by the President
or Governor under clause (c) is subjective satisfaction and,
therefore, would not be a fit	 matter for judicial review.
Relying upon the observations	of Bhagwati, J., in State of
Rajasthan and others etc. etc. v. Union of India etc.etc.,
[1978] 1 S.C.R. 1, 82, it was submitted that the power of
judicial review	 is not	 excluded where	 the satisfaction of
the President or the Governor 279 has been reached mala fide or is based on wholly extraneous
or irrelevant grounds because	in such a case, in law there
would be no satisfaction of the President or the Governor at
all. It	 is unnecessary	 to decide this question because in
the matters under clause (c) before us, all the materials
including the advice tendered	by the Council of Ministers,
have been produced and they clearly show that in those cases
the satisfaction of the Governor was	neither reached mala
fide nor was it based	 on any extraneous or irrelevant
ground. It was further submitted	that what is	required by
clause (c) is that the holding of the inquiry should not be
expedient in the interest of the security of the State and
not the	 actual conduct	 of a government servant which would
be the	subject-matter of the inquiry.	 This submission is
correct so far as it goes but what it overlooks is that in
an inquiry into acts affecting the interest of the security
of the	State, several	matters not fit or proper to be made
public, including the source of information	involving a
government servant in such acts, would be disclosed and thus
in cases such as these an inquiry into acts prejudicial to
the interest of the security of the State would prejudice
the interest of the security of the State as much as those
acts would. It was also submitted that the Government must produce
before the court all materials upon which the satisfaction
of the	President or the Governor, as the case may be, was
reached. So far as the advice	 given	by the	 Council of
Ministers to the President or the Governor is concerned,
this submission	 is negatived by the express provisions of
the Constitution. Article 74(2) of the Constitution provides
: Similarly, Article 163(3) provides : It was then submitted that leaving aside the advice
given by the Ministers to the President or the Governor, the
Government is bound to disclose at least the materials upon
which the advice of 280 the Council of Ministers was based so that the Court can
examine whether	 the satisfaction of the President or	 the
Governor, as the case	may be,	 was arrived at mala fide or
based on wholly extraneous and irrelevant grounds so that
such satisfaction would in law amount to no satisfaction at
all. It	 was further submitted that if the Government does
not voluntarily	 disclose such materials it can be compelled
by the	Court to do so. Whether this should be done or not
would depend upon whether the documents in question	fall
within the class of privileged documents and	 whether in
respect of them privilege has been properly claimed or not.
It is unnecessary to examine	this question	any further
because in the cases under clause (c) before us though at
first privilege	 was claimed, at the hearing privilege was
waived and the materials as also the advice	given by the
Ministers to the Governor of Madhya Pradesh who had passed
the impugned orders in those cases were disclosed. The Nature of the Challenge to the Impugned orders
 In all matters before us the challenge to the validity
of the	impugned orders	 was confined only to legal grounds,
the main ground being based upon	 what was held in
Challappan's case and	the application of principles of
natural justice. The contentions with respect to these
grounds have been considered by us in the preceding part of
this Judgment and have	 been negatived. In most of	 the
matters	 the Writ Petitions contain	no detailed facts.
Several of the Petitioners have gone in departmental appeal
but that fact is not mentioned in the Writ Petitions nor the
order of the	appellate authority challenged where	 the
appeals have been dismissed. Many government servants have
combine together to file one Writ Petition and in the case
of such of them whose departmental appeals have been allowed
and they reinstated in service, the Petitions have not been
amended so as to delete their names and they have continued
to remain on the record as Petitioners. Several Petitions
are in identical terms, if not, almost exact copies of other
Petitions. No attempt has been made in such	 matters to
distinguish the case of one Petitioner from the other. Apart
from contesting	 the legal validity of the impugned orders,
hardly any one has even stated in his Petition that he was
not involved in the situation which has led to clause (b) or
clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 being
applied in his case. There is	 no allegation	of mala fide
against the authority passing the impugned orders except at
times a	 more bare allegation that the order was passed mala
fide. No particulars whatever	of such	 alleged mala fides
have been given. Such a	bare averment cannot amount to a plea of mala fides
and requires to be ignored. In this unsatisfactory state of
affairs go far as facts are concerned, the only course which
this Court can adopt is to consider whether	the relevant
clause of the second proviso to Article 311(2) or of an
analogous service rule has been properly applied or not. If
this Court finds that	such provision has not been properly
applied, the Appellant or the Petitioner, as the case may
be, is entitled to succeed. If, however, we find that it has
been properly applied, the Appeal or	 Petition would be
liable	to be	 dismissed, because there are no proper
materials before the Court to	 investigate and ascertain
whether any particular government servant was, in fact,
guilty of the charges	made against him or not. It is also
not the	 function of this Court to do	 so because it would
involve an inquiry into disputed questions of facts and this
Court will not, except	 in a rare case, embark upon such an
inquiry. For these reasons and in view of the directions we
propose to give while	disposing of these matters, we will
while dealing with facts refrain from	 touching any aspect
except whether	the particular	clause of the second proviso
to Article 311(2) or an analogous service rule was properly
applied or not. Civil Appeal No. 6814 of 1983 is the only matter before
us under clause (a) of the second proviso to Article 311(2). The respondent, Tulsiram Patel, was a permanent auditor
in the	Regional Audit Officer, M.E.S., Jabalpur. It appears
that orders were issued by	Headquarters, C.D.A. C.C.,
Meerut, stopping the increment	 of the	 Respondent for	 one
year. One Raj Kumar Jairath was at the relevant time the
Regional Audit	Officer, M.E.S., Jabalpur. On July 27,1976,
the Respondent	went to	 Raj Kumar's office and demanded an
explanation from him as to why he had stopped his increment
whereupon Raj Kumar replied that he was nobody to stop his
increment. The	Respondent then struck Raj Kumar on the head
with an	 iron rod. Raj Kumar fell down, his head bleeding.
The Respondent	was tried and convicted under section 332 of
the Indian Penal Code by	the First Class Judicial
Magistrate, Jabalpur. The Magistrate instead of sentencing
the Respondent to imprisonment applied to him the provisions
of section 4 of the Probation	 of Offenders Act, 1958, and
released him on his executing a bond of good behaviour for a
period of one year. The Respondents	appeal	against	 his
conviction was	dismissed by the Sessions Judge, Jabalpur.
The Controller General of 282 Defence Accounts, who was the disciplinary authority in the
case, imposed upon the Respondent the penalty of compulsory
retirement under clause (i) of Rule 19 of the Civil Services
Rules. The said order was in the following terms : The Respondent	thereupon filed	 a departmental appeal which
was dismissed. Thereafter the Respondent filed in the Madhya Pradesh
High Court a writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the
Constitution. Relying upon Challappan's Case the High Court
held that no opportunity had been afforded to the Respondent
before imposing the penalty of compulsory retirement on him.
It further held that	the impugned order was defective
inasmuch as it did not indicate the circumstances which were
considered by the disciplinary authority except the fact of
conviction of the Respondent. We are unable to	agree with either of the two reasons
given by the High Court for setting aside the order of
compulsory retirement. So far as the first ground upon which
the High Court proceeded is concerned, as already pointed
out that part of the judgment	 in Challapan's	 case is not
correct and it was, therefore, not necessary to give to the
Respondent any	opportunity of	hearing before	imposing the
penalty of compulsory retirement on him. It was, however, argued that the penalty imposed upon
the Respondent	was not of dismissal or removal from service
but of 283 compulsory retirement and, therefore, clause (a) of Article
311(2) did not apply.	The argument cannot be accepted. The
compulsory retirement of the Respondent was not by reason of
his reaching the age of superannuation or under other rules
which provide for compulsorily retiring a government servant
on his	completing the	qualifying period of service.	 The
order of compulsory retirement in this case was under clause (i) of Rule 19 of the Civil Services Rules and was by way of
imposing upon him one of the major penalties provided for in
Rule 11. It is	 now well settled by decisions of this Court
that where an order of compulsory retirement is imposed by
way of	penalty, it amounts to removal from service and the
provisions of Article 311 are attracted. (See State of U.P.
v. Shyam Lal Sharma , [1972] 1 S.C.R. 184,189 and the cases
referred to therein). The second	 ground upon which the High Court rested its
decision is equally unsustainable. The circumstances which
were taken into consideration by the disciplinary authority
have been sufficiently set out in the order of compulsory
retirement, they being	 that the Respondent's conviction
under section 332 of the Indian Penal Code and the nature of
the offence committed which led the disciplinary authority
to the	 conclusion that the	 further retention of	 the
Respondent in	the public service was undesirable.	 The
mention of section 332 of the Indian Penal Code in the said
order itself shows that Respondent was himself a public
servant and had voluntarily caused hurt to another public
servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant
or in consequence of an act done by	that person in	 the
lawful discharge of his duty. The facts here are eloquent
and speak for themselves. The Respondent had gone to the
office of his superior	 officer and had hit him on the head
with an	 iron rod. It was fortunate that the skull of Raj
Kumar was not fractured otherwise the offence committed
would have been the more serious one under section 333. The
Respondent was	lucky in being dealt with leniently by the
Magistrate but	these facts clearly show that his retention
in public service was	undesirable. In fact, the conduct of
the Respondent	was such that he merited the	 penalty of
dismissal from	government service and it is clear that by
imposing upon him only the penalty of compulsory retirement,
the disciplinary authority had in his mind the fact that the
Magistrate had	released him on probation. We	 accordingly
hold that clause (i) of Rule 19 of the Civil Services Rules
was rightly applied to the case of the Respondent. This Appeal, therefore, requires to be allowed and the
writ petition filed by the Respondent in the Madhya Pradesh
High Court deserves to be dismissed. CISF Matters
 Civil Appeal No. 3484 of 1982 - Union of India	 and
others v. Sada Nand Jha and others and Civil Appeal No. 3512
of 1982	 - Union of India and others v. G.P.Koushal- relate
to the	members of the CIS Force who were dismissed from the
Force after dispensing with the disciplinary	 inquiry by
applying clause	 (b) of	 Rule 37 of the CISF Rules read with
clause (b) of the second proviso of Article	311(2). All
except one of them filed a writ petition in the Patna High
Court while the remaining one filed a writ petition in the
Madhya Pradesh	High Court. Both the High Courts allowed the
writ petitions	relying upon the decisions in Challappan's
case. Civil Appeal No. 3484 of 1982 is directed against the
judgment of the Patna High Court while Civil Appeal No. 3512
of 1982	 is directed against the judgment of	the Madhaya
Pradesh High Court. Before dealing with the relevant facts, we may mention
that the counter affidavit filed to the writ	 petition in
both the said	High Courts were unsatisfactory. At	 the
hearing of these Appeals an application was made on behalf
of the	Appellants for leave to file a supplementary return.
This application was granted by us in the	interest of
justice and the supplementary	Return annexed	to the	said
application was taken on the record. We will now briefly set
out the	 facts which led to the passing of the impugned
orders. The Respondents in Civil Appeal No. 3484 of 1982 are
dismissed members of the CISF Unit at Bokaro Steel Plant of
the Bokaro Steel Limited situate at Bokaro in the State of
Bihar temporary	 security guard	 in the	 CISF Unit posted at
Security Paper	Mill at	 Hoshangabad in	 the State of Madhya
Pradesh. We will first	 deal with the facts of Civil Appeal
No. 3484 of 1982. The members of the CISF Unit at Bokaro had
formed an all-India association in March 1979 and	 one
Sadanand Jha, Respondent No. 1, was elected as its General
Secretary. Thereafter,	a country wide agitation was carried
on for	recognition of	the said association. In June 1979
some of the members of the said association were called upon
to meet the Home Minister at Delhi. A delegation of the said
association went to Delhi. While there they staged a
demonstration. Some of the demonstrators, including Sadanand
Jha, were arrested. What happened thereafter	can best be
related by extracting paragraphs 3 to 9 of the supplementary
Return filed by Shri Madan Gopal, the Deputy Inspector-
General, CISF Unit of	Bokaro Steel Plant, Bokaro, pursuant
to the leave granted by this Court. These paragraphs read as
follows : We see no reason to doubt the above statements made by
Shri Madan Gopal in the Supplementary Return for these
statements are	 supported by	documents which have	been
annexed to the Supplementary Return. The facts set out in
the above paragraphs	 of the Supplementary	 Return	 are
eloquent and speak for	 themselves. They are also reflected
in the	impugned order.	 All the impugned orders are in the
same terms apart from	the mention of the name and service
number of the particular member of the said CISF	Unit
against whom the order is made. By way of a specimen we set
out below the impugned	 order dated June 29, 1979, made in
the case of Sadanand Jha. The said order is as follows : The CIS Force has	 been constituted under the CISF Act for the better protection and security of industrial
undertakings owned by the Government. Under section 14 of
the Act, the Inspector-General	 of the	 CIS Force may on a
request in that behalf	 from the Managing Director of an
Industrial undertaking	 in public sector,	showing	 the
necessity thereof, depute such number of	 supervisory
officers and members of the CIS Force as the Inspector-
General	 may consider	necessary for	the protection	 and
security of that industrial undertaking and any installation
attached thereto. The purpose of constituting the CIS Force
is set	out in	the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the
Bill which when enacted became the CISF Act . The	said
Statement of Objects and Reasons is published in the Gazette
of India Extraordinary	 dated	August	2, 1966, Part	 II, Section 2 , at page 435, and is as follows : The CIS Force is an Armed Force and the security duties
to be performed by the CIS Force are of vital importance to
the industrial	production of the country. The CIS Force has
been conferred	very wide powers. Under Section 11 of the
CISF Act, any supervisory officer or	member of the Force
may, without any order 290 from a	Magistrate and	without a warrant, arrest any person
who has	 been concerned	 in or	against	 whom a reasonable
suspicion exists of his having been concerned in or who is
found taking precautions to conceal	his presence under
circumstances which afford reason to believe	that he is
taking	such precautions with a view to committing a
cognizable offence relating to the property belonging to any
industrial undertaking	or other installations. Similarly,
under section 12 for the same purpose a supervisory officer
or member of the CIS Force, not below the prescribed rank,
has the	 power to search the person and belongings of any
person whom he has reason to believe to have committed any
such offence as is referred to in section 11 . From what is
stated above, it is obvious that in a Force entrusted with
such large responsibility, maintenance of discipline is most
essential and this is	made clear by section	18(1) of the
CISF Act which provides as follows : Under section 19 of the CISF Act, the Police (Incitement to
Disaffection) Act, 1922, applies to supervisory officers and
members of the CIS Force as it applies to members of a
Police Force. Under section 20 , neither the Payment of Wages
Act, 1936 , nor the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , nor the Factories Act, 1948 , nor any corresponding State Act applies
to the member of the CIS Force. The facts	set out	 in the Supplementary Return of Shri
Mohan Gopal and in the impugned orders show that there was a
total breakdown	 of discipline in the CIS Force. There was a
wilful	and deliberate disobedience	 of orders of	 the
supervisory officers and 'gherao' of such officers. There
was a hunger strike, dharna, 291 shouting of revellious slogans	 and threats of violence and
bodily	 harm to supervisory officers	and acts tending to
intimidate the supervisory officers and loyal members of the
staff. There were acts	 of insubordination and deliberate
neglect and wilful violation of their duties by a very large
section of the members of the CIS Force stationed at Bokaro.
All these acts virtually amounted to a mutiny and how grave
the situation was can	be judge from the fact that the army
had to be called out and a pitched battle took place between
the army and the members of the Force. No person with any
reason or sence of responsibility can	 say that in such a
situation the	 holding of an inquiry was reasonably
practicable. It was said that	the impugned orders did not set out
the particular	acts done by each of the members of the CIS
Force in respect of whom the dismissal orders was made, and
these were merely cyclostyled	orders	with the names of
individual members of the CIS Force filled in. Here was a
case very much like a case under section 149 of the Indian
Penal Code. The acts alleged were not of any particular
individual acting by himself.	These were acts of a large
group acting collectively with the common object of coercing
those in charge of the administration of the CIS Force and
the Government	in order to obtain recognition for their
association and to concede their demands. It is not possible
in a situation such as this to particularize	 the acts of
each individual	 members who participated in the commission
of these acts. The participation of each individual may be
of greater or lesser degree but the acts of each individual
contributed to	the creation of a situation	in which a
security force itself became a security risk. It was submitted at the Bar that the real reason for
passing the orders impugned in Civil Appeal No. 1484 of 1982
was the	 encounter with	 the army on June 25, 1979, and this
real reason as not mentioned in the impugned order because
the Respondents	 had been arrested and were being prosecuted
and, therefore,	 before passing	 the impugned	orders,	 the
disciplinary authority	would have had	 to wait till	 the
prosecutions were over. Such an allegation has not been made
in the writ petition filed in the High Court. In fact, there
is no mention in the writ petition of the help of the army
being sought or of the encounter with the army. The impugned
orders mentioned the reasons why they	 were passed.	Then
Supplementary Returns bears out these	 reasons. We have,
therefore, no hesitation in accepting what is stated in the 292 impugned orders. In our opinion, clause (b) of Rule 37 of
the CISF Rules and clause (b)	 of the	 second	 proviso to Article 311(2) were properly applied to the cases of the
Respondents. Finally, a	 grievance was	made at	 the Bar that	 the
dismissed members of the CIS Force had filed departmental
appeals and the appeals of those who had been discharged by
the Magistrate	 were allowed	and these appellants	were
reinstated. We	do not	know how far this is correct nor the
reasons for allowing such appeals, but if what is stated is
ture, it is not fair and the remaining appeals should be
disposed of as early as possible. The impugned order in Civil Appeal No. 3512 of 1982 is
in the same terms as the impugned orders in Civil Appeal No.
3484 of 1982. The situation at Hoshangabad was very much the
same as	 at Bokaro and in our opinion clause (b) of Rule 37
of the	CISF Rules and clause	(b) of the second proviso to
clause (2) of Article 311 were properly applied to the case
of the Respondent. Both these Appeals, therefore, require to be allowed.
 Railway Service Matters
 Civil Appeals Nos. 3231 of 1981	and 4067 of 1983 and
all the	 writ petitions	 filed in this Court (except	Writ
Petitions Nos. 1953 of 1981, 7393,1392 and 2022 of 1981) and
all Transferred Cases, that is, writ petitions filed in High
Courts and transferred to this Court,	 relate	 to railway
servants who were either dismissed or removed from service
by applying to their cases either clause (ii) of Rule 14 of
the Railway Servants Rules or clause	(b) of	 the second
proviso to Article 311(2) or clause (ii) of	Rule 14 read
with clause (b) of the second proviso. We have carefully gone through the facts of each of
these cases. The majority of the railway employees who were
dismissed or removed are alleged to have been concerned in
incident which	took place in all-India strikes of railway
employees. Many of these employees belonged to the all-India
loco-running staff. The proper	 running of the railway service is vital to
the country. Railway trains carry not only those going for a
holiday but also those	 who commute to work or business. In
certain cities,	 for instance - Bombay, Lakhs commute daily
by train for 293 this purpose. The railway trains also carry those going to
attend the funeral or obsequiel ceremonies of near and dear
ones and equally they	carry marriage	parties. They carry
those who are in urgent need	of medical treatment or have
been seriously	injured and not having proper medical aid in
the places where they	reside, have to be rushed to	 the
nearest	 town,	city or district headquarter	 where	such
medical aid is available. They carry essential commodities
like foodgrains, oil, etc.	 They carry equipment	 and
machinery vital	 for the needs of the country. In times of
disturbances they carry members of the Defence Forces and
the Central Reserve Police Force. In this connection, it is
pertinent to note what	 Shah,J., as he then was, had to say
in Moti	 Ram Dekh 's case (at pages 795-6) about the railway
administration and employment in railway service: As pointed	 out in Kameshwar Prasad and others v. The
State of Bihar and another (at page	 385) there is no
Fundamental Right to resort to a strike. A strike is only
legal if an Act permits it and only	if it is called in
compliance with	 the conditions	 prescribed by	the Act. The
definition of "public utility	service" in clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, includes and
railway service. The term "strike" is defined in clause (q)
of section 2 of the said Act. The said clause (q) is as
follows : Under sub-section (1) of section 22 of the said Act, no
person employed in a public utility service can go no strike
in breach of contract	without giving	to his	 employer a
notice of strike as prescribed by that section. Under section 24 a strike is illegal if it is commenced or
declared in contravention of section 22 . Under section 26(1) any workman who commences, continues or otherwise acts in
furtherance of a strike which is illegal under the said Act,
commits an offence punishable	with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one month	 or with a fine which	 may
extend to fifty rupees	 or with both. The railway strikes
were all commenced without complying with the provisions of section 22 . These strikes were, therefore, illegal and each
of the	railway servants who participated in these strikes
committed an offence punishable under section 26(1) of the
said Act. It may be that the railway servants went on these
strikes with the object of forcing the Government to meet
their demands. Their demands were for their private gain and
in their private interest. In seeking to have these demands
conceded they caused untold hardship	to the	 public	 and
prejudicially affected	public good and public interest and
the good and interest of the nation. It was contended that the conduct charged against all
employees was not of equal gravity. This is true for in the
case of	 some of the railway servants the acts alleged to
have been committed by them would not if committed in normal
times, merit the penalty of	dismissal or removal	from
service, but when committed in furtherance of an all-India
strike which has paralysed a public utility service	they
cannot be viewed in the same light. It	 was also contended	that the punishments	were
arbitrarily meted out because	in some	 centres the railway
servants were dismissed from service while in some other
centres they were removed from service. The	quantum	 and
extent of penalty would depend upon the gravity of	 the
situation at a particular centre and the extent to which the
alleged	 acts,	 though	 not serious	in themselves, in
conjunction with acts committed by others, contributed to
the bringing about of this situation. In the context of	 an all-India strike where a	very
large number of railway servants had struck work,	 the
railway	 services paralysed, loyal workers and superior
officers assaulted and intimidated, the country held to
ransom, the economy of	 the country and public interest and
public good prejudicially affected, prompt and immediate
action was called for	to bring the situation to normal. In
these circumstances, it cannot	 be said that an inquiry was
reasonably practicable. On a careful examination	of the	facts of these cases
and the impugned orders, we find that in each of these cases
clause (ii) Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules or clause (b) of	the second proviso to Article 311(2) or both, as the
case may be,	were properly	applied. All these matter
therefore require to be dismissed. The Madhya Pradesh Police Forces Matters
 The matters which now remain to be dealt with are Writ
Petitions Nos.	 1953,7393,1392 and	2022 of 1981.	 The
Petitioners belonged either to	 the Madhya Pradesh District
Police Force or the Madhya Pradesh special Armed Force. The
Petitioners were dismissed by	orders of the	Governor of
Madhya Pradesh	by applying clause (c) of the second proviso
to Article 311(2) to them. All the orders are in the same
terms except for the same and designation of the concerned
policeman. One	 of the orders may be reproduced as a
specimen. That order is as follows: On behalf and under orders of
			 the Governor of M.P.
				 Sd/- (Indira Mishra)
					 Under Secretary
 Govt. of M.P., Home (Police) Deptt." We have already held that in applying clause (c) of the
second	proviso	 the Governor	 of a	State acts on	 his
subjective satisfaction	 taking into consideration facts and
factors which are not	proper matters	for judicial review.
However, the claim of privilege was waived by the Government
and all the materials produced at the hearing and inspection
given to the other side. These materials disclose that an
incident took place on January 18, 1981, at the annual Mela
held at	 Gwalior in which one	man was	 burnt	alive.	Some
persons, including a constable from	each of these	 two
Forces, were arrested. These persons	were remanded	into
judicial custody. On January 20, 1981, several members of
these two Forces indulged in	violent	 demonstrations	 and
rioted at the Mela ground, demanding	the release of their
colleagues. They attacked the	police station	at the	Mela
ground, ransacked it and forced the operator to close down
the wireless set. The	situation became so dangerous	that
senior district	 and police officers had to approach	 the
Judicial Magistrate at	 night	and get the two arrested
constables released on bail. The incident was discussed at a
Cabinet meeting, a decision was taken and the advice of the
Council of Ministers was tendered to the Governor of Madhya
Pradesh who accepted it and issued the impugned orders. On
further scrutiny some names were deleted from the list of
dismissed personnel and some others included. As a result of
this, some other members of these Forces began carrying on
an active propaganda	 against the Government, visiting
Jabalpur and other places in the State of Madhya Pradesh,
holding secret meetings, distributing leaflets, and inciting
the constabulary in these places to rise	against	 the
administration as a body in protest against the action taken
by the	Government. On this information being received, they
too were similarly dismissed. These facts speak	 for
themselves. The	 police normally oppose the grant of bail to
an accused but here we have the paradoxical	situation of
some of	 the highest police and district officers going at
midnight to the Magistrate's house to apply for bail for 297 the accused. The police are the guardians of law and order.
They stand guard at the border between the green valleys of
law and order and the rough and hilly terrain of lawlessness
and public disorder. If these guards turn law-breakers and
create violent	public disorder	 and incite others to do the
same, we can only exclaim with Juvenal, "Quis custodiet
ipsos' Custodes?"- who is to guard the guards themselves?" THAKKAR, J. A benevolent and justice-oriented decision
of a three-Judge Bench	 of this Court, rendered ten years
back in a group of service matters, (D.P.O. Southern Railway
v. T.R.	 Challappan), [1976] 1 S.C.R.	783, is sought to be
overruled by the judgment proposed to	 be delivered by my
learned Brother Madon, J, with which, the majority appear to
agree. "Challappan" having held the field for such a long
time, it would have been appropriate	if a meeting of the
Judges Constituting the Bench had been convened to seriously
deliberate and	evolve a consensus as	to whether or not to
overrule it. A 'give' and 'take' of ideas, with due respect
for the	 holders of the opposite point of view (in a true
democratic spirit of tolerance), with willingness to accord
due consideration to the same, would not have impaired the
search for the true solution or hurt the cause of justice.
The holders of the rival view	 points could have, perhaps,
successfully persuaded	and converted the holders of	 the
opposite point	of view	 or got themselves persuaded	 and
converted to the other point of view. Brother Madon, J, to whom the judgment was assigned by
the learned Chief Justice, also appears to suffer heart-ache
on the same score, for, in his covering letter dated July 6,
1985 forwarding the first instalment of 142 pages he says : If only	 there had been a meeting in order	 to have a
dialogue, there	 might have been a meeting of minds, and we
might have spoken in one voice. Failing which, the holders
of the	dissenting view	 point	could have prepared their
dissenting opinions. That was not to be. On the other hand,
it has	so transpired that, the full draft judgment running
into 237 pages has come to be circulated in the morning of
July 11, 1985, less than 3 hours before the deadline for
pronouncing the	 judgment. There is a	 time-compulsion to
pronounce the judgment, on 11th July, 1985, as the learned
Chief Justice who has	presided over the Constitution Bench
is due to retire on that day, and the judge-time invested by
the five Judges would	be wasted if it is not pronounced
before his retirement. The judge-time would be so wasted
because the entire exercise would have to be done afresh.
The neck-to-neck race against	time and circumstances is so
keen that it is impossible to prepare an elaborate judgment
presenting the	 other	 point	of view within hours	 and
circulate the same amongst all the Judges constituting the
Bench in this important matter which was heard for months,
months ago. I am, therefore, adopting the only course open
to me in undertaking the present exercise. 'Challappan', in my opinion, has been rightly decided.
And there is no compulsion to	 overrule it - Even if the
other point of view were to appear to be more 'attractive',
it is neither a good nor a sufficient ground to overrule
'Challappan'. After all what does 'Challappan' do? It does
no more	 than enjoin in the context of Rule 14(1) (a) and
therefore, as a logical corollary, also in the context of
Rule 14(a) (b) of the	 Railway Servants (Discipline	 and
Appeal) Rules, 1968, that an employee must at least be heard
on the	question of quantum of punishment before he is
dismissed or removed	from service without	holding	 any
inquiry. The ratio of	the decision is so innocuous	that
there is hardly any need to overturn it. Apart from	 the
weighty reasons	 articulated by the three-Judge Bench, there
are some more which can be called into aid. But while the
'will' is very much there, not the 'time', to elaborate the
reasons	 to buttress	'Challappan' and to	counter	 the
criticism levelled against the thesis 300 propounded therein. Or to expound my point of view in regard
to propositions	 in respect of which I have reservations. I
propose to do so later if deemed necessary. For the present, therefore, suffice it to say,	I am
unable to persuade myself to fall in line with the majority
in overruling 'Challappan' and	 unable to concur with	 the
consequential orders being passed in that context. I am also
unable to associate myself with the exposition of law in
regard to the true meaning and content of the 'pleasure
doctrine' and its implications and impact. The sphere	 in which I am able	to agree with	 the
proposed judgment is in regard to the matters arising out of
orders passed in exercise of powers under Article 311(2) (c) of the	Constitution of	 India and the orders proposed to be
passed therein. In the result: