% 31.07.2024 1. The present petition was filed way back in the year 2019
 seeking quashing of the FIR No. 682/2017 dated 09.09.2017,
 registered at Police Station Mukherjee Nagar, for offences under Sections 498A / 406 / 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ( IPC ) and
 the charge sheet dated 07.05.2018. 2. The present FIR was registered at the behest of
 Respondent No. 2 alleging harassment on the ground of demand CRL.M.C. 1595/2019 Page 1 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/08/2024 at 00:01:38
 for dowry and usurpation of the share in the household property
 against the petitioners. Respondent No. 2, at the relevant time,
 was married to Petitioner No. 1 and Petitioner Nos. 2 to 4 are the
 family members of Petitioner No. 1. It is alleged that since the
 day of the marriage, Respondent No. 2 was being humiliated,
 harassed and tortured in relation with the demand for dowry. 3. For some reason or the other, the matter has been kept
 pending. From February 2020 to March 2022, the matter could
 not be heard due to the onset of COVID-19. 4. The learned counsel for the petitioners submits that the
 petitioners have been unnecessarily implicated in the present
 case. 5. He submits that the parties, pursuant to the registration of
 the present FIR, were also involved in litigations before the
 competent Courts in the United States of America (USA). 6. He submits that the orders passed by the Courts in USA,
 show that no offence has been made out and that Respondent No.
 2 was not subjected to cruelty for any demand for dowry. 7. It is undisputed that certain orders have been passed in the
 proceedings between the parties, pursuant to the registration of
 the present FIR. 8. It cannot be denied that the orders passed by the competent
 Courts in the USA in the proceedings between the parties which
 arise out of a matrimonial dispute, would be relevant in the
 proceedings arising out of the present FIR. 9. The learned counsel for Respondent No. 2 fairly states that
 she has no objection if the documents in regard to the
 proceedings between the parties are placed before the learned
 Trial Court. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/08/2024 at 00:01:38 10. She, however, submits that the number of documents
 which have been relied upon in the present petition are not
 admitted, and only the Court records are admitted. 11. The charge sheet, in the present case, has already been
 filed. 12. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State, on
 instructions, submits that the documents as mentioned above,
 have already been provided to the Investigating Officer. It is,
 however, not clear whether the same has been made part of the
 charge sheet or has been brought on record of the learned Trial
 Court for its consideration while hearing the arguments on
 charge. 13. While the exercise of power under Section 482 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( CrPC ) is not barred when there is
 an alternative remedy, a litigant cannot be allowed to circumvent
 or subvert the due procedure of law on mere apprehension of a
 long-drawn litigation. 14. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Indian Oil
 Corporation v. NEPC India Limited and Others : (2006) 6 SCC
 736 has discussed the scope of jurisdiction under Section 482 of
 the CrPC to quash criminal proceedings. The relevant portion of
 the same is reproduced hereunder: For this purpose, the complaint has to be examined as a
 whole, but without examining the merits of the allegations.
 Neither a detailed inquiry nor a meticulous analysis of the
 material nor an assessment of the reliability or genuineness
 of the allegations in the complaint, is warranted while
 examining prayer for quashing of a complaint. (ii) A complaint may also be quashed where it is a clear
 abuse of the process of the court, as when the criminal
 proceeding is found to have been initiated with mala
 fides/malice for wreaking vengeance or to cause harm, or
 where the allegations are absurd and inherently improbable. (iii) The power to quash shall not, however, be used to
 stifle or scuttle a legitimate prosecution. The power should
 be used sparingly and with abundant caution. (iv) The complaint is not required to verbatim reproduce
 the legal ingredients of the offence alleged. If the necessary
 factual foundation is laid in the complaint, merely on the
 ground that a few ingredients have not been stated in detail,
 the proceedings should not be quashed. Quashing of the
 complaint is warranted only where the complaint is so bereft
 of even the basic facts which are absolutely necessary for
 making out the offence. (v) A given set of facts may make out: (a) purely a civil
 wrong; or (b) purely a criminal offence; or (c) a civil wrong
 as also a criminal offence. A commercial transaction or a
 contractual dispute, apart from furnishing a cause of action
 for seeking remedy in civil law, may also involve a criminal
 offence. As the nature and scope of a civil proceeding are
 different from a criminal proceeding, the mere fact that the
 complaint relates to a commercial transaction or breach of
 contract, for which a civil remedy is available or has been
 availed, is not by itself a ground to quash the criminal
 proceedings. The test is whether the allegations in the
 complaint disclose a criminal offence or not." (emphasis supplied) CRL.M.C. 1595/2019 Page 4 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/08/2024 at 00:01:38 15. It is true that the Court in case finds that the proceedings
 are manifestly frivolous or vexatious or are instituted with the
 ulterior motive of wreaking vengeance, ought to look into the
 FIR with care and little more closely. The Court can look into
 the attending circumstances emerging from the record of the case
 and can read between the lines. If the allegations are far-fetched
 and it appears that the provisions of Section 498A of the IPC are
 misused, since it has become an increased tendency to implicate
 the relatives in the matrimonial disputes, the Court can interfere
 while exercising powers under Section 482 oft he CrPC . [Ref. - Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana & Another : 2024 SCC
 OnLine SC 759 ; Abhishek v. State of Madhya Pradesh : 2023
 SCC OnLine SC 1083 and Kahkashan Kausar @ Sonam &
 Ors. v. State of Bihar & Ors. : (2022) 6 SCC 599] 16. In the present case, specific allegations have been made
 against the petitioners though, it is contended that no offence is
 made out and strong reliance is placed on the orders passed in the
 proceedings before the competent Court in the USA. 17. At this stage, it cannot be said that the allegations made in
 the complaint do not constitute any offence against the
 petitioners. It is contended that the present FIR is outcome of
 vexatious and frivolous allegations made with ulterior motive of
 wrecking vengeance. The allegations have been made against the
 family members of the husband even though the parties had been
 residing in USA. In support of the contention, reliance is sought
 to be placed on the orders which are passed subsequent to
 registration of FIR by the competent Courts in USA. 18. As noted above, the entire evidence including the
 documents in regard to proceeding before the Court in USA have CRL.M.C. 1595/2019 Page 5 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/08/2024 at 00:01:38
 been placed before the learned Trial Court. Admittedly, the
 learned Trial Court has power to consider the same and pass
 appropriate order. 19. Since the matter is pending before the learned Trial Court
 and undisputedly the learned Trial Court has power to consider
 all arguments after perusing the evidence that is brought on
 record, this Court does not consider it apposite to entertain the
 present petition. 20. As noted above, Respondent No. 2 has no objection if the
 documents in regard to the proceedings between the parties are
 placed before the learned Trial Court and an appropriate order is
 passed. 21. In view of the above, the petitioners are permitted to file
 all the necessary documents before the learned Trial Court. 22. The learned Trial Court is directed to pass an appropriate
 order on charge after considering the same and hearing the
 objection of Respondent No. 2 in regard to the admissibility of
 the said documents in accordance with law. 23. The present petition is disposed of in the aforesaid terms. 24. Needless to state, it is open to the petitioners to take all
 their defences before the learned Trial Court and are at liberty to
 approach this Court in case any grievance remains. 25. Pending application(s) also stand disposed of. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 JULY 31, 2024
 'KDK'/SS CRL.M.C. 1595/2019 Page 6 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/08/2024 at 00:01:38