A.K. SIKRI, J. One Mr. Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu was the Chairman of the
 Punjab Public Service Commission (for short, 'PSC') between 1996-2002.
 During his tenure as the Chairman, some appointments were made in the
 Executive Class–I between 1998-2001, by way of direct recruit as well
 as by nomination, as provided in the Rules. Appointments of judicial
 officers were also made in four batches within the same period. On
 getting tip to the effect that for making such appointments Mr. Sidhu
 had received bribe from many people, raids were conducted in his house
 sometime in the year 2002, on more than one occasion. A huge sum of
 money, i.e., Rs. 16 crores (approximately), was recovered from his
 custody and from other relatives of Mr. Sidhu. This led to lodging of
 the First Information Reports (FIRs) against him, leading to criminal
 prosecution primarily under the provisions of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act, 1988 . In these FIRs, some of the officers of the
 Executive Branch and Allied Services of the Punjab Civil Service (for
 short, ‘PCS’) were also implicated. Smelling rat in the appointments
 in the PCS Executive Branch and Allied Services Branch, as well as
 judicial appointments, result sheets of the nominated candidates and
 the answer sheets of PCS Executive Branch and Allied Services Branch
 were seized. On going through the same, Vigilance Bureau of the State
 of Punjab informed the Chief Secretary, Punjab that most of the
 examinations held during the tenure of Mr. Sidhu were tainted. This
 led to spate of actions taken by the State Government. In the first
 instance, the services of all officers in the category of Nominated
 Executive Officers, who were about to complete their period of
 probation, were terminated on May 23, 2002. This was done by passing
 orders of termination simpliciter purporting to be in terms of Rules,
 i.e., by terminating the probation. Thereafter, vide orders dated
 August 24, 2002, services of the direct recruits, Executive Class-I
 and II were terminated by way of dismissal on the premise that
 criminal prosecution had been launched against Mr. Sidhu. So far as
 judicial officers are concerned, the Chief Justice of the High Court
 constituted a Committee to go into the allegations and also the news
 items appearing in the media alleging that wards of some sitting
 Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had been favoured by the
 Chairman of the PSC. The said Committee submitted its report
 recommending cancellation of all the appointments of the judicial
 officers who were recruited in four batches from 1998 till 2002. This
 report was accepted by the Full Court and was sent to the Government.
 Initially, the Government of Punjab raised a query as to what was the
 basis for recommendation of cancellation of appointments of the 1998
 batch candidates, as selection of that batch was not in question.
 Another Committee was constituted and on the basis of report, which
 was approved by the Full Court, recommendation was reiterated. As a
 consequence, the services of all these judicial officers also came to
 be terminated. 2) All these persons, who services had been terminated, belonging to
 Executive, Allied Services as well as Judicial Branches, challenged
 these actions by filing writ petitions in the High Court. We describe
 hereinbelow the manner in which the cases of Executive and Allied
 Services Branches were dealt with and the outcome thereof, as in the
 present case we are concerned with the officers of PCS Executive
 Branch and Allied Services Branch. However, since the judgment
 rendered by this Court in respect of termination of judicial officers
 has some bearing on the present case, we shall take note of the
 outcome of the cases filed by the judicial officers as well. 3) Insofar as PCS Executive Branch and Allied Services Branch are
 concerned, a large number of writ petitions were filed by almost all
 the officers whose services were terminated; be it direct recruits or
 nominated officers. The matter was referred to the Full Bench, having
 regard to the importance of the question of law involved. The Full
 Bench presided by the then Chief Justice of the High Court and two
 senior most Judges, after hearing these petitions at length, decided
 those writ petitions by judgment dated July 07, 2003, which is
 reported as Amarbir Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Ors. , 2003 (5)
 SLR 398. By means of this judgment, the Full Bench dismissed all the
 writ petitions, thereby confirming the action of the State Government
 terminating the services of all the officers of PCS Executive Branch
 and Allied Services Branch as well as the judicial officers. As per
 the High Court, the decision of the Government to terminate the
 services was because of the reason that the entire selection process
 in respect of PCS Executive Branch and Allied Services Branch was so
 tainted and vitiated, the Government was left with no alternative but
 to declare the entire selection as null and void. The case set up by
 the State of Punjab was that during his tenure as Chairman of PSC from
 September 1996 to March 26, 2002, Mr. Sidhu completely usurped the
 powers of the Commission unto himself, to the exclusion of all other
 members, and manipulated the system for ensuring the selection of
 those who had paid money or came with the recommendations. It had
 relied upon the statements of Mr. Jagman Singh, a confident and tout
 of Mr. Sidhu (who had become approver in the criminal case), who
 disclosed the modus operandi adopted by Mr. Sidhu. It was pointed out
 that during the investigation it was revealed that question papers and
 answer scripts were smuggled out of the headquarters of the PSC. At
 times, blank answer sheets were given to the prospective candidates
 and special instructions were given to the examiners towards higher
 marks to favoured candidates and at the same time less marks were
 awarded to more meritorious candidates. By accepting the bribes to
 favour such persons, Mr. Sidhu had amassed assets worth Rs. 22 crores.
 It was averred that the entire selection process was completely
 vitiated and it was not possible to separate the meritorious
 candidates from others and, therefore, a decision was taken to
 terminate all the appointments. 4) The High Court, after examining the matter, accepted the aforesaid
 argument of the State Government to the effect that it was not
 possible to segregate the tainted candidates from untainted ones,
 leaving no option for the State Government but to cancel the entire
 selection process. Few judgments of this Court were relied upon to
 hold that in such circumstances, when the selection process is found
 to be vitiated, the Administration had a right to cancel the selection
 process and while doing so it was not necessary to adhere to the
 principles of natural justice, which had no role to play in matters
 like these. 5) Aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment in Amarbir Singh’s case (supra),
 all these officers whose services were terminated approached this
 Court. Special leave was granted in all these petitions and civil
 appeals were heard and decided by this Court, with lead case known as Inderpreet Singh Kahlon & Ors. v. State of Punjab , (2006) 11 SCC 356.
 Since this judgment is sheet anchor of the appellants before us, in
 the second round of litigation, we would like to take note of this
 judgment in some detail. 6) It can be easily guessed, as it is so obvious, that the case of the
 appellants in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon’s case (supra) was that the
 action of the State Government and the stamp of approval of the High
 Court in cancelling the entire selection process was impermissible.
 The appellants therein had argued that there was no basis for such a
 finding, namely, the entire selection process had been vitiated and it
 was necessary for the Government to separate cases of tainted persons
 from non-tainted ones and to take action against only those who were
 tainted. It was argued that by not undertaking such an exercise and
 clubbing together tainted as well as non-tainted persons, two unequal
 classes were clubbed together thereby meting out discriminatory
 treatment qua those who were without blemish and it amounted to
 violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. The
 appellants in the said case had also argued that while holding that
 entire selection process was vitiated by corruption and cancelling the
 same after appointees had put in few years of service, the High Court
 had applied the principle of ‘mass cheating cases’, which principle
 was applicable only in the cases of examination in academic
 institutions and not the examination for the purpose of public
 employment. Pertinently, this Court generally accepted the aforesaid
 submissions of the appellants. From the reading of the judgment, one
 can discern the following principles: If the services of appointees who had put in a few years of
 service were terminated, compliance with three principles at the hands
 of the State was imperative viz.: (1) to establish satisfaction in
 regard to the sufficiency of the materials collected so as to enable
 the State to arrive at its satisfaction that the selection process was
 tainted; (2) to determine the question that the illegalities committed
 went to the root of the matter, which vitiated the entire selection
 process. Such satisfaction as also the sufficiency of materials were
 required to be gathered by reason of a thorough investigation in a
 fair and transparent manner; (3) whether the sufficient material
 present enabled the State to arrive at a satisfaction that the
 officers in majority had been found to be part of the fraudulent
 purpose or the system itself was corrupt. (e) Once the necessary factual findings as enumerated above are
 arrived at, or it is found impossible or highly improbable to separate
 tainted from untainted cases, all appointments traceable to the
 officers concerned could be cancelled. But admittedly, in the present
 case, although there had been serious imputations against Ravinderpal
 Singh Sidhu being at the helm of the affairs of the State Public
 Service Commission, all decisions made by the Commission during his
 tenure are yet to be set aside. 7) Applying these principles to the facts of the case, the Court found
 that no candidate for the year 2001 had been appointed and, therefore,
 persons who were selected in that year were on a different footing as
 merely a person comes in the selected list, he has no right to be
 appointed on that ground. However, held the Court, those who had
 already been appointed and had completed about three years of service,
 some of them had even passed departmental test and some were given
 higher responsibilities and had even completed the period of probation
 or nearing the completion thereof and were working to the satisfaction
 of the authorities concerned, different yardsticks were to be applied
 while terminating their services. As a matter of fact, the Court
 found that apart from inferences drawn on certain facts and in
 particular the circumstances enumerated by the High Court, it was
 difficult to accept the contention of the State Government that it was
 absolutely impossible for it to separate the innocent candidates from
 the tainted ones. In the opinion of the Court, by appointing an
 independent scrutiny committee it was still possible to sift the
 evidence and separate tainted candidates from the innocent ones. The
 Court also recorded that relevant records were still available and had
 not been destroyed, which included question papers, answer sheets and
 other documents. Since these records were still available, a fair
 investigation into the whole affair was still possible. Such an
 exercise was, therefore, needed when it had not been found that all
 the appointments were made on extraneous considerations, including
 monetary consideration. It was, thus, held that the High Court was
 not right in applying the principle of ‘mass cheating cases’ in the
 instant case. The Court concluded the matter in the following manner: scale fraud, High Court was not right in applying the principle of
 mass cheating cases in the instant case and approve the en masse
 termination of services of the appellants by the State. (c) Impugned orders of State Government and High Court were set
 aside. Matters were remitted to High Court for consideration afresh,
 status quo to be maintained in the meantime. High Court was directed
 to constitute two independent Scrutiny Committees, one relating to the
 executive officers and the other to the judicial officers. Various
 directions were given for functioning of said Committees and
 expeditious disposal of the matters, and State was directed to file
 report in this Court in each individual case. It was further directed
 to unearth the scam and spare no officer involved in wrongdoing,
 howsoever high he may be. 8) Dealing with the case of judicial officers whose services were
 terminated, the Court took the view that they had not been fairly
 treated by the High Court and deserved better treatment. In their
 cases also the Court directed fresh inquiry. That aspect we would
 discuss in detail at the appropriate stage as in the present case we
 are not concerned with the cases of judicial officers. 9) After the judgment in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon’s case (supra), a
 Committee of three Judges of the High Court was constituted with the
 specified task to separate the tainted candidates from the non-tainted
 candidates selected to the executive post by the PSC. The said
 Committee undertook the mammoth and painstaking task with deep
 scrutiny of the case of each and every candidate. This Committee
 submitted its report dated February 08, 2007. It is pertinent to note
 that the Committee could achieve the task of segregating tainted
 candidates from the innocent ones, meaning thereby the Committee could
 pinpoint those candidates who had got selected were selected for
 oblique considerations. It meant that others against whom no such
 taint was found had been selected on their own merit and performance
 in the written examination as well as viva voce. That is the reason
 that these candidates were put in non-tainted category. However, even
 when the Committee was able to achieve this result, as mandated by
 this Court in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon’s case (supra), the Committee
 also went into another aspect, namely, whether it could be stated that
 the process of selection could be described as fraudulent, tainted and
 arbitrary. Looking into the matter from this angle, the Committee
 came to the conclusion that the entire processes of selections to the
 premier executive post was carried out by a well-planned scheme of
 deception, forgery and fraud and, therefore, deserved to be set aside
 in their entirety. The final analysis of the report dated February
 08, 2007 is as under: As it is specifically found that the aforesaid persons have indulged
 in unfair means and have been selected either by paying bribe or
 because of other extraneous reasons and not on their merit, their writ
 petitions have been rightly dismissed by the High Court. It was
 argued by Mr. Manoj Swarup, learned counsel appearing for these
 appellants, that those who are facing trial may be acquitted after
 investigation. Likewise, some of those who are even convicted, their
 appeals are pending and there is a possibility that their appeals are
 allowed thereby setting aside the conviction. Therefore, such a
 decision to terminate their services could not have been taken at this
 stage. This argument is totally unimpressive and does not hold any
 water. Such candidates who were selected with unfair and illegal
 means cannot have the audacity to say that they should be reinstated
 in service and allowed to continue till their appeals are decided. In
 any case, having found that they are tainted candidates and their
 entry into public service was soiled, the decision to terminate their
 services becomes perfectly justified. In respect of these appellants,
 the High Court has found that FIRs have been registered against them
 and they definitely carry a trace, stain or blemish that they were
 tainted. FIRs were registered when during investigation the Vigilance
 Bureau recorded statements of Mr. Sudhu, Jagman Singh and Randhir
 Singh Gill under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. The modus operandi of
 conducting the manipulations in the written examination was disclosed
 by them. Question papers were given to Mr. Jagman Singh to be shown
 to the candidates who were to appear in the written examination
 conducted by the PSC. The same were to be collected from the official
 residence of Mr. Sidhu, i.e. House No. 914, Sector-39, Chandigarh, and
 some times to be collected from Mrs. Pritpal Kaur, the mother of Mr.
 Sidhu from House No. 549, Sector-10, Chandigarh. Candidates were then
 shown these question papers during the night preceding the examination
 at the residence of Mr. Jagman Singh. The above procedure was also
 followed at the residence of the mother of Mr. Sidhu. Mr. Jagman
 Singh was deputed to the residences of influential persons for showing
 the question papers to the concerned candidates. In this backdrop, the High Court rightly covered these persons
 as tainted persons, ascribing following meaning to the expression
 'taint': tainted candidates are as under: Before discussing these cases, we would like to have a peek into
 the Report of the Committee dated February 08, 2007, which is placed
 on record. REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE DATED FEBRUARY 08, 2007 16) The report starts with noticing the directives of this Court in
 Inderpreet Singh Kahlon’s case (supra). It specifically mentions that
 to implement the directions contained in the said judgment , the then
 Acting Chief Justice had constituted a Committee of three Judges “to
 submit a report, on the basis of investigations carried out by
 officers of the State Government, so as to separate the tainted
 candidates from the non-tainted candidates, selected to executive
 posts by the Punjab Public Service Commission, during the Chairmanship
 of Shri Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu”. Thus, the Committee knew the scope
 of exercise which it was to carry out, namely, to separate the tainted
 candidates from the non-tainted candidates. This aspect is thereafter
 gone into in detail with in-depth scrutiny and analysis of the records
 and material placed before it, which not only pertained to the
 selection process, i.e. question and answer sheets, etc., but also
 records which surfaced during investigation into the FIRs filed
 against Mr. Sidhu and other persons, including some of those who were
 the selected candidates. No doubt, it was a mammoth task and it goes
 to the credit of the Committee that it could successfully achieve the
 same. After detailed and thorough analysis of all cases individually,
 the Committee was able to separate grain from the chaff,
 notwithstanding some handicaps which came its way and are specifically
 pointed out in the Report. 17) The following observations, after noticing and examining each case
 individually and separately, need a reproduction as it depicts the
 state of mental and physical exercise carried out by the Committee: tainted persons as well. 23) The question that falls for consideration is as to whether the entire
 process could be labelled as vitiated because of purported
 manipulations, forgery and fraud? Or, to put it otherwise, once the
 non-tainted persons are segregated from tainted ones, would it still
 be justified to quash the entire selection, even when non-tainted made
 into the service because of their merit? 24) It was argued by Mr. Raju Ramachandran and Mr. Gurminder Singh,
 learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants, that the mandate
 of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) was limited to one aspect only,
 namely, to segregate the cases of tainted candidates from non-tainted
 ones, if it was possible. It was their submission that after this
 task was successfully accomplished by the Committee, there was no
 occasion to go into the second aspect, which was not part of any
 direction of this Court in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra). It was
 further argued that the findings on two aspects are self-
 contradictory. Once it was accepted that some of the candidates were
 innocent, who entered the service by virtue of their merit and not
 because of any extraneous considerations and these candidates should
 be segregated as well, such a finding to the effect on the second
 aspect that the entire selection process was vitiated could not be
 arrived at. 25) We find force in the aforesaid argument advanced by the learned senior
 counsel appearing for the appellant in these set of appeals.The two
 conclusions of the High Court appear to be antithetical. Once it is
 found that segregating tainted from non-tainted is possible and is
 achieved also, other conclusion is incompatible with the first one. 26) We have already narrated the background in which judgment in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) was rendered by this Court. Those
 were the appeals filed against the Full Bench judgment in Amarbir
 Singh (supra) where the Court had held that the action of the
 Government in cancelling the entire selection process was justified. This very conclusion of the Full Bench was challenged by the
 appellants in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) with specific plea that
 it was not a case for cancelling the entire selection process and, in
 the first instance, the Court should have attempted to find out as to
 whether cases of the candidates who were tainted could be segregated
 from those who were unblemished. The court was convinced with the
 submission. While setting aside the judgment and remanding the case
 back, the Court went to the extent of holding that by clubbing
 together tainted as well as non-tainted persons, two unequal classes
 were clubbed together and it amounted to violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. It was also held that no attempt was
 made in this direction, namely, whether there was a possibility of
 segregating the two classes of persons. The Court found that as the
 relevant records were still available a fair investigation into the
 whole affair was possible. We would like to reproduce hereunder some
 portions of the judgment of S.B. Sinha, J. in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) touching upon this aspect: Seniority of those who were reselected ordinarily could not
 have been restored in their favour. Such an offer was
 evidently made as the State was not sure about the
 involvement of a large number of employees. 46. A distinction moreover exists between a proven case of
 mass cheating for a board examination and an unproven imputed
 charge of corruption where the appointment of a civil servant
 is involved. xx xx xx 50. In those cases also tainted cases were separated from
 the non-tainted cases. Only, thus, in the event it is found
 to be impossible or highly improbable, could en masse orders
 of termination have been issued. 51. Both the State Government as also the High Court in that
 view of the matter should have made all endeavours to
 segregate the tainted from the non-tainted candidates. xx xx xx 59. In a case of this nature, thus, the question which
 requires serious consideration is as to whether due to the
 misdeed of some candidates, honest and meritorious candidates
 should also suffer.” 27) After noticing the aforesaid features, the directions which are given
 for setting up of the Committee to go into the issue are contained in
 para 94, which reads as under: In that case, there were serious allegations of political
 patronage in allotment of retail outlets of petroleum
 products, (LPG distributorships and SKO-LDO dealerships).
 This Court laid down that how could a large number of
 candidates against whom there was not even insinuation be
 clubbed with handful of those who were said to have been
 allotted dealerships/distributorships on account of political
 connection and patronage? This Court clearly stated that
 the two were clearly unequals. Equal treatment to unequals
 is nothing but inequality. This is the most important
 principle which has been laid down in this case by this
 Court. The Court further observed that to put both the
 categories, tainted and the rest, on par is wholly
 unjustified, arbitrary and unconstitutional, being violative
 of Article 14 of the Constitution. In somewhat similar
 circumstances, in this case, the Government, instead of
 discharging its obligation, unjustly resorted to the
 cancellation of all the allotments en masse by treating
 unequals as equals without even prima facie examining their
 cases. Those officers whose services were affected because
 of en masse cancellation have not been given an opportunity
 to represent before the concerned authorities. In the case
 of Onkar Lal Bajaj there were 413 cases and the task was
 indeed difficult to segregate the cases of political
 connection and patronage with other cases. But, even then,
 this Court while, setting aside the order of the Government
 cancelling the allotment, appointed a Committee of two
 retired Judges, one of this Court and another from the Delhi
 High Court, and they were requested to examine all 413 cases
 and decide the matter after getting the report from that
 Committee appointed by the Court.” 29) In view of the above, the issue of entire selection process having
 been vitiated would have arisen only if the findings of the Committee
 were that it was not possible to distinguish the cases of tainted from
 the non-tainted ones and there was a possibility that all of them
 would have got the benefit of wrong doings of Mr. Sidhu and his
 accomplices. Fortunately for these appellants, it is not so as they
 have been found innocent. The appellants get ensconced, earning a safe
 place, once they are removed from the category of nefarious persons.
 Though the tainted candidates have rightly received their comeuppance,
 but the innocent persons cannot be punished with them. Thus, it is
 difficult to accept the fallibilistic conclusion of the High Court. 30) We have also gone through the reasons given by the High Court in the
 impugned judgment, in support of the conclusion that the entire
 process is to be treated as vitiated. We find that reasons are the
 same which were placed earlier before the High Court by the Government
 in Amarbir Singh 's case (supra) and they were very much before this
 Court as well when the judgment in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) was
 rendered. Without alluding to them in detail, we may say in nutshell
 that the reasons given pertain to the conduct and role of Mr. Sidhu
 and his accomplices who had taken money/bribes from some of the
 candidates or had given undue favour to some other candidates because
 of other influences. The material discussed is the allegations in
 various FIRs and statements of Mr. Jagman Singh, a confident and tout
 of Mr. Sidhu (who had become approver in the criminal case), and
 others recorded under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
 1973 and the cases in the criminal trial. However, even after
 noticing these very reasons, this Court had held that those who are
 innocent cannot be punished because of the misdeeds of Mr. Sidhu in
 showing favour to other tainted candidates. 31) There is yet another reason to hold that these persons who have come
 up clean, meaning thereby, who have entered the service by passing the
 examination on their own merits, should be allowed to continue in the
 Government service. We have already mentioned in the earlier part of
 the judgment, while discussing the case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra), that the Court had not approved the recommendation of the
 High Court, on the basis of which the Government had acted, in respect
 of the judicial officers whose services were also terminated. It is
 not necessary to state in detail the reasons given by the Court while
 condemning the action of terminating the services of the judicial
 officers, which was taken in undue haste. The Court had also remarked
 that all these judicial officers were subjected to viva voce/interview
 test as well, which was conducted as per Rule 17(a)(iii) of the Punjab
 Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1970, and no breach of
 the aid Rule had been pointed out. The Committee which interviewed
 these judicial officers included a Judge of the High Court as well.
 The Court categorically observed that there may be some cases where
 marks had been given for extraneous considerations, but only because
 there was such a possibility, the same by itself, without analysing
 more, may not be a ground for arriving at a conclusion that the entire
 selection process was vitiated. The direction was, accordingly, given
 to consider the entire matter afresh. 32) After remand the Writ petitions of these judicial officers were
 decided by the High Court in the case titled as Sirandip Singh Panag
 v. State of Punjab , 2008 (4) RSJ 288. The High Court had allowed
 those petitions. The said judgment of the High Court was challenged
 before this Court in the matter of High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh v. State of Punjab & Ors. , (2010) 11 SCC 684. This Court,
 by means of the aforesaid judgment, upheld the decision of the High
 Court. The Court specifically noted that after the directions in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra), a Committee of three Judges was
 constituted which undertook this exercise and submitted its report.
 It was a fractured report where two learned Judges of the Committee
 were of the view that entire selection process was vitiated and one
 Judge had appended his dissent thereto on the ground that only those
 who were found to be tainted and were segregated by the Committee
 should be dismissed from service and not the non-tainted officers. No
 doubt, while upholding the directions of the High Court, this Court
 made it clear that it was not to be construed as giving seal of
 approval to the judgment of the High Court. At the same time, the
 Court also stated, in so many words, that in order to work out the
 equities and to do complete justice, that it was proper to allow those
 judicial officers to continue in service who were found to be
 untainted. It would be apposite to quote the following portion of the
 said judgment in this behalf: tainted candidates, the State came forward and showed its willingness
 to take back these candidates who were non-tainted and were selected
 on the basis of their merit. A specific affidavit to this effect was
 filed in the High Court. To the same effect the affidavit has been
 filed before us also. We are of the opinion that once those untainted
 officers, who were appointed under the same environment, have been
 allowed to continue, there is no reason to deprive this benefit of
 such recourse to the PCS (Executive Branch) and Allied Services. We
 may note that the High Court has recorded in the impugned judgment
 that 66% cases were found to be of the persons given appointment who
 were tainted, which influenced the entire selection process. However,
 during the course of arguments, it was placed before us that the
 aforesaid percentage is worked out by taking the cases of direct
 recruits and nominated candidates together. If the figures are
 separately taken, out of 93 direct recruits, 76 have joined and only
 10 are found to be tainted. In fact, the percentage of such tainted
 candidates in nominated category was much higher, i.e. 80%. It was,
 thus, argued that the cases of direct recruits cannot be taken along
 with those in nominated category, who influenced the decision in their
 matter as well. This is also a supportive and important fact which
 goes in favour of these appellants viz. the non-tainted direct
 recruits. 34) The aforesaid discursive exercise prompt us to set aside the judgment
 of the High Court in respect of these persons with the direction that
 the appellants be allowed to join the duties forthwith. It is,
 however, made clear that the intervening period during which they
 remained out of service shall not count for seniority or any other
 benefit. However, these persons shall be given the benefit of service
 rendered by them earlier viz. from September 1999 till May 22, 2002,
 when they actually worked, for the purpose of seniority and future
 promotion, etc. These appeals are partly

 allowed to the aforesaid extent. There shall, however, be no order as to costs. .............................................J.
 (DR. B.S. CHAUHAN)

 .............................................J.
 (A.K. SIKRI)

NEW DELHI; MAY 23, 2014.