Two appeals have been filed against the order

 dated 28th May, 2021 passed by the Adjudicating

 Officer ('AO' for short) wherein a penalty of Rs.11

 crores has been imposed on noticee no.1, Winsome

 Yarns Ltd. i.e. the Company under Section 15HA of

 the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992

 (hereinafter referred to as ' SEBI Act ') and Section

 23E of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 3 (hereinafter referred to as 'SCRA Act') and a penalty

 of Rs.1 crore has been imposed upon noticee no.2, Mr.

 Manish Bagrodia under Section 15HA of the SEBI

 Act. 2. The facts leading to the filing of the present appeal

 is, that the Board of Directors of the Company known

 as Winsome Yarns Ltd. passed a resolution on 3rd

 September, 2010 for opening a bank account with

 European American Investment Bank AG (hereinafter

 referred to as 'EURAM Bank') for depositing the GDR

 proceeds. By the said resolution, the Managing

 Director was also authorised to sign and execute an

 agreement as may be required by the bank and take

 such steps from time to time on behalf of the

 Company. The resolution further resolved to use the

 funds so deposited in the aforesaid bank account as

 security in connection with loan, if any, as well as to

 enter into any escrow agreement or similar

 arrangements if and when so required. 4 3. The resolution approved by the Board of Directors

 resolved that a bank account would be opened with

 European American Investment Bank AG (hereinafter

 referred to as 'EURAM Bank') for the purpose of

 receiving the subscription money in respect of GDR

 issue. Further, Mr. Manish Bagrodia, Managing

 Director of the Company was authorised to sign and

 execute an agreement as may be required by the Bank

 and take such steps from time to time on behalf of the

 Company. The resolution further resolved to use the

 funds deposited in the aforesaid Bank account as

 security in connection with the loan, if any as well as

 to enter into any escrow account or similar

 arrangement if and when so required. 4. Based on the aforesaid resolution, the Company

 issued 1.99 million GDRs for USD 13.24 million dated

 29th March, 2011. The aforesaid GDR was subscribed

 by one entity, namely, Vintage FZE (hereinafter

 referred to as 'Vintage') and a corporate announcement 5 was made by the Company that the entire issue was

 subscribed. 5. Securities and Exchange Board of India

 (hereinafter referred to as 'SEBI') conducted an

 investigation pertaining to the issue of GDR by the

 Company. Based on the investigation, a show cause

 notice dated 11th September, 2019 was issued to the

 Company and its Directors to show cause as to why

 suitable directions under Section 11 and 11B should

 not be issued for violation of Section 12A(a) , (b), (c) of

 the SEBI Act read with Regulation 3(a) , (b), (c), (d)

 and 4(1), 4(2)(f), (k), (r) of the Securities and

 Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent

 and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities

 Market) Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as

 'PFUTP Regulations'), Section 21 of the Securities

 Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred

 to as the ' SCR Act ') read with Clauses 32, 36(7) and

 50 of the Listing Agreement and Section 23E of the

 SCR Act. 6. The show cause notice alleged that pursuant to the

 resolution dated 3rd September, 2010 not only a bank

 account was opened with EURAM Bank but the

 Managing Director executed a pledge agreement dated

 22nd March, 2011 on behalf of the Company based on

 which a loan agreement dated 22nd March, 2011 was

 executed between Vintage and EURAM Bank in which

 the proceeds of the GDR was to be kept as security

 with EURAM Bank. The show cause notice further

 alleged that the pledge agreement and the loan

 agreement was not disclosed to the stock exchange

 and, consequently, the investors and shareholders were

 kept in the dark. The show cause notice further alleged

 that based on the pledge agreement and the loan

 agreement EURAM Bank advanced USD 13.24

 million to Vintage which amount was utilised by

 Vintage to subscribe to the entire issue. The GDR

 proceeds were pledged as security till such time the

 loan was repaid by Vintage. It was also alleged that

 the fact that Vintage was the sole subscriber was not 7 intimated to the stock exchange and to the Indian

 investors and, accordingly, the Company and its

 Directors were charged with violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

 Regulations. 7. The AO after considering the evidence on record

 found that the entire scheme of using the GDR

 proceeds to fund a subscriber to the GDR issue was a

 fraudulent scheme and violative of Section 12A of the

 SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP

 Regulations. The AO found that the GDR was

 subscribed by one entity, namely, Vintage and not by

 six entities as disclosed by the Company vide its letter

 dated 6th July, 2015. The AO further found that on

 account of the pledge created by the Company with

 EURAM Bank the funds were not made available at

 the Company's disposal and the same became

 available in tranches as and when the loan amount was

 repaid by Vintage. Further, the loan agreement was

 not disclosed to the stock exchange and to the Indian 8 investors. Further, the disclosure made by the

 Company to the stock exchange that the GDR issue

 was fully subscribed was misleading as the investors

 were not informed that the GDR was subscribed by

 only one entity and, therefore, the scheme hatched by

 the Company and its Directors was violative of Section

 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the

 PFUTP Regulations. 8. The AO found that the non-disclosure of the loan

 agreement and the pledge agreement was violative of

 Clause 36 of the Listing Agreement as well as Section

 21 of the SCRA Act read with Clause 32 and 50 of the

 Listing Agreement since the Company had not

 complied with the accounting standards and since the

 balance lying in the EURAM Bank was not free cash.

 The AO, however, found that Vintage repaid the loan

 amount over a period of time in instalments. 9. We have heard Mr. Sajeve Bhushan Deora,

 Advocate assisted by Ms. Rasika Ghate, Advocate for

 the appellants and Mr. Sumit Rai, Advocate assisted by 9 Ms. Nidhi Singh, Ms. Deepti Mohan, Ms. Binjal

 Samani, Ms. Aditi Palnitkar and Ms. Moksha Kothari,

 Advocates for the Respondent. 10. The appellants contended that the entire fraudulent

 scheme was executed by the Lead Manager, Pan Asia

 Advisors Ltd. and its connected entities and that the

 appellants are a victim of exploitation by Vintage, Pan

 Asia Advisors Ltd. and other entities. The appellants

 denied that they have committed fraud or violated any

 provision of law and contended that the appellants

 have been subjected to the fraudulent scheme

 purported by Pan Asia Advisors Ltd., Vintage etc. The

 appellants contended that they were not in any manner

 connected with Vintage. Further, they had no

 knowledge about Vintage being the sole subscriber to

 the GDR issue until the receipt of the show cause

 notice. The appellants further denied that they had

 violated any clause of the Listing Agreement and

 contended that all information was duly disclosed to

 the stock exchange as and when a material event had 10 occurred. The appellants further denied signing the

 pledge agreement and contended that it had never

 authorised EURAM Bank to create a pledge and only

 came to know when the show cause notice was issued.

 It was urged that the GDR proceeds were utilised in

 accordance with the objects of the GDR and there was

 no diversion of money nor has the appellant indulged

 in any wrong doing. Further, there was no complaint

 with regard any unlawful or disproportionate gain or

 any loss caused to the shareholders or to the investors.

 It was urged that the appellant, being a small

 Company, has not played any fraud upon the market

 and violation, if any, is confined to non-disclosure

 under the Listing agreement for which purpose the

 penalty awarded was wholly excessive, harsh and

 disproportionate. 11. It was urged that all approvals and compliances

 were met by the appellant Company pertaining to the

 GDR issue from BSE and NSE and filing with the

 Luxembourg Stock Exchange for listing of the GDR 11 which eventually led to the approval and the issue of

GDR. It was also urged that Pan Asia Advisors Ltd.,

were renowned Lead Managers and registered in U.K.

and were known to have conducted several GDRs and

based on their reputation had appointed Pan Asia

Advisors Ltd. as Lead Manager who advised the

Company on how to proceed with the GDR without

realising that they had played a fraud upon the

Company and its Directors. It was contended that post

GDR issue the GDR funds were moved from the

escrow account to current account with EURAM Bank.

Further, BSE and NSE approved the listing of

securities and Luxembourg Stock Exchange listed the

GDR for trading and filings were completed with

Reserve Bank of India ('RBI' for short). It was

contended that the returns as prescribed by RBI was

duly filed by every quarter and within the time

provided for the purpose. As per the provisions of the

master circular issued by RBI dated 2nd July, 2007 it

was contended that the funds raised in overseas market 12 was required to be maintained outside India and if not

 utilised it should be brought back to India when to be

 put to use. It was contended that this circular was duly

 followed and returns as prescribed by RBI was duly

 filed. 12. The appellant contended that as per the listing

 prospectus the GDR proceeds were required to be

 utilised in the following manner.  Capital expenditure for setting up a 10MT Dyeing
 Unit at Derabassi
  Strengthening of Net Working Capital
  Overseas Investments
  Other Corporate purposes 13. It was urged that the proceeds have been utilised

 for the purpose shown in the listing prospectus. It was

 urged that the GDR funds of USD 3,78,865 were

 utilised to pay cost of the issue. USD 9,33,004 were

 utilised overseas and USD 71,66,925 were received in

 India towards strengthening the networking of the

 Company. It was contended that more than 60% of the

 funds have come back to India and has been utilised as 13 per the purpose specified in the listing prospectus. It

 was also urged that the GDR funds amounting to USD

 47,62,125 which was to be used for setting up Yarn

 Dying Plant abroad could not be utilised on account of

 recession as a result of which the amount had remained

 invested in the money market instrument with Aries

 Capital Fund Ltd., which is a fund in Mauritius and

 regulated by Financial Services Commission of

 Mauritius. It was urged that the said amount has

 increased to USD 48,19,990 as on 31st December, 2019

 and 49,73,276.84 as on 31st December, 2020 14. It was also urged that the appellants had engaged a

 professional for managing the issue and other

 connected matters post the issue. The appellant had

 appointed the Bank of New York and Mellon which

 acted as a Depository Bank and Development Bank of

 Singapore acted as a custodian of GDR. Further,

 Sharma & Co. (London) was appointed as a Legal

 Counsel who rendered legal opinion that all acts, deeds

 and things done were in compliance with the 14 applicable law and that Lex Favios, New Delhi were

 appointed as the Indian Legal Advocate who rendered

 legal opinion that all acts, deeds and things of the

 parties were in compliance with applicable laws in

 India. It was, thus, contended that due diligence was

 complied at all levels and there was no intent to get

 involved in any fraudulent scheme. 15. On the other hand, the respondent supported the

 impugned order and contended that the modus

 operandi is the same as has been dealt with by this

 Tribunal in a large number of matters relating to the

 GDR issue wherein this Tribunal has held that the non-

 disclosure of the loan agreement and the pledge

 agreement was totally fraudulent and violative of the

 Listing Agreement. 16. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, in

 our opinion, the contentions raised by the appellant

 cannot be accepted. The signature of the Managing

 Director/Director on the pledge agreement has not

 been disputed before us and it cannot be believed that 15 such signatures on such important documents were

 signed without their knowledge or in ignorance or in

 good faith at the instance of the Lead Manager.

 Further, when they came to know of the fraud, no steps

 were taken to lodge a complaint or an FIR. Not only

 this, we find that based on the pledge agreement, the

 GDR proceeds were blocked for a certain period of

 time and it was not possible for the Company and its

 Directors to contend that they were not aware that the

 GDR proceeds had been frozen on account of the

 pledge agreement. Thus, in view of the aforesaid we

 are of the firm view that the appellants were aware of

 the execution of the pledge agreement and had signed

 with open eyes and had knowledge. The appellants

 consequently cannot deny the existence of the loan

 agreement executed between Vintage and EURAM

 Bank. 17. The appellants also misled SEBI into believing that

 there were six subscribers to the issue. Investigation

 found that there was only one subscriber. Explanation 16 given by the Company and its Directors that the Lead

 Manager had supplied the information which were

 forwarded to SEBI in good faith cannot be believed.

 At the end of the day, the responsibility lies with the

 Company to forward such information which are true

 and the blame cannot be passed to another entity. 18. Since we have already held that the appellants were

 aware of the pledge agreement, non-disclosure of the

 pledge agreement invited penalty. Further, the

 corporate announcement did not disclose the fact that

 the subsisting pledge agreement facilitated one

 subscriber to subscribe to the GDR issue. The

 corporate announcement was misleading and presented

 a distorted version to the investors and created a false

 version inducing the investors to deal in securities. 19. There is no doubt that the proceeds of the GDR

 issue was eventually received by the Company. More

 than 60% i.e. USD 71,66,925 has been received in

 India and has been utilised as per the Listing

 prospectus. A sum of USD 47,62,125 which was to be 17 utilised for setting up a subsidiary plant abroad which

 has swelled up to USD 49,73,276.84 as on 31st

 December, 2020 remains invested in money market

 instruments with Aries Capital Fund Limited. These

 facts have not been disputed by the respondent. Thus,

 there has been no diversion of money and there is no

 wrongful dealing in securities other than the fact that

 USD 6.05 million was deducted by EURAM Bank for

 a default committed by Vintage. The AO has himself

 given a finding that no disproportionate gain is

 attributed to the appellants. No finding has been given

 by the AO that any loss was caused to the shareholders

 or investors. 20. We are accordingly of the opinion that in view of

 the fact that the appellant is a small listed Company the

 directions issued by the WTM and the penalty imposed

 by the AO is excessive and arbitrary as well as

 discriminatory. 21. In Excel Corp. (supra) the Supreme Court held: 18 22. Similar view was expressed by the Delhi High

 court in Rajkumar Dyeing and Printing Works Pvt.

 Ltd. In Rajendra Yadav, the Supreme Court held that

 the doctrine of equality applies to all those who are

 found guilty. The Supreme Court held: 23. Undoubtedly, the doctrine of proportionality is

 now well established in our jurisprudence and is a

 recognised facet of Article 14 of the Constitution of

 India. In Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development

 Corporation Federation vs. B. Narasimha Reddy and

 Others (2011) 9 SCC 286, the Supreme Court held: 24. In matters relating to punitive measures the

 emphasis has shifted from the wednesbury principle of

 unreasonable to one of proportionality. A

 disproportionate punitive measure which does not

 commensurate with the offence would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. We are of the

 opinion that in the rapid growth of administrative law

 it has become the need and necessity to control

 possible abuse of discriminatory power by

 administrative authorities. In this regard, certain

 principles have been evolved by Courts, namely, that if

 an action is taken by an authority which is contrary to 21 law or which is improper or where the action taken is

 unreasonable then the Court of law is duty bound to

 interfere with such action and one such mode of

 exercising power is to exercise the doctrine of

 proportionality. Where the punitive measure is harsh

 or disproportionate to the offence which shocks the

 conscience it is within the discretion of the Court to

 exercise the doctrine of proportionality and reduce the

 quantum of punishment to ensure that some rationality

 is brought to make unequals equal. 25. A penalty has also been imposed for violation of

 Section 23E of the SCRA Act for non-disclosure under

 the Listing Agreement. The imposition of penalty

 under Section 23E is wholly erroneous in as much as

 Section 23E is not applicable. 26. In Suzlon Energy Ltd. v. SEBI , appeal no.201 of

 2018 decided on 3rd May, 2021, this Tribunal held: 27. In this regard, the appellants have produced various

 orders passed by SEBI against various companies and

 its Directors wherein different penalties have been

 imposed for similar/identical offence. In the instant

 case, the AO has penalised the appellant Company of

 Rs.11,00,00,000/- and the Managing Director

 Rs.1,00,00,000/-. In similar matters lesser penalty has

 been awarded. For facility, a comparative table is

 given hereunder: 28. A perusal of the aforesaid table indicates that G.V.

 Films Ltd. had raised 40 million USD and the

 Company was only awarded a penalty of

 Rs.25,00,000/-. Another Company Syncom Healthcare

 Ltd., raised 20.74 million USD and was awarded a

 penalty of Rs.25 lakhs whereas in the case of the

 appellant Company who raised 6.99 million USD has

 been awarded Rs.10,30,00,000/-. In Sybly Industries

 Ltd. v. SEBI , appeal no.381 of 219 and other

 connected appeals decided on 14th July, 2022

 penalties ranging from Rs.10 lakhs to Rs.10.30 crores

 were imposed which were reduced to Rs.25 lakhs on

 the Company and Rs.10 lakhs on the Managing

 Director. Thus, in our opinion, the penalty imposed is

 excessive and disproportionate to the violation and is

 also discriminatory. 29. We find that such excessive penalty imposed upon

 the Company does not make any sense. In the instant

 case, there are public shareholders and workers. The

 Company is a running concern. Penalising the

 Company with such heavy penalty is in fact penalising

 the shareholders which is not justifiable especially for

 a running company. Further, the money raised through

 GDRs has been received by the Company and has not

 been misappropriated. The same has been utilitised for

 the purpose for which the GDR was issued which fact

 has not been disputed. Thus, it is not a case of

 defalcation of the funds. 30. Consequently, while affirming the order of the AO

 for the violations committed by the Company we

 reduce the penalty against the Company to Rs.25 lakhs

 and the penalty against the Managing Director to Rs.10

 lakhs. The appeals are partly allowed. 31. This order will be digitally signed by the Private

 Secretary on behalf of the bench and all concerned

 parties are directed to act on the digitally signed copy 26 of this order. Certified copy of this order is also

 available from the Registry on payment of usual

 charges. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member

 RAJALA Digitally
 by
 signed

 KSHMI NAIR
 RAJALAKSHMI H

19.7.2022 Date: 2022.07.21
 H NAIR 14:12:28 +05'30'
RHN