In yet another Aadhaar fraud case, four young men in their 20s were arrested in Uttar Pradesh for tampering with Aadhaar’s systems. They had manipulated the biometric data of over 1,500 Aadhaar cardholders, said Sambhal SP Krishna Kumar Bishnoi.

The criminal group was headed by the ‘mastermind’ Ashish Kumar, a B.Tech dropout . Their network allegedly had 200–300 “retailers” spread across over 12 states in the country , including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and West Bengal, as reported by the media.

These so-called retailers allegedly acted as agents or intermediaries for the group of hackers. They collected documents from individuals seeking to alter their Aadhaar details illegally. The group charged between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 per alteration, according to the police.

Ashish Kumar developed free fake websites designed to mimic the official (Unique Identification Authority of India) UIDAI and Passport Seva portals. These pseudo-government websites were then used to collect fake document data from retailers and agents.

These fake platforms were also used to generate fraudulent supporting documents to alter Aadhaar data. These documents included fake passports, said Bishnoi. Fake ration cards and fake birth certificates were also created and submitted as proof to generate fake Aadhaar IDs. “Over 20 fake passports, several of which were successfully uploaded to UIDAI for validation,” said the police.

The group managed to manipulate Aadhaar systems by impersonating authorized Aadhaar operators. They were able to bypass sensitive biometric security measures such as iris scans, fingerprints, and even geo-fencing restrictions, altering the Aadhaar database using fraudulent documents.

Fake thumb imprints were taken from unsuspecting real operators from economically weaker sections. Kasim Hussain, a co-accused, allegedly played a key role in modifying fingerprint scanners. “This allowed them to bypass Aadhaar’s real-time biometric locks,” said ASP Sharma.

This crime—creating fake Aadhaar identities using forged documents—is yet another damning indictment of the security vulnerabilities in the Aadhaar system. Their “ secured ” systems seem to have always broken. There were multiple instances of such serious sneak-ins by hackers.

The World Economic Forum’s Global Risks Report 2019 , said that Aadhaar’s data breach was the biggest data breach in the world. “Aadhaar reportedly suffered multiple breaches that potentially compromised the records of all 1.1 billion registered citizens. In January 2018, it was reported that criminals were selling access to the database at a rate of Rs 500 for 10 minutes, while in March, a leak at a state-owned utility company allowed anyone to download names and ID numbers,” the report said .

In 2023, Gujarat’s cyber police stated that creating fake Aadhaar cards had become a matter of just a few clicks. They referred to a fraudulent website that had more than 10 million downloads of fake Aadhaar IDs.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event