Hi jora, My name is jackie, and i would like to inform you that i applied one of your recommended job last december 31, 2018 and i've been invited for an interview and examination last january 03, 2019. The job recommendation was named under lbc philippines but when i've got the text message jan. 02 2019 inviting me for an interview the name was under cebuana lhuiller and not lbc phil. I still tried to attend for the said invitation located at unit p6 inside muñoz market quezon city. I've take their exam and got interview with the said hr supervisor named sir lou (A gay). There are many applicants who attend for the exam and interview but only few o[censored]s was chosen to be qualified and i am one of them. After being chosen sir lou held an orientation discussing the benefits, salary and in which branch you will be assign after the training, he told us that cebuana lhuiller has back office in different area here in ncr (But after 3 days of training at their office we found out there is no other office extension of cebuana, its only in makati where you can apply for their available position). January 03 on the same day of exam and interview he told us to pass the requirements on the following day which is january 04, 2019 and he said that only on that day will be the deadline of submission of the requirements such as nso birth cert., trascript of record, diploma, barangay certificate, and medical. He gave us a small piece of paper where the lab address for medical was located. January 04, 2019 we comply for the said requirements on that day they told us that it was also the day for contract signing (The contract was only discussing about the terms and policy of their company, no salary was declared, and even no job position was inclued, there is no name of cebuana on the contract). After giving them the requirements and after signing the said unknown contract they told us that we have to pay for about 150.00php to be use for the xerox copy of our manual, xerox copy for the test paper and etc. The training has been held january 04 (Friday), 05 (Saturday) and january 07 (Monday). On the last day of training they told us that they will evaluate the examination and we have to wait for their advise through text on tuesday until friday of january 11, 2019. I and two of my co-applicants were waiting for the advise until friday but we didn't received any of their advise we even follow up the result before the said day but they did not response to our question. Saturday january 12, 2019 we decided to come on their office to check our application they told us that we have to wait within that day until 5pm, we've got shocked when they told us that after the said 3 days training there is a chance that some o[censored]s will be pass and some o[censored]s will be failed and it depends upon the result of the evaluation. We understand the policy but we did not understand why they have to collect the requirements first and why we have to proceed to have a medical examination first before they allowed us to be trained. The 150.00php has been collected but we didn't even see where the money was spend. We didn't see the xerox copy, they don't even give us any manuals. On the same day of january 12 at 5.30pm we decided to follow up our application and wow we've got surprised that no one of our batch was pass the training, that would be questionable. Why they have to collect our medical result before they allowed us to proceed on the training. The medical was about 970.00 and 150.00. The issue is they should not request the medical if they were not sure if the applicant will pass the training or not, the money we spend was not a joke its a big deal for us that we have to submit first the requirements before we know who will pass the training and who will be failed. They did not tell us that clearly. My number is [protected] i hope you will attend to this and find some actions for this kind of fake job offer. I am looking forward for the sooner response to this matter. To make the story short the said job offer we found in jora was fake and scam. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)