MediaNama’s Take : Real-money gaming startup Gameskraft Technologies has been dealt a major blow after its former Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Ramesh Prabhu, was charged with diverting company funds over 3-4 years for personal investments.

The allegations come at a time when Gameskraft is in crisis mode. The company has laid off 120 employees in an attempt to recover from the chilling effects of India’s complete ban on real-money gaming . At the same time, top executives, including former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Vikas Taneja and cofounder and former Chief Operating Officer (COO) Divya Agarwal, have stepped down from the company.

Furthermore, the ongoing Gameskraft scandal has turned the spotlight on increasing instances of fraud within the Indian startup ecosystem. Earlier in April, market regulator SEBI accused listed firm Gensol Engineering of diverting funds and falsifying documents, which forced electric mobility startup BluSmart to suspend its operations.

Over the past few years, the likes of Medikabazaar, GoMechanic, and BharatPe have also been marred by allegations of fraud and corporate governance lapses. Such mishaps will only erode investor trust and tarnish the broader perception of startups.

A First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against Ramesh Prabhu, former CFO of Gameskraft, in Bengaluru for allegedly syphoning off funds amounting to Rs 270.43 crore from the company over a period of nearly five years.

The matter came to light after Gulshan Yadav, Vice President of Gameskraft, lodged a complaint with the Marathahalli police station on September 9. MediaNama has reviewed a copy of the FIR.

The FIR cites Prabhu as admitting his misconduct in a confession email that he wrote to Gameskraft on March 5. While Prabhu insisted that no other employee was complicit or aware of his scam, the incident has raised concerns over potential corporate governance and auditing lapses at the Bengaluru-based gaming company.

As per the complaint, Prabhu “dishonestly” syphoned off funds from the company over the past 3-4 years for personal equity and futures & options (F&O) trading, which led to losses exceeding Rs 250 crore.

In the FIR, Gameskraft said it conducted a “fact-finding” review following Prabhu’s confession, which revealed he had carried out “unauthorised” transactions worth Rs 231.39 crore between FY20 and FY25.

Of this, Rs 211.53 crore was shown as “investments” in the company’s books, which had a carrying value of Rs 250.57 crore as of March 31, 2024. An additional Rs 19.8 crore was recorded as investment in FY25. Due to this, the company had to write off Rs 270.43 crore in its financial statements for FY25, the FIR states.

Prabhu is currently absconding. He has been booked under sections 303 (theft), 316 (criminal breach of trust), 323 (fraudulent concealment of property), 335 and 336 (forgery) and 344 (falsification of accounts) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita.

Further investigation by Gameskraft revealed that Prabhu executed the said unauthorised trades through a bank account with RBL Bank, which he had sole control over. He allegedly diverted/misappropriated funds through this account to his personal bank account, which was “falsely” recorded as investments in the company’s books.

According to the FIR, Prabhu went so far as to alter the company’s bank statements and create fake mutual fund statements as proof of investments in an attempt to cover up his misdoings.

Gameskraft further accused Prabhu of deliberately engaging in forgery, falsifying financial records, and hiding the true nature of the transactions, all of which, the company stated, displayed a clear intent to syphon off funds for personal gains. The complaint also mentioned that Prabhu has been absent from work since March 1, 2025. After sending an email around that time, he became untraceable, with all attempts by the company to reach him or determine his location proving unsuccessful.

The development comes at a time when the Indian government has imposed a blanket ban on real-money games (RMG) in the country. Following the introduction of the Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Act, 2025 , several platforms have shut down their real-money operations, including Gameskraft, Dream 11, Mobile Premier League (MPL) and Zupee, among others.

Last week, Hike became the latest casualty of India’s ban on real-money games, with its founder, Kavin Bharti Mittal, son of Airtel founder Bharti Mittal, saying the company was completely winding down its operations in India.

Besides burning a hole in the businesses of real-money gaming firms, the ban has also triggered mass layoffs at such platforms, with job cuts said to have affected over 2,000 employees at companies including MPL, Games24x7, PokerBaazi and Head Digital.

On Thursday, Gameskraft also said it was axing about 120 jobs across various teams and functions as part of its restructuring plans.

Gameskraft Technologies, founded in 2017 by Prithvi Singh, discontinued its rummy apps, including Rummyculture, last month after New Delhi banned the real-money gaming sector. In May last year, the company had also halted operations of its online poker platform Pocket52.

Adding to its troubles, the company saw a 25% decline in its net profit to Rs 706 crore in FY25 from Rs 947 crore in FY24. The degrowth in its bottom line came even as revenue from operations rose 12% to Rs 3,896 crore in FY25 from Rs 3,475 crore in the preceding financial year.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event