V. Gopala Gowda, J. Leave granted. 2. This appeal is directed against the common judgment and order dated
28.09.2006 passed in CMA No. 2858 of 2002 and CMA No. 2859 of 2002 of the
High Court of Andhra Pradesh as it has set aside the judgment and decree of
divorce granted in favour of the appellant-husband dissolving the marriage
between the appellant and respondent by dismissing the Original Petition
No. 203 of 2000 filed by the appellant for dissolution of their marriage
under Section 13 (1)(iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (in short ‘the
Act’) and allowing the Original Petition No. 1 of 1999 filed by the
respondent-wife against the appellant by granting restitution of conjugal
rights urging various facts and legal contentions. 3. The factual and rival legal contentions urged on behalf of the parties
are adverted to in this judgment with a view to examine the tenability of
the appellant's submissions. The relevant facts are stated as hereunder: 4. It is the case of both the parties that when they were living at New
Delhi, the brother of the appellant died in an accident. At that point of
time, the appellant herein came to Yanam (Andhra Pradesh) leaving the
respondent at Delhi, who gave birth to a female child on 07.07.1997. It is contended by the learned senior counsel for the appellant,
Mr.Jaideep Gupta, in the pleadings that dispute arose between the appellant
and his parents on the one hand and the in-laws of the deceased brother of
the appellant on the other. There were threats to kill the appellant.
During that period, respondent’s father stayed in the company of the
appellant and his parents at Yanam. At that time, both the appellant and
the respondent suffered tensions and they were restless on account of the
situation created by the in-laws of the appellant’s deceased brother. Both
of them received medical treatment and due to depression, appellant
submitted his resignation and the respondent also resigned from her job at
AIIMS. The appellant then joined as Assistant Professor in Gandhi Hospital
at Secunderabad. The respondent and the child also joined him at Hyderabad.
 It is their further case that while they were in Hyderabad, the appellant
used to receive threatening calls from the in-laws of his deceased brother
which used to create tension in their family. The respondent was treated
for hypothyroidism problem. 5. In the counter statement filed by the respondent, she contended that
after one year of their marriage, the appellant and his parents started
harassing her by demanding colour television, refrigerator etc. In May
1998, after the death of the father of the respondent, the appellant went
on insisting that the respondent gets the house situated at Rajahmundry
registered in his name and when she refused, he started to torture her.
The respondent applied for post-graduate entrance examination, which was
scheduled to be held on 13.08.1998, and the appellant was making
arrangements to go to Madras on 12.08.1998 in connection with FRCS
admission. On 11.08.1998, the appellant picked up a quarrel with the
respondent insisting that she must get the house at Rajahmundry registered
in his name to which she did not agree. The respondent also requested him
not to go to Madras as she has to appear for the Post-Graduate entrance
examination on 13.08.1998 for which the respondent alleged that the
appellant badly tortured her both physically and mentally. A telegram was
sent to her mother with false allegations of her mental illness with a view
to create evidence as he could have as well conveyed the message through
telephone as there was telephone facility at the house of her parents. As
the appellant was preparing to appear for FRCS examination and would spend
most of his time in the libraries and the respondent and their child would
be left alone without help, he suggested that the appellant should go to
Rajahmundry and stay with her parents to which she agreed and went to
Rajahmundry and joined Chaitanya Nursing Home and Bhavani Nursing Home to
work as a doctor. In the second week of November, 1998, the appellant came
to Rajahmundry and asked the respondent to go to Yanam and stay with his
parents saying that she can have the company of his parents and she can
carry on the medical profession along with his father who was also a doctor
to which she agreed. Thereafter, the appellant got issued a notice dated
25.11.1998 to the respondent making certain false allegations saying that
she was suffering from schizophrenia and she had suicidal tendencies etc.,
with the object of marrying again for fat dowry. The respondent has denied
that she suffered from schizophrenia or suicidal tendencies and further
stated that during her delivery days and subsequently on account of the
threats received from in-laws of the appellant’s deceased brother, there
was some depression for which the respondent was treated and the appellant
never allowed her to go through the prescriptions of her treatment at
anytime and she was also not allowed to see the medicines given to her as
part of treatment for her depression. It is stated by her that she
believes that as part of the ill motive of the appellant, he might have
administered some medicines to build up a false case against her with a
view to file petition for dissolution of marriage. The respondent got
issued a reply notice to the lawyer of the appellant mentioning the above
facts on 18.12.1998. 6. It is further contended by the learned senior counsel for the
respondent, Mr. Pallav Sisodia, that the appellant never cared for her and
encouraged his parents to dislodge her from the family house. She filed
O.S. No.53 of 1998 on the file of District Munsif’s Court, Yanam for
permanent injunction against the parents of the appellant and filed
Interlocutory Application No. 237 of 1998 for temporary injunction against
them not to evict her from the residential house where she was staying. It
is further stated that the appellant has no right to withdraw from her
society and demand for divorce and that she is entitled for restitution of
conjugal rights. It is contended by the respondent that the impugned
judgment is a well-considered judgment both on facts and in law and the
Division Bench of the High Court rightly allowed the appeals filed by the
respondent refusing to grant a decree of divorce in favour of the appellant
and granting a decree for restitution of conjugal rights in favour of the
respondent. Therefore, the respondent has prayed for dismissal of the
petition filed by the appellant praying for grant of decree of divorce
against her. 7. The appellant filed the counter statement to the petition for
 restitution of conjugal rights denying the allegations made in the
 petition. He contended that the behaviour of the respondent even when
 they were staying at New Delhi was marked by emotional disturbances and
 she also received treatment from a psychiatrist there. He has further
 stated that he underwent severe mental stress due to irrational
 behavioural pattern of the respondent. Her erratic behaviour started
 increasing as time passed by. She started manifesting symptoms of
 schizophrenia like violent or aggressive behaviour and a tendency to be
 harsh and hostile towards other members of the family without any reason
 whatsoever which were not visible earlier. For that reason, she was kept
 with her parents’ family so that she can develop a sense of security
 which is required for patients suffering from schizophrenia. He has
 further stated that she also started developing the symptoms like sudden
 withdrawal and being silent for long periods without any communication. 8. Further, he has stated that after the death of his brother, he brought
his wife and child to Hyderabad where he had secured a job as Assistant
Professor of Orthopaedics in Gandhi Medical College. He further contended
that on account of the death of his brother, tension developed in his
family and that neither he nor his family members harassed the respondent
demanding goods etc. He also stated that at the time of marriage, mental
status of the respondent was not known to him. Further, the respondent
tried to evict his parents from their house at Yanam and when she failed in
her attempt, she filed O.S. No. 53 of 1998 at District Munsif’s Court,
Yanam which shows her erratic attitude towards the parents of the
appellant. 9. The respondent fell seriously ill due to which the appellant sent her
mother a telegram to come and take care of her. She went to live with her
mother at Rajahmundry as she consulted some psychiatrists who advised her
to live with her mother. The appellant visited her after two weeks and
found that her mental condition had aggravated to such a point that it
would be impossible for him to live with her as her husband. He contended
that she was showing all the classical symptoms of schizophrenia including
violence, psychotic behaviour, suicidal tendencies, withdrawal symptoms and
abnormal and irrational behaviour including in the matter of her speech and
her conversation. She also used to say that she would like to commit
suicide and he was, thus, worried about her and the child. The respondent
was continuously on psychiatric treatment. The above facts were narrated
by the appellant in his divorce petition filed before the trial court. He
has further contended that under the circumstances narrated above, it was
impossible for him to resume cohabitation with the respondent as he was
afraid of danger to his life and that of his daughter and therefore, he
requested the Court for grant of a decree of divorce and that the
respondent’s petition for restitution of conjugal rights be dismissed as
she is not entitled to the relief prayed for by her. 10. The learned trial Judge in his judgment held that the appellant is
 entitled to a decree of divorce if not annulment of marriage and that
 since the disease of the respondent was not disclosed to the appellant
 before marriage, she is not entitled to a decree of restitution of
 conjugal rights. As a result, O.P. 1/99 filed by the respondent for
 restitution of conjugal rights was dismissed and O.P.203/2000 filed by
 the appellant for grant of divorce was allowed by dissolving the marriage
 between the appellant and the respondent and decree of divorce was
 granted. 11. The trial court relied on the certified copy of report from Institute
of Mental Health, Government Hospital for Mental Care, Sanjeeva Reddy
Nagar, Hyderabad, bearing No. A and D/402/99 submitted to the Registrar
(Judicial) High Court of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad, marked as Exh. B-10,
given as per procedure and by conducting chemical examination etc. It is
stated that the report clearly showed that the respondent is suffering from
schizophrenia. The trial court relied on the case of Tarlochan Singh Vs.
Jit Kaur ,[1] where it was held that since the fact of the wife being a
patient of schizophrenia was not disclosed to the husband before marriage,
it would amount to matrimonial fraud and therefore it was held the husband
was entitled to decree of divorce if not annulment of marriage. 12. Being aggrieved by the common judgment and decree of the trial court
passed in O.P. Nos. 1/99 and 203/2000 the respondent filed appeals before
the High Court of Andhra Pradesh questioning the correctness of the same
urging various grounds. The High Court on re-appreciation of pleadings and
evidence held that there is no positive evidence to show that the
respondent has suffered schizophrenia and even in the case that she
suffered from schizophrenia, it cannot be said that she was suffering from
such a serious form of the disease that it would attract the requirements
of Section 13 (1) (iii) of the Act for grant of decree for dissolution of
marriage between the parties. 13. On perusal of the facts and legal evidence on record and hearing rival
legal contentions urged by both the parties, the points that would arise
for consideration of this Court are: 2) Whether the High Court has correctly re-appreciated the facts
 pleaded and evidence on record while dismissing the divorce
 petition of the appellant and allowing the petition for
 restitution of conjugal rights of the respondent? 3) Whether the appeal filed by the appellant has to be allowed and
 we must restore the judgment and decree of trial court and
 dismiss the petition for conjugal rights filed by the
 respondent? 4) What order? 14. Answer to point nos.1 to 3: material mental world with its existence only spatially and not
 temporally. There is, again, the theory which stresses the
 neurological basis of the “mental phenomenon” by asserting the
 functional correlation of the neuronal arrangements of the brain with
 mental phenomena. The “behaviourist” tradition, on the other hand,
 interprets all reference to mind as “constructs” out of behaviour.
 “Functionalism”, however, seems to assert that mind is the logical or
 functional state of physical systems. But all theories seem to
 recognise, in varying degrees, that the psychometric control over the
 mind operates at a level not yet fully taught to science. When a
 person is oppressed by intense and seemingly insoluble moral dilemmas,
 or when grief of loss of dear ones etch away all the bright colours of
 life, or where a broken marriage brings with it the loss of emotional
 security, what standards of normalcy of behaviour could be formulated
 and applied? The arcane infallibility of science has not fully
 pervaded the study of the non-material dimensions of “being”. 22. Speaking of the indisposition of science towards this study, a
 learned Author says: 23. Lord Wilberforce, referring to the psychological basis of
 physical illness said that the area of ignorance of the body-mind
 relation seems to expand with that of knowledge. In McLoughlin v. O’
 Brian, the learned Lord said, though in a different context: (All ER
 p. 301)

 “Whatever is unknown about the mind-body relationship (and the area of
 ignorance seems to expand with that of knowledge), it is now accepted
 by medical science that recognisable and severe physical damage to the
 human body and system may be caused by the impact, through the senses,
 of external events on the mind. There may thus be produced what is as
 identifiable an illness as any that may be caused by direct physical
 impact. It is safe to say that this, in general terms, is understood
 by the ordinary man or woman who is hypothesised by the courts...” 24. But the illnesses that are called “mental” are kept
 distinguished from those that ail the “body” in a fundamental way. In
 “Philosophy and Medicine”, Vol. 5 at page X the learned Editor refers
 to what distinguishes the two qualitatively: The Allahabad High Court, in Mt. Tilti Vs. Alfred Rebert Jones[6] has held
that where it has come on record that the wife has improved her educational
qualifications and has been looking after her children, the apprehension of
the husband that there is danger to his life or to his children is not
borne out is the finding recorded in the said case. Inability to manage
his or her affairs is an essential attribute of an “incurably unsound
mind”. The facts pleaded and the evidence placed on record produced by the
appellant in this case does not establish such inability as a ground on
which dissolution of marriage was sought for by him before the trial court. 19. The High Court has rightly set aside the said finding and allowed the
appeal of the respondent after careful scrutiny of Exh.B-10. The
correctness of the finding of the High Court in the impugned judgment is
seriously challenged by the learned senior counsel on behalf of the
appellant in this appeal. We have examined this contention, after careful
perusal of the contents of Exh.B-10. In our considered view, the contents
of the report as stated by the team of doctors do not support the case of
the appellant that the respondent is suffering from a serious case of
schizophrenia, in order to grant the decree of divorce under Section 13(1) (iii) of the Act. The report states that the respondent, although suffering
from ‘illness of schizophrenic type’, does not show symptoms of psychotic
illness at present and has responded well to the treatment from the acute
phases and her symptoms are fairly under control with the medication which
had been administered to her. It was further stated that if there is good
compliance with treatment coupled with good social and family support, a
schizophrenic patient can continue their marital relationship. In view of
the aforesaid findings and reasons recorded, we have to hold that the
patient is not suffering from the symptoms of schizophrenia as detailed
above. 20. We are of the view that the High Court in exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction has rightly come to a different conclusion that the respondent
is not suffering from the ailment of schizophrenia or incurable unsoundness
of mind. Further, the High Court has rightly rejected the finding of the
trial court which is based on exh.B-10 and other documentary and oral
evidence by applying the ratio laid down by this Court in the case of Ram
Narain Gupta vs. Rameshwari Gupta referred to supra. A pertinent point to
be taken into consideration is that the respondent had not only completed
MBBS but also did a post graduate diploma in Medicine and was continuously
working as a Government Medical Officer and had she been suffering from any
serious kind of mental disorder, particularly, acute type of schizophrenia,
it would have been impossible for her to work in the said post. The
appellant-husband cannot simply abandon his wife because she is suffering
from sickness. Therefore, the High Court allowed both the CMAs and
dismissed O.P. No. 203/2000 filed by the appellant for divorce and allowed
O.P. No.1/99 filed by the respondent for restitution of conjugal rights
wherein the High Court granted decree of restitution of conjugal rights in
favour of the respondent. 21. It is thus clear that the respondent, even if she did suffer from
schizophrenia, is in a much better health condition at present. Therefore,
this Court cannot grant the dissolution of marriage on the basis of one
spouse's illness. The appellant has not proved the fact of mental disorder
of the respondent with reference to the allegation made against her that
she has been suffering from schizophrenia by producing positive and
substantive evidence on record and on the other hand, it has been proved
that the respondent is in much better health condition and does not show
signs of schizophrenia as per the most recent medical report from NIMHANS,
as deposed by PW-4 in his evidence before the trial court. 22. For the aforesaid reasons, we are of the firm view that the findings
and reasons recorded in setting aside the judgment and decree of the trial
court is neither erroneous nor does it suffer from error in law which
warrants our interference and calls for setting aside the impugned judgment
and decree of the first appellate court. Therefore, this Court cannot
interfere with the impugned judgment of the High Court as the same is well-
reasoned and based on cogent reasoning of facts and evidence on record and
accordingly, we answer point no.4 in favour of the respondent. 23. Under Hindu law, marriage is an institution, a meeting of two hearts
and minds and is something that cannot be taken lightly. In the Vedic
period, the sacredness of the marriage tie was repeatedly declared; the
family ideal was decidedly high and it was often realised[7]. In Vedic
Index I it is stated that “The high value placed on the marriage is shown
by the long and striking hymn”. In Rig Veda, X, 85; “Be, thou, mother of
heroic children, devoted to the Gods, Be, thou, Queen in thy father-in-
law’s household. May all the Gods unite the hearts of us “two into one” as
stated in Justice Ranganath Misra’s ‘Mayne’s Treatise on Hindu Law and
Usage’[8]. Marriage is highly revered in India and we are a Nation that
prides itself on the strong foundation of our marriages, come hell or high
water, rain or sunshine. Life is made up of good times and bad, and the bad
times can bring with it terrible illnesses and extreme hardships. The
partners in a marriage must weather these storms and embrace the sunshine
with equanimity. Any person may have bad health, this is not their fault
and most times, it is not within their control, as in the present case,
the respondent was unwell and was taking treatment for the same. The
illness had its fair share of problems. Can this be a reason for the
appellant to abandon her and seek dissolution of marriage after the child
is born out of their union? Since the child is now a grown up girl, her
welfare must be the prime consideration for both the parties. In view of
the foregoing reasons, we are of the opinion that the two parties in this
case must reconcile and if the appellant so feels that the respondent is
still suffering, then she must be given the right treatment. The respondent
must stick to her treatment plan and make the best attempts to get better.
It is not in the best interest of either the respondent or her daughter who
is said to be of adolescent age for grant of a decree of dissolution of
marriage as prayed for by the appellant. Hence, the appeal is liable to be
dismissed. 24. Accordingly, we dismiss the appeal and uphold the judgment of the High
Court in not granting a decree of divorce and allowing the petition for
restitution of conjugal rights. Therefore, we grant a decree for
restitution of conjugal rights under Section 9 of the Act in favour of the
respondent. Mayne’s Treatise on Hindu Law and Usage, Fifteenth Edition, 2003, Bharat
Law House at p.97

[8] Fifteenth Edition, 2003, Bharat Law House at p.97 -----------------------