1. This petition seeks quashing of order dated February 28, 2005 (annexure P 6), passed by respondent No. 2, Excise and Taxation Officer, Information Collection Centre, Balongi District, Ropar. 2. By the said order, penalty has been imposed on the petitioner by recording a finding that the petitioner attempted to evade tax, by declaring in the invoice, accompanying the goods under transport, that the goods were liable to tax at the last stage while as per provisions of the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948 (for short, "the Act"), the goods were liable to tax at first stage. 3. Case of the petitioner is that it is a dealer registered under the provisions of the Act at Mohali. It deals in goods manufactured from cast iron and is also a consignment agent of Electro-steel Castings Limited, Kolkata (West Bengal) for cast iron items. 4. On February 24, 2005, the petitioner sent one consignment of goods to a Pathankot dealer through Shiv Shakti Transport Company from its place of business, i.e., Mohali, to the place of the consignee at Pathankot. 5. At the check-post, set up under the provisions of the Act, the driver of the vehicle duly reported the transaction, but the concerned officer detained the goods on the ground that the goods were liable to be taxed at the first stage, while as per the bill accompanying the goods, tax had not been charged. After preliminary inquiry, notice was issued to the petitioner and the designated officer heard petitioner. The goods and the vehicle were released against bank guarantee on March 1, 2005, pending consideration of the matter. 6. According to the petitioner, the goods were general goods, liable to tax at last stage and though Schedule "D" read with Section 5(3) of the Act, dealing with the declared goods mentioned one of the items as pipes, the goods in question being pipes manufactured from cast-iron, were not declared goods, as per judgment of the honourable Supreme Court in Vasantham Foundry v. Union of India [1995] 99 STC 87. 7. The petitioner later on learnt that an order purporting to have been passed on February 28, 2005, imposed penalty by recording a finding that the designated officer was satisfied that the petitioner had attempted to evade tax. The petitioner obtained a copy of the said order which is annexed as annexure P 6. 8. It has been submitted that the order declaring that the petitioner had attempted to evade tax was patently erroneous and uncalled for. It is pointed out that if the goods were claimed as "declared goods", the petitioner is benefited as the rate of tax on the "declared goods" is four per cent as against the tax on general goods being 8.8 per cent attracted as per petitioner's declaration. It is further pointed out that the power to detain goods under the scheme of the statute cannot be exercised as a substitute for assessment, being summary power and also the provision being stringent inasmuch as 30 per cent of the value of the goods is provided as penalty as against two times of the tax, as penalty in the course of regular assessment. It is pointed out that in jurisdiction for imposing penalty at the check-post, the assessee is required to bring evidence at the check-post as against leading evidence before the Assessing Authority at the place of business of the assessee itself in case of regular assessment proceedings. It is further pointed out that the jurisdiction at the check-post should be exercised only in case of clear violation, where there is patent mis-declaration showing attempt of evasion and disputed questions of interpretation cannot be sorted out there merely on the ground that according to a Check-post Officer, different interpretation should be placed as the proceedings before the authorities at the check-post are summary in nature. It is further stated that the order has been purportedly passed on February 28, 2005 while the goods were released, pending decision of the matter, on March 1, 2005, the factum of goods having been released on March 1, 2005, finds mention in the order, thus, the order is clearly ante-dated and was mala fide. 9. In the reply filed, apart from objection of alternative remedy, the stand taken is that the tax was leviable at the first stage under item No. 3(d)(vi) of the Schedule "D" of the Act and therefore, the impugned order was justified. Further stand is that the goods were released after passing of the order on February 28, 2005 and the order passed on February 28, 2005 was only a zimni order and subsequently, a detailed order was passed, wherein the date of March 1, 2005 was also incorporated. It is stated that the order was passed after March 1, 2005 but bears the date of February 28, 2005, by which, no prejudice was caused. 10. From the pleadings of the parties, following questions arise for consideration: Re : Question No. (i) 11. Learned Counsel for the State, while substantiating his plea of alternative remedy being available to the petitioner, relied upon judgments in Transport Corporation of India Ltd. v. State of Andhra Pradesh [1985] 60 STC 14 (AP), State of Goa v. Leukoplast (India) Ltd. [1997] 105 STC 318 (SC) and Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Orissa . 12. In Transport Corporation of India Ltd. [1985] 60 STC 14 (AP), the Andhra Pradesh High Court was dealing with a number of writ petitions filed to challenge show cause notice as to why penal action should not be taken for violation of the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957 on the allegation that intra-State sales taking place in the State were being shown as inter-State sale and on enquiry, a scam came to the notice of the department. The High Court upheld the validity of the statutory provisions following judgment of the honourable Supreme Court in Bishamber Dayal Chandra Mohan v. State of U. P. AIR 1982 SC 33 and other judgments and on facts, did not find any ground to quash the show cause notice. 13. In Leukoplast (India) Ltd. [1997] 105 STC 318 (SC), the assessee filed a writ petition challenging the decision of the Assessing Authority holding that products of the assessee like zinc oxide, adhesive plaster, etc., were not "drugs and medicines" which were exempted from tax. Writ petition was allowed. The honourable Supreme Court held that the question whether products of the assessee were drugs and medicines could not be straightaway answered and required determination of several facts and in such a situation, the writ petition could not have been entertained. 14. In Titaghur Paper Mills [1983] 53 STC 315 (SC) : AIR 1983 SC 603, the assessee filed a writ petition against the order of assessment treating the transaction of intra-State sales claimed by the assessee to be inter-State sales as taxable and disallowing deduction claimed by the assessee. The writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on the ground of availability of alternative remedy and the decision was upheld by the honourable Supreme Court. Noticing its earlier judgment in State of U. P. v. Mohammad Nooh AIR 1958 SC 86, at page 94 that if an order was without jurisdiction or patently in excess of jurisdiction or in violation of rules of natural justice, writ petition could be entertained even if an appeal was provided, it was observed that the said principle was not applicable as the order could not be held to be without jurisdiction. 15. Though the general rule is that this Court does not entertain a writ petition when an alternative remedy is available, but such a rule is not an absolute bar and in an appropriate case, inspite of availability of alternative remedy, this Court is not debarred from entertaining writ petition where on undisputed facts, an authority is shown to have assumed jurisdiction which it does not possess. Article 226 of the Constitution of India, as such, does not debar entertainment of writ petitions but it is a self-imposed limitation put by the courts. 16. Reference may be made to the judgment of the honourable Supreme Court in Whirlpool Corporation v. Registrar of Trade Marks, Mumbai , where a writ petition was filed against cancellation of trade mark registration, which was dismissed. On appeal, the honourable Supreme Court observed: 17. For the reasons given in the later part of this judgment holding that the jurisdiction assumed by respondent No. 2 in passing the impugned order, annexure P 6 was without any legal basis and in the facts and circumstances of the case, we are of he view that writ petition is not liable to be dismissed on account of availability of alternative remedy. Therefore, we overrule preliminary objection raised on behalf of the State. 18. Admitted facts, as noticed in the impugned order, annexure P 6, are that the driver of the vehicle reported at the check-post with documents, namely, bill dated February 24, 2005 in respect of the goods carried in the vehicle, GR dated February 24, 2005 of the transport company and ST-XXIV A dated February 24, 2005. Notice was given to the driver to prove how the goods, which were liable to be taxed at first stage, were being sold as sales to registered dealers against declaration form which was permissible only in respect of goods liable to tax at last stage. The advocate for the petitioner appeared and thereafter, Manager of the petitioner-firm appeared and filed a reply submitting that goods were cast iron spun pipes which did not figure in Schedule "D", the list of declared goods in respect of which sales tax was attracted at the first stage. Judgment of the honourable Supreme Court in Vasantham Foundry [1995] 99 STC 87, was cited, holding that cast iron was different from iron. Respondent No. 2 held that casting to produce things like pipes, etc., could not be treated as cast iron. On these facts, it was held that "cast iron pipes" were "iron" liable to tax at the first stage and tax having not been charged at the first stage, there was attempt to evade tax calling for penalty equal to 30 per cent of the value of the goods. 19. On March 22, 2005, this Court passed the following order: 20. On August 3, 2005, following order was passed: 21. In Vasantham Foundry [1995] 99 STC 87 (SC), the question before the honourable Supreme Court was whether "cast iron" in the list of "declared goods" included "cast iron castings". The assessee claimed that "cast iron castings" were being treated as "declared goods" prior to the judgment of the honourable Supreme Court in Bengal Iron Corporation v. Commercial Tax Officer [1993] 90 STC 47 , but after the said judgment , a circular was issued that "cast iron castings" were not to be treated as "declared goods". 22. In Bengal Iron Corporation 's case [1993] 90 STC 47 (SC), it was observed as under: 23. The assessee submitted that if the cast iron pipes or other items were being produced in a foundry, the same could not be treated as cast iron but cast iron casting at its primary stage must be declared as cast iron. 24. The honourable Supreme Court observed as under: 25. Learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted that if the goods are declared goods, the rate of tax would be four per cent and the petitioner could have no intention to evade tax by declaring the goods as general goods, where the rate of tax applicable would be eight per cent. Scope of powers to be exercised at check-posts: 26. Before deciding the question whether impugned order is ultra vires the provisions of Section 14B of the Act, it is necessary to examine the scope of exercise of power at the check-post, relevant provisions whereof are extracted below: 6(i) If the officer-in-charge of the check-post or information collection centre or any other officer as mentioned in Sub-section (2), has reasons to suspect that the goods under transport are meant for trade and are not covered by proper and genuine documents as mentioned in Sub-section (2) or Sub-section (4), or the driver has not stopped the vehicle as required under Sub-section (3) or that the person transporting the goods is attempting to evade payment of tax, he may, for reasons to be recorded in writing and after hearing the person concerned, order the detention of the goods along with the vehicle for such period, as may reasonably be necessary. Such goods shall be released on furnishing a security or executing a bond with sureties in the pre-scribed form and manner by the consignor or consignee, if registered under the Act, to the satisfaction of the officer detaining the goods and in case the consignor or the consignee is not registered under the Act, then on furnishing a security in the form of cash or bank guarantee or crossed bank draft, which shall be thirty per cent of the value of the goods, rounded up to the nearest hundred. (ii) If the owner or the person-in-charge of the goods has not submitted the documents as mentioned in Sub-section (2) and Sub-section (4) at the nearest check-post or information collection centre, in the State of Punjab, as the case may be, on his entry into or exit from the State, such goods shall be detained and shall be released only after the matter is finally decided under Clause (iii) of Sub-section (7). (7)(i) The officer detaining the goods shall record the statement, if any, given by the consignor or consignee of the goods or his representative or the driver or other person in-charge of the goods vehicles and shall require him to prove the genuineness of the transaction before him in his office on a specified date on which date, the officer shall submit the proceedings along with the concerned records to such officer, as may be authorised in that behalf by the State Government for conducting necessary enquiry in the matter. (ii) The officer authorised by the State Government shall, before the conducting enquiry, serve a notice on the consignor or the consignee of the goods detained under Clause (i) of Sub-section (6), and give him an opportunity of being heard and if, after the enquiry, such officer finds that there has been an attempt to avoid or evade the tax due or likely to be due under this Act, he shall, by order, impose on the consignor or consignee of the goods, a penalty, which shall not be less than twenty per cent and not more than thirty per cent of the value of the goods and in case he finds otherwise, he shall order the release of the goods and the vehicle, if not already released, after recording reasons in writing and shall decide the matter finally within a period of fourteen days from the commencement of the enquiry proceedings. (iii) The officer referred to in Clause (ii), before conducting the enquiry, shall serve a notice on the consignor or the consignee of the goods, detained under Clause (ii) of Sub-section (6) and give him an opportunity of being heard and if, after the enquiry, such officer is satisfied that the documents as required under Sub-section (2) and Sub-section (4), were not furnished at the information collection centre or the check post, as the case may be, with a view to attempt to avoid or evade the tax due or likely to be due under the Act, he shall by order for reasons to be recorded in writing, impose on the consignor or to the consignee of the goods, penalty equal to fifty per cent of the value of the goods involved. In case, he finds otherwise, he shall order release of the goods for sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing. He may, however, notwithstanding anything contained in Clause (ii) of Sub-section (6), order release of the goods and the vehicle on furnishing a security by the consignor or the consignee in the form of cash or bank guarantee or crossed bank draft for an amount equal to the amount of penalty imposable and shall decide the matter finally within a period of fourteen days from the commencement of the enquiry proceedings; and (iv) The officer-in-charge of a check-post or information collection centre or any other officer referred to in Sub-section (2), may receive the amount of cash security as referred to in Clause (i) of Sub-section (6) and the amount of penalty imposed under Sub-section (4) and clauses (ii) and (iii) of Sub-section (7) against a proper receipt in the prescribed manner. (8) In the event of the consignor or consignee of the goods not paying the penalty imposed under Sub-section (7) within twenty days from the date of the order imposing the penalty, the goods detained shall be made liable to be sold by the officer, who imposed the penalty, for the realisation of the penalty by public auction in the manner prescribed. If the goods detained are of a perishable nature or subject to speedy or natural decay or when the expenses of keeping them in custody are likely to exceed their value, the officer-in-charge of the check-post or information collection centre or any other officer referred to in Sub-section (2), as the case may be, shall immediately sell such goods or otherwise dispose them of. The sale proceeds shall be deposited in the Government Treasury and the consignor or consignee of the goods shall be entitled to only the balance amount of sale proceeds after deducting the amount of penalty, the expenses and other incidental charges, incurred in detaining and disposing of the goods: 27. Learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted that object of conferring power on the officer at the check-post was not to settle highly debatable issues as attempt at evasion could not be alleged merely on the ground that the assessee was raising a bona fide legal dispute, which required adjudiction. Attempt at evasion, which was the essence of the jurisdiction conferred on the Check-post Officer could not be inferred when adjudication of legal dispute was involved. Raising of a bona fide legal argument could not be equate to the mens rea for evasion of tax. 28. On the other hand, learned Counsel for the State submitted that power conferred on Check-post Officer could be exercised if the said officer was of the opinion that the assessee had given a declaration without any basis and such declaration had possibility of tax evasion. 29. In this connection, reference may be made to observations of the honourable Supreme Court in Cement Marketing Co. of India Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax, Indore , in the context of imposition of penalty when there was a bona fide legal dispute about exigibility of tax: 30. In Automobile Products of India Limited v. State of Karnataka [1991] 81 STC 414 (Karn), dealing with the jurisdiction of the Check-post Officer, it was observed as under: 31. In Orient Paper & Industries Ltd. v. State of Orissa [1995] 97 STC 490 (Orissa), it was observed: 32. In Utkal Galvanisers Limited v. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Orissa [1997] 104 STC 222 (Orissa), the assessee was transporting "excavator" by treating the same as "machinery". Check-post Officer held that "excavator" was a separate item attracting higher rate of tax and the assessee was making an effort to hoodwink the department and attempted to evade tax. Writ petition was filed challenging the said order. A division Bench of the Orissa High Court allowed the writ petition. Pasayat, J. (as his Lordship then was, now honourable Supreme Court Judge), observed: 33. Learned Counsel for the State relied upon judgment of the honourable Supreme Court in Shahnas Trading Co. v. State of Kerala [2002] 127 STC 1, which is a short order, relevant part of which is as under: 34. The judgment of the High Court which is also reproduced therein shows the relevant facts which are that the assessee challenged jurisdiction of the Check-post Officer to determine valuation of goods in transit. It was observed as under: 35. In Parry and Company Ltd. v. Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P., Lucknow [2004] 138 STC 437 (All), the Allahabad High Court dealing with the question observed as under: 36. In United Polymer Industries v. State of Punjab [2006] 146 STC 571, a division bench of this Court observed as under: 37. In Commissioner of Sales Tax v. P.T. Enterprises [2000] 117 STC 315 (SC), it was held that a transporter could be required to carry documents in respect of specified goods liable to tax. 38. Vires of provision relating to checking of goods in transit: In The Check-Post Officer, Coimbatore v. K. P. Abdulla and Bros . , the question before the honourable Supreme Court was whether power to seize and confiscate and levy penalty in respect of goods carried in a vehicle was ancillary to power to levy tax. ft was held that power conferred under Section 42 of the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959 to seize and confiscate goods not covered by a bill, goods vehicle record or other documents was not incidental to power to legislate in respect of taxes on sale or purchase of goods as no conclusive presumption could be drawn merely from absence of specified documents particularly when the goods may be carried as personal luggage and when no tax will be attracted. It was observed in para 4: 39. In Sodhi Transport Co. v. State of U. P. , question was considered with reference to Section 28B of the U. P. Sales Tax Act, 1948. It was held that the provisions being machinery provisions enacted to ensure that there was no evasion of tax, were incidental to entry 54, List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and presumption contained in Section 28B of the Act not being conclusive, merely laid down a rule of evidence, shifting burden of proof on the persons not carrying the documents to show that goods were not sold inside the State. In para 19 (STC page 392), it was observed as under: 40. Following judgments in Sodhi Transport 's case , the honourable Supreme Court upheld the provisions of Section 37 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act in Delite Carriers (Regd.) v. State of Haryana [1990] 77 STC 170 (SC). 41. Learned Counsel for the State relied upon judgments of this Court in Moot Chand Chuni Lal v. Shri Manmohan Singh, Assistant Excise and Taxation Officer, Octroi In-Charge, Shambhu Barrier, District Patiala [1977] 40 STC 238 (P&H) and Amrit Banaspati Company Ltd. v. State of Punjab [2001] 122 STC 323 (P&H). The said judgment also primarily deal with the validity of the provision, which is not the issue raised, however the same is concluded by the judgements of the honourable Supreme Court referred to above. 42. In State of Haryana v. Sant Lal , provisions of Section 38 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973 were held to be unconstitutional as therein, every clearing and forwarding agent or person transporting goods was required to furnish information in respect of consignments to the assessing authority. It was held that presumption of evasion of tax could not be raised against such an agent. 43. In Tripura Goods Transport Association v. Commissioner of Taxes , provisions of Tripura Sales Tax-Act, 1976 and Rules framed thereunder requiring transporters to obtain certificate of registration and to maintain accounts and also making a declaration in prescribed form, were upheld on the ground that the said provisions were incidental to evasion of tax. 44. In Saral Kumar v. State of Haryana [2000] 118 STC 17 (SC), it was observed that while goods carrier record was obligatory, person-in-charge of goods was at liberty to show that he was not in a position to produce any of the three documents, i.e., challan, cash memo or bill as the said documents were in the alternative and any one of the said documents could be produced. 45. In State of Rajasthan v. D.P. Metals , following judgment in Sodhi Transport 's case , provisions of Section 78 of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1994 were upheld. 46. In Commercial Tax Officer v. Swastik Roadways , provisions of sections 57 and 58 of the Madhya Pradesh Commercial Tax Act, 1994 requiring furnishing of information by clearing and forwarding agents regarding details of consignors, consignees, quantity of goods carried and value thereof were upheld on the ground that the same were intended to prevent/check evasion. 47. In A.B.C. (India) Ltd. v. State of Assam , provisions of sections 42 and 44 of the Assam General Sales Tax Act, 1993 were upheld following judgment in Tripura Goods Transport Association 's case and distinguishing judgment in Sant Lal 's case . 48. The above judgments relate to validity of statutory provisions requiring a transporter or owner to carry relevant documents and to give information at the check-post and in absence thereof, inference of evasion could be raised in which case, the transporter or owner of the goods was required to show that there was no attempt at evasion. 49. Reference may also be made to the judgement of the honourable Supreme Court in Krishna Bus Service Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Haryana . Dealing with power of detention of a vehicle under the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 , it was observed as under: 50. Dealing with the exercise of power of search and seizure under the Customs Act, 1962 , this Court observed in C. W. P. No. 6022 of 2005, Mapsa Tapes Private Limited v. Union of India-decided on April 28, 2006, Reported in : In the same decision, issue of right of privacy, has also been dealt with in paras 17 to 39. In the said decision , development in law after judgment of honourable the Supreme Court in M. P. Sharma AIR 1954 SC 300 has also been discussed, particularly in the light of subsequent judgments in Kharak Singh v. State of U. P. and Govind v. State of M. P. and it was concluded that right of the State has to be exercised on reasonable basis or on reasonable material. It was further observed in para 33 of judgment in Canara Bank: (underlining supplied). Judicial review: 51. It is well-settled that wherever exercise of power by any public authority is arbitrary, the same will be open to judicial review and will be liable to be quashed. Reference may be made to judgment of the honourable Supreme Court in Comptroller and Auditor General of India, Gian Prakash, New Delhi v. K.S. jngannathan , wherein it was observed: 52. In Lucknow Development Authority v. M. K. Gupta , dealing with the question of accountability of a public authority while exercising its power, it was observed as under: 53. The above observations were also relied upon by the honourable Supreme Court in its judgment in Union of India v. S. B. Vohra , para 25 and after discussing the case law on the point, it was observed: 54. In Tata Cellular v. Union of India , dealing with the question of judicial review, the honourable Supreme Court observed: (1) it is open to the court to review the decision-makers evaluation of the facts. The court will intervene where the facts taken as a whole could not logically warrant the conclusion of the decision-maker. If the weight of facts pointing to one course of action is overwhelming, then a decision the other way, cannot be upheld. Thus, in Emma Hotels Ltd. v. Secretary of the State of Environment [1980] 41 P & CVR 255, the Secretary of State referred to a number of factors which led him to the conclusion that a non-resident bar in a hotel was operated in such a way that the bar was not an incident of the hotel use for planning purposes, but constituted a separate use. The Divisional Court analysed the factors which led the Secretary of State to that conclusion and, having done so, set it aside. Donaldson, L.J. said that he could not see on what basis the Secretary of State had reached his conclusion. (2) A decision would be regarded as unreasonable if it is impartial and unequal in its operation as between different classes. On this basis in R v. Barnet London Borough Council, ex p Johnson [1989] 88 LGR 73, the condition imposed by a local authority prohibiting participation by those affiliated with political parties at events to be held in the authority's parks was struck down. 101. A modern comprehensive statement about judicial review by Lord Denning is very apposite; it is perhaps worthwhile noting that stresses the supervisory nature of the jurisdiction: 61. In the present case, contention raised by the assessee that the "cast iron castings" carried by it were not "cast iron" liable to tax at the first stage, could not be held to be requiring no adjudication or frivolous or mala fide. It is not relevant as to what is the interpretation finally taken on this subject and we do not express any conclusive opinion at this stage but having not concealed any information, having furnished all the information, having placed reliance on the judgments of the honourable Supreme Court and since the matter did require serious consideration, adjudication by the check-post officer was not called for. Invocation of jurisdiction for imposing penalty on the allegation of attempt at tax evasion in such a situation was not permissible. 62. Question No. (ii) is, thus, answered in favour of the petitioner and assumption of jurisdiction by the check-post officer is held to be without jurisdiction. Re : Q. No. (Hi) 63. We find that order annexure P 6 and order annexure R 1 are different orders and order annexure P 6 carries a reference to release of goods on March 1, 2005, though purported to have been passed on February 28, 2005. The same is obviously ante-dated. Explanation for the discrepancy does not appeal to us. We, however, do not express any final view in the matter and direct that matter be looked into by the Financial Commissioner-cum-Secretary, Government of Punjab, Department of Excise and Taxation, respondent No. 1 and such decision may be taken as may be considered appropriate. 64. Question No. (iii) is answered accordingly. 65. In view of the above, the writ petition is allowed and impugned order, annexure P 6 dated February 28, 2005 is set aside with no order as to costs.