R.F. NARIMAN, J. 1. Two important questions arise in these appeals – first, as to whether

 an “award” delivered by an Emergency Arbitrator under the Arbitration

 Rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre [“SIAC Rules”] can

 be said to be an order under Section 17(1) of the Arbitration and

 Conciliation Act, 1996 [“ Arbitration Act ”]; and second, as to whether an Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by Jayant Kumar Arora Date: 2021.08.06 13:56:05 IST Reason: order passed under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration Act in enforcement of 1 the award of an Emergency Arbitrator by a learned Single Judge of the

High Court is appealable. 2. The brief facts necessary to appreciate the context in which these two

questions arise are as follows: and Akar Estate and Finance Pvt. Ltd., group companies of FRL 2 Respondents No. 1 to 13 are hereinafter collectively referred to as the

“Biyani Group”. 2.2. The seat of the arbitral proceedings is New Delhi, and as per the

arbitration clause agreed upon by the parties, SIAC Rules apply.

2.3. Three agreements were entered into between the parties. A

Shareholders’ Agreement dated 12th August, 2019, was entered into

amongst the Biyani Group, i.e., Respondents No. 1 to 13 [“FRL

Shareholders’ Agreement”]. Under this Shareholders’ Agreement, FCPL

was accorded negative, protective, special, and material rights with regard

to FRL including, in particular, FRL’s retail stores [“retail assets”]. The

rights granted to FCPL under this Shareholders’ Agreement were to be

exercised for Amazon’s benefit and thus were mirrored in a Shareholders’

Agreement dated 22nd August, 2019 entered into between Amazon, FCPL,

and Respondents No. 3 to 13 [“FCPL Shareholders’ Agreement”].

Amazon agreed to invest a sum of Rs.1431 crore in FCPL based on the

rights granted to FCPL under the FRL Shareholders’ Agreement and the

FCPL Shareholders’ Agreement. This investment was recorded in the

Share Subscription Agreement dated 22nd August, 2019 entered into

between Amazon, FCPL, and Respondents No. 3 to 13 [“Share 3 Subscription Agreement”]. It was expressly stipulated that this investment

in FCPL would “flow down” to FRL. It appears that the basic understanding

between the parties was that Amazon’s investment in the retail assets of

FRL would continue to vest in FRL, as a result of which FRL could not

transfer its retail assets without FCPL’s consent which, in turn, could not be

granted unless Amazon had provided its consent. Also, FRL was prohibited

from encumbering/transferring/selling/divesting/disposing of its retail assets

to “restricted persons”, being prohibited entities, with whom FRL, FCPL,

and the Biyanis could not deal. A list of such restricted persons was then

set out in Schedule III of the FCPL Shareholders’ Agreement and also

under the FRL Shareholders’ Agreement vide letter dated 19th December,

2019. There is no doubt that the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani group

(Reliance Industries group) is a “restricted person” under both these

Shareholders’ Agreements. 2.4. On 26th December, 2019, Amazon invested the aforesaid sum of

Rs.1431 crore in FCPL which “flowed down” to FRL on the very same day.

The bone of contention between the parties is that within a few months

from the date of this investment, i.e., on 29 th August, 2020, Respondents

No. 1 to 13 entered into a transaction with the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani

group which envisages the amalgamation of FRL with the Mukesh 4 Dhirubhai Ambani group, the consequential cessation of FRL as an entity,

and the complete disposal of its retail assets in favour of the said group.

2.5. Amazon initiated arbitration proceedings and filed an application on

5th October, 2020 seeking emergency interim relief under the SIAC Rules,

asking for injunctions against the aforesaid transaction. Mr. V.K. Rajah, SC

was appointed as the Emergency Arbitrator and heard detailed oral

submissions from all parties and then passed an “interim award” dated 25 th

October, 2020, in which the learned Arbitrator issued the following

injunctions/directions: He also found that any so-called violations of Foreign Exchange

Management Act, 1999 [“FEMA”] did not render the Emergency Arbitrator’s

award a nullity, and therefore, issued a show-cause notice under Order

XXXIX, Rule 2-A of the Code of Civil Procedure , after imposing Rs.20 lakh

as costs to be deposited with the Prime Minister Relief Fund for being used

for providing COVID vaccinations to the Below Poverty Line category of

senior citizens of Delhi. The learned Single Judge then directed as follows: 9 A(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure for violation of the order
 dated 25th October, 2020. Reply to the show cause notice be
 filed within two weeks. Rejoinder within two weeks thereafter. 196. The respondents are directed not to take any further action
 in violation of the interim order dated 25th October, 2020. The
 respondents are further directed to approach all the competent
 authorities for recall of the orders passed on their applications
 in violation of the interim order dated 25th October, 2020 within
 two weeks. The respondents are directed to file an affidavit to
 place on record the actions taken by them after 25 th October,
 2020 and the present status of all those actions at least three
 days before the next date of hearing. 197. Respondents No.3 to 11 shall remain present before this
 Court on the next date of hearing.”

He listed the matter for further directions on 28 th April, 2021.

2.9. Against this detailed judgment, FAO No. 51 of 2021 was filed by FRL.

By the second impugned judgment in this case dated 22 nd March, 2021, a

Division Bench of the Delhi High Court referred to its earlier order dated 8 th

February, 2021 and stayed the learned Single Judge’s detailed judgment

and order for the same reasons given by the earlier order till the next date

of hearing, which was 30th April, 2021. Against the said order, Special 11 Leave Petitions were filed before this Court, and this Court by its order

dated 19th April, 2021 stayed further proceedings before the learned Single

Judge as well as the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court, and set the

matter down for final disposal before this Court. 3. Mr. Gopal Subramanium, learned Senior Advocate appearing on

behalf of Amazon, took us through the record with painstaking detail. He

castigated the impugned orders of the Division Bench as suffering from a

complete non-application of mind in that the order dated 8 th February, 2021

referred to three agreements, the third being between FRL and Reliance

Retail Ltd., which is an error apparent on the face of the record. Secondly, it

went on to observe that in the aforesaid agreement, Amazon is not a party.

It then went on to hold that an appeal against an order under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration Act would be maintainable under the provisions of the

Code of Civil Procedure on the basis of the reasoning contained in a Delhi

High Court judgment in South Delhi Municipal Corporation v. Tech

Mahindra , (2019) SCC Online Delhi 11863, relying upon paragraphs 8 to

11 thereof. Mr. Subramanium argued that had the learned Division Bench

bothered to refer to paragraphs 12 and 13 of the aforesaid judgment, it

would be clear that this authority would be an authority for exactly the

opposite proposition, thereby rendering an appeal under Order XLIII, Rule 12 1(r) of the Code of Civil Procedure non-maintainable when it is read with Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. Further observations that prima facie, the

agreements are between different parties, and therefore, the group-of-

companies doctrine cannot be invoked, without any reasoning, again

betrays a complete non-application of mind. Since the second impugned

order of the Division Bench relies upon this very order to stay even the

detailed judgment of the Single Judge, the learned senior counsel argued

that the second order, being a reiteration of the first, suffers from the same

malady. 3.1. Mr. Subramanium then referred us to Sections 2(1)(a) , 2(1)(c) , 2(1) (d), 2(6), 2(8) and 19(2) to argue that the Arbitration Act reflects the

grundnorm of arbitration as being party autonomy, which is respected by

these provisions and delineated in several judgments of this Court. He then

referred to Section 37 , pointing out that an appeal under Section 37(2)(b) is

restricted to granting or refusing to grant an interim measure under Section

17 , which would refer to Section 17(1) and not Section 17(2) . He went on to

argue that the Arbitration Act is a complete code in itself and if an appeal

does not fall within the four corners of Section 37 , then it is incompetent, as

has been held by several judgments of this Court. 13 3.2. He also referred to various judgments of this Court, arguing that an

Emergency Arbitrator’s award can never be characterised as a nullity and

ignored, and cited a number of judgments to show that until the said award

is set aside, it must be obeyed. He also referred to the important fact that

the award must be taken as it stands as no appeal was made therefrom by

the Biyani Group and that, therefore, it was not permissible to go behind

the award. 3.3. He also cited judgments to show that non-signatories to arbitration

agreements would nevertheless be bound thereby and on facts, it was

admitted that the “Ultimate Controlling Person” behind the entire

transaction was Mr. Kishore Biyani, who was defined as such under the

three Agreements. 3.4. He also argued that, as has been held in the judgments of this Court,

the FEMA is wholly unlike the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 [“FERA”] and does not contain any provision nullifying an agreement, even

assuming that there was a breach thereof. 4. Mr. Aspi Chinoy, learned Senior Advocate also appearing on behalf of

Amazon, took us through various parts of the Emergency Arbitrator’s award

and argued that no equity can possibly be found in favour of the Biyani 14 Group as the breach of the Emergency Arbitrator’s award had been

admitted by them. Thus, they have come to the Court with a dishonest and

immoral case and if this is appreciated, it will be clear that on facts, after

openly flouting the Emergency Arbitrator’s award, they would have no case

on merits to resist the directions issued by the learned Single Judge under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration Act. Even otherwise, he referred to Section

17(2) and argued that enforcement orders were made under the Arbitration

Act and not under the Code of Civil Procedure , as a result of which the

appeal filed under Order XLIII, Rule 1(r) would not be maintainable. Mr.

Chinoy also referred to a Division Bench judgment of the Bombay High

Court in Kakade Construction Co. Ltd. v. Vistra ITCL , 2019 SCC OnLine

Bom 1521 : (2019) 6 Bom CR 805 [“Kakade Construction”] to buttress his

submission. 5. Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of

Amazon, referred to Sections 9 and 17 of the Arbitration Act and the

Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 [“2015 Amendment

Act”] which brought Section 17 into line with Section 9 . He then referred to Section 9(3) to argue that the legislative intent is to obtain interim orders

from an arbitral tribunal then constituted so as to decongest courts and free

them from the burdens of Section 9 petitions being filed before them. If this 15 is appreciated, then it would be clear that an Emergency Arbitrator’s award

would be a step in the right direction under institutional rules, furthering this

very objective. He also pointed out that by the very same amendment, a

non-obstante clause was added to Section 37(1) , thereby making it

abundantly clear that unless an appeal falls within the four corners of Section 37 , the moment an order is passed under the Arbitration Act , no

other appeal could possibly be filed if it was outside the four corners of Section 37 . 6. Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of

FRL, stated that he would not go to the extent of arguing that an

Emergency Arbitrator’s award would be outside the ken of the Arbitration

Act , but that it was sufficient for his purpose to argue that an Emergency

Arbitrator’s award cannot be said to fall under Section 17(1) of the Act. He

placed before us an extract of the 246 th Law Commission Report, in which

the Law Commission advocated the amendment of Section 2 of the

Arbitration Act, to include within sub-section (1)(d) a provision for the

appointment of an Emergency Arbitrator. He said that despite this

suggestion being made, Parliament did not adopt the same when it

amended the Arbitration Act by the 2015 Amendment Act, thereby

indicating that such orders would not fall within Section 17(1) of the 16 Arbitration Act . He then took us through the definition sections in the Arbitration Act and read out Sections 10 to 13 , 16 , 17 , 21 , 23 , 27 , 29A, and 30 , in particular, to argue that an arbitral tribunal as defined by Section 2(1) (d) of the Act can only mean a tribunal that is constituted between the

parties, which then decides the disputes between the parties finally and

cannot, given the scheme of the Act, include an Emergency Arbitrator who

is not an “arbitral tribunal” but a person who only decides, at best, an

interim dispute between the parties which never culminates in a final

award. He argued that Mr. Subramanium was trying to fit a square peg in a

round hole as the Arbitration Act only speaks of arbitral tribunals that are

constituted between the parties and that can finally decide the disputes

between the parties. As an example, if the tribunal rules on its own

jurisdiction and rejects a plea stating it has no jurisdiction, it must only

continue with the arbitral proceedings and make a final arbitral award,

which can never be done by an Emergency Arbitrator. The scheme,

therefore, of the entirety of Part I of the Act , would show that an Emergency

Arbitrator is a foreigner to the Indian Arbitration Act and cannot fit within its

scheme unless an amendment is made by Parliament. 6.1. He further argued, pointing to section 25 .2 of the arbitral agreement

contained in the FCPL Shareholders’ Agreement (which is mirrored in the 17 FRL Shareholders’ Agreement as section 15 .2), that in any case, the

provisions of the SIAC Rules relating to an Emergency Arbitrator’s award,

which were agreed to between the parties, were subject to the provisions of

the Arbitration Act ; and since the Arbitration Act did not provide for

Emergency Arbitrators, this part of the SIAC Rules would not apply, making

it clear that an Emergency Arbitrator’s award cannot fall within Section

17(1) of the Act. He also argued that the scheme of Section 17(1) made it

clear that a party may, during arbitral proceedings, apply to the arbitral

tribunal. Even under the SIAC Rules, an Emergency Arbitrator is appointed

before the arbitral tribunal is constituted, as is clear from Rule 30 read with

Schedule 1. This being the case, an Emergency Arbitrator, not being

appointed during arbitral proceedings, falls outside Section 17(1) .

6.2. He also contrasted the Arbitration Act with provisions contained in the

Singapore, New Zealand, Hong Kong, and English statutes which made it

clear that under those statutes, an Emergency Arbitrator’s awards were

expressly included and could thus be enforced under their provisions.

6.3. Mr. Salve made it clear that the appeal that was filed in the present

case was not under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act but was under Order

XLIII, Rule 1(r) of the Code of Civil Procedure . He then read Section 9 18 together with Section 37 of the Arbitration Act to stress that orders may be

made under Section 9 until enforcement of an award in accordance with Section 36 , and then read Section 36 to make it clear that the contours of Section 37 did not go beyond orders and awards made under the Arbitration Act . Since orders made in enforcement proceedings are not

under the Arbitration Act but only under the Code of Civil Procedure ,

therefore, in enforcement proceedings – both under Section 17(2) and

under Section 36(1) – appeals can be filed from such orders under the

Code of Civil Procedure . He stressed upon the language of Section 36(1) ,

which made it clear that when a final award is made, it shall be enforced in

accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure in the same

manner as if it were a decree of the court, thereby arguing that by a legal

fiction, an award is deemed to be a decree for the purposes of

enforcement, which would include all purposes, including appeals from

orders passed in enforcement proceedings. He also stressed upon the

language of Section 17(2) to indicate that an order passed under Section

17(1) is deemed to be an order of the court for all purposes and shall be

enforceable under the Code of Civil Procedure in the same manner as if it

were an order of the court, making it clear that enforcement is not under the Arbitration Act but only under the Code of Civil Procedure . He stressed the 19 fact that the order of the learned Single Judge also made it abundantly

clear that he was exercising powers only under Order XXXIX, Rule 2-A of

the Code of Civil Procedure and not under the Arbitration Act . He then

pointed out that there would be various anomalies which cannot be

addressed if we were to accept the construction suggested by Mr.

Subramanium. As is well known, third-party objectors may object to an

order under Section 17(2) or an award. If their rights are affected, it cannot

be that they would have no right of appeal, as a perverse order against

their interests would certainly be appealable. He also pointed out that, as of

today, the application for modification/setting aside of the Emergency

Arbitrator’s award had been argued before a regularly constituted arbitral

tribunal, which would issue its order either agreeing with or rejecting the

Emergency Arbitrator’s award, from which either his clients or Mr.

Subramanium’s clients would file appeals, depending upon the orders so

passed. He referred to a number of judgments to buttress his submissions. 7. Mr. K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate also appearing on

behalf of FRL, argued that four rules of interpretation of statutes in this

case would necessarily require us to allow these appeals in favour of the

Respondents. First, he argued that the words “as if” contained in Section

17(2) of the Act contain a legal fiction which, when taken to its logical 20 conclusion, would necessarily mean that enforcement proceedings would

be outside the pale of the Arbitration Act and within the confines of the

Code of Civil Procedure . Further, he argued that the use of the expression

“under the Code of Civil Procedure ” in Section 17(2) is legislation by

reference and not by incorporation, leading to the conclusion that it is the

Code of Civil Procedure alone under which enforcement takes place. He

then reiterated that the expression “due regard” contained in Section 36(3) is fundamentally different from the expression “under the Code of Civil

Procedure ”, and that Section 36(1) and Section 17(2) are pari materia

provisions, distinct from Section 36(3) , under which a stay of an award may

be granted under the Arbitration Act with “due regard to the Code of Civil

Procedure ”. He then added that when different words are used in different

provisions, they are meant to be differentiated. He also cited judgments to

buttress each one of these submissions. He then went on to discuss

various High Court judgments which show that, in practice, appeals that are

filed against orders and awards sought to be enforced are filed under the

Code of Civil Procedure and not under the Arbitration Act .

7.1. He then referred to Section 17(1) and, in particular, to the expression

“and the arbitral tribunal shall have the same power for making orders, as

the court has for the purpose of, and in relation to, any proceedings before 21 it” and argued that the expression “in relation to” refers only to incidental

powers given to the tribunal and not to powers of enforcement. He also

argued that the expression “arbitral tribunal” in Section 17(1) is to be read

as defined by Section 2(1)(d) , there being nothing in the context of Section

17(1) to the contrary which would obviate the application of Section 2(1)(d) in the context of Section 17(1) . He then referred to the arbitration clause

between the parties to argue that the parties contemplated, by virtue of section 25 .2 of the FCPL Shareholders’ Agreement, that only civil courts

could pass interim orders until the arbitral tribunal is properly constituted by

the parties. He then referred to a recent judgment of this Court, namely National Highways Authority of India v. M. Hakeem , 2021 SCC OnLine

SC 473 [“NHAI”], arguing that Section 17 was like Section 34(1) of the

Arbitration Act in that nothing could be read into Section 17 so as to

incorporate awards made by an Emergency Arbitrator.

7.2. He then argued that on a reading of Schedule 1 of the SIAC Rules,

an Emergency Arbitrator cannot be said to be like an arbitral tribunal in that,

under Rule 3, the President of the SIAC must first accept as to whether or

not an Emergency Arbitrator be appointed at all. Also, under Rule 9, an

administrative authority alone is given the power to extend time in the

circumstances mentioned in the Rule, and under Rule 10, an Emergency 22 Arbitrator has no power to act after the arbitral tribunal is constituted, the

tribunal not being bound by any reasons given by the Emergency Arbitrator.

From this, he argued that an Emergency Arbitrator does not fit within the Arbitration Act as such arbitrator is not an independent quasi-judicial body

under the Rules. 7.3. He then referred to certain judgments and authorities for the

proposition that a proper reading of Exception 1 to Section 28 of the Indian

Contract Act, 1872 would show that the civil court’s jurisdiction is ousted

and that only what is expressly provided for by the ouster provisions can be

given effect to as nothing can be implied therein. He then argued that the

learned Single Judge was in a great hurry to decide the case and did not

even give sufficient time to the Respondents to file objections to the

enforcement application, though he did concede that notes of written

arguments, including the objection as to an award by an Emergency

Arbitrator being a nullity, were raised before the learned Single Judge. He

also cited various judgments to show that this was a case in which the

Emergency Arbitrator lacked inherent jurisdiction, as a result of which his

clients were justified in ignoring the award passed by the Emergency

Arbitrator. 23 8. Mr. Vikram Nankani, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of

Respondents No. 1 to 12 in Civil Appeal Nos. 4496-4497 of 2021 and

Respondents No. 2 to 13 in Civil Appeal Nos. 4494-4495 of 2021, was at

pains to point out that in the enforcement application, on the facts of this

case, it was specifically pleaded that the High Court was being approached

as a civil court, and that the application was filed only under Order XXXIX,

Rule 2-A. He also cited judgments to show that the provisions of Order

XXXIX, Rule 2-A, being punitive in nature and requiring a heightened

standard of wilful disobedience to be applied cannot be applied routinely or

in the cavalier manner in which the learned Single Judge has applied the

said provision. He also referred to the fact that only the SIAC Rules

pertaining to “arbitration” stricto sensu were agreed to between the parties,

which would exclude rules relating to awards by an Emergency Arbitrator.

He then distinguished the judgment in Kakade Construction (supra) relied

upon by Mr. Chinoy and the judgment in Jet Airways (India) Ltd. v.

Subrata Roy Sahara , 2011 SCC OnLine Bom 1379 : 2012 (2) AIR Bom

855 [“Jet Airways”], stating that they applied only to Section 36 of the Act

and are not authorities qua Section 17 , which is the subject matter of

argument in the facts of the present case. 24 9. Having heard learned counsel for the parties, the first question to be

determined by this Court is whether an Emergency Arbitrator’s award can

be said to be within the contemplation of the Arbitration Act , and whether it

can further be said to be an order under Section 17(1) of the Act. 10. The relevant provisions of the Arbitration Act , so far as this contention

is concerned, are as follows: 11. A reading of these provisions would show that an arbitration

proceeding can be administered by a permanent arbitral institution.

Importantly, Section 2(6) makes it clear that parties are free to authorise

any person including an institution to determine issues that arise between

the parties. Also, under Section 2(8) , party autonomy goes to the extent of

an agreement which includes being governed by arbitration rules referred

to in the aforesaid agreements. Likewise, under Section 19(2) , parties are

free to agree on the procedure to be followed by an arbitral tribunal in

conducting its proceedings. 12. Section 21 provides that arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular

dispute commence on the date on which a request for that dispute to be

referred to arbitration is received by the respondent. This Section is

expressly subject to agreement by the parties. Rule 3.3 of the SIAC Rules

reads as follows: 26 13. A conjoint reading of these provisions coupled with there being no

interdict, either express or by necessary implication, against an Emergency 27 Arbitrator would show that an Emergency Arbitrator’s orders, if provided for

under institutional rules, would be covered by the Arbitration Act . 14. As a matter of fact, a number of judgments of this Court have referred

to the importance of party autonomy as being one of the pillars of

arbitration in the Arbitration Act . Thus, in Antrix Corporation Ltd. v. Devas

Multimedia Pvt. Ltd. , (2014) 11 SCC 560, this Court held as follows: Ltd., 2021 SCC OnLine SC 331 (see paragraphs 101 and 102). 15. A recent judgment in NHAI v. M. Hakeem (supra) dealt with certain

provisions of the National Highways Act, 1956 , which laid down a scheme

of acquisition different from that contained in the Land Acquisition Act,

1984. As part of the said scheme, arbitral awards passed under the National Highways Act were challengeable only under Section 34 of the

Arbitration Act. The question squarely raised before this Court was as to

whether, when a court was empowered to “set aside” awards under Section

34 of the Act, would this power include the power to modify an award. 16. In answering this question, this Court referred to Article 34 of the

UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985

[“Model Law”], and came to the conclusion that given the fact that Section

34 is a verbatim reproduction of Article 34 of the Model Law, it would not

contain any power to modify an arbitral award. In this case, since the

parliamentary intention was crystal clear, and there was no play in the joints

to apply purposive or creative interpretation, this Court came to the

conclusion that only an amendment of the Arbitration Act could set right the

position as otherwise, the Court would be guilty of altering the material of 33 which the Act was woven and not merely ironing out creases which were

found in the statute. 17. By way of contrast, the present is a case akin to Centrotrade (supra). As has been pointed out in Centrotrade (supra), the parties to the contract,

in the present case, by agreeing to the SIAC Rules and the award of the

Emergency Arbitrator, have not bypassed any mandatory provision of the Arbitration Act . There is nothing in the Arbitration Act that prohibits

contracting parties from agreeing to a provision providing for an award

being made by an Emergency Arbitrator. On the contrary, when properly

read, various Sections of the Act which speak of party autonomy in

choosing to be governed by institutional rules would make it clear that the

said rules would apply to govern the rights between the parties, a position

which, far from being prohibited by the Arbitration Act , is specifically

endorsed by it. This judgment is, therefore, entirely distinguishable from the

fact situation in the present case. 18. However, Mr. Salve argued, relying strongly upon the provisions of Sections 10 to 13 , 16 , 17 , 21 , 23 , 27 , 29A , and 30 of the Arbitration Act, in

particular, that the “arbitral tribunal” spoken of in these provisions, and

referable to Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, is exhaustively defined, which means 34 a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators, which, when read with these

provisions, would only include an arbitral tribunal which can not only pass

interim orders, but which is constituted between the parties so that interim

and/or final awards can be passed by this very tribunal. He also argued,

contrasting the language of Section 9(1) with the language of Section

17(1) , that Section 17(1) would only apply where a party, during arbitral

proceedings, applies to an arbitral tribunal (as defined) for interim relief,

which cannot possibly apply to an Emergency Arbitrator who is admittedly

appointed only before an arbitral tribunal is properly constituted. By way of

contrast, he argued that under Section 9(1) , an interim measure by the

courts may be availed by a party even before arbitral proceedings

commence, up to the stage of enforcement in accordance with Section 36 . 19. There can be no doubt that the “arbitral tribunal” as defined in Section

2(1)(d) speaks only of an arbitral tribunal that is constituted between the

parties and which can give interim and final relief, “given the scheme of the

Act”, as Mr. Salve puts it, as contained in the aforementioned Sections.

However, like every other definition section, the definition contained in Section 2(1)(d) only applies “unless the context otherwise requires”. Given

that the definition of “arbitration” in Section 2(1)(a) means any arbitration,

whether or not administered by a permanent arbitral institution, when read 35 with Sections 2(6) and 2(8) , would make it clear that even interim orders

that are passed by Emergency Arbitrators under the rules of a permanent

arbitral institution would, on a proper reading of Section 17(1) , be included

within its ambit. It is significant to note that the words “arbitral proceedings”

are not limited by any definition and thus encompass proceedings before

an Emergency Arbitrator, as has been held hereinabove with reference to Section 21 of the Act read with the SIAC Rules. The short point is as to

whether the definition of “arbitral tribunal” contained in Section 2(1)(d) should so constrict Section 17(1) , making it apply only to an arbitral tribunal

that can give final reliefs by way of an interim or final award. 20. The heart of Section 17(1) is the application by a party for interim

reliefs. There is nothing in Section 17(1) , when read with the other

provisions of the Act, to interdict the application of rules of arbitral

institutions that the parties may have agreed to. This being the position, at

least insofar as Section 17(1) is concerned, the “arbitral tribunal” would,

when institutional rules apply, include an Emergency Arbitrator, the context

of Section 17 “otherwise requiring” – the context being interim measures

that are ordered by arbitrators. The same object and context would apply

even to Section 9(3) which makes it clear that the court shall not entertain

an application for interim relief once an arbitral tribunal is constituted unless 36 the court finds that circumstances exist which may not render the remedy

provided under Section 17 efficacious. Since Section 9(3) and Section 17 form part of one scheme, it is clear that an “arbitral tribunal” as defined

under Section 2(1)(d) would not apply and the arbitral tribunal spoken of in Section 9(3) would be like the “arbitral tribunal” spoken of in Section 17(1) which, as has been held above, would include an Emergency Arbitrator

appointed under institutional rules. 21. However, Mr. Salve relied upon Firm Ashok Traders v. Gurumukh

Das Saluja , (2004) 3 SCC 155 and, in particular, the following passage: 22. Mr. Salve then argued that in any case, the arbitration agreement

between the parties, contained in section 25 .2 of the FCPL Shareholders’

Agreement (pari materia with section 15 .2 of the FRL Shareholders’

Agreement), makes it clear that the SIAC Rules would be subject to the

Indian Arbitration Act, and being so subject, the provisions governing an

award made by an Emergency Arbitrator under the SIAC Rules would not

be applicable between the parties. Sections 25 .1 and 25.2 of the FCPL

Shareholders’ Agreement (pari materia with sections 15 .1 and 15.2 of the

FRL Shareholders’ Agreement) read as follows: 23. Also, Mr. Nankani’s argument that the arbitration agreement

contained in section 25 .2 of the FCPL Shareholders’ Agreement referred to

hereinabove would indicate that the SIAC Rules were only agreed upon

insofar as arbitration alone is concerned is wholly incorrect. Rule 1.3 of the

SIAC Rules indicates that an award of an Emergency Arbitrator is included

within the ambit of these Rules, and that an Emergency Arbitrator, as 39 defined, means an arbitrator appointed in accordance with paragraph 3 of

Schedule 1. This makes it clear beyond doubt that “arbitration” mentioned

in section 25 .2 of the FCPL Shareholders’ Agreement would include an

arbitrator appointed in accordance with the SIAC Rules which, in turn,

would include an Emergency Arbitrator. 24. The SIAC Rules, with which we are immediately concerned, deal with

the concept of an Emergency Arbitrator as follows: No interim order or Award shall be made by the Emergency
 Arbitrator until it has been approved by the Registrar as to its
 form. 10. The Emergency Arbitrator shall have no power to act after
 the Tribunal is constituted. The Tribunal may reconsider, modify
 or vacate any interim order or Award issued by the Emergency
 Arbitrator, including a ruling on his own jurisdiction. The Tribunal
 is not bound by the reasons given by the Emergency Arbitrator.
 Any interim order or Award issued by the Emergency Arbitrator
 shall, in any event, cease to be binding if the Tribunal is not
 constituted within 90 days of such order or Award or when the
 Tribunal makes a final Award or if the claim is withdrawn. * * * 12. The parties agree that an order or Award by an
 Emergency Arbitrator pursuant to this Schedule 1 shall be
 binding on the parties from the date it is made, and undertake
 to carry out the interim order or Award immediately and without
 delay. The parties also irrevocably waive their rights to any form
 of appeal, review or recourse to any State court or other judicial
 authority with respect to such Award insofar as such waiver
 may be validly made.” 25. A reading of the aforesaid Rules indicates that even before an arbitral

Tribunal is constituted under the Rules, urgent interim reliefs can be 42 granted by what is termed as an “Emergency Arbitrator”. An “Emergency

Arbitrator” is defined by Rule 1.3 of these Rules as meaning an arbitrator

appointed in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 1. Under paragraph

7 of Schedule 1, the Emergency Arbitrator has all the powers vested in the

arbitral tribunal pursuant to SIAC Rules, including the authority to rule on

his own jurisdiction. Importantly, under paragraph 8 of Schedule 1 to the

SIAC Rules, the Emergency Arbitrator shall have the power to order such

interim relief that he deems necessary, and is to give summary reasons for

his decision in writing. Under paragraph 9, the interim order is to be made

within 14 days of his appointment, unless time is extended. Importantly,

once the arbitral tribunal is constituted under paragraph 10, the tribunal

may reconsider, modify, or vacate any such interim order. Such interim

order or award issued by the Emergency Arbitrator will continue to bind the

parties unless it is modified or vacated by the arbitral tribunal, once it is

constituted, until the tribunal makes a final award or until the claim is

withdrawn. Paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 also provides that any interim order

or award made by the Emergency Arbitrator shall cease to be binding only

if the tribunal is not constituted within 90 days of such order or award.

Under paragraph 12, the parties agree that such orders shall be binding on 43 the parties from the date it is made and undertake to carry out the interim

order immediately and without delay. 26. No doubt, as has been submitted, the 246 th Law Commission Report

did provide for the insertion of an Emergency Arbitrator’s orders into Section 2(1)(d) of the Arbitration Act as follows: 27. As has been held in Avitel Post Studioz Ltd. & Ors. v. HSBC PI

Holdings (Mauritius) Ltd. , (2021) 4 SCC 713, the mere fact that a

recommendation of a Law Commission Report is not followed by

Parliament, would not necessarily lead to the conclusion that what has

been suggested by the Law Commission cannot form part of the statute as

properly interpreted. This Court held: Maestro Engineers [N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro
 Engineers, (2010) 1 SCC 72 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ) 12])
 which appear to denude an Arbitral Tribunal of the power
 to decide on issues of fraud, etc.]” 28. Mr Saurabh Kirpal then referred to the fact that the
aforesaid sub-section was not inserted by Parliament by the
2015 Amendment Act, which largely incorporated other
amendments proposed by the Law Commission. His argument
therefore was that N. Radhakrishnan [N. Radhakrishnan v.
Maestro Engineers, (2010) 1 SCC 72] not having been
legislatively overruled, cannot now be said to be in any way
deprived of its precedential value, as Parliament has taken note
of the proposed Section 16(7) in the 246th Law Commission
Report, and has expressly chosen not to enact it. For this
proposition, he referred to La Pintada [President of India v. La
Pintada Compania Navigacion SA, 1985 AC 104 : (1984) 3
WLR 10 (HL)]. This judgment related to a challenge to an award
granting compound interest, inter alia, in a case where a debt is
paid late, but before any proceedings for its recovery had
begun. 28. He then referred to the fact that the aforesaid sub-section
was not inserted by Parliament by the 2015 Amendment Act,
which largely incorporated other amendments proposed by the 45 Law Commission. His argument therefore was that N.
Radhakrishnan [N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers,
(2010) 1 SCC 72] not having been legislatively overruled,
cannot now be said to be in any way deprived of its
precedential value, as Parliament has taken note of the
proposed section 16(7) in the 246 th Law Commission Report,
and has expressly chosen not to enact it. For this proposition,
he referred to La Pintada (supra). This judgment related to a
challenge to an award granting compound interest, inter alia, in
a case where a debt is paid late, but before any proceedings for
its recovery had begun. 29. Lord Brandon of Oakbrook, who wrote the main judgment in
this case, stated: (La Pintada case [President of India v. La
Pintada Compania Navigacion SA, 1985 AC 104 : (1984) 3
WLR 10 (HL)] , AC p. 122)
 “There are three cases in which the absence of any
 common law remedy for damage or loss caused by the
 late payment of a debt may arise, cases which I shall in
 what follows describe for convenience as Case 1, Case 2
 and Case 3. Case 1 is where a debt is paid late, before
 any proceedings for its recovery have been begun. Case
 2 is where a debt is paid late, after proceedings for its
 recovery have been begun, but before they have been
 concluded. Case 3 is where a debt remains unpaid until
 as a result of proceedings for its recovery being brought
 and prosecuted to a conclusion, a money judgment is
 given in which the original debt becomes merged.”
 * * *
“32. It is a little difficult to apply this case to resurrect the ratio
of N. Radhakrishnan [N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers,
(2010) 1 SCC 72] as a binding precedent given the advance
made in the law by this Court since N. Radhakrishnan was
decided. Quite apart from what has been stated by us in paras
17 to 21 above, as to how N. Radhakrishnan cannot be
considered to be a binding precedent for the reasons given in
the said paragraph, we are of the view that the development of
the law by this Court cannot be thwarted merely because a
certain provision recommended in a Law Commission Report is
not enacted by Parliament. Parliament may have felt, as was 46 mentioned by Lord Reid in British Railways Board v. Herrington [British Railways Board v. Herrington, 1972 AC 877 : India’s approach differs from that of developed arbitration
jurisdictions such as Singapore and Hong Kong which have
recognised the enforceability of orders given by an emergency
arbitrator. Singapore amended the IAA in 2012 to broaden the
definition of ‘arbitral tribunal’ in section 2(1) to include
emergency arbitrator(s). Hong Kong amended the AO in 2013
to include Part 3A which deals with the enforcement of
emergency relief. Section 22B provides that emergency relief
granted by an emergency arbitrator shall with the leave of the
Court of First Instance of the High Court be enforceable in the
same manner as an order or direction of the Court. Given that international practice is in favour of enforcing
emergency awards (Singapore, Hong Kong and the United
Kingdom all permit enforcement of emergency awards), it is
time that India permitted the enforcement of emergency awards
in all arbitral proceedings. This would also provide legislative
support to rules of arbitral institutions that presently provide for
emergency arbitrators (See Dennis Nolan and Roger Abrams,
‘Arbitral Immunity’, Berkeley Journal of Employment and Labour
Law, Vol. 11 Issue 2 (1989), pp.228–266). For this purpose, the
recommendation made by the LCI in its 246 th Report may be
adopted.” 48 29. The Delhi High Court judgment in Raffles Design International

India Pvt. Ltd. v. Educomp Professional Education Ltd. , 2016 SCC

OnLine Del 5521 : (2016) 234 DLT 349 dealt with an award by an

Emergency Arbitrator in an arbitration seated outside India (as was

mentioned in Srikrishna Committee Report). What is of significance is that

the said Report laid down that it is possible to interpret Section 17(2) of the

Act to enforce emergency awards for arbitrations seated in India, and

recommended that the Act be amended only so that it comes in line with

international practice in favour of recognising and enforcing an emergency

award. 30. It is relevant to note that the 246 th Law Commission Report also

recommended the insertion of Section 9(2) and 9(3) as follows: [NOTE: This amendment is to ensure the timely initiation of
 arbitration proceedings by a party who is granted an interim
 measure of protection.] 49 (iii) Add sub-section “(3) Once the Arbitral Tribunal has been
 constituted, the Court shall, ordinarily, not entertain an
 Application under this provision unless circumstances exist
 owing to which the remedy under section 17 is not efficacious.”
 [NOTE: This amendment seeks to reduce the role of the Court
 in relation to grant of interim measures once the Arbitral
 Tribunal has been constituted. After all, once the Tribunal is
 seized of the matter it is most appropriate for the Tribunal to
 hear all interim applications. This also appears to be the spirit of
 the UNCITRAL Model Law as amended in 2006. Accordingly, section 17 has been amended to provide the
 Arbitral Tribunal the same powers as a Court would have under section 9 ]” 31. The 2015 Amendment Act, therefore, introduced sub-sections (2) and

(3) to Section 9 , which read as follows: 32. In essence, what is provided by the SIAC Rules and the other

institutional rules, is reflected in Sections 9(2) and 9(3) so far as interim

orders passed by courts are concerned. The introduction of Sections 9(2) 50 and 9(3) would show that the objective was to avoid courts being flooded

with Section 9 petitions when an arbitral tribunal is constituted for two good

reasons – (i) that the clogged court system ought to be decongested, and (ii) that an arbitral tribunal, once constituted, would be able to grant interim

relief in a timely and efficacious manner. 33. Similarly, the 246th Law Commission Report recommended the

amendment of Section 17 as follows: Further, this would also be in tune with the spirit of the
 UNCITRAL Model Law as amended in 2006.] (vii) delete words in sub-section (2) and add the words “(2)
 Subject to any orders passed in appeal under section 37 , any
 order issued by the arbitral tribunal under this section shall be
 deemed to be an Order of the Court for all purposes and shall
 be enforceable under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 in the
 same manner as if it were an Order of the Court.” 51 [NOTE: This is to ensure the effective enforcement of interim
 measures that may be ordered by an arbitral tribunal.]” 34. Section 17 was then amended by the very same 2015 Amendment

Act (which brought in sub-sections (2) and (3) to Section 9 ) to substitute Section 17 so that Section 17(1) would be a mirror image of Section 9(1) ,

making it clear that an arbitral tribunal is fully clothed with the same power

as a court to provide for interim relief. Also, Section 17(2) was added so as

to provide for enforceability of such orders, again, as if they were orders

passed by a court, thereby bringing Section 17 on par with Section 9 . 35. An Emergency Arbitrator’s “award”, i.e., order, would undoubtedly be

an order which furthers these very objectives, i.e., to decongest the court

system and to give the parties urgent interim relief in cases which deserve

such relief. Given the fact that party autonomy is respected by the Act and

that there is otherwise no interdict against an Emergency Arbitrator being

appointed, as has been held by us hereinabove, it is clear that an

Emergency Arbitrator’s order, which is exactly like an order of an arbitral

tribunal once properly constituted, in that parties have to be heard and

reasons are to be given, would fall within the institutional rules to which the

parties have agreed, and would consequently be covered by Section 17(1) ,

when read with the other provisions of the Act, as delineated above. 52 36. A party cannot be heard to say, after it participates in an Emergency

Award proceeding, having agreed to institutional rules made in that regard,

that thereafter it will not be bound by an Emergency Arbitrator’s ruling. As

we have seen hereinabove, having agreed to paragraph 12 of Schedule 1

to the SIAC Rules, it cannot lie in the mouth of a party to ignore an

Emergency Arbitrator’s award by stating that it is a nullity when such party

expressly agrees to the binding nature of such award from the date it is

made and further undertakes to carry out the said interim order immediately

and without delay. 37. However, Mr. Viswanathan argued that an Emergency Arbitrator

under the SIAC Rules is not an independent judicial body like an arbitral

tribunal constituted under the very Rules, and referred to and relied upon

Rules 3, 9, and 10 to buttress this proposition. Rule 3 merely states that the

President may appoint an Emergency Arbitrator if he determines that the

SIAC should accept the application for emergency interim relief. Once the

Emergency Arbitrator enters upon the reference, he is given all the powers

of an arbitral tribunal under Rule 7 and is to decide completely

independently of any other administrative authority under the SIAC Rules.

Equally, Rule 9 does not, in any manner, impinge upon the independence

of the Emergency Arbitrator as it only lays down the timeframe within which 53 an interim order or award is to be made, which time is extendable by the

Registrar. The interim order or award that is finally made by the Emergency

Arbitrator has only to be approved by the Registrar as to its “form” and not

on merits. Further, Rule 10 also does not, in any manner, interfere with the

independence of the decision of the Emergency Arbitrator. This argument

is, therefore, rejected. 38. Mr. Viswanathan also went on to argue, relying upon Section 28 of

the Contract Act, Justice R.S. Bachawat’s Law of Arbitration and

Conciliation (Sixth Ed., LexisNexis), and the Chancery Division judgment of

In Re Franklin and Swathling’s Arbitration, [1929] 1 Ch. 238, for the

proposition that arbitration, conceptually, is an ouster of the civil court’s

jurisdiction and that, therefore, only what is expressly provided in the ouster

provisions can be followed – there is no room for any implication here. This

argument may have found favour with a court if it were dealing with Arbitration Act, 1940 . As has been held in several decisions of this Court,

the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is a complete break with the past

and is no longer to be viewed as an ouster statute but as a statute which

favours the remedy of arbitration so as to de-clog civil courts which are, in

today’s milieu, extremely burdened. As a matter of fact, Section 5 of the

Arbitration Act puts paid to the submission when it overrides all other laws 54 for the time being in force and goes on to state that in matters governed by Part I of the Act , no judicial authority shall intervene except where so

provided in that Part. The Arbitration Act , therefore, turns the principle of

ouster on its head when it comes to arbitration as a favoured means of

resolving civil disputes. This argument also, therefore, stands rejected. 39. Even otherwise, as has been correctly pointed out by Mr.

Subramanium, no order bears the stamp of invalidity on its forehead and

has to be set aside in regular court proceedings as being illegal. This is

felicitously stated in several judgments – See Krishnadevi Malchand

Kamathia v. Bombay Environmental Action Group , ( 2011) 3 SCC 363

(at paragraphs 16 to 19), and Anita International v. Tungabadra Sugar

Works Mazdoor Sangh , (2016) 9 SCC 44 (at paragraphs 54 and 55). As a

matter of fact, in Tayabbhai M. Bagasarwalla v. Hind Rubber Industries

(P) Ltd. , (1997) 3 SCC 443, this Court has unequivocally held that even if

an order is later set aside as having been passed without jurisdiction, for

the period of its subsistence, it is an order that must be obeyed. This Court

held: Take this very case. The plaintiff asked for temporary injunction.
An ad interim injunction was granted. Then the defendants
came forward objecting to the grant of injunction and also
raising an objection to the jurisdiction of the court. The court
overruled the objection as to jurisdiction and made the interim
injunction absolute. The defendants filed an appeal against the
decision on the question of jurisdiction. While that appeal was
pending, several other interim orders were passed both by the
Civil Court as well as by the High Court. Ultimately, no doubt,
the High Court has found that the Civil Court had no jurisdiction
to entertain the suit but all this took about six years. Can it be
said that orders passed by the Civil Court and the High Court
during this period of six years were all non est and that it is
open to the defendants to flout them merrily, without fear of any
consequence. Admittedly, this could not be done until the High
Court's decision on the question of jurisdiction. The question is
whether the said decision of the High Court means that no
person can be punished for flouting or disobeying the
interim/interlocutory orders while they were in force, i.e., for
violations and disobedience committed prior to the decision of
the High Court on the question of jurisdiction. Holding that by
virtue of the said decision of the High Court (on the question of
jurisdiction), no one can be punished thereafter for 57 disobedience or violation of the interim orders committed prior
to the said decision of the High Court, would indeed be
subversive of the Rule of Law and would seriously erode the
dignity and the authority of the courts. We must repeat that this
is not even a case where a suit was filed in the wrong court
knowingly or only with a view to snatch an interim order. As
pointed out hereinabove, the suit was filed in the Civil Court
bona fide. We are of the opinion that in such a case the
defendants cannot escape the consequences of their
disobedience and violation of the interim injunction committed
by them prior to the High Court's decision on the question of
jurisdiction. * * *
“27. The learned counsel for Defendants 1 and 2 submitted that
this is not a proceeding for contempt but a proceeding under
Rule 2-A of Order 39 of the Civil Procedure Code. The learned
counsel submitted that proceedings under Order 39 Rule 2-A
are a part of the coercive process to secure obedience to its
injunction and that once it is found that the Court has no
jurisdiction, question of securing obedience to its orders any
further does not arise. The learned counsel also submitted that
enforcing the interim order after it is found that the Court had no
jurisdiction to try the said suit would not only be unjust and
illegal but would also reflect adversely upon the dignity and
authority of the Court. It is also suggested that the plaintiff had
instituted the present suit in the Civil Court knowing fully well
that it had no jurisdiction to try it. It is not possible to agree with
any of these submissions not only on principle but also in the
light of the specific provision contained in Section 9-A of the
Code of Civil Procedure (Maharashtra Amendment). In the light
of the said provision, it would not be right to say that the Civil
Court had no jurisdiction to pass interim orders or interim
injunction, as the case may be, pending decision on the
question of jurisdiction. The orders made were within the
jurisdiction of the Court and once this is so, they have to be
obeyed and implemented. It is not as if the defendants are
being sought to be punished for violations committed after the
decision of the High Court on the question of jurisdiction of the
Civil Court. Here the defendants are sought to be punished for
the disobedience and violation of the order of injunction 58 committed before the decision of the High Court in Vishanji Virji
 Mepani [AIR 1996 Bom 366]. According to Section 9-A, the Civil
 Court and the High Court did have the power to pass interim
 orders until that decision. If they had that power, they must also
 have the power to enforce them. In the light of the said
 provision, it cannot also be held that those orders could be
 enforced only till the said decision but not thereafter. The said
 decision does not render them (the interim orders passed
 meanwhile) either non est or without jurisdiction. Punishing the
 defendants for violation of the said orders committed before the
 said decision (Vishanji Virji Mepani [AIR 1996 Bom 366]) does
 not amount, in any event, to enforcing them after the said
 decision . Only the orders are being passed now. The violations
 are those committed before the said decision.” 40. However, learned counsel for the Respondents referred to and relied

upon the classic passage in Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan , (1955) 1

SCR 117 (at page 122) and various other judgments following it to contend

that in cases of inherent lack of jurisdiction, it would be open to a party to

ignore an award by an Emergency Arbitrator. They also referred to the

judgment in CIT v. Pearl Mechanical Engineering & Foundry Works (P)

Ltd. , (2004) 4 SCC 597, where this Court spoke of the jurisdiction of a

court or tribunal by stating that such jurisdiction only subsists when a court

or tribunal exercises such jurisdiction from the law. It is a power which

nobody on whom the law is not conferred can exercise. None of these

judgments are applicable in the fact situation of the present case. On the

contrary, we have pointed out that no party, after agreeing to be governed 59 by institutional rules, can participate in a proceeding before an Emergency

Arbitrator and, after losing, turn around and say that the award is a nullity or

coram non judice when there is nothing in the Arbitration Act which

interdicts an Emergency Arbitrator’s order from being made. As has been

pointed out, Section 17 , as construed in the light of the other provisions of

the Act, clearly leads to the position that such emergency award is made

under the provisions of Section 17(1) and can be enforced under the

provisions of Section 17(2) . 41. We, therefore, answer the first question by declaring that full party

autonomy is given by the Arbitration Act to have a dispute decided in

accordance with institutional rules which can include Emergency Arbitrators

delivering interim orders, described as “awards”. Such orders are an

important step in aid of decongesting the civil courts and affording

expeditious interim relief to the parties. Such orders are referable to and

are made under Section 17(1) of the Arbitration Act. 42. We now come to the question as to the maintainability of the appeal

that has been filed under Order XLIII, Rule 1(r). Order XLIII, Rule 1(r) reads

as under: 43. In order to answer this question, it is important to advert to Sections

9 , 17 , and 37 of the Arbitration Act. Section 9(1) reads as follows: 44. As has been pointed out hereinabove, the Law Commission

recommended an amendment to Section 17 to provide the arbitral tribunal

the same powers as a court would have under Section 9 . 45. Section 9(1) , after setting out in clauses (i) and (ii) what interim

measures or protection could be granted, then goes on to add, “and the

court shall have the same power for making orders as it has for the

purpose of, and in relation to, any proceedings before it”. 46. The italicised words arose for interpretation in Adhunik Steels Ltd. v.

Orissa Manganese and Minerals (P) Ltd. , (2007) 7 SCC 125. In

paragraph 11 of the judgment, this Court held: 47. Quite apart from the above, the language of the last part of Section

9(1) clearly refers to Section 94 of the Code of Civil Procedure read with

Order XXXIX thereof. Section 94 of the Code of Civil Procedure reads as

follows: (2) The Court may by order grant such injunction, on such
 terms as to the duration of the injunction, keeping an account,
 giving security, or otherwise, as the Court thinks fit. 66 2-A. Consequence of disobedience or breach of injunction. —(1) In the case of disobedience of any injunction granted or
 other order made under Rule 1 or Rule 2 or breach of any of
 the terms on which the injunction was granted or the order
 made, of the Court granting the injunction or making the order,
 or any Court to which the suit or proceeding is transferred, may
 order the property of the person guilty of such disobedience or
 breach to be attached, and may also order such person to be
 detained in the civil prison for a term not exceeding three
 months, unless in the meantime the Court directs his release.
 (2) No attachment made under this rule shall remain in force for
 more than one year, at the end of which time, if the
 disobedience or breach continues, the property attached may
 be sold and out of the proceeds, the Court may award such
 compensation as it thinks fit to the injured party and shall pay
 the balance, if any, to the party entitled thereto.”

Prior to the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 [“1976

Amendment Act”], disobedience of an injunction or breach of any of its

terms was enforced under sub-rules (3) and (4) of Order XXXIX, Rule 2 as

follows: 48. A reading of Order XXXIX, Rule 2(3) and 2(4) as it originally stood,

and Order XXXIX, Rule 2-A as it stands after the 1976 Amendment Act is to

“prescribe” under Section 94 of the Code of Civil Procedure as to what is

the consequence when a temporary injunction order and/or an order

appointing a receiver of property is flouted. The consequences are

mentioned in Sections 94(c) and (d) itself and fleshed out by Order XXXIX

as aforesaid. 68 49. Mr. Nankani cited the judgment of Food Corporation of India v.

Sukh Deo Prasad , (2009) 5 SCC 665, in which he relied upon the

following observations of this Court: 50. It is one thing to say that the power exercised by a court under Order

XXXIX, Rule 2-A is punitive in nature and akin to the power to punish for

civil contempt under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 . It is quite another

thing to say that Order XXXIX, Rule 2-A requires not “mere disobedience”

but “wilful disobedience”. We are prima facie of the view that the latter

judgment in adding the word “wilful” into Order XXXIX, Rule 2-A is not quite

correct and may require to be reviewed by a larger Bench. Suffice it to say

that there is a vast difference between enforcement of orders passed under

Order XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2 and orders made in contempt of court. Orders

which are in contempt of court are made primarily to punish the offender by

imposing a fine or a jail sentence or both. On the other hand, Order XXXIX,

Rule 2-A is primarily intended to enforce orders passed under Order

XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2, and for that purpose, civil courts are given vast

powers which include the power to attach property, apart from passing

orders of imprisonment, which are punitive in nature. 1 Orders passed under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration Act, using the power contained in Order

XXXIX, Rule 2-A are, therefore, properly referable only to the Arbitration

1 When an order for permanent injunction is to be enforced, Order XXI, Rule 32
provides for attachment and/or detention in a civil prison. Orders that are passed under
Order XXI, Rule 32 are primarily intended to enforce injunction decrees by methods
similar to those contained in Order XXXIX, Rule 2-A. This also shows the object of
Order XXXIX, Rule 2-A is primarily to enforce orders of interim injunction. 70 Act. Neither of the aforesaid judgments are an authority for any proposition

of law to the contrary. 51. It is well settled that the expression “in relation to”, which occurs in

both Section 9(1) and Section 17(1) , is an expression which is

comprehensive in nature, having both a direct as well as an indirect

significance. Thus, in Bandekar Brothers Pvt. Ltd. v. Prasad Vassudev

Keni , 2020 SCC OnLine SC 707 this Court held: 52. As a matter of fact, the judgment of this Court in Thyssen

Stahlunion Gmbh v. Steel Authority of India Ltd. , (1999) 9 SCC 334, set

out Section 85 of the Arbitration Act in paragraph 2 as follows: 53. Coupled with this, the expression “any proceedings”, occurring in Section 9(1) and Section 17(1) , would also be an expression

comprehensive enough to take in enforcement proceedings. The

expression “any” has been construed by some of the judgments of this

Court. Thus, in Shri Balaganesan Metals v. M.N. Shanmugham Chetty ,

(1987) 2 SCC 707, in context of Section 10(3)(c) of the Tamil Nadu

Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960, this Court held as follows: 54. Properly so read, the expressions “in relation to” and “any

proceedings” would include the power to enforce orders that are made

under Section 9(1) , and are not limited to incidental powers to make interim

orders, as was suggested by Mr. Viswanathan. Thus, if an order under Section 9(1) is flouted by any party, proceedings for enforcement of the

same are available to the court making such orders under Section 9(1) .

These powers are, therefore, traceable directly to Section 9(1) of the Act –

which then takes us to the Code of Civil Procedure . Thus, an order made

under Order XXXIX Rule 2-A, in enforcement of an order made under Section 9 , would also be referable to Section 9(1) of the Arbitration Act. 55. Given the fact that the 2015 Amendment Act has provided in Section

17(1) the same powers to an arbitral tribunal as are given to a court, it

would be anomalous to hold that if an interim order was passed by the

tribunal and then enforced by the court with reference to Order XXXIX Rule

2-A of the Code of Civil Procedure , such order would not be referable to Section 17 . Section 17(2) was necessitated because the earlier law on

enforcement of an arbitral tribunal’s interim orders was found to be too

cumbersome. Thus, in Alka Chandewar v. Shamshul Ishrar Khan , (2017)

16 SCC 119, this Court referred to the earlier position as follows: 78 17 is an important provision, which is crucial to the
 working of the arbitration system, since it ensures that
 even for the purposes of interim measures, the parties
 can approach the Arbitral Tribunal rather than await
 orders from a court. The efficacy of Section 17 is
 however, seriously compromised given the lack of any
 suitable statutory mechanism for the enforcement of such
 interim orders of the Arbitral Tribunal. 47. In Sundaram Finance Ltd. [Sundaram Finance Ltd.
 v. NEPC India Ltd. , (1999) 2 SCC 479], the Supreme
 Court observed that though Section 17 gives the Arbitral
 Tribunal the power to pass orders, the same cannot be
 enforced as orders of a court and it is for this reason only
 that Section 9 gives the court power to pass interim
 orders during the arbitration proceedings. Subsequently,
 in Army Welfare Housing Organisation v. Sumangal
 Services (P) Ltd. , (2004) 9 SCC 619, the Court had held
 that under Section 17 of the Act no power is conferred on
 the Arbitral Tribunal to enforce its order nor does it
 provide for judicial enforcement thereof. 48. In the face of such categorical judicial opinion, the
 Delhi High Court attempted to find a suitable legislative
 basis for enforcing the orders of the Arbitral Tribunal
 under Section 17 in Sri Krishan v. Anand , 2009 SCC
 OnLine Del 2472 : (2009) 112 DRJ 657 : (2009) 3 Arb LR
 447 [followed in Indiabulls Financial Services Ltd. v. 79 Jubilee Plots & Housing (P) Ltd. , 2009 SCC OnLine Del
 2458]. The Delhi High Court held that any person failing to
 comply with the order of the Arbitral Tribunal under Section 17 would be deemed to be “making any other
 default” or “guilty of any contempt to the Arbitral Tribunal
 during the conduct of the proceedings” under Section
 27(5) of Act. The remedy of the aggrieved party would
 then be to apply to the Arbitral Tribunal for making a
 representation to the court to mete out appropriate
 punishment. Once such a representation is received by
 the court from the Arbitral Tribunal, the court would be
 competent to deal with such party in default as if it is in
 contempt of an order of the court i.e., either under the
 provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act or under the
 provisions of Order 39 Rule 2-A of the Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908. 49. The Commission believes that while it is important
 to provide teeth to the interim orders of the Arbitral
 Tribunal as well as to provide for their enforcement, the
 judgment of the Delhi High Court in Sri Krishan v. Anand ,
 2009 SCC OnLine Del 2472 : (2009) 112 DRJ 657 : There is no doubt that the arbitral tribunal cannot itself enforce its orders,

which can only be done by a court with reference to the Code of Civil

Procedure . But the court, when it acts under Section 17(2) , acts in the

same manner as it acts to enforce a court order made under Section 9(1) . If

this is so, then what is clear is that the arbitral tribunal’s order gets enforced

under Section 17(2) read with the Code of Civil Procedure . 57. There is no doubt that Section 17(2) creates a legal fiction. This

fiction is created only for the purpose of enforceability of interim orders

made by the arbitral tribunal. To extend it to appeals being filed under the

Code of Civil Procedure would be a big leap not envisaged by the

legislature at all in enacting the said fiction. As a matter of fact, this Court,

in Paramjeet Singh Patheja v. ICDS Ltd. , (2006) 13 SCC 322, dealt with Section 36 of the Arbitration Act as it stood immediately before the 2015

Amendment Act ( Section 36 as it then stood is the mirror image of Section

36(1) post amendment). In answering the question raised before it – as to

whether an arbitration award can be said to be a decree for the purpose of Section 9 of the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909, this Court held: 81 Only under the Arbitration Act, 1940 , was the award required to
 be made a rule of court i.e., required a judgment followed by a
 decree of court. 41. Issuance of a notice under the Insolvency Act is fraught with
 serious consequences: it is intended to bring about a drastic
 change in the status of the person against whom a notice is
 issued viz. to declare him an insolvent with all the attendant
 disabilities. Therefore, firstly, such a notice was intended to be
 issued only after a regularly constituted court, a component of
 the judicial organ established for the dispensation of justice,
 has passed a decree or order for the payment of money.
 Secondly, a notice under the Insolvency Act is not a mode of
 enforcing a debt; enforcement is done by taking steps for
 execution available under CPC for realising monies. 42. The words “as if” demonstrate that award and decree or
 order are two different things. The legal fiction created is for the
 limited purpose of enforcement as a decree. The fiction is not
 intended to make it a decree for all purposes under all statutes,
 whether State or Central.”
 (emphasis supplied) 58. Mr. Viswanathan cited the judgment Rajasthan State Industrial

Development & Investment Corporation v. Diamond & Gem

Development Corporation Ltd. , (2013) 5 SCC 470. Far from supporting 82 his contention that the legal fiction contained in Section 17(2) extends to

the filing of an appeal under the Code of Civil Procedure as enforcement

proceedings are different from interim orders, paragraph 26 states as

follows: 59. There can be no doubt that the legal fiction created under Section

17(2) for enforcement of interim orders is created only for the limited

purpose of enforcement as a decree of the court. To extend this fiction to

encompass appeals from such orders is to go beyond the clear intention of

the legislature. Mr. Salve’s argument in stressing the words “under the 84 Code of Civil Procedure ” in Section 17(2) , thus holds no water as a limited

fiction for the purpose of enforcement cannot be elevated to the level of a

genie which has been released from a statutory provision and which would

encompass matters never in the contemplation of the legislature. 60. In a recent judgment of this Court in Union of India v. Vedanta Ltd. ,

(2020) 10 SCC 1, this Court held that a petition to enforce a foreign award,

made under Section 49 of the Arbitration Act, is governed by Article 137 of

the Limitation Act, 1963 and not by Article 136 of the said Act. This

conclusion was arrived at as follows: * * * 42. The words “as if” demonstrate that award and
 decree or order are two different things. The legal fiction
 created is for the limited purpose of enforcement as a
 decree. The fiction is not intended to make it a decree for
 all purposes under all statutes, whether State or Central.”
 (emphasis in original)
 * * *
“72. Foreign awards are not decrees of an Indian civil court. By
a legal fiction, Section 49 provides that a foreign award, after it
is granted recognition and enforcement under Section 48 ,
would be deemed to be a decree of “that court” for the limited
purpose of enforcement. The phrase “that court” refers to the
court which has adjudicated upon the petition filed under Sections 47 and 49 for enforcement of the foreign award. In our
view, Article 136 of the Limitation Act would not be applicable
for the enforcement/execution of a foreign award, since it is not
a decree of a civil court in India. 73. The enforcement of a foreign award as a deemed decree of
the High Court concerned [as per the amended Explanation to Section 47 by Act 3 of 2016 confers exclusive jurisdiction on the
High Court for execution of foreign awards] would be covered
by the residuary provision i.e. Article 137 of the Limitation Act . A
three-Judge Bench of this Court in Kerala SEB v. T.P.
Kunhaliumma [Kerala SEB v. T.P. Kunhaliumma, (1976) 4 SCC
634] held that the phrase “any other application” in Article 137 cannot be interpreted on the principle of ejusdem generis to be 86 applications under the Civil Procedure Code. The phrase “any
 other application” used in Article 137 would include petitions
 within the word “applications”, filed under any special
 enactment. This would be evident from the definition of
 “application” under Section 2(b) of the Limitation Act, which
 includes a petition. Article 137 stands in isolation from all other
 Articles in Part I of the Third Division of the Limitation Act,
 1963.”
 * * *
 “77. The application under Sections 47 and 49 for enforcement
 of the foreign award, is a substantive petition filed under the Arbitration Act, 1996 . It is a well-settled position that the Arbitration Act is a self-contained code. [ Fuerst Day Lawson
 Ltd. v. Jindal Exports Ltd. , (2011) 8 SCC 333 : (2011) 4 SCC
 (Civ) 178; Kandla Export Corpn. v. OCI Corpn. , (2018) 14 SCC
 715 : (2018) 4 SCC (Civ) 664; Shivnath Rai Harnarain (India)
 Co. v. Glencore Grain Rotterdam , 2009 SCC OnLine Del 3564 : 61. Mr. Salve then painted a lurid picture of third parties being affected in

enforcement proceedings. No such third party is before us. As to a third

party, i.e., a party who is not a party to the arbitration agreement and to the

subject matter covered by the award and who is affected by an order made

in enforcement, we say nothing, leaving the question open to be argued on

the facts of a future case. 88 62. Mr. Salve then read the provisions of the New Zealand Arbitration Act,

1996, the Hong Kong Arbitration Ordinance (Cap. 209), the Singapore

Arbitration Act, 2001 as well as the Singapore International Arbitration Act,

1994, and the English Arbitration Act, 1996 to argue that in all the aforesaid

legislations, awards passed by an Emergency Arbitrator were expressly

included with varying provisions as to their enforcement. A contrast of these

legislations with the provisions of the Indian Arbitration Act, again, does not

take us very far, given the fact that we have, on a proper interpretation of

the said Act, held that an award/order by an Emergency Arbitrator would be

covered by Section 17 of the Arbitration Act, when properly read with other

provisions of the Act. 63. Mr. Salve and Mr. Viswanathan then argued that Section 36(1) , which

is a pari materia provision with Section 17(2) , must be contrasted with the

provisions of Section 36(3) . They argued that there is a basic difference

between having “due regard to the provisions for grant of stay of a money

decree under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure ” and

enforcement of an award “in accordance with the provisions of the Code of

Civil Procedure ”. According to them, it is clear that the court granting a stay

under sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 36 does so under the Arbitration

Act only having due regard to the provisions regarding grant of stay of a 89 money decree under the Code of Civil Procedure . By way of contrast, an

award is enforced in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil

Procedure and not under the Arbitration Act . It was also argued that Section

17(2) and Section 36(1) are instances of legislation by reference and not

legislation by incorporation. 64. The interpretation of Section 36 is not before us – the interpretation

of Section 17 read with Section 9 is. As far as Section 17 is concerned, as

has been pointed out by us hereinabove, the scheme qua interim orders

passed by an arbitral tribunal mirrors the scheme qua interim orders

passed by civil courts under Section 9 . This vital difference between the

provisions of Section 17 read with Section 9 and as contrasted with Section

36 puts paid to this argument. 65. We will now deal with some of the judgments of this Court cited by

the learned counsel for the Respondents. They strongly relied upon the

judgment of the Delhi High Court in Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. v.

Numaligarh Refinery Ltd. , 2009 SCC OnLine Del 511 : (2009) 159 DLT

579 [“Daelim Industrial Co.”] for the proposition that enforcement

applications under Section 36 of the Arbitration Act are independent of

arbitral proceedings which culminate in an award. The Delhi High Court 90 held that since execution applications would be governed by Sections 38 and 39 of the Code of Civil Procedure, Section 42 of the Arbitration Act

cannot be held to apply and as a result, the courts mentioned in Sections

38 and 39 of the Code of Civil Procedure would have jurisdiction to execute

arbitral awards. 66. In Sundaram Finance Ltd. v. Abdul Samad , (2018) 3 SCC 622, this

Court, in paragraph 18, referred to Daelim Industrial Co. (supra) with

approval. The question which arose before this Court was posed thus: 67. The learned counsel for the Respondents then relied upon the Full

Bench judgment of the Bombay High Court in Gemini Bay Transcription

Pvt. Ltd. v. Integrated Sales Service Ltd. , 2018 SCC OnLine Bom 216 : 68. Mr. Salve then relied upon Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation

Ltd. v. Atwal Rice & General Mills , (2017) 8 SCC 116. This judgment

dealt with objections to the enforcement of an arbitral award in execution.

In the course of dealing with the aforesaid objections, the Court observed: 69. We now come to the appeal provision in the Arbitration Act . There

can be no doubt that Section 37 is a complete code so far as appeals from

orders and awards made under the Arbitration Act are concerned. This has

further been strengthened by the addition of the non-obstante clause by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2019 . 70. This Court, in Kandla Export Corporation v. OCI Corporation ,

(2018) 14 SCC 715 [“Kandla Export”], held in the context of a Section 50

appeal as follows: In all arbitration cases of enforcement of foreign awards, it is
Section 50 alone that provides an appeal. Having provided for
an appeal, the forum of appeal is left “to the Court authorised
by law to hear appeals from such orders”. Section 50 properly
read would, therefore, mean that if an appeal lies under the
said provision, then alone would Section 13(1) of the
Commercial Courts Act be attracted as laying down the forum
which will hear and decide such an appeal. 23. In fact, in Sumitomo Corpn. v. CDC Financial Services
(Mauritius) Ltd. [Sumitomo Corpn. v. CDC Financial Services
(Mauritius) Ltd., (2008) 4 SCC 91], this Court adverted to Section 50 of the Arbitration Act and to Sections 10(1)(a) and 10-F of the Companies Act, 1956, to hold that once an appeal is
provided for in Section 50, the Court authorised by law to hear
such appeals would then be found in Sections 10(1)(a) and 10-
F of the Companies Act. The present case is a parallel instance 95 of Section 50 of the Arbitration Act providing for an appeal, and Section 13(1) of the Commercial Courts Act providing the forum
 for such appeal. Only, in the present case, as no appeal lies
 under Section 50 of the Arbitration Act, no forum can be
 provided for.”
 * * *
 “25. What is important to note is that it is Section 50 that
 provides for an appeal, and not the letters patent, given the
 subject-matter of appeal. Also, the appeal has to be adjudicated
 within the parameters of Section 50 alone. Concomitantly,
 where Section 50 excludes an appeal, no such appeal will lie.”

This judgment is, therefore, an authority for the proposition that the Arbitration Act is a self-contained code on matters pertaining to arbitration,

which is exhaustive in nature. The appeal provision in that case (Section 50) was held to carry a negative import that only such matters as are

mentioned in the Section are permissible, and matters not mentioned

therein cannot be brought in. It was further held that what follows from this

is that the substantive provision of appeal is contained in Section 50 of the

Act, which alone must be read, Section 13(1) of the Commercial Courts

Act, 2015 being a general provision, which must give way to the specific

provision contained in Section 50. 71. Likewise, in Deep Industries Ltd. v. ONGC, (2020) 15 SCC 706, this

Court opined: Varindera Constructions Ltd. (2020) 2 SCC 111 : (2020) 1 SCC
 (Civ) 277, dated 17-9-2018, disposing of SLP (C) No. 23155 of
 2013, this Court has imposed the selfsame limitation on first
 appeals under Section 37 so that there be a timely resolution of
 all matters which are covered by arbitration awards. 16. Most significant of all is the non obstante clause contained
 in Section 5 which states that notwithstanding anything
 contained in any other law, in matters that arise under Part I of
 the Arbitration Act , no judicial authority shall intervene except
 where so provided in this Part. Section 37 grants a constricted
 right of first appeal against certain judgments and orders and
 no others. Further, the statutory mandate also provides for one
 bite at the cherry, and interdicts a second appeal being filed
 [see Section 37(2) of the Act].” 72. In BGS SGS SOMA JV v. NHPC , (2020) 4 SCC 234, this time, the

Court dealt with the maintainability of an appeal under Section 37 of the Act

in a case in which an application under Section 34 of the Act was ordered

to be transferred from a court which had no jurisdiction to a court which had

jurisdiction. In deciding this question, this Court referred copiously to Kandla Export (supra) in paragraph 12. It then went on to decide: 14. Interestingly, under the proviso to Section 13 (1- A) of the
Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , Order 43 CPC is also mentioned.
Order 43 Rule 1(a) reads as follows: 73. At this juncture, it is important to notice that Section 37 did not remain

untouched by the 2015 Amendment Act. As a matter of fact, a new category

of appeals was infused into the said provision by adding a new sub-section

(1)(a), which reads as follows: 74. Despite Section 17 being amended by the same Amendment Act, by

making Section 17(1) the mirror image of Section 9(1) as to the interim

measures that can be made, and by adding Section 17(2) as a

consequence thereof, significantly, no change was made in Section 37(2) (b) to bring it in line with Order XLIII, Rule 1(r). The said Section continued

to provide appeals only from an order granting or refusing to grant any

interim measure under Section 17 . There can be no doubt that granting or

refusing to grant any interim measure under Section 17 would only refer to 99 the grant or non-grant of interim measures under Section 17(1)(i) and 17(1) (ii). In fact, the opening words of Section 17(2) , namely, “subject to any

orders passed in appeal under Section 37 …” also demonstrates the

legislature’s understanding that orders that are passed in an appeal under Section 37 are relatable only to Section 17(1) . For example, an appeal

against an order refusing an injunction may be allowed, in which case sub-

section (2) of Section 17 then kicks in to enforce the order passed in

appeal. Also, the legislature made no amendment to the granting or

refusing to grant any measure under Section 9 to bring it in line with Order

XLIII, Rule 1(r), under Section 37(1)(b) . What is clear from this is that

enforcement proceedings are not covered by the appeal provision. 75. However, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondents

pressed into service a recent judgment of this Court in Chintels (India)

Ltd. v. Bhayana Builders (P) Ltd. , (2021) 4 SCC 602. The precise

question that arose before this Court was as to when an application

seeking condonation of delay in filing an appeal is dismissed, whether this

would amount to “refusal to set aside an arbitral award” under Section 34 and thus be appealable under Section 37(1)(c) of the Act. In answering this

question, this Court referred to Section 37(1) of the Act and stressed the

fact that an application for setting aside an award must be in accordance 100 with sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 34 – See paragraph 9. The Court

then set out Section 34(3) and opined: 76. The second question posed is thus answered declaring that no

appeal lies under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act against an order of

enforcement of an Emergency Arbitrator’s order made under Section 17(2) of the Act. As a result, all interim orders of this Court stand vacated. The 102 impugned judgments of the Division Bench, dated 8th February, 2021 and

22nd March, 2021, are set aside. The appeals are disposed of accordingly. ………………………………..J.
 (R.F. Nariman)

 ………………………………..J.
 (B.R. Gavai)

New Delhi. August 06, 2021 103