These are appeals for two year by the assessee and one by the

assessee HUF, against the separate orders of Ld. CIT(A)-37, New Delhi, all

dated 26.09.2019, pertaining to Assessment Years 2014-15 and 2015-16

respectively. 2. The issues are common and relate to claim of exempted long term

gain on penny stock transaction as under:- 3. For the sake of reference, we are referring to facts and figures and

orders in ITA No.9560/Del/2019 for Assessment Year 2014-15. The order

of Revenue authorities in the appeals are on similar lines. 4. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is an individual and

derived income other sources. The assessee has also shown Long Term

Capital Gains of Rs. 1,23,34,231/- as exempt income under section

10(38) of the Income Tax Act. During the year under consideration, the

assessee has claimed long term capital gain by way of sale of equity

shares of M/s Jolly Plastics Industries Ltd. (hereafter JPIL), The facts of

the case from the assessment order is as follows:- 5. The assessee has purchased these shares of JPIL on 02.05.2012

@Rs. 10.5/- per share and earned Long Term capital gain of Rs.

1,23,34,231/-. The assessee has earned a phenomenal return in a short

period. The assessing officer received a report from the office of Principal

DIT, Investigation, Kolkata, informing that various BSE listed penny stock

companies have been used for providing bogus long term capital gain and

JPIL, in which transactions were made by the Assessee are two of such

penny stock companies. The investigation conducted by the Department

has also identified this company, JPIL, which have been used by the entry

operators to provide accommodation entries to various persons by

artificially inflating the share price of the company. JPIL is one of those

identified companies, scrips of which have been used to accommodate

bogus LTCG. 6. The AO has emphasised on the following findings to hold these,

transactions as sham transaction as these transaction have failed the test

of surrounding circumstances, human conduct and preponderance of

probability: 7. As a result of investigation carried out, the modus operandi

involved in generating bogus Long Term Capital Gains was unearthed.

Such modus operandi has been discussed in detail in the assessment

order. As per the information available with the AO, the shares of JPIL

were found to be heavily traded through the top brokers whose activities

were being scrutinized by the Investigation Wing. The investigation wing,

Kolkata recorded the statement of such brokers and sub- brokers who

were involved in purchasing of the scrips of JPIL. The assessing officer

has reproduced the relevant parts of the statements of a number of such

brokers to delineate the modus operandi of providing bogus long term

capital gain. After a detailed analysis of the investigation report and the

statement of brokers recorded during the investigation with the materials

available on record in the case of the assessee, and on further

examination of the financials of JP1L, the AO came to the conclusion that

the modus operandi adopted by the assessee follows the pattern

discovered by the Investigation wing during various search and survey

operations wherein the merger method adopted by the operators/brokers

for providing bogus LTCG has been adopted. 8. Further placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court

in CIT versus Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 1TR 540 and Sumati Dayal

Vs. CIT (214 ITR 801) (SC) and various other judicial pronouncements,

A.O. came to the conclusion that the transactions showing LTCG

exempted under section 10(38) of the Act by the assessee are sham 5 ITA No.9560 to 9562/Del/2019 transactions as the surrounding circumstances and the statement of

various share brokers prove. Accordingly AO held that it is a clear-cut

case of bogus long-term capital gain obtained through brokers and the

assessee has used colourable device for avoidance of tax and therefore

treated the Long Term Capital gains as not genuine. 9. Upon assessee's appeal learned CIT(A) held as under:- 10. Ld. CIT(A) further referred to following case laws:- Nagpur Bench) 11. Thereafter the Ld. CIT(A) held as under:- 12. Against the above order, the assessee has filed appeal before

ITAT. 13. We have heard the Ld. DR. None appeared on behalf of the

assessee despite notice. Notices have returned unserved. Hence we

proceed to adjudicate the issue by hearing the Ld. DR and perusing the

record. We find that this is a classic case of bogus penny stock

transaction where unaccounted money is being routed as exempt income.

The fantastic increase in the price of the share is absolutely beyond

human probability. The orders of revenue authorities are very detailed

and do not need any interference in our part. The case laws referred by

Ld. CIT(A) are germance and duly support the case of this being bogus

penny stock transaction which cannot be treated as exempt long term

gain. There is no need of any interference in the order of the Ld. CIT(A).

Accordingly, we do not find any infirmity in the order of authorities below.

Hence, we affirm the same. 14. Our above order applies mutatis mutandis to all the appeals here. 15. In the result, these appeals by the assessee stand dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 14/07/2022.