1. Originally the application was filed in 2013, and the matter was taken up on

 11.12.2013 and it was observed that :- On the next date of hearing the Principal Secretaries, Urban
 Administration Development Department of all the three States shall
 remain present personally, as well as the Member Secretaries of all
 the three Pollution Control Boards alongwith the concerned Zonal
 Officers of the Central Pollution Control Board. The replies and the
 information which have been sought hereinabove shall be filed by
 30.01.2014, positively. The Registrar is directed to send copy of this order to the Chief
 Secretaries of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh & Madhya Pradesh States as
 well as the Member Secretaries, State Pollution Control Boards of
 Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh & Madhya Pradesh States and the Zonal
 Officers of the Central Pollution Control Board in these three States
 for compliance of the above directions." 2. The matter was again take up on 04.02.2014 and the Tribunal after hearing

 the Learned Counsel for the parties observed as follows :- 3. After calling a report from the State of Madhya Pradesh, State of Rajasthan

 & State of Chhattisgarh the matter was taken up again on 08.05.2014 and

 it was observed that - It is further stated that the situation at Bhanpur is
so bad that it is virtually impossible even for the trucks to
enter the same and often the material is being unloaded
without being taken to the designated site. It has also
been alleged that as a result of municipal solid waste the
underground water has also become contaminated and
has become unfit for human use and consumption. This Tribunal after having issued notices, enlarged
the scope of the application to get the response from the
State of Madhya Pradesh with regard to selection of such
landfill sites in the entire State of Madhya Pradesh as well
as from the two other States of Rajasthan and
Chhattisgarh falling within the jurisdiction of this Tribunal
at the Central Zone Bench at Bhopal. The notices were
issued to the States of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and
Madhya Pradesh as it was felt that despite the MSW Rules
having been brought into force by the publication in the
official gazette in October, 2000 with the stipulated
schedule programme under the provisions of the Rules this
is for their implementation under Schedule-I, there was
very little knowledge and awareness of the MSW Rules
even with the authorities who were required to comply
with the same and ensure their implementation. In response to the notices issued, officers from all
the three States have appeared and information with
regard to the implementation of the Rules in their 9 respective states, has been furnished by all the three
States. Under the MSW Rules more particularly under
Rules (4), (5) & (6), it is the responsibility of every
municipality to ensure the implementation of the provisions
of these Rules and take up infrastructure development as
well as making provision for collection, storage,
segregation, transportation, processing and disposal of
municipal solid waste. The aforesaid task mentioned in Rule (4) has to be
done and carried out by making a formal application for
operation of a facility for the aforesaid purpose in Form No.
I for getting an authorization for setting up the said waste
processing and disposal facility including landfill sites
from the State Pollution Control Board. The implementation
is required to be carried out in accordance with the
parameters and criteria laid-down in Schedule-II of the
MSW Rules by the Municipalities. The Municipal Authorities are also required to
comply with Schedule I requirements for the
implementation of MSW Rules which inter alia provided
that waste processing and disposal facilities be set up by
31st December, 2003 or earlier. It was also provided that
existing landfill sites were to be improved and brought in
consonance with the provisions of these Rules by 31st
December, 2001. The information that has been provided by all the
three States shows that in each of the States the position
on ground is far from what is required under the Schedule
I to the MWS Rules though the rules having been brought
in force in the year 2000 and compliance was to have been
achieved by December 2003 but could not be achieved in
any of the three States, though more than ten years have
since elapsed and there appears to be no urgency either
with the State Governments or the Central Government to
ensure their compliance. Though the above task was entrusted to the
Municipal Authorities yet the responsibility of the
Municipalities did not end there and the Municipal
Authorities were required to furnish Annual Reports in
Form No. II appended to the MSW Rules to the Secretary- in-Charge, Department of Urban Development of the State
to the District Magistrate or Deputy Commissioner
concerned as provided under the sub-rule 4 of Rule 4. This
information was required to be furnished in Form No. 2
appended to the Rules. A perusal of Form No. II appended to the MSW Rules
goes to show that each Municipality was required to give
total details regarding quantity of waste generated per
day, the total quantity of waste collected per day and the
total quantity of waste processed including composting
vermiculture pelletization and by any other means.
Likewise, they were also required to furnish the
information regarding quantity of waste disposed by
landfill site, number of landfill sites used, and also with
regard to the facilities available at the landfill sites and
whether weigh bridge facilities are available whether the
area is fenced, whether lighting facilities were provided at
the sites etc.

 A perusal of the MSW Rules requiring the furnishing
of such information to the Secretary to the Government,
Deptt. Of Urban Development / District Collector / Deputy
Commissioner necessarily entailed that it required the said
authority to go through the said information provided in
Form No. II and wherever the Municipalities were found
wanting or non-compliant or lacking the infrastructure the
State Government or the authorities concerned had to
intervene by providing necessary assistant or guidance as
the case may be. However, during the course of hearing, it was found
that unfortunately such information as was required by
sub-rule (4) of Rule 4 to be furnished by concerned
Municipality to the Secretary/District Collector/Deputy
Commissioner was not at all being complied with and the
information was not being furnished in accordance with
the provisions of the Rules in the Form No. II. When such
information was not at all being furnished by the
Municipalities, the issue of the same being dealt with at
the level of the State Government or the District
Administration also did not arise and no effort was made
to call for the above information from all Municipalities.
The aforesaid aspect, therefore, remained in total neglect. It is only because of public spirited persons like the
Applicant that such issues are highlighted and brought
before this Tribunal. The issue with regard to disposal of municipal solid
waste its proper handling in accordance with the Rules is
of utmost concern to every citizen and is a part of the
fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the
Constitution of the right to clear environment as has been
held by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of
Ratlam Municipal Corporation and B.L. Wadhera Vs.
Union of India 1996 SCC (2) 594 to name a few. We,
therefore feel it necessary that all the Municipal
Corporations and Municipalities within the States of
Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, if they
had not submitted Form No. II as required by sub-rule (4)
of MSW Rule 4 shall within 30 days of the communication
of this order by the Principal Secretary, Urban
Development of the respective States to the District
Collector, submit the aforesaid information to the State
Government/Deputy Commissioner. On receipt of the
aforesaid information in Form No. II from the Municipalities
concerned, the concerned authority shall immediately
proceed to deal with the same as required by Rule 5 and
6 of the MSW Rules and ensure compliance of the rules. We also noticed that under Rule 8 of the MSW Rules,
the State Pollution Control Boards were required to
prepare and submit an Annul Report by 15th September of
ever year to the Central Pollution Control Board with
regard to the implementation of these Rules and the
Central Pollution Control Board is required to prepare and
consolidate the Annual Review Report on the management
of municipal solid waste and forward the same to the
Central Government along with its recommendations by
15th of December every year. Whether such reports were
being sent to the Central Pollution Control Board and what
would be the quality of such reports when the information
was totally lacking in the Form No. II to be furnished by
the Municipalities and the Municipalities not even being
aware and not having the resources for complying with the
MSW Rules the sending of these report under Rule 8 by
the State appears to be only a formality. During the course 12 of hearing, it was pointed out that for the effective
implementation and compliance of these Rules, the
Municipalities of the States majority of them being only
small Municipalities, did not have the kind of resources
required for implementation of the provisions of the MSW
Rules which required as provided under Schedule II and III
sufficient funds and resources have to be made available
to the Municipalities to ensure compliance. Some of the
States like Madhya Pradesh submitted that they had
drawn up a plan and sought assistance from the Centre
by submitting proposal to the Finance Commission to the
extent of rupees 3600 crores for the foresaid purpose. This
is just an example to illustrate the amount sought and
required by the States such as Madhya Pradesh which
has 360 Municipalities in the State in the State for effective
implementation of the Rules. It was pointed out that such
resources are not available with the local municipalities
and even with the State Government and assisting the
Municipalities to this extent is not possible by the State
Govt. The position of other States is no different
financially. During the course of hearing, it was also
submitted that most of the Municipalities have hardly any
revenue resources of their own or whatever little source
are available by way of collection of minor taxes are not
even sufficient for payment of salary of staff. In such a
situation, the full implementation of the MSW Rules which
has not yet been achieved, is not a surprise. The Deputy
Director (Hazard Substances Management), MoEF also
submitted that so far as the Ministry of MoEF is concerned
it is only concerned with regard to the taking of the
information furnished by the State Pollution Control
Boards through the Central Pollution Control Board with
regard to the implementation of the Rules and making its
recommendations to the Central Government. However, so
far as any assistance etc. which may be required for the
implementation of the Rules is something for the Ministry
of Urban Development, Govt. of India and Finance Ministry
and the Finance Commission to provide for. Looking to the facts and circumstances which have
been brought on record, some of the points which stand
out are that despite more than 10 years having been 13 elapsed for implementation of the MSW Rules as the
scheduled period/last date of setting up of waste
processing and disposal facilities expired in December,
2003, the MSW Rules have not been implemented in the
States as required by law with the kind of resources
available with them and the helplessness of the States
expressed by them we do not find that the MSW Rules can
be fully implemented if such directions are issued to the
State Government for their implementation. However, from
the replies and the information furnished by the various
States it is clear that efforts are being made now as the
issue has been highlighted through the Applicant by
bringing the matter to the notice of the Tribunal and the
notices having been issued to all the three States that
selection and preparation of landfill sites in the major
Municipalities in the State has been taken up. We find that the present system itself may not be
sufficient to deal with the issue of management and
handling of municipal solid waste as at present it is only
being dealt with on the question of incurring of
expenditure. During the course of hearing, it was also
brought to our notice that various technologies are
available and reference of the same can also be found
under Sl. No. 5 of Schedule II where while requiring
processing of municipal solid waste it was suggested to
the Municipal Authorities to adopt suitable technology to
make use the municipal solid waste and minimise the
burden on the landfill. This is something which is required
to be taken up on an urgent basis by all the concerned
authorities. Moreover, by adopting the technologies
available what is at present an expenditure incurring
problem can be connected to as a resource generating
asset. The Government of India though have been provided
for such measures to be adopted by the Municipal
Authorities, yet it would require much more by way of
assistance in the form of information as well as knowhow
with regard to technology and seek assistance from the
agencies which deal with such technology or who have
developed the same for the said purpose and furnish this
information to the State and take steps to encourage the 14 same. The State Governments shall necessarily seek
necessary assistance from the Government of India or
directly from such agencies by contacting them and take
effective measures for brining to the use of such
technology for processing of municipal solid waste to their
advantage and the benefit of the people rather than
keeping the issue only as an expenditure incurring issue
and making it pollute the environment when not being
treated in the desired manner. While granting the time to the Municipalities to
submit the required information in Form No. II to the
District Administration within 30 days, we also direct the
State Governments to create cells for obtaining necessary
knowhow with regard to the available technology for the
beneficial use for processing the municipal solid waste
and taking advantage of the same. The officer as well as
the counsel from the State of Chhattisgarh pointed out that
in Chhattisgarh they had successfully adopted the PPP
Model for dealing with the problem with regard to
municipal solid waste disposal and the same is working
successfully in some of the municipal areas where it has
been utilised. The need, therefore, is of finding solutions
by the State Government in consultation with the Central
Government and technical experts for developing such
technology and finding solutions which are practical. We also find from the Schedule I to the Rules that
the authorities are also required to "to carry out
identification of landfill sites for use and making sites
ready for operations". This would necessarily entail the
exercise for anticipation of the projected population growth
in each municipal area on a future cut-off date with also
the projected increase of municipal solid waste generated
in such municipal area during such period. The municipal
solid waste should also to be categorised not only into
biodegradable and non-biodegradable categories but also
into solid municipal waste as well as liquefied municipal
waste and orders would also to be issued with regard to
disposal of plastic waste, e-waste as well as hazardous
waste and therefore each shall have to be dealt with
separately as required under the respective rules. The
need therefore is also to create awareness with regard to 15 the handling of such waste and the segregation of the
same at the source of generation i.e. at the household level
or at the other points of its generation. Massive drive
would therefore have to be carried out for creating
awareness and also providing assistance for separate
collection of each type of waste which is generated both at
the domestic level, at commercial sites industrial level and
at institutional levels wherever such waste is generated.
Without creating effective awareness and without ensuring
the participation of the people at large in the aforesaid
task, it would not be possible merely for the authorities to
carry out the implementation of the aforesaid Rules.
Needless to say that for infrastructure and development
finances shall have to be provided. How this can be
achieved is something we would expect from each of the
State Governments and they should to come forward and
submit their proposals in turn to the Central Government.
It is unfortunate that after framing of the rules no effective
monitoring has been carried out. We expect respective
States to carry out the aforesaid task of identifying the
issues based upon the information supplied by the
respective Municipalities and also by conducting
workshops at different levels for finding solutions to the
aforesaid problems. The State Pollution Control Boards
shall also provide necessary assistance to the State
Governments in this behalf and joint ventures of holding
workshops in consultation with the experts in the field
both in private sector or Government or Public Sector, can
also be taken up by the States. An affidavit has been filed by Shri Virender Singh,
Senior Project Officer, Project Evaluation Office, Planning
Commission, Govt. of India. In Para 6, it has been
submitted that role of the Planning Commission is to
recommend policies, strategies and schemes in various
sectors including urban sector in Five Year Plans and in
accordance with such recommendations, it facilitates
programme implementation like JNNURM in consultation
with various Central Ministries and based on availability
of funds as well as absorption capacity of the schemes
and also guided by the outlay for the concerned scheme
allocates annual budget to the Ministries. It has further 16 been submitted that there is no direct involvement with
 regard to the implementation of the programmes and
 schemes by the Planning Commission. In the affidavit it
 has also been stated that urban services pertaining to
 municipal solid waste management are State Subject but
 the Govt. of India launched JNNURM in 2005 with an
 outlay of Rs.66,085 crores with the objective of assisting
 the States to improve delivery of urban services in cities
 and to undertake urban reforms. Learned counsel for the
 Planning Commission submitted that in accordance with
 the schemes and plan submitted by the respective States,
 the Planning Commission on consideration of the same
 and evaluation of the each new scheme makes allocation
 in the plan by way of consolidate outlays. In view of the above, this Tribunal directs the
 counsel to submit information of the aforesaid three States
 whether any allocation from the Planning Commission was
 sought for implementation of the MSW Rules and any
 scheme submitted to the Planning Commission as well as
 amount sought by each State for the same. In case such
 scheme was submitted, the response of the Planning
 Commission on the said amount so desired by each State
 for the implementation of MSW Rules and the amount so
 allocated by the Planning Commission in the consolidated
 amount sanctioned to each State, may be furnished. The
 aforesaid information be filed by the Planning Commission
 in the form of an affidavit and each State shall also file
 their respective affidavits giving the above information
 along with the manner in which and the project for which
 these amounts were utilised." 4. The matter was again taken up on 10.05.2016 and it was observed that - 5. Thereafter the matter was taken up on 04.10.2016 and this Tribunal after

 hearing the parties observed as follows - The impact assessment of the aforesaid scientific
closures methods has also assessed. While taking on record the aforesaid information
provided by the Learned Counsel along with the concerned
officer from the Urban Development Department we Direct
that the State shall provide a performance guarantee for an
amount of Rs. 4.6 crores being one per cent of the
estimated cost for ensuring the work schedule for
completion of the aforesaid task is adhered to in the best
interest of the people of Bhopal. We have further been informed that steps are already
underway and concessionaire to be appointed for the
waste to energy disposal mechanism at the new site at
Adampur for the Bhopal is at final stages. We express the
hope that the aforesaid task shall be taken up by the local
authority as well as the State Government and will be
completed within the timeframe that is envisaged. In the meanwhile, as ordered earlier precautionary
measures regarding precautions to be taken against any
fires, contamination and pollution of ground water
including testing of samples at various points at different
radius from the existing site at Bhanpura takes from the
tube-wells and water resources shall be done regularly by
both the PHE, Ground Water Department and the PCB.
These monthly reports shall be submitted before this
Tribunal by the State as well as the PCB by the 15th of
every month commencing from 15.11.2016 till the site is
closed effectively. The closure mechanism shall also
incorporate the aforesaid condition with regard to the air
monitoring and water monitoring. The Registry shall
apprise the Bench in Chamber about any reports that are
filed. With the aforesaid directions the matter is ordered to
be consigned to record." 6. Again the matter was considered on 17.01.2018 and it was observed - We direct that while filing the next report the PM 2.5 level
 will also be monitored and the action taken based on the above
 recommendations will also be stated in the report. Learned Counsel for the state has submitted that as our
 order dated 04.10.2016 was not uploaded because of which
 they were not aware that they had to file report by every month
 commencing from 15.11.2016 till the site was closed effectively.
 This reason is not acceptable. He has submitted that the first
 report of the State will be filed within next ten days. The
 reasons for higher Coliform level, higher RSPM level and other
 parameter may be studied and effective measures be taken for
 controlling such pollution. The action taken in this regard will
 also be reported while filing report of the State." 7. Action taken report by the Central Pollution Control Board, State of

 Rajasthan, State of Madhya Pradesh and State of Chhattisgarh have been

 submitted which was considered by the Tribunal, reply of the responded has

 also been filed. Compliance report by State of Madhya Pradesh was filed on

 05.02.2020 which is as follows - 8. Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board has submitted inspection report

 with regard to air quality which is as follows - Scientific closure should carefully be completed to give environmentally

 sustainable results. 9. After the enforcement of New Solid Waste Management Rule, 2016 the

 matter was taken up of Principal Bench of this Tribunal in Original

 Application No 606 of 2018 and after taking the report from the State (PAN

 India Level) the Tribunal observed as follows - 10 lakh per month per Local Body for
 population of above 10 lakhs, Rs. 5
 lakh per month per Local Body for
 population between 5 lakhs and 10
 lakhs and Rs. 1 lakh per month per
 other Local Body. If the Local Bodies
 are unable to bear financial burden,
 the liability will be of the State
 Governments with liberty to take
 remedial action against the erring
 Local Bodies. Apart from
 compensation, adverse entries must be
 made in the ACRs of the CEO of the
 said Local Bodies and other senior
 functionaries in Department of Urban
 Development etc. who are responsible
 for compliance of order of this
 Tribunal. Final compensation may be
 assessed and recovered by the State
 PCBs/PCCs in the light of Para 33
 above within six months from today. c. Further, with regard to thematic areas
 listed above in para 20, steps be ensured
 by the Chief Secretaries in terms of
 directions of this Tribunal especially w.r.t. plastic waste, bio-medical waste,
 construction and demolition waste which
 are linked with solid waste treatment and
 disposal. Action may also be ensured by
 the Chief Secretaries of the States/UTs
 with respect to remaining thematic areas
 viz. hazardous waste, e- waste, polluted
 industrial clusters, reuse of treated water,
 performance of CETPs/ETPs, groundwater
 extraction, groundwater recharge, 30 restoration of water bodies, noise pollution
 and illegal sand mining. d. The compensation regime already laid
 down for failure of the Local Bodies
 and/or Department of Irrigation and Public
 Health/In-charge Department to take
 action for treatment of sewage in terms of
 observations in Para 36 above will result
 in liability to pay compensation as already
 noted above which are reproduced for
 ready reference: i. Interim measures for
 phytoremediation/bioremediatin
 etc. in respect of 100% sewage
 to reduce the pollution load on
 recipient water bodies- 31.03.2020. Compensation is
 payable for failure to do so at
 the rate of Rs. 5 lakh per
 month per drain by concerned
 Local Bodies/States (in terms of
 orders dated 28.08.2019 in O.A.
 No. 593/2017 and 06.12.2019
 in O.A. No. 673/2018) w.e.f. 01.04.2020. ii. Commencement of setting up of
 STPs - 31.03.2020. Compensation is payable for
 failure to do so at the rate of
 Rs. 5 lakh per month per STP by
 concerned Local Bodies/States
 (in terms of orders dated
 28.08.2019 in O.A. No.
 593/2017 and 06.12.2019 in
 O.A. No. 673/2018) w.e.f. 01.04.2020. iii. Commissioning of STPs -31.03.2021. Compensation is
 payable for failure to do so at
 the rate of Rs. 10 lakh per
 month per STP by concerned
 Local Bodies/States (in terms of
 orders dated 28.08.2019 in
 O.A. No. 593/2017 and
 06.12.2019 in O.A. No.
 673/2018) w.e.f. 01.04.2021. e. Compensation in above terms may be
 deposited with the CPC B for being spent on
 restoration of environment which may be
 ensured by the Chief Secretaries‟ of the
 States/UTs. f. An „Environment Monitoring Cell‟ may be set
 up in the office of Chief Secretaries of all the
 States/UTs within one month from today, if
 not already done for coordination and 31 compliance of above directions which will be
 the responsibility of the Chief Secretaries of
 the States/UTs. g. Compliance reports in respect of significant
 environmental issues may be furnished in
 terms of order dated 07.01.2020 quarterly
 with a copy to CPC B." 10. In terms of order dated 18.10.2019, the Tribunal requested Niti Ayog to

 standardize technologies and costs. Operative part of the said order is as

 follows: 11. The Tribunal, vide order dated 02.07.2020, noted the report of

 Niti Ayog dated 25.06.2020 as follows: "xxx xxx xxx
 The Committee held three meetings: on 19.11.2019, 20.11.2019 and
 17.03.2020. Pursuant to the decisions taken during these
 meetings, NITI Aayog has formulated the Model Concession
 Agreements (MCAs) and Model Request for Proposals documents
 (RFPs) for Integrated Solid Waste Management (including Bio-
 Remediation of Legacy Waste) and Integrated Liquid Waste
 Management (including Faecal Sludge Management) on Hybrid
 Annuity Model (HAM) of Public-Private Partnership (PPP). MoHUA has provided Engineering Procurement Construction (EPC)
 Contract for Legacy Waste Dumpsite Remediation and several
 other documents relating to legacy waste dumpsite remediation
 and integrated solid waste management activities such as
 collection, transportation, processing and disposal of municipal
 solid waste. NMCG has also provided documents for setting up of sewage
 treatment plants and other guiding documents for improved
 liquid waste management in the country. Now the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) have the following options for
solid waste management and liquid waste management under
PPP: Remediation of Legacy Waste may accordingly be
 removed by the ULB and remaining agreement may be
 taken up. For Liquid Waste Management: As per paragraph 5 of the NGT Order, the Tribunal
 was of the opinion that placing these documents on
 the GeM Portal would go a long way in tackling
 the situation by curtailing procedural delay.
 In accordance with the requirement of the NGT
 Order, all the relevant documents were shared
 with the CEO, GeM Portal on 11.06.2020 to
 initiate the process of uploading of the
 documents. I am sharing the documents with you for the kind
 information and reference of the Hon'ble Tribunal. The following documents are attached herewith: 18.10.2019 in O.A. No. 606/2018 (Main) on
 Compliance of Municipal Solid Waste Management
 Rules, 2016 and other environmental issues. (B) Solid Waste Management (SWM)

 i. Model Concession Agreement including
 Schedules (prepared by NITI Aayog)
 ii. Model RFP for Solid Waste Management
 (prepared by NITI Aayog)
 iii. EPC Contract for Legacy Waste Dumpsite
 Remediation
 iv. DPR preparation Toolkit for Dumpsite
 remediation
 v. EPC Contractors & O&M Vendors
 for dumpsite remediation
 vi. Equipment & Suppliers for dumpsite
 remediation
 vii. Template for management of Dumpsites
 viii. Toolkit for DPRs preparation
 ix. List of SWM Empanelled Agencies
 x. Empanelled Institutes SWM
 xi. Empanelled Transaction Advisers - SWM
 xii. Checklist for scrutiny of DPR for SWM
 projects
 xiii. Checklist for scrutiny of PPR or
 PHI for SWM projects

(C) Liquid Waste Management (LWM) (i) Model Concession Agreement (prepared by
 NITI Aayog) (ii) Schedules to Model Concession Agreement
 (15 Schedules) (prepared by NITI Aayog) (iii) Model RFP for Liquid Waste Management
 (prepared by NITI Aayog) (iv) DPR Guidelines - LWM (v) Empanelled Institutes for evaluation
 of DPRs - LWM (vi) List of Transaction Advisers & Project
 Engineers - LWM (vii) Model Bidding Documents for NMCG
 projects - STP

(D) Letter addressed to the CEO, GeM Portal through which
 the above- mentioned documents were shared with GeM,
 requesting them to initiate the process of uploading. The documents listed above have been approved
 by the competent authority at NITI Aayog. This
 submission is in compliance and fulfillment of the
 directions given by the Hon‟ble National Green 34 Tribunal to NITI Aayog in its Order dated 18.10.2019
 in O.A. No. 606/2018 (Main)." 12. Learned counsel appearing for the State of Rajasthan, State of Madhya Pradesh

 and State of Chhattisgarh have submitted that the matter of the New Solid Waste

 Management Rule, 2016, the Bio-Medical Waste Management, Rule 2016, the

 Liquid Waste Management, the Hazardous Waste Management Rules, 2016 are

 being taken by the Principal Bench of New Delhi in Original Application No 606 of

 2018 and the report with compliance are regularly submitted and considered by

 the Principal Bench in that Application. 13. Learned Counsel appearing for the Municipal Corporation, Bhopal has also

 submitted that in Swatchta Abhiyan, the State of Madhya Pradesh prestigious city

 Bhopal and Indore were given the prize and found placed at top of the list. 14. The next question which has been raised in this application is extraction of ground

 water and contamination of ground water. 4. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court directed: The Central Government shall confer on the
 Authority the power to give directions under Section 5 of the Act and also powers to take
 such measures or pass any orders in respect
 of all the matters referred to in sub-section
 (2) of Section 3 of the Act. 10. We make it clear that the Board having
 been constituted an Authority under Section
 3(3) of the Act, it can resort to the penal
 provisions contained in Sections 15 to 21 of
 the Act. 12. The main object for the constitution of
 the Board as an Authority is the urgent need
 for regulating the indiscriminate boring and
 withdrawal of underground water in the
 country. We have no doubt that the Authority
 so constituted shall apply its mind to this
 urgent aspect of the matter and shall issue
 necessary regulatory directions with a view
 to preserve and protect the underground
 water. This aspect may be taken up by the
 Authority on an urgent basis." 13. The Tribunal noted the relevant statistics on the
subject as follows: "14. The Tribunal accordingly held: 16. Accordingly, affidavit filed by the MoEF&CC on
 18.07.2019 and report of the CPC B dated 26.06.2019
 have been put up for consideration today. We take up
 the said reports for consideration. 17. The report dated 18.07.2019 gives statistics as follows:- 18. Apart from giving the above statistics the
report deals with the review of institutional
framework, gaps in groundwater management
strategy and makes recommendations providing for
levy of water conservation fee, criteria for extraction
of groundwater in OCS area, registration of bore-
wells, utilization of treated sewage water, shifting of
cropping pattern and irrigation practices, optimal use
of fresh water and best conservation practices. It is
suggested that guidelines be prepared applicable
pan India with liberty to lay down more stringent 43 norms by the States depending on local conditions,
making water resource estimation every two years,
periodic assessment of OCS areas, inviting projects
from experts for water management and preparation
of decadal action plans. 19. The report remains deficient as the issue of
preventing depletion of ground water has not been
duly addressed. The effective enforcement
mechanism of conditions subject to which
groundwater extraction may be allowed in OCS
areas has not been provided. Mere condition of
recharge without clear strategy of enforcement is no
safeguard for permitting extraction of groundwater.
The report leaves many issues to be dealt with by
further studies. The need for immediate concrete
action to prevent further depletion is not met by the
report nor the effective safeguards against abuse of
permission for extraction in violation of conditions for
extraction and effective remedies against rampant
illegal extractions have been suggested. This shows
that further remedial action needs to be taken. 20. The report of CPC B dated 26.06.2019
 deals with methodology for assessing
 environmental compensation (EC), Formula for
 Environmental Compensation for illegal extraction
 of ground water, Environmental Compensation
 Rate (ECRGw) which has been further dealt with
 in different categories, i.e. ECRGw for Drinking &
 Domestic use for household purposes and those
 for institutional activity, commercial complexes,
 townships etc., ECRGw for Packaged Drinking
 Water Units, ECRGw for Mining, Infrastructure
 and Dewatering Projects, ECRGw for Industrial
 Units, Deterrent factors to compensate losses and
 environmental damage (for packaging drinking
 water units, mining, industrial and commercial
 purposes) and Deterrent Factor . Formula for
 Environmental Compensation for illegal extraction
 of ground water is as follows: 21. 5. Formula for Environmental
 Compensation for illegal extraction of ground 44 water

 The committee recommended that the formula
 considering water consumption, no of days,
 rates for imposing Environmental
 Compensation based on the purpose for

 ECGw= Water consumption per day x
 Environmental Compensation rate for illegal
 extraction of ground water (ECRGw) x No. of Days x
 Deterrent Factor

 illegal abstraction of ground water as well as
 the deterrent factor detailed below:- (emphasis supplied)"