(Pronounced on the 9th day of August 2024)

FACTS:- 2. The inquest proceedings were carried out and the statements
of the parents of the deceased were recorded before the Executive
Magistrate/Assistant Collector- II, Karawal Nagar, Nand Nagri,
Delhi. 3. In the statement recorded before the Executive Magistrate on
06.06.2018, the father of the deceased had stated that his
daughter Deepika got married to accused Dharmesh @ Dhruv on
11.07.2016 as per hindu rites and ceremonies. He further stated
that the deceased was his second eldest child. The deceased was
an intelligent girl and she was a matriculate. The married life of
the deceased was marred with lot of problems. Eversince, his
daughter got married to accused Dharmesh @ Dhruv, her
husband and in laws used to harrass her. The in laws of his
deceased daughter used to demand money from him and in the
month of February 2018, upon the demands raised by the accused
persons, he had given Rs. 4 lacs to them. He further stated that
his daughter used to always tell him that the accused persons
were troubling her. 4. The father of the deceased further stated before the Executive
Magistrate that on 06.06.2018, he received a phone call from
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 5. On 06.06.2018 itself, the Executive Magistrate had also
recorded the statement of the mother of the deceased and she had
also given a similar statement, as given by her husband. 6. The Executive Magistrate then forwarded the statements of
the father and mother of the deceased to IO SI Amit Kumar for
taking action as per law. Upon the statement of the father of the
deceased, the present case FIR u/s 498A / 304-B / 34 IPC, 1860 was
registered at PS Karawal Nagar on 06.06.2018. 7. After the registration of the FIR, the investigation was
conducted by the IO and after completion of the same the
chargesheet was filed before the court of Ld. MM. After
compliance of section 207 / 208 Cr.PC, the case was committed by
the Court of Ld. MM before this court on 03.02.2019. Thereafter,
the charges were framed by my Ld. Predecessor on 14.10.2019
U/s 498-A/304-B/34 of Indian Penal Code , 1860 against the
accused persons. The accused persons pleaded not guilty and
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 8. To prove its case, the prosecution has examined Ten (10)
witnesses: (8.2.1) PW-2 further deposed that there was a reddish abrasion
dry hard parchmentized ligature mark present incompletely and
obliquely above the thyroid cartilage in front of neck. Med line
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (8.2.2) PW-2 further deposed that the ligature material was a
safron colour sari with brown prints with a fixed knot on the left
side of the neck. Ligature was cut opposite to the knot tied with a
black thread, sealed and handed over to the Investigating Officer.
Dimension of the ligature material was mentioned in the
postmortem report. (8.2.3) PW-2 further deposed that on internal examination, there
was extravasation of blood was present in the soft tissues and the
muscles of the neck. Epiglottis was congested. Bruising of
bilateral carotid sheath was present. All organs were congested
and petechial hemorrhage were present in the inter lobar surface
of lungs and over the anterior surface of heart.
The following opinion was given: (8.3.1) PW-3 further deposed that on 06.06.2018 at about 8.00
AM, when he was present at his house, accused Raj Kumar
Sharma had telephonically informed him that, his daughter
Deepika had expired. On receiving the said information, he
alongwith his other family members, relatives and neighbors
reached Delhi at around 12.00 PM. At that time, the police
officials were already present there and PW-3 came to know that
his daughter Deepika has committed suicide by hanging herself
from the ceiling fan. He further deposed that after sometime
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (8.4.1) PW-4 further deposed that on 06.06.2018 at about 8.00
AM, when she was present at her house, accused Raj Kumar
Sharma had telephonically informed her husband that, her
daughter Deepika had expired. On receiving the said information,
she alongwith her other family members, relatives and neighbors
reached Delhi at around 12.00 PM. At that time, the police
officials were already present there and PW-4 came to know that
her daughter Deepika has committed suicide by hanging herself
from the ceiling fan. She further deposed that after sometime
police called the SDM Sh. R.L Meena. Upon his arrival, he made
certain inquiries from PW-4 and obtained her signatures on
written papers. She categorically deposed that she did not know
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Accordingly, he went to the PS and handed over the tehrir to the
DO for recording the present case FIR registered. Thereafter,
Inspector K.B Jha also arrived at the spot and he came there and
handed over the tehrir to Inspector K.B Jha. (8.6.1) PW6 further deposed that two screws and one kundi were
lying on the floor and the same were lifted from the spot and Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (8.10.1) PW-10 further deposed that they searched the room for
the suicide note, however, no such note was found and upon the
body of the deceased there were no visible injuries to be seen. He
further deposed that he called the crime team and the ilaka SDM
to come to the spot for conducting the inquest proceedings. He
also informed the parents of the deceased and they were also
called on the spot. Thereafter, the ilaka SDM/Executive
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 9. After completion of prosecution evidence, PE was closed. The
statements of the accused persons were recorded under Section
313 Cr.P.C., in which they had pleaded innocence. CNR No. DLNE01-0003445-2019 State Vs. Dharmesh @ Dhruv & Ors. FIR No. 259/2018 Page no. 19/65 10. The accused persons chose not to lead any Defense
Evidence. 11. I have heard the arguments advanced by Sh. Kamal Akhter,
Ld. Additional PP for the State and Sh. Sanjeev Bhardwaj, Ld.
Counsel for the accused persons and have minutely gone through
the evidence brought on record and the other material aspects of
the case. 12. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that in
the present case the prosecution has been able to discharge its
burden that the death of deceased Deepika was caused otherwise
than under normal circumstances and such death had occurred
within 7 years of her marriage with accused Dharmesh @ Dhruv.
Furthermore, it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt from
the testimony of the prosecution witnesses that soon before her
death, deceased Deepika was subjected to cruelty and harassment
by her husband and other relatives of the husband. Furthermore,
the prosecution has also discharged the burden that such cruelty
and harassment was meted out to the deceased in connection with
the demand of dowry. Therefore, all the essential ingredients of section 304-B IPC, 1860 has been fully satisfied in the present
case. 13. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
presumption enshrined u/s 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act,
1872, is a presumption of law and ones the prosecution was able
to establish in the facts of the present case. The essential Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 14. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that prior the
deceased Deepika hanging herself by tying a saree around her
neck and by tying other end of the saree on the ceiling fan of her
room she was subjected to harassment due to dowry demands.
The prosecution has also been able to prove that the offence was
committed in the dwelling house, where the accused persons also
resided and in the present case, in spite of the prosecution
witnesses turning hostile, the burden of proof upon the
prosecution was lighter, keeping in mind section 106 of the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872, since the circumstances around the
death of the deceased was especially within the knowledge of the
accused persons, therefore, the burden of proving that fact rested
on them, which they have miserably failed to discharge in the
present case. 15. It is further submitted by the Ld. Addl. PP for the state that
the identity of the accused persons were fully established in the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 16. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
that the initial burden of proof lied on the prosecution and the
burden would not shift on the accused persons, merely on the fact
that unnatural death had occurred within 7 years of the marriage,
without the prosecution proving through cogent and reliable
evidence that there was a demand of dowry prior to the incident. 17. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
that the prosecution had cited as many as five public witnesses,
namely PW-3 Subhash Chand Sharma (father of the deceased),
PW-4 Sarvesh Devi (mother of the deceased), PW-7 Amit Kumar
Sharma (mediator of the marriage), PW-8 Parveen Kumar
Sharma (the cousin brother of accused Raj Kumar Sharma) and
PW-9 Shabra (tenant of the accused persons). At the time of their
deposition, all five of them did not support the case of the
prosecution. In spite of detailed cross examination conducted by
the Ld. Addl. PP for the State, since they had resiled from their
earlier statements, nothing material came out of there testimonies
to support the case of the prosecution. 18. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
that it has categorically come in the testimony of PW-3 Subhash
Chand Sharma, PW-4 Sarvesh Devi, PW-7 Amit Kumar Sharma,
PW-8 Parveen Kumar Sharma and PW-9 Shabra that the
deceased Deepika was suffering from depression and that she Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 19. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
that even the testimony of the IO PW-10 Inspector K.B Jha that
during the investigation it was revealed that the deceased
Deepika was a patient of depression and she was receiving
treatment for the same. Even after, the said fact came in the
knowledge of the IO, he did not properly investigate the present
case and purposely chose not to file the treatment papers along-
with the charge-sheet. 20. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
that the essential ingredients of the offences punishable u/s 498 A and 304 B IPC, 1860 are not satisfied in the present case, since
none of the prosecution witnesses deposed that the deceased
Deepika was subjected to cruelty prior to her death at the hands
of the accused persons. Furthermore, it has not come in the
testimony of the parents of the deceased Deepika, namely PW-3
Subhash Chand Sharma and PW-4 Sarvesh Devi that there was
any dowry demands raised by the accused persons or that they
paid any dowry. Both the said witnesses categorically deposed
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 21. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused persons
that it has come in the testimony of PW-3 Subhash Chand
Sharma and PW-4 Sarvesh Devi that the SDM had made
inquiries from them and obtained their signatures on written
paper. However, both of them have categorically deposed that
they do not know as to what was written on the said paper.
Furthermore, it has come in the testimony of PW-5 R.L Meena
(Executive Magistrate), who had purportedly recorded the
statements of the PW-3 Subhash Chand Sharma and PW-4
Sarvesh Devi, vide statements Ex. PW3/A and Ex. PW4/A that
none of the statements were filled in his own handwriting. He
had sought to explain the same by stating that the statements Ex.
PW3/A and Ex. PW4/A were recorded by his clerk on his
dictation and the columns of the inquest papers as well as
handing over dead body were filled by IO SI Amit Kumar upon
his dictation. It is further submitted by Ld. Defense counsel that
the their perusal of the said documents Ex. PW3/A, Ex. PW4/A,
Ex. PW5/A (request for postmortem), Ex. PW5/B (Form-25.35).
Ex. PW3/B (dead body identification statement of the father of
the deceased) and Ex. PW5/C (dead body identification statement
of Gopal Sharma), does not reflect any undertaking or mention of Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 22. In rebuttal it has been vehemently argued by Ld. Addl. PP
for the State that the present case is a classic example wherein,
the prosecution witnesses have turned hostile and could not
muster the courage to go the whole way in the long and painful
life cycle of a criminal trial. 23. Before coming to the discussion of the evidence adduced by
the prosecution on merits, this court deems it necessary to discuss
the law and the judgments passed by the superior courts in this
regard. 24. In order to succeed in charge under Section 498A of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860 the prosecution is required to prove that
the accused had subjected the deceased to cruelty, as defined in
the explanation to the section. For this purpose, the provision of Sec. 498A IPC, 1860 is reproduce as under:- 25. It is clear from a bare reading of the said provision in
conjunction with the 'Explanation' appended to the said section,
that it is not every cruelty which is punishable under Section 498-
A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The cruelty, so as to attract
penal provisions, contained in Section 498A of Indian Penal
Code, 1860, has necessarily to be a willful conduct, which is of
such a nature that it is likely to drive a woman to commit suicide
or cause grievous injury or danger to her life or health. The use of
the expression "willful" in the explanation to Section 498A of
Indian Penal Code, 1860, indicates that the conduct attributed to
the accused, in order to be culpable, needs to be deliberate, aimed Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 26. It is easily believed that everyone is presumed to intend the
natural consequences of his act and such a presumption must
necessarily be drawn even if there is no intention to cause any
injury or harm to the woman. Whether the conduct in question is
likely to drive the woman to cause injury to her life, limb or
health, will depend upon a number of factors such as social and
economic status of the parties, the level of awareness of the
aggrieved woman, her temperament, state of her health, physical
as well as mental and how she is likely to perceive such a
behavior. If a woman is harassed with a view to coerce her or any
of her relatives to meet any unlawful demand for any property or
valuable security, it will also constitute cruelty, as defined in the
explanation to Section 498A of Indian Penal Code. 27. The expression "Cruelty" takes in its ambit mental cruelty as
well as physical torture of the woman. If the conduct of the
accused with a woman is likely to cause a reasonable
apprehension in her mind that her living with the husband will be
harmful and injurious to her life and safety, such a conduct would
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 28. If the woman has been harassed on account of her failure or
the failure of her relatives to meet an unlawful demand for
property or valuable security, that also constitutes cruelty, within
the meaning of Section 498A of IPC. The expression
"harassment" has not been defined in Section 498A of IPC, but
its dictionary meaning is 'to subject someone to continuous
vexatious attacks, questions, demands or other unpleasantness,
etc'. However, it is not harassment of every nature which is
punishable under Section 498A of IPC. In order to attract
criminal liability, there should be torture physical or mental, by
positive acts. Such acts should be aimed at persuading or
compelling the woman or her relatives to meet an unlawful
demand of any property or valuable security or it should be
actuated by the failure of the woman or her relative to meet such
a demand 29. It is also pertinent to reproduce the provision u/s 304B IPC,
as under:- 30. It is clear from the said provision that in order to establish a
charge under Section 304B of Indian Penal Code, which deals
with what is described as "dowry death", the prosecution must
necessarily prove the following ingredients: 31. The term "Dowry" has not been defined in Section 304B of
IPC, but, since this expression has been defined in Section 2 of ATUL
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 32. Dowry would include property or valuable security which is
actually given or which is agreed to be given, in relation to the
marriage of a person in question. The property or valuable
security may be given or may be agreed to be given before
marriage or at the time of marriage or at any time after the
marriage, so long as it is connected with the marriage. However,
there has to be a link between the property given or agreed to be
given and the marriage. If at any time before or at the time of or
even during marriage, the parents of a woman or any other
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 33. Even demands of articles such as T.V., fridge, jewellery,
clothes, furniture, etc. which usually are given or expected in
marriages in our country, would, considering the objective sought
to be achieved by incorporating Section 304B in IPC , 1860 and
enacting Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 , fall within the purview of Section 304B of IPC, 1860 . CNR No. DLNE01-0003445-2019 State Vs. Dharmesh @ Dhruv & Ors. FIR No. 259/2018 Page no. 31/65 34. In the case of " Pawan Kumar & Ors. v. State of Haryana ",
AIR 1998 SCC 958, the Apex Court has specifically held that
demand of T.V., Fridge, etc. though not agreed to be given or
promised or even demanded prior to or at the time of marriage, to
be a demand for dowry for the purpose of Section 304B of Indian
Penal Code. If cash or some property, etc. is demanded by the
boy or his family members, after marriage, saying that they were
expecting such cash, property, etc. to be given in marriage, and
the girl, or her parents or any other person related or connected to
her promise to fulfill such a demand, that also may fall within the
purview of dowry, as the promise though made after marriage,
would nevertheless be referable to the marriage, having been
made with a view to preserve the marriage. In case, if the
demand is made after marriage and it is in respect of a property
or valuable security, which was not demanded, was not expected
to be given and also was not in contemplation at any time up to
solemnization of marriage, demand of such cash, property or
valuable security, etc. cannot be said to be in connection with the
marriage and, therefore, would not constitute demand of dowry. 35. In the case of " Satbir Singh Vs. State of Punjab ", 200 14
Crimes 45 (SC) while dealing with this issue, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court, inter alia, observed as under: 36. In the case of " Appasaheb and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra " ,
AIR 2007 SC 763, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as
under: 37. The Indian Penal Code , 1860, and the Dowry Prohibition Act,
1961 , are both remedial and penal statutes. As such, Courts are
expected to construe the provisions in a way that the purpose is
fulfilled through and within the limits of language employed in
the statute. If a case is established then the Courts are to be
stringent in dealing with the culprits. The Courts while taking a
stringent view and despite the obligation of the legislative
enactment a success, have also to keep in mind that the charge
should be made out. 38. The main ingredients to be proved for establishing a case
under Section 304B of Indian Penal Code, 1860, are (i) unnatural
death of a woman within seven years of her marriage and (ii) she
being subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any
relative of her husband, in connection with any demand of dowry. 39. The words "it is shown" occurring in Section 304B IPC,
1860, are of significance for the reason that the initial burden of
proving the circumstances envisaged by Section 304B IPC, 1860,
do exist on the prosecution. This being shown or established, the
question of presumption under Section 113B of the Evidence Act
would arise. In other words, to draw a presumption under section
113B of the Evidence Act, the necessary ingredient that need to
be shown is that soon before the death of the girl, she was
subjected to cruelty or harassment in connection with the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 40. The Courts are required to scrutinize the evidence carefully
because cases are not rare in which occasionally there is a
demand and then the atmosphere becomes calm and quiet and
then again there is demand. Where a wife dies in the house of her
husband within a short span of seven years of her marriage, it is
of considerable difficulty to assess the precise circumstances in
which the incident occurred because ordinarily independent
witnesses are not available as the torture and harassment is
confined to the four walls of the house. The Courts are, however,
required to be vigilant to scrutinize the evidence regarding the
harassment and torture carefully if the witnesses are the relatives
of the deceased and relations between them and her in laws are
strained for any reason whatever it might be. 41. Urge for living is a natural phenomenon in mankind. A
person would not embrace death unless there is some
psychological problem or mental agony or such circumstances
that the person committing suicide may think that life he or she is
living is more miserable than the pangs and agony of death. The
power of tolerance would vary from person to person. Some Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 42. The importance of Proximity Test is both for the proof of an
offence of 'dowry death' as well as for raising a presumption
under Section 113B of the Evidence Act. The expression "soon
before her death" used in the substantive section 304B IPC and Section 113B Evidence Act is impregnated with the idea of
proximity test. No definite period has been indicated with respect
to the expression "soon before" used in Section 113B of the
Evidence Act, however, Illustration (a) of the Act is relevant. The
determination of the period which can come within the term
"soon before" is left to be determined by the Courts, depending
upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Suffice, however,
to indicate that the expression "soon before" would normally
imply that the interval should not be too much between the
concerned cruelty or harassment and the death in question. There
must be existence of a proximate and live link between the effect
of cruelty based on dowry demand and the concerned death. If
the alleged incident of cruelty is remote in time and has become
stale enough not to disturb mental equilibrium of the woman
concerned, it would be of no consequence. It is well settled by
several judgments that mere suspicion cannot be a substitute for
proof of guilt. In the case reported as " State of Punjab v. Bhajan
Singh and Ors. " AIR 1975 SC 258, it was observed by Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India as under: 43. Further more, in another case reported as " Mousam Singha
Roy & Ors. v. State of West Bengal " , 2003 (3) JCC 1358 , it was
observed by Hon'ble Supreme Court as under: 44. Further more, in another case reported as " Sher Singh @
Partapa v. State Of Haryana ," 2015 (3) SCC 724, it was observed
by Hon'ble Supreme Court as under: 45. The Court analyzed the provision of Sec. 304B IPC
considering it as a deeming provision and observed that the word
'shown' in Sec. 304B IPC would connote 'prove'. It further
observed as under:- 46. In the background of the above, I shall now discuss the
evidence brought on record in the present case. It is trite law that
the accused persons can be convicted on the basis of credible Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 47. Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act defines "evidence".
The evidence can be broadly divided into oral and documentary. 48. The definition of the word "proved" though gives an
impression of a mere interpretation, in effect, is the heart and
soul of the entire Act. This clause, consciously speaks of proving
a fact by considering the "matters before it". The importance is Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 49. Matters are necessary, concomitant material factors to prove
a fact. All "evidence" would be "matters" but not vice versa. In
other words, matters could be termed as a genus of which
evidence would be a species. Matters also adds strength to the
evidence giving adequate ammunition in the Court's sojourn in
deciphering the truth. Thus, the definition of "matters" is
exhaustive, and therefore, much wider than that of "evidence".
However, there is a caveat, as the court is not supposed to
consider a matter which acquires the form of an evidence when it
is barred in law. Matters are required for a court to believe in the
existence of a fact. 50. Matters, do give more discretion and flexibility to the court
in deciding the existence of a fact. They also include all the
classification of evidence such as circumstantial evidence,
corroborative evidence, derivative evidence, direct evidence,
documentary evidence, hearsay evidence, indirect evidence, oral
evidence, original evidence, presumptive evidence, primary
evidence, real evidence, secondary evidence, substantive
evidence, testimonial evidence, etc. 51. In addition, they supplement the evidence in proving the
existence of a fact by enhancing the degree of probability. As an
exhaustive interpretation has to be given to the word "matter",
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 52. What is important for the court is the conclusion on the
basis of existence of a fact by analyzing the matters before it on
the degree of probability. The entire enactment is meant to
facilitate the court to come to an appropriate conclusion in
proving a fact. There are two methods by which the court is
expected to come to such a decision. The court can come to a
conclusion on the existence of a fact by merely considering the
matters before it, in forming an opinion that it does exist. This
belief of the court is based upon the assessment of the matters
before it. Alternatively, the court can consider the said existence
as probable from the perspective of a prudent man who might act
on the supposition that it exists. The question as to the choice of
the options is best left to the court to decide. The said decision
might impinge upon the quality of the matters before it. 53. The word "prudent" has not been defined under the Act.
When the court wants to consider the second part of the
definition clause instead of believing the existence of a fact by
itself, it is expected to take the role of a prudent man. Such a
prudent man has to be understood from the point of view of a
common man. Therefore, a judge has to transform into a prudent
man and assess the existence of a fact after considering the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 54. The aforesaid provision also indicates that the court is
concerned with the existence of a fact both in issue and relevant,
as against a whole testimony. Thus, the concentration is on the
proof of a fact for which a witness is required. Therefore, a court
can appreciate and accept the testimony of a witness on a
particular issue while rejecting it on others since it focuses on an
issue of fact to be proved. However, the evidence of a witness as
whole is a matter for the court to decide on the probability of
proving a fact which is inclusive of the credibility of the witness.
Whether an issue is concluded or not is also a court's domain. 55. While appreciating the evidence as aforesaid along with the
matters attached to it, evidence can be divided into three
categories broadly namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) wholly
unreliable and (iii) neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable.
If evidence, along with matters surrounding it, makes the court
believe it is wholly reliable qua an issue, it can decide its
existence on a degree of probability. Similar is the case where
evidence is not believable. When evidence produced is neither
wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable, it might require
corroboration, and in such a case, court can also take note of the
contradictions available in other matters. The aforesaid principle
of law has been enunciated in the authority of Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India in " Vadivelu Thevar v. State of Madras ", 1957
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: In the first category of proof, the court
 should have no difficulty in coming to its
 conclusion either way -- it may convict or
 may acquit on the testimony of a single
 witness, if it is found to be above reproach
 or suspicion of interestedness, incompetence
 or subornation. In the second category, the
 court, equally has no difficulty in coming to
 its conclusion. It is in the third category of
 cases, that the court has to be circumspect
 and has to look for corroboration in material
 particulars by reliable testimony, direct or
 circumstantial. There is another danger in
 insisting on plurality of witnesses. Irrespective of the quality of the oral
 evidence of a single witness, if courts were
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 56. In the present case, the accused persons are facing the
charges of the offences punishable u/s 498A / 304-B / 34 IPC for
having committed the dowry death of the deceased Deepika. 57. In the present case, the date of marriage between the
deceased and her husband accused Dharmesh @ Dhruv is not
disputed. The deceased Deepika got married on 11.07.2016 and
the death of the deceased took place within 7 years of her
marriage. As per the death report and postmortem report Ex.
PW2/A (colly), the death of the deceased took place on
06.06.2018, i.e. within seven years of her marriage. 58. So as to attract the presumption of law enshrined under section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act, from the statements of
the parents of the deceased Ex. PW3/A and Ex. PW4/A, recorded
before the concerned SDM/Executive Magistrate are not enough
and the prosecution had to discharge the initial burden of proof
after establishing the essential ingredients mentioned in Section
113-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 59. The prosecution story relied heavily upon the testimony of
five star witnesses, namely PW-3 Subhash Chand Sharma (father
of the deceased), PW-4 Sarvesh Devi (mother of the deceased),
PW-7 Amit Kumar Sharma (mediator of the marriage), PW-8
Parveen Kumar Sharma (the cousin brother of accused Raj
Kumar Sharma) and PW-9 Shabra (tenant of the accused
persons). However, all the said witnesses had turned hostile
before the court and they had not deposed about any
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 60. All the public witnesses have categorically deposed that the
deceased was suffering from depression, even prior to her
marriage. She was receiving medical treatment and it has come in
the testimony of her parents PW-3 Subhash Chand Sharma and
PW-4 Sarvesh Devi that she had attempted to commit suicide
even prior to her marriage with accused Dharmesh @ Dhruv and
as per them the deceased Deepika committed suicide due to
depression. Both PW-3 Subhash Chand Sharma and PW-4
Sarvesh Devi have denied making any statement i.e. Ex. PW3/A
and PW4/A before the Executive Magistrate, as merely their
signatures taken on the written documents without the same
being read over to them. They had categorically deposed that no
demands of dowry were raised by the accused persons and that
their daughter was never subjected to harassment on the demands
of dowry. The other public witnesses also did not depose about
any dowry demands raised by the accused persons or that she
was subjected to cruelty/harassment by her in-laws. Therefore,
the prosecution has miserably failed to prove beyond reasonable
doubt that the deceased was subjected to cruelty or harassment
by her husband or any relatives of her husband and such cruelty
or harassment was for/or in connection with demands of dowry.
Therefore, the essential ingredient so as to attract section 304-B IPC, 1860 is not made out in the present case. Reliance is placed
upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
"Mustafa Shahadal Shaikh Vs. State of Maharastra " (2012) 11
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 61. In the facts and circumstances of the present case, in the
statements of the parents of the deceased, recorded by the SDM,
there were specific allegations of the deceased being subjected to
cruelty or harassment in connection with the demands of dowry,
the presumption against the accused persons, that they had
committed her dowry death could not be raised in the present
case as the prosecution failed to establish the essential
ingredients mentioned therein. The initial burden of proof lied on
the prosecution. The burden would not have shifted on to the
accused persons, merely because the deceased had died unnatural
death within 7 years of her marriage, without even proving the
demand of dowry prior to the incident. In the present case, all the
material prosecution witnesses have turned hostile and the basic
ingredient of the offence punishable u/s 304-B could not be
satisfied. Reliance is placed upon the judgment of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in " State Vs. Tej Bahadur " (2004) 13
SCC 300, "Devender Vs. State" ( 2005) 12 SCC 104 and "State
of AP Vs. Raj Gopal Asawa " (2004) 4 SCC 470. 62. This court is fully conscious of the duty being cast upon the
trial courts wherein, it is called upon to see that not only the
interest of the accused as per the law is protected, however, the
societal and collective interest is not ignored. It is the sacrosanct
duty of the court to arrive at the truth on the basis of the material
brought on record. In the present case, the father of the deceased
PW-3 Suresh Chand Sharma and the mother of deceased PW-4 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 63. There was an inherent contradiction in the statement of the
parents of the deceased, with respect to the role assigned to the
accused persons in their statements before the SDM/Executive
Magistrate. In their testimony, both PW-3 Subhash Chand
Sharma and PW-4 Sarvesh Devi had deposed that the SDM Sh.
R.L Meena had made inquiries from them and obtained their
signatures on written papers, however they did not know what
was written on the said papers. 64. The testimony of PW-5 R.L Meena, the then Executive
Magistrate wherein he had deposed that the statements of the
parents of the deceased or other inquest related documents were
not prepared in his handwriting and that the same were recorded
by his clerk or by the IO upon his dictation, does not help the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 65. As far as the medical testimony is concerned, there is no
conclusive opinion given by any prosecution witness that the
death of the deceased was not caused by her hanging herself from
the ceiling fan with the help of a saree. As per the postmortem
report Ex. PW2/A, the cause of death was aphyxia as a result of
ante-mortem hanging. There is no testimony of any witness to
suggest any foul play on the part of the accused persons. 66. Since, the star prosecution witnesses namely PW-3 Suresh
Chand Sharma and PW-4 Smt. Sarvesh Devi have turned hostile
and have not supported the case of the prosecution, this court
deems it appropriate to discuss the law laid down in dealing with
the testimony of a witness over an issue, the matter is decided by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " C. Muniappan v. State of
T.N. ", (2010) 9 SCC 567 wherein it is held as under: (Vide Bhagwan Singh v. State of Haryana,
 (1976) 1 SCC 389, Rabindra Kumar Dey v. State of Orissa, (1976) 4 SCC 233, Syad
 Akbar v. State of Karnataka, (1980) 1 SCC
 30 and Khujji v. State of M.P., (1991) 3
 SCC 627, SCC p. 635, para 6.) 82. In State of U.P. v. Ramesh Prasad Misra [(1996) 10 SCC 360: 1996 SCC (Cri) 1278]
 this Court held that (at SCC p. 363, para 7)
 evidence of a hostile witness would not be
 totally rejected if spoken in favour of the
 prosecution or the accused but required to
 be subjected to close scrutiny and that
 portion of the evidence which is consistent
 with the case of the prosecution or defence
 can be relied upon. A similar view has been
 reiterated by this Court in Balu Sonba
 Shinde v. State of Maharashtra [(2002) 7 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 83. Thus, the law can be summarised to the
 effect that the evidence of a hostile witness
 cannot be discarded as a whole, and relevant
 parts thereof which are admissible in law,
 can be used by the prosecution or the
 defence. 84. In the instant case, some of the material
 witnesses i.e. B. Kamal (PW 86) and R.
 Maruthu (PW 51) turned hostile. Their
 evidence has been taken into consideration
 by the courts below strictly in accordance
 with law. Some omissions, improvements in
 the evidence of the PWs have been pointed
 out by the learned counsel for the appellants,
 but we find them to be very trivial in nature. 85. It is settled proposition of law that even Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 67. When the court is convinced with the quality of the
evidence produced, it becomes the best evidence. Such testimony
being natural, adding to the degree of probability, the court has to
make reliance upon it in proving a fact. There is no doubt that the
trial court is the best court to decide on material aspect of a case
as no mathematical calculation or straitjacket formula can be
made on the assessment of a witness, as the journey towards the
truth can be seen better through the eyes of the trial judge. In
fact, this is the real objective behind the enactment itself, which
extends the maximum discretion to the court. Each case must be
judged on its own facts. There is no doubt that when a criminal
court has to appreciate evidence given by witnesses, who are
partisan or interested or hostile, it has to be very careful in
weighing such evidence. Whether or not there are discrepancies
in the evidence; whether or not the evidence strikes the court as
genuine; whether or not the story disclosed by the evidence is
probable, are all matters which must be taken into account. It is
settled law that the evidence of the hostile witness would not be
totally rejected if spoken in favour of the prosecution or the
accused but required to be subjected to close scrutiny and if on
such scrutiny, his evidence is found to be intrinsically reliable,
inherently probable & wholly trustworthy and that portion of the
evidence that is consistent with the case of the prosecution or Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 68. From the evidence brought on record, the prosecution has
miserably failed to satisfy the ingredients of the offence
punishable u/s 304 B IPC, 1860. From the record, it is clear that
the prosecution could not bring home the guilt of the accused
persons for having subjected the deceased to cruelty. There is
nothing on the record, as brought in through the testimony of the
prosecution witnesses that there was any willful conduct of such
nature as is likely to drive the deceased to commit to suicide or to
cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health whether
mental or physical. The testimony of the prosecution witnesses
could not establish that the deceased was harassed with a view to
coerce her or any person related to her, to made any unlawful
demand for any property or valuable security or on account of
failure by her or any person related to her to meet such a demand.
In the present case, it is not the case of the prosecution that the
deceased had committed suicide or that the accused persons had
abetted the said suicide. There is no evidence brought on record
to establish that the deceased was subjected to cruelty and
therefore, the accused persons cannot be convicted for
committing the offence punishable u/s 498-A IPC, 1860. 69. Therefore, the inherent contradictions and inconsistencies in
the deposition of the star witnesses PW-3 Subash Chand Sharma
and PW-4 Smt. Sarvesh Devi, who had not supported the case of
the prosecution has cast serious doubts upon the veracity of the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 70. In a case based on circumstantial evidence, the settled law is
that the circumstantial from which the conclusion of guilt is
drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be
conclusive in nature. Moreover, all the circumstances should be
complete and there should be no gap left in the chain of evidence.
Further, the proved circumstances must be consistent only with
the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent
with his innocence, as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India in "Hanuman Govind Nargundkar Vs. State of MP" AIR
1952 SC 343, "Bodh Raj Vs. State of J&K" AIR 2002 SC 3164
and "Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra " AIR
1984 SC 1622 and "C. Chenga Reddy and Ors. Vs. State of A.P."
(1996) 10 SCC 193. 71. It is also settled law that accused has to only proboblized the
defense and he is presumed to be innocent till he is proved to be Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 72. There is another golden thread which runs through the web of
administration of justice in criminal cases, is that if two views are
possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to the
guilt of the accused and other to his innocence, the view which is
favourable to the accused should be adopted, as held by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in "Kali Ram Vs. State of
Himanchal Pradesh" AIR 1973 SC 2773. 73. The improvements and the inherent contradictions in the
testimony of the prosecution witnesses had certainly raised
doubts in the mind of the Court and the effort of the Criminal
Court is not to be prowl for imaginative doubts, unless is doubt is
of a reasonable dimension and is what judicially conscientious
mind entertains with some objectivity, otherwise no benefit can
be claimed by the accused. In the present case the doubts raised
from the testimony of the prosecution witnesses cannot be set to
be merely imaginative and the same has been borne from the
record of the present case. The said doubts are not merely
imaginary or trivial in nature and it has dented the entire case of
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 74. When the entire evidence of the present case is cumulatively
read and appreciated in the background of the settled principle of
law and in the light of the evidence adduced by the prosecution is
not worthy of acceptance and there is a serious shadow of doubt
cast upon the case of the prosecution, that the accused persons
had committed dowry death of deceased Deepika. All the public
witnesses, including the parents of the deceased had not
supported the case of the prosecution and they were declared
hostile. Even after detailed cross examination conducted on
behalf of the state, nothing material came out from their
testimonies to substantiate the prosecution's case. Furthermore,
from the testimony of the parents of the deceased and other
public witnesses, it has come on record that the deceased
Deepika was suffering from depression and she was taking
treatment for the same from the doctor. Furthermore, it has also
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 75. The accused persons have already filed his bail bonds u/s
437A Cr.PC and the same shall remain in force for a period of
six months from today. All the other bail bonds/surety bonds
stands canceled and the earlier sureties except for surety given u/s 437A Cr.PC stands discharged. CNR No. DLNE01-0003445-2019 State Vs. Dharmesh @ Dhruv & Ors. FIR No. 259/2018 Page no. 64/65 76. The case property, if any, be released to the rightful owner as
per the law and the applicable rules, subject to the orders of the
Hon'ble Appellate Court(s). 77. File be consigned to the record room after due compliance. Announced in the open court on 09.08.2024.
This judgment consists of 65 pages and
all of them have been digitally signed by me.