I bought my Airtel number 8 years back, i have been using that number from last 8 years without any interruptions. But few days back suddenly network gone and when I called customer care, i received the information to get the sim replaced. As per instructions i visited the nearest Airtel store and told them the issue. To my surprise they told me that this number is not registered on my name. As per them it is registered on the name of "Garry Sobers Sobti" which seems impossible as my name is "Ashish Boora" I was not able to figure out any solution as they refused to swap the sim. Another thing is 2-3 years back i got this Sim upgraded from 3G to 4G by providing my Aadhar card, and they gave me new sim card without any problem. As i am using this number from last 8 years, i have shared this with all my family and friends, and i have this number linked to all my confidential things like bank account and all other details. I would like you to rectify this mistake and update my name as Ashish Boora for this Sim card as per the original identity provided by me while buying this Sim card and also during upgradation from 3G to 4G. So that i can enjoy uninterrupted services for which i have paid for. After all this i email this matter to nodal officer of Haryana and Himachal. After one week of wait i received a reply from them as "We request your blood relative to visit the same airtel store along with documents in order to avail a duplicate SIM card for the above mention number." Most frustrating thing is that they didn't even read my email properly. That name "Garry Sobers" is not my relative rather i don't even know who he is. What i know is that i have my identity while buying this sim card and i have paid for it. And i am using it from last 8 years hassle free. And i have used my Airtel number in all my confidential information i just need it on my name back, for which i have paid and given all proofs while buying this sim card. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)