S.M.SUBRAMANIAM, J. The Suo Motu Public Interest Litigation (PIL) arises from allegations

 of massive illegal mining and sale of “Beach Sand Minerals” (hereinafter

 referred to as 'BSMs') by various private lessees/mining companies in the

 three southern districts of Tamil Nadu namely Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and

 Kanniyakumari during the period of 2000-2001 till 2016-2017. BSMs are

 also referred to as 'Heavy Minerals'. 2. The PIL was originally filed by one Dr.Victor Rajamanickam. For

 various reasons (as available on the record of this Court) he withdrew

 himself. However, in view of the serious nature of allegations involved

 including the alleged environmental damages caused, and National security

 this Court converted the PIL into suo motu case on 28.01.2016.

 II. Brief Note on Beach Sand Minerals: 3. The availability of beach sand minerals like Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon,

 Leucoxene, Monazite, Sillimanite and Garnet along the coastline of India is

 a result of geological processes starting from erosion of hinterland rocks

 containing these minerals, their erosion and transport to the coastal tracts

 by streams and rivers, repeated winnowing action by wind and ocean

 currents and sea level changes, mineral rock formations, drift of eroded Page 9 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 material through ocean currents and subsequent deposit of minerals on

 shores. The processes resulting in the deposits of these rare minerals along

 the shore, stretch over several thousands of years and are continuously

 driven by sea/ocean erosion of rock formations in other parts of the world.

 The ocean currents transport the rare minerals from their origin to the

 shores here. The transportation is dependent upon the physical properties

 of the minerals themselves i.e., density, mass, etc. 4. In so far as the State of Tamil Nadu is concerned BSMs are

 peculiar to the three coastal districts of Tamil Nadu namely Thoothukudi,

 Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari alone. Beach sand is rich in seven heavy

 minerals - ilmenite, leucoxene (brown ilmenite), rutile, zircon, sillimanite,

 garnet and monazite. They are processed to derive rare earth elements and

 titanium that are used in a variety of industries, including paints and

 cosmetics. 5. In Beach Sand Minerals (BSMs) ore, there occurs Monazite, a

 prescribed substance as per Atomic Energy Act, 1962 . Monazite contains

 Thorium, Uranium and Rare Earth (RE) elements. Thorium is a central

 component of India's nuclear policy and is considered a matter of key

 National security. Therefore, private entities are prohibited from dealing with Page 10 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 or processing Monazite. 6. The world's reserve of monazite is estimated to be in the range of

 12 Million tonnes of which nearly 8 Million tonnes occur with the heavy

 minerals in the beach sands of India in the States of Kerala, Tamil Nadu,

 Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. III. India's Nuclear Development Plans Dependant on
 Thorium: Thorium has been extracted chiefly from monazite. Monazite, is a principal Page 11 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 source of Thorium, and Indian Rare Earths Limited (IREL), a Government of

 India undertaking under the administration control of Department of Atomic

 Energy (DAE) is the leading supplier of Monazite in the country. None other

 than IREL is allowed to process the Monazite. 9. India is currently recognized by the International Atomic Energy

 Agency (IAEA) to possess a lion's share of Monazite / Thorium resources in

 the world. 10. As mineral sands in India contain radioactive mineral, it is kept

 under the purview of Government entities for effective traceability of

 radioactive material. The Government entities in this field extract minerals

 that are free from radioactivity from the mineral sand. The mineral

 containing radioactivity is the property of Government of India.

 IV. Scope of the Public Interest Litigation (PIL): 11. It is also pertinent to note that after the conversion of the PIL to

 Suo Motu PIL, the scope is not restricted to Monazite, but all BSMs. This

 Court clarified by order dated 21.01.2019 that “this Court is of the

 considered view that the scope of the Suo Motu Public Interest Litigation

 covers not only Monazite but also all other BSMs especially with regard to Page 12 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 the alleged illegal mining, transportation and other alleged activities”. This

 order was challenged before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in

 S.L.P.No.10498 of 2019, which was disposed of on 04.07.2019 with a

 direction to this Court to dispose of various petitions, including this PIL,

 expeditiously. 12. It is also to be clarified that the argument put forth by mining

 companies that the PIL itself has become infructuous owing to the

 amendments brought about to the Mines and Minerals (Development and

 Regulation) Act, 1957 [hereinafter after referred to as ' MMDR Act '] and

 introduction of the Atomic Concession Rules, 2016, does not stand

 accepted, since this Suo Motu PIL is related to the issue of Illegal mining,

 transportation and sale of raw sand and BSMs during the period 2000-2001

 till end of 2016 and related issues and irregularities committed during the

 said period, which ought to be decided. The illegalities / irregularities alleged

 during 2000-2001 till 2016 ought to be examined and cannot be brushed

 aside owing to the advent of amendments, which is post 2016 and shall

 have no bearing on the validity of this PIL. V. Significance of This PIL: 13. The negative environmental impacts due to illegal Beach sand Page 13 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 mining is humongous. There are broad scale allegations of mining and

 export of illegally mined minerals such as Monazite with the active support

 of officials and bureaucrats. Various legislations including the Environment

 Protection Act, The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act,

 The Atomic Energy Act and the Rules framed thereunder have been

 violated. There is also large scale violations in the matter of payment of

 royalty, sales tax and central excise duty. 14. The Suo Motu PIL was initiated based on the petitions filed in

 Court and widespread reports of massive illegal beach sand mining from

 sea shores of southern districts of Tamil Nadu namely Tirunelveli,

 Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari, minerals mined beyond approved

 quantities and approved minerals, violation of various environmental

 protection laws and ecological damage along coastlines, failure of the

 officials in monitoring and enforcement of duties and responsibilities and

 more importantly allegation of failure to account for Monazite tailings. 15. The main allegation in this PIL relates to charges of massive

 illegal sand mining of RE and BSMs by various mining companies with the

 active connivance, protection and/ or collusion of different State agencies,

 the State and Central Government tasked with the responsibility of Page 14 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 monitoring such Beach sand mining. There are also allegations of policy

 violations, illegalities in mining, separation, transportation and export of

 BSMs, abdication of responsibility on the part of the official monitoring

 agencies. A matter of great concern is the allegation of loss to the State

 exchequer of an unimaginable amount of money which ought to have been

 accrued by the Government, both State and Centre, as royalty due to

 unethical practices adopted by some of the mining companies. Another

 issue of concern that has been flagged is about the collusive role of official

 agencies in the system of royalty calculations. Of equal importance is also

 the allegations of breach of national security by way of smuggling or

 clandestine movement of monazite or monazite tailings from India to some

 countries with nuclear weapon programmes. VI. Facts in Brief: 16. A total number of 64 mining leases were granted to private

 lessees for mining Garnet, Ilmenite, Rutile, etc., in patta and coastal

 poramboke lands in the three coastal districts of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi

 and Kanniyakumari under the provisions of Mines and Minerals

 (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and Mineral Concession Rules, Page 15 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 1960. The details are as follows: 17. Three Mining leases have been granted to M/s.IREL India

 Limited, for mining Garnet, Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon, Sillimanite, Leucoxene

 and Monazite in patta and coastal poramboke lands in Kanniyakumari

 District. TAMIN have been granted with one mining lease for mining Garnet

 in Tirunelveli District. 18. Mining leases granted to private lessees in the three districts are

 as follows: Page 16 of 238 19. Mining leases granted to Government undertakings are as

 follows: Report of the District Collector, Thoothukudi, August 2013: 20. The immediate incident which led to the imposition of ban on

 mining of beach sand minerals initially in Thoothukudi and thereafter in the Page 17 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 other Districts was the report of the then District Collector, Thoothukudi

 (Tuticorin) dated 06.08.2013 informing the Government of Tamil Nadu that

 in response to various complaints of villagers of Keelavaippar village of

 Vilathikulam Taluka regarding illegal mining by M/s.V.V.Mineral, a

 multidisciplinary team of District Environmental Engineer, Assistant Director

 Mines and Deputy Collector (training) conducted an inspection of the mining

 sites in the village. Following their report that the company has illicitly

 quarried raw sand from Government Poromboke land and unsurveyed land

 adjoining the leasehold area, the District Collector constituted two teams to

 inspect the areas where illicit mining had been reported and submit a

 detailed report. 21. Of the two teams, the team headed by the DRO, Thoothukudi

 visited Keelavaippar – 1 village and reported that the company,

 M/s.V.V.Mineral has illicitly quarried raw sand to the tune of 85, 611 Cubic

 Meter (CBM) consisting of 2,39,712 Metric Ton (MT) of beach mineral from

 Government Poromboke SF.No.989 and unsurveyed land adjoining

 S.No.989 of the village. 22. The Special Deputy Collector (Stamps) reported that mining

 activities had taken place only in the permitted area of Vembar and Page 18 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Periasamipuram villages but the area of sand excavated has not been filled

 up properly as per rules and regulations of the Mine Act. 23. The District Collector, Thoothukudi pointed out that he had

 already reported “large scale illicit” beach sand mining by M/s. Beach Sand

 Minerals Company in Padukkapathu Village of Sattankulam Taluk. The

 District Collector therefore suggested that detailed field inspections should

 be undertaken by a Special Team, consisting of departments of Revenue,

 Police, Environment and Forests, Geology and Mining in connection with

 the illicit mining of beach minerals by various lessees.

 Mr. Gagandeep Singh Bedi Committee's Report on Illegal Beach

 Sand Mining by Private Mining Companies: 24. Based on the report of the District Collector, the Government of

 Tamil Nadu formed a Special team headed by Mr. Gagandeep Singh Bedi,

 IAS, Secretary, Revenue department vide G.O.Ms.No.156, Industries

 (MMD1) Department dated 08.08.2013 to inspect and verify in terms of Section 24 of MMDR Act, 1957, whether there is illicit mining by the six

 lessees of minerals - Garnet, illmenite and Rutile in Thoothukudi district.

 This team also consisted of officers from the departments of Revenue,

 Environment and Forest and Geology and Mining. Page 19 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 25. The Special Team headed by Mr. Gagandeep Singh Bedi, IAS,

 evolved a comprehensive methodology to conduct the field study through a

 process of triangulation so as to ensure objectivity and avoidance of bias. 26. The Enquiry Team under Mr.Bedi was divided into various teams

 who inspected the mining leasehold areas. The Reports of these teams

 were then randomly allotted to another team for super-checking and both

 these reports submitted were verified by the Core Team. The field visits

 apart, a team of officials headed by JD (Mines) Mr.Palanivel and other

 officials inspected the Mineral Separation Units of the lessees on 19th, 20th,

 29th and 30th August, 2013. The Commissioner of Customs, Thoothukudi

 Port and Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Chennai were approached to

 furnish details of quantity of beach sand minerals exported. The lessees

 were also asked in writing to submit details of pit-wise quarrying operations

 done and other issues they wanted to represent. Key Findings in Mr.Bedi Report: 27. Mr.Gagandeep Singh Bedi submitted a detailed 289 page Report

 of the Special Team on the Inspection of Six Lease Areas of Major Minerals

 (Garnet, Ilmenite, Rutile etc) in Thoothukudi District, to the then Hon'ble Page 20 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, in mid-September, 2013. 28. It was estimated by the Special team lead by Mr.Bedi, IAS, that

 illegal mining was detected over an extent of 66.18.0 hects. And it was

 estimated that a total quantum of 10,29,955 M.T of raw sand had been

 illegally mined and transported from the non-leased out areas in

 Thoothukudi district. 29. Subsequently vide G.O.Ms.No.173, Industries (MMD1)

 Department dated 17.09.2013, in order to have a comprehensive

 assessment of the mining of major minerals in districts other than

 Thoothukudi, the same committee was also directed to inspect and verify

 illicit mining of major minerals in leases granted to private parties in

 Tirunelveli, Tiruchirapalli, Kanniyakumari and Madurai districts. The

 committee followed the same pattern of investigation adopted in

 Thoothukudi district, albeit in an expanded manner. 30. Two remaining reports submitted by the Special Team headed by

 Thiru.Gagandeep Singh Bedi, I.A.S., in respect of Tirunelveli and

 Kanniyakumari Districts were produced by the learned Advocate General

 before the Court on 11.01.2017. It was reported by the Special Team that Page 21 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 illegal mining was detected over an extent of 412.99 acres of non-leased out

 areas in Tirunelveli District and it was estimated that a total quantum of

 90,29,838 MT of raw sand had been illegally mined and transported from

 the non-leased out areas in Tirunelveli District. Further, the illegal mining

 was detected over an extent of 4.05 acres of non-leased out areas in

 Kanniyakumari District and it was estimated that 54,446 MT of raw sand had

 been illegally mined and transported from the non-leased out areas in

 Kanniyakumari District. Ban on Mining and Transportation of BSMs Pending Inspection: 31. As per the directive of the Government, to aid the inspection of

 the Committee under section 24 of the MMDR Act, the District Collectors of

 the aforementioned districts passed orders to stop the mining operations

 and transport permits to private lessees from the month September, 2013.

 But this ban also paved way for more allegations to crop up that the mining

 companies were illicitly allowed to carry on their mining operations even

 when the ban was in force. Litigations Began Cropping Up on the Issue of Illegal Beach

 Sand Mining: 32. Soon thereafter a number of cases including Writ Petitions and Page 22 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 PIL came to be filed by different parties including the present Respondents

 making charges, claims and counter claims. The Division Bench of this

 Court came to consider the various writ petitions filed and delivered a

 common order dated 12.12.2013 in W.P.(MD).No.1233 of 2012, etc., and

 Batch. The critical observations of the Division Bench of this Court in its

 Order dated 12.12.2013 is as reproduced below: The petitioners have not been in a position to show
 that the special team, constituted by the Government
 of Tamil Nadu, would not be in a position to carry out
 the task, satisfactorily. Further, the allegation made by
 the petitioners that the constitution of the special team,
 by the Government of Tamil Nadu, is only an eye Page 23 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 wash, and that it is merely for satisfying this court that
 action is being taken against the alleged illegal mining
 activities cannot be accepted. In fact, from the
 submissions made by the learned Advocate General,
 appearing on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu, we
 are convinced Government of Tamil Nadu is taking
 serious action to curb the illicit mining activities, if any,
 in the coastal and other areas in the State of Tamil
 Nadu. Only after the special team submits its report
 such acts, if any, in the light. Thereafter, it would be
 open to the state government, as well as the central
 government, to initiate appropriate action against the
 illicit mining activities, if they are found to have taken
 place. It would be premature for this court to arrive at
 a definite conclusion, at this stage, and to direct the
 official Respondents to initiate appropriate action
 against the alleged illegal mining activities, said to be
 carried on by the lessees, especially, when certain
 factual aspects have to be verified and confirmed, by a
 proper enquiry and investigation. 33. However, we are conscious of the fact that
 the issues raised before this Court, relating to the
 alleged illicit mining of minerals in the coastal districts
 of the State of Tamil Nadu and in the other areas of
 the state, are of public importance. We are also highly
 concerned about such issues as they also highlight
 the urgent need to protect and preserve the natural
 environment by preventing over exploitation of the
 natural resources of the country. There is no doubt
 that the governments concerned have to be vigilant in Page 24 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 taking appropriate steps to strike a fine balance
 between proper utilisation of the available resources
 and the preservation of such resources for posterity.
 We are also clear that such a balance can necessary
 scientific data provided by persons, who are experts in
 be achieved only on the basis of the their respective
 fields. 34. In such circumstances, in view of the fact
 that a committee of experts, under the Chairmanship
 of Mr. Gangandeep Singh Bedi, Secretary, Revenue
 Department, has been constituted by the State
 Government to examine, investigate and to file a
 report, after physical verification of the mining sites in
 question, we find it appropriate to permit the petitioner
 in the writ petitions, including those who are wanting to
 implead themselves in the writ petitions, to submit their
 representations to Mr.Gagandeep Singh Bedi, the
 Chairman of the Committee, along with the necessary
 documents, if any, within fifteen days from today. It is
 also made clear that it would also be open to the
 private Respondents, who are parties herein, to
 submit their representations to the Chairman of the
 Committee, within the time specified above. On receipt
 of such representations, the Committee concerned
 shall examine the issues, by making necessary
 enquires and investigation, and if necessary, by
 serving appropriate notices on the parties concerned,
 and file a report before the State Government, for
 necessary action, as expeditiously as possible. 35. In such circumstances, in view of the fact Page 25 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 that the parties concerned have been given the liberty
 to place all the relevant materials before the
 committee of experts, constituted by the State
 Government, we are not inclined to make any
 observations, with regard to the validity and
 correctness of the claims and the counter claims made
 by the parties before this Court. It would be left to the
 Committee concerned to check and to verify such
 claims, if necessary, by providing an opportunity of
 hearing to the parties concerned and to file its report
 before the State Government, as directed by this
 Court, by this order. On receipt of such report it is for
 the State Government to take appropriate steps and to
 pass necessary orders, as it finds fit and necessary, in
 accordance with law. As it is an admitted fact that
 subsequent proceedings had been issued pursuant to
 the impugned show cause notices issued by the
 Respondent concerned, the writ petitions in
 W.P.Nos.14399 and 14400 of 2011 have become
 infructuous. As such, they are dismissed, as
 infructuous. In such circumstances, as no further
 orders are necessary, the writ petitions in
 W.P.No.5549 of 2007 and W.P.No.1233 of 2012 and
 the impleading petitions filed therein stand closed.” 33. Subsequent to this order of the Division Bench, the validity of

 G.O.Ms.No.156, Industries (MMD.1) Department dated 08.08.2013 and

 G.O.Ms.No.173, Industries (MMD.1) Department dated 17.09.2013, which Page 26 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 paved way for constitution of the Bedi Committee to inspect and verify

 allegations of illegal beach sand mining was challenged vide

 W.P.Nos.16716 and 19641 of 2014 and by order dated 29.05.2015, the

 learned Single Judge of this Court set aside the G.O.s to the extent of the

 Petitioner's lease hold areas alone (Petitioners in W.P.No.16717 and 19641

 of 2014 being M/s.Transworld Garnet India Pvt. Ltd. and M/s.V.V.Mineral

 respectively) and appointed Mr. Justice V.K. Sharma, a former Judge of the

 High Court of Madras as the Chairperson of the Special Committee for

 inspection of petitioners lease hold areas. The Court held the G.O's to be

 valid to all other quarries except the Petitioner's. 34. This Order by the learned Single Judge has come up for

 challenge vide Writ Appeals in W.A.Nos.1168 and 1169 of 2015 filed by the

 State Government and W.A.Nos. 1220 and 1221 of 2015 by Respondents

 24 to 26, in the present case. These above mentioned Writ Appeals are

 connected with this Suo Motu PIL and is heard together before this Bench.

 Events Leading to the Initiation of Suo Motu PIL: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 40. Further, there was a District Level Committee meeting on

 prevention of illegal beach sand mining and transportation of beach sand

 minerals held on 09.11.2016 at Collectorate, Tirunelveli. It was found by the

 District Level Committee that all the private lessees in Tirunelveli District

 were indulged in unlawful mining, transportation of beach sand minerals for

 the period from 2008-2009 to 2012-2013. Transport permits issued to the

 lessees for beach sand minerals for the period from 2000-2001 to 2013-

 2014 were compared with the quantum of such minerals permitted for

 production in the approved mining plan / scheme of mining and it was found

 that a huge quantum of beach sand minerals unlawfully transported by the

 private lessees. 41. As the entire quantum of beach sand minerals kept with the

 private lessees, both processed and unprocessed were arrived as illegal

 storage. It was resolved by the District Committee to request the Assistant

 Commissioner, Customs, Thoothukudi to produce certificate of legally mined

 minerals obtained from the District Collector concerned before allowing

 export of minerals and to insist on transport permits along with bulk permit.

 The Chairman, Port Trust of Cochin, Vizagapattinam and new Mangalore

 were addressed by the District Collector, Tirunelveli vide letter dated

 19.12.2016 informing that private lessees from the State of Tamil Nadu Page 30 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 were making their attempt for export of beach sand minerals from the Ports

 outside the State of Tamil Nadu and no export of beach sand minerals can

 be allowed in the absence of valid transport permits issued by the Deputy

 Director of Geology and Mining / Assistant Director of Geology and Mining. 42. The Commissioner of Customs, Cochin issued Trade Facility

 dated 22.12.2016 stating that the Government of Tamil Nadu has banned

 the mining operation of all private lessees for beach minerals and stopped

 issuance of transport permits, pending completion inspection by the Special

 Team and therefore it was decided to verify the source of beach sand

 minerals being sent for export and as an interim measure directed all the

 exporters of beach sand minerals to produce documentary proof obtained

 from competent authority. Constitution of Mr. Satyabrata Sahoo Committee: 43. It is pertinent to note the Mr.Bedi committee had conducted

 inspection under Section 24 of the MMDR Act and during the said period

 based on the directive of the Tamil Nadu government, the District collectors

 of the said 3 districts had ordered complete stoppage of mining and

 stoppage of issuance of transport permits for transport of BSMs pending

 inspection. But there were reports that inspite of the ban on BSM mining Page 31 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 and transportation, illicit mining, processing and transportation was taking

 place with the connivance of the officials. The learned Amicus Curiae

 through a status report dated 21.11.2016 had brought to the attention of this

 Court that despite the ban, there was widespread mining of ROM,

 processing and transporting of BSMs occurring in 3 districts of the State.

 Relevant document in support of this was filed before the Court. 44. The First Bench of Madras High Court by interim order dated

 11.01.2017 in the Suo Motu PIL W.P.No.1592 of 2015 and W.A.Nos.1168,

 1169, 1220 and 1221 of 2015 directed the State and Central Governments

 to look into the issues jointly and suggest a strategy on the formation of

 special squads for patrolling of sea shore areas across the coastal districts

 of Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari and Thoothukudi and for the constitution of

 Special Team headed by a Secretary Level Officer of the State Government

 and officials from Customs and Excise Department, Atomic Minerals

 Directorate (AMD) and other departments concerned for estimation of the

 stock of minerals kept in the processing plants, storage yards, bonded

 warehouse and other places. 45. Hence, following orders of the Court, a Committee of Central and

 State government officials was constituted headed by Mr.Satyabrata Sahoo, Page 32 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 I.A.S., vide G.O.Ms.No.41, Industries (MMD.1) Department dated

 07.04.2017. Inspections were carried out at all processing plants, godowns

 and other storage areas of the mining lessees in the 3 districts. All stocks of

 the mining companies were sealed in godowns, stockyards, factories and

 premises of the companies with effect from April, 2018. 46. A comprehensive report of the special team was submitted to the

 Government on 18.04.2018 and the same was filed before this Court on

 24.04.2018. It consists of main report and several volumes of data from the

 AMD/AERB of Government of India and various inspection teams. The

 Monazite content in various stocks as found by Atomic Minerals Directorate

 (AMD) has also been analysed. The actual stock of BSMs kept with the

 private plant owners in the 3 districts, as estimated by Sahoo's Committee

 was to the tune of 1.50 Crore Metric Tonnes. Key Findings of Sahoo Report: Proper regulation of export of minerals containing monazite / monazite

 equivalents will be appropriate in view of the radioactive content of the

 minerals which in turn might have a bearing on the National Security, if the

 products fall into wrong hands. Reassessment Report: There is also a finding of high quantum of monazite in the additional stock

 found. Page 37 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Amicus Curiae Reports: Regarding Allegation of Bias and Prejudice Raised against

 Amicus Curiae: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 61. On 28.01.2016, when this Court appointed this Amicus, he was

 not present in court. So on the next hearing date, 15.3.2016, the Amicus

 brought to the attention of this court that in a previous litigation

 (W.P.No.1233 of 2012) involving similar allegations regarding BSM, on

 behalf of an intervenor he was on record as an advocate on behalf of his

 office, along with his wife, D. Nagasaila, Advocate. The Amicus informed the

 court that though his name was on record, he had never appeared even

 once, in the case. Therefore he informed, that if the various private

 Respondents had any objections to his appointment as amicus, he will not

 accept the responsibility. The then the Hon'ble Chief Justice asked all the

 counsel, including the private Respondents if they had any objections. All

 parties including the counsel for 8th Respondent / M/s.V.V.Mineral and 22nd

 Respondent Mr.S.Vaikundarajan stated that they had no objections. In the

 order dated 15.03.2016 this court recorded the following order: 62. Another accusation made by the private Respondents (R8, R9

 and R22) is that the Amicus was a member of a human rights organisation

 called Peoples' Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL). and had visited the BSM Page 40 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 area way back in the 1990's and had got into an altercation with

 M/s.V.V.Mineral employees. Yet another accusation is that the Amicus is an

 Editor of an internal magazine called PUCL. Bulletin in which articles critical

 of BSM mining were carried which disclosed the bias against

 M/s.V.V.Mineral and BSM industry on the part of the Amicus. 63. This accusation was denied by the Amicus claiming it to be totally

 false, fabricated, unsubstantiated and maliciously made. He states that he

 has never ever visited any BSM mining site in the three coastal districts

 much less had any interaction with the employees there. All this was spelt

 out before this Court. After hearing the counsel for R8, and the Amicus this

 court passed the following order on 20.09.2016: 64. Apart from these two occasions when Respondents 8, 9 and 22

 accused Amicus of bias, the same parties, viz., R8 – M/s.V.V.Mineral and

 R9 – M/s.Transworld Garnet India Private Limited filed W.M.P.No.24173 of

 2017 and W.M.P.No.24174 of 2017 making the very same allegations,

 which was dismissed as withdrawn on 03.10.2017 itself. 65. While so, despite knowing that the same allegations were

 considered and rejected by this court on three occasions - viz., 15.03.2016,

 20.09.2016 and on 03.10.2017, the parties have repeated the same

 allegations in: 21.12.2024. Page 42 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 66. It should be pointed out that they have been repeating the

 allegations against the Amicus despite having personal knowledge that the

 same allegations were raised earlier, considered and dismissed by this

 Court. Hence, this Court finds no merit in these allegations against the

 Amicus. The First Report of Amicus Curiae: 67. The First report of the Amicus Curiae deals with the mining during

 Phase I (2000-2001 till September 2013). This study was made

 independently by the Amicus Curiae without relying on the reports of the

 Bedi Committee and District level Committee. Computation of unlawful /

 illegal mining by each lessee year-wise and lease wise was done by

 comparing the mining plans, scheme of mining and transport permits and

 quantifying: And this Report came to the conclusion that all private lessees had indulged

 in large scale unlawful mining and transportation of BSMs during the pre Page 43 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 ban period from 2000-2001 to 2013-2014. Second Report of Amicus Curiae: 68. The Second Report deals with the period in Phase 2 or the post

 ban period after August-September, 2013. The Second Report of the

 Amicus Curiae, examined the Report of the Sahoo's Committee as regards

 the total stock of raw sand (ROM), semi-processed and processed BSMs

 found in the godowns and other places owned by the various lessees /

 companies. 69. The Second Report concluded that the stocks held by various

 lessees / mining companies after the imposition of the ban in August /

 September, 2013 cannot be based on processing of balance of raw sand

 remaining with the companies at the time of the ban. Therefore the 2nd

 Amicus Report concludes that the stocks held by different mining

 companies at the time of Sahoo Committee enquiry should be held to be

 illegally mined. The Second Report specifically pointed out that many stocks

 of processed minerals (with THM > 90%) belonging to different companies

 were found by DAE - AMD to have monazite concentration beyond the

 threshold value of “> 0.25% Monazite Equivalent” indicating that significant

 quantity of monazite can be extracted from these stocks. Page 44 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Third Report of Amicus Curiae: 70. In this Report, the 'Royalty Settlement Proceedings' approved by

 the District Collectors of Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari

 districts in respect of royalty collected and due to be paid by different mining

 companies for each annual year from 200-2001 till 2015-2016 were studied.

 Fourth Report of Amicus Curiae: 71. The fourth report of Amicus curiae summarises the key findings

 from the reassessment report filed on 27.11.2023 by the 6th Respondent. It

 reports about large scale illegal removal of 16.04 Lakhs MT of beach sand

 minerals by different mining companies during 2018-2022. This report of

 Amicus Curiae dealt with the study of two key issues: Show Cause Notice Issued: 72. The State Government accepted the findings pertaining to illegal Page 45 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 mining, transportation, export and royalty payments on all four reports since

 the findings of Bedi report, Sahoo's report, Reassessment report and

 Amicus Curiae report were on the same lines and the findings correlated

 with each other. Hence, based on the reports and findings, the Government

 after perusing the relevant documents had issued showcase notices

 directing the mining parties to reply as to why Cost of minerals and Royalty

 should not be recovered from them for the quantum of minerals unlawfully

 mined and transported during the pre-ban period in respect of the mining

 leases granted 73. The Cost of Minerals and Royalty to be recovered from the private

 plant owners and ex-lessees for the quantum of beach sand minerals

 unlawfully mined and transported during the pre-ban period works out to the

 tune of Rs.5832.29 Crore. The break up details are as follows: 74. This High Court by Order dated 21.01.2019 had made it clear that

 this Suo Motu PIL covers all BSMs pertaining to alleged illegal

 /unauthorised extraction of minerals, transportation and other associated

 illegal activities. VII. Contentions of the Respondents: 75. The 22nd Respondent claims that his competitors out of rivalry

 have instituted the present PIL. The 8th Respondent claims that they have a

 valid mining lease from the State Government with the previous approval of

 the Central Government as well as Atomic Energy Department. The 8th

 Respondent stated that they have a valid mining plan duly approved by

 Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration (AMD) and the Indian Bureau of

 Mines (IBM) which had approved the scheme of mining also. It was also Page 47 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 stated that they have a valid Environmental Clearance from Ministry of

 Environment and Forest (MoEF&CC) for all its mining leases and that the

 production also is within the limit of EC as well as approved mining/scheme

 of mining and they also stated that they have a valid consent under Air Act

 and Water Act . 76. It was contended that the Amicus Curiae did not highlight any

 violations of the India Rare Earths Limited (IREL), but instead pointed out

 imaginary violations against the 8th Respondent’s mining lease. The 8th

 Respondent further leveled allegations of serious mining violations against

 IREL. It was further contented that the Amicus Curiae did not apply the

 reverse calculation method for the IREL and that he did not prepare chart

 citing violations by IREL. 77. It was contented that the Amicus failed to act impartially and that

 though Amicus discussed about the Bedi report in his volume of charts,

 Amicus did not point out that Bedi committee did not inspect Trichy and

 Madurai Districts. 78. It was further contended that principles of Natural Justice was

 violated only for the 8th Respondent. Inspections of leases belonging to the Page 48 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 24th, 25th and 8th Respondents were conducted based on directions of the

 High Court. However Natural Justice Principles were violated only with

 respect to the 8th Respondent. Further, the 8th Respondent alleges that the

 Amicus failed to point out the illegalities and violations committed by the

 24th and 25th Respondents. The 8th Respondent further contends that the

 Amicus did not collect documents from official government agencies and

 that he did not rely on official data. 79. The 22nd Respondent goes on to level allegations against

 Mr.D.Dhaya Devadas that he had engaged Retired officials to make

 complaint against the 8th Respondent. The 8th Respondent further claims

 that totally 40 allegations were leveled against the company and that all

 allegations were thoroughly enquired and rejected by the State Government

 and reported to the Government of India vide its Principal Secretary letter

 No.7810/MMD2/2011-1 dated 23.07.2013. The 8th Respondent claims that

 IREL colluded with Mr.D.Dhaya Devadas. 80. It was submitted that the Customs Department did not point out

 any irregularities against the 8th Respondent, however it is alleged by the

 latter that the 24th and 25th Respondents export is more than the permit Page 49 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 obtained quantity. 81. The 8th Respondent contended that the Amicus Curiae method of

 calculation of royalty is wrong. This was substantiated by stating that all the

 quantity transported by the 8th Respondent is below the quantity permitted

 by MoEF and permitted by mining plan/scheme of mining and that the

 variation is solely due to replenishable deposits. Further, it was submitted

 that all the quantities were transported with valid permits. 82. Further, it was submitted that the 8th Respondent is permitted to

 produce other minerals from the existing tailings accumulated vide

 competent authority 2nd Respondent letters dated 05.05.2000 and

 05.06.2000, without fresh mining lease and also that the 1st Respondent

 had confirmed the same, vide letter dated 16.08.2000. Hence, based on the

 above said approval letters issued by competent authorities, the 6th and 7th

 Respondents permitted the 8th Respondents to produce minerals from

 existing accumulated tailings available with 8th Respondent. 83. It was contented that the case of Common Cause vs. Union of Page 50 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 India and Others1, is not applicable to the 8th Respondent. The 8th

 Respondent relied on paragraph 129 of the judgment, as follows: 84. It was further contended that the 8th Respondent has not engaged

 in illegal mining. And that with respect to Bedi Committee, the 8th

 Respondent claims it to be not statutorily valid. It was further averred that

 there is no excess stock with respect to 8th Respondent as per Sahoo 1. 2017 (9) SCC 499 Page 51 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Committee report. 85. It was averred by the 8th Respondent that with respect to

 monazite, there are no possibilities for export of monazite as there are no

 countries where thorium is used for any purpose. And that the allegation of

 export of monazite by M/s.V.V. Mineral is wrong. 86. It was also submitted that the reverse calculation method for

 royalty adopted by Amicus is wrong. It was submitted that this calculation is

 not based on physical verification or inspection or seizure by competent

 empowered officials. 87. The 8th Respondent's total sales are 57,71,688 MT. 15,000

 divided by 38,77,391 = 0.0038685 x 57,71,688 = 22327.77 MT of Monazite

 should be available. Whereas the 8th respondent having the following

 quantity of Monazite. This will establish that the reverse calculations are wrong according to the

 analysis report documents of Amicus. Page 52 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 88. The excess quantity is the quantity collected from the already sold

 minerals prior to 2000. So, the reverse calculation method adopted by

 Amicus is defeated by his own analysis documents produced from AMD. 89. Further contentions of the 8th Respondent are that as per Section

 5(2)(b) of MMDR Act, the State Government, cannot grant the mining lease

 without the approved mining plans. Also as per Rule 22(5) of MCR, 1960

 the mining plan should contain the tentative scheme of mining - That means

 the quantity mentioned in the mining plan is only tentative. The quantity and

 annual program are only tentative and the replenishable quantity can be

 collected by the lessee if it is deposited within the lease hold area as

 already decided by the Court in W.A.No.69 of 1998 and W.P.No.5386 of

 1997. As per Rule 22(6) of MCR, 1960 the mining plan once approved will

 be valid for the entire lease period and that 8th Respondent has the valid

 mining plans for all its mines. As per Rule 9(2) of Mineral Conservation and

 Development Rules, 1988 (MCDR, 1988), the Controller General or the

 authorized officer may require the holder of a mining lease to make such

 modification in the mining plan or impose such conditions as he may be

 consider necessary by an order in writing, if such modification or imposition

 of conditions are considered necessary. Accordingly, 8th Respondent has Page 53 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 obtained modified mining plan also for certain lease areas. 90. It was averred that the Government of India, IBM issued separate

 manual for preparation and approval of mining plans after prior inspection.

 So without verification no mining plan will be approved and hence the

 Amicus allegation about mining plan has no basis. 91. The 8th Respondent averred that none of the Act and Rules for

 payment of royalty or mining operation has been violated by the 8th

 respondent. It was submitted that the entire 3rd report of the Amicus is

 without any statutory violation and that this report regarding royalty and his

 enclosures 15A and 15B has no legal value. 92. Regarding Monazite the 8th Respondent contends that the

 percentage of occurrence of monazite in BSMs is a natural phenomenon

 and claims that they have requisite handling license and that they are

 permitted to store the monazite tailings. Based on the aforementioned

 grounds the 8th and 22nd respondent sought for dismissal of this PIL.

 Key Contentions of 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th Respondents: 93. It was mainly submitted that Monazite is a radioactive material Page 54 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 and cannot be clandestinely smuggled across National/International

 borders. Every atomic mineral have traces of radioactive mineral, which

 cannot be separated and that National and International regulators have

 fixed permissible threshold. It was submitted that checkpoints at Airports

 and Harbours are installed with radioactive detectable scanners as per

 International guidelines stipulated by International Atomic Energy Agency

 (IAEA). There is also clear National and International mechanism to monitor

 the movement of radioactive materials including monazite across borders. 94. With regard to allegations of excess mining it was averred that in

 BSM, the presence of percentage of minerals are not certain. Sometimes

 due to tidal action and wind action, the deposits will be more and some time

 there won't be even any deposit. So when excess minerals are got from

 BSM, it is declared before the Lessor. The lessor can either confiscate the

 excess minerals and say it is in excess of the mining plan and hence it

 belongs to the State or royalty can be collected and in the present case the

 lessor has chosen the latter and the royalty collected was audited and duly

 shared between the Centre and the State. Therefore question of evasion

 does not arise. 95. It was submitted that every form of mineral which was exported Page 55 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 have suffered royalty and properly declared. There must be a mismatch in

 the interpretation of quantum of royalty to be collected whether on the ad

 valorem price of Orissa or Tamil Nadu is but a technicality and not evasion. 96. It was submitted that the respondent company was granted lease

 by order dated 01.03.2004 for a period of 30 years for doing Beach Sand

 Mining and pursuant to the mining lease the hundreds of crores of Rupees

 was invested and the mining plan was set up. Further, more than 10,000

 direct and indirect employments were created due to the trade. Further,

 huge amounts of royalty was paid and foreign exchange revenue worth

 hundreds of crores was generated by exporting beach sand minerals.

 Surprisingly the Government of Tamil Nadu vide G.O.Ms.No.318 dated

 25.11.2021 terminated the lease of this respondent prematurely stating that

 Government of India has amended the Atomic Mineral Concession Rules,

 2016. 97. It was averred that the amendment is nothing but a clear case of

 colorable legislation in order to favour Government companies, who are all

 competitors to the petitioner company. There is no reasonable classification

 and object sought to be achieved by the specific amendment. Further there

 is no rational nexus. The beach sand minerals may have minor radioactivity Page 56 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 which cannot be separated and that all are handled by both Government

 and private companies. 98. It was submitted that the ratio laid down in Common cause

 judgment (Supra) which deals about static miserable reserve does not apply

 to the case of BSMs. It was further submitted that the MMDR Act is not a

 control Act but a development oriented Act. 99. It was averred that the repeated criticism of mining of BSM would

 cause environmental issue is a gross generalization without any regard to

 factual aspects. BSM are unique and they are the only mineral which are

 replenishable in nature. The replenishment was also recognised by the

 learned Amicus in his report. The Nagar Committee assigned by

 Department of Atomic Energy also has recognized fact of replenishment. 100. With regard to royalty it was contented that whatever amount

 calculated in whatever means either in the form of royalty towards ROM has

 to be treated as advance royalty. Therefore the entire quantities of mineral

 exported by the respondents are royalty stuffed. And excess royalty amount

 collected in the Department of Geology and Mining is still with the

 Government. Page 57 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Key Contentions of 24th, 25th and 26th Respondents: 101. It was submitted that except one mining lease in favour of Indian

 Garnet Sand Company Private Limited all other mining leases in favour of

 24th and 25th Respondents were cancelled by the State Government by

 orders dated 01.02.2013. The said Orders are impugned in

 W.P.(MD).Nos.2111 to 2115 of 2013. Since transport permits were not

 issued, the lone mining lease was not operational since 2011. Hence, the

 allegation that Amicus Curiae and Committee headed by Mr.Gagandeep

 Singh Bedi, I.A.S., did not deal with the said leases is unjustifiable.

 Key Contentions of the 12th Respondent: 102. It was submitted that the Amicus had used imaginary

 calculations to arrive at the finding that 12th Respondent has carried out

 illegal mining. Further, with respect to quantity transported beyond the

 quantity mined, this respondent submitted that there is no quantity

 restriction either in the MMDR Act or Rules. The quantity mentioned in the

 approved mining plan is tentative for five years that, too for excavated

 quantity vide Rule 22(5)(v) of MCR, 1960. It was further submitted that with

 respect to quantity transported during the period when there was no

 approved scheme of mining, where the period have been lapsed is not Page 58 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 applicable to the 12th Respondent and that they have a valid mining plan as

 well as scheme of mining. Therefore, it was submitted that the entire

 allegation is not applicable to the 12th Respondent.

 Submissions on Behalf of the 4th Respondent: 103. It was submitted that as per the guidelines of the mining

 plan/scheme of mining, the lessee has to establish proved reserves for

 atleast five years period to commensurate with the tentative proposals

 furnished in the mining plan/scheme of mining. So, the extraction of the

 mineral cannot be beyond the proved reserves established at that time.

 Further submission of Scheme of Mining, the reserves has to be re-

 established by way of additional exploration, considering the depth factor.

 The lessee has to carry out the mining operations in accordance with the

 approved mining plan/scheme of mining which includes approved quantity in

 the mining plan. Contrary to this, attracts the violation of Rule 13(1) of

 Mineral Conservation and Development Rules, 1988, i.e. deviation in the

 approved mining plan. 104. It was further submitted that the mining plan or scheme of mining

 is being approved with proposals of production for five years period. The

 lessee should extract the mineral within the permissible limits and get Page 59 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 permits for that quantity only. Any demand for excess quantities of mineral

 that can only be extracted with proper prior approvals. The modifications

 also for the remaining period of the approved mining plan/scheme of mining.

 The lessee cannot extract the mineral as per the whims and fancies and

 later approach the Indian Bureau of Mines extending the approval of mining

 plan/scheme of mining from the date of approval i.e. Prospective not

 retrospective. Submissions on Behalf of the 2nd Respondent: 105. The 2nd Respondent submitted that Monazite, which is (greenish

 yellow) phosphate mineral containing rare earth metals, is an important

 source of thorium, lanthanum and cerium. Thorium has been recognised as

 (another) radioactive nuclear material for producing energy indigenously

 and that India is now progressing steadily towards a Thorium based nuclear

 program. Thorium based program has the potential to support energy

 security in long term. Monazite is a principal source of Thorium and Indian

 Rare Earths Limited (IREL) is a leading supplier of Monazite in the country.

 It was stated that none other than IREL is allowed to process Monazite. Page 60 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 106. It was submitted that India's nuclear development plans are

 crucially dependent on Thorium based development. This is recognised in

 the IAEA Report. Also the world's reserve of monazite is estimated to be in

 the range of 12 Million Tons of which nearly 8 Million Tons occur with the

 heavy minerals in the beach sands of India in the States of Kerala, Tamil

 Nadu, Andra Pradesh and Orissa. 107. It was submitted that since Monazite is important for our

 Country’s nuclear requirements, as a policy decision, no private players is

 allowed to process Monazite but are allowed only to store them as per the

 directives issued by the AERB. Also no private players is allowed to crack

 Monazite from the Monazite enriched tailings as it results in highly

 radioactive thorium and uranium and are vulnerable to leaching. With

 respect to atomic minerals under MMDR Act , for the purpose of grant of

 mining lease by the State Government for such minerals like Illemenite,

 Rutile, Zircon, Leucoxene, permission is to be obtained from the Central

 Government / DAE. 108. It was also submitted that AMD has not approved any mining

 plan for monazite in favour of 8th Respondent (M/s.V.V.Mineral). It was also

 averred that as per AMD records, 10 mining plans were transferred to 15th Page 61 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Respondent (M/s.Industrial Minerals Company). These mining plans do not

 include monazite mining. Further AMD has not approved any mining plan in

 Tamil Nadu in favour of 9th Respondent (M/s.Transworld Garnet India Pvt.

 Ltd.). 109. The 2nd Respondent also submitted that no permission was

 granted to the State Government for inclusion of monazite in the mining

 lease granted to private party and if at all any mining lease is granted by

 including Monazite to any private party, the same is without the sanction of

 the Central government and amounts to violation of Act and Rules. 110. It was contended that the Respondents 8 and 22 have stated

 that they have not carried out any estimate for monazite as they are not

 permitted to handle the same and hence no information has been furnished

 on the estimated reserves of Monazite. However, they have furnished the

 total quantity of monazite rich tailings for the period from 2007 to 2016 as

 80,725.05 M.T. The respondents further have stated that they have never

 personally assessed the Monazite content in the feed material but provided

 the data based on the AMD's (Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration

 and Research – a Unit of the second respondent) report of the second

 respondent and furnished the percentage of monazite content with respect Page 62 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 to each of their mine numbering 34 specifically given in the tabular format

 (Page Nos.9 to 13 of their letter dated 04.12.2016). Further in page number

 14, they have furnished the total ROM (Run of Mine) collected from each of

 their mine numbering 34 (Page Nos.14 to 16). 111. Based on the above data furnished by the respondents 8 and 22,

 approximate quantity of monazite computed and furnished in a tabular

 format. Based on the data furnished by the Respondents, it is seen that the

 data on grade of monazite in the mining lease areas with reference to

 AMD's reports vis-à-vis the monazite resources is computed as 5876 M.T.

 covering 34 mining lease areas of the respondents 8 and 22, whereas the

 total quantity of monazite computed based on the data submitted by the

 Respondents 8 and 22 regarding quantity of tailings from 2007 to 2016 is

 23,461M.T. Hence, there is a mismatch as seen from the above regarding

 computed monazite resource. 112. It was submitted that as regards, excessive mining carried out by

 private lessees, which are found to be higher than the quantity approved by

 the mining plan (IBM/AMD) on the basis that the lessee has a valid mining

 lease and the land is owned by the lessee and advance royalty is paid and

 the sanctity of approved plan: Page 63 of 238 113. It was submitted that during processing of the raw sand,

 monazite, which is radioactive in nature, gets distributed and progressively

 concentrated in various process streams and becomes potential source of

 radiation exposure. Therefore, for radiological safety considerations, AERB

 issued guidelines for safe management of monazite tailings under Atomic

 Energy (Radiation Protection) Rules, 2004 in order to avoid any undue

 radiation exposure to workers and general public. Accordingly, the facilities

 were either required to store the monazite tailings in pits within premises Page 65 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 under their institutional control topped with non-radioactive silica sand or

 were required to backfill the mined-out sites after mixing with silica sand

 such that radiation level remained comparable to natural background

 radiation of the region. Nevertheless, besides being radioactive substance,

 monazite contains thorium and uranium which is notified as prescribed

 substance under the Act, control of which solely rests with the Department

 of Atomic Energy. DAE has all the enabling powers to acquire prescribed

 substance under the Act. Submissions on Behalf of the 1st Respondent: 114. The 1st Respondent submitted that as per Entry 23 of List II

 (State List) the State Governments have powers for; “Regulation of mines

 and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to

 regulation and development under the control of the union”. 115. The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) (MMDR)

 Act, 1957 was enacted by the Parliament. Section 2 of the MMDR Act, 1957

 is the statement of declaration of expediency which states as follows: 116. With the said declaration the Union has taken under its control

 the regulation of mines and development of minerals to the extent specified

 in the said MMDR Act, 1957 . The MMDR Act 1957, inter-alia, provides for

 procedures to grant mineral concessions, regulate mining activities and

 provisions for mineral development in the country. Two sets of Rules have

 been framed by the Ministry of Mines under the MMDR Act as follows: 117. It was submitted that State Governments grant mineral

 concessions. The statutory provision under section 5(1) of the MMDR Act,

 1957 with regard to grant of mining leases prior to 12th January, 2015

 required obtaining previous approval of the Central Government for grant of Page 67 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 mineral concessions for a mineral specified in the first schedule of the MMDR Act, 1957 . For the purposes of MMDR Act, 1957 , ilmenite, rutile,

 leucoxene, zircon, and monazite are specified as ' Part B Atomic Minerals' in

 the First Schedule to the MMDR Act, 1957 . Garnet and Sillimanite are not

 specified in Part B of the First Schedule. Obtaining previous approval of the

 Central Government for grant of mining leases in respect of garnet and

 sillimanite is not required. 118. It was submitted that the issue of illegal mining is the subject

 matter of State Government. State Governments are in charge of law and

 order. State Governments have been empowered under section 23-C of

 MMDR Act, 1957 to curb illegal mining by framing Rules for preventing

 illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals. The revisionary

 jurisdiction of the Central Government is also banned in respect of orders

 passed by State Governments under section 23-C. 119. It was further submitted that the Central Government also took

 cognizance of the emerging situation, a need was felt to look into the matter

 holistically in the interest of regulation of mineral development and for

 conservation of mineral resources of strategic significance. Page 68 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 120. Pursuant thereto, the entire export of BSM has been now

 canalised through Indian Rare Earth Limited since 21.08.2018 for which

 monazite test certification from Atomic Mineral Directorate [AMD] has been

 made mandatory. Furthermore, Central Government revised the threshold

 value of BSM from 0.75% to 0.00% [zero percent] Monazite content in Total

 Heavy Mineral vide G.S.R.No.134(E) dated 20.02.2019. That pursuant to

 the notification dated 20.02.2019, and in exercise of powers conferred under Section 4A(1) of the MMDR Act, 1957 and also after consultation with the

 State Governments, the Ministry of Mines vide order dated 01.03.2019

 decided to prematurely terminate all the existing mineral concession of BSM

 held by private persons/companies in the Country in the interest of

 regulation of mines and mineral development and conservation of mineral

 resources and directed the respective State Government(s) to take

 necessary action as per the provisions of Section 4A(1) and 4A(3) of the

 MMDR Act, 1957. Key Contentions of the State Government: 121. It was contented that based on reports of illicit mining, pursuant

 to the direction issued by the State Government in G.O.Ms.No.156,

 Industries Department dated 08.08.2013 and G.O.Ms.No.173, Industries

 Department dated 17.09.2013, the Special Team conducted extensive field Page 69 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 visits in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari Districts in the month of

 August, October and November, 2013 and intensively examined all mining

 and related issues. The special team head was assisted by a Core team

 consisting of 4 District Revenue Officers, 2 Joint Directors of Survey, 1 Joint

 Director of Geology Mining and 1 Additional Chief Environmental Engineer.

 This Core team coordinated the inspections of all the 64 leases granted in

 Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari and assisted in the preparation

 of reports. 122. It was reported by the Special Team Head that the procedures laid down by the High Court dated 12.12.2013 in W.P.(MD).No.1233 of

 2013, etc., batch cases were scrupulously followed. As directed by the

 Court, representations were received and notices were given to concerned

 parties. To ensure the principles of natural justice, all concerned were given

 an opportunity to put forth their contention in writing to the special team. The

 claims and counter claims were examined in detail and conscious decision

 was taken based on merits and based on unassailable and impeccable

 evidences gathered from fields. The same were substantiated and

 strengthened by field report/photographs/ survey maps. The report

 pertaining to Thoothukudi District was filed before this Court on 20.09.2016

 and two other reports pertaining to Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari Districts Page 70 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 were filed before this Court on 11.01.2017. All the three reports revealed

 that a total quantity of 1,01,14,239 MT of raw sand (1.01 Crore MT) had

 been illegally mined and transported over an extent of 234.55.0 Hectares of

 non leased out areas in three districts. 123. Further, with regard to the Amicus Curiae’s report it was

 submitted that the Learned Amicus Curiae's report is based on the data

 collected from the District Collector of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and

 Kanniyakumari on the quantum of Beach Sand minerals permitted to be

 transported by the district officials of Department of Geology and Mining in

 Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts for the period from

 2000-01 to 2013-14 (pre-ban period).The report submitted by learned

 Amicus curiae is based on the details of mining plans and scheme of mining

 approved by Indian Bureau of Mines with reference to non-atomic minerals

 namely Garnet and Sillimanite. 124. It was averred that the minerals not permitted for production in

 the approved mining plan/scheme of mining were treated as unlawfully

 mined and transported one. Further none of the private respondents had

 submitted scheme of mining for approval of the Atomic Minerals Directorate

 in respect of Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon and Leucoxene. Page 71 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 125. It was submitted that the Taluk level and District level

 committees constituted by the Government are Fact finding committees to

 look into the complaints on illegal BSM and transportation of BSMs and for

 taking appropriate action by the authorities concerned. The mechanism

 devised by the Government for constitution of Taluk level committees and

 District level committees are very much within the ambit of State

 Government as, State is vested with powers for preventing illegal mining,

 transportation and storage of minerals. 126. Also it was found that royalty accounts in respect of

 M/s.V.V.Mineral and M/s.Transworld Garnet Private Limited were settled for

 the period from 2008-2009 to 2011-2012 by erroneously computing royalty

 for the quantum of raw sand transported under Rule 64B(2) of MCR, 1960.

 It was further found that Royalty was not fixed for the quantum of processed

 Garnet, Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon, Sillimanite and Leucoxene sold/ exported on

 ad-valorem basis for the period from 2008-2009 to 2011-2012 as required

 under Rule 64-D of MCR, 1960. It was further found that, as Royalty

 accounts were settled improperly, by computing royalty for the quantum of

 Raw sand transported and it was contrary to the provisions of Rule 64-D of

 MCR 1960, it was decided by the District level committee that the royalty Page 72 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 accounts were not settled in accordance with the guidelines specified under

 the Rule 64-D of MCR, 1960 and therefore the royalty accounts settled for

 the period are to be treated as null and void. VIII. Legal Issues: 127. The following legal issues arise for determination in this matter: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (13)Whether the Royalty accounts settled by the District Collectors

 by computing Royalty for Quantum of Raw sand transported

 without computing Royalty on ad valorem basis for the BSM

 exported is valid in law? (14)Whether the Royalty accounts settled by the District Collector

 of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari by computing

 Royalty for raw sand transported by applying Rule 64B(2) of

 MCR, 1960 in respect of M/s.V.V.Mineral (R8) and

 M/s.Transworld Garnet India Private Limited. (R9) and

 M/s.Industrial Mineral India Private Limited (R13) and without

 computing Royalty on ad valorem basis for the actual quantum

 of minerals sold / exported under the provisions of Section 9(2) read with Second Schedule of the MMDR Act and Rule 64-D of

 MCR, 1960 unsettled by the State Government in the light of

 third report of the Amicus, is legally valid? (15) Whether there is a need for a comprehensive investigation

 into the role of officials involved in the backdrop of the findings

 in the Committee reports and Amicus reports? Page 76 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 128. The issues as framed are categorised below into four core

 sections, with further sub-classifications, to enable an in-depth analysis: 4.2 Discrepancies in the Details of Mineral Export 138 4.3 Action Required 140 4.4 Challenge to Public Notice No.50 of 2016 141 (B) Monazite 142 (1) Presence of Monazite in the Coastal Beaches of 142
 Tamil Nadu 1.1 Monazite – Prescribed Substance 143 1.2 Policy Decision of DAE on Monazite 145 (2) Monazite Enriched Tailings 147 2.1 Handling Licences Mandatory for Handling 148 Page 78 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 S.No. CONTENTS Page
 No.
 Monazite Tailings
 2.2 Presence of Monazite Enriched Tailings in the 151
 Leased Out Mines
 2.3 Accounting for Monazite Enriched Tailings 152
 2.4 Discrepancy in Raw Sand actually declared 153
 and the Actual Fact as disclosed from
 Monazite Tailings 2.5 Reverse Calculation Method 154 2.6 Total Quantity of Monazite that can be 160 extracted from stocks available with
 M/s.V.V.Mineral which are > 0.25% Monazite
 Equivalent 2.7 Monazite Tailings Yard 165 2.8 Mismatch in Figures of Monazite Tailings 166
 submitted by the Respondent Companies
 2.9 Stocks belonging to Mining Companies have 167
 Monzite Concentration beyond the threshold
 value
 (3) Whether State Government is Empowered to add 169
 Monazite and other Atomic Minerals to the
 Existing Mining Leases without prior approval of
 the Central Government? 3.1 Is approval required for grant of Mining Lease 171
 pertaining to other Atomic Minerals? (A) Illegal Mining, Storage, Transportation and Exports of BSMs: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 There are two major sets of Rules under this Act - The Mineral Concession

 Rules, 1960 and the Mineral Conservation and Development Rules, 1988

 (MCDR). 136. In the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, beach sand minerals are

 referred to as 'Associated Minerals'. Rule 69(x) of the Mineral Concession

 Rules, 1960, defines 'Associated Minerals' as “Temenite, Monazite, Zircon,

 Rutile; Leucoxene, Garnet and Sillimanite”. Leucoxene was added to this list

 of associated minerals in 2000. 137. Part B of Schedule I of the MMDR Act specifies the minerals that

 are classified as Atomic Minerals. Out of the 7 BSM Minerals (Garnet,

 Sillimanite, Rutile, Ilmenite, Zitcon, Leucoxene and Monazite), Rutile,

 Ilmenite, Zircon, Leucoxene and Monazite are atomic minerals while Garnet

 and Sillimanite are not. Therefore for the mining of Garnet and Sillimanite

 alone, the relevant authority to approve the Mining Plan is the Indian Bureau

 of Mines (IBM) while for Rutile, Ilmenite, Zircon, Leucoxene and Monazite,

 which are classified as Atomic minerals as they have radioactivity, the

 authority to approve the Mining Plan is the Atomic Minerals Directorate

 (AMD). Page 84 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 138. However, with effect from 11.07.2016, an amendment has been

 made to Part B of the I Schedule of the MMDR Act, and a 12th entry was

 added to it. This entry reads as follows - “Beach Sand Minerals, that is, economic
 heavy minerals found in the teri or beach sands,
 which include, Imenite, Rutile, Leucoxene, Garnet;
 Monazite, Zircon and Sillimanite.”

 Hence with effect from 11.07.2016 ,all Beach Sand Minerals including
 Garnet and Sillimanite are classified as Atomic Minerals. 139. The granting of mining lease can be divided into four parts: 1.3 Legal Position Governing Mining Plans: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 142. More pertinently, in the Bedi Committee Report on findings in

 Tirunelveli District, The lessees have, in some leases, obtained lease for

 patches of lands instead of continuous lands by leaving many Survey Field

 Numbers in between. In many leases, not only the lands covered under

 lease were mined, but also, the intervening non-leased lands had also been

 mined. There is no field boundary between sub-divisions and also between

 Survey Field Numbers. It seems that for record purpose alone, leases have

 been split up and applied for separately to avoid getting clearance from the

 Ministry of Environment and Forest Department, Government of India. 143. The Amicus Curiae report also deliberates on the issue of

 approval of mining plans in cases where claims of replenishment of

 reserves of beach sand are of a very high order. The extent and quantum of

 illegal mining done is humongous and the bandwidth to commit this illegality

 and the resources both monetary and human, employed to dodge the legal

 mechanisms is staggering. The AC report further states instances where

 mining lessees in the absence of scheme of mining had continued to mine

 and transport minerals unlawfully. This can be found from the data provided

 by the AMD. So even after the expiry of extended period of lease , no

 scheme of mining was submitted to the AMD for seeking approval. Further,

 as per Bedi report illicit mining for an extent of 89.67 Acres was reported in Page 87 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Government poromboke and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments

 (HR&CE) lands to a quantity of 17,08,292 MT. The reports also carry

 specific instances of violations of conditions stipulated in the Mining lease.

 1.5 Challenge to the Constitution of Bedi's Committee: These Writ Appeals were connected along with Suo Motu PIL and heard

 together. The validity of the G.Os under challenge and formation of the

 Committee has been elaborately dealt with in the writ appeals. Page 88 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 1.6 Allegations of Bias against Mr.Gagandeep Singh Bedi, I.A.S: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 147. Moreover, as the then Collector of Kanniyakumari District, illicit

 sand lorries and trucks were seized by the revenue officials under his

 instruction. These actions per se cannot pave way to cement the argument

 of bias against Chairperson of the committee. 148. An analysis of these allegations showcases that he had only

 acted in the course of performance of his official function and does not

 indicate a personal or pecuniary bias on his part. Hence to throw away the

 entire enquiry proceedings on these irrelevant allegations that too raised

 much belatedly does not find any merit. Moreover the respondents herein

 had initially submitted representations and their contentions before the

 committee without any objection, it was only at a later stage that suddenly

 this argument of bias was raised at the time of filing of the Writ petition in

 2014. This raises several questions as to the genuinity in the submissions of

 respondents in raising the plea of bias against the appellants. Also it paves

 way for a fair surmise that the respondents have waived their right to object

 the appointment of the Chairperson of the Committee. Furthermore the

 accusations of the respondents against the Chairperson does not reflect any

 direct or indirect nor personal or pecuniary interest in the subject matter of

 inspection. Page 90 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 149. At the outset the allegations have no direct bearing on the

 inspection conducted and is too far fetched an argument to be coloured with

 bias. 150. Furthermore, relying on vague allegations of bias stemming from

 events that is said to have happened years ago without substantial

 reasoning cannot be a valid argument. There must be an actual bias or

 reasonable likelihood of bias. To sustain a plea of bias, there must be

 cogent, uncontroversial and undisputed material, and the court cannot go by

 vague, whimsical and capricious suspicion. 151. Moreover the test of 'real likelihood of bias' ought to be applied in

 the instant case and this test can be applied in tandem with “fair-minded

 and informed observer” standard test. This can be elaborated further by

 the following explanation; To disqualify a person from adjudicating on the

 ground of interest in the subject matter of lis, the test of real likelihood of the

 bias is to be applied. In other words, one has to enquire as to whether there

 is real danger of bias on the part of the person against whom such

 apprehension is expressed in the sense that he might favour or disfavour a

 party. In each case, the Court has to consider whether a fair minded and Page 91 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 informed person, having considered all the facts would reasonably

 apprehend that the Judge would not act impartially. 152. Both the above tests have been applied effectively across

 various decisions rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. As detailed

 elaborately in the case of P.D.Dinakaran (1) vs. Judges Inquiry

 Committee and Others2 , both these tests ought to be applied in tandem to

 effectuate a viable result. It is important to establish a real likelihood of bias

 rather than mere apprehensions and suspicions. Also the “fair minded and

 informed observer test” rests a notch higher than the 'reasonable man test'

 thereby raising the bar of assessment. This also paves way for a case to

 case analysis of the 'rule against bias' thereby ensuring compliance of the

 principles of natural justice. 153. It is also pertinent to note that the Committee consists of 230

 Government officials from across various departments and is not a single

 man committee. Further, it is not an adjudicatory committee, but an

 inspection committee, whose duty is refrained to conducting inspection and

 verification of reports on illegal beach sand mining along the coast. Hence,

 the final decision making authority is the Government. Thereby to insinuate 2. (2011) 8 SCC 380 Page 92 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 charges of bias against the Committee that too long after the

 commencement of the inquiry is highly unwarranted and irrelevant

 considering the nature of proceedings in hand. 1.7 Powers of Inspection Under Section 24 OF MMDR Act: 155. So the section explicitly lays down the power of entry and

 inspection in the mines. Nowhere does it specify the need for prior notice to

 inspect. In the absence of provision to issue notice, the contention raised by

 the Respondents mining companies that prior notice must be issued finds

 no merit. Moreover an inspection cannot be termed as ‘surprise inspection’

 if prior notice is issued. That would defeat the very definition of ‘surprise

 inspection’. Therefore when the Act is clear in its terms, no new

 meaning/procedures can be accorded to it. 156. Hence, the vires of the G.O.Ms.No.156, Industries (MMD.1)

 Department dated 08.08.2013 and G.O.Ms.No.173, Industries (MMD.1)

 Department dated 17.09.2013 stands undefeated and ought to considered

 valid in the eyes of the law, thereby making the appointment of Bedi

 Committee legally sustainable. Page 94 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 157. It is pertinent to note that the Special team under Mr.Bedi was

 entrusted with the task of inspecting and verifying the allegations of illicit

 mining in the said BSM lease sites in terms of Section 24 of MMDR Act. The

 Special team conducted field visits in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and

 Kanniyakumari districts in the months of August, October and November

 2013. 158. The sites have not only been checked by independent teams of

 Revenue, Survey, Environment and Forests, Geology and Mining

 departments but also super checked further on by independent teams of

 officials of these departments. The Secretary, revenue department and the

 Core members have further verified the observations through extensive site

 visits. 1.8 Methodology Adopted by the Committees to Inspect and Verify the

 Extent and Quantum of Illegal Mining: Thereafter another random sub team is selected to do a Super check of the

 mining site and present their report of findings. Few other members of the

 Core team would then visit the site and record their findings and then would

 be reconciled with the findings of the Check and Super check teams. 160. Through this triangulation method there is three layer inspection

 and cross checks to ensure a fool proof system of verification. And

 ultimately when findings made through three checks and super checks

 correlates with each other it becomes a Fact. So it is not a case of one

 person visiting the site randomly and conducting inspections but these are

 expert teams and, after first check another two super checks were carried

 out to cull out the actual numbers and facts relevant to the inspection. This

 is more of a scientific method of inspection being employed which was

 carefully organised to ensure impartiality and objectivity throughout the

 process. 161. It is worthwhile to note that the Respondent mining company at

 no point in time has disputed the findings on the illegal mining at any place. Page 96 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 They have not denied the action of illegal mining. The two points of

 contention on their side has always been that the Committees are biased

 and in terms of Sahoo Committee and Amicus reports, they have

 questioned the reverse calculation method. But this Court finds no merit in

 both these contentions. The random bias allegations against a committee

 not only comprising of Mr. Bedi but around 230 officials who are involved in

 this process, cannot be termed to operate as a single man committee. 162. Moreover, what makes the Committee reports stand good is the

 fact that all the Four Committee Report findings in one way or the other

 concur with each other. Even the Respondent mining company are not

 disputing the fact of illegal mining having taken place. Instead the

 contentions of Respondent companies are only in the lines of the calculation

 method adopted. In terms of reverse calculation method adopted, the

 difference in the raw sand quantum is so enormous that it is hard to throw

 away this calculation method. It is a form of logical deduction and the DAE

 has also accepted the finding of the Amicus Curiae to this effect. They have

 accepted the specific finding in the AC report that the leftover monazite is in

 a huge number and that it requires much more raw sand than what has

 been actually declared by the private lessees. Page 97 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 163. Further, a careful scrutiny of all these reports show scientific

 method of inspection and calculations being done scrupulously by team

 comprising of hundreds of officials from both Central and State

 governments. When the findings are in tune with one another , the findings

 on the reports becomes a fact. 164. The methodology adopted by the Bedi Committee as explained

 in the report submitted by them and the procedure adopted by them on

 scrutiny, appears fair and there has been elaborate surveys by teams of

 officers from different department with careful checks and super checks of

 the lease sites and further cross checks were also conducted. Furthermore,

 the State Government had accepted the report submitted by Mr.Bedi. 165. Also the Amicus Curiae appointed by this Court had made an

 independent study without relying on the reports of the Bedi Committee. He

 has relied on primary data analysis whereby data on the BSM mining from

 the years 1998-1999 was provided to him on the directions of this court. A

 pro forma table carrying the basic information on mining lease by various

 official agencies was created. The approach adopted by the Amicus was to

 create a Comprehensive table including varied information about mining

 leases in three district provided by the IBM, AMD, Department of Geology Page 98 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 and Mining, Customs department and District officials. The information

 collected from different agencies was then put into one single Consolidated,

 Comprehensive Chart which contained all the relevant information about

 each mine in a single chart. As a reference material the AC had referred to

 other reports which carried material on field inspections but the findings of

 the AC report essentially relied on primary data analysis . 166. The methodology evolved for studying the total scale of illegal

 mining relied totally on information about transportation permits, mining

 plans and sales of BSM complied from data provided by official agencies of

 Central and State Government: 167. The data gathered was cross checked with the data about

 Mining/Transportation and Sales given by the private Mining Companies to

 Government agencies. The entire data was compiled, analysed and Page 99 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 thereafter provided in the form of consolidated charts which showed the

 compiled information in the following ways: 168. As all the charts in Volume 4 of Amicus report show, each

 Mining lease - chart also shows the approval given by (a) IBM for mining of

 raw sand and BSMs in the case of Garnet and Sillimanite and (b) AMD in

 the case of Atomic minerals like Ilmenite, Rutile, Leucoxene and Zircon for

 each mining period of 5 years for each of the 64 mining leases in the three

 districts. Full details of the proceedings are also provided by way of

 proceedings number, date etc. 169. The collected data and its analysis were presented in a single

 chart as available in Volume 4, which the Government Departments as well

 private mining companies could easily cross-check and verify the data

 presented in each chart year-wise from 2000-2001 to 2015-2016 and point

 out to any error of wrong calculation. Page 100 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 170. It is to be pointed out that none of the party respondents both

 Government agencies as also the private mining companies, have raised

 any dispute regarding any of the year-wise data presented. The State

 Government fully accepted the data compilation and Central Government

 also agreed with the findings. 171. None of the private party respondents have shown any mistake

 or discrepancies in the methodology adopted by the Amicus or the

 calculations leading to the quantum of unlawful/illegal mining and

 transportation of ROM and BSMs. The objections, if at all very generic and

 do not repudiate the methodology or the findings. 172. A Three-way method of computing the quantum of illegally

 mined and transported raw sand (ROM) and BSMs was formulated. These

 were

 (1) Quantity transported in excess of quantity of raw sand / BSM

 permitted to be produced as per approved mining plan/ Scheme of Mining

 (2) BSM transported is not an approved mineral in the mining plan. be

 noted. (3) Transportation of raw sand / BSMs during period when there is no Page 101 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 valid Scheme of mining. 173. It can be noted that quantum of ROM/BSMs quantified for all

 mining lessees is based on objective, rational and replicable methodology.

 The above method of identifying what constitutes illegal mining was

 explained by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Common Cause 's case cited

 supra, as follows: 174. Through the study of the primary data and based on various Page 102 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 other documents and records, the Amicus report concluded in essence

 that all the private lessees in the three district had indulged in large

 scale unlawful mining and transportation of BSMs during the period

 from 2000-01 to 2013-14 (pre-ban period). The company wise data on

 illegal transportation of raw sand and minerals is available in the

 Comprehensive First Report filed by the Amicus. 1.9 Extent and Quantum of Illegal BSMs in Three Districts – Pre-Ban

 Period: 177. Thus, cumulatively the Special Committee reported illicit mining

 of BSM in the three districts amounting to the following quantity: 178. Further information about the scale of illegal and unlawful mining

 of BSMs in the three districts surfaces from an analysis of data gathered

 from IBM Annual Yearbooks, Customs Department, Thoothukudi port and

 District Transport Departments. The summary of key findings as available in

 the Amicus Curiae report is as follows: 1.11 Post Ban Period – Illicit Beach Sand Mining: M/s.Transworld Garnet, R9 - 16.31 Lakh Tonnes; BMC, R10/17, 64.40 Lakh

 Tonnes, IMC, R15 - 25.58 Lakh Tonnes and IOGS, R20 - 4.20 Lakh tonnes.

 Also the total quantum of BSM stored by Plant owners/lease holders at

 various places in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari as

 assessed by the Special Team is to the extent of 1,55,48,680 MT.

 Whereas the total quantum of BSM declared as stocks by the Plant

 owners/lease holders in respect of three districts are to the extent of

 85,58,734 MT. Thus there is a massive difference to the tune of

 69,89,946 Mts between quantum of BSMs assessed by Special Team

 and the quantum of BSMs declared as stocks by the lessees. 181. The Second Amicus Curiae Report concluded that the stocks

 held by various lessees / mining companies after the imposition of the ban

 in August / September, 2013 cannot be based on processing of balance of

 raw sand remaining with the companies at the time of the ban. Therefore,

 the 2nd Amicus Report concluded that the stocks held by different mining Page 107 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 companies at the time of Sahoo Committee enquiry should be held to be

 illegally mined. Subsequently, there were again reports of illegal mining and transportation

 of BSMs from the sealed premises and a reassessment of the BSM stocks

 stored at various places in the three districts originally assessed by the

 Sahoo team was ordered. The reassessment was carried out by the District

 Collectors of Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari and vide letters

 dated 08.12.2022, 01.12.2022 and 21.01.2023, their respective reports were

 forwarded to the State Government. 1.12 Difference in the Stocks Kept in the Three Districts: assessment of Beach Sand Minerals stocked in the three districts revealed

 that a total quantity of 1,40,57,926.84 M.T. Of BSM stocks were kept at

 various places in the three Districts. Further, it is found that there is a short

 fall in the quantum of BSM stocks kept with various plant owners in the Page 108 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 three Districts to the tune of 16.04 Lakhs M.T. Computing to 10.69% of total

 stock. Apart from that it is found that an additional stock of 6,62,191.02M.T

 of BSM stocks were kept with the plant owners at various places in the three

 Districts. 183. Further the reassessment report reveal an alarming

 presence of Monazite kept in the additional stocks of the Plant owners

 at various places. The report states that monazite to the tune of

 6,448.362 MT in the semi-processed stocks of 4,83,198.255 kept by

 plant owners in three districts is a matter of serious concern. 184. The Respondent mining companies in their counter affidavit to

 the findings of the reports primarily failed to provide satisfactory answers.

 The 8th Respondent predominantly attacks the formation of the Committees

 or raises allegations against the officers involved in the process but

 ultimately inspite of four different and elaborate reports submitted by the

 teams comprising of top most officials in the State Government, the

 Respondents failed to reply to the findings on the massive scale of illegal

 mining. The contention of the Respondents 8/22 does not address the

 veracity of the findings nor could they disprove the evidence backed

 findings, rather they are trying to question the very act of ordering the Page 109 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 inspection of the mining sites. 185. However, this argument cannot be accepted as when allegations

 of illegal mining are levelled time and again over a period of time on

 particular lease sites, it is the duty of the State Government to appoint

 committees to inspect and verify the truth of these allegations. To ascertain

 the position of the working of a mine, any person authorised by the Central

 Government or the State Government, by general order, may enter and

 inspect the mining site. The powers of the State to take action on complaints

 of illegal mining and transportation cannot be questioned. The Respondent

 companies instead of giving replies to the nature and substance of findings

 against them are only on the point of very formation of committee to conduct

 inspection. 186. It is hard to overlook all these findings in the committee reports

 submitted before this Court. At this point it is also pertinent to note that

 the State Government has accepted the findings on illegal mining and

 transportation in the reports filed by all the above committees and it is

 also a relevant point that the findings of all these reports are in

 conformity with each other. The common thread that runs through

 these reports connects on a singular point that establishes a Page 110 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 conclusion of illegal mining having taken place across the lease sites

 of the Respondent mining companies in the three coastal districts of

 Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari. The allegations of

 massive illicit mining across these districts have found the support in

 the Bedi report, Sahoo report, the Amicus Curiae report and the

 Reassessment report. Hence this Court finds it hard to brush aside the

 committee reports and a careful scrutiny of the data, evidence ,

 methodology and findings in these reports makes this Court arrive at

 the conclusive decision that massive scale of illegal mining has taken

 place as mentioned in the reports. 1.13 Action Under Section 4 of MMDR Act: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 191. The Nine Judges Constitution Bench of the Hon'be Supreme

 Court of India in the case of Mineral Area Development Authority and

 Another vs. Steel Authority of India and Another3 . Considered the

 principles relating to premature termination of prospecting licence by the

 Union and State Governments as public trustees of mineral resources. 192. Paragraphs 64, 65 and 142 of the judgment in Mineral Area

 Development Authority 's case cited supra reiterates the principles as

 under: 3. (2024) 10 SCC 1 Page 113 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (vii) conservation of mineral resources; and (viii) maintaining safety in the mines or for such other
 purposes4. Moreover, the MMDR Act now mandates grant
 of mining leases, [ MMDR Act , Section 10-B ]
 exploration licences, [ MMDR Act , Section 10-BA ] and
 composite licences [ MMDR Act , Section 11 ] in
 respect of notified minerals through the process of
 auction. The Central Government is empowered to
 prescribe the terms and conditions subject to which
 the auction shall be conducted. 65. The regulatory regime under the MMDR Act recognises the important role of the State in regulating
 mines and mineral development. This emerges from
 the standpoint of the following perspectives: A : (SCC p. 420, para 7)“7. … was enacted with a view to improve the efficiency in this regard and
 with this view directs consultation between the Central Government and the State Government.
 The two Governments have to consider whether premature termination of a particular mining lease
 shall advance the object or not, and must, therefore, take into account all considerations relevant to
 the issue, with reference to the lease in question.” Page 114 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 bearing in mind the public interest; and (v) the Government has to ensure that mineral
 concessions are granted in a fair and transparent
 manner. .... 142. The word “regulate” is of wide import and
 the breadth of its meaning depends on the context in
 which it is used. This Court has construed the power
 to regulate to include the power to: Thus, the expression “regulation” appearing in List I
 Entry 54 and List II Entry 23 must also receive a wide
 meaning, in keeping with the principle that the words
 used in the legislative entries must be interpreted
 broadly.”
 Hence, the premature termination of mining leases by the State

 Government is in consonance with the provisions of the MMDR Act and the

 Rules framed thereunder. 5. State of T.N. v. Hind Stone , (1981) 2 SCC 205, para 10; State of U.P. v. Dharmander Prasad
 Singh , (1989) 2 SCC 505, para 52 6. Talcher Municipality v. Talcher Regulated Market Committee , (2004) 6 SCC 178, para 14; Union
 of India v. Asian Food Industries Ltd. , (2006) 13 SCC 542, para 43 7. U.P. Coop. Cane Unions Federations v. West U.P. Sugar Mills Assn. , (2004) 5 SCC 430, para
 20; Balmer Lawrie & Co. Ltd v. Partha Sarathi Sen Roy , (2013) 8 SCC 345, para 24 : (2013) 3 SCC
 (Civ) 804 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 114 8. Subramanian Swamy v. State of T.N. , (2014) 5 SCC 75, para 67 : (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 134 Page 115 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (2) Illegal Processing: concentration plant and this pre-concentrated sand is then separated

 depending upon their different physical properties. Therefore, there are

 multiple processing plants that are often utilized to obtain the various atomic

 minerals from the beach sand mined. 194. The processing plants depending upon their location will require

 CRZ Clearance. In the EIA Notification of 2006, Entry 2(b) concerns

 “mineral beneficiation”. The processing plants will need to get a handling

 license under the Atomic Energy (Working of the Mines, Minerals and

 Handling of Prescribed Substances) Rules, 1984. SO 1210 dated

 24.04.2009 issued by the AERB stated that the BSM Processing Plants

 carrying out mining and mineral separation for production of ilmenite, rutile,

 leucoxene, zircon, sillimanite, garnet and monazite and physical and

 chemical processing of these BSM will require a safety license under the

 Atomic Energy (Radiation Protection) Rules, 2004. The necessary

 permissions from the Local Authority and permissions to construct the

 processing plants will need to be obtained. 2.1 Environmental Laws on Mineral Processing: Page 116 of 238 This is identified in the AC report, in cases of 19 approvals of mining leases

 in which official agencies, viz., AMD and IBM have approved claims by

 mining companies. The AC report also quoted the Nagar committee report

 over replenishment of beach sand occurring in the backdrop of allegations

 that mining companies have been using the excuse of mining

 replenishments to cover up massive illegal mining of BSMs. 198. Ironically the mining plans approved by the IBM / AMD have not

 taken note of this and have permitted enhanced quantities of minerals to be

 mined by approving modified mining plans on account of the replenishment

 of minerals in the inter tidal Zone. 199. The 1991 CRZ has been replaced by 2011 CRZ Notification .

 The provisions with regard to BSM mining remains the same except that the

 protection to sand dunes has been made more stringent. 200. Para 2 of the 1991 Notification lists out the Prohibited Activities

 within the CRZ. Para 2(ix) prohibits “mining of sands, rocks and other

 substrata minerals in CRZ areas except; (a) those rare minerals not

 available outside the CRZ areas and; (b) exploration of Oil and Natural Page 118 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Gas”. Rule 2(xiii) prohibits “dressing or altering of sand dunes, hills, natural

 features including landscape changes for beautification, recreational and

 other such purpose except as permissible under this Notification”. The

 proposals for activities within the CRZ area are examined by the Tamil Nadu

 Coastal Zone Management Authority and its recommendations are given.

 Thus, it is important to note here that while mining within the CRZ area was

 permitted if the minerals are not found outside the CRZ area, such mining

 cannot lead to alteration or dressing of sand dunes. Additionally if minerals

 are found outside the CRZ, then no mining was permitted within the CRZ.

 2.3 Violations of Conditions of EC and CRZ Clearances: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 202. No Mining can be allowed within 50 Meters from the river banks.

 But in Survey No.23, Nambiyar River running between Thiruvambalapuram

 and Karaichuthu Pudur Villages, Mining has been done right up to the River

 bed. The lessee concerned has literally blocked the natural mouth of river

 Nambiyar in S.F.No. 23 between Thiruvambalapuram and Karaichuthu

 Pudur villages, thereby affecting the fragile backwater eco-system (coming

 under CRZ-I). It has also affected the natural tidal water influence on the

 river body. Mining has also been noticed right up to the river banks. These

 are environmental violations of serious nature. 203. In Tirunelveli District, 24 out of 52 leases, the lessees have not

 obtained necessary environmental clearance from the Ministry of

 Environment and Forest, Government of India, which they should have

 otherwise obtained, as all the lease areas are falling under CRZ. 204. In all leases the following common environmental violations were

 noticed : https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (5) Mining in Inter Tidal zone has been noticed (in the leased
 area, without necessary clearance from Ministry of
 Environment and Forests, Government of India). (6) Illicit mining reported in CRZ-1 and Inter Tidal Zone.
 (7) Temporary and Permanent structures, Bore wells, Open
 wells, Cement pipelines (to draw sea water), desalination
 plant, Office sheds, Labourers' Sheds, etc., were constructed
 by some lessees (as pointed out in detail for each Lease)
 right in CRZ-I area and Inter Tidal zone, which is strictly
 prohibited activity as per CRZ Notification and other related
 Acts and Regulations. 2.4 Sand Dunes: The sand dunes which are to be kept intact have been mined and removed.

 Similar issue is spotted in Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari. There has been

 violation under Rule 22A of the MCR, 1960. 2.5 Role of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB): This emerges from the stand point of the following perspectives: (i) the State

 is a public trustee of natural resources, including minerals; (ii) pursuant to its

 role as a public trustee, the State has been empowered to regulate

 prospecting and mining operations; (iii) the provisions of the statute reflect

 the priority of the state to regulate mining and related activities to ensure

 sustainable mineral development; (iv) prospecting and mining operations

 may be carried out by both the Government as well as private lessees

 bearing in mind the public interest; and (v) the Government has to ensure

 that mineral concessions are granted in a fair and transparent manner11. 210. When the State holds a resource that is freely available for the

 use of public, it provides for a high degree of judicial scrutiny on any action 9. Mineral Area Development Authority (Supra) 10. State of Rajasthan vs. Gotan Lime Stone Khanji Udyog (P) Ltd. , (2016 4 SCC 469 [29]; Orissa Mining Corporation Ltd. vs. Ministry of Environment & Forests , (2013 6 SCC 476 [58] 11. Mineral Area Development Authority (Supra) Page 123 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 of the Government12. It is, thus, the duty of the Government to provide

 complete protection to the natural resources as a trustee of the public at

 large. Moreover, even a policy to give free sand as welfare measure cannot

 justify unregulated mining unmindful of impact on environment. If in the

 course of mining, damage is caused, the same must be recovered from

 such violators. Else, authorities cannot avoid their duty under the

 environmental law to restore the damage which is a duty to future

 generations13. 2.7 Polluter Pays Principle: It is clear from the report of CEC that the majority of
 the khatedari leases are within 100 metres from the
 riverbed. 18. The 2020 Sand Mining Guidelines prescribe
 that mining plan for mining leases on khatedari lands
 shall only be approved if there is a possibility of
 replenishment of the mineral or when there is no
 possibility of riverbed mining within 5 km of the patta
 land/khatedari land. Agreeing with CEC's conclusions
 on the issue of mining leases in khatedari lands
 facilitating legalisation of transportation and sale of
 illegally extracted sand, we approve the Page 126 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 recommendation of CEC that all khatedari leases
 which are located within 5 km from the riverbed and
 those leases where lease conditions have been
 violated have to be terminated forthwith and that
 khatedari leases shall be granted only with the
 permission of this Court. 19. CEC has recommended imposition of
 exemplary penalty of Rs 10 lakhs per vehicle and Rs 5
 lakhs per cubic metre of sand seized, which would be
 in addition to what has already been ordered/collected
 by the State agencies as compensation. Compensation/penalty to be paid by those indulging in
 illegal sand mining cannot be restricted to the value of
 illegally-mined minerals. The cost of restoration of
 environment as well as the cost of ecological services
 should be part of the compensation. The “polluter
 pays” principle as interpreted by this Court means that
 the absolute liability for harm to the environment
 extends not only to compensate the victims of pollution
 but also the cost of restoring the environmental
 degradation. Remediation of the damaged
 environment is part of the process of “sustainable
 development” and as such the polluter is liable to pay
 the cost to the individual sufferers as well as the cost
 of reversing the damaged ecology. 20. The scale of compensation by those who
 are involved in illegal mining has been dealt with by
 NGT in National Green Tribunal Bar Assn. v. Virender
 Singh [Cited Supra] . In its Order dated 26-2-202118 , 18. National Green Tribunal Bar Assn. (Supra) Page 127 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 NGT considered and approved the Report submitted
 by the Central Pollution Control Board dated 30-1-
 2020, in pursuance of its earlier orders, on scale of
 compensation to be recovered for violation of norms
 for mining on “polluter pays” principle. Additionally,
 Para 9.2 of the 2020 Sand Mining Guidelines provides
 as follows: i. Transporting quantities in excess of approved quantities;
 ii. Transporting minerals not approved to be mined or transported for
 a specific lease and; iii. Transporting minerals during years/periods when there was no
 approved ‘scheme of mining’. 213. Of the total quantum of 1,51,27,070 MTs of raw sand for which

 transport permits were obtained, the total quantum unlawfully transported

 works out to 86,35,151 MTs in terms of the 62 mining leases owned by

 M/s.V.V.Mineral and M/s.Transworld Garnet India Private Limited.

 3.1 Illegalities in Grant of Transport Permits: Whereas, they had obtained transport permits for a quantity of 1,85,150 MT

 of Garnet only from 2000-2001 to 2007-2008. Therefore it was estimated by

 the learned Amicus that a total quantity of 5,13,737 MT of Garnet had been

 illegally mined and transported by the 9th Respondent without obtaining

 transport permits. Page 131 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 219. When the issuance of transport permits were stopped from

 August, 2013 onwards, the Assistant Commissioner of Customs,

 Thoothukudi vide his letter dated 05.10.2016 informed the District Collector,

 Thoothukudi/Tirunelveli that a total quantity of 3,96,081 MT of beach sand

 minerals were exported by R10 from 08.08.2013 to 10.01.2016 through

 Thoothukudi Port. Therefore, the entire quantity of 3,96,081 MT of beach

 sand minerals exported by R10 without transport permits are illegally

 exported contravening the provisions of Section 4 (1- A) of the MMDR Act,

 1957 and attracts penal provision of Section 21 of the MMDR Act, 1957.

 Several other findings pertaining to the unlawful transportation is available in

 the report filed by the Amicus. 220. The Amicus Curiae had submitted a comprehensive chart with

 details of the quantity of raw sand and BSMs illegally transported by private

 lessees. The data as mentioned in the report as to the quantum of illegal

 mining and transportation is humongous and shocking. A further matter of

 concern is the Sahoo Committee report which reveals that illegal

 transportation of the minerals and raw sand was carried out inspite of the

 ban on mining in place. This shows the complete failure of the monitoring

 mechanisms that ought to have been in vigil. Page 132 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 221. Another disheartening fact is that, even after the godowns

 containing BSM stocks were sealed after the Sahoo Committee inspection,

 a reassessment of stocks by the District collectors revealed that this threat

 of illicit mining is unstoppable. There was a shortfall of BSMs stocks in the

 sealed godown despite the ban thereby proving that illegal transportation

 was still happening. Till the remainder of stocks are present in those sealed

 godowns the illicit transportation will be difficult to curb and it would be only

 wise on the part of the State Government to legally dispose of the stock as

 early as possible to prevent further offences. 222. Considering that the stocks have an alarming presence of

 Monazite, which being a radioactive substance and constitutes a high risk,

 the stocks which are in the custody of the State Government ought to be

 handed over to the M/s.IREL India Ltd. which is a Government of India

 undertaking exclusively entitled to handle Monazite under the Atomic

 Energy (Working of Mines, Minerals and Handling of Prescribed

 substances) Act, 1984. 3.2 Illegal Transportation Left Unchecked: Page 133 of 238 (4) Illegal Exports: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 The total quantum of exports of BSMs specifically after the ban in mining

 and transportation i.e., September, 2013 onwards was initially amounting to

 21,90,951 MTs. So the total quantum of exports post ban period amounts to

 28% of the total exports made from 2000-2017. 4.1 High Quantum of Monazite Concentration in Processed Stock: Though internationally Uranium based Reactors are developed, there has

 been attention given to Thorium based reactors too. 229. India is recognised as the third largest repository of thorium

 deposits in the world, only after Brazil and Turkey. In India itself Monazite is

 the main rare earth mineral from which Thorium is derived and Tamilnadu is

 one of the main repositories of Monazite-thorium. 230. Hence, the data gathered by the Sahoo Committee and the

 reports of unlawful transportation of Monazite and further statement on the

 presence of Monazite above the threshold value in the processed stocks of

 the mining companies which are stored to be exported ought to be probed in

 depth. Keeping the seriousness of the issue in hand and the security of Page 137 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 our great Nation being the top priority, the Competent agencies must

 thoroughly investigate this issue. 4.2 Discrepancies in the Details of Mineral Export: 2001 to 2016-2017. The extraction of 60,63,736 M.T of processed minerals

 from 96,80,600 M.T of raw sand is estimated as a recovery of 61.37% of

 total heavy minerals. 232. This high recovery percentage of total heavy minerals is neither

 supported by the available literature nor supported by the approved mining

 plan / scheme of mining pertaining to the mining lease hold areas of the 8th

 Respondent in the three districts. Even after this high recovery of total

 heavy minerals extracted and sold from 2000-2001 to 2016-2017, the

 balance stock available with the 8th Respondent could be waste only and

 could not be treated either as raw sand (ROM) or semi processed sand or

 processed minerals. Whereas, the report filed by the Special Team headed

 by Mr.Satyabrata Sahoo, I.A.S., on 18.04.2018 revealed that 38,77,391M.T

 of raw sand, semi processed sand and processed minerals are kept with

 them as stock. Therefore, the entire quantity of 38,77,391 M.T of stock

 available with the 8th Respondent as assessed by the Sahoo Committee is

 illegally mined, transported and stored contravening the provisions of Section 4(1) and 4(1A) of the MMDR Act, 1957 and it will attract the penal

 provisions of Section 21 of MMDR Act, 1957. Page 139 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 233. Further, the 8th Respondent has not provided the actual quantum

 of Garnet, Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon, Sillimanite, Leucoxene sold / exported by

 them from 2000-2001 to 2016-2017 to the Government so far. Apart from

 that the 8th Respondent has not submitted the actual quantum of beach

 sand minerals sold/exported and the actual sale value realised before this

 Court also. Therefore, the amount estimated by the learned Amicus Curiae

 is reflecting only a portion of the huge loss caused to the State Exchequer

 by the illegal activities of the 8th Respondent. It was further averred that

 none of the other lessees have submitted details of actual quantum of BSMs

 sold or exported by them and the actual sale value realised for the period

 from 2000-2001 to 2016-2017 to the 6th Respondent.

 4.3 Action Required: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 4.4.Challenge to Public Notice No.50 of 2016: Writ Appeal filed in W.A.No.1724 of 2018 was dismissed by the Division

 Bench on 03.09.2018. The Special Leave Petition filed by M/s.V.V.Mineral Page 141 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 in S.L.P.(C).No.2775 of 2019 as been dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court of India as withdrawn on 20.02.2020. Thus, the Division Bench

 judgment of Kerala High Court attained finality. Therefore, no further

 adjudication needs to be undertaken in respect of the issues in connection

 with the Public Notice No.50 of 2016 issued by the Commissioner of

 Customs. (B) Monazite: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 240. Under the Atomic Energy Act, 1962 , “prescribed substances”

 has been defined in Section 2(g) as “any substance including any mineral

 which the Central Government may, by notification, prescribe, being a

 substance which in its opinion is or may be used for the production or use of

 atomic energy or research into matters connected therewith and includes

 uranium, plutonium, thorium, berylium, deuterium or any of their respective

 derivatives or compounds or any other materials containing any of the

 aforesaid substances”. 241. All the atomic minerals were originally notified as prescribed

 substances under the Atomic Energy Act . The list of prescribed substances

 originally notified was amended by Notification dated 20.01.2006. The

 Notification provided that Entry “OA314 - Titanium ores and concentrates

 (Ilmenite, Rutile and Leucoxene)” and Entry “OA315 Zirconium, its alloys

 and compounds and minerals/concentrates including zircon” would cease to

 be prescribed substances from 01.01.2007 onwards. Therefore, from

 01.01.2007, Ilmenite, Rutile, Leucoxene and Zircon ceased to be prescribed

 substances. However, Monazite continued to be a prescribed

 substance. Page 144 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 1.2 Policy Decision of DAE on Monazite: The AMD has not approved any mining plan in Tamil Nadu in favour of 9th

 Respondent M/s.Transworld Garnet India Private Limited. 243. However, under the guidelines framed by the Atomic Energy

 Regulatory Board (AERB) individual processors of beach sand have to

 separate and safely keep the monazite content of such sand. No individual

 or entity is permitted to process monazite in any manner without a licence

 from DAE. Monazite is important for our Country's nuclear requirements and

 due to the said reasons only, private players are not allowed to process

 Monazite. Page 145 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 244. The Transportation of the Monazite enriched tailings, which is a

 radioactive material, through public domain, it requires a separate approval

 for transportation of radioactive material under Sub clause (iii) of third

 proviso to Rule 3(3) of Atomic Energy (Radiation Protection) Rules, 2004,

 which states that "approval for package design for transportation of

 radioactive minerals" is required. This safety licence is said to have been

 issued to the 8th Respondent. Permission for transport is issued for

 Monazite enriched tailings and not Monazite, as none of the non-DAE units

 are permitted for production of Monazite as product. 245. No private players, including 8th Respondent are allowed to crack

 Monazite, taking into consideration that to remove Monazite from the

 Monazite rich tailings results in highly radioactive thorium and uranium and

 are vulnerable to leaching. Hence, the Second Respondent is restricting the

 grant of licences for such processing of Monazite only to fully owned Public

 Sector Undertaking (IREL) of the second Respondent and considered not to

 be in public interest to open this activity to private sector beach sand

 mineral players like Respondent Companies. 246. Monazite mineral will be present in the left out tailings after

 removal of other minerals like Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon, Garnet etc. and the Page 146 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 second Respondent through AERB is regulating the monazite rich tailings

 by way of issuing licence under the Atomic Energy (Radiation Protection)

 Rules, 2004 and carrying out annual inspection of the sites of the beach

 sand private mining players solely from radiological safety aspects. 247. Therefore, Monazite being a prescribed substance under the Atomic Energy Act , the private parties are prohibited from mining,

 processing, selling or exporting the mineral. (2) Monazite Enriched Tailings: 248. After initial cleansing, the residual raw sand is subjected to

 processing to obtain different BSMs for which the lessee mining company

 has to obtain permission. After extraction of the permitted BSM, the residue

 contains higher concentration of the minerals not removed, especially

 monazite. These residues are termed “tailings”. Since private players are

 not permitted to process monazite, monazite enriched tailings' which

 become radioactive with higher concentrations of monazites, have to be

 stored in specially constructed and protected enclosures so as to prevent

 both accidental radiation to animals and human beings and contamination of

 local sites, sand and water as well as prevent it from getting into wrong

 hands. Page 147 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 2.1 Handling Licences Mandatory for Handling Monazite Tailings: Though the Rules stipulate the Handling licence to be obtained, in practice,

 the AMD and DAE seem to have done away with this requirement. 254. Under the Atomic Energy (Radiation Protection) Rules 2004,

 where Monazite is concerned, the lessee has to obtain licence from Atomic

 Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) for mineral separation plant operations as

 per the directives and instructions of the AERB or anybody authorized by

 DAE in accordance with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act, 1962 read

 with Notification No.30/1/2002-ER/Vol.II/2875, dated 12.10.2006 for the

 purpose of handling Monazite. It is clarified by the DAE that the 8th

 Respondent (M/s.V.V.Mineral) was granted handling licence under this

 legislation. 255. Regarding the documents relating to permission/ authorization

 granted to Respondents for disposal/transfer of radioactive waste under the

 Atomic Energy (Safe Disposal of Radioactive Wastes) Rules 1987, it was

 submitted that the “Monazite” concentrates, which are presently being

 stored does not qualify, as “Wastes” and hence, no authorization under the

 Atomic Energy (Safe Disposal of Radioactive Waste) Rules, 1987 were

 issued. Page 150 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 2.2 Presence of Monazite Enriched Tailings in the Leased Out Mines: The report reveals that Arasoor site of M/s.Beach Minerals Sand Company

 is having 0.46% Monazite equivalent and reveals that the Mappillaioorani

 site of M/s.Miracle Sands and Chemicals has Monazite tailings at two

 places, having 7.8% monazite equivalent. This trench has 75 MT material,

 which translates to 5.85 MT Monazite. The other site is open heap having

 dimensions of 8m length, 2m width and 2m height, having 5.5% Monazite

 equivalent. This dump has 160 metric tonnes material which translates to

 8.80 MT Monozite. The report reveals that Monazite tailings are stored at Page 151 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 two locations at Mela Arasaradi site of M/s.Miracle Sands and Chemicals

 one site having 5.0% and 16.0% monazite equivalent and another having

 3.90% and 4.80 monazite equivalent. 258. Subsequently a Super check inspection was conducted in

 designated areas reported to have monazite enriched tailings stored in

 Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, along with officials of Atomic Minerals

 Directorate, Indian Bureau of Mines, Atomic Energy Regulatory Board,

 Geology and Mining, Revenue and Survey Departments.

 2.3 Accounting for Monazite Enriched Tailings: Therefore, this points out a huge discrepancy between factual records of

 transportation, declarations made by the company as to the extent of raw

 sand (ROM) mined and the actual fact as disclosed from monazite tailings. Page 153 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 263. Adding complexity to this is the fact that the report of the Special

 Team indicates that a quantity of 671.89 MTs of Monazite can be extracted

 from the processed minerals kept packed in bags in Thoothukudi with

 Monazite content between 0.7% to 4.8%. Using the reverse calculation

 method, a much higher proportion of raw sand (ROM) would be required to

 produce 667.4 MTs of pure Monazite. Using the same calculation, about 13

 lakh tonnes of raw sand would be required to produce 671 MTs of monazite.

 2.5 Reverse Calculation Method: 267. An exercise was undertaken to compute the total quantity of raw

 sand required to produce 23,461 MTs of monazite (as determined by R-2 Page 155 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 based on the figures given by R-8/22) at 29% concentration: Case 3 and 4 represents 2 other possibilities and are presented to have a rough Page 156 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Monazite Tailings Reported by R-8: Calculation of Raw Sand requirement
 (APP)
 estimation of the amount of raw sand required amounting to 4.88 crores and
 4.93 crores of raw sand each. 268. The above calculation is an attempt to approximately calculate

 the total quantity of raw sand required based on the specifications given by

 R-2. The calculations are made on the assumption that some amount of

 monazite will be lost in the preliminary washing and pre-concentration stage

 and during mineral separation stage. 269. The above calculation indicates that approximately 4.69 Crores

 to 4.93 Crore MTs of raw sand will be required to produce the 23,461 MTs

 of Monazite or 80,725.06 MTs of monazite enriched tailings. 270. It requires to be noted that the total quantity of ROM transported

 as shown by the data provided by the District Mining Departments amounts

 only to 1.51 Crores in respect of all lessees for the period 2000-2001 till

 2013-2014. 21. In contrast the above figure of 4.69 to 4.93 Crores of ROM

 is required in respect of mining operations of only one lessee, viz., R8,

 M/s.V.V.Mineral, and that too for the period 2007-2016. This huge

 discrepancy is significant. Page 157 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 271. Hence, it can be deduced that while the computation of monazite

 from the total amount of ROM transported during the period is a lower

 figure, the amount that can be quantified from the basis of concentrated

 monazite tailings is much higher figure. Working backwards, if one were to

 compute the amount of raw sand required to produce 23,461 MTs of

 monazite, the figure will be much more than the amount of 98,88,100 MTs

 of raw sand reported to have been transported by 8th respondent from the

 34 mining leases he operates. This works out to a figure much larger than

 the amount of ROM claimed by the company. Hence there is a clear

 “mismatch”. 272. It is also highlighted in the 1st report of the Amicus Curiae filed

 before this Court on 20th June, 2017, that a total quantity of ROM amounting

 to between 4.6 to 4.9 Crore Tons of raw sand will be required to produce

 23,462 Tons of Monazite. None of the respondents so far have controverted

 this figure. 273. In this background, the crucial point to be highlighted is the fact

 that while the total amount of raw sand declared by respondents 8 and 22 to

 have been mined between 2000-2001 to 2013-2014 is only 98.88 Lakh

 Tonnes. Monazite tailings indicate a massive amount of 4.6 to 4.9 Crore Page 158 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Tons of raw sand having to be required to be mined. All this therefore

 indicates a huge discrepancy between factual records of transportation,

 declarations made by the company as to the extent of ROM mined and the

 actual fact as disclosed from the Monazite tailings. 274. Furthermore, the DAE has submitted that the calculation arrived

 at by the learned Amicus Curiae is justified considering the average grade

 of 0.05% monazite in raw sand as declared by Respondent 8 to 22. So the

 DAE submits that, as per the declaration of Respondent 8 to 22, the total

 raw sand production is only 98,88,100 MT. Considering the average grade

 of 0.05% in raw sand (also declared by Respondents 8 to 22), this quantity

 of raw sand would yield only 5,876 MT of monazite, which is a major

 discrepancy with respect to the quantity of monazite assessed by Special

 Team. The difference indicates that, a larger quantity of raw sand has been

 processed than what was declared. 275. The DAE further submits that, even if a higher grade of monazite

 is considered, say 0.1% (2 times) in raw sand mined, taking into account the

 possible enrichment process by beach washings, about 3.50 to 4 crore

 tonnes of raw sand is required for the collection of 38,608 tonnes of

 monazite as against the 98,88,100 tonnes raw sand declared by Page 159 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Respondents 8 and 22. In view of the above, the possibility of excessive

 mining of raw sand against the declared quantities and grades cannot be

 ruled out. Hence there can be an effective conclusion drawn from the Sahoo

 committee report, Amicus Curiae report and the submissions of DAE that

 there has been illegal mining of raw sand over and above the permissible

 limits. 276. The Sahoo Committee report and the Amicus Curiae report

 reveal similar contradictions in the quantity of raw sand mined as declared

 by the private mining companies namely Respondents herein and the actual

 raw sand mined as disclosed from monazite tailings. Though the

 Respondent mining companies oppose the reverse calculation method

 adopted by the committees, it is beyond understanding as to how such a

 huge mismatch between declared raw sand mined and actual raw sand, as

 disclosed from Monazite tailings can happen. This mismatch cannot be

 completely brushed aside. 2.6 Total Quantity of Monazite that can be Extracted from Stocks

 Available with M/s.V.V.Mineral which are > 0.25% Monazite Equivalent: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (ii) The total quantity of Monazite available in the processed minerals

 is 671 MT. (iii) The total quantity of Monazite available in the stocks of the

 company amounts to approximately 15,000 MT. (iv) The total quantum of Monazite available in the Monazite tailings

 stored in the designated site at Thirvambalapuram village is 23,608 MT as

 found by AMD. (v) A total quantity of over 4.6 Crore tonnes of raw sand is required to

 produce 23,608 MTs of Monazite. How and where this was obtained or how

 such a massive mining could be covered up is a matter that is required to

 be inquired into by specialised agencies competent to undertake such an

 investigation. (vi) If to the stock of 23,608 MTs of Monazite, a further quantity of

 15,000 MTs of monazite that can be extracted from all the stocks of the

 company is added, a total figure of 38,608 MTs of Monazite merges. As

 explained before, this, in turn, would require a ROM quantity of over 6 to 7

 crore tonnes of raw sand (ROM). 280. Similarly with regard to the Respondent 10/Respondent 17, the

 Sahoo committee report indicates that the company gave a declaration to

 the committee of having stocks of 9441 MT, whereas, the Committee Page 162 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 estimated amount to 64,40,028.93 MT. Hence, there is a huge discrepancy

 between quantity declared and quantity found. 281. The Report of the Special Team in respect of stocks of raw sand

 and minerals processed by M/s.Transworld Garnet has reported that as

 against a declared quantity of 17,75,761 MT of stock, the quantity estimated

 by the Second Level Teams is 16,30,724.5 MTs. It is necessary to point out

 that Transworld Garnet India Pvt. Ltd. has been granted 14 mining leases

 for mining garnet in Tirunelveli district and 2 mining leases for mining garnet

 in Thoothukudi district. They do not have any mining lease for mining

 Ilmenite and other BSMs. 282. While so, one of the samples relating to Processed Mineral, viz.,

 TTK 15, relating to sample taken in Kootudankadu village in Thoothukudi

 district, found THM concentration of 98.472% in a stock of 6140.86 MT

 quantity. It is reported that this processed mineral is a finished product kept

 in bags for sale. In this sample, Garnet concentration was found to be

 91.95% amounting to 5646.76 MTs of garnet. Very interestingly, this same

 sample also contains 6.5% of Ilmenite amounting to 399.16 MTs of Ilmenite.

 In other words there was a substantial quantity of Ilmenite in the stock which

 is said to be mainly Garnet. It must be pointed out that Ilmenite is a higher Page 163 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 value mineral of great demand in external markets. The company does not

 have permission to mine, process and sell Ilmenite. 283. With regard to Respondent 9, the total quantity of 2,984.95 MT

 of monazite can be extracted from the various stocks of raw sand, semi-

 processed and processed minerals found in the stockyard of the company. 284. The Report of the Special Team in respect of stocks of raw sand

 and minerals processed by M/s Industrial Mineral Company has reported

 that as against a declared quantity of 4,42,080 MT of stock, the quantity

 estimated by the Second Level Teams is 25,58,169.93 MTs. The total

 quantity of Monazite can be extracted from all the stocks of M/s.IMC comes

 to about 4,122.65 MT. In the sample under the name of M/s.IOGS, the total

 quantity of stock is 9775 MT from which 605 MT of Ilmenite can be

 extracted. The issue is how M/s.IOGS can sell Ilmenite, when they do not

 have the licence to do so. 285. Also total quantity of 1,738.97 MTs of Monazite can be extracted

 from the different stocks held by M/s.IOGS Company Ltd. As previously

 pointed out the company itself holds only 2 individual mining leases for

 mining and sale of Garnet alone. However, the stocks with them indicate Page 164 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 that they do have fair quantity of Ilmenite and Monazite stocks with them.

 2.7 Monazite Tailings Yard: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (3) Whether State Government is Empowered to Add Monazite

 and Other Atomic Minerals to the Existing Mining Leases Without

 Prior Approval of the Central Government? 295. This question is of utmost significance in the present matter. It is

 an undisputed fact that Monazite is a prescribed substance under the Atomic Energy Act and it is clear that private parties are prohibited from

 mining, processing, selling or exporting the mineral. So the pertinent

 question that arises is that, how come the State Government approved the

 adding of monazite to the 16 existing leases of the 8th Respondent without

 getting due permission from DAE as required under the law. The DAE has

 explicitly denied granting any permission to the State Government for

 inclusion of Monazite in the existing mining lease granted to any

 private party. So the State Government by granting such permission

 without the sanction of the Central government/DAE has acted in

 contravention of the Atomic Energy Act and Rules therein. 296. To counter this argument by the DAE, the Industries Secretary

 relies on a letter of DAE dated 24.09.2002, which states that licence for

 prescribed substance can be issued by the department, only on production

 of a copy of the mining lease obtained from the State Government to state Page 169 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 that State Government added monazite to the 16 mining leases of M/s V.V.

 Minerals, so that they could in turn, approach the Central Government to

 obtain the necessary Handling licence. 297. This contention by the State Government makes one wonder as

 to how the DAE granted handling licence for monazite to the 8th

 Respondent company, when they deny granting any sanction to State

 Government for inclusion of Monazite in the mining lease of the Respondent

 mining company in the first place. The Respondent mining companies had

 to submit the mining leases, while applying for handling licence. Had the

 DAE not verified the mining lease containing illegal inclusion of monazite?

 So, how can the DAE feign ignorance by stating that they did not grant

 approval to State Government to include monazite in mining lease, but

 parallelly they have granted Handling licence to the Respondent mining

 company. On what basis or record was handling licence accorded to the 8th

 Respondent company? Had the DAE failed to verify whether the State

 Government had powers or sanction of the Central Government to include

 monazite in the existing leases? When the private mining company applied

 for Handling licence, Why the DAE failed to verify the contents of the mining

 lease to question the State government as to how they granted permission

 to include monazite in the mining lease of the said Respondent mining Page 170 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 company without their sanction? This gives rise to the reasonable question

 as to the role of DAE officials in this issue of granting Handling licence and

 also why the DAE failed to take action, inspite of large scale reports

 available on monazite being dealt with by private players. Why did the

 monitoring mechanism remain silent and ineffective when the illegalities

 where perpetrating? Hence this Court feels that the role of DAE officials

 must also be enquired into by the appropriate agencies to identify if there is

 any collusion of officials in this major scam. 3.1 Is Approval Required for Grant of Mining Lease Pertaining to Other

 Atomic Minerals? 298. Proviso to Section 5(1) of the MMDR Act clearly states that: Provided also that the composite licence or
 mining lease shall not be granted for an area to any
 person other than the Government, Government
 company or corporation, in respect of any minerals
 specified in Part B of the First Schedule where the
 grade of such mineral in such area is equal to or
 above such threshold value as may be notified by the Page 172 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Central Government.” 299. Even for grant of mining lease for any other atomic mineral like

 Ilemenite, Rutile, Zircon, Leucoxene, under Part B of the First Schedule of

 the Act, prior permission is to be obtained from the Central Government

 before grant of mining lease for mining any atomic mineral(s). 300. The DAE has submitted that, even if permission was obtained by

 the State Government from the Central Government for grant of lease to

 any one atomic mineral, further permission should be obtained from the

 Central Government by the State Government for grant of lease to any other

 atomic minerals not originally granted by the Central Government. 301. Also Clauses (i) and (ii) to Sub Rule (1) of Rule 66A of the

 Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 specifies that, even if the original grant of

 mining lease by the State Government was for mining Garnet, if the mining

 lease holder discovers any atomic minerals under Part B of the First

 Schedule of the Act, the lessee shall not mine and dispose of such mineral

 and the lessee shall report the same to the Atomic Minerals Directorate for

 Exploration and Research (AMD), Hyderabad and thereafter obtain

 permission for including the atomic minerals in the lease and the State Page 173 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Government after obtaining such permission from the Central Government

 shall include the said atomic mineral(s) in the lease. Hence it is mandatory

 under the Act and Rules for the State Government and the lessee to obtain

 the permission from the Central Government before granting mining lease to

 the lessee for mining atomic minerals. 3.2 Illegal Inclusion of Monazite and Other Heavy Minerals in Existing

 Mining Leases Without Prior Approval of the Government of India: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 304. Further, Part B of the First Schedule to the MMDR Act lists the

 Atomic minerals. It is mandatory for the State Government to obtain

 permission from the Central Government before granting mining leases to

 mine minerals specified in Part B of the First Schedule to the MMDR Act.

 Hence, the law lays down that it is mandatory under the Act and Rules for

 the State Government and the lessee to obtain permission from the Central

 Government before granting mining lease to the lessee for mining atomic

 minerals. There has been a clear transgression of the Act and Rules by the

 State Government, which is a serious matter thereby paving way for the

 offence of illegal mining, processing, transporting and exporting of BSMs. 305. It is clearly established through the proceedings of the

 Commissioner of Geology and Mining in Rc No.6617/MM7/2011 dated

 30.11.2012. The Commissioner of Geology and Mining, based on the

 proposal of the District Collector, Tirunelveli, had passed orders on the

 proposal of M/s.V.V.Mineral forwarded to the State Government. The said

 proposal sought for inclusion of associated minerals such as Silimanite,

 Leucoxene, Zircon and Monazite along with their existing mining lease.

 Further this proceeding also carries a reference to Government Letter (Ms)

 No.201/MMD2/2012-2 dated 26.11.2012, whereby the State Government Page 175 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 had directed the Commissioner of Geology and Mining to take necessary

 action for inclusion of the minerals Silimanite, Leucoxene, Zircon and

 Monazite as provided under G.O. (Ms) No.133, Industries (MMA1)

 Department, dated 04.05.1998. Based on the directions of the State

 Government the minerals Silimanite, Leucoxene, Zircon and Monazite were

 included in the mining lease of the 8th Respondent. The lease conditions

 stipulate that only the lessee should get Handling licence. But the

 fundamental point is that the State Government has no authority to grant the

 inclusion of a prescribed substance like Monazite to the existing mining

 lease without the prior permission of the Central Government. The

 Government owned undertaking Indian Rare Earths Limited (IREL) is the

 only Company empowered to deal with Monazite in India. No private

 company is allowed to deal with Monazite. Hence a very relevant as to on

 what basis the State Government directed the inclusion of Monazite to the

 existing mining lease of the 8th Respondent arises and the State

 Government failed to provide any satisfactory answer. Further, The

 Commissioner of Geology and Mining too acted upon this direction and

 passed a consequential order of inclusion of Monazite to the lease thereby

 committing a grave illegality. This entire process of inclusion of such a

 prescribed substance without the sanction of the Central Government

 ought to be viewed seriously and the level in which the State Page 176 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Government had bent its machinery and the laws of the land to grant

 such an unlawful lease to the 8th Respondent must be examined to

 unearth the presence of any political nexus, if any, and the connivance

 of the officials and the lessees must be probed in detail. 306. Since the policy decision of Central Government /DAE is to not

 allow private players to process monazite due to National Security reasons,

 only handling licence is granted for storing them separately in accordance

 with directives issued by AERB while granting handling licence under the

 Atomic Energy (Radiation Protection) Rules, 2004. 307. Therefore, when Monazite is listed as a prescribed substance

 and there is a clear embargo in mining, processing, transporting or

 exporting Monazite by private players, there arises a pertinent question as

 to how the State Government included the four atomic minerals including

 the prescribed substance- Monazite. When DAE has not given any

 permission to State Government for inclusion of Monazite in mining lease

 granted to any of the private parties, the illegal inclusion by the State

 Government of Monazite and other prescribed substances like zircon and

 leucoxene in existing mining leases of private parties without obtaining

 permission from DAE raises several questions on the role of officials in the Page 177 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 State Government in granting such illegal permission thereby imposing

 threat to National security. Even if the mining lease was modified to include

 Monazite, then the same is without sanction of the Central Government and

 amounts to violation of the Act and Rules in force. 308. The DAE has categorically submitted that inclusion of other

 atomic minerals like Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon in any existing mining lease

 without prior permission of the Central Government was also not

 permissible and therefore illegal. Whether it is modification of the Mining

 plan under Rule 10 of the MCDR, 1988 or Review of mining plan and

 submission of Scheme of mining under Rule 10(2) of MCDR or Modification

 of scheme of mining at all stages, prior approval of the Central Government

 is required. Therefore, a summary of the above position of law makes it

 clear that Monazite being a prescribed substance under Atomic Energy Act and private parties are prohibited from mining, processing, selling or

 exporting the mineral, there is no valid or justifiable reason to add the

 Monazite to the existing leases of the private parties. Moreover when the

 mineral Monazite is related to the issues concerning National security, this

 cannot be viewed lightly. Such violations ought to be viewed seriously and

 the State Government by approving the proposals of the private parties to

 mine four atomic minerals including Monazite by adding these minerals to Page 178 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 the pre-existing leases for mining Garnet, Rutile and Ilmenite only has

 paved way for the illegality. This necessitates serious actions against the

 officials involved and a probe into the events leading to such grant of illegal

 approvals ought to be carried out to cull out any instances of corruption and

 collusion between the officials and the private mining lessees and

 appropriate legal action including criminal prosecution needs to be instituted

 against such Government officials and private mining parties involved.

 (C) Royalty: 309. Royalty is a consideration paid by a mining lessee to the lessor

 for enjoyment of mineral rights and to compensate for the loss of value of

 minerals suffered by the owner of the minerals. It is the payment of tax to

 the Government for the (owner) mineral right for the privilege granted by him

 for mining and producing/dispatching of minerals. 310. As held in Mineral Development Authority case cited supra,

 the essential characteristics of royalty are that: 1.1 Royalty- Legal Position: However, no amendments were made to Section 9(2) or the Second

 Schedule of the MMDR Act . Section 9 deals with royalties in respect of Page 180 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 mining leases. Section 9(2) - “The holder of a mining lease
 granted on or after the commencement of this Act
 shall pay royalty in respect of any mineral removed
 or consumed by him or by his agent, manager,
 employee, contractor or sub-lessee from the
 leased area at the rate for the time being specified
 in the Second Schedule in respect of that
 minerals”. 313. The Second Schedule deals with the rates of royalty. In the case

 of Mineral Area Development Authority cited supra, the Apex Court dealt

 with the rates of royalty payable in respect of minerals in the Second

 Schedule of the MMDR Act . It states that the rates of royalty payable are

 computed either on an ad valorem basis at a specified percentage of the

 average sale price or at specific rates on per tonnage basis. Paragraph

 No.71 of the judgment reads as under: 314. Subsequently in September 2000, in the Mineral Concession

 Rules, 1960, Rules 64-B, 64-C, 64-D was introduced. Rule 64-B of the

 MCR, 1960 specifies how royalty is calculated when minerals undergo

 processing either within or outside the leased area. Royalty for minerals processed within the leased area: Royalty Calculation: Example: If a mine processes iron ore into concentrated iron within

 the lease area, the royalty will be calculated on the concentrated iron Page 182 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 ore when it is removed from the site. Royalty for minerals processed outside the leased area: Example: If the unprocessed coal is removed from the mining lease

 area and transported to an off-site plant for washing or refining,

 royalty will be calculated on the unprocessed coal as it is removed

 from the mine site, not on the refined coal after processing. 315. Rule 64-C provides for royalty on tailings or rejects. Rule 64-D

 deals with Guidelines for computing royalty on minerals on ad valorem

 basis. This clause underwent amendments in 2003 and 2009. In the year

 2003, amendment to Rule 64-D of MCR, 1960 was effected by substituting Page 183 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 the earlier Guidelines with two new provisions: 316. Further amendments were carried out to Rule 64-D on

 10.12.2009 by changing the very title itself to “Manner of payment of royalty Page 184 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 on ad valorem basis”. The earlier Guidelines by the way of Case 1 and

 Case 2 introduced in the year 2003, were dropped. More specifically, Case

 2 referring to atomic minerals was dropped altogether. In contrast, a new

 provision, Rule 64-D(1)(i) covering all non atomic and non fuel minerals was

 introduced stating that State wise sale price for different minerals as

 published by IBM shall be the sale price for computation of royalty.

 1.2 Rule 64-D - Manner of Payment of Royalty on Minerals on Ad

 Valorem Basis: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Sale Price Determination: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 319. Further royalty is leviable on each individual BSM on 'ad

 valorem' basis, which implies that royalty amount should be collected

 separately for each consignment according to, whether it was sold in the

 local market or was exported and on the basis of the sale value for each

 consignment. Since the ad valorem rates for each BSM is a % and not a

 fixed amount, it is important to note that royalty amount due to be paid will

 vary depending on the sale price of each mineral and consignment and

 quantum of mineral sold. This system is crucial for the mineral industry, as it

 helps align the interests of mine operators and the Government, contributing

 to the sustainable and equitable extraction of minerals. 320. In 2014, the royalty rate for BSM in the Second schedule was

 changed, whereby royalty rate for Garnet was changed from 3% sale price

 to 4% average sale price and rate of royalty for all other BSM were

 unchanged. In 2016, few major changes were brought about to the MMDR

 Act . A new item was added to Part B- ‘Atomic Minerals’ of the First schedule

 of the MMDR Act, 1957 which reads as follows: 321. Around the same time, the MCR, 1960 was repealed and

 substituted with two new Rules, these are - (1) The Minerals (Other than Atomic and Hydro carbons Energy
 Minerals) Concession Rules, 2016 (w.e.f 04.03.2016).
 (2) The Atomic Minerals Concession Rules, 2016 (w.e.f 11.07.2016)
 (AMCR)

 It is to be pointed out that the provisions of Rule 23 (2) of the AMCR, 2016

 provided for ad valorem royalty on all atomic minerals (after the 2016

 amendment, atomic minerals include all the 7 BSMs) which shall be based

 on the state wise sales price of each minerals as published by the

 Department (DAE, IBM or State Government). 322. The rate of royalty for major mineral has been revised with effect

 from 02.09.2019 vide G.S.R. 622(E). However, there is no change in the

 rate of royalty for BSMs. 323. The royalties in respect of mining leases is specified in Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957. Royalty is a variable return and it varies with the

 quantity of minerals extracted or removed. In case of ad valorem rates, the

 royalty is payable as per the mandate of Rule 64-D of MCR, 1960 in the

 manner prescribed thereunder. It casts an obligation on the mine owner to Page 189 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 compute the amount of royalty on minerals, where it is charged on ad

 valorem basis. 324. It is essential to note that mining leases are granted for the

 mining specified minerals and not for mining raw sand (ROM). Minerals

 including Garnet, Sillimanite, Rutile, Ilmenite, Leucoxene, and Zircon are

 mined using the leases granted. It would be completely irrelevant to apply

 Rule 64-B(2) as it applies to run-of-mine minerals, which is the raw sand

 here. 325. In case, run of mine mineral is removed from the leased area to

 a processing plant, which is located outside the leasehold area, the royalty

 shall be computed on the “unprocessed run of mine mineral”. The bare

 reading of the Rule makes it clear that the methodology envisaged under

 Rule 64-B cannot be applied to a “Raw Sand” to avoid liability to pay ad

 valorem royalty on Beach Sand Minerals. Rule 64-B applies only to minerals

 with a prescribed flat rate in the Schedule, not to those with an ad valorem

 royalty. 326. This provision was wrongly adopted on the ground that the

 lessees are taking the unprocessed raw sand from the mining site and Page 190 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 processing it elsewhere. It is to be understood that the mines from where

 the raw sand is mined are located on the seacoast in or near the Coastal

 Regulation Zone (CRZ). Therefore, the raw sand has to necessarily be

 taken to processing plants of each mining companies located outside the

 leasehold areas. Further, when such wealthy minerals are being extracted

 from this raw sand after processing, how can the royalty be imposed just on

 raw sand. Also, the Second Schedule of the Act does not prescribe any rate

 of royalty for “Raw Sand”. 1.4 Distinction Between Rules 64-B and 64-D: This is a complete wrong application of the Rule. The royalty should be

 affixed to the value of the minerals removed. More so, when Section 9 read

 with Second schedule specifically states ad valorem value of the mineral as

 the basis for fixation of royalty. 329. It is noteworthy that, it is not plain raw sand that has been mined

 by the lessees. It composes of mineral rich raw sands and post processing

 only the minerals can be extracted. It is impossible just to mine minerals

 separately. If this argument that the processing plants are located outside

 the leasehold areas and as such the payment of royalty on the “Raw Sand”

 should be applied under rule 64-B(2) is accepted, then it would make the ad

 valorem rate prescribed under the Second schedule of the Act redundant.

 When section 9 and Second Schedule of the MMDR Act are read together,

 it expressly mandates ad valorem basis for fixation of royalty, and any

 deviation from this would make the very fixation of royalty on ad valorem

 basis frivolous. Further the legislative intent behind provision for levying ad

 valorem royalty on beach sand minerals will be defeated and will result in Page 192 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 significant revenue loss to the State Exchequer. 330. It is also pertinent to note that the raw sand does not find

 mention in the Second Schedule nor is there any rate prescribed for it. On

 the other hand, the Second Schedule specifically mentions Garnet,

 Sillimanite, Rutile, Ilmenite, Leucoxene, and Zircon, for which royalty is

 payable on ad valorem basis. It is useful to also note that the mining leases

 also are given for the above-mentioned minerals and not for raw sand. The

 ad valorem royalty rates at the relevant time were as follows: 331. Therefore, where the Second Schedule prescribes royalty to be

 paid on ad valorem basis, Rule 64-D alone will apply and not Rule 64-B. 332. When Section 9(2) stipulates that the mining lessee shall pay

 royalty on the minerals removed from the lease site at the rate specified in

 the Second Schedule, reliance should immediately be placed on the rates of Page 193 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 royalty prescribed in the Second Schedule. The Schedule clearly states that

 the royalty is fixed on an ad valorem basis for the specified minerals.

 Further, when it comes to ad valorem fixation of royalty, Rule 64-D of the

 Mineral Concession Rules (MCR) shall apply. This ad valorem shall be

 calculated based on the sale price of each mineral. Hence, it is implicitly

 clear that Section 9(2) of MMDR Act and Second Schedule to the Act

 and Rule 64-D of MCR should be read together for computation of

 royalty on ad valorem basis for the minerals. Hence, it becomes crystal

 clear that the royalty rate for each of the six BSMs is fixed on an ad

 valorem basis. This fixation ranges from 2 to 4% of the sale price of each

 mineral. 333. It is also to be noted that the Department itself has computed

 royalty on ad valorem basis on all mining companies, including 8th

 Respondent/ M/s.V.V. Minerals, under Rule 64-D until the period 2007 -

 2008. However, in 2012, when District Officials of Tirunelveli District were

 computing the Royalty Payment for the period 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-11

 and 2011-12, they have selectively chosen to apply Rule 64-B and charged

 royalty on a flat rate of Rs.20 to 45 per MT of raw sand only in respect of 8th

 Respondent/ M/s.V.V. Minerals, 9th Respondent/ M/s.Transworld Garnet

 India Pvt Ltd and 13th Respondent/Industrial Minerals India Private Ltd, all of Page 194 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 whom were sister concerns of 8th Respondent/ M/s.V.V. Minerals at the

 relevant point in time. In contrast, the same Tirunelveli District officials

 computed ad valorem royalty for the other companies, viz., 10th

 Respondent/Beach Mineral Sands Company, 17th Respondent/Beach

 Mineral Company Pvt Ltd, under Rule 64-D on sale price of mineral. This is

 clearly arbitrary and illegal. There must be an enquiry into the rationale and

 motive behind such arbitrary fixation of royalty. 334. Thus, when the legislation itself prescribes ad valorem royalty for

 the minerals, the mining companies cannot take undue advantage of Rule

 64-B to avoid liability to pay ad valorem royalty.

 (2) Illogical and Wrongful Application of Law in Royalty

 Settlement Proceedings: 335. The authorities concerned after wrongfully computing Royalty

 only on ROM (raw sand), based on Rule 64-B(2) of MCR, the proceedings

 then follow an arbitrary logic in terms of reconciling the differential % of ad

 valorem royalty stipulated for different BSMs in the Second Schedule of the

 MMDR Act . At page 8 of the Proceedings, the Settlement records that; “The royalty for Garnet is 3% on ad valorem sale
 price. For all other minerals, Ilmenite, Rutile, Page 195 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Zircon, Silimanite, Leucoxene, the royalty is only
 2% on ad valorem basis. Hence the highest royalty
 rate of 3% has to be taken to fix up royalty for the
 whole ROM material according to Rule 64-B of
 MCR: 1960”. 336. It appears that the officials finalizing the Settlement seem to be

 projecting that they were deciding on the higher rate of 3% uniformly for the

 entire quantum of ROM transported as a justification for the arbitrary

 method of deciding that royalty is chargeable only on raw sand and not the

 actual BSM sold each year. There is no legal sanctity or provision to support

 this logic or method. What is intriguing about the method followed by the

 officials is that they have ignored the crucial fact that, in the Mining Lease

 Granting Orders (G.O./Proceedings) and in the Mining Lease Deed

 executed in respect of all the mining leases, it has been specifically stated

 that royalty should be collected at the rate specified in the Second Schedule

 of the MMDR Act, 1957 , on the actual quantum of each processed mineral,

 i.e., Garnet, Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon, etc., sold. Such being the clear

 condition agreed upon by the mining company and the Government about

 payment of ad valorem royalty, the method followed in this Settlement

 Proceedings has resulted in a huge loss of revenue to the State by way of

 very low royalty collections, when in fact, the company has sold huge Page 196 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 quantities of BSMs through export during these years and thereby earned

 huge income in those periods. 2.1 Low Royalty Fixation by IBM: When the issue of undervaluation was raised, the sale price was refixed in

 January 2014 at Rs. 5,600 MT for Tamil Nadu. But the Government of Tamil

 Nadu has lost a chunk of its revenue due to this undervaluation. 339. Due to the low fixation of the sale price for royalty, the total

 royalty earnings for Garnet in Tamil Nadu were Rs.5.47 Crore in 2013-2014.

 Further, the total royalty earnings from various beach minerals in the State

 have been between Rs.9 Crore to Rs.10 Crore only for few years, whereas Page 197 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 individual lessees have been exporting minerals worth hundreds of crores,

 with the State Government receiving a relatively small amount from this. 340. The Amicus Curiae report also expresses concern that due to

 the low fixation of royalty for Garnet, the beneficial effect of this depressed

 sale value was enjoyed by the mining companies during the Royalty

 Settlement Proceedings undertaken in 2012-2013. These settlement

 proceedings, covering the years 2008-2009 to 2011-2012, and the

 computation of royalty for the 8th Respondent company, were undertaken

 under Rule 64-B(2) and Rule 64-D of the Mineral Concession Rules (MCR),

 1960. The ad valorem royalty to be paid by the company was calculated at

 3% of the above amount, ranging between Rs.8.25 (for 2006), Rs.18.06 (for

 2010), and Rs.12 (in 2013) per metric ton (MT) of raw sand. 341. In contrast, if the per MT sale value of Garnet, as reported for

 Odisha (by IBM), or the export sale value (as reported by the companies

 themselves to the Customs Department), or the sale value of Garnet as

 reported by IREL, had been taken as the base value, a significantly higher

 sum of royalty would have been levied. 2.2 Misleading Data in Royalty Settlement Proceedings: Page 198 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 2.4 Improbability of Export of Only 5 MTs of Ilmenite During the 3 Year

 Period from 2005-2006 to 2007-2008: 2006 alone. 347. Apart from this quantum of 5 tonnes exported in 2005-06,

 according to the company's claim, no Ilmenite was exported in the years

 2006-2007 and 2007-2008. In contrast to the 5 MTs of Ilmenite exported by

 M/s. V.V. Minerals in the 3 years period, the same Royalty Settlement

 Proceedings shows the quantum of Ilmenite sold locally by the lessee

 company for the 3 years to be 4,97,115.42 MTs. 348. On analysis of Quantum of Ilmenite declared by M/s.V.V.Mineral

 as sold in Royalty Settlement Proceedings, 2009 with Customs Department

 data on exports from Thoothukudi port, it is evident that these figures are

 extremely doubtful, and have been presented only to enable fixation of low

 royalty. Page 201 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (3) Royalty Calculations and Payments: 349. It is pertinent to note that the State Government has accepted

 the royalty calculation done by the Amicus Curiae. The State Government

 has admitted that royalty must be calculated under Rule 64-D of MCR,

 1960. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Common Cause's judgment

 cited supra has explained the scope of recovery of cost that, if there was

 illegal mining, the defaulting lessee must bear consequences of the illegality

 and not be benefited by pocketing 70% of illegally mined ore. 350. The Hon'ble Supreme Court clarified that in the case of mineral

 unlawfully mined and transported,

 “... there can be no compromise on the
 quantum of compensation that should be
 recovered from any defaulting lessee - it should be
 100%.”

 It must be pointed out that apart from the cost of mineral, the State

 Government can also recover royalty on the quantum of mineral unlawfully

 transported as provided in section 21(5) of the Act itself. 351. The Amicus Curiae prepared a "Consolidated Summary of

 Royalty and 'Cost of Minerals' due to be recovered from BSM Mining

 Companies", which computes the total amount to be recovered from the Page 202 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 mining companies both for the pre-ban period 2000-01 to 2013-14 (upto

 September, 2013) and the post-ban period covering the years 2014, 2015

 and 2016. Consolidated summary of Royalty and Cost of mineral due to be recovered

 from lessees: 3.1 Post Ban Period – Royalty Calculations: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 355. For a similar reason, the total stock of 1.4 Crore MTs of BSMs

 found by the Reassessment Committee in 2021-2022 and reported in RR-

 2023 could not be from the balance of raw sand left with the mining

 companies, at the time of the ban in August-September, 2013 and should

 be declared fully illegal. 356. In sum, the entire stock of 1.5 Crore MTs of BSM stock found by

 Sahoo Committee, in 2018 and the stock of 1.40 Crore MTs of BSM stocks

 found by the RR – 2023, should be held to be totally illegal and the legal

 consequence of such a finding of on illegally mined and processed BSMs

 will have to follow. (D) Role of Officials: 357. A scam as huge as this is unseen in the history of Tamil Nadu

 and this unfortunate offence at the cost of natural resources would have

 been highly impossible without the active collusion of the officials across

 different departments of the Government. This Court is shaken on coming

 across findings in the reports stating as to how our National security was put

 at risk through the irresponsible and malafide actions of the officials and the

 lessees. This Court would be failing in its constitutional duty, if it remains a

 mute spectator when our National wealth and resources are put at risk. A Page 205 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 thorough and detailed probe into the allegations of the Government officials

 involvement in this major scam is inevitable. 358. Any reasonable man cannot deny the involvement of officials in

 this illegal mining keeping the backdrop of the facts and findings in this

 case. The brazenness with which this illicit action was done shows the level

 of support found in the then Government administration during the period

 when illegalities was perpetrated. The political patronage to this huge scam

 cannot be ruled out. This Court has witnessed cases, where officials find

 shelter in unavoidable systemic delays and by the time the issue comes to

 the fore, the perpetrators walk away legally unscathed. The Officials

 involved in the scam, irrespective of the positions they hold in the system

 ought to be inquired and requisite action should be taken including

 disciplinary action and criminal prosecution or both as the case may be. 359. This exploitation of natural resources at the cost of people’s life,

 health and National revenue is not a child’s play. Already the environmental

 damage today is becoming a cause of international concern and adding to

 that, just to satiate the greed of a few, the future of our natural resources

 and human life cannot be put in jeopardy. It is agonising to see the amount

 of loss to the State exchequer. The amount of public money left uncollected Page 206 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 by the officials due to their neglect/ corruption/ collusion is nothing short of

 breach of Public trust. The Government Officials involved in this scam have

 betrayed the people of Tamil Nadu and have done great disservice to the

 Nation. The total amount of royalty to be paid by the lessees as derived by

 the Amicus comes to the tune of Rs.5832.29 Crores. The public revenue

 loss is unimaginable. The people could have benefited from this revenue in

 innumerable ways through good infrastructure, education, medical facilities,

 welfare schemes and so forth. Instead it went into the pockets of law

 evaders and law breakers due to the inaction of the Government officials

 concerned. 360. The most shocking details that emerge from the findings is that,

 inspite of the ban on illegal mining in Tamil Nadu, the offence was ongoing

 with the connivance of the officials in-charge. The illegal transportation,

 storage and export was taking place and the Sahoo report exposes the

 reduction of the stock in godowns and the Reassessment Report also

 reveals that the offence was unstoppable. The CCTV cameras installed

 were damaged and the sealed godowns were left unmonitored thereby

 allowing for theft of the illegally mined sand. There has been a complete

 failure on the part of District administration by being a mute spectator. Page 207 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 361. This seems to be an organised method of illegalities committed

 for over a decade. The conduct of the lessees and inactions adopted by the

 officials exhibit ways, in which there has been exploitation of the loopholes

 in the system. It is saddening that the system had watched its own officials

 plunge down into the rabbit hole of corruption one by one.

 (1) Contradictory Reports: 362. There was a Joint Inspection conducted pursuant to directions

 by the Director of Environment and Forest, Government of India, New Delhi.

 This report has recorded that M/s.V.V.Mineral has complied with all

 requirements of MMDR Act and Rules and indulged in no illegal mining and

 has also complied with Environmental Clearances. 363. It is pertinent to point out that the Principal Secretary to the

 Government of Tamil Nadu in his counter dated December 2016 has

 categorically stated that this report has not been authorised by the

 Government and hence, it should not be taken on record. 364. The Government of Tamil Nadu has stated that it could not have

 been possible for the Joint Inspection team to have conducted a detailed

 study on illicit mining of Beach Sand Minerals in 4 days. It is stated that the Page 208 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Government does not accept this report, as they have already constituted a

 special team headed by Mr. Gagandeep Singh Bedi, IAS and the report has

 also been submitted to the Court. The counter has also pointed out that the

 findings of the Joint Inspection team that the mining lessees have obtained

 licences from AERB and mining has been carried out as per approved

 mining plans, is not supported by any documents. The Report has stated

 that all royalty has been paid and exports are within limits, without verifying

 the reconciled statement of State Government and without the export

 details. On the contrary, the Principal Secretary to the Government of Tamil

 Nadu has pointed that the District Level Committee constituted by the

 District Collector, Tirunelveli, as per G.O.Ms.No.179, Industries (MMD.1)

 Department, dated 27.07.2015 on 18.10.2016 and 09.11.2016 reported

 excess quantum of raw sand, Garnet, Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon, Sillimanite,

 and Leucoxene against the quantity permitted in the approved mining plan /

 approved scheme of mining were transported by M/s.V.V.Mineral in respect

 of their 20 mining leases out of 27 areas. In view of the violations detected,

 the royalty account for the period 2000-2001 to 2015-2016 shall be

 construed to be null and void. Hence, the finding of the Joint Committee that

 the transported minerals already suffered royalty is not correct. The

 accounts of M/s.Transworld Garnet India Private Ltd, M/s.Beach Mineral

 Sand Company, M/s.Indian Ocean Garnet Sand Company are all in the Page 209 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 same line. It is stated that the State Government has not granted any

 permission to carry out inspection after the ban of beach sand mining in the

 State. 365. Based on the Amicus Curiae report findings, it is clear that these

 inspection reports reveal a certain degree of false findings trying to divert

 the issues and subvert crucial wrongdoings. From the narration above, it is

 evident that, though it does appear that between 2003 and 2015, there were

 as many as 10 inspection reports, a closer examination reveals that actual

 field based verification and detailed examination of records was undertaken

 only in the reports dated May, 2007 and Mr.Gagandeep Singh Bedi Report.

 Further, these are the only two reports, which was undertaken by senior

 officers of the State. The other inspection were conducted by officials at a

 subordinate level, whose failure to perform duties has resulted in such large

 scale illegal mining. Moreover, though the other reports mention that they

 have undertaken field inspections, the content of the reports do not reflect

 the same. The entire exercise in the other reports was limited to the

 allegations in the complaints and providing a response to the same. Hence,

 the reliance placed by the Respondents on these irregular reports cannot be

 accepted. It was completely unreasonable on the part of the officials

 involved in these inspections to claim that there was no illegal mining and Page 210 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 that no violations were committed. This finding cannot be accepted in the

 light of tonnes of evidences unearthed by the Special teams constituted by

 the Government, who have expertise and knowledge and indulged in

 extensive method of surveying and field inspection before submitting the

 report. When the findings and evidences on the face of it reveal the massive

 scale of illegal mining, it is impossible to even assume otherwise. The entire

 illegalities was committed right under the watch of the State Government

 officials and they failed to take any action and chose to stay silent. Some

 officials have gone a step further by denying any such illegal

 mining/transportation/storage to have taken place. 366. To deny any knowledge of a scam as huge as this, which is an

 organised crime and planned to the tee at all levels in terms of executions

 by bending and subverting the laws of the land is unheard of. This is deeply

 disturbing and alarming. Hence, the officials who have claimed that no

 allegations have taken place inspite of repeated complaints received by

 them and the officials, who have submitted reports with untrue and false

 findings claiming no illegal mining has taken place inspite of having

 knowledge about the same, should be brought to the book and enquired

 about their involvement in this scam. Any such nexus between the

 perpetrators and officials, who submitted reports with false findings denying Page 211 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 illegal mining in the area, where offence was committed must be

 ascertained. Giving false inspection reports is degrading the position of

 office held by them and strict action must be taken against officials, who for

 a certain consideration in return sided with the wrongdoers, thereby trying to

 bury the issue. (2) Stages of Neglect/ In-Action/ Corruption of Officials': 367. A high level Probe needs to be instituted to examine how mining

 approvals were given and to fix accountability for the same. Considering the

 high value of the minerals and the advantages gained by being permitted to

 mine a higher quantity of minerals, the probe should also explore

 possibilities of different types of influences leading to the granting of

 approvals of mining plans on the part of officials of IBM and AMD. The

 highest levels of officials in the decision making chain should be personally

 held liable for decisions found to be of doubtful or questionable nature. 368. The failure of the State departments including the Industries

 Department and the Department of Geology and Mining of the Tamil Nadu

 Government to exercise constant vigil and cross check claims of mining

 companies against the official documents has cost a lot for the State. There

 has been a collapse of the entire monitoring mechanisms in terms of Page 212 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 keeping a check on illegal mining. This being a crucial sector of revenue for

 the Government, it is highly essential that the monitoring agencies and

 executive mechanisms are strengthened and upgraded to suit the current

 technological developments. 369. A reading of the report findings reveal total failure on the part of

 District Mines officials to check as to whether the Transport Permits they

 have been issuing over the years, are according to the approved Mining

 Plan/Scheme of Mining and the approved quantities permitted to be

 transported. Considering the massive scale of unlawful transport of raw

 sand and the different beach minerals, it is apparent that the district mines

 officials have at no time bothered to check the Approved Mining Plans and

 Scheme of Mining. What is shocking is that the District Collector, who

 annually arrives at a reconciliation of Royalty payments which requires

 examining Transport Permits, have also over the years, failed in their duty to

 reconcile the quantum of raw sand and minerals transported against the

 quantum of such minerals approved in the Mining Plans and Scheme of

 Mining. Considering the quantum of unlawfully mined minerals and the huge

 financial loss this entails, it is important that a extensive probe is instituted

 into this issue. Page 213 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 370. The Show Cause notices issued by IBM officials clearly reveals

 that, even as far back as in 2006 - 07 itself, they were fully aware of the

 brazen and open violation of the laws by the mining companies. As noted

 before, in some cases, the illegally transported raw sand production was

 sometimes 14 to 18 times more than the quantity permitted to be

 transported. Yet apart from giving token notices, the IBM officials did

 nothing to strictly enforce the law. 371. As rightly raised in the Amicus Curiae report, the moot question

 is, as to whether the inaction of the officials to enforce the law is sheer

 inaction and indifference or did it arose from collusion with mining

 companies. This aspect requires detailed investigation by the investigating

 agencies. 372. The Amicus Curiae report reveals that the inaction of the State

 Government officials, despite evidence of the numerous illegalities

 committed by the mining companies in general, and more particularly

 M/s.V.V.Mineral and other mining companies controlled by

 Mr.S.Vaikuntarajan or being run by close family members, is very obviously

 the result of considerable influence wielded by 8th and 22nd Respondent and

 the close nexus with the decision makers in the highest levels of Page 214 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 bureaucracy and political executive. Further study of the Amicus Curiae

 report divulges crucial findings about inclusion of Monazite and four atomic

 minerals to the existing mining leases of the mining companies. At the

 instance of a mere request to the Government, the above unauthorised and

 illegal inclusion of Monazite to the existing lease of the private lessees was

 carried out by the State Government. 373. This ought to be probed in detail and the Amicus Curiae report

 findings pinpoint at a political nexus angle, which needs in-depth

 investigation. Political patrons involved in this must be brought into the zone

 of enquiry and if resulted in adverse findings, then strict legal prosecution

 based on the same must be effectuated. 374. A serious probe needs to be undertaken, as to understand the

 modus operandi adopted by the illegal miners to clandestinely transport and

 export the minerals despite the ban imposed. Inspite of the widespread

 knowledge of banning of BSM mining in Tamil Nadu with effect from August

 2013, the Customs and Port Authorities continued to permit large scale

 exports during the said period. The Customs claims lack of intimation about

 the said ban. This lack of coordination and inaccess to crucial information

 ought to be addressed by creating a common digital platform carrying Page 215 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 informations on mining, approvals, licences, storage, transport permits and

 exports, which can be accessed by all the Government departments and

 monitored by a central system. Transparency must be ensured. 375. The collusion/inaction of the officials to this entire process must

 be enquired and the way in which law was circumvented to get the requisite

 mining approval, transport permits, custom clearance must be examined

 and adequate measures to fool proof the system must be adopted. 376. There has been a lapses on the part of the IBM and DAE in

 granting approval of mining leases, which allowed mining in inter tidal zone

 inspite of CRZ notification and clearance prohibiting the same.

 2.1 Role of Officials in Royalty Settlement Proceedings Must be

 Investigated: The method followed for computing royalty based on raw sand transported

 for Tirunelveli District was also applied in Thoothukudi District as well. 379. Also the royalty settlement proceedings prior to 2012-2013 were

 made under Rule 64D of MCR, 1960. The sudden change in the procedure

 adopted by the District mining department and endorsed by the District

 Collectors by fixing royalty on raw sand (ROM) under Rule 64 B(2) has not

 been explained in the Royalty settlement proceedings. Hence, based on the

 records and reports presented before this Court, it is more than apparent on

 the face of the records that without the active and conscious collusion of the

 officials, especially at the highest levels, such a major BSM scam, as

 massive as this, would have been highly improbable.

 (3) Accountability and Transparency: 380. Each and every public servant receiving salary from tax payers

 money is accountable to the citizens of this country. Officials across all

 departments are answerable to the complaints before them. Any inaction or Page 218 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 neglect on the part of these officials shall be dealt with seriously by the

 District Collectors and in the event of any inaction on the part of concerned

 District Collectors, appropriate action against the Collectors shall be initiated

 by the Government. 381. The District Collectors are responsible and accountable for any

 illicit mining happening in their district. They are responsible for the efficient

 functioning of the Mining Department in the District concerned and any non-

 compliance with the provisions of MMDR Act and its corresponding Rules

 must be dealt with strict legal action. Any complaints on illegal mining

 received, ought to be dealt by the competent authorities and the ultimate

 accountability is on the District Collectors. 382. When officials fail to act on complaints and remain mute

 spectator to the wrong doings happening, it is not only

 unconstitutional, but erodes public confidence, thereby leading to

 systemic dissolution. Power has been constitutionally granted to the

 executive to act for the protection and benefit of the public and any

 omission to act is in itself unconstitutional. 383. Fixation of accountability is of primacy in the issue on hand. Page 219 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Sand mining has become uncontrollable and unless accountability is fixed,

 the officials tend to wriggle away from their responsibilities. It is surprising

 that this unfortunate illegality has been going on for decades irrespective of

 the change in governance. There appears to be a clear political nexus in

 this and the investigating agencies must investigate thoroughly to cull out

 the perpetrators. The illegal sand mining in the State of Tamil Nadu is

 operating in the form of a sand Mafia, a completely organised crime, with

 money power and political power. 384. Activist and journalists have not been given adequate protection

 by the District Administration. When officials fail in their duties, the common

 man rises to the occasion to expose the illegalities committed. But the

 officials only end up giving a tough time to them and many of the activists

 operate sans any Police protection. It is the obligation of the District

 Administration including the Collector and Superintendent of Police to

 provide adequate protection and ensure safety of the people, who come

 forward to report about illegal sand mining. Failure to guarantee protection

 to people, who come forward to report on sand mining crimes will entail

 strict action against the concerned officials including the Superintendent of

 Police of the concerned district. Page 220 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 385. This Court is forced to fix accountability on the topmost officials

 today because for years, the State Government has failed to hold the

 officials accountable inspite of the numerous orders passed by this Court,

 directing the Government to fix accountability on those incharge. Hence, this

 Court holds that the District Collector shall be the responsible officer to

 ensure that illegal sand mining is prevented in their concerned districts. The

 District Collectors shall take all necessary action to put an immediate stop to

 illegal sand mining across all districts in the State of Tamil Nadu. Any failure

 to do so, shall invite prosecution, under the relevant laws in force against

 the District Collector concerned. 386. Any reports of crime pertaining to illegal mining and transporting

 of raw sand shall be viewed seriously by the Superintendent of Police in the

 concerned district and inaction on their part shall invite similar legal action. 387. This Court is astonished, as to how the authorities failed to take

 any responsibility for this decade-long illegalities perpetrated by the sand

 Mafia. This Court wonders, how they are able to turn a blind eye and remain

 mute spectators, when loads of illegally mined sand are transported across

 borders without any checks and this Court feels it to be an unjustifiable act

 on the part of the officials incharge. The Department of Geology and Mining Page 221 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 must own up and take responsibility. Even in the latest report submitted in

 2021 (Reassessment Report) there has been an estimate of shortfall of

 stocks of raw sand from sealed godowns. Further, additional fresh stock of

 illegally mined raw sand has also been reported in the inspection. This is

 after the ban of mining was effected way back in August, 2013. So this

 shows that till 2021-2022, the illegality was still carrying on. This shows the

 blatant disregard for the orders of this Court. 388. Corruption in mining has become a norm and has been

 standardised by the officials involved. A pattern can be drawn from these

 illicit sand mining operations. The triangular link is undeniable here between

 the political, executive and the mining lessees. It has become a systemic

 corruption. X. Conclusion: 389. This issue has been agitated for nearly a decade. The

 Respondents are trying to use the judicial process to wriggle away from the

 consequences arising out of their illegal actions. Committee after committee

 formed and re-agitating on the same point of issue will not pave any way to

 the ends to justice. In the eyes of this Court, the Bedi Committee, Sahoo

 Committee, Reassessment Committee and the learned Amicus Curiae have Page 222 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 carried out a fair and impartial task in inspecting and evaluating the extent

 and quantum of illegal beach sand mining carried out. 390. By seeking formation of more new committees and by alleging

 bias on the existing ones is a mere abuse of judicial process. When the

 committee have carried out a fair task, making vague, whimsical allegations

 for protracting the process will meet no viable result. The attitude of the

 Private Respondents raises doubts, as to whether this is a strategy adopted

 by them to prolong the process. Ultimately, the core issue is whether illegal

 beach sand mining/transportation had taken place, if so, to what extent and

 what are the damages/loss incurred. 391. An examination of the various committee reports and the Amicus

 Curiae reports prove the case of illegal beach sand mining. The

 methodology adopted by the committee on careful examination by this Court

 is free from bias and is not in transgression of natural justice principles. And

 the reports have been elaborately made after inspection. The Amicus

 Curiae appointed by this Court also based on a separate and detailed report

 has uncovered the presence of Monazite in the mined minerals, which is

 prescribed substance under the Atomic Energy Act and the mining

 companies have no right to deal with the same. Page 223 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 392. The committees have outlined various other illegalities and

 irregularities in transport, storage and dealing of these illegally mined beach

 sand minerals, thereby causing a grave danger to the environment. 393. It is to be noted that there are a plethora of judgements on the

 issue of illegal sand mining, guidelines to be followed, measures to be

 taken, enforcement mechanisms so on and so forth. But it would be an

 understatement to say that this has not been effectively adopted or followed

 by the implementing officials at the ground level. There are many ways

 prescribed by various agencies, departments and the Government to curb

 illegal beach sand mining including legal frameworks such as the MMDR

 Act , various other environmental legislations, Sustainable Sand Mining

 Management Guidelines (SSMG) 2020, Enforcement and Monitoring

 Guidelines for Sand Mining (EMGSM) 2020. But the core question for

 consideration is why can’t the illegal sand mining be stopped inspite of the

 humongous Government resources, funds and time spent to draft these

 legislations, measures and guidelines. The simple answer that can be

 deduced through the careful examination of the records and reports before

 us reveals the large scale corruption and collusion across departments,

 officials and bureaucracy. A systemic implementation failure has paved way Page 224 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 for the huge loss to the National and State exchequer, which ought to be

 remedied at the earliest. Stringent and strict actions are the need of the hour

 to curb the illegalities and irregularities proliferating from illegal beach sand

 mining. 394. The scale and magnitude of the lorries unlawfully transporting

 illegally mined raw sand and minerals across districts without any lawful

 obstruction in place, to stop this crime, is mind boggling and disheartening.

 Natural resources being exploited is one thing, but when done beyond

 legally permissible limit to benefit a handful of people at the expense of the

 National economic interest and affecting the Country’s overall growth and at

 the cost of people’s livelihood has shaken the conscience of this Court.

 These are issues which need to be dealt with at the earliest and the way in

 which our Judicial process has been used to thwart the law from taking the

 right course of action is discernible from the endless litigations filed across

 different courts. Litigating and re-litigating on the same issues and trying to

 weave knot after knot till nobody knows how to unknot it. This modus

 seldom paves any benefit. It eventually itself becomes a point of accusation

 against the law breakers. Law can be bent. True. But it bends only for

 Justice. Our Nation is great in a way that Laws cannot be a mute spectator

 for long. Conscience and Spirit of our Courts cannot be doused easily and Page 225 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 our Constitution keeps the heartbeat alive to ensure that People of this

 Country can never be wronged. 395. The findings of both the Bedi committee report and the Amicus

 Curiae report are shocking and the layer by layer violations across different

 spectrums in the Governance is disturbing and requires a thorough multi

 disciplinary investigation to unearth the perpetrators involved in this

 horrendous war against nature. 396. Our Great Nation has a mineral rich coastline, which is our

 National Wealth. The natural resources in our country, which we are proud

 of ought to be protected at all costs. It is not only the question of

 environmental damages that can be caused, but it is also our National

 wealth that needs protection. It is also important to state that due to the

 immense mineral wealth, which we possess, mining is an important facet of

 Indian economy. Mining sector is a contributor to the growing Indian

 economy. Therefore, the violations and breaches of the mining laws will

 have huge implications on the National economy. The mineral wealth ought

 to be protected on one hand and the legally permitted mining, which is a

 contributor to the Indian economy ought to be monitored and audited

 regularly. When the officials involved in this process indulge in Page 226 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 corruption/collusion or negligence, it will throttle our Nation’s economic

 growth. 397. Executive is the lifeline of a healthy economy. Even if a single

 cell is malignant, then the entire system becomes cancerous. To prevent

 any further multiplication of the illegalities, the cancerous cells ought to be

 removed at the earliest. Identification and action against those involved in

 this systemic violations, irrespective of the position they hold, is imminent.

 Hence, this Court has come to an irresistible conclusion and inclined to pass

 the following directions in the interest of Equity, Justice and good

 Conscience: (d) The report of the Special Team headed by Mr.Satyabrata Sahoo,
 I.A.S., and findings on the quantum of stocks kept with the private
 respondents to the tune of 1.50 Crore M.T in the three districts is
 held to be legally valid. (e) The quantum of BSMs unlawfully mined and transported by the
 private respondents during the pre-ban period as estimated by the
 Learned Amicus Curiae in his first report dated 20.06.2017 is held
 valid. (f) The quantum of minerals illegally exported by the private
 respondents during the post-ban period i.e. from January 2014 to
 December 2016 as estimated by the Learned Amicus is held valid. (g) The methodology adopted by the Amicus Curiae about illegal
 mining of BSMs by using Three way method and the Reverse
 calculation method is held valid. (h) The second report filed by the Learned Amicus Curie in the year Page 228 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 2018 in response to findings of the Sahoo Committee report and
 declaring the entire stocks kept with the private respondents in the
 three districts as illegally mined, transported and stored one is held
 valid. (i) The third report and findings of the Learned Amicus filed in the
 year 2019 estimating the quantum of revenue loss caused to the
 state exchequer to be recovered from the private respondents to
 the tune of Rs.5,832 Crores towards the cost of the minerals and
 royalty for the quantum of minerals unlawfully mined, stored,
 transported and exported during the post-ban period is held legally
 valid. (j) The findings of the Reassessment Report submitted to the
 Government in the year 2023 to the effect that a total quantum of
 1.40 Crore M.T of stocks were available with the private
 respondents as illegally mined stocks in the three districts is held
 valid. (k) The premature termination of BSM mining leases by invoking Section 4A(1) and 4A(3) of MMDR Act, 1957 in terms of the
 directives dated 01.03.2019 issued by the Ministry of Mines,
 Government of India is held valid in law. (l) The second report and findings of the Learned Amicus on the
 huge quantum of Monazite contained in the stocks of all the
 private respondents in the three districts is held valid. Page 229 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (m)The entire stocks of 1.4 Crore M.T as reassessed by the District
 Collectors in their Reassessment Report dated 28.11.2023,
 comprising processed mineral, semi processed mineral and raw
 sand and the stocks having huge presence of Monazite, which is a
 prescribed substance under the Atomic Energy Act, 1962 is held
 valid. (n) The request of the State Government for handing over of the
 entire stocks held by the mining companies to IREL India Limited
 is granted. Hence the entire stocks of raw sand, processed or
 semi-processed BSMs held by the Lessees/ Mining companies,
 which are sealed in godowns, factories, stockyards and premises
 of the mining companies is directed to be handed over to IREL
 India Limited forthwith. (o) The actions of the State Government on inclusion of not only
 Monazite but also other atomic minerals like Leucoxene, Zircon
 and Sillimanite to the existing mining leases of the private
 respondent companies without the prior permission of the Central
 Government is held invalid. (p) The Public Notice No.50 of 2016 dated 23.11.2016 issued by the
 Customs department to verify the source of BSMs and for
 production of requisite certificate from the District Collectors
 certifying legal source of minerals to permit export under section
 50 of the Customs Act, 1962 is held valid. Page 230 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (q) The royalty accounts as settled by the District Collectors of
 Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari computing the royalty
 for the quantum of raw sand transport by arbitrarily applying Rule
 64-B(2), MCR in favour of M/s.V.V.Mineral (R8), M/s.Transworld
 Garnet India Private Limited (R9) and M/s.Industrial Mineral India
 Private limited (R13) is held legally invalid. (r) The royalty accounts wrongfully settled by the District Collector of
 Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari by computing royalty
 for raw sand transported by wrongful application of Rule 64-B(2) of
 MCR, 1960 in respect of M/s.V.V.Mineral (R8), M/s.Transworld
 Garnet India Private Limited (R9) and M/s.Industrial Mineral India
 Private Limited (R13), unsettled by the State Government is held
 valid. (s) The computation of royalty on ad valorem basis for the actual
 quantum of minerals sold/ exported under the provisions of Section 9(2) read with Second Schedule of the MMDR Act and
 Rule 64-D of MCR, 1960 in the light of third report of the Amicus,
 is held legally valid. (t) The State Government is directed to initiate all necessary actions
 to recover the cost of minerals and royalty as per the findings in
 the Amicus Report relating to post ban period which held the 1.5
 crore MTs of BSMs found by Sahoo Committee in 2018 and the
 stock of 1.40 Crore MTs of BSM stocks found by the RR-2023 as
 illegally mined and processed and hence all legal consequence to
 that effect shall follow. Page 231 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (u) It is also undeniably established from the discussions above
 that Right from the grant of mining lease/approval/license to
 grant of transport permits to illegal inclusion of monazite in
 mining lease to lack of efficient monitoring to arbitrary and
 legally questionable royalty settlement proceedings to lack of
 initiation of appropriate action when required and complete
 shedding of accountability on the part of the officials
 concerned, top to bottom, across departments and executive
 spectrum, there appears on the face of it a scheme of
 collusion, corruption and connivance among political,
 executive and the private mining lessees. The involvement of
 Government officials and illegalities perpetrated by them
 including political nexus in support of this scam should be
 investigated thoroughly. This is an imminent necessity to
 prevent corrosion of public trust in the system. (v) In the light of above discussions, this Court finds it a fit case to
 refer the matter to CBI. Hence based on the findings in the
 Committee reports discussed above and based on all other
 materials available on record, the CBI is directed to register
 criminal cases and launch investigations. Also any pending cases
 relating to the issues discussed in this judgment registered by the
 Tamil Nadu Police is directed to be transferred to the CBI for
 enabling effective investigation. All related case files shall be
 handed over to the CBI within a period of four weeks.

 (w)The Director, CBI shall constitute required number of Special Page 232 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Investigation Teams, consisting of officials with expertise and High
 integrity to conduct the investigations into this scam. Further, The
 Director, CBI is directed to monitor the investigation of the SITs to
 be constituted. (x) The key issues that needs to be investigated includes: Hence the the CBI is directed to investigate into the alleged
 political nexus and the role of the policy making authorities in
 conspiring with the private mining companies shall be
 investigated. Page 233 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 (6) A multi disciplinary probe is also required to enquire into the
 crucial findings of high concentration of monazite found in the
 processed stocks and whether such a prescribed substance
 was exported by the mining companies ought to be
 investigated, since it is a matter concerning National security.

 (7) The illegal inclusion of Monazite by the State Government
 without the prior sanction of the Central Government as
 statutorily required needs to be investigated to cull out any
 political-executive-private mining companies nexus in this
 issue. (8) Apart from the key issues discussed above, the CBI can further
 expand the investigations on all other aspects pertaining to this
 case and file final report before the Jurisdictional Court.

 (9) Considering the high economic value of the illegal mining and
 export and since the scale of financial loss to the State
 Exchequer runs to thousands of crores, the Government of
 India is directed to scrutinise into all the financial and
 commercial transactions of the Respondent mining Companies
 dealing with BSMs and refer the matter for investigation to the
 Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department, Customs
 and Excise Department and Commercial Taxes Department
 and by any other competent agencies as required. (10) Based on the investigation, the Government of Tamil Nadu
 and the Government of India, as the case may be, are directed Page 234 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 to initiate suitable departmental disciplinary proceedings
 simultaneously against the officials involved in the scam.

 (11) Liberty is granted to any person to initiate contempt
 proceedings in the event of violation of any of the directions
 issued by this Court in the present Judgment. 398. Accordingly, the Writ Petition stands disposed of. Consequently,

 connected Miscellaneous Petitions are closed. There shall be no order as to

 costs. Note: The Registry is directed to communicate the copy of this order to; 1. The Director, Central Bureau Investigation,
 Plot No.5-B, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road,
 New Delhi – 110 003. 2. The Joint Director and Head of Zone,
 3rd Floor, E.V.K., Sampath Building,
 College Road, Chennai – 600 006. Page 235 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 To 1.The Secretary to Government,
 Union of India,
 Government of India,
 Ministry of Mines, D Wing,
 3rd Floor, Shastri Bhavan,
 New Delhi-1. 2.The Secretary to Government,
 Government of India,
 Department of Atomic Energy,
 Anushakthi Bhawan, C.S.M.Marg
 Mumbai-1. 3.The Secretary to Government,
 Government of India,
 Ministry of Environment and Forests,
 Pariyavaran Bhavan, CGO Complex,
 Lodhi Road, New Delhi-3. 4. The Regional Controller of Mines,
 Indian Bureau of Mines,
 Rajaji Bhavan,
 Chennai-90 5.The Chief Secretary to Government,
 The State of Tamil Nadu,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Fort St.George, Chennai-9. 6.The Secretary to Government,
 Industries Department,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Fort St. George, Chennai-9. 7.The Commissioner of Geology and Mining,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Guindy, Chennai-32, Tamil Nadu. 8.The Member Secretary,
 Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), Page 236 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 Panagal Maaligai,
 76, Mount Salai, Guindy, Chennai 600 032. 9.The Principal Secretary,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Ministry of Environment and Forests,
 Fort St.George, Chennai 600 009. 10.The Director, Central Bureau Investigation,
 Plot No.5-B, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road,
 New Delhi – 110 003. 11.The Joint Director and Head of Zone,
 3rd Floor, E.V.K., Sampath Building,
 College Road, Chennai – 600 006. Page 237 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 S.M.SUBRAMANIAM, J. and
 M.JOTHIRAMAN, J. JENI/GD SUO MOTU W.P.No.1592 of 2015 17.02.2025 Page 238 of 238 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis