“I used to think that if this does not end, the next step for me will be suicide,” Karan, a 26-year-old from Indore, told MediaNama. It all started when he installed an instant loan app in October 2020 after seeing an ad on Youtube. Facing financial difficulties, Karan took out a loan for Rs. 3000 with a repayment period of 7 days through the app.

Within 4 days, customer executives of the app started calling him, asking him to pay. Due to exploitative interest rates, his repayment amount was Rs. 6000, and in order to pay it, he decided to take out another loan from a different app, for which he would have to repay Rs. 9000.

I was trapped in the cycle for two months, and eventually, just to pay off my Rs. 3000 loan, I paid somewhere between Rs. 70,000 to 80,000 to different loan apps. I sold my bike, my family’s gold, I was in a very bad situation. — Karan

Karan recalls that the ad on Youtube painted a flowery image – an instant loan for Rs. 50,000 and a duration of 12 months, with a small interest amount. When he opened the app, however, the actual loan duration was 7 days, and the approved loan amount was just Rs. 3000.  While Facebook and Google’s ad policies disallow such loan apps from advertising, many such ads have snuck under their radar amid the pandemic to target vulnerable Indians like Karan.

Digital ads are not regulated by the Indian government, and social media platforms have little incentive to turn down ad revenue. Predatory loan apps in India benefit from this status quo, trapping gullible Indians with misleading ads on popular social media platforms.

Pugalyendhi Gautham is a busy man at SaveThem India, a foundation started in March 2020 to counter the lending apps problem in India. Currently, he works with 1,300 victims on a regular basis, roughly 30 of whom he has talked out of suicide*.

SaveThem India has, in 16 months of existence, received over 55,000 calls from victims of harassment from lending apps. Here are some of the common harassment techniques that loan apps use to recover money, documented by SaveThem India in screenshots and recordings accessed by MediaNama:

Calls from a collection agent made between 3AM and 6AM. Source: SaveThem India

A collection agent threatens to create a Whatsapp group of the borrower’s contacts. Source: SaveThem India

Fake legal notice sent to a borrower. Source: SaveThem India

Predatory lending apps that harass victims are still readily available on the Play Store. Google is introducing new policies for India to filter such apps from the Play Store this month, MediaNama reported earlier. That, however, is only one piece of the puzzle. Lending apps are increasingly focusing less on the Play Store to get discovered, relying instead on alternative channels like SMS and social media advertising.

To lure unsuspecting borrowers, predatory lending apps advertise on popular social media platforms like Youtube, Facebook, and Instagram. Ads for these apps have even appeared on apps like Truecaller and Zomato (through integrations with the Facebook Audience Network and Google Ads).

Loan apps advertising on social media often run misleading or downright fake ads. Here are some ways in which these ad banners carry misleading content –

A loan app uses Modi’s image for an ad on YouTube

A loan app misuses bank logos on a Youtube ad

CashBus India misuses the IDBI Bank logo and advertises an effective interest rate of 0.25% over 12 months on an Instagram ad.

As a consequence of Google and Facebook’s dominance in the digital marketing space, most ads, whether on Instagram, Youtube or Zomato, are governed by their ad policies. Both companies have specific policies to prevent such advertisements:

Google’s Ad Policy: Google’s ad policy has multiple clauses under which such ads should not be allowed, including specific policies for personal loan apps:

While the ad policies are comprehensive, most of the ads accessed by MediaNama that ran on Youtube and the Play Store violated at least one, if not multiple, of these policies.

In a statement responding to questions sent by MediaNama, a Google spokesperson pointed to the newly implemented advertiser identity verification programme, under which advertisers on Google will be required to submit their legal name and proof of identity:

In 2020, our investments in policies and enforcement blocked or removed approximately 3.1 billion ads for violating our policies and restricted an additional 6.4 billion ads. — Google spokesperson

Facebook’s Ad Policy: Facebook has clarified under its ad policies that the review process relies on automated tools to check for a violation. Here are Facebook’s ad policies relevant for loan app advertisements:

Personal loan apps running on Facebook and Instagram, seen by MediaNama, have used logos of IDBI Bank and Union Bank of India, clearly violating the ‘misleading claims’ clause of the policy. Multiple ads also advertise loan apps that have a repayment period of under 90 days.

In a response to questions sent by MediaNama, a Facebook spokesperson said:

Reviewing ads from millions of advertisers globally against our Advertising Policies is essential, but it is not without challenges. Our enforcement isn’t perfect, and both machines and people make mistakes. We also have reporting so that people can let us know if they believe an ad violates our policies. — Facebook Spokesperson

*Disclaimer: If you or someone you know is experiencing thoughts of suicide, please call one of the helpline numbers listed here or contact a mental health professional.

Also read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event