By way of this petition under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India, the petitioner has prayed for the following
reliefs :- 2.1 After registration of the said FIR, an investigation has
been concluded wherein the petitioner came to be arrested and
later on, came to be released on bail by learned Sessions Judge,
Vadodara in Criminal Misc. (GPID) Application No. 7 of 2009 vide
order dated 08.02.2019. A charge-sheet has also been filed in
which the petitioner has been shown as an accused person. 2.2 It is the case of the petitioner that apart from whatever
statements have been recorded during the course of his police
custody, no officer including the police authorities ever asked or
inquired anything about the source of funds for purchase of two Page 2 of 6 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 06 07:04:19 IST 2021 C/SCA/6751/2021 ORDER DATED: 24/06/2021

flats which are ordered to be attached, reflecting at serial nos. 4
and 5 of the impugned order dated 08.01.2019. Neither any
opportunity was given nor any show cause notice was given and
straightway, an order came to be passed effecting attachment over
the properties of the petitioner. It is the case of the petitioner that
the flat at serial No.4 came to be purchased in the year 2013 for a
consideration of Rs.4.15 Lacs, whereas the flat at serial No.5 was
purchased in the year 2018 for a consideration of Rs.29.50 Lacs. In
substance, a grievance is raised against the properties attached by
the impugned order. 2.3 This has led the petitioner to submit an application
Exh.9 in GPID Criminal Case No. 1 of 2019 for seeking stay against
execution of the impugned order dated 04.05.2019 passed by Sub-
Divisional Magistrate, Vadodara. The same was rejected by learned
Special Judge by order dated 09.07.2019 passed in Criminal Case
No. 1 of 2019. 2.4 The petitioner has filed the present petition for seeking
larger relief as contained in paragraph 7(b) challenging both the
orders, one passed by the authority which is published in gazette,
whereas another is passed by learned Special Judge, Vadodara in
the criminal case. Later on, upon initial hearing, learned advocate
Mr. Malkhan for the petitioner requested for some time to tender
the draft amendment which was granted vide order dated
10.06.2021, whereupon the petitioner has tendered the draft
amendment signed by learned advocate on 17.06.2021, wherein the
petitioner has restricted his relief qua the impugned order dated
08.01.2019 which is published in the government gazette and for
another order passed in Criminal Case No. 1 of 2019, challenge is
forgone, in present proceedings. C/SCA/6751/2021 ORDER DATED: 24/06/2021 3. With the aforesaid background, the petition came up
for consideration today before this Court wherein learned advocate
Mr. Malkhan has contended that the petitioner is not responsible
for commission of crime and as such, his residential flats, two in
number, could not have been ordered to be attached and therefore,
the exercise of jurisdiction by the authority is impermissible. Apart
from that, it has been contended that during the course of police
custody, no police authority ever asked or inquired from the
petitioner about the source of purchase of flats though the
petitioner had a ready answer which is mentioned in the present
petition about such purchase of the flats and therefore also, it has
been contended that the order in question is not sustainable as
suffers from vice of non-application of mind and based upon no
material recovered from the petitioner by the police authority. It
has further been contended that these flats were purchased by the
petitioner from the funds of his own salary as he was a Senior
Branch Manager of the Company way back in 2010 and when that
be so, in absence of any connection with the offence in question, no
order of attachment could have been passed. Learned advocate
Mr. Malkhan has also submitted that no opportunity was given to
the petitioner before passing the impugned order. Hence, a request
is made to set aside the impugned order in the interest of justice.
No other submissions have been made. 4. Having heard learned advocates appearing for the
respective parties and having gone through the material on record,
it appears that the authority in exercise of specific power under the
provisions of Gujarat Protection of Interest of Depositors (In
Financial Establishments) Act, 2003 and after taking into
consideration the documents of the criminal case and after
analyzing the situation, passed an order. It is not in dispute that
the petitioner was and is part and parcel of the company itself i. e. C/SCA/6751/2021 ORDER DATED: 24/06/2021

HVN Reality and Enterprises (I) Ltd.. 5. It is further reflecting from the order that a big scam
appears to have been undertaken in which a specific criminal case
is registered pursuant to thorough investigation, in which a charge-
sheet has also been filed in which the petitioner is shown as an
accused person wherein an inquiry was done with regard to the
source of funds about purchase of flats by the petitioner. It is a
matter of examination of facts which this Court would not like to
undertake. It is also not in dispute that during the course of
employment, the petitioner purchased the flats in question wherein
the first flat was purchased out of the salary received by the
petitioner from the company which has indulged in a serious scam
as is visible from the record. As such, in such a situation, when the
properties have been attached in connection with such serious
crime, this Court is not inclined to exercise an extraordinary
jurisdiction. It is further not in dispute that the petitioner against
whom a charge-sheet is filed, is shown as an accused in it and as
such, it is not possible to accept at this stage the stand which has
been taken by the petitioner. So far as the attachment order is
concerned, the authority has passed the same in due exercise of its
statutory function vested in law and there is no mala fide alleged
cogently reflecting from such exercise of jurisdiction. Therefore, in
such a situation, the principles of natural justice cannot be
stretched to that extent as if at every stage the petitioner is to be
granted an opportunity at length. The order is self-explanatory that
this attachment of the properties is in connection with the FIR
registered with CID Crime Branch, Vadodara Police Station,
pursuant to which, a criminal case has been registered and it has
clarified that these properties along with the series of other
properties are attached till further orders passed by the designated
court and therefore, when the designated court has clearly Page 5 of 6 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 06 07:04:19 IST 2021 C/SCA/6751/2021 ORDER DATED: 24/06/2021

disallowed the request and there is no challenge to the same in the
present proceedings. The petition in the present form is not
possible to be entertained by this Court. This dismissal of the
petition in exercise of extraordinary and equitable jurisdiction will
not deter the petitioner from challenging the order passed by
learned Special Judge, Vadodara on 09.07.2019 if permissible in an
independent proceedings which may be available to the petitioner.
But, in any case, this order under challenge is not illegal in view of
peculiar background of facts. Resultantly, the petition being devoid
of merits deserves to be dismissed. 6. One additional factor is that there are several disputed
questions of facts and such facts are not possible to be examined in
exercise of extraordinary jurisdiction in view of law laid down by
Hon'ble Apex Court in the decision reported in 2005 12 SCC 725
and in view of observations contained in the said decision also, this
is not a fit case in which the writ jurisdiction deserves to be
exercised. Even otherwise, in absence of any merit, the petition is
not entertainable. Accordingly, the same is dismissed with no order
as to cost. (ASHUTOSH J. SHASTRI, J)

cmk Page 6 of 6 Downloaded on : Mon Sep 06 07:04:19 IST 2021