SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Beware of trading / investing scams. Especially older family members falling prey to them. Educate your retired family members and ask them to be cautious.
DATE: 2023-09-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16pwvrq/beware_of_trading_investing_scams_especially/

--- POST TEXT ---

One of my friend's father recently lost around 85 lakhs to scamsters at [https://www.investmarkets.com/](https://www.investmarkets.com/). The setup of these scams is extremely professional with a large number of people involved. you'll have people attending webinars with you, in the telegram group, joining and participating in live sessions etc. But everything is fake

It starts with a minimum deposit of 200$, and they'll tell you they will match or give you 50% of whatever you deposit as trading money. A guy will be in constant touch with you giving you details on which trades to make on the site. This is another level of scam, since the money you deposit is not on the site, but into someone's bank account who inturn will credit the money into your trading account. But its not real, its all paper money which you will promptly lose once you follow the trades suggested to you. The trades are all forex options with no stoploss or stopprofit, and if you trade enough, you are guaranteed to lose all money. On top of this they will charge 20-30% fees on your winning and losing trades, so doesn't matter what you do, you will end up with a zero in your account. 

Worst of all, all the withdrawals must be approved by them before going through, which means you will never get your money back, even if you didn't make any trades. There are multiple stories where people asked for their money back only to have their account show zero balance the next day

And once you lose your initial investment, they will ask you to deposit more saying you can make back whatever you lost and more in just a few days. They will also 'upgrade' your membership from silver to gold to diamond to vip the more money you deposit. All the while, you have an entire ecosystem of people convincing you this is all real. They will show people who made successful trades that day, give awards to top earners that month etc

Ofcourse, it will all crumble once you understand this is fake and ask for your money back. But there's no money left, you lost it all in trades they'll say. But you can deposit 25 more lakhs and they'll upgrade you to super vip, which means you'll have access to all of the secret trading tips that'll earn you crores without any fees 

Scams like these are growing in number and they are preferentially target retirees and old people. This demographic of people have not adapted to the internet scams yet, and are easy prey. They are also bored which makes them quite vulnerable to trading or gambling scams. Please have a word with all your retired and old family members and ask them to consult other people before putting a lot of money anywhere. 

Its also important to let them know to cut their losses and be comfortable in approaching family members once they make a mistake. In many of these cases, the victim recognizes midway something is wrong. But he's already spent lakhs at that point and feels guilty and afraid to admit that to family, so instead chooses to spend even more money in hopes of recovering whats lost 

I never thought this could happen to someone i know. Now all their life savings are gone and are in quite a bit of debt. Fortunately my friend has a high paying job and can manage this. But some people's entire life would be destroyed by this