Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) is yet to finalise its recommendations on caller IDs, the Department of Telecommunication (DoT) has said in response to an RTI MediaNama filed. This is despite the fact that TRAI released recommendations suggesting that telecom companies should implement a caller name presentation system (CNAP) in February this year . CNAP provides users with the name of the person who is calling them, making it similar to a Caller ID service like Truecaller.

The regulator first suggested this service in 2022 . It had argued that caller IDs could help curb spam from unregistered telemarketers. To avoid these callers, telecom customers often avoid picking up calls which invariably causes them to miss genuine calls. Further, TRAI argued that spam-detecting apps like Truecaller rely on crowd-sourced data which is sometimes unreliable.

MediaNama filed an RTI with the DoT, asking the Government:

Rejecting MediaNama’s RTI request, the DoT gave us the following response in compliance with section 7 (8) of RTI Act 2005 :

“Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) has issued his recommendations on the introduction of Calling Name Presentation (CNAP) Service in the Indian Telecommunication Network on 23.02.2024. With reference to section 7 (8) of RTI Act 2005, recommendations of TRAI are still under process and yet to be finalized. Hence, it is difficult to provide desired information at this stage.”

DoT’s response raises questions about what is happening on the caller ID implementation front. One of the key questions being: How are the recommendations not finalised despite the fact that TRAI put them in the public domain? Further, it raises questions about reports that Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea (Vi) had conducted trials for the caller ID system in Haryana and Mumbai in June .

While the intent behind CNAP is to prevent spam, in practice, it can negatively impact user privacy . For instance, if a user accidentally misdials a number, the caller ID would end up telling the receiver the user’s full name. If the receiver is malicious, they can use this to find out more details about said user.

This can be a serious problem in situations where the caller would rather not be identified, such as when the caller is a person in distress. The caller ID system could make them feel like they are no longer secure enough to anonymously seek help. CNAP could also end up allowing call-back scammers, where the caller disconnects after one ring, to collect information about the users. The spammer can then use this information to impersonate the person or make tailored scams.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event