(PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE J.B.PARDIWALA) 1. By this Writ Application, under Article 226 of
the Constitution of India, the writ applicant has
prayed for the following reliefs: 2. The facts, giving rise to this Writ Application,
may be summarized as under: In other words, search and seizure was undertaken by
the Authorities some time in the months of March and
April, 2019. It also appears that the proceedings
under Section 73 of the GGST Act, 2017, have been
initiated against the writ applicant. 2.4. It further appears that later an order of
provisional attachment of the immovable property
situated at B-705, Mondeal Heights, near Wide Angle,
S.G.Highway, Ahmedabad, came to be passed by the Page 3 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER Assistant Commissioner of State Tax in exercise of
powers, under Section 83 of the Act, 2017. 2.5. Being dissatisfied with the order of provisional
attachment, the writ applicant is here before this
Court, with the present Writ Application. 3. On 20th September, 2019, a Co-ordinate Bench of
this Court, passed the following order: 4. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for
the parties and having gone through the materials on Page 5 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER record, the only question that falls for our
consideration, is whether the order of provisional
attachment passed by the Assistant Commissioner in
exercise of powers under Section 83 of the GGST Act,
2017, is sustainable in law. 5. The issue is no longer res integra, in view of
the decision of this Court rendered on 28th August,
2019, in the case of Valerius Industries Versus
Union of India [Special Civil Application No.13132 of
2019]. A Co-ordinate Bench of this Court, to which
one of us, Mr.J.B.Pardiwala, J., is a party had the
occasion to consider two questions, (i) the power of
Commissioner of State Tax to delegate his powers
under Section 83 of the Act to the Assistant
Commissioner, and (ii) assuming for the moment that
it is permissible for the Commissioner to delegate
his powers to the Assistant Commissioner, what is
expected of the Assistant Commissioner while
exercising his delegated powers under Section 83 of
the Act, for the purpose of provisional attachment.
We may quote the relevant observations, made in the
judgment referred to above as under: 16. The plain reading of Section 83 of
the Act referred to above makes it
clear that the powers have been
conferred by the legislature upon the
Commissioner. The subjective
satisfaction that for the purpose of
protecting the interest of the
government revenue, it is necessary
that the goods should be provisionally
attached should be that of the
Commissioner. The Commissioner has
been conferred with the power to pass
an order in writing for the purpose of
attaching provisionally any property
including the bank account belonging
to the taxable person. Indisputably,
in the case on hand, the order of
provisional attachment of the bank
account as well as the goods has not
been passed by the Commissioner, the
same has been passed by the State Tax
Officer I.e. the respondent No.3
herein. 17. The order of provisional
attachment of property under Section 83 in form NO.GST DRC22 in accordance with Rule 159(1) of the Rules reads as
follows: 18. The order of provisional
 attachment of the goods valued at
 Rs.1,60,00,000/reads as under: 19. We shall now look into the order
passed by the Commissioner of State
Tax delegating his power of
provisional attachment under Section
83 of the Act to : (1) Deputy
Commissioner (2) Assistant
Commissioner and (3) State Tax
Officer. The order reads as under: SCHEDULE-A

SI Section Functions assigned Designation of proper
 officer
No.

'(1) '(2) '(3) '(4)

1 83 Provisional attachment Deputy Commissioner,
 to protect revenue in
 Assistant
 certain cases
 Commissioner,
 State Tax Officer

 Sd/- (P D Vaghela)
 Commissioner of State Tax
 Gujarat State, Ahmedabad." 20. The first and the foremost
 question that needs to be answered is
 whether the Commissioner could have
 delegated his power by virtue of the
 aforesaid order. Ms. Mehta, the
 learned A.G.P. Seeks to rely upon Section 5 of the Act, 2017. Section 5
 of the State GST Act reads as under: 21. According to Ms. Mehta, by virtue
of Section 5(3) of the Act, the
Commissioner is empowered to delegate
his power to any other officer who is
subordinate to him. 22. Ms. Mehta, thereafter, invited the
attention of this Court to two
definitions of "Commissioner" and
"Commissioner in the Board" as defined
under Sections 2(24) and 2(25) respectively of the Gujarat Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 . The two
definitions read as under: 23. Ms. Mehta, thereafter, invited the
attention of this Court to Section 167 Page 12 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER of the Gujarat Goods and Services Tax
Act, 2017 (fort short, 'the GGST Act,
2017), which is with regard to the
delegation of powers. Section 167 of
the GGST Act, 2017 reads as under: 24. In the last, Ms. Mehta invited the
attention of this Court to Section 168 of the GGST 2017. Section 168 of the
GGST, 2017 reads as under: 25. Ms. Mehta submitted that by virtue
of the aforesaid provisions of the
State GST Act, the Commissioner State
Tax could be said to be empowered to
delegate his powers of provisional
attachment under Section 83 of the
State GST Act. 26. At this stage, it is necessary to
look into few provisions of the
Central GST Act, 2017. Section 2(24) of the CGST Act, 2017 defines
"Commissioner" as under: 27 Section 2(25) of the CGST Act
defines "Commissioner in the Board" as
under: 28. Section 83 of the CGST Act is pari
materia to Section 83 of the State GST
Act. Section 167 of the CGST Act with
regard to the delegation of powers
reads as under: 29. Section 168 of the CGST Act, 2017
reads as under: 30. The comparison of the provisions
of the State GST Act and the CGST
would indicate that there is a vast
difference between the two. Section
168(2) of the CGST Act clarifies that
the Commissioner specified in
subsection(3) of Section 5 shall mean
a Commissioner or Joint Secretary
posted in the Board and such
Commissioner or Joint Secretary shall
exercise the powers specified in the
said section with the approval of the
Board. Thus, the distinguishing
feature is that so far as the CGST Act is concerned, the power of delegation
under Section 5(3) of the Act therein
is with the Commissioner in the Board
and not the Commissioner of the
Central Tax. Whereas, so far as
Section 5(3) of the State GST Act is
concerned, the Commissioner would be
the Commissioner of the State Tax. If
the provisions of the CGST Act would
have been applicable to the facts of
the present case, then there would
have been no difficulty at all in
quashing the order passed by the
Commissioner of the State Tax
delegating his power of Section 83 to
the subordinate officers on the ground
that the same is without jurisdiction.
However, it appears that so far as the
State GST Act is concerned, the
Commissioner, in Section 5(3) of the
Act, would be the Commissioner of the
State Tax and in the same manner, the
Commissioner, in Sections 167 and 168 of the Act respectively, shall also be
the Commissioner of the State Tax. 31. Delegation is the act of making or Page 15 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER commissioning a delegate. It generally
means parting of powers by the person
who grants the delegation and
conferring of an authority to do
things which otherwise that person
would have to do himself. Delegation
is defined in Black's Law Dictionary
as "the act of entrusting another with
authority by the empowering another to
act as an agent or representative". In
P. Ramanatha Aiyar's, The Law Lexicon,
"delegation is the act of making or
commissioning a delegate. Delegation
generally means parting of powers by
the person who grants the delegation,
but it also means conferring of an
authority to do things which otherwise
that person would have to do himself".
Justice Mathew in Gwalior Rayon Silk
Manufacturing (Wvg.) Co. Ltd. v. The
Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax
and Others [1974 (4) SCC 98], has
succinctly discussed the concept of
delegation. Paragraph 37 reads as follows: 32. As a general rule, whatever a Page 16 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER person has power to do himself, he may
do by means of an agent. This broad
rule is limited by the operation of
the principle that a delegated
authority cannot be redelegated,
delegatus non potest delegare. The
naming of a delegate to do an act
involving a discretion indicates that
the delegate was selected because of
his peculiar skill and the confidence
reposed in him and there is a
presumption that he is required to do
the act himself and cannot redelegate
his authority. As a general rule, "if
the statute directs that certain acts
shall be done in a specified manner or
by certain persons, their performance
in any other manner than that
specified or by any other person than
one of those named is impliedly
prohibited. Normally, a discretion
entrusted by the Parliament to an
administrative organ must be exercised
by that organ itself. At the same
time, it is settled position of law
that the maxim "delegatus nonpotest
delegare" must not be pushed too far.
The maxim does not embody a rule of
law. It indicates a rule of
construction of a statute or other
instrument conferring an authority.
Prima facie, a discretion conferred by
a statute on any authority is intended
to be exercised by that authority and
by no other. However, the intention
may be negatived by any contrary
indications in the language, scope or
object of the statute. The
construction that would best achieve
the purpose and object of the statute
should be adopted." 33. At this stage, in the aforesaid
context, we may deal with the
submission canvassed by Ms. Mehta that
in the case on hand, the order of
provisional attachment under Section Page 17 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER 83 of the Act came to be passed
because of the pendency of proceedings
under Section 67 of the Act. The
submission of Ms. Mehta is that Section 67 of the Act confers power of
inspection, search and seizure. Where
the proper officer not below the rank
of Joint Commissioner has reasons to
believe that a taxable person has
suppressed any transaction relating to
supply of goods or services or both or
the stock of goods in hand, or has
indulged in contravention of any of
the provisions of the Act or the rules
made thereunder to evade tax under the
Act 2017, then such proper officer not
below the rank of Joint Commissioner
may authorize in writing any other
officer of the State Tax to inspect
any places of business of the taxable
person or the persons engaged in the
business of transporting goods or the
owner or the operator of warehouse or
godown or any other place. According
Ms. Mehta, if, ultimately, the entire
exercise of inspection, search and
seizure is undertaken by an authorized
person, then such authorized officer
can always be delegated with the power
to pass an order of provisional
attachment under Section 83 if the
authorized officer who is of the
opinion that it is necessary so to do
for the purpose of protecting the
interest of the government revenue. We
are afraid we are not in a position to
accept this argument. 34. The first and the foremost thing
which needs to be noted is that even
for the purpose of Section 67 , the
satisfaction has to be of the proper
officer not below the rank of the
Joint Commissioner. If the proper
officer not below the rank of the
Joint Commissioner has reasons to
believe that a taxable person has Page 18 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER indulged in contravention of any of
the provisions of the Act, 2017 or the
rules, then in such circumstances, he
may authorize in writing any other
officer to carry out the inspection,
search and seizure. Therefore, when an
authorized officer carries out an
inspection, search and seizure, the
same is merely on the basis of the
satisfaction recorded or arrived at by
the proper officer not below the rank
of the Joint Commissioner. The
authorized officer is merely executing
or implementing the order that may be
passed by the proper officer not below
the rank of the Joint Commissioner for
the purpose of Section 67 of the Act,
2017. 35. In the case on hand, Section 83 makes it abundantly clear that it is
the Commissioner's opinion which is
relevant. The Legislature has thought
fit to confer this power upon the
Commissioner. Whether such power
conferred upon the Commissioner by the
legislature could have been delegated
to the three subordinate officers referred to above by virtue of the
order dated 15th January 2018 passed
in exercise of power under subsection
(3) of Section 5 read with clause 19
of Section 2 of the Act and the rules
framed thereunder. In our opinion, the
answer has to be in the negative.
Although there is no specific
challenge to the order dated 15th
January 2015 passed by the
Commissioner of State Tax delegating
his power under Section 83 to the
subordinate officers, yet, we are of
the view that by virtue of such order,
such impugned order of provisional
attachment cannot be defended. 36. We now propose to examine the Page 19 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER matter from a different angle. Let us
for the time being proceed on the
footing that it was within the powers
of the Commissioner to delegate his
power of provisional attachment under Section 83 of the Act upon the three
subordinate officers by virtue of
subsection(3) of Section 5 read with
clause 91 of Section 2 of the Act,
2017. Section 83 talks about the
opinion which is necessary to be
formed for the purpose of protecting
the interest of the government
revenue. Any opinion of the authority
to be formed is not subject to
objective test. The language leaves no
room for the relevance of an official
examination as to the sufficiency of
the ground on which the authority may
act in forming its opinion. But, at
the same time, there must be material
based on which alone the authority
could form its opinion that it has
become necessary to order provisional
attachment of the goods or the bank
account to protect the interest of the
government revenue. The existence of
relevant material is a precondition to
the formation of opinion. The use of
the word "may" indicates not only the
discretion, but an obligation to
consider that a necessity has arisen
to pass an order of provisional
attachment with a view to protect the
interest of the government revenue.
Therefore, the opinion to be formed by
the Commissioner or take a case by the
delegated authority cannot be on
imaginary ground, wishful thinking,
howsoever laudable that may be. Such a
course is impermissible in law. At the
cost of repetition, the formation of
the opinion, though subjective, must
be based on some credible material
disclosing that is necessary to
provisionally attach the goods or the
bank account for the purpose of Page 20 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER protecting the interest of the
government revenue. The statutory
requirement of reasonable belief is to
safeguard the citizen from vexatious
proceedings. "Belief" is a mental
operation of accepting a fact as true,
so, without any fact, no belief can be
formed. It is equally true that it is
not necessary for the authority under
the Act to state reasons for its
belief. But if it is challenged that
he had no reasons to believe , in that
case , he must disclose the materials
upon which his belief was formed, as
it has been held by the Supreme Court
in Sheonath Singh's case [AIR 1971 SC
2451], that the Court can examine the
materials to find out whether an
honest and reasonable person can base
his reasonable belief upon such
materials although the sufficiency of
the reasons for the belief cannot be
investigated by the Court. In the case
at hand, Ms. Mehta, the learned A.G.P.
Appearing for the respondents very
fairly submitted that not only the
impugned order of provisional
attachment is bereft of any reason,
but there is nothing on the original
file on the basis of which this Court
may be in a position to ascertain the
genuineness of the belief formed by
the authority. The word "necessary"
means indispensable, requisite;
indispensably requisite, useful,
incidental or conducive; essential;
unavoidable; impossible to be
otherwise; not to be avoided;
inevitable. The word "necessary" must
be construed in the connection in
which it is used. The formation of the
opinion by the authority should
reflect intense application of mind
with reference to the material
available on record that it had become
necessary to order provisional
attachment of the goods or the bank Page 21 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER account or other articles which may be
useful or relevant to any proceedings
under the Act. [see: Bhikhubhai
Vithlabhai Patel and others vs. State
of Gujarat AIR 2008 SCC 1771]. 37. In J. Jayalalitha vs. U.O.I. [AIR
1999 SC 1912], the Supreme Court while
construing the expression "as may be
necessary" employed in Section 3 (1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,
1988 which conferred the discretion
upon the State Government to appoint
as many Special Judges as may be
necessary for such area or areas or
for such case or group of cases to try
the offences punishable under the Act,
observed : 38. In Barium Chemicals Ltd. vs.
Company Law Board [AIR 1967 SC 295],
the Supreme Court pointed out, on
consideration of several English and
Indian authorities that the
expressions "is satisfied", "is of the Page 22 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER opinion" and "has reason to believe" If these circumstances were not to exist,
can the government still say that in its
opinion they exist or can the Government say
the same thing where the circumstances
relevant to the clause do not exist? The
legislature no doubt has used the expression
"circumstances suggesting". But that
expression means that the circumstances need
not be such as would conclusively establish Page 23 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER an intent to defraud or a fraudulent or
illegal purpose. The proof of such an intent
or purpose is still to be adduced through an
investigation. But the expression
"circumstances suggesting" cannot support
the construction that even the existence of
circumstances is a matter of subjective
opinion. That expression points out that
there must exist circumstances from which
the Authority forms an opinion that they are
suggestive of the crucial matters set out in
the three subclauses. It is hard to
contemplate that the legislature could have
left to the subjective process both the
formation of opinion and also the existence
of circumstances on which it is to be
founded. It is also not reasonable to say
that the clause permitted the Authority to
say that it has formed the opinion on
circumstances which in its opinion exist and
which in its opinion suggest an intent to
defraud or a fraudulent or unlawful purpose.
It is equally unreasonable to think that the
legislature could have abandoned even the
small safeguard of requiring the opinion to
be founded on existent circumstances which
suggest the things for which an
investigation can be ordered and left the
opinion and even the existence of
circumstances from which it is to be formed
to a subjective process. These analysis
finds support in Gower's Modern Company Law
 nd
(2 Ed.) p. 547 where the learned author,
while dealing with S. 165(b) of the English
Act observes that "the Board of Trade will
always exercise its discretionary power in
the light of specified grounds for an
appointment on their own motion" and that
"they may be trusted not to appoint unless
the circumstances warrant it but they will
test the need on the basis of public and
commercial morality." There must therefore
exist circumstances which in the opinion of
the Authority suggest what has been set out
in subclauses (I), (ii) or (iii). If it is
shown that the circumstances do not exist or
that they are such that it is impossible for
any one to form an opinion therefrom
suggestive of the aforesaid things, the
opinion is challengeable on the ground of
non application of mind or perversity or on
the ground that it was formed on collateral
grounds and was beyond the scope of the
statute. 39. The Supreme Court while expressly
referring to the expressions such as
"reason to believe", "in the opinion" 40. In the Income tax Officer,
Calcutta and Ors. vs. Lakhmani Mewal
Das [AIR 1976 SC 1753], the Supreme
Court construed the expression "reason
to believe" employed in Section 147 of
the Income Tax Act, 1961 and observed: 41. In Bhikhubhai Vithalabhai Patel (supra), the Supreme Court observed in
paras 32 and 33 as under: employed in the proviso to Section 17 (1) (a) (ii) of the Act. The expression "is of
opinion", that substantial modifications in
the draft development plan and regulations,
"are necessary", in our considered opinion,
does not confer any unlimited discretion on
the Government. The discretion, if any,
conferred upon the State Government to make
substantial modifications in the draft
development plan is not unfettered. There is
nothing like absolute or unfettered
discretion and at any rate in the case of
statutory powers. The basic principles in
this regard are clearly expressed and
explained by Prof. Sir William Wade in
Administrative Law (Ninth Edn.) in the
chapter entitled 'abuse of discretion' and
under the general heading the principle of
reasonableness' which read as under : 33. The Court is entitled to examine whether
there has been any material available with
the State Government and the reasons
recorded, if any, in the formation of
opinion and whether they have any rational
connection with or relevant bearing on the
formation of the opinion. The Court is
entitled particularly, in the event, when
the formation of the opinion is challenged
to determine whether the formation of
opinion is arbitrary, capricious or
whimsical. It is always open to the court to
examine the question whether reasons for
formation of opinion have rational
connection or relevant bearing to the
formation of such opinion and are not
extraneous to the purposes of the statute." 42. In the absence of any cogent or
credible material, if the subjective
satisfaction is arrived at by the
authority concerned for the purpose of
passing an order of provisional
attachment under Section 83 of the
Act, then such action amounts to
malice in law. Malice in its legal
sense means such malice as may be
assumed from the doing of a wrongful
act intentionally but also without
just cause or excuse or for want of Page 27 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER reasonable or probably cause. Any use
of discretionary power exercised for
an unauthorized purpose amounts to
malice in law. It is immaterial
whether the authority acted in good
faith or bad faith. In the aforesaid
context, we may refer to and rely upon
a decision of the Supreme Court in the
case of Smt. S.R. Venkatraman vs.
Union of India reported in (1979) ILLJ
25(SC) where it had been held: We may also refer to and rely upon
a decision of the Supreme Court in the
case of ITO Calcutta vs. Lakhmani
Mewal Das reported in [(1976) 103 ITR
437 (SC)] wherein it had been held as
under: 43. There is one another pertinent
feature of this matter. When the
search of the industrial premises of
the writ applicant was undertaken, the
further inquiry in that regard
revealed that there were no goods
involved, but there were only billing
transactions. At the time of the
search, goods worth
Rs.2,48,59,485/were found stored at
the industrial premises of the writ
applicant. The authority came to the
conclusion that the tax liability
which may be determined in future
under Section 74 of the Act may be to
the tune of Rs.1,60,00,000/( Rupees
One Crore Sixty Lakh only), and in
such circumstances, thought fit to
provisionally attach the goods worth
only Rs.1,60,00,000/from the total
goods worth Rs.2,48,59,485/( Rupees
Two Crore Forty Eight Lakh Fifty Nine
Thousand Four Hundred Eighty Five
only). 44. We would like to add something
more to what we have stated above. It
would be a big mistake on the part of
the respondents to understand that the
reasons to believe necessary for the
purpose of carrying out inspection, Page 29 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER search and seizure under Section 67 of
the Act, 2017 would be sufficient
enough for the purpose of formation of
the opinion that it is necessary to
provisionally attach the goods or
other articles for the purpose of
protecting the interest of the
government revenue. In our opinion, Section 83 of the Act stands
altogether on a different footing. The
considerations also are quite
different for the purpose of
exercising the power of provisional
attachment under Section 83 of the
Act. Just because, some proceedings
are initiated under Section 67 by
itself would not be sufficient to
arrive at the satisfaction that it is
necessary to provisionally attach the
property for the purpose of protecting
the interest of the government
revenue. The power has been
specifically conferred upon the
Commissioner to form such an opinion.
The legislature was quite alive to the
fact that an order of provisional
attachment cannot be as a matter of
course. It is one of the drastic
measures which the authority may be
compelled to take if the situation
demands for the purpose of protecting
the interest of the government
revenue. Under Section 67 of the Act,
2017, the legislature has thought fit
to use the words "proper officer not
below the rank of Joint Commissioner".
In Section 83 , even that discretion is
taken away and it is only the
Commissioner who has been empowered to
act under Section 83 of the Act. In
our opinion, therefore, the subjective
satisfaction, which is required for
the purpose of Section 83 of the Act,
is not dependent on Section 67 of the
Act or to put it in other words, just
because, a search has been undertaken
resulting in seizure of goods by Page 30 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER itself may not be sufficient to arrive
at the subjective satisfaction that it
is necessary to pass an order of
provisional attachment to protect
government revenue. 45. In the case on hand, the challenge
is also to the order in form GST DRC -
07 (Rule 142(5) of the Rules. This
order dated 17th June 2019 [Annexure : misstatement or suppression of facts
to evade tax, for periods other than
those covered under subsection (1)
 are the same as are mentioned in
the earlier notice. (5) The person chargeable with tax
may, before service of notice under
subsection (1), pay the amount of tax
along with interest payable under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to
fifteen per cent. Of such tax on the
basis of his own ascertainment of such
tax or the tax as ascertained by the
proper officer and inform the proper
officer in writing of such payment. (6) The proper officer, on receipt of
such information, shall not serve any
notice under sub-section (1), in
respect of the tax so paid or any
penalty payable under the provisions
of this Act or the rules made
thereunder. (7) Where the proper officer is of the
opinion that the amount paid under
sub-section (5) falls short of the
amount actually payable, he shall
proceed to issue the notice as
provided for in sub-section (1) in
respect of such amount which falls
short of the amount actually payable. (8) Where any person chargeable with
tax under subsection (1) pays the said
tax along with interest payable under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to
twenty five per cent. Of such tax
within thirty days of issue of the
notice, all proceedings in respect of
the said notice shall be deemed to be
concluded. (9) The proper officer shall, after
considering the representation, if
any, made by the person chargeable
with tax, determine the amount of tax,
interest and penalty due from such
person and issue an order. (10) The proper officer shall issue
the order under subsection (9) within
a period of five years from the due
date for furnishing of annual return
for the financial year to which the
tax not paid or short paid or input
tax credit wrongly availed or utilised
relates to or within five years from
the date of erroneous refund. (11) Where any person served with an
order issued under subsection (9) pays
the tax along with interest payable
thereon under section 50 and a penalty
equivalent to fifty per cent. Of such
tax within thirty days of
communication of the order, all
proceedings in respect of the said Page 33 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER notice shall be deemed to be
concluded. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of section
73 and this section,

(I) the expression "all proceedings in
respect of the said notice" shall not
include proceedings under section 132 ; (ii) where the notice under the same
proceedings is issued to the main person
liable to pay tax and some other persons,
and such proceedings against the main person
have been concluded under section 73 or section 74 , the proceedings against all the
persons liable to pay penalty under sections
122 , 125 , 129 and 130 are deemed to be
concluded. Explanation 2.--For the purposes of this
Act, the expression "suppression" shall mean
non-declaration of facts or information
which a taxable person is required to
declare in the return, statement, report or
any other document furnished under this Act
or the rules made thereunder, or failure to
furnish any information on being asked for,
in writing, by the proper officer." 46. Thus, Section 74 provides for
determination of tax not paid or short
paid or erroneously refunded or input
tax credit wrongly availed or utilized
by reason of fraud or any wilful
misstatement or suppression of fact.
The case of the department is very
specific. 47. Rule 142(5) of the Rules 2017
reads as under: 48. It appears from the materials on
record that without issue of any show
cause notice, the tax liability came
to be determined under Section 74 of
the Act. Section 74 makes it
abundantly clear that the defaulter
should be called upon to show cause as
to why he should not be paid the
amount specified in the notice along
with the interest payable thereon. There could not have been any
assessment under Section 74 of the Act
without giving any opportunity of
hearing to the writ applicant. In such
circumstances, the order is not
tenable in law and deserves to be
quashed and set aside. We also fail to
understand as to on what basis the
input tax credit could have been
blocked by way of computer entry. At
the most, the same could have been
ordered to be provisionally attached,
but how could the same have been
blocked. Such action is also not
sustainable in law. 49. Section 83 of the Act, 2017 is in
pari materia with the provisions of Section 281B of the Income Tax Act,
1961. Section 281B of the Act, 1961
also provides for a provisional
attachment of the property of an
assessee pending the adjudication an
assessment / reassessment proceedings
where the income tax department
believes that such attachment is
necessary to protect the interest of
the revenue. The provisions of Section
281B of the Act, 1961 is extracted
below for the sake of completion and
to demonstrate that the provisions of Section 83 have been framed along
identical lines as Section 281B: However, the Principal Chief Commissioner or
Chief Commissioner, Principal Commissioner
or Commissioner, Principal Director General
or Director General or Principal Director or
Director may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing. Extend the aforesaid period by such
further period or periods as he thinks fit.
So, however, that the total period of
extension shall not in any case exceed two
years or sixty days after the date of order
of assessment or reassessment. Whichever is
later. (3) Where the assessee furnishes a guarantee
from a scheduled bank for an amount not less
than the fair market value of the property
provisionally attached under head (1) the
Assessing Officer shall, by an order in
writing, revoke such attachment. However where the Assessing Officer is
satisfied that a guarantee from a scheduled
bank for an amount lower than the fair
market value of the property is sufficient
to protect the interests of the revenue, he
may accept such guarantee and revoke the
attachment. (4) The Assessing Officer may, for the
purposes of determining the value of the
property provisionally attached under head
(1), make a reference to the Valuation
Officer referred to in the provision of the
lncome Tax Act, 1961 who shall estimate the
fair market value of the property in the
manner provided under that provision and
submit a report of the estimate to the
Assessing Officer within a period of thirty
days from the date of receipt of such
reference. (5) An order revoking the provisional
attachment under head (3) shall be made (a) within forty-five days from the date of
receipt of the guarantee, where a reference
to the Valuation Officer has been made under
head (4); or (b) within fifteen days from
the date of receipt of guarantee in any
other cases. (6) Where a notice of demand specifying a
sum payable is served upon the assessee and
the assessee fails to pay that sum within
the time specified In the notice of demand,
the Assessing Officer may invoke the
guarantee furnished under head (3) wholly or
in part, to recover the amount. (7) The Assessmg Officer shall. In the
interests of the revenue. Invoke the bank
guarantee, if the assessee falls to renew
the guarantee referred to in head (3), or
falls to furnish a new guarantee from &
scheduled bank for an equal amount. Fifteen
days before the expiry of the guarantee
referred to in head (3). (8) The amount realised by invoking the
guarantee referred to ln head (3) shall be
adjusted against the existing demand which
is payable by the assessee and the balance
amount, if any, shall be deposited in the
Personal Deposit Account of the Principal
Commissioner or Commissioner in the branch
of the Reserve Bank of India or the State
Bank of India or subsidiaries or any bank
as may be appointed by the Reserve Bank of
India as its agent under the provisions of Page 37 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER subsection
(1) of section 45 of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934 at the place where the
office of the Principal Commissioner or
Commissioner is situate. (9) Where the Assessing Officer is satisfied
that the guarantee referred to in head (3)
is not required anymore to protect the
interests of the revenue, he shall release
that guarantee forthwith. For the purposes of this provision13. The
expression "scheduled bank" shall mean a
bank included in the Second Schedule to the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 ." 50. In the aforesaid context, we may
quote: 51. Thus, although the provisions of Section 281B of the Income Tax Act is
pari materia to Section 83 of the
State GST Act, yet one pertinent
feature of Section 281B of the Income
Tax Act is that it gives guidelines
for making the provisional attachment.
Such guidelines are missing so far as
Section 83 of the State GST Act is
concerned. 52. Our final conclusions may be Page 40 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER summarized as under: [1] The order of provisional
attachment before the assessment order
is made, may be justified if the
assessing authority or any other
authority empowered in law is of the
opinion that it is necessary to
protect the interest of revenue.
However, the subjective satisfaction
should be based on some credible
materials or information and also
should be supported by supervening
factor. It is not any and every
material, howsoever vague and
indefinite or distant remote or
farfetching, which would warrant the
formation of the belief. [2] The power conferred upon the
authority under Section 83 of the Act
for provisional attachment could be
termed as a very drastic and far-
reaching power. Such power should be
used sparingly and only on substantive
weighty grounds and reasons. [3] The power of provisional
attachment under Section 83 of the Act
should be exercised by the authority
only if there is a reasonable
apprehension that the assessee may
default the ultimate collection of the
demand that is likely to be raised on
completion of the assessment. It
should, therefore, be exercised with
extreme care and caution. [4] The power under Section 83 of the
Act for provisional attachment should
be exercised only if there is
sufficient material on record to
justify the satisfaction that the
assessee is about to dispose of wholly Page 41 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER or any part of his / her property with
 a view to thwarting the ultimate
 collection of demand and in order to
 achieve the said objective, the
 attachment should be of the properties
 and to that extent, it is required to
 achieve this objective. [5] The power under Section 83 of the
 Act should neither be used as a tool
 to harass the assessee nor should it
 be used in a manner which may have an
 irreversible detrimental effect on the
 business of the assessee. [6] The attachment of bank account and
 trading assets should be resorted to
 only as a last resort or measure. The
 provisional attachment under Section
 83 of the Act should not be equated
 with the attachment in the course of
 the recovery proceedings. [7] The authority before exercising
 power under Section 83 of the Act for
 provisional attachment should take
 into consideration two things: (I)
 whether it is a revenue neutral
 situation (ii) the statement of
 "output liability or input credit".
 Having regard to the amount paid by
 reversing the input tax credit if the
 interest of the revenue is
 sufficiently secured, then the
 authority may not be justified in
 invoking its power under Section 83 of
 the Act for the purpose of provisional
 attachment." 6. The dictum of law, as laid in the decision of
this Court in the case of Valerius Industries
(Supra), can straight way be made applicable to the Page 42 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER case on hand. In the case on hand, we looked into the
order passed by the Assistant Commissioner of State
Tax under Section 83 of the Act. 7. By placing reliance on the averments made in the
affidavit-in-reply duly affirmed by the Assistant
Commissioner, Mr.Joshi, the learned Assistant
Government Pleader appearing for the respondent-
Authorities, invited the attention of this Court to
paragraph Nos.17, 18, 19 and 20 of the affidavit-in-
reply. We quote the paragraph Nos.17 to 20 as under: 8. By relying upon the averments made in the
aforesaid paragraphs, an attempt is made on the part
of the learned Assistant Government Pleader appearing
for the respondent-Authorities to submit that there
was sufficient material with the Assistant
Commissioner to arrive at the subjective satisfaction
that it is necessary to pass an order of provisional
attachment to protect the interest of the Revenue. 9. We are not in a position to accept such
submission. What has been stated in paragraph Nos.17
to 20 of the affidavit-in-reply, has something to do
with the merits of the case, for which, notice under
Section 73 of the GGST Act, 2017, has been issued
upon the writ applicant and the proceedings are
pending before the concerned authority. What is
lacking in the present case is the credible material,
in its true sense, for the purpose of arriving at the
subjective satisfaction that the order of provisional
attachment is necessary for the purpose of protecting
the interest of the Revenue. In the case of Valerius
Industries (Supra), we have taken the view that the
Commissioner ought not to have delegated his powers
of provisional attachment under Section 83 of the Act
to the Assistant Commissioner. Therefore, in the case
on hand, the order of provisional attachment as well
as the order of prohibition are not sustainable on
two counts, i.e. (i) the order has been passed by the
Assistant Commissioner, and (ii) the order has been
passed without any credible materials, available for
the purpose of passing such order of provisional Page 45 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020 C/SCA/14129/2019 ORDER attachment. 10. In the result, this Writ Application succeeds
and is hereby allowed. The order of provisional
attachment passed by the Assistant Commissioner, so
far as the immovable property is concerned, is hereby
quashed and set aside. In the same manner, the order
of provisional attachment of the bank accounts is
also hereby quashed and set aside. Consequently, the
order of prohibition dated 30th July, 2019, which is
annexed as Annexure-"C" to this petition passed under
Rule 139(4) of the Rules, 2017, is also quashed and
set aside. 11. However, we clarify that as the proceedings
under Section 73 of the said Act are pending as on
date, the writ applicant shall not destroy or secrete
any books of account or any other documents relating
to the same till the conclusion of the inquiry
initiated under the provisions of the Act. In
future, if the Authority is able to gather any
credible material, on the basis of which it may
arrive at the conclusion that it is necessary to
order provisional attachment with a view to protect
the interest of the Revenue, it shall be open for the
Authority to do so, in accordance with law. (J. B. PARDIWALA, J)

 (BHARGAV D. KARIA, J)
PALAK Page 46 of 46 Downloaded on : Sun Feb 16 13:21:39 IST 2020