. On careful reading of the said clause ( c) Section 12(1) it will appear

that both the parties in case of adult (here it is so) are obliged to divulge

mutually and unequivocally the material fact or circumstances to each

other before or at least at the time of marriage so much so element of

deception is ruled out. The words material fact or circumstances have not

been defined or specified. We think it cannot be inflexibly or specifically

laid down. It varies from one family to another, according to culture, ethos

and social system in ages and situation. For example in a conservative

family having attachment with puritan society in a marriage inevitable and

unerring expectation is that both the bride and groom must not have any

record of prior marriage in any sense nor will have any marriage in any

sense, not even any premarital affairs with other boy or girl (as the case

may be). They cannot think of even marrying outside their caste and

community, conversely, a family with liberal and cosmopolitan approach,

thought, particularly in urban area will not mind in case of marriage even

having knowledge of background of prior marriage or premarital affair

with other counter sex outside their caste and community. In case of 28 former, concealment of caste, community or background of prior marriage

or premarital affairs before or at the time of marriage is obviously

extremely material and it amounts to fraud in obtaining consent. In this case evidence is more than adequate, almost on admission

that both the sides believe and practise in conservative ideas as far as

marriage match is concerned and they believe marriage is sacramental act

and mutual reposing of matrimonial trust and confidence. We think in this

circumstance background of prior marriage albiet annulled, is material

fact, disclosure of such fact before or at the time of marriage was

absolutely essential. In other words concealment of this fact is an act of

deception. In order to develop matrimonial trust, confidence at the time of

marriage or subsequently it is essential minds of the groom and bride

would be open and waiting to accept each other absolutely, and closely so

much so there would be no room in their minds for any one else. It is the case of the respondent/plaintiff that there has not been any

disclosure of fact at the time of negotiation before or at the time of 29 solemnization of the marriage, about the earlier marriage. The factum of

occurrence of previous marriage is within the special knowledge of

Saswati, hence it was her obligation to disclose it since she was adult, or

for that matter her parents. They have failed to discharge the burden under Section 106 of Evidence Act. On the contrary, it has been noticed by the

learned Trial Judge that the parents of the appellant or the appellant herself

in a bid to conceal above material fact described meaningfully her status

as unmarried in the application for registration under Hindu Marriage Act .

Therefore, such representation before the Marriage Officer as well as Avik

amounts to misrepresentation to put it mildly incorrect information. Under

such circumstances Avik believed such representation to be true and

correct, when it was made before a public servant there is no reason to

disbelieve. Next contention is whether this knowledge of Avik is very vital

as far as maintainability of this action is concerned. Since sub-section (2)

of Section 12 of the said Act had specifically provided with negative

words that presentation of petition for annulment of Hindu Marriage is

forbidden after expiry of one year after fraud had been discovered. The

marriage between Saswati and Avik took place on 25th January 2000, on 30 12th February 2001 they together went to Delhi. Within three days after

marriage, it is urged, that Saswati is said to have divulged about the

previous marriage. It is her oral evidence and Mr. Roychowdhury

forcefully submits this evidence as far as point of limitation is concerned

is relevant. He submits that her evidence should have been accepted by the

learned Trial Judge and if it is accepted to be true then action is barred by

limitation. Mr. Saktinath Mukherjee has correctly pointed out that when the

learned Trial Judge having watched demeanour has disbelieved testimony

of Saswati, the appeal Court going by the record should not believe her.

Even going by the records we unhesitatingly come to the same conclusion

as the learned Trial judge did. It is very risky to believe the witness who is

prone to take shifting stand according to her chosen situation and

circumstances. It appears from the records that she voluntarily with the

help of friends and acquaintance married lawfully Sudip who came down 31 from America for the marriage. She thereafter without informing her

parents and concealing the fact of marriage went to the house of Sudip's

parents and stayed there for the period as stated above. She wrote letter to

Sudip to America as a newly married wife does to her husband. She made

complaint against her parents so that her marriage life with Sudip is not

disturbed by them. After all this she filed the application for annulment of

marriage against Sudip making incorrect allegations mentioning there has

been forceful marriage before the Marriage Officer. In this proceeding she

has not hesitated to tell that she loved Sudip. She even made incorrect

representation by necessary implication before the Hindu Marriage Officer

that she is unmarried. Under such circumstances the person who is always

taking contradictory and shifting stand before various authorities and does

not hesitate to make incorrect statement before the responsible officers

including the judicial one, cannot be trusted, to write any judgment in any

proceeding wherein she is a party. We therefore, hold that the learned

Trial Judge has rightly disbelieved her. If her testimony goes then nothing

remains to prove disclosure of pre-marital status before marriage being

solemnized. We fail to understand if this material information was 32 divulged before marriage during negotiation as claimed by the appellant

and her father, then why it was at all necessary to repeat the same three

days after marriage. On the contrary it suggests unmistakably that there

was no disclosure before or at the time of marriage. It is an afterthought

endeavour to misdirect the Courts. Mr. Mukherjee has rightly stated that for the first time during train

journey from Delhi to Kolkata on or about 13th October 2001 Avik came

to know about the earlier Marriage of Swasati as she disclosed her

relationship with Sudip. We think that had there been an honest intention to disclose this

material fact of earlier marriage of Swasati then her parents ought to have

mentioned this fact in the letters and correspondences exchanged between

two groups on several occasions. It appears from the records that both the

parties were in habit of making correspondences even on small issues. So

it is not understood as to why Saswati's father did not divulge very

important aspect enclosing the copy of the certificate of registration of 33 earlier marriage and copy of the decree of annulment thereof. Responsible

and educated person is expected in normal course of event to divulge the

same. We are, therefore, inclined to accept as had been found by the

learned Trial Judge correctly that Avik discovered the factum of earlier

marriage as mentioned hereinabove. Prior thereto he had no knowledge

though Mr. Roychowdhury wants us in vain to accept the version of

testimony of the father of Saswati as we have already held that the

responsibility of disclosure of vital fact was rested with Saswati not with

her father. On the question of condonation of matrimonial offence we are

of the view after discovery of the factum of earlier marriage it appears

from evidence that Avik did not stay with Saswati and she has been left

behind by Avik at her father's place not to speak of cohabiting with her.

After reaching Kolkata and after having come to know the relationship

with Sudip he approached the father of Saswati to inquire about Sudip.

When he did not get any information he left his father-in-laws house and

stayed in Hotel Hindusthan. Thus we are left no alternative but to hold that 34 the point of limitation will start running from 27th March 2002 when he

came to know with all particulars from Pankaj Saraf. It is submitted by

Mr. Roychowdhury because of non-examination of Pankaj the evidence of

Avik is of no value. We are unable to accept this contention as there is no

reason to disbelieve Avik as he himself came to know this fact of earlier

marriage and he can say alone. Of course the testimony of Pankaj could

have corroborative value but when the evidence of one witness is good

enough no corroboration is required. Much has been told about the said

letter of Avik dated 21st October 2000 urging particularly that in this letter

Avik knew everything about past life of Saswati. Mr. Mukherjee has

rightly stated that the learned Trial Judge has correctly found in the text of

the said letter, that nothing is mentioned that he had been told about the

existence of earlier marriage with Sudip followed by annulment of the

marriage. In the cross-examination of Avik it has not even been suggested

referring to this letter, that he knew about the factum of earlier marriage so

as to non-suit this matrimonial proceeding on account of the period of

limitation as mentioned in the said Sub-section (2) of Section 12 of the

said Act. We have carefully gone though the text of the said letter dated 35 21st October 2000 wherefrom it appears that he had written to mother-in-

law as a sensible son in law that they are adjusting together after marriage

and she had told about her premarital and past relationship and affairs with

another boy. Such relationship would not affect their marital relationship

adversely. Pre-marital affairs with a boy without any thing more, is one

thing and pre-marital affairs culminates in lawful and valid marriage is

another thing. Avik is a bachelor admittedly and Saswati was not a

spinster in legal sense as she had been married earlier, at least she cannot

be termed to be unmarried. The earlier marriage of Saswati was preceded

by prolonged courtship from adolescence and that too beyond the

knowledge of the parents of Saswati. It is quite natural that a married girl

though there has been an annulment of marriage subsequently under

pressure of her parent, cannot easily and quickly shed off her affinity,

fondness and desire for union with the first man in her life and it is very

difficult if not impossible to forget as there is no history of torture or

misbehaviour by the first self chosen husband, therefore it is quite natural

justified that suspicion of passion of Saswati for Sudip could always be in

the mind of Avik. Hence the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of 36 Dastane v. Dasterne reported in (1975) 2 SCC 326 is not at all applicable

because the said matrimonial suit was filed for judicial separation on the

ground of cruelty and in this context the exposition of law with regard to

condonation of matrimonial offence was made. Here on fact there was no

scope for condonation of matrimonial offence as immediately after

discovery of the concealment Avik never cohabited with Saswati. The division Bench Judgment of this Court in the case of Shri

Pranab Kumar Biswas v. Srimati Mrinmayee Dassi and Anr. reported in

1976 (2) CHN 119 is an inapposite citation by reason of the fact that in

that case suit was filed after three years from the date of discovery of

pregnancy of the bride by a person other than lawfully married husband,

on that ground matrimonial action was dismissed. Mr. Roychowdhury has said there has been an effort for conciliation

and settlement during pendency of the Transfer Petition before Supreme

Court. In our view any effort made during pendency of matter does not

operate as abandonment or relinquishment of the original plaint and the 37 same is always without prejudice to the right and contention of the parties

unless such effort is translated into action by making suitable application

before the Court. We therefore, did not find any merit in the appeal and

any reason to interfere with the judgment of the learned Trial Judge which

in our view is well reasoned and considered on all points. Hence we

dismiss the appeal, however without any order as to costs. (K. J. Sengupta, J.)

 I agree. (Kalidas Mukherjee, J.)