1. Accused Asif Khan is facing trial having been
charged for the offence u/s 498-A / 304B IPC. The succinct facts
leading to the initiation of criminal proceedings against the
accused may be stated as under:- 02.06.2020. It was also revealed that victim had committed
suicide by hanging herself to the ceiling fan using a chunni. Her
mother-in-law Zohra Bano and brother-in-law ( devar) Sohail
brought her down from the ceiling. As the death of Nazmin @
Muskan occurred within 7 years of her marriage, matter was
telephonically informed to concerned Executive Magistrate who
directed IO to inform the family of deceased about her death and
to call the Crime Team at the spot. Crime team was called at the spot and necessary
proceedings were carried out. On 07.11.2020, father of deceased
Kallu Khan alongwith his family reached GTB Hospital
Mortuary where his statement was recorded by Executive
Magistrate. Kallu Khan mentioned in his statement about the
factum of getting his daughter/victim Nazmin @ Muskan married
to Asif Khan on 02.06.2020. He further stated that everything
was fine for three months of marriage and after that her daughter
started facing harassment and physical and mental assault at her
matrimonial house on the pretext dowry demand of Rs.1.50
Lakhs from her husband/accused Asif Khan and her mother-in-
law Zohra Bano. On the basis of said statement, FIR under Section 498A / 304B / 34 IPC was registered. IO recorded statement of complainant Kallu Khan
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. wherein he specifically stated that
mother of accused Asif Khan namely Zohra Bano did not
demand any dowry from them at any point of time. Statement of
State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar Page 2 of 19 ARVIND Digitally signed by ARVIND BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:25:19 +0530
 other witnesses was also recorded. After completing necessary
formalities and investigation particularly on the basis of
statements of Kallu Khan, chargesheet was prepared wherein
accused Asif Khan was kept in column no. 11 and her mother
Zohra Bano was kept under column no. 12. 2. Pursuant to completion of investigation, final police
report u/s 173 Cr.P.C. was filed by IO before the Court of
concerned Ld. Magistrate on 04.02.2021 u/s 498A / 304B / 34 IPC.
The Court took cognizance of the offence, on the basis of facts
alleged in the challan and proceeded against accused Asif Khan
only. The case file was committed to the Court of Sessions vide
order dated 09.03.2022 after completion of necessary legal
formalities u/s 207 Cr.P.C. Upon receipt of chargesheet pursuant
to order of Ld. District & Sessions Judge, Shahdara on
09.03.2022, matter was fixed for hearing on point of charge.
After hearing the arguments on point of charge, vide order dated
26.05.2022, Charge u/s 498A / 304B IPC was ordered to be
framed against accused Asif Khan. Charge for the aforesaid
offences was framed and explained to the accused in vernacular
language to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 3. In support of its case, prosecution produced and
examined six witnesses. 3.1 PW-1 Kallu Khan depose that on 02.06.2020,
marriage of his daughter Nazmin (deceased) was solemnized
with accused Asif Khan as per Muslim rites and customs.
Accused Asif Khan and his mother never demanded any money
from his daughter. In the month of September, he brought his State vs. Asif Khan Digitally signed
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar ARVIND by ARVIND
 BANSAL Page 3 of 19 BANSAL 16:25:35
 Date: 2024.09.19
 +0530
 daughter to his home from her matrimonial house as she had
fallen ill and was pregnant at that time. On 06.10.2020, he called
accused Asif Khan at his house who took her daughter Nazmin
@ Muskan to the matrimonial house. On 06.11.2020 at about 3-4 PM, accused made a call
to him and informed that his daughter Nazmin has expired and
asked him to come to his house. Thereafter, he alongwith his
wife, his mother, his brother namely Chahat and some neighbors
reached at matrimonial house of his daughter. He saw that his
daughter was lying on the bed in dead condition. Thereafter, he
made a call to 100 number. After sometime, IO reached at the
spot. Police conducted the required proceedings. Dead body of
his daughter Nazmin was sent to hospital. He identified dead
body vide identification statement Ex.PW-1/A. After
postmortem, dead body was handed over to them. Next day i.e.
on 07.11.2020, SDM recorded his statement as Ex.PW-1/C. In
the evening, he alongwith IO and other police officers reached at
house of accused Asif Khan where accused was found and
identified by him. PW-1 during his deposition proved the arrest memo
and personal search memo of accused Asif Khan as Ex.PW-1/D
and Ex.PW-1/E. Witness proved the site plan prepared by IO at
his instance as Ex.PW-1/F. He also proved the copy of
Nikahnama handed over to IO as Ex.PW-1/G. Witness correctly
identified accused Asif Khan. Ld. Addl. PP for the State cross-examined PW-1 and
confronted him to what he had stated in his statement to
Executive Magistrate as well as statement recorded under Section
161 Cr.P.C., however, PW-1 denied each and every suggestion State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL Page 4 of 19 BANSAL 16:25:43 +0530 Date: 2024.09.19
 put forth to him regarding the demand of dowry of Rs.1.50 lakhs,
mental and physical harassment caused to the deceased at the
hands of accused and his mother and also the fact of being told
by her daughter about the harassment on the pretext of alleged
dowry demand, telephonically. Witness was cross-examined by Ld. Defence
Counsel. 3.2 PW-2 Praveen (mother of deceased) deposed almost
similar facts as deposed by her husband PW-1/Complainant
Kallu Khan i.e. the admitted fact of marriage, bringing her
daughter to their house at the time of her illness and pregnancy,
her husband PW-1 receiving a call from accused Asif Khan
informing about the death of their daughter, reaching the
matrimonial house of her daughter, informing the police and
further investigation proceedings. Witness correctly identified
accused. Ld. Addl. PP for the State also cross-examined PW-
2 on the same lines of cross-examination of PW-1. However, she
did not support the case of prosecution and denied each and
every suggestion. Witness was cross-examined by Ld. Defence
Counsel. 3.3 PW-3 SI Vinod Singh being the duty officer proved
the copy of FIR as Ex.PW-3/A and Certificate under Section 65B
qua the present FIR as Ex.PW-3/B. Witness was not cross-
examined. ARVIND by ARVIND
 BANSAL
State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar
 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:25:51 +0530 Page 5 of 19 3.4 PW-4 Atul Ramchiary deposed that on 06.11.2020,
he was posted at Seemapuri Sub Division as Executive
Magistrate. At about 06:13 PM, SI Rajeev Kumar from PS
Harash Vihar made a call to him and informed that one lady
namely Nazmeen had hanged herself in C-Block, Harash Vihar.
He directed the IO to call the crime team and get the spot
photographed. He also told the IO to visit the hospital on the next
day at about 10 AM for getting the postmortem of the deceased
conducted and for recording of statement of the parents of the
deceased. On 07.11.2020 at about 11 AM, he alongwith DEO
Amit, reached mortuary at GTB hospital where he met Ct. Rahul
from PS Harash Vihar and introduced himself to father of
deceased namely Kallu Khan. He got the statement Ex.PW-1/C
of father of deceased recorded on his dictation through DEO
Amit as narrated by Kallu Khan. The said statement was
recorded at mortuary GTB hospital. Thereafter, request for
postmortem form Ex.PW-4/A was prepared by Ct. Rahul as per
his directions. Inquest papers Ex.PW-4/B were prepared. He also
recorded the dead body identification statement of one Chahat
Ex.PW-4/C. Dead body identification statement of Kallu Khan is
Ex.PW-1/A. Thereafter, he gave directions to SI Rajeev for
registration of FIR and taking necessary action on the basis of the
statement of Kallu Khan. Witness was cross-examined at length. 3.5 PW-5 Chahat deposed that he is the real uncle
(chacha) of deceased Nazmeen. To the best of his knowledge,
Nazmeen got married to accused Asif in the year 2021 in Delhi.
It was the period of Lockdown due to Covid-19, and the Nikah
State vs. Asif Khan Digitally signed FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar Page 6 of 19 ARVIND by ARVIND BANSAL
 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:26:02 +0530
 ceremony had taken place at the aforesaid address. He was
present during the marriage ceremony. Suddenly one day, he
received information from his mother that Nazmeen had hanged
herself. He alongwith his brother Kallu Khan and some
neighbors went to the matrimonial home of Nazmeen near
Mandoli Delhi. They found that Nazmeen was lying unconscious
at a bed in the room in her matrimonial home. She was shifted to
GTB hospital. He also went to hospital. Next day, he received the
dead body of Nazmeen from the mortuary at GTB hospital as his
brother Kallu Khan was not in an emotional state to receive the
body. His statement for identification of dead body of Nazmeen
Ex.PW-4/C was also recorded. Witness was cross-examined by Ld. Addl. PP for the
State. However, witness denied to have any knowledge about the
fact of alleged dowry demand of Rs.1.50 lakhs put forth by the
accused Asif. He further stated that his statement (under Section
161 Cr.P.C.) was not recorded. Witness was cross-examined. 3.6 PW-6 Insp. Rajeev Kumar being the IO of the case
deposed that on 06.11.2020, on receipt of said DD 38A, he
alongwith Ct. Rahul reached at spot i.e. H. No. 137, Gali No. 8,
Rajiv Nagar, Mandoli, Delhi. They went to the first floor of said
house and found one lady lying in unconscious condition on bed
lying on the said floor. On local inquiry, it was revealed that
name of said lady is Nazmeen @ Muskan whose marriage was
solemnized on 02.06.2020 with accused Asif S/o Anwar. It was
also revealed that the said Nazmeen @ Muskan had committed
suicide by hanging on ceiling fan and her mother-in-law Zahira
State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar Page 7 of 19 ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL

 BANSAL 16:26:09 +0530
 Date: 2024.09.19
 Bano and her brother-in-law/devar Sohail brought her down from
the ceiling fan. He informed concerned SDM Sh. Atul Ramachari
about the incident who directed them to call crime team at the
spot, to take photographs, to take the lady to the hospital and to
inform the relatives of said lady. After sometime, Crime Team
came to the spot and spot was photographed. One multi color
chunni was found lying on the bed and same was sealed with the
seal of 'RK' and seized by me vide seizure memo Ex.PW-6/P-1.
Thereafter, deceased was taken to SDN Hospital where he
collected her MLC and dead body of deceased was got preserved
at GTB Mortuary. After informing the relatives of deceased, he
returned to PS and deposited the case property at Malkahan PS.
 On 07.11.2020, he alongwith Ct. Rahul reached at
GTB Hospital Mortuary where father of deceased Kallu Khan
and uncle Chahat of deceased also reached. Meanwhile, SDM
Atul Ramachari also reached there and recorded the statement of
Kallu Khan Ex.PW1/C. On the basis of statement of Kallu Khan,
he prepared rukka Ex.PW-6/P-2 and same was handed over to Ct.
Rahul for getting the FIR registered. After some time, Ct. Rahul
returned and handed over the copy of FIR and original rukka to
me. Postmortem of deceased was got conducted and her dead
body was handed over to her father and uncle. He recorded
statement of Chahat, SDM Atul Ramachari and Incharge Crime
Team under Section 161 Cr.P.C. He collected the SOC report
from Incharge. Thereafter, they reached at the parental house of
deceased C-60, Janta Mazdoor Colony, Welcome, Seelampur and
recorded the statement of her mother namely Parveen under State vs. Asif Khan Digitally signed
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar ARVIND by ARVIND
 BANSAL Page 8 of 19 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:26:18 +0530 Section 161 Cr.P.C. and from there, they went in search of
accused Asif Khan alongwith Kallu Khan at his house situated at
Mandoli Extension. Asif Khan was found there and at the
instance of Kallu Khan, he was arrested vide arrest memo
Ex.PW-1/D and his personal search was also conducted vide
memo Ex.PW-1/E. Disclosure statement of accused Asif Khan
Ex.PW-6/P-3 was also recorded. At the instance of Kallu Khan,
he prepared site plan already Ex.PW-1/F.
 That accused Asif was brought to PS. Next day, you
were sent to JC. Meanwhile, he collected the Postmortem report
of deceased. Kallu Khan had named mother-in-law of deceased
Zohra Bano in his statement and thus, he went in her search at
the house matrimonial house. She was found there and was
inquired. Her disclosure statement was recorded wherein she
stated that she had never demanded any dowry and always
pacified the dispute between his son Asif Khan and deceased
Nazmeen. He prepared the chargesheet wherein Zohra Bano was
kept in column no. 12. During investigation, he recorded the
statement of witnesses and filed the chargesheet before the Court.
Witness correctly identified accused Asif Khan. Witness was not cross-examined. 4. Vide separate statements recorded under Section
294 Cr.P.C., accused Asif Khan admitted the genuineness of
Scene of Crime Report/Finger Print Expert Report dt.
06.11.2020, Postmortem Report No. 1276/2020 dt. 07.11.2020,
Statement of Photographer HC Shri Bhagwan, MLC bearing no.
5643/20 dt. 09.11.2020 of deceased Najmin @ Muskan and
Verified copy of GD no. 0038A as Ex.A1, Ex.A2, Ex.A3, Ex.A4,
State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL Page 9 of 19 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19 16:26:27 +0530
 Ex.A5 (colly), Ex.A6 and Ex.A7 respectively. 5. On completion of prosecution evidence, separate
statement of accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C whereby all
the incriminating material/evidence available on record was put
to him. He denied the prosecution case in its entirety and stated
that his deceased wife had a pre-marital affair with someone and
the said boy committed suicide after her marriage. Once his wife
came to know about the suicide of the said boy, she also
committed suicide out of depression. He was falsely implicated
by his in-laws. She was residing at her parental house for last
about 5 months and had returned to him only 3-4 days prior to
her death. He do not know what all transpired at her parental
house during the aforesaid period. 6. Final arguments advanced by Sh. Pradeep Kumar,
Ld. Addl. PP for State and Sh. K. P. Sharma, Ld. Counsel for
accused heard. Record carefully perused. Arguments: 7. It is argued by Ld. Addl. PP for State that
prosecution succeeded in proving the guilt of accused on the
basis of clear testimony of PW-1 Kallu Khan proving his
statement Ex.PW-1/C before the Executive Magistrate. It is
stated that PW-1 and other prosecution witnesses like PW-2
Praveen and PW-5 Chahat proved the factum of marriage of
accused with the deceased. It is stated that their statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. are categorical against accused and their
hostility in their deposition before the Court may be attributed to State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL Page 10 of 19 BANSAL 16:26:35 +0530 Date: 2024.09.19
 social pressure. It is stated that the accused used to regularly
taunt and harass the victim, and an additional dowry of Rs.1.50
lacs was demanded from the victim as well as her parents. It is
argued that victim was harassed by accused and due to continued
misbehaviour and harassment at the hands of accused, she
committed suicide on 06.11.2020. It is submitted that accused be
convicted for the charged offences. 8. Per contra, it is the argument of Ld. Defence counsel
that the allegations of prosecution against the accused are false,
vague and unreliable. It is argued that none of the prosecution
witnesses supported the case on material particulars. It is
submitted that no allegation either of demand of dowry or or
harassment of deceased for any such demand could be proved by
the prosecution during trial. It is the argument that statement of
any witness under Section 161 Cr.P.C. can not be read against
the accused to hold him guilty. It is stated that there is no
substantial allegation against the accused reflecting any
proximate event or trigger for commission of suicide by the
victim. It is argued that victim was under stress and depression
due to the suicide of boy with whom she had pre-marital affair. It
is submitted that no money was ever demanded from victim
Nazmin @ Muskan or her parents at any point of time and the
prosecution failed to prove demand of any such money. It is
stated that the case of prosecution being full of deficiencies,
make the accused eligible for acquittal. Submissions heard at length. Record carefully
perused. ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL

State vs. Asif Khan BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:26:46 +0530
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar Page 11 of 19 Precedent on point of 'presumption' U/s 113B : 9. Before adverting to the appreciation of evidence on
record, it is observed that Section 304B IPC is distinct from the
other penal provisions of the Code in as much as it shifts the
burden upon the accused to dislodge the 'presumption' that such
person had caused the dowry death of the victim. In other words, Section 304B IPC read with Section 113B of Indian Evidence
Act raises a presumption as to commission of dowry death of a
women if it is 'shown' that soon before her death, such women
was subjected by accused to cruelty or harassment for, or in
connection with, any demand for dowry. The aforesaid burden
cast upon the accused is not only onerous but also lowers the
standard of proof required from the prosecution to prove the
commission of offence of dowry death. While dealing with the aforesaid issue of
'presumption' and 'burden of proof' in a case of dowry death, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, while discussing the thorough
jurisdiction on the subject, in case titled Sher Singh @ Partapa vs
State Of Haryana AIR 2015 SC CRI 481 observed as under :- State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL Page 12 of 19 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:26:55 +0530
 13 In Section 113A of the Evidence Act Parliament has, in the case
 of a wife's suicide, "presumed" the guilt of the husband and the
 members of his family. Significantly, in Section 113B which
 pointedly refers to dowry deaths, Parliament has again employed
 the word "presume". However, in substantially similar
 circumstances, in the event of a wife's unnatural death, Parliament
 has in Section 304B "deemed" the guilt of the husband and the
 members of his family. The Concise Oxford Dictionary defines the
 word "presume" as: supposed to be true, take for granted; whereas
 "deem" as: regard, consider; and whereas "show" as: point out and
 prove. The Black's Law Dictionary (5th Edition) defines the word
 "show" as- to make apparent or clear by the evidence, to prove; The normal rule is that a defendant is presumed to be inno-
 cent until he is proved guilty; it is therefore the duty of the
 prosecution to prove its case by establishing both the actus
 reus of the crime and the mens rea. It must first satisfy the
 evidential burden to show that its allegations have some-
 thing to support them. If it cannot satisfy this burden, the de-
 fence may submit or the judge may direct that there is no
 case to answer, and the judge must direct the jury to acquit.
 The prosecution may sometimes rely on presumptions of
 fact to satisfy the evidential burden of proof (e.g. the fact
 that a woman was subjected to violence during sexual inter-
 course will normally raise a presumption to support a charge
 of rape and prove that she did not consent). If, however, the
 prosecution has established a basis for its case, it must then
 continue to satisfy the persuasive burden by proving its case
 beyond reasonable doubt (see proof beyond reasonable State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL Page 13 of 19 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:27:03 +0530
 doubt). It is the duty of the judge to tell the jury clearly that
 the prosecution must prove its case and that it must prove it
 beyond reasonable doubt; if he does not give this clear di-
 rection, the defendant is entitled to be acquitted. 14 As is already noted above, Section 113B of the Evidence Act
 and Section 304B of the IPC were introduced into their respective
 statutes simultaneously and, therefore, it must ordinarily be as-
 sumed that Parliament intentionally used the word 'deemed' in Sec-
 tion 304B to distinguish this provision from the others. In actuality,
 however, it is well nigh impossible to give a sensible and legally ac-
 ceptable meaning to these provisions, unless the word 'shown' is
 used as synonymous to 'prove' and the word 'presume' as freely in-
 terchangeable with the word 'deemed'. In the realm of civil and fis-
 cal law, it is not difficult to import the ordinary meaning of the
 word 'deem' to denote a set of circumstances which call to be con-
 strued contrary to what they actually are. In criminal legislation,
 however, it is unpalatable to adopt this approach by rote. We have
 the high authority of the Constitution Bench of this Court both in State of Travancore-Cochin v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashewnut Fac- tory AIR 1953 SC 333 and State of Tamil Nadu v. Arooran Sugars
 Limited (1997) 1 SCC 326, requiring the Court to ascertain the pur-
 pose behind the statutory fiction brought about by the use of the
 word 'deemed' so as to give full effect to the legislation and carry it
 to its logical conclusion. We may add that it is generally posited
 that there are rebuttable as well as irrebuttable presumptions, the
 latter oftentimes assuming an artificiality as actuality by means of a
 deeming provision. It is abhorrent to criminal jurisprudence to adju-
 dicate a person guilty of an offence even though he had neither in-
 tention to commit it nor active participation in its commission. It is
 after deep cogitation that we consider it imperative to construe the
 word 'shown' in Section 304B of the IPC as to, in fact, connote
 'prove'. In other words, it is for the prosecution to prove that a
 'dowry death' has occurred, namely, (i) that the death of a woman
 has been caused in abnormal circumstances by her having been
 burned or having been bodily injured, (ii) within seven years of a
 marriage, (iii) and that she was subjected to cruelty or harassment
 by her husband or any relative of her husband, (iv) in connection
 with any demand for dowry and (v) that the cruelty or harassment
 meted out to her continued to have a causal connection or a live link
 with the demand of dowry. We are aware that the word 'soon' finds
 place in Section 304B; but we would prefer to interpret its use not
 in terms of days or months or years, but as necessarily indicating
 that the demand for dowry should not be stale or an aberration of
 the past, but should be the continuing cause for the death under Sec-
 tion 304B or the suicide under Section 306 of the IPC. Once the
 presence of these concomitants are established or shown or proved
 by the prosecution, even by preponderance of possibility, the initial
 presumption of innocence is replaced by an assumption of guilt of
 the accused, thereupon transferring the heavy burden of proof upon State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL Page 14 of 19 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:27:12 +0530
 him and requiring him to produce evidence dislodging his guilt, be-
 yond reasonable doubt. It seems to us that what Parliament intended
 by using the word 'deemed' was that only preponderance of evi-
 dence would be insufficient to discharge the husband or his family
 members of their guilt. This interpretation provides the accused a
 chance of proving their innocence. This is also the postulation of Section 101 of the Evidence Act. The purpose of Section 113B of
 the Evidence Act and Section 304B of the IPC, in our opinion, is to
 counter what is commonly encountered - the lack or the absence of
 evidence in the case of suicide or death of a woman within seven
 years of marriage. If the word "shown" has to be given its ordinary
 meaning then it would only require the prosecution to merely
 present its evidence in Court, not necessarily through oral deposi-
 tion, and thereupon make the accused lead detailed evidence to be
 followed by that of the prosecution. This procedure is unknown to
 Common Law systems, and beyond the contemplation of the Cr.P.C . 17..... Therefore, the burden of proof weighs on the husband to
 prove his innocence by dislodging his deemed culpability, and that
 this has to be preceded only by the prosecution proving the presence
 of three factors, viz. (i) the death of a woman in abnormal circum-
 stances (ii) within seven years of her marriage, and (iii) and that the
 death had a live link with cruelty connected with any demand of
 dowry. The other facet is that the husband has indeed a heavy bur-
 den cast on his shoulders in that his deemed culpability would have
 to be displaced and overturned beyond reasonable doubt.
 ... It is also important to highlight that Section 304B does not require
 the accused to give evidence against himself but casts the onerous
 burden to dislodge his deemed guilt beyond reasonable doubt. In
 our opinion, it would not be appropriate to lessen the husband's
 onus to that of preponderance of probability as that would annihilate
 the deemed guilt expressed in Section 304B, and such a curial inter-
 pretation would defeat and neutralise the intentions and purposes of
 Parliament. A scenario which readily comes to mind is where
 dowry demands have indubitably been made by the accused hus-
 band, where in an agitated state of mind, the wife had decided to
 leave her matrimonial home, and where while travelling by bus to
 her parents' home she sustained fatal burn injuries in an accident/
 collision which that bus encountered. Surely, if the husband proved
 that he played no role whatsoever in the accident, he could not be
 deemed to have caused his wife's death. It needs to be immediately
 clarified that if the wife had taken her life by jumping in front of a
 bus or before a train, the husband would have no defence. Examples
 can be legion, and hence we shall abjure from going any further. All
 that needs to be said is that if the husband proves facts which por-
 tray, beyond reasonable doubt, that he could not have caused the
 death of his wife by burns or bodily injury or not involved in any State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar Page 15 of 19 ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:27:21 +0530
 manner in her death in abnormal circumstances, he would not be
 culpable under Section 304B. 19 We must consider, lastly, whether the prosecution has
 successfully 'shown' that the deceased was subjected to cruelty
 which was connected with dowry demands. We may usefully
 reiterate here that keeping in perspective the use of "shown" instead
 of "proved" the onus would stand satisfied on the anvil of
 preponderance of evidence. 22 ... What motivated or compelled her to take this extreme and horrific
 step will remain a mystery, as we are not satisfied that the
 prosecution has proved or even shown that she was treated with
 such cruelty, connected with dowry demands, as led her to commit
 suicide. In the normal course dowry demands are articulated when
 the marriage is agreed upon and is certainly reiterated at the time
 when it is performed and such demands continue into a couple of
 years of matrimony. In normal course, if a woman is being tortured
 and harassed, she would not remain reticent of this state of affairs
 and would certainly repeatedly inform her family. This is specially
 so before she takes the extreme step of taking her own life. Added
 to this are the inconsistencies and contradictions between the
 statements of PW4 and PW7 with regard to the panchayat and the
 presence of and knowledge of Gurdip Singh. It is for these reasons
 that we are of the opinion that the prosecution has not
 shown/presented and or proved even by preponderance of
 probabilities that the deceased had been treated with cruelty
 emanating from or founded on dowry demands.
 ..." Appreciation of Evidence : Prosecution proffered to discharge the statutory
burden as discussed above on the strength of testimony of PW-1
Kallu Khan and PW-2 Praveen i.e. the parents of

State vs. Asif Khan
 ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL

FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:27:29 +0530 Page 16 of 19 deceased/victim. Both the witnesses testified that accused Asif
Khan and his mother never demanded any money from their
daughter. They also deposed that in September 2020, when they
brought their daughter to their home during her illness, accused
came to their house in the first week of October 2020 and
accompanied her back to the matrimonial house. Both the witnesses were declared hostile by the
prosecution and cross-examined at length. PW-1 and PW-2
specifically denied the suggestions of Ld. Addl. PP for the State
that their daughter committed suicide due to the continuous
mental and physical harassment meted out to her by accused in
connection with dowry demand of Rs.1.50 lacs. They also denied
that accused again demanded the said amount of dowry when he
visited their house in first week of October. The suggestion of
Ld. Addl. PP for the State that deceased called them 5 to 7 days
prior to her death and informed about her harassment for demand
of dowry of Rs.1.50 lacs, was also candidly denied by the
witnesses. PW-1 deposed that he made a statement against the
accused to the concerned executive magistrate as he was
emotionally weak at that point of time due to the sudden death of
his daughter. 11. A bare perusal of the testimony of both the witnesses
would provide that prosecution could not show/prove even at the
lowest standard that soon before her death, victim was subjected
to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand
for dowry. The mere proof of the fact that death of victim
occurred within seven years of marriage and it occurred
otherwise than under normal circumstances, would not be State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar Page 17 of 19 ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL

 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:27:37 +0530
 sufficient to raise a presumption of guilt against the accused as
required by Section 113B of Indian Evidence Act. Similarly, no
allegation, simpliciter of demand for dowry or causing cruelty for
demand of dowry was made against the accused and all the
suggestions of prosecution in this regard were denied by the
witnesses. The case of prosecution for offence under Section
498A IPC also falls to ground. 12. Prosecution has also examined the then Executive
Magistrate PW-4 Atul Ramchiary to prove the recording of
statement Ex.PW-1/C of the father of victim. While the
recording of statement Ex.PW-1/C stood proved, the truthfulness
of the contents thereof remained far from being proved as the
deponent of the said statement did not stand ground at the time of
his testimony before the Court. Mere proof of recording of
statement would not prove the occurrence of offence against the
accused. 13. A public witness namely Chahat examined as PW-5
did not provide any succor to the case of prosecution as he also
denied knowledge of demand for dowry of Rs.1.50 lacs by the
accused from the parents of deceased. He infact denied recording
of his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. by the IO. He denied
recording of his statement despite the Ld. Addl. PP for the State
reading out the statement to him. 14. PW-6 Insp. Rajeev Kumar is the investigating
officer who reached the spot after being informed of the
occurrence of death of the victim. He completed the necessary State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar
 ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL Page 18 of 19 BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19 16:27:45 +0530
 legal formalities of getting the postmortem of the deceased
conducted, getting the statement of family members recorded
from the Executive Magistrate arresting the accused and filing
the chargesheet. There is nothing incriminatory against the
accused in the statement of PW-6 Insp. Rajeev Kumar. 15. A careful analysis of the evidence adduced by
prosecution would suggest that the basic ingredient of the offence
of dowry death i.e. cruelty or harassment of the victim for or in
connection with the demand for dowry soon before her death,
remained elusive to the case of prosecution. As laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sher Singh (Supra), when the
prosecution failed to prove its case against the accused even on
the standard of preponderance of probabilities, to show the
existence of basic ingredients of offence, the presumption
provided under Section 113B would remain inoperational and
can not play out against the accused. 16. In the opinion of this Court, the benefit of doubt in
the case of prosecution created due to the insufficiency and
inconsistencies in the evidence of the witnesses, must be
accorded to the accused. Accordingly, accused namely Asif Khan
stands acquitted of the charged offence u/s 498-A / 304B IPC. Announced in the open ARVIND Digitally signed by
 ARVIND BANSAL

Court on 19.09.2024. BANSAL Date: 2024.09.19
 16:27:55 +0530

 (ARVIND BANSAL)
 Additional Sessions Judge-05 (Shahdara)
 Karkardooka Courts, Delhi. State vs. Asif Khan
FIR No. 902/2020, PS Harash Vihar Page 19 of 19