“Members of public are hereby cautioned not to share account login details, personal information, copies of KYC (Know Your Customer) documents, card information, PIN, password, OTP, etc. with unidentified persons or agencies,” the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) warned in a press release . It also directed users to not share details through unauthorised websites or applications.

The customers must immediately inform their bank branch in case they receive such a request, the statement added.

Online scams and ATM frauds constitute a major chunk of cyber crimes as digital banking makes swift inroads in our lives. The Parliament in February this year said that over 2.9 lakh cyber security incidents related to digital banking were reported in 2020. With KYC becoming the norm to access banking services, many cyber criminals are looking to exploit this mechanism to dupe unsuspecting customers, who are not well-versed with technology incidentally, into revealing their confidential information like OTP and bank account details. Victims have no hope for redressal in such cases as red tape ensures the process drags on for months if not years.

The central bank said that it is seeing an increase in complaints about frauds being perpetrated under the guise of updating KYC.

“The usual modus operandi in such cases include receipt of unsolicited communication, such as calls, SMS, emails, etc., by a customer urging them to share certain personal details, account login details, card information, PIN, OTP, etc. or install some unverified application for KYC updation using a link provided in the communication,” the bank explained.

The scammers often lace their requests with threats of closure of bank accounts. It leads to the customer sharing information with the fraudsters who then defraud the customers which can inflict significant financial losses upon victims.

Also read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event