IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL "H", BENCH
 MUMBAI

 BEFORE SHRI MAHAVIR SINGH, JM
 &
 SHRI M.BALAGANESH, AM ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 (Assessment Year :2014-15)
 M/s. Hinduja Realty Vs. Dy. CIT, Circle - 7(1)(2)
 Ventures Ltd., Room No.126, 1st Floor
 171, Hinduja House, Aayakar Bhavan,
 Dr. Annie Besant Road M.K.Road, Mumbai-400020
 Worli South, Mumbai
 PAN/GIR No.AAACM4995M
 (Appellant) .. (Respondent) ITA No.2569/Mum/2019 (Assessment Year :2014-15)
 Dy. CIT, Circle - 7(1)(2) Vs. M/s. Hinduja Realty
 st
 Room No.126, 1 Floor Ventures Ltd.,
 Aayakar Bhavan, 171, Hinduja House,
 M.K.Road, Mumbai-400020 Dr. Annie Besant Road
 Worli South, Mumbai
 PAN/GIR No. AAACM4995M
 (Appellant) .. (Respondent)

 Assessee by Shri J.D.Mistri / Shri S.K.Mutsaddi
 & Shri H.Y.Gujar
 Revenue by Shri B. Srinivas

 Date of Hearing 23/07/2019

 Date of Pronouncement 13/09/2019

 आदे श / O R D E R

PER M. BALAGANESH (A.M): 2. Let us take up the assessee's appeal first in ITA
No.1090/Mum/2019. 2.1. The first issue to be decided in this appeal is as to whether the ld.
CIT(A) was justified in confirming the addition made in the sum of Rs.155
Crores towards share capital and share premium u/s.68 of the Act in the
facts and circumstances of the case. 2.2. The assessee has raised the following grounds in this regard:- M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd., ii) On the erroneous basis the assessee company had failed to
 provide justification for the premium. iii) On the unsustainable basis that the creditworthiness of the
 subscriber of shares had not been established. iv) That the binding judicial precedence cited before him did not apply
 to the case of the assessee company. v) By disregarding the evidence produced by the assessee
 company." 3. The brief facts of this issue are that the assessee is in the business
of real estate development and management of properties. The ld. AO
observed that during the year under consideration, the assessee has
issued 310000 equity shares of face value of Rs.10/- per share with a
premium of Rs.4990/- per share to M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd., a company
incorporated in Mauritius. The assessee was asked to establish the
genuineness of the transaction along with the identity and
creditworthiness of subscriber of share capital together with the
genuineness of the transactions in the course of assessment
proceedings. The assessee responded before the ld. AO by stating that
M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd., is a company incorporated in Mauritius having
tax residency certificate No. IN/2990 and assessed to income tax at
Mauritius under tax account number 27186403. The said company had
subscribed to 310000 equity shares of face value of Rs.10/- each at a
premium of Rs.4990/- per share in the assessee company under Foreign
Direct Investment (FDI) route. The details of the shares allotted by the
assessee company to M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd., are as under:- company bank account maintained with IndusInd Bank Ltd., on the
following dates:- M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd., (e) Copy of financial statements of M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. as on

31/03/2014 and copy of agreement entered into between M/s.Rabna

Holdings Ltd. and assessee company were provided by Mauritian tax

authorities. (f) M/s. Amas Ltd., is incorporated in Bahamas (g) Shri Prakash P Hinduja, brother of Shri Ashok P Hinduja (main

promoter of the entity being shareholder of assessee company) is one of

the Directors of M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. (h) Hinduja group is a multinational conglomerate, headquartered in

London and is headed by Shri Srichand P Hinduja along with other

brothers Shri Gopichand P Hinduja and Shri Prakash P Hinduja and Shri

Ashok P Hinduja. (i) For valuation of receipt of equity from a group company, an enterprise

valuation was made for the assessee company and the same was

furnished during the course of assessment proceedings. (j) It is seen from the financial statements of M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd.

that they had received loan from M/s. Amas Ltd., which is also a Hinduja

group company and that the same funds were utilised for making

investment in share capital and share premium in assessee company. This

goes to prove that M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. and M/s. Amas Ltd., are part

of the same group. ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

3.3. The ld. AO later observed in his order that M/s. Amas Ltd., is

incorporated in Bahamas and that on perusal of offshore leaks data base

of International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) shows one

entity by name M/s.Amas Ltd., in the "Bahamas Leaks". The ld. AO

concluded that source of money that had emanated from Bahamas (which is

tax haven) through M/s. Amas Ltd., cannot be accepted as a genuine

transaction. The ld. AO concluded that receipt of funds in the form of share

capital and share premium has been structured by the assessee company

from its group entities based in Mauritius and other tax havens such as

Bahamas. He also observed that since M/s. Amas Ltd., features in the list of

entities discovered as a result of investigation carried out by ICIJ in Bahamas

leaks and therefore the ultimate source of the funds used for making

investments into the assessee company remain suspect. He concluded that

no attempt had been made whatsoever by the assessee company to provide

necessary documentary evidences to establish the creditworthiness of the

subscriber of shares along with nature of the transaction especially in view of

the fact that foreign entities involved are group companies and specific

observations have been made with regard to suspect nature of funds

originating in tax haven being used for making said investments in the

assessee company. Accordingly, he observed that assessee had not clearly

discharged its onus to prove three necessary ingredients cumulatively i.e.

identity of the share subscribers, genuineness of transactions and

creditworthiness of the share subscribers within the meaning of Section 68 of 8 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

the Act. With these observations, the ld. AO brought to tax the sum of Rs.155

Crores as unexplained cash credit u/s.68 of the Act in the assessment.

3.4. The assessee pleaded before the ld. CIT(A) as under:- is an assurance. The assessment cannot be made with suspicion and
 surmises ignoring concrete evidence. b) Rabna Holdings Ltd., Mauritius is a corporate entity controlled by
 Mr. Prakash P, Hinduja, a non-resident for many decades, who is a
 multi-billionaire himself. The theory of Ld. AO of the presumption u/s.68 of the Income Tax Act cannot be applicable to the assessee's case. Firstly
 the origin of the source is not located in India. Secondly, Rabna
 Holdings Ltd. is a Tax Resident of Mauritius holding a valid Tax
 Residency- Certificate of Mauritius. Thirdly, it is not a "related party" of
 the assessee company. Fourthly, the source of investment by Rabna
 Holdings 14x1. i.e. source of source is also proved by the document
 available on record and that only Amas Ltd. is from Bahamas by itself
 cannot be held against the assessee, especially, when there has never
 been any remittance from India from at any given point of time. This is
 contrary to basic tenants of justice that unless otherwise proved person
 is non-guilty. Here the assessee company has given all the direct 9 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

evidence and coupled with circumstantial evidence even the "non-guilty" under the FDI route. Thus, the assesse company discharged the entire
onus cast upon it u/s.68 of the Income Tax Act and it is not fit to make an
addition u/s.68 of the Income Tax Act. In the above context, reliance is
placed on two Bombay High Court in the case of CIT vs. Orchid
Industries Pvt. Ltd. (2017) 397 ITR 136 (Born.), which has considered
the decision of division Bench of Bombay High Court in the case of CIT
v». Gagandeep Infrastructure P. Ltd (2017) 394 ITR 680 (Bom) &
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs. Lovely Exports (P) Ltd (2008) 216 CTR (SC) and held at Para 5 of the order as under: - e) Mumbai Tribunal in ITA No.: 3212/Mum/2014 (Sunshine Metals &
Alloys) pet their order dtd.12.10.2018 has deleted an addition made u/s.68 of the Income Tax Act in respect of bogus share capital & share
premium by holding that if (a) the assessee has furnished the name,
address and PAN and share application forms to prove that the shares
were allotted to the applicant and (b) the bank statements show that
money was received through banking channels, there were no immediate
withdrawals to suggest that the share application amounts have been
returned back to these parties in cash, it means that the assessee has
discharged the primary onus cast upon it to prove the identity, capacity
and genuineness of the transaction, thereby deleting the addition made u/s,68 of the Income Tax Act. f) As stated by the AO at Para 4.3.2 & 4.3.3 of the assessment order, the
FT&TR has explained that the investment made by Rabna Holdings Ltd.
is funded out of loan from Amas Ltd. Bahamas, This further stands
confirmed by the confirmation statement given by Amas Ltd. Bahamas in
its communication dtd.28.02.2018 to Rabna Holdings Ltd., Mauritius
that for investing in the shares of HRVL (the assessee), the said Amas
Ltd. had given a loan to Rabna Holdings Ltd. in the F.Y. 2013-14, The
above confirmations as received from Rabna Holdings Ltd, are enclosed
separately at Pages 65 to 66 of the compilation. This is not additional
evidence as the above fact stands confirmed by the FT&TR and as stated
by the AO at Para 4.3.3 of the assessment order. (g) The Delhi High Court in CIT v. Russian Technology Centre Pvt. Ltd . - XTA Nos.547, 549 & 555 of 2013 per their order dtd.15,12,2016, while
dismissing the appeal filed by the Department upheld the ITAT order in
37 Taxman.com 400 that if the identity of non-resident remitter is
established and money has come in through banking channel, it cannot
be treated as deemed income u/s.68 or 69 of the Income Tax Act . In the
decision while granting relief, the ITAT had relied on the CBDT Circular
No,5 of 20.02.1969 and the decision of Finlay Corporation Ltd. - 86 ITD
626 and Saraswati Holdings Corporation INC - 16 SOT 535.

The Tribunal in Russian Technologies further noted that:- 9. It then concluded that- 11.7. Taking into consideration of all the above, we find merit in the
document of the Id. Counsel for the assessee .that the primary burden i
the assessee was duly discharged. The issue of primary onus is to be
weighed on the scale of evidence available on the record and the
discharge of burden by the assessee is also to be decided on the basis
of documents filed by the assessee and facts and circumstances of each 12 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd. ,

 case and on that basis a reasonable view is to be taken as to whether
 the assessee has discharged the primary onus of establishing the
 identity of share applicant, its creditworthiness and genuineness of the
 transaction. From the documents filed during the course of assessment
 and before CITA), the independent existence of the share applicants in
 Russia is clearly established. The assessee's application to FIPB for
 raising the capital contains all the relevant details which is favourably
 accepted by the Board, particularly by allowing the assessee to raise
 further the capita! without approaching the PIPE. The transactions
 are through banking channels. Thus the gamut of evidence does not
 leave any doubt in the discharge of primary burden of the assessee. On
 the issue CBDT Circular and Finlay Corporation Judgment (supra)
 also we are in agreement with the Id. Counsel for the assessee that in
 these circumstances of the case moneys remitted by non-residents
 through banking channel outside India has to be held as capital
 receipts, not exigible to tax and cannot be treated as deemed income
 on the fictions created by sections 68 and 69 of the Act. In
 consideration of all these observations, we are inclined to hold that the
 share application money as raised in the grounds of appeal cannot be
 held as non-genuine and added as income of the assessee u/s 68 of the
 Act Consequently, additions made on this count, as raised m. grounds
 of appeal, are deleted. Assessee's grounds of appeal on this issue are
 allowed." h) In Russian Technologies referred to Supra, not only the Delhi High
Court approved the principles as laid down by (CBDT Circular Ko.S
dtd.20.02.I969 that if money has come from non-residents through
banking channel, source of source cannot be questioned) and the ITAT
decision of Finlay and Saraswati but also relied on the Delhi High
Court decision in Divine Leasing & Finance Ltd. - 299 ZTR 268,
where the High Court had held as follows; i) The Delhi High Court in Pondi Metal & Rolling Mills, ITA No.
788/2006 as reported in TMI 652/2007 has held that once it is proved
that money is received by an assessee from a corporate shareholder,
incorporated in Mauritius, no addition is possible in the hands of the
assessee. At best, the addition / investment can be examined in the hands
of the Mauritius company. The Supreme Court has dismissed SLP Held
by the Department against this order, thereby confirming Delhi High
Court decision. j) The Mumbai ITAT in its decision dtd. 10th l Nov. 2O17 passed
in the case of Manjari Stud Farm Pvt Ltd. ITA no. 3842/Mum/2017
and ITA No. 4329/Mum/2012. The relevant conclusion of the case is
given below: 3.5. The ld. CIT(A) observed that M/s. Amas Ltd., name was reflected in

the list of tainted entities in „Bahamas Leaks‟. Since the assessee refused to

provide details regarding source of funds with M/s Amas Ltd and it also

failed to provide any justification for charging such a huge premium and

immediate source of funds in the case of M/s Rabna Holdings Ltd was

funds from a tainted related company, the ld AO concluded that the

assessee has failed to discharge its burden of establishing the

creditworthiness of the subscriber company. Accordingly, amount of Rs.

155,00,00,000/- found credited in the books of account maintained by the 15 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

assessee was held as unexplained and was taxed in the hands of the

assessee u/s 68 of the IT Act. 3.6. The ld. CIT(A) provided another opportunity to furnish evidence to

prove the source of funds and creditworthiness of M/s. Rabna Holdings Ltd..

In response, the assessee vide submission dated 12/12/2018 submitted

two letters claimed to have been received from M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd.

and M/s. Amas Ltd., confirming the loan transactions between them and

also confirming the subscription of equity shares in the assessee

company. The ld. CIT(A) on perusal of those two letters observed that

they have been printed on plain paper and not on the letterhead of the

respective companies. No address of the entities were mentioned in those

letters, the name and designation of the person signing those letters were

not mentioned. Those letters were notarized in India. The ld. CIT(A)

observed that how the letters signed on behalf of the entities registered

in Mauritius and Bahamas were notarized in India. Since those letters

contained certain deficiencies as listed above, the ld. CIT(A) observed

that they do not have any evidentiary value. Accordingly, the ld. CIT(A)

concluded that assessee had failed to provide details regarding source of

funds and financials of M/s. Amas Ltd despite the fact that it is claimed to

be related party of the shareholder of the assessee company. The ld.

CIT(A) observed with regard to reliance placed by the assessee on 16 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

Circular No.5/1969 dated 20/02/1969 that on examination of the contents

of the Circular it is evident that the same was issued in altogether

different context which is entirely different from the facts of the case of

the assessee. The ld. CIT(A) further observed as under:- In view of these facts, the addition of Rs. 155,00,00,000/- made by the
 AO u/s 68 of the IT Act is upheld and these grounds of appeal are
 dismissed. 4. Aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before us. 5. We have heard rival submissions and perused the materials

available on record. The primary facts stated hereinabove together with

various documentary evidences placed on record before the lower

authorities remain undisputed and hence, the same are not reiterated for

the sake of brevity. We find from the perusal of the aforesaid narrated

facts supported with documentary evidences that M/s.Rabna Holdings

Ltd., a Mauritius based entity, a group company of Hinduja group had

invested in share capital of the assessee company. M/s.Rabna Holdings

Ltd. had received loan from M/s. Amas Ltd., a company incorporated in

Bahamas. This loan was utilised by M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. to make

investment in share capital of the assessee company. Hence, the source

of funds for the assessee company is established beyond doubt. The

assessee is required to explain the nature and source of credit appearing

in its books in the form of share capital and share premium in the light of 18 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

provisions of Section 68 of the Act. The nature of credit is in the form of

share capital and share premium. The source of credit is money received

from M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd., a Mauritius based entity. In the instant

case, the assessee has also proved the source of source i.e., source of

funds for M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. being loan received from M/s. Amas

Ltd., Hence, the source of source is also proved in the instant case by the

assessee. We find that the ld CITA had upheld the addition on the ground

that the assessee had not proved the source for Amas Ltd i.e source of

source of source, which is not required to be proved by the assessee

company herein, as per law. It is very pertinent to note that all these

documents were collected by FT & TR division of CBDT from Mauritius tax

authorities under exchange of information in terms of Section 90 of the

Act and relevant DTAA provisions. It is not in dispute that FT & TR

division had indeed submitted a report wherein all these documentary

evidences were forwarded to the ld AO. The identity of the share

subscriber is proved by the assessee as the amount received from

M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. which is also confirmed by FT & TR division in

their report and also by Mauritius tax authorities. From the financials of

M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. as on 31/03/2014, as confirmed by Mauritius tax

authorities and FT & TR division of CBDT, the investment made by

M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. in the shares of assessee company are duly

reflected in their balance sheet. The monies had been received by the 19 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

assessee company from M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. through normal banking

channels under FDI route after obtaining proper approvals from FIPB &

RBI. The relevant statutory forms in this regard have been duly filed by

the assessee with FIPB and RBI, on which there is absolutely no dispute.

Hence, it could be safely concluded that the receipt of monies in the form

of share capital and share premium by the assessee from M/s.Rabna

Holdings Ltd., Mauritius based entity had got the blessings of FIPB and

RBI and more so the monies were received through normal banking

channels. This proves the genuineness of the transactions carried out by

the assessee. It is not in dispute that M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. had

borrowed loan from M/s. Amas Ltd., a company incorporated in Bahamas,

which fund has been used for making investments in shares in assessee

company. This fact is duly confirmed by Mauritius tax authorities and FT

& TR division of CBDT on which fact there is no dispute. This proves the

creditworthiness of the share subscriber i.e., M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd.

Hence, it could be safely concluded that assessee had duly established

the three necessary ingredients of Section 68 of the Act i.e., identity of

the share subscriber, genuineness of the transaction and creditworthiness

of the share subscriber. 5.1. We are unable to persuade ourselves to accept to the argument of

the ld. DR that assessee had not furnished the copy of income tax return 20 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

of M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. for the relevant year and the intimation, if

any, issued by Mauritian tax authorities to M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. for

the relevant year and hence, the source of funds and creditworthiness of

M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. cannot be accepted. In this regard, we hold that

merely because the investor had not filed its income tax returns, it does

not make the entire transactions bogus or the said investor non-existent.

If an investor company in Mauritius had not filed its income tax return,

then it is for the Mauritian tax authorities to take necessary action against

the said company and assessee cannot be faulted for the same. With

regard to another observation made by the ld. CIT(A) that the letters filed

in page 65 & 66 of the paper book by M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. and M/s.

Amas Ltd., duly confirming the entire loan transactions and investment in

share transactions had some deficiencies in the form of not submitting the

same in letterhead, not having the address, not mentioning the name of

the person who had signed the said letter etc., we find that contents in

the said letter have been otherwise duly confirmed by both Mauritian tax

authorities as well as by FT & TR division of CBDT. It is not in dispute that

Mauritian tax authorities had indeed confirmed the fact that M/s. Amas

Ltd., had given loan to M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. and M/s.Rabna Holdings

Ltd. had used the same for making investment in shares in assessee

company. The same fact is also confirmed by FT & TR division of CBDT.

When these facts are staring on us, we are not inclined to accept to the 21 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

finding of the ld. CIT(A) with M/s.Rabna Holdings Ltd. is only a mere pass

through entity and M/s. Amas Ltd., being incorporated in Bahamas is

found to be a tainted entity. All these observations of the ld. CIT(A) are

purely without any basis and not supported by any material evidences

brought on record. This is a classic case of the ld. CIT(A) disbelieving the

information obtained by CBDT, FT & TR division from Mauritian tax

authorities under exchange of information in terms of Section 90 of the

Act and relevant DTAA Article. The ld. AR placed on record various case

laws in support of its contentions. Since this is purely a factual matter, we

do not find it necessary to look into those case laws as in our considered

opinion, assessee had duly established three necessary ingredients of Section 68 of the Act of facts and on merits duly supported by all

documentary evidences. In view of the aforesaid observations, we direct

the ld. AO to delete the addition made in the sum of Rs.155 Crores u/s.68 of the Act. Accordingly, the ground Nos.1 to 4 raised by assessee are

allowed. 6. The next ground raised by the assessee is with regard to the

addition made under the head 'income from house property' in respect of

unit No.701 in the building Marvella. 6.1. The brief facts of this issue are that the assessee was asked to

submit details and workings of house property income offered to tax with

cogent supporting documents during the course of assessment 22 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

proceedings. The assessee replied that in respect of vacant premises in

the building Marvela aggregating to the carpet area of 13272 sq.ft in

respect of unit No.701, Annual Letting Value (ALV) was considered at

Rs.Nil as the said premises remain vacant throughout the year. The

assessee also submitted that the building in which the above vacant

premises are situated was occupied majorly by Hinduja Healthcare Ltd

which runs the hospital in the said premises. Hence, no other tenant was

willing to occupy the vacant premises i.e. Unit No.701. Accordingly, the

assessee was forced to offer the vacant premises to Hinduja Healthcare

Ltd., and after making some structural corrections to suit the

requirements of Hinduja Healthcare Ltd. The structural corrections carried

out by the assessee took considerable time and hence till such time, the

said property was remaining vacant. The assessee in these peculiar facts

and circumstances treated the ALV of the said property i.e., Unit No.701

at Rs. Nil u/s. 23(1)(c) of the Act. The assessee also placed reliance on

certain co-ordinate bench decisions of this Tribunal along with Bangalore

Tribunal and Lucknow Tribunal in support of its contentions. The ld. AO

applied the provisions of Section 23(4)(b) of the Act and applied fair

market value of the said property and arrived at the rate per sq.ft of

Rs.900 thereof. The ld. AO observed that similar property in the same

building had fetched the rent of Rs.2,06,00,000/- for a carpet area of

22,852/- sq.ft. Hence, proportionately for the carpet area of 13272 sq.ft 23 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

of the assessee, the deemed ALV was worked out to Rs.1,19,44,800/-.

The ld. AO granted deduction towards municipal taxes of Rs.3,01,388/-

and interest expenditure of Rs.45,68,737/- together with standard

deduction of 30% and then determined the taxable income from house

property at Rs.49,52,273/-. In this entire process, the ld. AO did not

mention anything about the claim made by the assessee u/s. 23(1)(c) of

the Act. Before the ld. CIT(A), the assessee made specific objection that

the Unit No.701 was measuring only 1365 sq.ft and hence in any case,

even if rental income is to be brought to tax, it could be taxed only in

respect of 1365 sq.ft and not 13272 sq.ft which admittedly included

corridor area and other common areas which was available for all tenants

put together. This fact was accepted by the ld. CIT(A). The break up of

this 1365 sq.ft was explained by the assessee as under:- 6.2. The assessee also pleaded before the ld. CIT(A) that the said unit

No.701 remained vacant as no one was willing to occupy the same on the

grounds, that a Hospital was being run out of the 29,525 sq.ft. of area in

the building Marvela. The other portion of the building was being

occupied by the nurses and letting out to a third party was not possible. 24 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

Unit No, 701 was let out on 01.01.2015 after making it fit for nurses of

the hospital. Hence for reasons stated above, Unit No.701 remained

vacant in the F.Y. 2013 - 14. The ld. CIT(A) directed the ld. AO to work out

the rental income only in respect of 1365 sq. ft as against 13,272 sq. ft . In

this entire CIT(A)‟s order, there was no mention about the claim made by the

assessee regarding section 23(1)(c) of the Act. 7. Aggrieved the assessee is in appeal before us. 8. We have heard rival submissions. It is pertinent to understand the

provisions of Section 23 of the Act which reads as under:- (a) the sum for which the property might reasonably be expected to let
 from year to year; or (b) where the property or any part of the property is let and the actual rent
 received or receivable by the owner in respect thereof is in excess of the
 sum referred to in clause (a), the amount so received or receivable; or (c) where the property or any part of the property is let and was vacant
 during the whole or any part of the previous year and owing to such
 vacancy the actual rent received or receivable by the owner in respect
 thereof is less than the sum referred to in clause (a), the amount so
 received or receivable : (emphasis supplied by us)
 Provided that the taxes levied by any local authority in respect of the
 property shall be deducted (irrespective of the previous year in which
 the liability to pay such taxes was incurred by the owner according to
 the method of accounting regularly employed by him) in determining the
 annual value of the property of that previous year in which such taxes
 are actually paid by him. 8.1. From the aforesaid provisions more particularly the clause C of Section 23(1) of the Act, it could be seen that where the property was not 25 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

let out during the year, the Annual letting value should be considered as

nil. The ld. DR before us vehemently placed reliance on para 5.5 and para

5.6 of the assessment order wherein the provisions of Section 23(4)(b) of

the Act and various case laws were discussed. We find that all those case

laws and the provisions of Section 23(4)(b) were to be applied prior to

introduction of Section 23(1)(c) of the Act. Once there is specific

provision introduced in section 23(1) (c ) of the Act, it would prevail over

other sections, because it contains specific clause for vacancy allowance

to the assessee. The ld. AR also placed reliance on the co-ordinate bench

decision of this Tribunal in the case of Premsudha Exports (P) ltd., vs.

ACIT reported in 110 ITD 158(Mum) in support of its contentions wherein

the head notes are as under:- 8.2. From the aforesaid narration of facts, it could be safely concluded

that assessee had genuine intention to let out unit No.701 along with

other units in the same premises and derive rental income thereon. But

due to circumstances beyond its control, it could not do so till 31/12/2014 26 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

in respect of unit no. 701 alone and ultimately the said unit after making

certain structural corrections had been let out to Hinduja Healthcare Ltd.,

from 01/01/2015 onwards and rental income derived thereon. Hence, for

A.Y.2014-15, this property was not let out as it was remaining vacant and

hence, the annual letting value in terms of Section 23(1)(c) of the Act

should have to be determined at Rs.Nil. In view of the aforesaid

observations and respectfully following the judicial precedents

hereinabove, we direct the ld. AO to determine the Annual Letting Value

(ALV) of Unit No.701 at Rs.Nil and delete the addition made thereon.

Accordingly, the ground No.5 raised by the assessee is allowed. 9. The ground No.6 with regard to disallowance made u/s.14A of the

Act under normal provisions of the Act. The ground No.7 is with regard to

disallowance u/s.14A of the Act vis-à-vis computation of book profit

u/s.115JB of the Act. 9.1. The brief facts of this issue are that the assessee derived tax free

income of Rs.22,93,75,890/- by virtue of share in partnership firm. The

assessee made suo moto disallowance in the return income u/s.14A of

the Act r.w.r.8D of the rules in the sum of Rs.3,09,60,385/-. The said

disallowance admittedly included the disallowance made towards interest

without considering the decision of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the

case of HDFC Bank reported in 383 ITR 529. The ld. AO proceeded to

make computation under rule 8D(2) of the rules as under:- 27 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 The ld. AO adopted rule 8D of the rules as worked out above and
disallowed Rs.4,18,76,669/- u/s.115JB of the Act.

9.3. The ld. CIT(A) accepted the workings of the assessee for
disallowance u/s.14A of the Act r.w.r.8D of the rules wherein the
assessee had considered the net interest i.e. interest paid less interest
received for the purpose of computing disallowance under second limb of
rule 8D(2) of the rules. Accordingly, he gave relief to the assessee in this
regard under normal provisions of the Act. The ld. CIT(A) held that as far
as the computation of book profits u/s.115JB of the Act is concerned, no
disallowance u/s.14A of the Act could be made as per the computation
mechanism provided in rule 8D of the rules in view of the decision of
Special Bench of Delhi Tribunal in the case of ACIT vs. Vireet Investments
Pvt Ltd. , reported in 165 ITD 27. However, the ld. CIT(A) placed reliance
on the Co-ordinate Bench of Mumbai Tribunal in the case of DCIT vs. 28 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

Reliance Natural Resources Ltd., dated 11/08/2017 wherein 10% of
exempt income was sought to be disallowed while computing book profit u/s.115JB of the Act. The ld. CIT(A) followed the said decision and
directed the ld. AO to disallow Rs.2,29,37,589/- under clause f of
Explanation 1 to Section 115JB(2) of the Act. 10. Aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before us vide ground 6 & 7. 11. We have heard rival submissions. We find that assessee has also
raised additional ground on the issue of disallowance u/s.14A of the Act. Ltd. - 165 ITD 27 (Delhi) and Bombay High Court in Ballarpur
 Industries Ltd., Income Tax appeal No.51 of 2016. ii) By applying the principle that when the assessee has sufficient
 interest free funds available, this is a presumption that the same has
 been utilized in making investments, and any disallowance of interest
 ought to be computed taking the same into account - HDFC Bank Ltd.
 (Bom) - 383 ITR 529 and Sintex Industries Ltd. - 93 taxman.com (SC). 2. The learned AO & CIT(A) ought to have held that notwithstanding
 the facts that the assessee had computed a disallowance u/s.!4 A of Act ,
 the same ought to have been based on the well settled and binding law laid down by the courts and Tribunal." 11.1. We find that these additional grounds go to the root of the matter

and does not require any verification of facts and hence, the same are

admitted and taken up for adjudication. ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

11.2. We find at the outset that the disallowance made by the assessee

suo moto in the sum of Rs.3,09,60,385/- was made as per computation

mechanism provided in rule 8D(2) of the rules by considering the net

interest i.e., interest paid less interest received under second limb of rule

8D(2) of the rules. From the perusal of the balance sheet, we find that

assessee had got sufficient own funds in its kitty and hence, there is no

need to make any disallowance of interest under second limb of rule

8D(2) of the rules. Accordingly, by placing reliance on the decision of

Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of HDFC Bank reported in

383 ITR 529 and Reliance Utilities and Power Pvt. Ltd., 313 ITR 340, we

direct the ld. AO to delete the disallowance made under second limb of

rule 8D(2) of the rules. 11.3. With regard to the third limb, we hold that only investments that

had yielded exempt income should be considered and the ld. AO is

directed to recompute the disallowance under third limb of rule 8D(2) of

the rules accordingly. The disallowance made under first limb of rule

8D(2) will remain. Accordingly, the ground No.6 and additional grounds

raised by the assessee are partly allowed. 11.4. With regard to disallowance u/s.14A of the Act r.w.r.8D of the rules

while computing book profits u/s.115JB of the Act, we find that the

Special Bench of Delhi Tribunal in the case of Vireet Investments had held

that the computation mechanism provided in rule 8D(2) of the rules 30 ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 M/s. Hinduja Realty Ventures Ltd.,

cannot be imported into clause f of Explanation-1 to section 115JB (2) of

the Act. The Special Bench further held that the disallowance of expenses

under Clause f need to be made based on actual expenditure debited to

profit and loss account by the assessee by clearly identifying the same for

the purpose of earning exempt income. Hence, we deem it fit and proper

to remand this issue to the file of the ld. AO for denovo adjudication to

decide in the light of the decision of Special Bench supra. Accordingly, the

ground No.7 raised by the assessee is allowed for statistical purposes. 12. The ground No.8 raised by the assessee is with regard to levying of

interest u/s.234A of the Act was not pressed by the ld. AR at the time of

hearing. The same is reckoned as statement made from the Bar and

accordingly, ground No.8 is dismissed as not pressed. 13. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed for statistical

purposes. 14. Let us take up the revenue appeal in ITA No.2569/Mum/2019. 15. We have heard rival submissions. We find that only issue raised by

the revenue in its appeal is with regard to netting off interest under

second limb of rule 8D(2) of the rules on the aspect of disallowance

u/s.14 A of the Act . We have already decided this issue in favour of the

assessee vide ground No.6 above. Accordingly, the ground raised by the

revenue is dismissed. TO SUM UP:- ITA No.1090/Mum/2019 & 2569/Mum/2019 16. The appeal filed by the assessee is partly allowed for

statistical purposes and the appeal filed by the revenue is

dismissed.