" Data Analyst Master Program ", Dated : 10-Apr-2021 Chaitra M, Senior Learning Consultant for Data Analytics Scientist, from Simpli-Learn had contacted us in April-2021 and told us that you can take free trial by giving debit card details and no fee will be charged. Let me mention very clearly that i have not watched any free/paid lectures from thier website nor logged in with any id/pw, i dont even know when they put all this on my name. ohk, so now the scene came up this way, that now in Sept-end days our bank statement told that some EMI is pending for some loan, which came as a shock as we had not purchased even a single thing on EMI nor we had any other loans from this bank. So we filed a complaint with the bank and the investigating team from the bank told that we had taken a loan (bigger shock) to pay for some classes fee (even bigger shock) named SIMPLI-LEARN through name "New Bazaar Technology". Then the bank told how many EMI we have paid and how many are pending plus the heavy fee which was charged due to EMI bounced/missed (i didn't knew i had a loan, why would i keep balance ready for EMI). Now when we contacted Simpli-Learn they said we had taken admission but not watched even a single online lecture. First Thing, we never wanted to take any admission, it was just the enquiry and free trial stuff (i didn't even take the free trial). Second thing, if i had taken any course by paying such fees like 45 thousand rupees, that too on loan, why would i not watch those lectures ? This was a total fraud from Simpli-Learn. Now when we have put emails in their complaint department, they are saying cancellation period was 7 days and now can not be refunded, and the solution they are giving is any other alternate course. But boss ? i never wanted to do any course nor do i want any other alternate course. i just want my loan EMI back, close my bank loan and missed EMI. I dont want any extra money in my bank account from you, nor am i saying give me full refund. just close that loan by giving the EMI to the concerned bank. settle whatever is there between you both, and give me back only the amount which was deducted in previous months. Please, we are not a rich family and can not afford such online coarses. Help us to solve this situation, we dont want any alternative coarses or lectures, just give us back our deducted amount and close that bank loan