SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My first ever relationship didn't work out and I am down in the dumps. Please help.
DATE: 2022-08-20
SCORE: 21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/wt6wvo/my_first_ever_relationship_didnt_work_out_and_i/

--- POST TEXT ---

Tl;dr: My first love. It started out really great. We both cared for each other and loved each other very much. Then she went to Delhi for offline classes for her Master's degree. There she met some new people and got into excessive drinking, smoking and drug abuse and stopped caring about me. She even started lying to me and her family. Even lied about her laptop being broken to get money from her father and gave thousands of rupees to her friends (who lost jobs because of their attitudes towards their work) for their various needs like alcohol, smoking, payment of EMIs etc. Rejected all my opinions and worries. She is anaemic and so I was worried about her health. We had countless arguments about how she's ruining her health and career and also betraying the trust of her family. I broke up in the end and she didn't even stop me once. I proposed that we could stay friends but she said she didn't even want to stay friends. Now she's putting up Instagram stories and WhatsApp statuses targeting me and how I was the problem and how she tried and failed and it's making me feel really bad. 

&gt;Here's the full story. 

This is going to be really long but please read. 

I (22M) was a new student and it was my Hostel's Freshers' Party for the new residents. I saw her (23F) (Let's call her Komi-San, because I like Anime) for the first time and developed a huge crush on her. She was one year ahead of me. I kept looking at her from afar for all of my 3 years of college life and never had enough courage to talk to her. During that time, I followed her on Instagram and she followed back. I once replied to her story and that was all. Nothing else. 

She graduated in 2020 when Covid hit and everyone was at home. Then I graduated in June 2021. Still, I had not contacted her. I had no hopes but I had even moved on from that crush-phase. I could never have imagined what would follow. 

In December 2021, we finally started talking because I had an argument with one of her friends (Let's call her Ren) about the irrelevance of new Ram Mandir and all the political gameplay of BJP. I must have offended Ren and she discussed it all with Komi-San. 

I replied to an Instagram story of Komi-San in December 2021 and she then brought up the topic of Ren and how Ren told her about the argument. Then she said that she also liked my standpoint and she doesn't support BJP and everything. 

After that, we chatted on Instagram almost everyday and discussed various things from studies to career to crushes and all. I told her that she was my crush. She told me about her previous relationship and how the guy was a total piece of shit. She said she had trust issues because of her previous relationship. (This information is vital) During December 2021 and January 2022, I was applying for my Masters' admission in Germany and I had told her about it all. After a while, we got really close and our days were incomplete without having a late night chat. Gradually we both developed feelings for each other and confessed in February 2022. She too was doing a Masters from Delhi University at that time. It was her last semester. Because I was preparing and planning for studies abroad, I had dropped a few months. 

Now, in February 2022, we got into a long distance relationship because we both were in our hometowns. By the end of February, she got called for offline classes and I too had to bring a document related to my bachelor's. We finally met in the last week of February. I stayed in Delhi for 8 days and we went on dates and all. She used to drink alcohol during bachelor's too but I drank alcohol for the first time with her. I had no problem with this at that time. I came back in the first week of March. 

Now this is where the problem began (according to me). 

Both boys and girls stayed at her PG. (No I didn't have any problem with that.) One day, she called me in the morning and said that she's in Chandigarh and is going to Manali and Kasaul with some people she met last night on the PG's Terrace which served as the common area where washing machines and a small kitchen were set up. It seemed a bit strange to me because she had told me how she has trust issues as I mentioned above. She went totally crazy with the amount of alcohol and cigarettes on that trip and the people with whom she went on the trip also made her try drugs. (I developed absolute hatred for those people from that day onwards because I hated cigarettes and drugs from the core.) 

Now, I had known that she was slightly anaemic but the way that trip affected her health got me worried. She was definitely now "slightly" anaemic. 

After that, I went to Delhi again for my Visa application in the 3rd week of March and due to some reason, my visa application could not be submitted. I stayed at her PG in her room for a week. I met those friends of her with whom she went on that trip.

Now, let's name those friends. 
P and Q are in a relationship and both have jobs. P (male) works in a private insurance company and Q (female) works for upGrad. 
S (male) is a friend of P and Q. He too works in the same private insurance company as P but at a different branch and at a lower post. 
D (Female) is Komi-San's batchmate and is pursuing a Master with her. 

When I was there, Komi-San demanded me for a party in celebration of my master's application getting selected at a German University. I obliged and why would I not?! Little did I know that in the name of the party, all we were going to get were alcohol and cigarettes. S went with me to buy everything because I had no idea what to buy and what not to. Now, as I said, I had no problem with alcohol but I hate cigarettes. Also, since alcohol and cigarettes worsen the condition of anaemia, I asked her to keep the amount of alcohol limited and to not smoke at all, to which she agreed. I had thought that I would not drink at all at that party. 

Now this jerk P comes into the scene and tries to forcibly make me drink. I resisted for a while and then went on to throw my glass in the washbasin. She seemed offended by that. She then started smoking too and sharing her cigarette with D and S. This S guy was being really touchy with Komi-San and D and she didn't say anything. Like, I was sitting right there in the room and he was kind of toppling over the lap of Komi-San and D as they both were sitting close together. I got really uncomfortable in that room. After a while, some more shady characters came into the room whom she and I had not known at all. They were carrying drugs and when P asked me to try and smell that, I left and went to another room and locked myself there. She didn't even call me back. Most probably, just a little while after I had left, she tried those drugs and totally forgot about me. It was only after a few hours, when everyone went back, that she remembered me and then asked me about why I had left the place. I told her all this and she didn't like it. She said that I was being disrespectful to her friends. She even went on and said that I wanted to create a scene out of it all. 

Things calmed down the following day and after a couple of days of this party, I went back to my hometown. I would be back in Delhi after about 10 days for some visa related work but what happened in those 10 days is also crucial. 

I'll briefly mention what happened during those 10 days. At Q's birthday party, Komi-San fell and hurt herself really bad after being extremely drunk. P blasted music so loud that neighbors complained about them and police came to their PG and took P and S with them. P also got charged with a case of money laundering and lost his job. Komi-San went with S at his home to meet his family and spent a night there. I definitely felt really uncomfortable with all this but I trusted her. 

I was then back at her PG in the second week of April. There were two major incidents that happened during this visit. Once, all of them were partying and I was just drinking cold drinks. One of D's friends, lets name her M, also came to the PG that night. After a lot of drinking and smoking, everyone went to sleep at around 4 in the morning but due to all the smoke that had gathered in the room and all the smell, I couldn't sleep properly and I woke up after a quick nap. I went to the balcony to get some fresh air. Suddenly, M came out on the balcony too and we then started talking about general stuff. She had mentioned that she wanted to learn either Japanese or German and as I had learned both the languages a bit, we had a small talk about it.

We didn't talk a lot and after a while I mentioned that we can watch something on the laptop. But as everyone else was sleeping, I suggested that we use earphones. 
Now, Komi-San woke up while we were watching and saw us and then immediately went back to sleep. 

Later, Komi-San mentioned how she didn't like that I shared earphones with M. I did tell her that it was only to not disturb other people's sleep, but she didn't believe me. 

Now, the other incident that happened during my April visit was that one day me and Komi-San were talking and suddenly, D came and whispered something into her ears. She then said that she is going to P and Q's room and will be back in a while. The time was around 9:30 PM. After about half an hour when she didn't come back, I called her but she didn't pick up. I called D too but she too didn't pick up. When I went to P and Q's room, they told me that Komi-San and D never came to their room. I sent a text on WhatsApp asking where they were because at that point I was worried because it was around 10:30PM and they were not there in the whole PG. The area, where that PG was, was also not quite safe. I don't think anywhere in Delhi is safe at late night. D replied to my text and told me they were "there". I don't know what "There" meant. I got worried and also got angry at her that she was not telling me where she was. I then went outside and after about half an hour, she started calling me. I was angry and didn't pick up. I put my phone on silent and walked around eating ice-cream to calm myself down. When I went back to the PG, she was angry at me for not picking up the phone. She had called 25+ times within half an hour. About 1 call per minute. She said I didn't pick up because I wanted to take revenge from her because she didn't tell me where she was. 

She seemed to calm down in the next 2 days and things went back to normal. She then went to a club with everyone and asked me to not come with them because P will pay for it all and I shouldn't add to the expense. She told me that they would be back at around 1:00 AM. I agreed after a few exchanges of arguments. I stayed up all night waiting but they didn't come back. They came back in the morning and she told me how they had to stay at a hotel because one of them got sick after drinking too much. 

I then came back to my hometown. Now, that was the last time that I met her. I haven't met her since 14th April. On the very next day that I came back home, they all went on a trip to Rishikesh. I rarely called her when she was there and then when she came back, she asked me why I didn't call her. I told her that as she was on a trip, I wouldn't have known if she was free to talk or if she was busy and I didn't want to disturb her during her fun time of the trip. She angrily said to me that we should finish this relationship if things are going to continue like this but I somehow got her to stay. I almost cried while talking to her. I was so scared of losing her.

Her final semester exams were drawing near. She would have her first exam on 11th May. Now, after her return from the Rishikesh trip, whenever I called her, she would either say she's studying or she would tell me how they had a party last night. Then she went to her home and told me that she couldn't study at the PG. When she reached home, I asked if I can call and she told me it wouldn't be possible at home (although initially when we used to talk on phone, she was staying at her home only). During her stay at her home, I finally got my visa appointment and I asked her if I should pick a date in such a way that we can meet again when she's back in Delhi for her first exam and she told me that she'd go back home immediately after the first exam because there's a long break and that I should book the earliest date possible. So, I went to Delhi on 1st May and had my appointment on 2nd May. Then I came back on 3rd and on the morning of 4th May, she told me that she's back in Delhi because she was not feeling good at home and in the evening, she was partying with her friends.

During her exams, we talked really less as mostly she would tell me that she's studying for her exams and hang up. She used to call me in the morning whenever she had an exam. Other than that, we used to have minimal conversations. 

After the exams, she said she'd go back home and prepare for a government exam which was to be held in July. She used to prepare for in December too when we started talking. She stopping studying for it in March when she met those friends. 

Now, P and Q are in a really toxic relationship as far as I know. They would have physical fights where P banged Q's head in the wall once. Fist fights were common and Komi-San and D used to try and solve their conflicts. 

After exams and before going home, Komi-San was in Delhi for 5 days. P and Q fought during that time and once when I was missing Komi-San, I called her and snapped at me that she doesn't have time for this ridiculous things I am talking about and that she has other important things to deal with. It hurt me that she was trying to solve their conflict and was not even worried about how I felt. Now, during these exams, she once told me that she had started smoking regularly as opposed to earlier when she smoked only in parties. I was upset. 

Then she went home and once again we didn't talk on the phone. Then after about a week, she texted me late at night that she no longer feels the same way about me as she did earlier and that she needs a break. Calls and messages were not allowed. I used to cry every other day during showers and before going to sleep and a few times when she sent snaps and I wrote something, she'd give me cold replies. Once she sent a snap of herself in a car and I asked if she's travelling to somewhere and she wrote back "hmmm".

Later, when I almost broke down, I messaged her how lonely I felt and we started talking once again. She told me what happened during the one month of the break. P was already jobless and now Q lost her job too. Her company asked her to leave herself because if they fire her, her CV would be ruined. She used to not go to work because of her constant tight with P. P had bought a flat on down payment and after going jobless, he didn't even have enough savings to pay for it. He took money from his friends and as he didn't have any assets, he took loans from various websites which offer loan on huge amounts of interest. He even asked Komi-San for money and along with him, she called her father, P pretended to be a shopkeeper and talked to her father saying that her laptop has broken and needs to be repaired and she asked for Rs 12,000. She then gave 10,000 to P which he would most probably never return. He used to ask for money for alcohol, cigarettes, and food too. She even asked me to make a fake bill to show her father but I somehow managed to stop her from doing such a thing as her father is an accounts officer. 

Komi-San dropped the idea of studying for that government exam and took up a calling job in Byju's which was to start a few days after we both started talking again. She was not so sure about this job and on her first day, her father scolded her for going for a private job instead of working for something better which she was definitely capable of. Here, her father was wrong because he didn't even listen to her side of the story because she herself was having second thoughts about pursuing the job. After that incident, she immediately stopped going to work. But she didn't even go back home and said she didn't want to face her parents' drama. So, at this point she was not studying for anything, was jobless and feeding on her family's money living in a different city, partying with her friends. I asked her to go back home and confront her parents but she refused to. 

Now, all my visa paperwork and everything was done by this time and I had my ticket booked for 28th of July. As she was staying in Delhi, I asked her if we could meet one last time before I leave. She agreed but didn't sound excited about it. Then, on 27th, I left for Delhi as my flight was in the morning the next day. She told me that she had left for Chandigarh as D was calling her there. D is from Punjab, and after graduation she went back home. 

D was in Chandigarh at her cousins' house and Komi-San went there instead of meeting me. I was once again hurt. At this point, I was seriously doubting our relationship. She would never listen to my concerns about her health and would never prioritize our relationship. A few days later when Komi-San came back to Delhi, she told me that D's cousin N (male) is coming to Delhi and want her to be his tour guide. I was uncomfortable with all this but I didn't say it. Then, when he came to Delhi, the only place they went to is P's flat for partying. On the second day of N's arrival in Delhi, I called her at night and I just asked what she was doing. She told me that she was on the terrace of her PG. I said okay but then I heard noise in her background and then she told me that she lied and she was out with N, S, P and Q. The next day I asked why she lied and she got all angry saying why does such a lie matters when it was not affecting me. It was absurd that she even said such a thing. The following 2 or 3 days, we had arguments about all sorts of things, her drinking and smoking habits, drugs, how she deceived her father into giving her money for laptop, how she lied to me and everything. She just kept justifying herself somehow and in the end, when I asked her why she never listens to me, she said that it was her life and she didn't need to listen to me. 

That was when I snapped. I said that I want to breakup and go back to being friends because as she listened to her friends' advice, maybe she would listen to my advice too if we were friends. She straight up replied with, "okay let's break up and I don't even want to stay friends".

I was heartbroken and cried a few times. Here, I am in a new country. Alone. And now even she's not in my life. I am facing a lot of problems here regarding finding a permanent place to live and managing everything including my studies. 

I haven't talked to her after that but she keeps putting up Instagram Stories and Whatsapp Status targeting me. Once she posted a chat that she had with D in which they were talking about how Komi-San's choices (me) are so bad. She even wrote how she tried a lot to keep things good but failed when I was visibly putting more effort than her. She was just partying with her friends and ignoring me most of the times. I am disappointed with how she's reacting after the breakup.

Now, I want you people to say something to help me. If you think I was overreacting, say something to make me want to go back to her and I'll apologize. 
If you think she was wrong, say something to help me move on. I am absolutely torn.