[Order of the Court was made by K.K.SASIDHARAN, J.] 
 
INTRODUCTORY: Post "for admission" on 04 September, 2017. 3. The Union Government, the State Government, the Local
Administration, the IIT Chennai and a Non Governmental Organisation were made 
parties. We issued notices to them. The Director General of Police, Tamil
Nadu was directed to issue suitable advisories to the general public
cautioning them. The Government of Tamil Nadu and Education Department 
acted swiftly and complied with our directions. 4. The contents of the order dated 04.09.2017: 5. We have heard Shri.V.Kathirvelu, learned Assistant Solicitor
General of India appearing for the Union of India and Shri.M.Govindan,
Special Government Pleader for the State Government and its departments. We 
also heard Shri.Veera Kathiravan, Senior Counsel, Ms.Ananda Gomathi and 
Shri.K.P.S.Palanivel Rajan, advocates who acted as Amicus curiae.
Shri.Aravind, IPS, Ms.Lavanya ADSP and Shri.V.Rajendran, Principal Consultant 
Cyber Society of India offered their valuable inputs as domain experts.
Shri.Aravind, I.P.S., Ms.Lavanya, ADSP and Shri.V.Rajendran, Principal
Consultant, Cyber Society of India deserve to be specially appreciated and
thanked. They brought to bear their expertise on this proceedings. They
explained in simple terms and in a language that was totally free of any
technical jargon the intricacies in the matter. Due to their dedicated
participation in these proceedings, we were made aware of the magnititude of
the problem. We place our immense gratitude to all of them.
DISCUSSION: 6. The Blue Whale challenge is of fairly recent origin. It is believed
to have been started in Russia in 2013 and gained its notoriety among
teenagers and more particularly, students. We are informed that this game was
invented by a Russian Psychopath, who stated that he wanted "to clean the
Society of those are not fit to live". 7. The link is invariably supplied by Whatsapp Group and on opening the
link, the person would receive instructions from the administrator of the
Game. The first phase is to give the personal details, photograph, e-mail ID
and mobile number. This is to have a thorough idea of the person including
his location. Thereafter, the horror game would commence. The time prescribed
for completing each task is after 02.00 a.m., every day. 8. It is reported that even though "the enthusiasm to play the game
with thrill is the motivating factor initially, it is only the fear that
their personal information is hacked by the administrator that the players
are reluctant to come out of the death-trap. 9. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights took up
the matter on 04.05.2017 by calling upon the Ministry of Electronics and
Information Technology (Meity) to take immediate action to ban the game and
its spread in India. Thereupon, MeitY requested Google India to unlist/remove
the said game/apps from relavant platforms like Google Playstore for
avoiding further downloads/circulation in India. Compliance of the same was
instructed to be reported at the earliest. The reply from Google India Pvt
Ltd. vide its letter dated 22.05.2017 is revealing. While Google India
appreciated the concerns of the Union Government, they made it clear that
Google services such as Google Play are provided by Google Inc, a company 
incorporated under and governed by the laws of United States. It was made
clear that Google India does not play any role in providing the said
services. They claimed to have referred the matter to the Google Play Team
who have indicated that they are aware of the aforementioned game and are
continuing to take action on any apps that they find are in violation of the
Google Play Policy. It was also mentioned that if any user suspects an app
may be in violation of play policy, it can be reported. 10. We read and re-read the aforesaid response of Google India.
Google India has virtually washed its hands off. Action will be taken by
Google Play Team based in USA if their "Policy" is violated. MeitY had also
written to Microsoft India, Facebook India, Yahoo India and other social
media service providers requiring them to ensure that the link to the said
deadly game is immediately removed from their platforms. The proponent of the
game was to be reported to the Law Enforcement Agencies. The Central Board of 
Secondary Education has also issued a detailed circular addressed to all
Heads of Institutions affilated to CBSE setting out the series of measures to
be adopted by the Schools. 11. The Director General of Police issued a circular to all the
Commissioners of Police/Superintendents of Police to publicize the
precautionary measures and create awareness in this regard among the School 
and College Faculty, parents and students in their respective jurisdictions.
The Inspector of Police, Cyber Crime Cell, Madurai City submitted a report
setting out the measures taken by them such as surprise checking of the
Browsing Centres in their jurisdictions. A help line has also been opened for
counselling round the clock. It was submitted that they are watching the
social media and the websites intensely to find out the links regarding the
Blue Whale challenge. 12. On account of the steps taken by the Central and State Governments,
Blue Whale challenge is no longer downloadable. But then it continues to be
played online. There is information that the game is even now available under
other names such as 'A Silent House', 'Wake me up at 4.20 a.m' etc.. It is
played by using smartphones or similar devices. Cases of suicidal deaths
because of this game are being reported throughout the world including
India. On account of the intervention of the Police, there has been a case of
rescue of a woman at Puduchery. It came to be known that she was using a 
Russian based social media platform known as "Vkontakte". This networking 
application is similar to Facebook and is available over Android, iOS and
Windows platforms. But no direction can be issued by the Indian Authorities
to "Vkontakte" as it is not governed by the laws of India. 13. Even though Blue Whale game is no longer downloadable, it is
still available. The administrator is able to reach out to the potential
victims through what is known as "Over the top services" like Whatsapp,
Telegram, Wickr, Silent Circle, osTel, ChatSecure, Signal, ShareIt etc. They
can create closed communication/chatting fora which ensure anonymity of the
users. The law enforcement agencies are left in the dark as there is no
communication nodes to these service providers. The administrator of this
game uses any one of the aforesaid OTT services to communicate. The Police 
are left with no clue about the administrator as well as the players.
THREAT TO NATIONAL SECURITY: 14. One of the counsel raised the possiblity that the very same
modus operandi can be adopted by anti-national forces and international
terrorists. They can identify potential youth for radicalisation from the
mainstream platforms like Facebook, Twitter etc. Once identified, the
selected people can be taken to closed groups over Telegram or Whatsapp where 
they can be further groomed and trained and radicalised. Thereafter,
specific instruction can be passed on for execution. It was whispered, rather
audibly at the Bar, that this is already going on. The threat to national
security from the net is far more serious than what is apparent now. 15. On account of the end - to - end encryption, the messages
sent over WhatsApp cannot be read or accessed by anybody except the users 
concerned. It was reported that the Islamic State terrorists had been using
WhatsApp to plot the November, 2015 Paris attacks. In March, 2017 the UK 
Secretary of State, Ms.Amber Rudd, stated that encryption capabilities of
messaging tools like WhatsApp are unacceptable as it has come to be known 
that Khalid Masood used this application minutes before perpetrating the
2017 Westminster attack. Ms.Rudd publicly demanded that Police and 
Inteligence agencies must be given access to WhatsApp and other encrypted 
messaging services to prevent future terror attacks. It is on record that the
perpetrator of the Stockholm attack in April, 2017 also used WhatsApp to
exchange messages. 16. It is this current reality and potential dangers that made
us to look beyond. Cyber investigation is still at a nascent stage in India.
The investigators are often at a dead - end because they have neither the
access to the communication inside the OTT services/ social networking sites
nor could they collect the crucial user information required for
investigation from the anonymous service providers. For instance, no one
knows who is operating "Telegram". It does not have a nodal officer who can
be called upon to comply with the directives that may be issued by the law
enforcement agencies. Even if they are available in India, they tend to take
the stand that the OTT service/social networking service is provided by
another company incorporated in USA or any other foreign country and that
therefore they are not in a position to furnish the information sought for.
They also claim that they do not have the obligation to comply with the
directions issued by the Indian Authorities. THE LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK: 17.At this stage, it is necessary to have a brief look at the
legal architecture. The Information Technology Act, 2000 enacted by the
Parliament was more to legally recognize e-commerce. Only the 2008 Amendment 
put in place the regulatory mechanism to deal with online offences and to
provide for preventive and remedial measures. Section 69-A of the IT Act
confers power to issue directions for blocking for public access of any
information through any computer resource. Section 69-B authorises the
Central Government to monitor and collect traffic data or information through
any computer resource for cyber security. Section 79 talks about the role
of the intermediaries. Rules have been framed setting out the procedure as
well as safeguards for blocking for access of information by the public, in
the year 2009. In the year 2011, rules were framed containing the guidelines
for the intermediaries. The intermediaries have to observe due diligence
while discharging their duties. CERT-In (Indian Computer Emergency Response 
Team) has been set up under Section 70-B of the IT Act, 2000. Rules have been
framed in 2013 cataloging the duties and functions of the said authority.
Rule 14 of Information Technology (The Indian Computer Emergency Response 
Team and Manner of Performing Functions and Duties) Rules, 2013 empowers the 
appropriate authority of CERT-In to seek information from service providers,
intermediaries, data centres, body corporates and any other person for
carrying out its statutory functions. The information sought for by the
authority must be furnished within the time and in the format stipulated. DIRECTIONS ISSUED BY THE HON'BLE SUPREME COURT: 18.We are not treading a virgin ground. The Hon'ble Supreme Court
rose to the occasion when the menace of child pornography in internet was
brought to its notice. Websites showing child pornography had mushroomed in 
thousands and assumed menacing proportions. The Supreme Court took cognizance 
of the matter in Kamlesh Vaswani Vs. Union of India [(2014) 6 SCC 705 and
(2016) 7 SCC 592]. The matter was listed from time to time. Finally, the
Government of India vide order No.813-7/25/2011-DS(Vol.5) dated 31.03.2015
directed all the Internet Service Providers to disable as many as 9 URLs.
The direction was issued under Section 79 (3) (b) of Information Technology
Act, 2000 as the content hosted on the said website related to morality and
decency, as dealt with in Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India. The
Supreme Court while adjourning the matter made it clear that all further
steps must be taken to stop child pornography. 19.The other major instance of intervention by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court was in a similar matter pertaining to enforcement of the prohibition of
advertisements for gender selection as set out in Section 22 of Pre-
Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection)
Act, 1994. When the Hon'ble Apex Court was informed that notwithstanding the
legal prohibition, Google India, Yahoo India and Microsoft Corporation were
disseminating advertisements in complete violation of the laws of the land,
it directed the Government of India to respond. Interestingly, the affidavit
filed by the Department of Electronics and Information Technology highlighted
the difficulties of enforcement as most of the Websites were hosted outside
the country. This helplessness expressed by the department was severely
frowned upon by the Hon'ble Bench presided over by His Lordship Mr.Justice
Dipak Misra (as His Lordship then was). It was made clear that every effort
has to be made to see that nothing contrary to the laws of the country is
advertised or shown in the websites. The response of the Union Government in
this case [ Sabu Mathew George V. Union of India (2017) 2 SCC 514, (2015) 11 
SCC 545] as well as that of the service providers is illuminating. It was
submitted by the Union Government that there are certain areas which can be
controlled and there are certain areas which may not be possible to be
controlled by Central Government. When the Hon'ble Supreme Court directed 
filing of a comprehensive affidavit by the Central Government, a meeting was
arranged with the service providers and their answers were placed on record.
The Hon'ble Supreme Court directed that the mechanism of auto-block must be 
introduced in this case. As a result, if any person tries to avail the
corridors of these companies, the device shall be adopted so that no one can
enter or see anything that falls foul of Section 22 of the Act. When the
service providers protested that this will have an adverse bearing on
freedom of access to information, the court made it clear that such freedom
cannot violate the law that holds the field. The Union Government was called
upon to constitute a nodal agency in this regard. If the directions of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court could be successfully implemented in the case of
enforcement of Section 22 of Pre-conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic
Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act, 1994, there is no reason as to
why inspiration cannot be taken therefrom for addressing the larger concerns
that have now come up before us. 20.The Government of India cannot be heard to say that agencies
will carry on their business operations in the territory of India but would
remain outside the reach of its law enforcement. The preambular declaration
is that the people of India had solemnly constituted India into a Sovereign
Republic. A sovereign has certain attributes, one of which is that those who
are within its territorial limits shall abide by its commands. 21.When a citizen of Spain wanted certain references in internet
to be deleted, he was asserting what has now come to be known as "Right to
be Forgotten". When Google resisted, it was ultimately made to comply with
the laws of the region by the European Court of Justice in Google Spain Vs.
Agencia Espanola. There are several nations in the world which have errected
a firewall in the national borders of the information highway. India is a
flourishing democracy. We have reiterated that privacy is a fundamental
right. There is a robust regulatory frame work. The authorities cannot act
in arbitrary manner. In Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (2015)5 SCC 1, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court while striking down Section 66-A of IT Act, 2000 upheld
the constitutional validity of Section 69-A and the Information Technology
(Procedure and Safegaurds for Blocking for Access of Information by Public)
Rules 2009. Section 79 of the Act relating to intermediaries was also
sustained by reading down Section 79 (3)(b) of the Act. The IT (intermediary
guide lines) Rules 2011 were also upheld in the same manner by reading down 
Rule 3(4). Therefore, there can be no apprehension that there will be
violation of the privacy rights of the citizens or that there will be a
surveillance State if the service providers are brought within the regulatory
framework. 22.The service providers cannot abdicate their responsibilities.
They cannot also plead that they have no control over the content. A mere
look at the net neutrality debate that is presently going on would show that
the service providers are in a position to have control over the content
that passes through their information highway. If the service providers can
attempt to control the content for commercial considerations, they can
certainly be called upon to exercise their power of control in public
interest also. Rather they must be mandated to do so. 23.Of course, there are certain long term solutions. ?Make in
India? is the ultimate answer. In fact India developed her own operating
system rivaling Microsoft Windows. It was tested and used about a decade
back. It was called BOSS (Bharat Operating System Software) designed, coded 
and developed by the State owned centre for the development of Advanced
Computing (CDAC). None other that the late President, Dr.A.P.J.Abdul Kalam
commended it. But due to lack of marketing, the product did not take off.
India continues to be dependent on the software and other systems developed
overseas. This compromises the national security also. 24.Ms.Anantha Gomathi, Advocate made her submissions based on the 
inputs given by Dr.Vasuda Prakash, Founder director of Ms.V Excel
Educational Trust, Chennai. The same is usefully extracted as under: 25. The Blue Whale is not a freely downloadable game but comes in a
secret social media group with a curator who "sends you the app" and tracks
you with your feedback and the results of the activities undertaken,
prompting the participants to send photos of the activities accomplished as
per instructions. It would be shocking to know that these activities include
getting up at 4 A.M., climbing down flights of hundreds of staircase-steps,
watching horror movies at night, walking outside alone at midnight, going to
the graveyard alone, spending a whole day in silence etc. Gradually, the
intensity or difficulty of the tasks increases, and advanced activities
include inflicting self-injuries on the body by cutting the skin. The Game
culminates with the final activity of going to a roof-top and jumping off a
high-rise to commit suicide. It sounds scary to even read this. It is further
shocking to know that there is reportedly an 'Indian curator' for the
challenge or some one with Indian victim-participation in mind, since the
final task ie Day-50 which was originally with an instruction to "Jump from
the top floor and kill yourself" has been reportedly changed for the Indian
victims as "Hang yourself" to suit the Indian conditions of not many high
rise buildings and yet 'facilitate' killing!. We have been coming across
several cases of suicide across the globe by participants in the Blue Whale
Challenge, and since the beginning of this year, such cases are being
reported almost daily. In India too, in the past few months, the media has
been reporting several such cases from down South in Kerala to the West in
Mumbai, and other parts of the country too. In many educational institutions,
school authorities have noticed increasing interest by the students to
explore this scary Challenge. It is curiousity, no doubt. It is reported that
some school authorities have noticed unusual and strange behaviour in their
students, and on investigation, they have discovered that these students were
participants in the Blue Whale Challenge. Unfortunately, on being questioned,
they first feigned ignorance of any such activity or 'Game'. Such
confidentiality by the participants is a social, psychological issue typical
for an adolescent and is to be handled with care by elders and seniors. DIRECTIONS: 26.Having considered the issue from all perspectives, we issue
the following directions:- expeditiously as possible to bring all the "Over The Top" services as well as
service providers into a legal framework obliging them to comply with the
laws of India and to provide the required information to the law enforcing
agencies. Methods must to be devised to ensure that those OTTs which could 
not be brought within such framework are not accessible in India.
ii. CERT-In is directed to collect the digital equipments such as smart
mobile phones, tablet computers and laptops used by the victims of Blue Whale
challenge game for conducting digital forensic analysis so that the source
of the game as well as the administrators of the game could be found out. iii. The internet service providers must be directed to take due diligence
to remove all the links and hash-tags presently being circulated in the
social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter etc and also in dark net
with URLs/links related to Blue Whale game. iv. The internet service providers in India must be called upon to furnish
information regarding downloads/access to suspicious links/URLs of the game,
prior to the removal from their platforms. v. The Central Government must seek co-operation and use its diplomatic
relationship with Russia to block the URLS/Links related to Blue Whale game
and penal action against the culprits on behalf of India.
vi. The Technology Companies and Websites follow the Laws of their 
respective jurisdiction and as such, they are not providing the "Data and
Information", in spite of making a request for it by the Law Enforcing
Agencies in India on account of violation of Indian Laws. This is evident
from the communication dated 22 May, 2017, received by the Director, Cyber
Laws and Security Group, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology,
Government of India from Google India Private Limited, that Google service,
such as Google play are provided by Google Inc, a company incorporated under 
and governed by the Laws of United States. The Central Government must 
address this issue seriously and consider amending the relevant Rules and
Regulations applicable to the Indian subsidiaries and websites making it
compulsorily amenable to Indian Laws. Shri.Dr.S.Murugan, I.P.S., an Expert in Cyber Law, presently functioning as
Joint Director, Department of Vigilance and Anti Corruption, Chennai - 16, as
the Nodal Officer in terms of Rule 4 of the Information Technology (Procedure
and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009.
This would be in addition to his duties as Joint Director, Department of
Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. ii. The Nodal Officer must in coordination with the Designated
 Officer appointed under Rule 3 of the Information Technology (Procedure
and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009
and other authorities must ensure the implementation of the order blocking
the website and removal of links. The State Government is directed to provide
necessary manpower and resources to the Nodal Officer for carrying out his
functions in larger public interest. It is open to the Nodal Officer to
take the assistance of other Experts in the field of Cyber Law and preferably
Ms.Lavanya, ADSP, who is presently with the C.B.C.I.D., Chennai.
iii. The Director General of Police is directed to ensure that the
instructions given vide circular bearing C.No.121311/General-1/2017 dated
01.09.2017 are complied with in letter and spirit. iv. The Principal Secretary to Government, School Education Department, the 
Principal Secretary to Government, Higher Education Department, the Director
of School Education and the Director of College Education shall take active
steps to ensure that all Educational Institutions in Tamil Nadu sensitize and
warn the students as well as the parents not only about this Blue Whale
challenge game but also the lurking dangers in the digital world.
v. The Government must constitute District and Taluk Level Committee 
comprising members from Non-Governmental Organization, Psychiatrists, 
Voluntary Organizations, Educationalists and all other stake-holders to chalk
out programmes for giving counselling taking the Educational Institutions as
a unit. The volunteers appointed by the Committee must take up the work of
counselling to students as a mission. They should earmark dedicated telephone
numbers, so as to enable those who are in need of counselling and their
parents to approach the volunteers for timely help.
vi. The Government must issue advisories periodically to the youth and
students in particular underlining the ill effects of this game and the
facilities available to come out of this dangerous game.
vii. The Superintendent of Police, Madurai Rural shall forthwith
transmit the digital equipments seized in connection with the suicide of
Vicky @ Vignesh to CERT-In for forensic analysis. viii. Those who are providing links and promoting this dangerous game
even after its ban must be prosecuted by invoking the relevant provisions of
the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Indian Penal Code .
ix. The Press and Media also owe a duty to the Society by reporting the
measures taken by the Government and other Agencies for counselling and 
appeal to the youth not to try this game on any account. CONCLUDING REMARKS: To 1.The Secretary to Government, 
 Union Ministry of Communications,
 Government of India,
 New Delhi. 2.The Official In-charge ,
 Computer Emergency Response Team, 
 Ministry of Communications,
 Government of India,
 New Delhi. 3.The Principal Secretary to Government,
 Home Department, 
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Fort St. George,
 Chennai. 4.The Director General of Police,
 Chennai. 5.The Commissioner of Police, 
 Cyber Crime (CBCID),
 Police Department,
 Chennai. 6.The Director of Social Welfare,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Chennai. 7.The Director of School Education,
 Chennai. 8.The Director of Collegiate Education,
 Chennai. 9.The Collector,
 Madurai. 10.The Commissioner of Police, 
 Madurai. 11.The Superintendent of Police,
 Madurai. 12.The Director of Indian Institute of Technology,
 Chennai. 13.The State Mental Health Authority,
 Chennai. 14.The Director,
 "Sneha",
 Suicide Prevention Centre,
 Chennai. .