- This Criminal Petition, under Section 482 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ' CrPC '), is

filed seeking to quash FIR in crime No.29 of 2021 of

C.I.D. P.S., A.P., Amaravathi, Mangalagiri, against the

petitioner, who is arrayed as accused No.37, and the

consequential order of remand dated 10.09.2023, and

the Order in Crl.M.P.No.1096 of 2023, dated 10.09.2023,

passed by the learned Special Judge for SPE & ACB

Cases-cum-III Additional District Judge, Vijayawada in

the aforesaid crime. 2. Based on a report lodged by the Chairman of the

Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (for

short, 'APSSDC'), the aforesaid crime was registered by

the CID. The allegations, in brief, are as follows. 13.12.2014. SIEMENS offers training programme in

collaboration with various State Governments. APSSDC

deputed a team to visit SIEMENS Centres of Excellence,

which were already established in Gujarat, and to

submit a report. During negotiations, State Government

agreed to establish SIEMENS Centre of Excellence,

Technical Skill Development Institutions and Skill

Development Centres in different clusters. Six clusters

were formed at the inception at a cost of

Rs.546,84,18,908/-, with SIEMENS and Design Tech

providing a grant-in-aid of 90% i.e. Rs.491,84,18,908/- and the Government's share thereof 10%

Rs.55,00,00,000/-, and a Memorandum of Agreement

(MoA) was entered into, between the APSSDC and

SIEMENS, pursuant to G.O.Ms.no.4, dated 30.06.2017

of Skill Development Enterpreneurship and Innovation

(Skills) Department. Tax investigation by the Additional

Director General, GST, Intelligence, Pune in respect of

claims of availing of CENVAT credit by M/s. Design Tech

Systems Private Limited and M/s. Skillar Enterprises 3 India Private Limited led to unearthing a huge financial

scam involving crores of rupees by M/s. SIEMENS

Industry Software India Private Limited and M/s. Design

Tech Systems Private Limited, and the funds relate to the

APSSDC. As per the Memorandum of Agreement, Design

Tech has to provide training software development

including various sub-modules designed for high end

software for advance manufacturing CAD/CAM. It does

not contemplate sub-contract. However, SIEMENS and

Design Tech sub-contracted a large part of its work to

M/s. Skiller Enterprises Private Limited, New Delhi with

self centric Solomnon's Wisdom. It is the claim of

Design Tech that Skiller Enterprises Private Limited

provided training software development including various

sub-modules designed for high end software for advance

manufacturing of CAD/CAM, and royalty and

subscription were paid to Skillar as they developed the

software. M/s. Skiller directly supplied the same to the

Skill Development Centers in Andhra Pradesh. 4 When the tax authorities confronted Skillar, it

claimed that no technical work was sub-contracted and

the training software development including various sub-

modules provided are technical material and royalty and

subscription were wrongly mentioned in invoices.

A.D.G.G.I., Pune concluded that both service provider

and service receiver took contradictory stands regarding

the nature of service, and in depth scrutiny into the

records by A.D.G.G.I. revealed that training development

software including various sub-modules shown as

supplied by Skillar to Design Tech were purchased by

Skillar from various companies. The said companies are

shell/defunct companies and they were issuing invoices

without providing any services and they formed into a

cartel for siphoning public funds tuning to Crores of

rupees. The Managing Director of M/s. Design Tech

admitted before the Assistant Director General that he

had no evidence to show that services were received from

these companies. After surfacing financial irregularities,

directions were given to the Corporation to conduct 5 Forensic Audit and to furnish a copy of the report for

taking further action. Accordingly, work order was

assigned to M/s. Sharat and Associates, Chartered

Accountants, Forensic Audit Firm. The firm conducted

enquiry and submitted its report pointing out the flaws

in policies, flaws in systems and utilization of funds and

analysis of various spending practices and to find out

irregularities, misstatements, governance procedures,

internal policies evaluation for the financial years 2014-

15 to 2018-19. M/s. SIEMENS and Design Tech had to

oversee the work of the clusters and their maintenance.

However, both of them swindled crores of rupees in

dubious manner. Basing on the complaint, CID

registered the aforesaid crime on 09.12.2021. 3. Petitioner herein is arrayed as A.37 in the said

crime. As per the remand report, allegations against the

petitioner are as follows. (a) Vendors M/s. Designtech and M/s.SISW

approached the petitioner through an intermediary who 6 was a TDP leader Mr. Illendula Ramesh and submitted

proposal for setting up of Centres of Excellence for skill

development, and as a part of conspiracy to

misappropriate the money from public exchequer, the

petitioner orchestrated the incorporation of the APSSDC

on 10.09.2014, bypassing the Council of Ministers and

appointed handpicked people and henchmen as MD &

CEO and Director of APSSDC, by deviating the Rules.

Without making any market survey or without following

other cannons of financial propriety, petitioner and A.38

gave concurrence to the project, and they gave a false

projection before the Council of Ministers that the

estimated cost of the project would be Rs.3,281.00 crores

(approx.) of which the technology partners would meet

90% of the cost of the project as grant-in-aid and the

State Government had to invest only towards 10% of the

cost of the project, and a draft of MoU/Tripartite

agreement, which was in contravention of the letter and

spirit of G.O.Ms.No.4, mentioning only that the

Government would release Rs.371.00 crores as a grant 7 for M/s. SISW and M/s. Design Tech to set up the Skill

Development Institutions, was approved by them. (b) It is further alleged that after the MoU was

signed, entire amount of Rs.371.00 crores was released

in advance by the State Finance Department and the

APSSDC to M/s. Designtech, even before sites were

selected for setting up of Skill Development Centres and

without obtaining any performance guarantee or bank

guarantee, and despite objections taken by Smt.

K.Suneetha, Secretary to Finance Department that

release of the amount is not appropriate for the various

reasons pointed out, amounts were released based on

the Order of the Chief Secretary and the petitioner.

Through M/s. Designtech, an amount of Rs.279.00

crores were siphoned off, through shell companies, fake

invoices, layered transmission of money and hawala

transactions of cash. (c) It is alleged that the accused conspired with

merchants M/s. Design Tech and its Managing Director

and the Managing Director of another merchant M/s. 8 SIEMENS, Pune, and the said entities/persons, having

entrusted with obligations imposed in GO Ms.No.4 and

the tripartite agreement, were entrusted with property

being money of the State amounting to Rs.371.00 crores

with clear cut direction of law as contained in the said

G.O., in any event as contained in the tripartite

agreement, have to perform the obligations of supplying

hardware and software as enumerated in the agreement,

but they committed criminal breach of trust with the

active conspiracy by the petitioner by not performing the

same in accordance with GO Ms.No.4 and the tripartite

agreement, and by over-ruling the objections raised by

the concerned Finance Department not to release the

amount and indulged in the acts of siphoning off the

entrusted government money, thereby liable under Section 409 and 120B IPC. Because of connivance of the

petitioner and A.38, monitoring committees as envisaged

under the G.O. were not established to oversee setting

up of the Skill Development Centres. (d) It is further alleged that all checks and balance

such as valuation of the project by a third party (Central

Institute of Tool Design) and maintenance of an Asset

Register through a competent agency were compromised

to hide the wrong doings of the accused, and the note

files pertaining to the project were removed from the

Secretariat by the accused soon after Central Tax

Agencies started unearthing this network of

misappropriation of funds. (e) The statements of witnesses and the note files

pertaining to the relevant G.Os. disclose that petitioner,

being a public servant during 2015-2019, abused his

position as public servant, obtained pecuniary advantage

to M/s. Designtech (A.4) which in turn parked the money

in other shell companies such as PVSP/Skillar, ACI,

Inweb and Patrick Info., etc. (f) It is further alleged that on the instructions of

the petitioner, A.1 coordinated and colluded with A.2,

A.6 to A.10 and got prepared cost estimation of Siemens

Project through the Siemens team led by A.6 without any 10 base, supported bills, quotations, reasonable explanation

of the cost, detailed project report, etc. and submitted

the same as a draft resolution of table item on

15.02.2015 i.e. one day before the cabinet meeting held

on 16.02.2015, and the Cabinet headed by petitioner,

approved the Skill Development Project as a special item,

without verifying the authenticity, basis for cost

estimation of the project, without getting third party

evaluation, without doing assessment and without

following tender process. On 04.03.2015, on the

representation of A.1, AP Cabinet headed by the

petitioner approved to sanction a budget of Rs.370.78

crores towards 10% contribution of the Government. (g) It is further alleged that the petitioner, with a

criminal intention to create green channel, to avoid

intervention and supervision of Principal Secretary,

Higher Education Department on the Siemens project,

brought APSSDC under SDE&I Department and got

direct access to the files relating to the project through

A.3. The petitioner, through A.38 and other accused, 11 fraudulently, falsely projected total project cost as

Rs.3281.00 crores (excluding taxes) without there being

any basis or assessment, and got issued G.O.Ms.No.4,

and he abetted, allowed, cooperated and coordinated A.3

and got the agreement executed with the technology

partners by the APSSDC through A.1 intentionally

omitting the important aspects viz. 90% contribution of

the technology partners and bank guarantee clauses in

the MoU and done official favour to get wrongful gain to

the technology partners and gave scope to them to avoid

their 90% contribution and to cause wrongful loss to

government funds and did not insist on 90%

contribution of the technology partners and did not ask/

verify the contribution by the technology partners to do

official favour to them. The petitioner, without taking

into consideration of the adverse remarks of the officials

of finance department noted on the abrupt release of

government funds, instructed the officials of the finance

department through the then Chief Secretary to release

funds immediately without taking 90% contribution from 12 the technology partners as grant-in-aid and got approved

the budget of Rs.371.00 crores. (h) It is further alleged that on 14.05.2018, a

complaint from the DGGSTI Office, Pune was sent to

ACB and disclosed all the details of routing of APSSDC

funds to shell companies through fake invoices without

providing services to APSSDC by M/s. Design Tech and

others, and though a regular enquiry was ordered by

ACB, but not done anything during tenure of the

petitioner as Chief Minister, and with a criminal

intention, no steps were taken to stop misappropriation

of APSSDC funds in the Siemens Project. The

petitioner, through A.1, caused disappearance of

evidence i.e. original note file relating to GO Ms.No.4,

dated 30.06.2016 through A.3, who was in possession of

the file, only to escape liability of commission of the

offence and destroy the crucial evidence connected to the

case. (i) It is alleged that the petitioner committed the

offences alleged with prior conspiracy with A.38, A.1, A.2 13 and other accused; led the Cabinet, approved the cost

estimation of the project received through A.1 without

any assessment, verification, proper DPR and evaluation;

approved release of government contribution of

Rs.370.00 crores to M/s. Design Tech through his

cabinet and allotted the Siemens project on nomination

basis and without any tender process; being public

servant, conspired, colluded with A.38 and others, with a

criminal intention, released government funds without

verifying the contribution of technology partners, allowed

the other accused to do fraudulent and illegal acts,

committed misappropriation of government funds to a

tune of Rs.279.00 crores, which were entrusted to them

or under their control, by corrupt and illegal methods;

abused his official position, fraudulently committed

criminal breach of trust and with a common intention,

caused wrongful loss to the government exchequer;

through A.1, allowed other accused and others to divert

APSSDC funds by using fake invoices as genuine one for

the purpose of cheating through shell, defunct 14 companies without providing materials/services to the

APSSDC-Siemens project by M/s. Design Tech, by

conspiring, colluding and intentionally co-operating in

commission of the offence with several acts by the

Directors of companies and private persons concerned,

and intentionally did not verify about 90% contribution

by the technology providers to do favour to the accused,

and hence liable to be punished for the offences

punishable under Sections 166 , 167 , 418 , 420 , 465 , 468 , 471 , 477A, 409 , 201 , 109 read with 120B read with

34 of the Indian Penal Code , 1860 (for short, ' IPC ') and

12, 13 (2) read with 13 (1) (c) & (d) of the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 (for short, 'the PC Act '). 4. Heard the learned senior counsel Sri Harish Salve

and Sri Siddharth Luthra appearing on behalf of Sri

Ginjupalli Subba Rao, learned counsel for the petitioner

and Sri Mukul Rohatgi and Sri Ranjit Kumar, learned

senior counsel appearing on behalf of respondent-CID 15 and Sri Ponnavolu Sudhakar Reddy, learned Additional

Advocate General. 5. The learned senior counsel Sri Harish Salve

appearing on behalf of the petitioner submitted that the

FIR was registered on 09.12.2021 whereas the petitioner

is added as A.37 in the said case on 07.09.2023.

Amongst other grounds raised in the petition, the

learned senior counsel contended Section 17A of the PC

Act has not been complied with. According to the

learned senior counsel, no permission as contemplated

under the said provision, has been obtained from the

competent authority. It is his further submission that

implication of the petitioner in the present case is

nothing but a 'regime revenge investigation'. He further

contended that instrumentality of the State is being

weaponised for using the force of criminal law and it is a

clear abuse of process of law. The learned senior counsel further submitted that

even if the entire accusations are accepted as true, no 16 prima facie case for the aforesaid offences that are

alleged as against the petitioner. In support of his contentions, he placed reliance

on a decision in Yeshwant Sinha v. CBI1 ; and Arnab

Manoranjan Goswami v. State of Maharashtra & others2

and in State of Punjab v. Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar &

others3. 6. The learned senior counsel Sri Siddharth Luthra

supplemented the arguments of the learned senior

counsel Sri Harish Salve. He lucidly explained Section

17A of the PC Act and stated that the aforesaid Section

renders a candid clarification that no police officer

should conduct an enquiry or inquiry or investigation in

any offence alleged to have been committed by a public

servant under the PC Act , without the prior approval, if

the alleged offences relate to any recommendations made

or decision taken by public servant in discharge of

official functions or duties. He placed reliance on the

1 (2020) 2 SCC 338
2 (2021) 2 SCC 427
3 (2011) 14 SCC 770 17 decision of the Karnataka High Court dated 04.07.2023

in Criminal Petition No.531 of 2022, wherein the

Karnataka High Court relied on the decision of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in Yeshwant Sinha 's case. He also

relied on the following decisions. (a) In Ms. Mayawati v. Union of India & others4; (b) In Yogesh Nayyar and another v. State of

Madhya Pradesh5 ; (c) Order dated 04.07.2023 passed by the

Karnataka High Court in Criminal Petition No.531 of

2022. 7. On the other hand, the learned senior counsel Sri

Mukul Rohatgi appearing for respondent-CID contends

that the impugned proceedings cannot be quashed since

investigation is at nascent stage. The learned senior

counsel contended that a huge scam has been unearthed

and FIR was registered on 09.12.2021, and during the

course of investigation, petitioner has been added as

4 (2012) 8 SCC 106
5 2023 SCC OnLine MP 2049 18 A.37 on 07.09.2023. Pursuant to the arrest of the

petitioner on 09.09.2023, the present Criminal Petition

came to be filed on 12.09.2023. The learned senior counsel contended that Section

17A of the PC Act is not a bar for the police to conduct

investigation for the reason that the petitioner herein,

being the Head of the Executive Government, was

involved in a calculated and deliberate scam, by virtue of

which about Rs.370.00 crores of public money of state

exchequer has been misappropriated. The learned senior counsel relied on decisions in Gogineni Ramanjaneyulu v. State of Andhra Pradesh6 , State of Rajasthan v. Tejmal Choudhary7 , State of

Telangana v. Managipet @ Mangipet Sarveshwar Reddy,8 and Dr. A.Ganapathi v. State 9(Madras High Court). The learned senior counsel further contends that

there is no need for prior sanction as contemplated

under Section 17A of the PC Act for investigation of the

6 2023 SCC OnLine AP 467
7 2021 SCC OnLine SC 3477
8 (2019) 19 SCC 87
9 2022 SCC OnLine Mad 5378 19 offences occurred prior to 26.07.2018. The learned

senior counsel also relied on a decision in Shambhu Nath

Mishra v. State of Uttar Pradesh10 and in State of Uttar

Pradesh v. Paras Nath Singh11 . Placing reliance on the decisions in Neeharika

Infrastructure Private Limited v. State of Maharashtra &

others12 and State v. M.Maridoss and another13, the

learned senior counsel contended that reliability or

genuineness of the allegations cannot be debated at

nascent stage. The learned senior counsel contends that

it is not permissible to test the veracity of the statements

or scrutinize the voluminous material filed by the

petitioner to quash the proceedings, and there are

serious allegations as against the petitioner. 8. The learned senior counsel Sri Ranjit Kumar

supplemented the arguments submitted by the learned

senior counsel Sri Mukul Mukul Rohatgi. The learned

10 (1997) 5 SCC 326
11 (2009) 6 SCC 372
12 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315
13 (2023) 4 SCC 338 20 senior counsel Ranjit Kumar has taken this Court to

various documents to show that the entire transactions

are not transparent. He further submitted that there is

any amount of variance as per the contents mentioned in

the MoA and the G.O. No.4, which has been issued

subsequently. He relied upon the following judgments. (a) In P.V.Jagannath Rao & others v. State of Orissa & others14; (b) In Krishna Ballabh Sahay & others v. Commission of Inquiry & others15; (c) In Ramveer Upadhyay & another v. State of U.P. & another16; (d) in State of Chattisgarh v. Aman Kumar Singh17; (e) in Jitendra Kumar v. State of Orissa18 . 9. On the other hand, learned Additional Advocate

General Sri Ponnavolu Sudhakar Reddy submits that

14 AIR 1969 SC 215
15 AIR 1969 SC 258
16 2022 SCC OnLine SC 484
17 (2023) 6 SCC 559
18 (2008) 2 SCC 161. with regard to the allegations of corruption against the

officials of APSSDC, the Director General of Anti

Corruption Bureau, A.P., Vijayawada, vide Memorandum

vide Rc.No.10/RE-CIU/2018, dated 05.06.2018, directed

to conduct a regular enquiry into the contents of letter of

petition and submit a RE report, by referring to a letter

of CBI vide letter No.122 2017(CE-117/2017) CBI/Pune/

3865, dated 27.10.2017 in the reference therein.

According to the learned Additional Advocate General, an

enquiry has commenced much prior to the insertion of Section 17A of the PC Act. According to him, in such

circumstances, there is no bar on the police to conduct

investigation. According to him, any statute that has

been incorporated would be prospective in nature. He

relied on a Kerala High Court decision in Shankara Bhat

v. State of Kerala19 . The learned Additional Advocate General submits

that the aforesaid decision was carried to the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India by way of Special Leave to

19 2021 SCC OnLine Ker 3427 22 Appeal (Crl.) No.9341 of 2021, and the same was

dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. 10. Section 17A of the PC Act reads as follows: 11. The object of the Act is to protect honest public

servants from facing enquiry or litigations, where they

carry on, to take strenuous efforts in implementation of

the schemes and proceed with undaunted decisions. 24 12. A plain reading of the aforesaid provision goes to

show that a police officer is prohibited from conducting

enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any offence

alleged to have been committed by a public servant

under the said Act without the previous approval of the

competent authority. It is further stated that the bar

applies only when the offence alleged committed by the

public servant relates to any recommendation made or

decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his

official functions or duties. The competent authority to

grant previous approval is the Central Government, in

case of an employee in connection with the affairs of the

Union, or the State Government, in case of an employee

in connection with the affairs of the State. Previous

sanction envisaged under Section 17A of the Act does

not apply to cases involving arrest of a person on the

spot on the charge of accepting or attempting to accept

any undue advantage for himself or for any other person. 25 13. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

petitioner, by relying the decision in Yeshwant Sinha v.

CBI (1 supra), contended that the observations made

therein by a Full Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court gave a

quietus as to application of Section 17A of the PC Act.

The Hon'ble Apex Court held in paragraph Nos.117 to

119 of the said judgment as under: 118. Therefore, the petitioners have filed the
complaint fully knowing that Section 17-A constituted a bar to any inquiry or enquiry or
investigation unless there was previous approval. In
fact, a request is made to at least take the first step
of seeking permission under Section 17-A of the
2018 Act. Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018
was filed on 24-10-2018 and the complaint is based
on non-registration of the FIR. There is no challenge
to Section 17-A . Under the law, as it stood, both on
the date of filing the petition and even as of today, Section 17-A continues to be on the statute book
and it constitutes a bar to any inquiry or enquiry or
investigation. The petitioners themselves, in the
complaint, request to seek approval in terms of Section 17-A but when it comes to the relief sought
in the writ petition, there was no relief claimed in
this behalf. 119. Even proceeding on the basis that on
petitioners' complaint, an FIR must be registered as
it purports to disclose cognizable offences and the
Court must so direct, will it not be a futile exercise
having regard to Section 17-A . I am, therefore, of the
view that though otherwise the petitioners in Writ
Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018 may have made 27 out a case, having regard to the law actually laid
 down in Lalita Kumari [Lalita Kumari v. State of U.P. ,
 (2014) 2 SCC 1 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 524] , and more
 importantly, Section 17-A of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act, in a review petition, the petitioners
 cannot succeed. However, it is my view that the
 judgment sought to be reviewed, would not stand in
 the way of the first respondent in Writ Petition
 (Criminal) No. 298 of 2018 from taking action on
 Ext. P-1, complaint in accordance with law and
 subject to first respondent obtaining previous
 approval under Section 17-A of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act." 14. In Yogesh Nayyar and another v. State of Madhya

Pradesh (5 supra), it is held thus: (paragraphs 6, 6.1, 6.2

and 9)

 "6. A bare perusal of Section 17-A reveals that prior
 to insertion of said provision in PC Act , the only
 provision giving protection of prior sanction to
 prosecution was Section 19 which is applicable at
 the stage of taking cognizance of offence, but not
 from any prior date. On 26.07.2018, the Prevention
 of Corruption Act, 1988 (Amended Act, 2018) under
 went wide spread amendments including the
 insertion of Section 17-A which gave an added
 umbrella of protection to the public servant at the
 stage of enquiry/inquiry/investigation. The police
 officer was prohibited from conducting
 enquiry/inquiry/investigation into any offence
 alleged under the PC Act when allegations related to 28 recommendation made or decision taken are as
 follows: It is a cardinal principle of construction that
 every statute is prospective, unless it is expressly or 30 by necessary implication made to have retrospective
operation. There is a presumption against
retrospectivity. An express provision should
ordinarily be made to make a statute retrospective.
The presumption against retrospectivity may also be
rebutted by necessary implication as held by this
Court in Akram Ansariv. Chief Election Officer
reported in (2008) 2 SCC 95, which has been
referred to and relied upon by the Kerala High Court
in its judgment in K.R.Ramesh v. Central Bureau of
Investigation reported in 2020 SCC OnLine Ker
2529. The device of a legal fiction can also be used
to introduce retrospective operation. Generally, it is
considered that every statute dealing with
substantive rights is prima facie prospective unless it
is expressly or by necessary implication made
retrospective. In T.N.Bettaswamaiah v. State of Karnataka being
W.P.No.29176/2019 (GM-RES), decided on
20.12.2019, which is reported in 2019 SCC OnLine
Kar 3564, the Karnataka High Court referred to the
judgment of this Court in Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v.
State of Maharashtra reported in (1994) 4 SCC 602,
and rightly held: "21... But in Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of
 Maharashtra , (1994) 4 SCC 602, it is held that a 31 statute which not only changes the procedure but
 also creates new rights and liabilities shall be
 construed to be prospective in operation unless
 otherwise provided either expressly or by necessary
 implication. A careful reading of both Section 17A as also Section 19 do not contain any express
 provision to show that they are retrospective in
 nature nor it is so discernable by implication. 22. In Dr.Subramanian Swamy v. Dr.Manmohan
 Singh , (2012)3 SCC 64, it is held that any anti-
 corruption law has to be interpreted in such a
 fashion as to strengthen fight against corruption
 and where two constructions are eminently
 reasonable, the Court has to accept the one that
 seeks to eradicate corruption than the one which
 seeks to perpetuate it." 9. Reference may also be made to the judgment of
this Court in GJ Raja v. Tejraj Surana reported in
(2019) 19 SCC 469, cited by Mr.Saurav Roy, learned
counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, where
this Court followed the judgment of this court in Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) and held that a
statute which affect substantive rights is presumed
to be prospective in operation unless made
retrospective and unless textually impossible a
statute which merely affects procedure is presumed
to be retrospective. However, a statute which not 32 only changes the procedure but also creates new
 rights or liabilities is to be construed to be
 prospective in operation, unless otherwise provided
 either expressly or by necessary implication. (See State of Rajasthan v. Tejmal Choudhary ) 16. In Pilli Sambasiva Rao v. State of Telangana , the

Telangana High Court held that the Prevention of

Corruption (Amendment) Act 16 of 2018, including

amended Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988, does not apply

retrospectively. There is no duty cast upon the

authorities to obtain sanction to prosecute an employee

not in service for prosecution for the offences under the PC Act, 1988 which were committed before the coming

into force of 2018 Amended Act . It is pertinent to

mention here that in the case on hand, a regular enquiry

was already ordered on 05.06.2018 with regard to the

allegations of corruption against the officials of APSSDC,

by the Director General of Anti Corruption Bureau, A.P.,

Vijayawada, by referring to a letter of CBI vide letter

No.122 2017(CE-117/2017) CBI/Pune/ 3865, dated 33 27.10.2017 in the reference therein, which is much prior

to insertion of the aforesaid provision. Accepting bribe or making attempt to obtain
 bribe cannot be considered as an act done by the
 petitioners in discharge of their official functions or
 duties. Though the offence allegedly committed by
 the petitioners was in relation to appointment of
 staff in the Bank, accepting bribe or making demand
 for bribe for such appointment, cannot be
 considered as an act which is directly related to any
 decision or recommendation made by the petitioners
 in discharge of their official duties or functions. The
 act, which constitutes the offence under the Act,
 which was allegedly committed by the petitioners,
 had no reasonable connection with their official
 functions or duties. Therefore, Section 17A of the
 Act has no application to the facts of the case.
 The discussion above leads to the following
 conclusions. The bar under Section 17A of the Act
 with regard to conducting enquiry/investigation
 operates against the police officer or the
 investigating agency concerned and it does not
 create any fetter on the power of a constitutional
 court to order preliminary enquiry or investigation
 into an offence under the Act. Once a constitutional
 court examines and satisfies itself about the 34 necessity or desirability of an enquiry or
 investigation into an offence under the Act and
 passes an order to conduct enquiry or investigation,
 the police officer concerned is not obliged to obtain
 previous approval of the competent authority, as
 envisaged under Section 17A of the Act, to conduct
 such enquiry or investigation. (See Venugopal V. & others v. State of Kerala) 17. Viewed from any angle, Section 17A of the PC Act

would not be applicable to all the cases which occurred

before 26.07.2018. Section 17A will be attracted only if

the offence is allegedly committed only by a public

servant in discharge of his official duties. This means

that if the acts constituting the offence do not relate to

any recommendation made or decision taken by a public

servant, Section 17A is not applicable. If the

recommendation made or decision taken by the public

servant is not in discharge of his official functions or

duties, even then, the aforesaid provision is not

attracted. The reason for bringing forth the bill leading

to Amendment Act 16 of 2018, it has been stated that 35 Section 6A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act,

1946 contains a protection for prior approval of the

Central Government in respect of officers working at

policy making levels in the Central Government before

any inquiry or investigation is conducted against them

by the Delhi Special Police Establishment. The basic

principle behind the protection under Section 19 of the

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Section 6A of the

Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 being the

same viz. protection of honest civil servants from

harassment by way of investigation or prosecution for

things done in bona fide performance of public duty, it is

felt that the protection under both these provisions

should be available to public servants even after they

cease to be public servants or after they cease to hold

sensitive policy level position as the case may be.

Therefore, Section 6A of the Delhi Special Police

Establishment Act, 1946 was amended extending the

protection of prior approval of the Central Government

before conducting any inquiry or investigation in respect 36 of the offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988 by the civil servants holding such senior policy

level positions even after they cease to hold such

positions due to reversion, retirement or other reasons. In Dr.Subramanian Swamy v. Director, CBI reported in

AIR 2014 SC 2140, a five Judge Bench of the Hon'ble

Apex Court struck down Section 6 A (1) of the Delhi

Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 as being violative

of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Now, it has to

be seen as to whether Section 17A of the PC Act (which

is specter of the exterminated Section 6A) will survive the

test of speedy trial emanating from Article 21 of the

Constitution of India. The above objective of the

Parliament in extending protection in the form of

previous approval of the Government to honest officers at

the decision making level even before the commencement

of investigation, has been imbibed by Courts while

attempting to resolve disputes regarding the applicability

of Section 17A of the PC Act. The object of Section 17A of the Act is to protect
 public servants from malicious, vexatious and
 baseless prosecution. It cannot be construed as a
 protective shield for corrupt public servants. A
 public servant cannot be left to be under constant
 apprehension that bona fide decisions taken by him
 would be open to enquiry, inquiry or investigation on
 the basis of frivolous and false complaints made
 against him. If every decision taken by a public
 servant is viewed with suspicion, the public
 administration will come to a grinding halt at the
 persons responsible for taking decisions would lose
 their enthusiasm. Section 17A of the At intends to
 avoid such a situation." (See Jayaprakash, J. v. State of Kerala ) 18. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of CID

Sri Mukul Rohatgi made a scathing attack stating that

any accusations of creating or fabricating false records

and misappropriation of public funds in furtherance of

discharge of the official duties of a public servant, the

protection under Section 17A of the Act would not be

applicable. He placed reliance on the judgment in 38 Shambhoo Nath Misra v. State of U.P. & others20, wherein

the Hon'ble Apex Court held thus: (paragraphs 4 and 5). When the public servant is alleged to have

committed the offence of fabrication of record or

misappropriation of public fund, etc., it cannot be said

that he acted in discharge of his official duties because it

is not the official duty of the public servant to fabricate

the false records and misappropriate the public funds

etc. in furtherance of or in the discharge of his official

duties. The official capacity only enables him to

fabricate the record or misappropriate the public fund, 40 etc.. It does not mean that it is integrally connected or

inseparably interlinked with the crime committed in the

course of the same transaction. By virtue of the aforesaid rulings, the legislative

intent in its enactment of Section 17A of the PC Act is

only protect public servants in bona fide discharge of

official functions or duties. However, when the act of the

public servant is ex facie criminal or constitutes an

offence, prior approval would not be necessary. 19. In State of UP v. Paras Singh (2009) 6 SCC 372, the

question that arose was whether sanction was required

for prosecution of a public servant charged with Sections

409 and 468 IPC. It was held that the use of expression

'official duty' implies that act or omission must have

been done by the public servant in the course of his

service and that it should have been in discharge of his

duties. There must be a reasonable connection

between the act and the discharge of the official duty.

The act must bear such relation to duty that the accused 41 could lay a reasonable claim but not a pretended or

fanciful claim that he did it in the course of performance

of his duty. In the aforesaid decision, there is a clear

division between those acts which constitute an offence

and those acts though done while discharging the official

duties of the public servant, do not ipso facto constitute

an act done or purported to be done in discharge of his

official duties, as contemplated under Section 197 (1) CrPC. The law laid down seems to be consistent that if

a criminal offence is committed by a public servant,

which is unconnected with his duty, sanction under Section 197 CrPC was not required, since it undoubtedly

does not form part of his official duty or purported to be

done, in discharge of his official duty. No doubt, Section 197 CrPC and Section 17A of the PC Act operate

in two different fields and in distinct situations.

Apparently, it has nothing in common at all. However,

consistent principle laid down by the decisions referred

to supra, in relation to any offence committed by a public

servant while 'acting or purporting to act in discharge of 42 his official duty' can be profitably adverted to answer the

legal issue involved in relation to Section 17A of the PC

Act. The decisions referred to, supra are based on the

principle that the commission of crimes by a public

servant which had no connection with his official duty,

cannot be considered as one within the scope of Section

197 CrPC. Extending the principle to Section 17A of

the PC Act, it can be said that offences like

misappropriation, falsification of accounts, cheating,

criminal breach of trust, receiving bribes, etc. are beyond

the scope of the provision. The Law Commission of India in its 254th report had

referred to the scope of section 17A(1) of the Prevention

of Corruption Amendment Bill dated 2013. After referring

to the proposed Section 17 A(1), the Law Commission in

Chapter VII, at para 7.1.2., opined that the proposed section 17A(1) introduced a limited requirement of

previous approval to prosecute persons, who are or were

alleged to have been public servants at the time of the

alleged offence. It was held that this was in line with the 43 provisions of Section 197 Cr.P.C. and the scheme of Section 14 of the Lokpal Act. It was opined that the

proviso to proposed to section 17 A(1) was similar to

Clause 2 of the repealed section 6A of the Delhi Special

Police Establishment Act, 1946, which provided that in

certain factual scenario, no sanction previous approval

would be necessary. However, the proviso to the

proposed section 17A(1) was narrower than section 6A of

the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, requiring

that even if a person is caught on the spot while

accepting illegal gratification., it would have to be shown

by the prosecution that it was intended that such

acceptance was consequential to a relevant public

function or activity being performed. In the proviso to the proposed section 17A(1) , it was

provided that the taking of bribe must have been with

the intention that a relevant public function or activities

shall be performed improperly, either by himself or by

another public servant. It was held by the law

commission that the above provision imposed a duty on 44 the prosecution not only to show that the bribe or illegal

remuneration/consideration was obtained, that it was in

consequence of a relevant pubic function or that duty

shall be performed improperly, either by himself or any

public servant. Hence, it was suggested that the above

part in the proviso shall be omitted. Except that, no

other suggestion was made by the Law Commission, in

relation to Section 17A . The above report does not throw

any light as to the scope and ambit of Section 17A of PC

Act, except that it was in line with Section 197 Cr.P.C. 20. Prior approval under Section 17A was required only

where the alleged offence was relatable to "any

recommendation made or decision taken by the public

servant". This seems to be the heart and soul of the

above section. It is clear that the Parliament has

consciously used the above words. If the intention of the

Parliament was to impose a pre-condition that every

enquiry, inquiry or investigation into every allegation of

offence against a public servant required prior sanction,

the words "where the alleged offence is relatable to any 45 recommendation made or decision taken by the public

servant" ought not have been there. If the above words

are omitted, it would have meant that no police officer

shall conduct any enquiry or inqury or investigation into

any offence alleged to have been committed by a public

servant under this Act in discharge of his official

function or duties without the previous approval of the

competent authority. By virtue of the above, it is clear

that the intention of the Parliament was not to insist for

previous approval in relation to enquiry, inquiry or

investigation only in relation to every offence committed

by the public servant. 21. The Delhi High Court in Devendra Kumar v. CBI

(W.P. (Criminal) No. 3247/2018 and connected matters),

dealt with the scope of Section of the 17 A PC Act . The

complainant alleged that he was being harassed by the

investigating officer and that the investigation officer

demanded huge amount from him for not charging a

case against him. On the question whether the 46 prosecution of the police officer required sanction, it was

held by the Delhi High Court that the alleged promise to

the complainant to ultimately give him relief cannot be

said to be one done in discharge of the official function or

duties of the public servant. It was held that the bar to

enquiry or inquiry or investigation under Section 17A of

the PC Act is apropos such alleged offence as may be

relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken

by a public servant in discharge of his official function or

duties. In the present case, there was no

recommendation or decision on record by public servant

in discharge of his official functions. It was only such

acts done in discharge of the official functions that would

have become the subject matter for seeking approval of

the employer. It was held that a public servant cannot

possibly be left to be under constant apprehension that

bona fide decisions taken by him would be open to

enquiry, inquiry or investigation on the complaint of a

stranger. Section 17A , as it reads, and the legislative

intent can only be to protect a public servant in the bona 47 fide discharge of official functions or duties. However,

when the act of a public servant is ex facie criminal or

constitutes an offence, prior approval of the Government

would not be necessary, it was held. 22. Section 17A of the PC Act cannot be made

applicable in those cases where the act of the public

servant that amounts to an offence appears on the face

of it lacking in good faith. Issuing public building license

and no objection certificates cannot be said to be acts

done in good faith. Where the performance of public

function is grossly improper, the safe conclusion at least

at the initial stage can be that it was in anticipation for

in consequence of accepting an undue advantage from

the beneficiary. Use or utilization of public funds by a

public servant under the colour of authority but really

for his own benefit cannot be considered as an act done

in discharge of his official functions or duties. Such an

act is not entitled to get the protection under Section 17A of the Act. 23. Tested on the touchstone of the principles

mentioned above, the decision taken or recommendation

made by petitioner to grant sanction for payment of

money on the basis of the documents and committing

misappropriation of amount cannot be considered as

acts done by him in discharge of his official duties or

functions. Therefore, no prior approval from the

competent authority was necessary for investigation into

the offences alleged. 24. It is pertinent to mention here that a preliminary

enquiry is mandatory before registering an FIR as laid

down in Lalita Kumari v. Government of U.P.21 The issue

before the Hon'ble Apex Court was whether a police

officer is bound to register FIR upon receiving an

information relating to commission of a cognizable

offence under Section 154 CrPC or whether the police

officer has power to conduct a preliminary enquiry in

order to test veracity of such information, before

21 (2014) 1 SCC (Cri.) 524 49 registration of FIR. It is answered by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in the aforesaid decision that a police officer need

not conduct a preliminary enquiry and he can register an

FIR when once information discloses commission of a

cognizable offence. However, the Hon'ble Apex Court is

cognizant of the possible misuse of power in criminal law

resulting in registration of frivolous FIR, thereby the

Hon'ble Apex Court formulated certain exceptions to the

general rule. Exceptions
 "115. Although, we, in unequivocal terms, hold that
 Section 154 of the Code postulates the mandatory
 registration of FIRs on receipt of all cognizable
 offences, yet, there may be instances where
 preliminary inquiry may be required owing to the
 change in genesis and novelty of crimes with the
 passage of time. One such instance is in the case of
 allegations relating to medical negligence on the part
 of doctors. It will be unfair and inequitable to
 prosecute a medical professional only on the basis
 of the allegations in the complaint. 117. In the context of offences relating to
 corruption, this Court in P. Sirajuddin [P.
 Sirajuddin v. State of Madras , (1970) 1 SCC 595 : But, if the information given clearly mentions the
 commission of a cognizable offence, there is no other
 option but to register an FIR forthwith. Other
 considerations are not relevant at the stage of
 registration of FIR, such as, whether the information
 is falsely given, whether the information is genuine,
 whether the information is credible, etc. These are
 the issues that have to be verified during the
 investigation of the FIR. At the stage of registration
 of FIR, what is to be seen is merely whether the
 information given ex facie discloses the commission
 of a cognizable offence. If, after investigation, the
 information given is found to be false, there is
 always an option to prosecute the complainant for
 filing a false FIR." The conclusions that were formulated in the said

judgment are as under: .. 120.5: The scope of preliminary inquiry is not to
 verify the veracity or otherwise of the information
 received but only to ascertain whether the
 information reveals any cognizable offence.

 12.06: As to what type and in which cases
 preliminary inquiry is to be conducted will depend
 on the facts and circumstances of each case. The
 category of cases in which preliminary inquiry may
 be made as under: 25. It is held in State of Telangana v. Managipet @

Mangipet Sarveshwar Reddy,22 that in the first

information report given to police in connection with a

corruption case, in case if there are clear allegations of a

cognizable offence are made under the PC Act have not

been committed. In such a situation, it is stated that

even preliminary enquiry is unnecessary'. In those

cases, where an FIR was registered without a police

officer conducting a preliminary enquiry, it is held that

FIR is not liable to be quashed. It has been observed
22 (2019) 19 SCC 87 52 that in the present case, the FIR itself shows that the

information collected is in respect of a disproportionate

assets of accused officer; the purpose of preliminary

enquiry is to screen wholly frivolous and motivated

complaints in furtherance of acting fairly and objectively;

herein, relevant information was available with the

informant in respect of prima facie allegations disclosing

a cognizable offence; therefore, once the officer recording

the FIR is satisfied with such disclosure, he can proceed

against the accused even without conducting any inquiry

or by any other manner on the basis of the credible

information received by him, and it cannot be said that

the FIR is liable to be quashed for the reason that the

preliminary inquiry was not conducted. 26. In Central Bureau of Investigation and another v.

Thommandru Hannah Vijayalakshmi alias

T.H.Vijayalakshmi and another23, a Full Bench of the

Hon'ble Apex Court held thus: (paragraph 37)

23 2021 SCC OnLine SC 923 53 "37. The precedents of this Court and the
 provisions of the CBI Manual make it abundantly
 clear that a Preliminary Enquiry is not mandatory in
 all cases which involve allegations of corruption. The
 decision of the Constitution Bench in Lalita
 Kumari (supra) holds that if the information received
 discloses the commission of a cognizable offence at
 the outset, no Preliminary Enquiry would be
 required. It also clarified that the scope of a
 Preliminary Enquiry is not to check the veracity of
 the information received, but only to scrutinize
 whether it discloses the commission of a cognizable
 offence. Similarly, para 9.1 of the CBI Manual notes
 that a Preliminary Enquiry is required only if the
 information (whether verified or unverified) does not
 disclose the commission of a cognizable offence.
 Even when a Preliminary Enquiry is initiated, it has
 to stop as soon as the officer ascertains that enough
 material has been collected which discloses the
 commission of a cognizable offence. A similar
 conclusion has been reached by a two Judge Bench
 in Managipet (supra) as well. Hence, the proposition
 that a Preliminary Enquiry is mandatory is plainly
 contrary to law, for it is not only contrary to the
 decision of the Constitution Bench in Lalita
 Kumari (supra) but would also tear apart the
 framework created by the CBI Manual." In the aforementioned decision, the Hon'ble Apex

Court was dealing with the provisions under Section 6 of

the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. In the

aforesaid decision, it is categorically stated that the

provisions are abundantly clear that a preliminary 54 enquiry is not mandatory in all cases which involve

allegations of corruption, and the decision of the

Constitution Bench in Lalita Kumari 's case holds that if

the information received discloses commission of a

cognizable offence at the outset, no preliminary enquiry

would be required. It is also clarified that scope of a

preliminary enquiry is not to check the veracity of the

information received, but only to scrutinize whether it

discloses commission of a cognizable offence or not. It is further held that the accused has no right to

demand a preliminary enquiry and the question whether

such enquiry is required or not, will depend on facts and

circumstances of each case. It is further observed that a

'preliminary enquiry' cannot be said to be an added

requirement before registration of an FIR even in

corruption cases and that if the information received

discloses commission of a cognizable offence, police

officer can directly register a case without conducting a

preliminary enquiry. 27. In similarly placed factual situation, this Court in Kinjaapu Atchannaidu v. State of A.P.24 , held as under: On behalf of the respondent, the contention is that
 there was a vigilance enquiry preceding issuance of
 authorization under Section 17A of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act registration of FIR and that it is not
 in any manner affected. When the instances
 pointed out in this case attract cognizable offences
 leading to registration of FIR, as observed in Lalita
 Kumari case, registration in terms of Section 154 Cr.P.C. of FIR is imminent. Even otherwise, prima
 facie consideration of the material makes out that
 there was a prior effort in this respect, in the nature
 of vigilance enquiry basing on which, the complaint
 was presented, on which FIR was registered." 28. Apparently, on the factual aspect of record, the

offences that are alleged would attract cognizable offence

leading to registration of the FIR as observed in Lalita

Kumari 's case (supra). Registration in terms of Section

154 CrPC is imminent. On a reading of the material on

record goes to show that much earlier, there was an

enquiry prior to insertion of Section 17A of the PC Act,

basing on which a complaint was presented on which the

subject FIR has been registered. It should be borne in

mind that where instances representing serious

economical offences, the approach has to be different,

more particularly when the investigation is at nascent 57 stage. It is pertinent to mention here that the object of

the Act has to be taken into consideration. 29. The allegations, in brief, as against the petitioner

are that he is alleged to have conspired with the other

accused to misappropriate funds from the public

exchequer. For a project, which could be executed at a

cost of only Rs.110.00 to Rs.130.00 crores, a false façade

was created that it is worth Rs.3,300.00 crores. A work

order of Rs.371.00 crores was given on nomination basis.

Of this, at least Rs.241.00 crores was misappropriated.

The petitioner, A.6 and others, conspired together and

got the APSSDC incorporated without the due approval

of the Council of Ministers. The petitioner is alleged to

have obtained the approval of the Council of Ministers

for release of Rs.371.00 crores (10% of the cost of the

project) by projecting to them that Siemens and

Designtech would implement a training project valued at

Rs.3,300.00 crores and that 90% of the cost of the

project would be borne by the technology partners. It is 58 alleged that, the Resolution, by the Council of Ministers

and G.O.Ms.No.4, explicitly mentioned that 90%

contribution was a grant-in-aid from the technology

partners (money investment), but, within a few weeks,

A.6, the then M.D. of Siemens, started referring to it as

grant-in-kind and urged the petitioner and the Principal

Finance Secretary to release the money pertaining to

10% share of the Government. G.O.Ms.No.4 mentions

the terms on the same lines, as the above approval of the

Council of Ministers (90% and 10% share in between the

technology partners and the Government of Andhra

Pradesh). The draft of MoA which was approved on the

same note file, deliberately left out these terms and

conditions. The MoA was drafted on the lines of a work order

as it were a project of Rs.371.00 crores, being given to

Siemens and Designtech on 'nomination basis. The co-

accused screened this note file. It was possible for the

investigating agency to reconstruct the sequence through 59 other connected note files. The entire amount of

Rs.371.00 crores was released in advance. The central agencies such as D.G.G. S.T.I., Income

Tax Department, the internal investigation done by

Global Compliance Team of the Siemens and the

Forensic Audit conducted by the APSSDC, detected

subsequently that about Rs.241.00 crores were

misappropriated by using network of shell companies

and bogus invoices. The Income Tax Department had

issued a notice under Section 160 CrPC to one Pendyala

Srinivas, who worked as Personal Secretary to the

petitioner, but the said person absconded to U.S.A.

The management of Siemens India had conveyed that

A.6 is no longer associated with them. It is further

admitted by them that they did not have any scheme

contributing 90% of the cost of the project as grant-in-

aid. 30. A perusal of the record goes to show that an Audit

was conducted. Basing on the conclusions arrived at, in 60 the Audit report, there is diversion of funds to a tune of

Rs.241,78,61,508/- + payment made to M/s. ACI

through various shell companies. 31. The learned senior counsel Sri Harish Salve

appearing for the petitioner in his reply reiterated his

contention with regard to bar under Section 17A of the

PC Act and submitted that on a perusal of the entire

material on record goes to show that no offences are

made out as against the petitioner. According to the

learned senior counsel, no steps were taken to assess the

misappropriation of the APSSDC funds in the Siemens

Project. According to him, though a regular enquiry

was ordered by the ACB, nothing has been elicited

during the tenure of the petitioner as Chief Minister.

He further submits that there was a project sanction in

which CITD and six clusters have been established and

they were in operation. He further submits that the

petitioner is a former Chief Minister, aged 73 years, and

the question of petitioner fleeing away does not arise. 61 32. The learned senior counsel Sri Siddharth Luthra

appearing on behalf of the petitioner, supplementing

further, submitted that this Court granted bail to a co-

accused in the subject crime. He relied upon certain

observations made by this Court in the said Order. This

Court is of the opinion that parameters for consideration

do differ in case of a bail application to that of a petition

filed under Section 482 CrPC to quash the FIR. 33. At this stage, the learned senior counsel Sri Mukul

Rohatgi appearing for respondent-CID submits that the

petitioner has been shown as A.37 on 09.09.2023 and on

12.09.2023 the present petition has been filed to quash

the FIR. Investigation in so far as petitioner is

concerned, it is at nascent stage, and at this stage, this

Court should not interfere with the proceedings in a

petition under Section 482 CrPC. The learned senior

counsel placed reliance on the decision in Neeharika

Infrastructure Private Limited v. State of Maharashtra &

others (12 supra), wherein it is held thus: (paragraph 80) 62 "Conclusions: P.C. and/or under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India, our final conclusions are as under: 34. The learned senior counsel also relied on a decision

in State v. M.Maridoss and another (13 supra), wherein,

in similar circumstances, without giving any reasonable

time for the investigating agency to investigate into the

allegations in the FIR, the High Court quashed the

proceedings. In the aforesaid case, FIR was lodged on 65 09.12.2021, quash petition was filed on 10.12.2021 and

the High Court quashed it on 14.12.2021. He submits

that in the present case, the petitioner has been shown

as A.37 on 07.09.2023, he was arrested on 09.09.2023,

sent to judicial custody on 10.09.2023 and the quash

petition was filed on 12.09.2023. The Hon'ble Apex

Court held in State v. M.Maridoss and another (13 supra),

as under: (paragraphs 8 to 12). 10. It is also required to be noticed that in the
 present case without giving any reasonable time to
 the investigating agency to investigate the
 allegations in the FIR, the High Court has, in haste,
 quashed the criminal proceedings. The FIR came to
 be lodged on 9-12-2021, immediately, on the very
 next date, the quashing petition was filed and within 66 a period of four days i.e. 14-12-2021, the impugned
 judgment and order [ M. Maridoss v. State , 2021 SCC
 OnLine Mad 13703] has been passed and the
 criminal proceedings are quashed. 11. As per the settled position of law, it is the right
 conferred upon the investigating agency to conduct
 the investigation and reasonable time should be
 given to the investigating agency to conduct the
 investigation unless it is found that the allegations
 in the FIR do not disclose any cognizable offence at
 all or the complaint is barred by any law. 12. Under the circumstances also, the impugned
 judgment and order [ M. Maridoss v. State , 2021 SCC
 OnLine Mad 13703] passed by the High Court
 quashing and setting aside the criminal proceedings
 deserves to be quashed and set aside." 35. Since Bhajanlal's case to Neeharika Infrastructure

Private Limited v. State of Maharashtra & others , the

Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down parameters for

exercise of jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC. In the

light of the discussion as above, this Court is of the view

that none of the parameters laid down by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court for interference by this Court at this

stage has been made out. 36. Amidst the aforesaid rival submissions of both the

senior counsel, this Court is of the opinion that in 67 respect of the disputed questions of fact, a mini trial

cannot be conducted by this Court in a petition filed

under Section 482 CrPC. The investigating agency,

pursuant to the registration of the crime in the year

2021, examined as many as more than 140 witnesses

and collected documents to the tune of more than 4000.

Profligacy is such an esoteric subject, where

investigation has to be carried with utmost proficiency by

the professionals. At this stage, where the investigation

is on fulcrum of attaining finalty, this Court is not

inclined to interfere with the impugned proceedings. 37. The Criminal Petition is devoid of merit and is,

accordingly, dismissed, and the consequential reliefs

sought are dismissed. Miscellaneous Petitions, if any, pending in this

Criminal Petition, shall stand closed. ___________________________________
 JUSTICE K. SREENIVASA REDDY
22.09.2023. DRK 68 THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE K. SREENIVASA REDDY

 CRIMINAL PETITION NO.6942 OF 2023

 22.09.2023
DRK