FACTS: Contentions: Taking such action is within the power of State concerned. The Guidelines
stipulated abandoned/suspended MPLAD work shall be completed by the State
Government using their funds. The State has to fix responsibility and take action
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 2
 against the erring officials. The District Authority has to ensure that the funds
must have been utilized as sanctioned earlier to prevent duplication. No specific
order was issued after getting status report of these works. The officer also
added that Para 3(iv) of Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions
Department Memorandum No.10/2 /2008-lR dated 12th June 2008 saying that 'if
a person makes an application to a public authority for some information which
is the concern of a public authority under any State Government or the Union
Territory Administration, the Central Public information Officer (CPIO) of the
public authority receiving the application should inform the appellant that the
information may be had from the concerned State Government/UT
Administration. Application in such a case, need not be transferred to the State
Government/U T Administration. 5. Upon perusal of the records and submissions made by the parties, the
Commission directs the respondent authority to provide certified copies of letter
dated 29.08.2017 sent by the District Planning Officer with regard to status of
57 works under reference in Khatauna block of Madhubani District, free of cost
within 7 days. 6. The information sought is in fact held by the District Planning Officer of
Madhubani district, the Ministry should have collected such information work
wise, institution wise and area wise along with the names of the contractors/
supervising authority and purpose of the work, the physical details of work to be
completed, time to be taken, reasons for delay and action taken if any further
delay etc, so that it could effectively monitor the proper utilization of the funds
released by it. As the recipient of the funds and executor of works the District
administration has duty to provide all the required information regarding number
of applications received in Khatauna block, nature of work, number of
applications rejected by the MP, if any, and reasons thereof. It is not known
whether the guidelines or instructions from the Ministry compel the district nodal
authorities to maintain such details. The respondent public authority, the
Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation is releasing funds and
waiting for utilization certificates to release next instalment. But not bothered
about maintaining the information about details of progress of each and work
along with details of beneficiaries of each work. Transparency demands who,
how and when the work is being implemented, the reasons for delay, expected

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 3
 date of completion of work, etc to be on the website of the district nodal agency,
Ministry and also with the MPs. 7. In addition, National e-Governance Plan was envisaged by the present
Government and being executed by the Ministry
(MEITY)http://meity.gov.in/divisions/national-e-governance-plan, It claims: 8. The Government, thus, has infrastructure with enough web space for
transparency to accommodate MPLADS information. The Ruling BJP's official
websitedeclared under the head of "core issues, good governance, BJP's take on
good governance" at http://www.bjp.org/en/core-issues/good-governance: 9. Similarly, main opposition, the Congress Party in its manifesto in 2014
declared at page 43: 10. The Parliamentary Parties/Boards have a duty to fulfil these promises
because they are financed by Government of India in proportion to their
numbers in Loksabha. Following is strength of various political parties in
LokSabha, since 2014:BharatiyaJanata Party (BJP)-282, Indian National
Congress (INC)-44, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)-37,
All India Trinamool Congress (TMC)-34, Biju Janata Dal (BJD)-20, Shivsena
(SS)-18, Telugu Desam (TDP)-16, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS)-11,
Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP)-9, Communist Party of India
(Marxist) CPI(M)-9; Lok Jan Shakti Party-6, Nationalist Congress Party-6,
Samajwadi Party-5;Parties with 4 MPs: RashtriyaJanata Dal, Aam Aadmi
Party, ShiromaniAkali Dal, Parties with 3 members: All India United
Democratic Front, Rashtriya LokSamta Party, Jammu & Kashmir Peoples
Democratic Party. Two-Member Parties: Janata Dal (United), Apna Dal, Indian
National Lok Dal Janata Dal (Secular), Jharkhand MuktiMorcha, Indian Union
Muslim League; Single-member parties: All India N.R. Congress, Naga Peoples
Front, Pattali Makkal Katchi, Sikkim Democratic Front, SwabhimaniPaksha,
Communist Party of India, Kerala Congress (M), National Peoples Party,
Revolutionary Socialist Party, All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen; There are 3

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 5
 independents. The independents should also be made answerable. Every
political party which has more than one seat in Parliament is expected to have
Parliamentary Board/Party with all members elected, and each Parliamentary
Party needs to make arrangements to inform the voters and RTI requestors. All
those political parties having single member in Lok Sabha and independents
should evolve their own mechanisms to do so regarding MPLADS. Rs 12K crore not spent 11. The MoSIP in its recent report (August 2018) revealed that Rs 12,000 crore
of MPLADs was unspent. This agenda paper of the meeting to review the
MPLADS shows that in February 2018, funds allotted but unspent stood at Rs
4,773.13 crore while 2,920 instalments of Rs 2.5 crore were yet to be released,
resulting in a total backlog of Rs 12,073.13 crore. Drinking water, sanitation,
electricity, roads, community shelters-these are the kind of things MPs can
spend their annual Rs-5-crore fund on. They can also spend for orphan homes,
differently-abled persons, or build a class room in primary school in their
constituencies. Probing the question why they are not spending this amount,
Pronab Sen, the former chief statistician of India, said the MPs have to be more
proactive in identifying the needs of the locals.The rules of the MPLAD scheme
state that the work has to be completed within 18 months from the date of
demitting office in the case of Rajya Sabha MPs or dissolution of the Lok Sabha,
and subsequently accounts have to be closed. But the government report shows
several accounts dating back to the 14th LokSabha are yet to be
closed."Obtaining utilisation certificate for a project is at the centre of using
MPLADS. The UC gets stuck as most constituencies comprise more than one
district and it gets caught between the different district collectors" said Nishikant
Dubey, a Bharatiya Janata Party LokSabha MP. (A daily newspaper report on 30.8.2018,
https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-12-000-crore-of-mp-funds-lie-unutilised-uttar- pradesh-tops-list/story-qNsS9AZ941qeWUGm5fdqjK.html) These problems can be fixed
by making every process of the works transparency. It is reported that a
year after they took office, 298 of 542 members of the 16th (present) LokSabha
have not spent a rupee from Rs 5 crore. Following MPs have not used any
funds>

 No. Of MPs Who Haven't Used Any Funds
 States No of MPs Andhra Pradesh 10 CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 6
 No. Of MPs Who Haven't Used Any Funds
 States No of MPs Arunachal Pradesh 1 Assam 13 Bihar 25 Goa 0 Gujarat 16 Haryana 5 Himachal Pradesh 0 Jammu & Kashmir 5 Karnataka 20 Kerala 2 Madhya Pradesh 17 Maharashtra 30 Manipur 0 Meghalaya 1 Mizoram 0 Nagaland 0 Odisha 14 Punjab 4 Rajasthan 20 Sikkim 0 Tamil Nadu 11 Tripura 1 Uttar Pradesh 52 West Bengal 13 A & N Islands 1 Chandigarh 1 D & N Haveli 1 Daman & Diu 1 Delhi 2 Lakshadweep 1 Puducherry 0 Chhattisgarh 5 Uttarakhand 4 Jharkhand 12 Telangana 10 Total 298 Source: MPLADS 12. Since the constitution of the 16th Lok Sabha in May 2014, the government
has released Rs 1,757 crore for MPLADs, of which Rs 281 crore has been utilised
by 543 MPs. This means only 16% of the money has been spent. As on May 15,
2015, it was reported that Rs 1,487 crore was unspent, though deposited with
various district authorities. The data shows that not a single rupee was spent in
278 constituencies (51 per cent) in 2014-15. Of these, 223 MPs did not
recommend any amount. Considering that MPs have a recommendatory role in
the scheme, it is surprising to see that 41 per cent of them haven't even
recommended any amount for their constituency. In the remaining 55
constituencies, the MP recommended works, but no money was spent by the
district authority. In all, the average amount of recommendations made was
worth Rs. 2.16 crore, while the average expenditure incurred was mere Rs. 57
lakh. 13. The Minister of Statistics and Programme Implementation asked district
authorities to be "more sensitive" and "ensure expeditious implementation" with
"probity and transparency" so that results were visible. Referring to members of
15th Lok Sabha utilising 90% of their MPLADS funds during their five-year term
between 2009 to 2014, the Minister said that it is not very satisfactory for a
scheme which has been in operation for more than two decades. It was
concluded that 55 per cent of Lok Sabha MPs of 16th Lok Sabha have spent
nothing on constituencies, in their first year. As many as 298 of 542 Lok Sabha
members have not spent a single rupee of the annual Rs 5 crore given for
constituency development (Media Report on 16.5.2015, https://www.business-
standard.com/article/specials/55-per-cent-of-lok-sabha-mps-spent-nothing-on-
constituencies-115052600134_1.html) 14. While Tamil Nadu and West Bengal are the best performing States with
average recommendations worth Rs. 3.5 crore, spent more than Rs. 1 crore per
constituency on projects, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir, Rajasthan
and Assam, on average, didn't even cross the Rs. 1 crore-mark for project
recommendations, let aside the execution.(https://www.thehindu.com/
data/how-do-mps-spend-their-funds/article10864371.ece, June 5, 2015).
Some MPs say the scheme is a godsend because it enables them to 'give'
something tangible to their constituents. 15. A look at latest statistics reveals the truth. The details of the works (names,
location, beneficiaries, payments etc) in each constituency and as per the MP are

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 9
 not available. Out of total fund entitlement of Rs 2725 crore (Lok Sabha) only Rs
1412.5 crore was released by Government and out of Rs 1225 Crore (Rajya
Sabha) only Rs 594 crore was released. The statistical details are given by
official MPADS website: 16. These 'figures' do not reveal the actual details of works. Ground realities are
hidden behind lifeless statistics. None can understand what works were taken up
and what assets were created. Such a deliberate ambiguity is a kind of malicious
denial of information. Four MPs suspended in MPLADS 17. A TV channel during December 2005, a sting operation (called Operation
Chakravyuh) by an organization called, Star News Detective Intelligence Guild
exposed four MPs involved in corruption in allotting work for the MPLADS. Media
organization alleged that MPs belonged to Congress, BJP, Samajvadi Party and
another supported by it were caught on camera negotiating bribes and
commissions for recommending works. (https://www.outlookindia.com/newswire/story/sting-operation-exposes-mps-in-
mplad-project-selection/342971) In March 2006, a seven member Parliamentary
Committee headed by Shri V Kishore Chandra S Deo recommended suspension
of four members for improper conduct. Though Committee felt the need to
handed out appropriate punishment, they need not be expelled from House as
actual bribing was not shown. The Committee recommended that the
government suitably revise guidelines governing MPLADs, with a view to
plugging various loopholes and lacunae. It also asked the government to initiate
steps for laying guidelines and norms for sting operators. The Committee
suggested that non-governmental organisations and private institutions be
barred from getting any funds under MPLADS as most of such NGOs are 'merely
facades for unscrupulous organisations formed to usurp funds' from MPLADS,
which are meant for community development works. (http://www.rediff.com/news/report/sting/20060314.htm PTI report dated March 14, 2006) "The
report of the Committee raises a few pertinent issues. To begin with, there is a
divergence between the punishment recommended for the Lok Sabha MPs and
that for the two Rajya Sabha MPs, who were also exposed in the MPLADS sting. CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 11 18. The Rajya Sabha Ethics Committee that probed the charges against them
had recommended the expulsion of one MP and given the benefit of doubt to the
other. ... The Lok Sabha Committee has recommended that the Government
revise the guidelines governing MPLADS under which MPs may recommend
"works" for "public use" up to Rs.2 crore per annum with a view to plugging
loopholes. In this connection, it has suggested that NGOs and private institutions
be barred from receiving any funds under the scheme. The submission misses
the central point about MPLADS. The scheme has not been subverted by
"unscrupulous" private organisations or suffered because of the existence of
some legal lacunae. It has failed because it is inherently wasteful (having
consumed more than Rs.14,000 crore cumulatively since its inception in 1993);
because it "treads into areas of local government institutions" (as the National
Commission to Review the Working of the Constitution has pointed out); and
because it is tailor-made for misuse by those who occupy the legislative bodies
in the country. The fact that MPLADS has been a study in abuse was clearly
highlighted by two reports of the Comptroller and Auditor General, in 1998 and
2001, which strongly criticised the serious irregularities in the manner it was
implemented. The sting operation, which revealed the ugly face of corruption,
should have acted as a catalyst for giving the scheme a quick and unsung burial.
Instead, the Lok Sabha Committee has suggested a mere tinkering of MPLADS
and focussed its attention on issues unconnected with its agenda such as asking
the Centre to lay down guidelines and norms for those who conduct sting
operations. https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/better-abandoned-than-
revised/article3164851.ece

Lack of accountability & constitutionality 19. It was criticised that MP is a legislator and he should not also be made an
executive, with duties of spending money, which violates the constitutional
principles of separation of powers. The frauds in MPLADS were exposed to
buttress this argument. The Common Cause, NGO and Jammu and Kashmir
National Panthers Party challenged MPLADS scheme as unconstitutional in 1999
alleging that in the absence of any guidelines, the funds allocated under the
scheme were prone to be misused by MPs, violative of Article 14 of the
Constitution (Right to Equality) as it gave totally arbitrary powers to an MP
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 12
 without there being proper checks and balances, monitoring and accountability.
NGO Lok Sevak Sangh had pointed out that the scheme gives an unfair
advantage to serving MPs over their rival candidates in elections, the powers
exercised by the MPs by virtue of MPLAD scheme results in discrimination
between various sections of society in allocation of work. The scheme had come
under judicial scrutiny after a sting operation referred above. The important
contentions of the petitioners are as follows: 20. Origin of the Scheme: Launching the scheme on 23rd December, 1993,
the then Prime Minister in Parliament, said that MPLADS was formulated for
enabling the M.P.s to identify small works of capital nature based on locally felt
needs in their constituencies. Initially, each M.P. could suggest works to the tune
of Rs. 5 lakhs. During 1994-95, it was raised to One Crore per year per MP, in
the year 1998-99, the funds of the MPLADS were increased to Rs. 2 Crores per
year for each M.P. Up to October 1994, and then raised to Rs 5 crore. The
Scheme is governed by a set of guidelines, which were first issued by the
Ministry of Rural Development in 1994, later it was transferred to MoSPI and
guidelines were revised in 1994. The Guidelines were further revised in
February, 1997, September, 1999, April, 2002 and November, 2005. Important
Guidelines are: 21. Since the introduction of MPLADS in 1993, CAG has given two Audit
Reports. (1998 and 2001). CAG in its both the reports pointed out the
innumerable irregularities and illegalities in MPLADS. As per the report of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India for the year ended March 2000, since
the inception of the scheme in 1993 till 2000, Rs. 5017.80 crores has been
released against which Rs. 3221.21 crores have been spent. During the period
from 1997-1998 to 1999-2000, the Ministry of Statistics & Programme
Implementation released Rs. 2688 crores (84.43%) of the allotted budget
provision of Rs. 3160 crores. From the inception of the scheme till the end of
March 2000, 35.80% of the total releases by the Ministry amounting to Rs.
1956.79 crores remained unspent with the District Collectors (DCs) and the
implementing agencies. Some of the other findings of the CAG report (2001)
are: The CAG in its final comment says; "In consideration of the various persistent
instances of poor administration of the scheme, involving wastages, idling of
funds, irregular and inadmissible expenditure and frauds highlighted in this and
the earlier 1998 Report of the CAG, the Central Government needs to re-
evaluate the need, manner and modality of resource transfer under the scheme
as at present." 22. Some of the instances of irregularities mentioned above are shown in terms
of Rupees (as per the CAG report 2001) in tabular form (by conducting random
audit of 241 constituencies out of 786): 2. Non-refunding of the unspent balance by the Implementing Agencies
 (Annex IV of the CAG report) 1072.26 lakhs 3. Misreporting of Financial Progress by DCs 82.06 Cr

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 15
 (Annex V of the CAG Report 2000) 4. Irregularly clubbing MPLADS funds with other schemes 321.15 lakhs
 (Annex VI of the CAG Report 2000) 5. Irregular Diversion of Funds to inadmissible purpose 1832.90 lakhs
 (Annex VII of the CAG Report 2000) 6. Execution of Inadmissible Works(Annex VIII of the CAG Report 2000) 478.30 lakhs 7. Sanction of works for Commercial & Pvt. Organisations 916.13. lakhs
 (Annex IX of the CAG report 2000) 8. Irregular Sanction of Repair and Maintenance Works 2659.05 lakhs
 (Annex X of the CAG Report 2000) 9. Purchase of Stores out of the MPLADS fund 546.19 lakhs
 (Annex XI of the CAG Report 2000) 10. Irregular sanction of Works on Pvt. Land 185.32 lakhs
 (Annex XII of the CAG Report 2000) 11. Other inadmissible works (Annex XIII of the CAG report 2000) 460.19 lakhs 12. Irregular Sanction of Loans, Grants and Donations 81.45 lakhs
 (Annex XIV of the CAG Report 2000) 23. The CAG in its report concluded: "This review covering the period 1997-
2000, was in the nature of updation of the findings of the previous review of the
Comptroller and Auditor General on the subject covering the period 1993-1997.
The findings of the present review point out of the fact that the implementation
of the scheme has become worse during the years 1997-2000 as evidenced by
the low utilisation (64.2 per cent) of the released funds and a very poor record
of completion of the works as revealed in test check according to which
percentage of completed works came down from 56.13 (as per the 1998 report)
to 39.22. In other words even the 64.2 per cent utilized expenditure has not
yielded commensurate assets. Added to this are significant percentage of
irregular and inadmissible works that were detected in test audit. If these are
reckoned, the real utilisation figures will be much lower. Overall, the audit
findings reveal failures: in operationalising the MPLADS; in meeting its stated
objectives; in conforming to the prescription of the scheme by the MPs at the
recommendation stage and by the District Officers at the execution stage; and,
last but not the least, admitted failure of the Ministry to effectively administer
and monitor the scheme. In summary, in the present form, the scheme, which is
in operation since December 1993 has hardly served its main objectives. In view
of these findings and the findings of the 1998 audit report, the Central
Government needs to have a thorough review of the present arrangements for
the implementation of the scheme. Such a review should cover the present
manner of resource transfer along with the technical and administrative
arrangements." CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 16 24. Report of Programme Evaluation Organization of the Planning
Commission, November 2001: The Audit Report 1998 stressed the need for
the evaluation on the working and the progress of implementation of the
MPLADS. Need for evaluation of the working of the Scheme was reiterated by
the Audit Report 2001. Accordingly, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme
Implementation made arrangements with the Programme Evaluation
Organization of the Planning Commission to undertake a study to evaluate the
design, implementation and impact of the schemes and to identify the areas of
weakness and strength for the improved performance of the scheme. The
Evaluation Team launched the study in April 2000 and submitted its report in
November 2001. Some of the finding of the said report as given in Era
Sezhiyan's book published by Institute of Social Science titled, 'MPLADS
Concept, Confusion, Contradictions' are reproduced herein below: "Although
the cost-estimates of a work recommended by the MP should have been worked
out at the time of sanctioning of the work, the Evaluation Team found: 25. NCRWC Report: The report of the National Commission to Review the
Working of the Constitution (2002), which was headed by former Chief Justice
M. N. Venkatachaliah, also recommended the discontinuance of the MPLAD
scheme. The Commission was of the opinion that these schemes militate
against the principle of demarcation of responsibilities between the legislative
and the executive, as they involve the legislators in the exercise of executive
powers. According to the Commission, "the MPLAD scheme is inconsistent with
the spirit of federalism and distribution of powers between the union and sates.
It also treads into the areas of local government institutions. The commission
recommends immediate discontinuance of the MPLAD scheme as being
inconsistent with the spirit of the constitution in many ways." 26. NAC recommendation: The National Advisory Council (NAC) set up by the
government in 2005 also recommended the discontinuance of MPLADS. It said,
"The MPLADS scheme is implemented through district collectors. Ideally, local
area development needs should be determined and interventions made by the
elected local governments. Therefore, MPLADS scheme should be dispensed
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 18
 with, and these funds should directly go to Panchayats and Municipalities for the
same purposes." New Guidelines worsen MPLADS 27. The Guidelines for MPLADS were revised in 2005 to take into account the
suggestions made by Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha Committees on MPLADS,
observations of CAG, Programme Evaluation Organization of the Planning
Commission and operational experience over the years. It is submitted that new
guidelines, instead of plugging the loopholes, have worsen the Scheme. Mr. Era
Sezhiyan had written another article on new guidelines, published in
Mainstream dated 15th April, 2006. Mr Era Sezhian pointed out serious lapses: However, requests from Members for works costing more than Rs. 25
 lakh were placed for consideration and approval of the MPLADS
 Committee of the House concerned. The New Guidelines remove this
 limit of Rs. 25 lakh per work. d) A member can now recommend at his discretion a work costing up to
 Rs. 1.99 crore (excluding the contingency expenses) in one lump
 sanction. e) Scheme funds are sent directly to the District head even though the
 funds are sanctioned as 'part of the Central Assistance for State Plans' f) "The funds to the Centrally sponsored schemes are normally routed
 through the State Governments and implemented through the District
 Planning Centers. The MPs, MLAs and the representatives of the
 Panchayati Raj Institutions are in the DPC. In fact, the first set of
 Guidelines of the Scheme formulated in April 1994 by the Ministry of
 Rural Development contained procedures to coordinate the works
 under the Scheme with other Centrally sponsored and central sector
 programmes operating within the District. g) However, when a new set of Guidelines were prepared in 1994
 December after transfer of the Scheme to the Ministry of Statistics and
 Programme Implementation, the procedure of involving the District
 Planning Committee and the Panchayati Raj Institutions was
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 21
 completely deleted and the recommendation of the MP was directly
 dealt by the Collector without any determination of priorities and
 coordination with other Schemes in the District. h) Many of the works to be undertaken under the Scheme are from the
 items included in the 11th and 12th Schedule for the Panchayati Raj
 Institutions i) Though the November 2005 Guidelines has removed the list of
 permissible works under the Scheme, they have still indicated the
 types of works to be undertaken under the Scheme. j) Para 2.4 of the Guidelines states: "MP may choose some works for
 creation of durable assets if national priorities namely drinking water,
 education, public health, sanitation, and roads under the Scheme." All
 these items are included in the eleventh Schedule and the Twelfth
 Schedule of the Constitution for the Panchayati Raj Institutions. 28. Report of the Second Administrative Reforms Commission, January
2007: With regard to the unconstitutionality of the MPLADS scheme, the
recommendations of the Second Administrative Reforms Commission (ARC) are
particularly relevant. The Second ARC has recommended the abolition of the
MPLADS and Members of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development Scheme
(MLALADS) because "these schemes seriously erode the notion of separation of
powers, as the legislator directly becomes the executive." The Commission
considers the exercise of discretionary powers by legislators to sanction or
approve public works clearly as an executive function, whether or not the
government appoints the legislators to a designated office. Therefore, "the use
of discretionary funds at the disposal of legislators, the power to determine
specific projects and schemes or select the beneficiaries or authorize expenditure
shall constitute discharge of executive functions and will invite disqualification
under articles 102 and 19 (of the Constitution) , irrespective of whether or not a
new office is notified or held." Era Sezhiyan's Critique 29. Mr. Era Sezhiyan, former Chairman, Public Accounts Committee of
Parliament and Senior Fellow of Institute of Social Sciences, New Delhi,
published in 'The Hindu' dated 24th April 2003. The article, apart from giving
details of irregularities and the comment on the report of CAG, also gives an
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 22
 insight how the scheme is contradictory to the constitutional provisions and the
general financial rules. The relevant extract of the article is reproduced below: 30. The petition of Common Cause pointed out several grounds how the
MPLADS was unconstitutional. a) MPLADS erodes the system of checks and balances and seriously
 undermines the Parliamentary System of Governance that was adopted by
 the Constitution of India. The cardinal premise of a parliamentary
 democracy, as also enshrined in our Constitution, is that the legislature
 legislates and gives sanctions, but it is the executive which implements
 those policies and programmes while rendering full account of its action,
 plans and programmes to the Parliament regularly. The Parliament is not
 meant to govern, but to control the government. In Ram Jawaya Kapur
 vs. State of Punjab , AIR 1955 SC 549, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has
 categorically held that "In India, as in England, the executive has to act
 subject to the control of the legislature.." Further, in Indira Nehru Gandhi
 vs. Raj Narain , (1975) Supp. SCC 1, it has been held by this Hon'ble Court
 that 'separation of power' is the basic structure of the Constitution. It is in
 this background, Era Sezhiyan's book titled, 'MPLADS Concept, Confusion,
 Contradictions' states, "The concept of the MPLAD Scheme to place certain
 annual grants at the discretion of each Member of Parliament to choose
 small works for implementation in their respective constituencies has done
 irreparable damage to role of Members of Parliament in the parliamentary
 system." By making the legislature a partner in the functioning of the
 executive, the MPLADS erodes the check, which the legislature is
 supposed to exercise over the executive. The legislature has been
 provided with the task normally done by the executive in our present form
 of Parliamentary Democracy. This overlapping of functions is clearly in
 violation of the constitutional mandate. If the Parliament, which is
 supposed to keep a check on the Executive, is entrusted with executive
 tasks, then it will not be possible for them to monitor and keep a proper
 check on the executive. This will erode the whole system of checks and
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 24
 balances and fair accountability, which will be detrimental to the progress
 and functioning of the country as a whole. b) It offends the spirit and object of 73rd and 74th Amendment of the
 Constitution which provides for local self governance. The prime object of
 the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments was to move towards
 decentralization of the governance by envisaging panchayats and
 municipalities as institutions of self government. The 11th Schedule
 ( Article 243 G) and 12th Schedule ( article 243W ) contain the list of 47
 subjects which are related to programmes and works to be done by the
 Panchayats and Municipalities. Ironically, most of the Schemes being
 funded and executed under the MPLADS are not from the Union list at all,
 instead they are part of the 11th and 12th Schedules of the Constitution.
 MPLADS is a central government grant released directly to the District
 Collector and is completely out of bounds of the Panchayati Raj
 Institutions. The allocations for MPs under the MPLADS are financed out of
 the public exchequer and divert funds which would otherwise be available
 to the local bodies. To quote from the Consultation Paper of the National
 Commission to Review the Working of the Constitution as extracted in the
 aforementioned book of Era Sezhiyan, "MPs and MLAs exercising their
 personal choice and decision in funding and executing the scheme is an
 usurpation of the power and responsibilities of the Panchayats and
 Municipalities....In many instances the choice of schemes and the amounts
 expected can significantly alter or distort local priorities as may be desired
 or decided by the Panchayats and the Municipalities. However, they may
 be helpless to rectify the situation, as their own fund may be very limited
 in comparison to what an MP or an MLA can bring as largesse." I c) It results in discrimination between the sections of societies in allocation
 of the work and hence, violation of Article 14 of the Constitution: The
 powers exercised or enjoyed by the MPs by virtue of MPLADS results in
 discrimination in allocating the work, thus resulting in violation of Article
 14 of the Constitution. The MPs under this scheme can allocate projects
 and work in any one particular area to the benefit of a particular section of
 the society and neglect other areas or sections of the society if the said
 areas or sections are not politically favourable to him. To quote from Era
 Sezhiyan's book titled, 'MPLADS Concept, Confusion, Contradictions'
 "When the MP is given full discretion and annual grants at his disposal, he
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 25
 will be eager to undertake works to satisfy the voters in his constituency.
 However, he will be inclined, more often, to give preference to the
 demands of those who are politically favourable to him or likely to be
 favourable to him and his party in the elections. The fact of discretionary
 us of the public funds for the selected voters favourable to the MP has
 been brought by the Evaluation Report if the Planning Commission: "Small
 group having easy access to the MP at times may impress upon him to
 recommend works according to their felt needs, consequently the felt
 need of many others may get overlooked." Such a scheme is therefore
 discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. d) It gives an unfair advantage to the incumbent MPs/MLAs over their rival
 candidates in elections: The scheme in the present form gives an unfair
 advantage to the incumbent candidates over their rivals, in as much as it
 gives a huge amount of discretionary funds in the hands of the incumbent
 candidates which they can use as they please. To quote from Era
 Sezhiyan's book titled, 'MPLADS Concept, Confusion, Contradictions' "The
 political bias caused by the MPLAD Scheme is obvious by the fact that the
 Lok Sabha MP has the discretion to spend Rs. 10 crore during his term of
 5 years and to gain the appreciation and support of his constituents. To
 control the use of money power in the elections, the election law has set
 limits to the election expenses at Rs. 1 crore for a candidate in LokSabah
 elections and Rs. 50 lakhs for an Assembly candidate in a state. However,
 a sitting Member in a Lok Sabha Consittuentcy for a term of five years has
 already spent Rs. 10 crore in the constituency at his discretion and in free
 choice of sites and works. This surely creates a political bias and an
 electoral advantage in favour of a sitting MP over other candidates who
 have not the benefit of any public fund spent during or before the
 election. Though, the public fund under the Scheme may not have been
 spent for the personal benefit of the Member, still it is a misuse of public
 funds not for the public purpose for which it was granted by Parliament.
 As the Law Lords observed in the Porter v Magill case, "It was a misuse of
 power not for the purpose of financial gain, but for that if electoral
 advantage. In the sense, it was corrupt." e) It is being implemented in violation of several financial rules: MPLADS is
 being implemented in violation of several financial rules, particularly, Rule
 64 of the general financial rules, which provides that any unspent amount
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 26
 is not available for utilisation in the following year and Rule 65 (1) which
 provides that the Secretary of the Ministry in charge will be responsible for
 the control of expenditure against the sanctioned grants. As apparent
 from the above, in the present scheme, the funds are non-lapsable and
 unspent funds can be used for the next financial year. In this scheme,
 normally Heads of District are responsible for the control of expenditure
 against the sanctioned grants. Moreover, if some of the MPs are not
 utilising their funds for the local development and the funds are just lying
 idle and accumulating (as they are nonlapsable) then the MPLADS is
 hardly serving its objective. 31. A five-judge Constitution Bench headed by Chief Justice K.G. Balakrishnan,
comprising Justices R.V. Raveendran, D.K. Jain, P. Sathasivam and J.M. Panchal,
on May 6, 2010 in a unanimous verdict, held that the MPLAD scheme was
Constitutionally valid". Rejecting the contention of the opponents of the scheme
that it gives an unfair advantage to the sitting MPs against their political rivals,
the bench said there is no reason to believe that the MPLADS cannot be
implemented and monitored by the district authorities. It was contended that
with MPLADS legislator becomes an executive, which is against principle of
separation of powers, but Supreme Court did not agree. The verdict of the
Supreme Court is mainly based on the point that both LokSabha and Rajya
Sabha have Standing Committees to monitor the scheme and there are various
levels of accountability for its implementation. This accountability and
answerability need to be systematized. Public Money, Private Agenda: The Use and Abuse of MPLADS 32. In practice several agencies found that there was no proper supervision by
Parliament or its committees and there was no strict adherence to guidelines or
norms. Every norm in MPLADS was altered or breached and revised norms are
not effective but defective as explained above. Mr. A. Surya Prakash, author,
columnist and distinguished fellow at the Vivekananda International Foundation,
held several important editorial positions in media organizations such as Zee
News, India Editor, Asia Times, The Pioneer. His columns appear in The Pioneer,
Dainik Jagran, Eenadu and Samyukta Karnataka. He is also the author of What
Ails Indian Parliament. He was awarded a D. Litt by Tumkur University for his
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 27
 work on parliamentary institutions, including this thesis on MPLADS. Presently
Chairman, Prasar Bharthi, Dr Surya Prakash authored a book Public Money,
Private Agenda: The Use and Abuse of MPLADS (2013) critically analysed
the scheme that currently costs the exchequer a staggering 4,000 crore per
annum, slammed it as breeding ground of corruption that violates the separation
of powers between the legislature and the executive; MPs say that the scheme
allows them to 'give' something tangible to their constituents. Author delves
deep into the processes of the scheme and brings forth many uncomfortable
facts about its functioning, exposing some worrying trends in its implementation,
highlighting gross violation of the guidelines by MPs; MPs investing these
funds in private trusts and societies created by them; recommending projects
that are prohibited; insisting on choosing the implementing agencies and
handing over the cheques to them; wanting to control payments to
contractors; and constantly resisting transparency and accountability.
The Comptroller and Auditor General examined this scheme thrice and the
government has sponsored independent surveys to assess the scheme. On each
of these occasions, the auditors and surveyors have expressed concern over
lack of supervision at the district level and gross violation of guidelines by
MPs. The book expressed scepticism in regard to the working of MPLADS. The
Lok Sabha Committee probed the MPLADS scandal. Legitimate concerns were
expressed by Era Sezhiyan and J M Lyngdoh at the available evidence about the
misuse of the scheme by many MPs and the cases of corruption. Mr. Surya
Prakash gave several examples of misuse. Some excerpts: Each of these instances constitute a betrayal of trust by the MPs who
 recommended these works and in effect amount to gross misuse of public
 funds. The response of the parliamentary committee on MPLADS to all the
 evidence that was placed before it is disturbing. It had nothing to say on
 these aspects of the NABCONS survey. Credibility of Parliamentary Committees: This raises the question as
 to whether people can rely on parliamentary committees to discipline
 members and protect public interest. If these instances do not stir the
 conscience of parliamentarians, what will? Further, if such apathy is the
 standard response of Parliament, can we continue with a scheme that puts
 so much money in the hands of MPs? No monitoring: It must also be noted that the government has not taken
 any initiative to create the administrative infrastructure to monitor the
 scheme at the district level. Instead, it has raised the fund per MP per
 year to Rs 5 crore. Since the outgo from fiscal 2011-12 will be close to Rs
 4,000 crore per annum, stricter enforcement of accountability norms
 both at the level of the MP and the district administration is an imperative.
 Side by side, Parliament will have to ensure greater vigilance to prevent
 MPLADS from becoming a moneymaking machine for unscrupulous public
 representatives. CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 30
 .... there is need to mount pressure on Parliament to ensure that MPs
 adhere to the guidelines. The Union government must have the gumption
 to withhold funds to all MPs who fail to comply with the guidelines. There
 is also need for 100 per cent transparency in the allocation of these
 funds and accountability in regard to implementation of the projects
 recommended by members. Starting point of corruption: Finally, it must be said ...there will be no
 moral sanctity for its continuance if members of Parliament do not adhere
 to the scheme's guidelines. Often, MPs tend to be rather brazen in
 violating the guidelines. It is as if they are throwing a challenge to the
 government and asking it to do whatever it can. Now that the government
 has announced a humongous increase in the annual allocation for the
 scheme, it cannot shirk the responsibility of ensuring strict compliance
 with the guidelines. As everyone knows and as successive audit reports
 establish, noncompliance with guidelines is the starting point of
 corruption. Therefore, if MPs lack the discipline to conform to the
 guidelines, MPLADS must be scrapped", Mr A Suryaprakash wrote in his
 book. Only immunity: no accountability? 33. Every scheme should have proper checks. An authority like MP who
recommends works at his own discretion should be accountable and answerable.
A wrong doer should be questioned, inquired and if proved should suffer
consequences so that public money is saved or recovered if wrongfully spent.
Whether MPs are accountable or totally immune from accountability? The
Constitution accorded them some freedom and privileges to do public good. Two
important provisions of the Constitution of India prescribe powers, privileges and
salaries of the MPs. They are: (3) In other respects, the powers, privileges and immunities of each House of
 Parliament, and of the members and the committees of each House, shall be such
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 31
 as may from time to time be defined by Parliament by law, and, until so defined,
 shall be those of that House and of its members and committees immediately
 before the coming into force of section 15 of the Constitution (Forty-fourth
 Amendment) Act, 1978. (4) The provisions of clauses (1), (2) and (3) shall apply in relation to persons
 who by virtue of this Constitution have the right to speak in, and otherwise to
 take part in the proceedings of, a House of Parliament or any committee thereof
 as they apply in relation to members of Parliament. 106. Salaries and allowances of members. -- Members of either House of
 Parliament shall be entitled to receive such salaries and allowances as may from
 time to time be determined by Parliament by law and, until provision in that
 respect is so made, allowances at such rates and upon such conditions as were
 immediately before the commencement of this Constitution applicable in the case
 of members of the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India. 34. The Freedom of Speech of MPs is much wider privilege than the
fundamental right of citizens, so that they speak truth fearlessly. In Pandit
M.S.M Sharma v. Shri Sri Krishna Sinha & Ors. , 1959 Supp. (1) SCR 806, at
856, and Special Reference No. 1 of 1964, also known as the Legislative
Privileges case, 1965 (1) SCR 413, at p. 441]. The freedom of speech that is
available to Members of Parliament under Article 105(1) is wider in amplitude
than the right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article
19(1)(a) since the freedom of speech under Article 105(1) is not subject to the
limitations contained in Article 19(2). 35. Clause (2) confers immunity in relation to proceedings in courts. It can be
divided into two parts. In the first part immunity from liability under any
proceedings in any court is conferred on a Member of Parliament in respect
of anything said or any vote given by him in Parliament or any committee
thereof. In the second part such immunity is conferred on a person in respect of
publication by or under the authority or either House of Parliament of any report,
paper, votes or proceedings. This immunity that hasbeen conferred under Clause
(2) in respect of anything said or any vote given by a Member in Parliament or
any committee thereof and in respect of publication by or under the authority of
either House of Parliament of any report, paper, votes or proceedings,
ensures that the freedom of speech that is granted under clause (1) of Article
105 is totally absolute and unfettered. [Legislative Privileges Case pp. 441, 442]. 36. This cannot extend to mean immunity from criminal liability, but this
privilege has been expanded by the Supreme Court in PV Narasimha Rao v

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 32
 CBI case [AIR 1998 SC 2120] by giving a literal interpretation to Article 105. Facts of this case are: 10th Lok Sabha (1991) Congress (I) party emerged as
the single largest party and it formed coalition government. The support of 14
members was needed to have the no-confidence motion defeated. On 28-7-
1993, the no-confidence motion was lost, 251 members having voted in support
and 265 against. MPs of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (the JMM), Janata Dal, and Ajit
Singh group (the JD, AS) voted against the no-confidence motion. Ajit Singh
abstained from voting thereon. Shri Ravindra Kumar filed a complaint alleging
that in July 1993 a criminal conspiracy was hatched pursuant to which the above
members agreed to and did receive the bribes, to vote against the no-confidence
motion. A prosecution was launched and cognizance was taken by the special
Judge Delhi. The Delhi High Court dismissed the petitions seeking to quash the
charges. The Supreme Court referred appeals to a Constitution Bench, which
considered two main issues - whether MP could claim immunity from prosecution
for bribery and whether MP a 'public servant'? Though SC agreed that MP is a
public servant, their acceptance of bribe was held to be 'immune' from
prosecution. This simply means, they can take bribes for actions in House, and
by law no action could follow! A tragedy, indeed. US case 37. The US Supreme Court adjudicated a similar case of MP's bribery with a
different conclusion unlike our Supreme Court. In U.S vs. Brewster (United
States), case, a former United States Senator was charged with solicitation and
acceptance of bribes. The district Court dismissed the indictment on the ground
that the Speech or Debate Clause of the Constitution shielded him 'from any
prosecution for alleged bribery to perform a legislative act'. The United States
filed a Direct Appeal in the Supreme Court of United States. The main issue
before it was: Whether a Member of Congress (US Parliament) may be
prosecuted under 18 U.S.C. ss 201(c)(1), 201(g), for accepting bribe in
exchange for a promise relating to an official act? US court did not favour
corrupt MP. A law scholar, Mr. Supallab Chakraborty has compared these two
significant decisions of two democratic nations in an article published on
www.lawsctopus.com. Section 9 of Representation of People's Act states that the
state shall have conclusive proof to the fact that the person dismissed on the
grounds of corruption of disloyalty and until proved the person may keep holding
his office ( Lalu Prasad @ Lalu Prasad Yadav v. State through C.B.I (A.H.D.)
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 33
 Ranchi, Jharkhand; AIR(2003)SC 3838). This is a privilege accorded to MPs and
similar elected office holders. Author says: "There is plethora of cases filed
against sitting MLAs MPs and even Indian Foreign Services for that matter
( Ratan Tata v. Union of India ; (2014) 1 SCC 93; Nira Radia group of cases
handled by a special team under CBI allegedly involved in corporate lobbying
and 2G scam spectrum broking still holds office as an officer of Indian Foreign
Services.); but none has been seen till the end. It is as if a cocoon of protection
has been built by the legislative and judicial process around these extra
privileged persons. ...the court has laconically favoured the political crowd by
wrongfully interpreting the discretionary powers entitled to them by the
constitution.The U.S. court has been bold enough to not to give the judgement
in favour of the corrupt politicians and state that the "primary responsibility for
punishing the wrongdoer rested with the Judiciary and it is the duty of the same
to delimit the scope of legislative immunity" [Tenney v. Brandhove, 341 U.S.
367 at 371; U.S. v. Brewster, 408 U.S. 501 (1972)]. The element of corruption
was not taken into consideration in the majority decision of PV Narasimha Rao
case. The reflective effect of this interpretation on the society was not taken into
consideration. 38. In the Brewster case the Supreme Court of the United States narrowed the
scope of the Speech or Debate Clause of the U.S. Constitution which provides
immunity to the Senators from certain civil and criminal suits concerning their
legislative acts. In explaining the purposes of the Speech or Debate Clause, the
US Supreme Court traced the ancestry of the Clause to the English Bill of Rights
of 1689, which they put as "the culmination of a long struggle for parliamentary
supremacy". Not all actions taken by a Member in the course of his
congressional duties are covered by the Speech or Debate Clause. As is also
aptly, pointed out by Lord Salmon in the Salmon Commission Report [Report of
the Royal Commission on Standards of Conduct in Public Life, 1976 (chaired by
Lord Salmon)] "Now this is a charter for freedom of speech in the House; it is
not a charter for corruption". The law scholar pointed out that PV Narasimha
Rao judgment blatantly took the literal interpretation of the provision 105(1)
and 105(2) rather increased the scope of immunity under it. According to article
105(2) of the Constitution of India a Member of the parliament is immune from
any proceeding against him in respect of any Vote or in respect of any speech
made by the M.P in the parliament. "According to the provisions of the
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 34
 Parliament such immunity is necessary in order to protect the integrity of the
Country. But such immunity cannot go beyond the ambit of the scope of the
article. Article 105(1) of the Constitution of India says that the freedom of
speech in Parliament is absolute and independent of Article 19. And Article
105(2) says that the Constitution of India provides Immunities of M.Ps in respect
of anything said or any vote given by him in Parliament. But these Immunities
do not allow the MPs to accept bribes and indulge into immoral practices. The
right to indulge into bribe is no where explained in the Articles of the
Constitution as it is an illegal practice". This scholar referred to two Rules of
interpretation- Golden Rule and Mischief Rule. Golden Rule is that Sec 2(c)(viii)
& 2(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Representation of the Peoples
Act, the MP comes under the term of Public Servant, thus taking of bribe by a
Public Servant under his office capacity is an illegal Act which needs to be
prosecuted.[ L.K. Advani v. CBI ; 1993 IIIAD Delhi 53, 1997 RLR 292]

Mischief Rule ignored 39. The SC in PV Narasimharao should have taken into consideration the
reason behind the statute, i.e, mischief rule. The purpose behind the immunity
of the Article is to let the M.P speak his heart out without any fear or scare of
being convicted. In order to give the MP safeguard the constitution of India
found this immunity for the MPs so that they cannot be prosecuted for anything
they say or vote in the Parliament. Though the immunity given to the members
of the Parliament under Article 105(1) and (2) has wide amplitude but the act of
bribe taking cannot be included into it. The offence of bribe taking is a big
offence and it involves the act of breaking of trust and misuse of the belief of the
people.However the court did not take into consideration any of the above and
thereby came to an absurd rationale that the alleged bribe-takers were entitled
to immunity under Art. 105(2) and as the alleged conspiracy for acceptance of
bribe was "in respect of" or having nexus with the vote against the no-
confidence motion. Mr.Ajit Singh, the MP who had abstained from voting,
however, was not to be entitled to such immunity because he didn't actually
exercise his vote. On the contrast, with respect to the bribe -givers, charges
against them of bribe giving were held to be valid and sustainable. 40. Though MP is public servant under Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , he
cannot be removed from his office. Supreme Court said that it has no power to
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 35
 remove MP from his office. The Constitution did not give power to President also
to remove an MP. Parliament alone can remove an MP. This means Parliament is
a judge in its own case, which might lead to further corruption, as MP's might
then try to appease those Members who decide their fate. The rationality of
distinction made by the Supreme Court, (PV Narasimha Rao) between bribe-
givers and bribe-takers, rendering bribe-givers susceptible to prosecution but
not bribe-takers, is absurd according to them indignation should not entitle them
to interpret the constitution narrowly. However, an apt rationale can be found in
the majority opinion in Brewster, and their verdict that the illegal conduct is
taking or agreeing to take money for a promise to act in a certain
way........acceptance of the bribe is the violation of statute, not performance of
the illegal promise. Mr Supallabh quoted Buckley J., in R v Currie, 1992:"That a
Member of Parliament against whom there is a prima facie charge of corruption
should be immune from prosecution in the courts of law is to my mind an
unacceptable proposition at the present time. I do not believe it to be the law."
(https://www.lawctopus.com/ academike/ comparative-analysis-p-v-narasimha-
rao-v-state-u-s-v-brewster/). PV Narasimharao case emphatically established
that MP, is a public servant, and enjoys unparallel privilege of immunity from
even criminal liability and that he cannot be removed either by Supreme Court
or even President of India. The MP is authority because he is a lawmaker, his
vote can change the Government, pass or defeat a legislation, alter rights and
duties of the entire people of the nation. This kind of immunity conditions
facilitated an MP to escape to other countries. Mr. Vijay Mallya was elected to
Rajya Sabha as an independent candidate with the support of MLAs various
parties like Congress, BJP and Janata Dal (U) in Karnataka Assembly twice.
Being an honourable member of RajyaSabha, he was wanted in a loan fraud
case, and he fled on 2nd March 2016 from India, facilitation of fleeying is a
controversy now. A group of 17 Indian banks were trying to recover
approximately ₹9,000 crore in loans which Mallya has allegedly routed to gain
100% or a partial stake in about 40 companies across the world. The Income
Tax Department and the Central Bureau of Investigation are investigating Mallya
for charges including financial fraud and money laundering. The 17 banks filed a
joint petition at the Supreme Court of India in March 2016 to try to prevent
Mallya from leaving the country, but the Government indicated that he had
already left. The Enforcement Directorate of India also filed a money laundering
case against him in March 2016 for allegedly sending abroad some ₹900 crore
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 36
 (US$130 million) that had been loaned to his airline. On 24 April 2016, the
Ministry of External Affairs (India) revoked Mallya's passport. An MP with such
serious allegations could have been removed from Rajya Sabha membership but
he was allowed to resign on 2 May 2016, the day before their Ethics Committee
was prepared to recommend his expulsion. There is still dearth of law to remove
and disqualify such persons from entering people's Houses again. UK: MPs responsibilities & Code of Conduct 41. Parliament of UK, in its website, has a leaflet called 'You and Your MP'
contributing to well-informed democracy, explains the role of an MP. MPs
have responsibilities to three main groups: their constituents, Parliament and
their political party. MPs' duties in Parliament include participating in debates
and voting on legislation and other matters. They may also be members of
committees examining new laws or the work of government departments. Some
have a role as a minister in government or a spokesperson in opposition. MPs
can help their constituents by advising on problems (particularly those that arise
from the work of government departments), representing the concerns of their
constituents in Parliament and acting as a figurehead for the local area. MPs
usually support their party by voting with its leadership in the House of
Commons and acting as a representative for the party in their constituency.This
leaflet says citizen can have internet access with MP, call him on given number,
or can write to them or meet the MP in constituency, if he has an office. The
links like http://findyourmp.parliament.uk/commons/l/ or
www.parliament.uk/directories/hciolists/alms.cfm, provide means of access.
They help voters with problems such as • Benefits, pensions, national insurance,
and other matters dealt with by the Department for Work and Pensions; •
Immigration and other problems dealt with by the Home Office; • Tax problems
involving the HM Revenue and Customs • Problems with the NHS; • Problems
with the Child Support Agency; • School grants and closures. 42. Unlike in India, the MPs in UK there is a Code of Conduct that helps MPs
understand their responsibilities to Parliament and the public. In addition to
guidance, the Code also requires all Members to declare outside interest, like
paid work or gifts. (House of Commons Code of Conduct Approved by the House

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 37
 of Commons on 12 March 2012, 17 March 2015 and 19 July 2018 Ordered by
the House of Commons to be printed 24 July 2018). The Code says: 43. They have a register, where members have to disclose financial interests.
For instance an MP Abbott Ms Diane (Hackney North and Stoke Newington)
disclosed: 1. Employment and earnings 9 October 2017, received £1,500 from
Avalon Television, 4A Exmoor St, London W10 6BD, for an appearance on the
Russell Howard Hour television show. Hours: 3 hrs. (Registered 07 November
2017) 8. Miscellaneous Since December 2015, a trustee of the Diane Abbott
Foundation, which works to excel and improve education. (Registered 26
October 2016). [https://www.parliament.uk/mps-lords-and-offices/standards-
and-financial-interests/parliamentary-commissioner-for-standards/registers-of-
interests/register-of-members-financial-interests/The register has 441 pages.]
In UK, the Salmon Commission has recommended:"Membership of Parliament is
a great honour and carries with it a special duty to maintain the highest
standards of probity, and this duty has almost invariably been strictly
observed.Recently the Vice-President of India, and RajyaSabha Chairman, Mr
Venkayya Naidu emphasized the need for developing a Code of Conduct for MPs.
He said: "To ensure that people do not lose faith in political processes and
institutions, there is a need for political parties to "evolve a consensus on the
code of conduct for their members, both inside the legislature and out of it".
(https://indianexpress.com/article/india/need-code-of-conduct-for-mps-mlas-says-vice-president-
venkaiah-naidu-5336575/)

Answerability of MP: CIC Bench decision 44. It is unfortunate that Division Bench of CIC failed to make MPs answerable
under RTI Act . The question whether MP a public authority under RTI Act was
considered by a bench of Ld CIC Wazahat Habibullah and Ld IC Shri

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 38
 ShaileshGandhi in Girish Chandra Mishra v Smt Sonia Gandhi , on December 10,
2009. It was contended that with the specific authorities conferred by the
Constitution each individual MP should be regarded as public authority under RTI
Act . Shri L Nageshwar Rao, then Senior Advocate in his written argument stated
that MP is an individual and not a 'body' or 'authority', which only could be
considered as 'public authority' as per definition under Section 2(h) of RTI Act.
He wrote to CIC: The term 'body' is defined by Black's Law Dictionary (6th
edition, 6th reprint 1995) as 'Used of a natural body, or of an artificial one
created by law, as a corporation.' The same is defined in P. RamanathaAiyar's
'Advanced Law Lexicon' (3rd edition 2005) as 'a number of individuals spoken of
collectively, usually associated for a common purpose, joined in a certain cause,
or united by some common tie or occupation, as, a legislative body the body of
the clergy a body corporate.' It is, therefore, evident that such elected
representatives cannot individually constitute a 'body' for the purposes of section
2 (h) of the RTI Act, though the institutions of which they are members may be
said to constitute such a 'body'. Furthermore, it is self-evident that elected
representatives cannot constitute an 'institution of self-government' within the
meaning of section 2 (h) " of the RTI Act , though in the case of elected
representatives to Panchayats, Municipal Corporations, etc they are members of
such institutions of self government. In Rajasthan State Electricity Board,
Jaipur v. Mohan Lal & Ors. (1967) 3 SCR 377 (@ page 385), a Constitution
Bench of the Supreme Court referred to the meaning of the word/ authority' as
defined in Webster's Third New International Dictionary, and observed as
under:-The meaning of the word 'authority' given in Webster's Third New
International Dictionary which can be applicable, is 'a public administrative
agency or corporation having quasi-governmental powers and authorised to
administer a revenue- producing public enterprise. This dictionary meaning of
the word 'authority' is clearly wide enough to include all bodies created by a
statute on which powers are conferred to carry out governmental or quasi-
governmental functions.' This definition of authority propounded in the Rajasthan State Electricity Board case was quoted and relied upon by Lahoti,
J.(as the learned Chief Justice then was) in his dissenting judgment (on behalf of
Raju, J. and himself) in Pradeep Kumar Biswas &Ors. V. Indian Institute of
Chemical Biology & Ors. (2002) 5 SCC 111 (Para 74). In Some Prakash
Rekhi v. Union of India & Anr. (1981) 1 SCC 449 (Para 27), it was observed
by Krishna Iyer, J. (Speaking for himself and Chinappa Reddy, J., with Pathak, J. CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 39
 delivering a separate but concurring judgment) as under: "Authority in law
belongs to the province of power: 'Authority (in administrative law) is a body
having jurisdiction in certain matters of a pubic nature.' Therefore, the 'ability
conferred upon a person by the law to alter, by his own will directed to that end,
the rights, duties, liabilities or other legal relations, either of himself or of other
persons' must be present extra to make a person an 'authority'. When the
person is 'an agent or instrument of the functions of the State' the power is
public." 45. He further argued applying the test laid down by the Supreme Court in Som
Pal Rekhi's case, viz., that there must exist the 'ability conferred upon a person
by the law to alter, by his own will directed to that end, the rights, duties,
liabilities or other legal relations, either of himself or of other persons' to make a
person an 'authority', it would appear that an elected representative would not
satisfy the tests laid down and would not constitute an 'authority'. A fortiori,
such an elected representative may not comprise an 'authority' as usually
understood in law and therefore not be covered by the said expression as used
in section 2 (h) of the RTI Act.In support of his arguments Shri L. Nageshwar
Rao has cited Venkatarama Aiyar, J. speaking for the Court in Tirath Singh vs.
Bachittar Singh & Ors. (1955) 2 SCR 457 (page 464): Shri Rao further contended: 46. There is a strong counter argument to the above contention. There are two
land mark orders of the Supreme Court that held MP is public servant and has
'office'. In A. R. Antule case (AIR 1984 SC 718), the SC said: "It is admitted
fact that all the MPs and MLAs are public servants defined u/s 21 description
12(a) of the Indian Penal Code 1860. In MP Bribery Case P.V. Narsimha Rao
vs. State (CBI etc)[AIR 1998 SC 2120]held that in the light of Articles 84
(Qualification for membership of Parliament) , 99 (Secretariat of Parliament) , 101
(Vacation of Seat) , 173 (Qualification for Membership of the State Legislature) &
190 (Vacation of Seats) , a Member of Parliament holds an office and is
required to perform public duties, thereby he is a public servant (Prevention of
Corruption Act (44 to 1988) Sec. 2(c)(viii) [B at page 2122]. It also held that
"Office" means a position to which certain duties are attached esp. a place of
trust, authority or service under the Constituted authority (per Agrawal J),
PARAS 65, 66, 67, 70 & 90. In Badri Prasad vs. President, District BoardAIR 1952 All 681, the Allahabad High Court explained the "Authority'-as -"A legal
body invested with some power. A body of persons who are not recognized by
law as a legal entity cannot be considered to be am authority within the meaning
of the word in the Constitution of India". As per Wharton Law Lexicon the
Authority means -"a right, an official or judicial command, as a legal power to
do or act given by one man to another. It may be express or implied". Sec. 186 ,
Indian Contract Act 1872 says: An authority of an agent may be express or
implied. Sec. 187 explained it further that an authority is said to be express
when it is given by words, spoken or written. An authority is said to be implied
when it is to be inferred from the circumstances of the case; and things spoken
or written, or the ordinary course of dealing, may be accounted circumstances of
the case. Halsbury's laws of England 3rd Ed. Vol. 30 Pg. 682, defined 'Public
Authority' saying - A public authority is a body not necessarily a country council,
municipal Corporation or the local body authority, which has public or statutory
duties to perform; and which performs those duties and carries out its
transactions for the benefit of the public and not for the private profit. Such an

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 41
 authority is not precluded from making a profit for the public benefit; but
commercial undertakings acting for profit and trading corporations making
profits for their corporate are not public authorities even if conducting
undertakings of public utility. 47. MPs are bound by the provisions of the Constitution of India and the
Representation of the People Act 1950 and also 1951 and its Rules, before
and after election and they are also bound by model code of conduct during
election process. The state's exchequer is burdened with the all expenses of the
MPs. MP is provided with a residence which includes an office, given a PS and
body guards, besides driver. The decision of MPs to recommend certain works
under MPLADS will provide benefits to some and deny to those whose application
for works will be denied. Article 12 'Definition- "In this part, unless the context
otherwise required, 'the state' includes the government and Parliament of India
and the government and the legislature of each of the states and all local or
other authorities within the territory of India or under the control of the
government of India." Supreme Court said in Ramana Dayaram Shetty v.
International Airport Authority of India , [AIR 1979 SC 1628, 1638
paragraphs 14-16]: "If a statutory corporation, body or other authority is an
instrumentalityor agency of Government, it would be an 'authority' and therefore
'state' within the meaning of that expression under Article 12". That the
definition of 'State' is not confined to a Government Department and the
legislature but extends to any action Administrative (Whether statutory or non-
statutory), judicial or quasi-judicial, which can be brought within the fold of
'state action' being action which vitiated dates a fundamental right. Under
mentioned decisions are very much relevant for kind consideration. The
Supreme Court in Gulam v. State of U. P. AIR 1981 SC 2198 Para 23, State of
Punjab v Raja Ram AIR 1981 SC 1694, Para 5, and Som Prakash v UOI AIR
1981 SC 212 Para 34, 37 explained that even a private body may be 'State'
( Mahabir Auto Stores v Indian Oil Corporation (1990) 3 SCC 952.) 48. Ignoring all these authorities of law the bench of two Ld. Commissioners
agreed with the argument of Shri L Nageshwar Rao and declared that MPs, MLAs
and counsellors are not public authorities. His argument and CIC's conclusion in
this case does not hold water. Shri Rao relied mostly on dictionary meanings and
interpretation of words 'body' and 'authority'. The Ld Counsel Mr Rao was right
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 42
 in saying MP is an individual and not a 'body', but it cannot be said that such a
constitutionally empowered 'office' is not 'an authority'. The membership in
Parliament is an office created by Constitution that conferred significant
'authority' to every Member of Parliament, who together in majority make law,
form and throw out government. 49. Culling out from various Judgments, Shri Rao pointed out the criterion of
'authority' as follows: the 'ability conferred upon a person by the law to alter, by
his own will directed to that end, the rights, duties, liabilities or other legal
relations, either of himself or of other persons' must be present extra to make a
person an 'authority'. When the person is 'an agent or instrument of the
functions of the State' the power is public." Then he argues that he is not.
Having elected as per delimitation, process, recognition, norms etc of Representation of People Act , as per qualifications prescribed under Constitution,
MP enjoys very substantial powers of passing law, and altering the rights and
duties of the people. MPs share the sovereign power of Parliament, they can
even form Executive Government, they can throw away a Government and elect
another. They decide the fate of 25 crores of Rupees of people's money in five
years. They are fully and directly financed by the Government. Political Executive
controls the MPs. They enjoy immunity which is almost 'absolute' as envisaged
by Constitutional provisions and expanded by literal interpretation by the
Judiciary. MP is more than an authority. Unfortunately the Two-member bench
of CIC failed to find this 'authority'. Shri Rao relied upon the 1955 Judgment of
Supreme Court, considering the fact that then the salary of MP was only Rs
8500. In 2018 the financial benefits and privileges of MPs cannot be compared to
what they had in First Lok Sabha. The CIC should have understood this
difference and absence of MPLADS in 1955. 50. Shri Rao says if MP is interpreted as public authority under RTI Act , such a
grammatical construction will lead to manifest contradiction of apparent purpose
of the enactment or to absurdity. But it is exactly reverse of it. If the MP is not
considered as public authority and based on dictionary meanings as contended
by Shri Rao, concluded that he is not answerable, it surely contradicts the basic
purpose of RTI Act , i.e., bringing transparency in democratic governance and
making public servants accountable and answerable to the people. This
Commission has no doubt that an MP, who does not spend the quota of Rs 5
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 43
 crore per annum, or rejects valid requests for allocation, should be answerable. The RTI Act imposes a very minor obligation of being accountable. "Hamara
paisa hamara hisaab" (we demand accounts for spending our money) is the
foundation of the RTI. By not extending this obligation to MP, an office created
by the Constitution and a law passed by Parliament, this interpretation results in
absurdity of giving undesirable immunity to MP from answerability. Supreme
Court says that MP is immuned from criminal prosecution though he accepted
bribes for doing official favour in Parliament, and CIC division Bench says, that
MP need not inform its voters. In a democracy, can we believe that MP has
privilege to reject works, or need not spend quota under MPLADS and also
exempted from giving reasons for the same? Is it just rule to say that MP can
take bribes to vote in Loksabha without fear of any prosecution? Shockingly it is
not a belief, but the law laid down by the Supreme Court (PV Narasimhar Rao)
read with CIC Division Bench (Girish Chandra Mishra). It is sad that the
division bench of CIC has unreasonably agreed that if we interpret otherwise it
will lead to absurdity! It is difficult to agree with this kind of propositions. This
order of the CIC, not to consider MP or MLA as 'public authority' under RTI Act ,
is per incuriam - illegal, unconstitutional and totally against the democratic
norms of transparency of elected representatives and accountability of political
parties. (A finding of per incuriam means that a previous court judgment has
failed to pay attention to relevant statutory provision or precedents.) Section 2(h) of RTI Act & Parliamentary Party 51. The MP should at least be answerable on Rs 3825 crore of MPLADS funds. It
is minimum accountability expected from elected representative of people. In
this case MP belonged to BJP party. As a member of BJP Parliamentary Board
which is ruling the nation now, he has a duty to share the information held only
by him as far as MPLADS is concerned, through Parliamentary Board. In this
context we need to examine the accountability of Parliamentary Party of ruling
BJP as public authority. As matter of law, the Parliamentary Board/Party of all
original Political Parties, should have acted as public authorities, honouring their-
own transparency commitment, by disclosing the 17 categories of information
envisaged under Section 4(1)(b) and have designated ideally, a CPIO to answer
the questions from the voters/citizens like this applicant. As the Parliamentary
Party of the ruling party BJP with majority members is at the helm of Union
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 44
 Government, like the original political party BJP, its Parliamentary Party, it also
should have to be accountable as the public authority under section 2(h) of the
RTI Act, which says: 52. The Parliamentary Party of Original Political Party having majority of
elected representatives in the House is constitutionally recognized under Tenth
Schedule [Provisions As To Disqualification On The Ground Of Defection] under Article 102(2) of the Constitution of India. Parliamentary Parties of BJP and
Congress are recognized as 'legislature party' under Paragraph 1(b) of Tenth
Schedule of the Constitution, while the party from which legislators are elected is
recognized as 'original political party' in relation to the members of the House
under Paragraph 1(c). Paragraph 2 [Disqualification on ground of defection]
says: "...a member of House will be disqualified if he has voluntarily given up his
membership of such political party, or if he votes or abstains contrary to
direction given by Political Party..." There are several such provisions which
mandate disqualification in the context of members vis-a-vis their relationship
with original political party, as prescribed. Article 74 (1) says 'there shall be a
Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head to aid and advice the
President who shall, in exercise of his functions, act in accordance with such
advice'. Article 75 says: '(1) The Prime Minister shall be appointed by the
President and the other Ministers shall be appointed by the President on the
advice of the Prime Minister'. Prime Minister is the leader of the House. As per
the Constitution, the elected MPs belonging to a political Party having secured
majority seats in Lok Sabha will form the Executive Government, those MPs
constitute a Parliamentary Party. Main opposition party, which has highest
number of seats next to ruling party, also will be enjoying constitutional status

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 45
 and minister rank as leader of opposition. Similarly all other Parliamentary
Parties of the 'original parties' having multiple members in Parliament, are
totally financed by the Government. The secretariat of Lok Sabha or Rajya
Sabha, which gave them room, phone and secretarial assistance, shall have to
facilitate the Legislature (Parliamentary) parties to disclose information sought.
Besides, each MP has a moral duty to inform people in general on their own,
about the developmental activities under MPLADs in particular recommended by
him in their constituency. The MP, as an individual making promises to his voters
in the Constituency, is a constitutional office holder. The Parliamentary Party,
unlike individual MP, is a body, group of persons who individually have authority
to elect a Prime Minister and collectively to form or dislodge a Government, pass
laws that would alter the rights and duties of the people. The people elected
them trusting their manifesto, promises of candidates and details provided by
them in affidavits about their economic, educational and criminal background.
After getting elected, each MP of ruling party has a governmental and
Constitutional duty to answer the people. Apart from all the above mentioned
reasons, the Parliamentary party of ruling political party, i.e., BJP, which has 282
members in Lok Sabha, (besides substantial representation in Rajya Sabha),
while each Lok Sabha member gets Rs 5 Crore per year, for five years for
developmental works in their respective constituencies, which comes to Rs 1410
crore per annum and Rs 7050 thousand crore per five years. (Similarly Rajya
Sabha members also will get Rs 30 crore each). Similarly the Congress Party,
and its Parliamentary Party with 44 members in Lok Sabha will get quota of Rs
220 cr. for development works and Rs 1100 crore per five years, in addition to
Rs 30 cr. each for their Rajya Sabha members. On the same lines other
Parliamentary Parties also will get proportionate Quota of Funds under MPLADS.
Hence, each Parliamentary Party of Original Political Parties with multiple
members in Parliament shall be a public authority as per the clauses of Section
2(h) of RTI Act- falling under category of authority or body or institution
established or constituted,-- (a) by or under the Constitution; (b) by any other law made by Parliament; ...includes any-- (i) body owned, controlled or substantially financed; (ii) non-Government Organisation substantially financed, directly or
 indirectly by funds provided by the appropriate Government; CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 46 53. Parliamentary Party is a body constituted by Constitution; each MP comes
into existence as per procedure prescribed by law made by Parliament,
Representation of People Act . If for any reason, they disagree on this point, and
argue that they are Non-Governmental Organization but governing the country
by virtue of people's votes, each MP and their Parliamentary Party is totally
controlled by the executive government, besides being substantially financed.
None can doubt the fact that they are totally financed by the Union of India. 54. The office of the Speaker occupies a pivotal position in our parliamentary
democracy. It has been said of the office of the Speaker that while the members
of Parliament represent the individual constituencies, the Speaker represents the
full authority of the House itself. She symbolises the dignity and power of the
House over which she is presiding. Therefore, it is expected that the holder of
this office of high dignity has to be one who can represent the House in all its
manifestations. ...The office of the Speaker in India is a living and dynamic
institution which deals with the actual needs and problems of Parliament in the
performance of its functions. The Speaker is the constitutional and ceremonial
head of the House. She is the principal spokesperson of the House. It is in her
that the responsibility of conducting the business of the House in a manner
befitting the place of the institution in a representative democracy is invested.
(See https://speakerloksabha.nic.in/roleofthespeaker.asp#adm) In the
discharge of his/her Constitutional and statutory responsibilities, the Speaker,
Lok Sabha is assisted by the Secretary-General, Lok Sabha. 55. The Vice-President of India is ex officio Chairman of Rajya Sabha. He is the
channel of communication between the House and any other outside person or
authority. He has to decide under constitutional provisions whether a member of
Rajya Sabha has tendered his resignation voluntarily. He has also to decide
under the constitutional provisions, question of disqualification on grounds of
defection. Under the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Rajya
Sabha, the Chairman admits notices of Questions, Motions, Resolutions, etc.
Rajya Sabha has a Secretariat of its own headed by the Secretary-General, who
is a permanent official working under the overall control of the Chairman of
Rajya Sabha. CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 47 56. The recommendations of the Special Lok Sabha Committee after sting
operation, suggestions by various committees referred above and constructive
findings of Sri A Surya Prakash's Book should have been considered by the
appropriate Constitutional office holders in the Parliament and introduced
necessary transparency systems. Let us have a look at the huge quantum of
money allocated under this head. There are 545 MPs in Lok Sabha and 245 in
Rajya Sabha. 790 x Rs 5 Cr per year = Rs 3950 cr. This scheme (is it a scheme
or program or distribution of money?) has spread, like a viral, to almost all State
Legislative Assemblies and Union Territories. The states went on increasing the
fund year after the year. For instance, the official website of Delhi Government
in its guidelines says: "The scheme was started in the year 1994-95 when the
fund under the scheme was Rs.1.00 crore per MLA per year. After gaining some
experience the Govt. decided to revise the scheme & increase the fund to
Rs.1.40 crore per MLA per year w.e.f. 1999-2000". From the financial year
2000-01 the limit of Rs.1.40 crore has been raised to Rs.1.90 crore per MLA.
And from 2004-05, the limit has been further increased to Rs.2.00 crore and
w.e.f 2011-12 the limit has been further increased to Rs. 4 crore. Under this
scheme of "Strengthening and Augmentation of Infrastructure facilities in each
Assembly Constituency", commonly known as MLALAD's each MLA can suggest
small works of capital nature to be done in their constituencies' up to the tune of
Rs.4.00 crore in a year with each individual project not exceeding Rs.2 crore".
(http://delhi.gov.in/wps/wcm/connect/a61120004ea387f2b5c3f78cde80066d/ml
alad%2Bguidelines.html?MOD=AJPERES&lmod=228286823). Bihar cabinet in
2010 December resolved to scrap the MLALADS on the ground of corruption.
Speaking to the media about the decision taken in the two-hour long meeting,
State Cabinet and Coordination Department's Principal Secretary Afzal
Amanullah said the cabinet decided in principle to scrap allocation of LAD funds
for MLAs and MLCs, he said: "The next cabinet meeting scheduled to take place
on December 14 will discuss an alternative scheme. The decision was taken in
the light of charges of corruption being raised from several quarters," said
Amanullah". (http://archive.indianexpress.com/news/nitish-govt-to-scrap-fund-
allocation-for-mlas-mlcs/723368/) But within three years, the fund allocated for
MLAs is doubled (from Rs 1 crore). A news report says: "Sulking over the
scrapping of their local area development fund by Chief Minister Nitish
Kumar more than two years ago, the legislators in Bihar have something to
cheer about now. They can recommend development works worth Rs 2 crore
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 48
 every year in their respective constituencies from now onwards under the
existing Chief Minister Area Development Scheme (CMADS). Besides, they will
head a monitoring committee at the sub-divisional level to oversee the progress
of the schemes". (https://www.indiatoday.in/india/east/story/nitish-kumar-
doubles-fund-for-bihar-lawmakers-bihar-chief-minister-157788-2013-04-04).
Similarly Jammu & Kashmir doubled it from Rs 1.5 cr to 3 cr per year in 2017.
Different states are offering crore every year to MLAs: Andhra Pradesh, Assam,
Mizoram, Odisha Rs 1 crore each; Puducherry 1.25 cr; Gujarat-1.5; Madhya
Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Maharasthra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Uttar Pradesh,
Rajasthan- Rs 2 cr each; Arunchal Pradesh, Uttarakhand & Tamil Nadu Rs 2.5 cr
each; Jammu & Kashmir and Talangana-Rs 3 cr each; Delhi & Jharkhand-Rs 4 Cr
each; and Kerala-Rs 5 Cr. Seven states out of 29 have legislative councils; AP-
58, Bihar-75, J & K 36, Karnataka 75, Maharasthra -78, Telangana-40 and UP-
100 in all 462 MLCs in seven states. (Delhi State Cabinet has decided to increase
the fund from 4 cr to 10 cr per annum, i.e., Rs 50 cr per MLA for five year term,
https://www.dailypioneer.com/2018/page1/delhi-govt-plans-to-hikemla-lad-
fund-to-rs-10-cr.html). (Note: Information of MLALADS quota per annum from
at least 14 states/UTs could not be accessed) Number of MLAs we have in all
states is 4120. Total strength of MLAs and MLCs is 4120+462= 4582 x average
of Rs 2 cr per annum that could be spend on local area development comes to
Rs 9164 Cr. If this is added to Rs 5 cr each allotted x 790 MPs (545 LS + 245
RS) = Rs 3850 Cr. Grand total Rs 3850 + Rs 9164 = Rs 13014 Cr is being spent
on this scheme every year from public exchequer. The major lacunae of the
MPLADS are that though it is a massive scheme with Rs 13014 Cr per annum (in
five years Rs 65070), but without any legal basis, transparency, accountability,
answerability and liability besides have no sound policy behind. Most risk factor
is MPs and MLAs enjoy unreasonably high immunity and power. The
recommendation for works up to Rs 5 cr per annum (for MP) and Rs 2 cr
(average per MLA) is totally dependent on the personal discretion of the elected
legislator, who has unquestioned privilege. This is a very fertile ground for
corruption which puts an existing legislator in a very high advantage in terms of
money in competition with aspiring candidates, which is totally against the
principles of rule of law and equality. There are neither proper rules nor
regulations, because there is no law. There are only guidelines, which could be
easily changed by Executive and flouted by MPs without any consequence. The
procedure prescribed for works is reverse in this scheme. In all other
CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 49
 programs/schemes a work has to be proposed, viability need to be examined
and then funds will be allocated or released. But in MPLADS, first funds are
allocated, then works are recommended, thereafter district administration has to
implement it if viable. Because of this reversing of process, the need for securing
the funds increased. The Parliament of India, basically has been conceived as
most transparent constitutional institution. Though there is a rule providing for
secret sittings when national security is threatened, there was no secret sitting
of the Parliament so far, which means every sitting was open to public. The
standing committee of Parliament on different subjects have proved how
effective they are. The Parliament is also known for enforcing strict financial
discipline. Not even a single rupee could be spent without prior sanction by the
House, which also should be based on strict rules and regulations. But MPLADS
that was launched in 1993 allows sanction of Rs five crore per annum without
prior study of viability of work and before it was recommended. There are no
strict provisions to make it transparent. It is totally discretionary based massive
funded scheme prone to high corruption leaving no scope to scrutiny at
appropriate stages. Besides unquestionable discretion under MPLADS, the MPs
are accorded high privileges. They have power of fixing or increasing their own
salaries and allowances by making law without any pre-enactment obligations to
conduct survey and fix appropriate scales. It is difficult to prevent corruption in
such a non-transparent massive funding scheme, without legal basis, totally
dependent upon individual discretion with unquestionable privileges coupled with
immunity of MPs. Because of existing transparency principles, every word
uttered in Parliament is recorded and kept in public domain. Live telecasting of
entire proceedings made it further open to people; and by introducing the
Information Communication technology supported transparency systems would
enhance the prestige of Parliament further. When Honourable MPs are caught on
camera negotiating a bribe or another respectful member of Elders House flee
from the country, the dignity of the people's House will suffer, and everybody
occupying a seat in power has a moral and legal duty to bring back the dignity of
the House through transparency. It is sad that law makers of the nation did not
make law for their own MPLADS. 57. The Commission directs the CPIOs of the Offices of Secretary General Lok
Sabha and Rajya Sabha to place this order on MPLADS before the Honourable
Speaker Lok Sabha and Honourable Chairman Rajya Sabha, to facilitate
appropriate action. The Commission humbly recommends these two personalities
holding high positions in the most important Constitutional Estate: The Central
Legislature (Parliament) to consider: 58. The Commission recommends the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs to render
necessary assistance to Honourble Chairman of Rajya Sabha and Honourble
Speaker to develop legal frame for MPLADS as mentioned above and to make all
Parliamentary Parties and MPs answerable and accountable for MPLADS funds as
public authorities under RTI Act to prevent MPLADS irregularities. 59. In this case the honourable MP Shri Devender Prasad Yadav, is a member of
the 14th Lok Sabha from Jhanjharpur Constituency of Bihar from Rashtriya
Janata Dal. It was reported that he left RJD and formed a new party called
Samajwadi Party in Bihar. The Parliamentary Party of Rashtriya Janata
Dal should take responsibility of providing the information sought, on behalf of
their former MP Shri Devender Prasad Yadav, who is also individually expected
to oblige to disclose the information. CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 52 60. This former MP has not hesitated to provide even his personal information
on this link: http://164.100.47.194/Loksabha/members/
ArchiveMemberBioprofile.aspx?mpsno=525&lastls=14. The MPLADS website
shows that Shri Devendra Prasad Yadav of Jhanjharpur, has recommended
works for the entire quota of his MPLADS. His utilization over released amount is
101.65%. The former MP should not have any difficulty in explaining the works,
their progress, results and beneficiaries he recommended. Cumulative Expenditure (Since inception in 1993 till 14th LokSabha)
 Entitlement Released Amount Cumulative Amount Expenditure Percent Unspent
 of by G.O.I. available amount Sanctioned Incurred of Balance
 Constituency (Rs.Crore) with recommended (Rs.Crore) (Rs.Crore) Utilisation (Rs.Crore)
 (Rs.Crore) interest by Over
 (Rs.Crore) Members of Released
 Parliament
 for various
 M.P's Name MPLADS
 and works
Sl.No. Constituency (Rs.Crore)
 (0) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9)
 1 Devendra 26.05 26.05 26.48 28.51 25.61 26.48 101.65 0.00
 9 Prasad
 Yadav
 JHANJHARPUR 61. The Commission directs the CPIO of Ministry of Statistics and Program
Implementation to collect information from concerned district authorities and
furnish the information sought as far as their MP is concerned within one month,
and publish it in their official website also. Considering the Parliamentary Party
of RJD as the public authority under Section 2(h) of the RTI Act, 2005 the
Commission require the office of Parliamentary Party of RJD, Parliament of India,
to collect the information from former MP or concerned district authorities and
publish it on their website. 62. The State Governments and their nodal district authorities are under the
jurisdiction of the State Information Commissions; hence, apparently the Central
Information Commission has no authority to direct them on these issues. But the
information sought by the appellant is related to MPLADS work for which
respondent MoSPI from centre has released funds, and such information is
supposed to be disclosed by the authorities on their own as per Section 4(1)(b) of RTI Act. Non-compliance of Section 4 obligations will amount to a serious
dereliction of RTI Act . Under Section 19(8) the Commission require to make
certain changes in transparency disclosures and furnishing certain categories of
information for RTI requests. To that extent the concerned district authorities,

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 53
 are accountable to the MoSPI, the funds-releasing agency on submission of
utilization certificates, and thus, is under an obligation to submit details
explaining how such fund was properly spent. As the appellant sought such
information from public authority MoSPI under RTI, they have a duty to assist it
by furnishing those details to share with appellant. According to S. 19(8)(a)(iii) ,
the Commission requires the District Administration to furnish such information
work-wise, MP-wise, year wise progress of works regularly to the MoSP,
concerned MP, his Parliamentary Party, and also office of the Parliament. 63. As per Section 19(8)(a)(iii) the Commission require public authority to make
certain changes in transparency disclosures and furnishing certain categories of
information for RTI requests. Because the information under demand was
concerning the progress of MPLADS, the CIC has jurisdiction to that extent to
seek from the authority which is holding it. Exercising that power, the
Commission requires the District Administration to furnish information about
work-wise, MP-wise, year wise progress of works regularly on its website or
other means convenient to the MoSP, concerned MP, concerned Parliamentary
Party, and office of the Parliament. 64. The Commission noticed that MoSPI does not have any information about
the actual status of this work though they release the funds. The MoSPI is
receiving the utilization certificates from district authority, but they are not
keeping any utilization details on the website and it is also not known whether
utilization certificate contain physical details of actual works. The CPIO did not
show any papers to say that Ministry probed these numbers to find what works
were actually completed. Surprisingly this Ministry neither monitored the
progress nor secured complete details from District authorities. 65. The Commission as per section 19(8)(a)(iii) requires the public authority
(the Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation) to make necessary
changes to publish MP-wise, Constituency wise and work-wise details, with
names of beneficiaries, and reasons for delay, if any, after duly procuring from

CIC/ISTIN/A/2017/184311 Page 54
 the sources holding such information including the concerned district
administration to ensure its voluntary disclosure under Section 4 . SD/-