SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Spent 10 years in US and moved back to India to be closer to parents but getting frustrated with system and society. From what I have heard, lot of people end up moving back to US. Did anyone had been in same situation?
DATE: 2021-05-11
SCORE: 28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/n9zui7/spent_10_years_in_us_and_moved_back_to_india_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had done my masters along with 8 years of work in US and went to US when I was 21. I relocated to India in Jan 2020 after carefully considering the things for 1 year. It has been more than 16 months but I have started to have serious second thoughts.

The people, environment and society is too difficult to adapt and adjust. Everything is unreliable and there is lack of professionalism whether at work or in the services. COVID has exposed some serious issues that even after paying 30 % of tax, Government and system cannot take care of us. The government irrespective of political party just wants 30 % tax + duties + GST, sell us overpriced petrol and vote for them. On contrast, even if I was not US citizen, I still got $1900 in stimulus check from US government as I paid my taxes. On top of that, scams going on oxygen cylinders, medicines and what not. It seems like nor the system and nor the society has any moral respect left.

Work culture isn't too good either. There is a strange negative energy in society that emancipates from workplace, WhatsApp groups, people like to talk about dark and negative things. I was so excited when I came from US in a one way flight, without a job yet excited and full of optimism that US had imparted in me. However, in all the time I have spent in India I seem to have developed a strange pessimism. Currently, I am making more than 40 Lac per year but I have realized money is irrelevant.

I never valued US much when I lived there- neither the country, the society or the people. But after staying away from US for this long, I slowly realized how much I liked that country, how overall professional, honest and helpful most people were in US. I miss that country now - its optimism, its wide open countryside, clean air, fall colors, going on kayaking or trails on weekends. When i lived in US, I felt India was my home. But after living in India, I feel US had become my home even if I never realized it. Has anyone been through same feelings.

I am seriously considering the option of Canada, even though I would get low salary there as compared to US and India, but it would be at least a society similar or same as US.

Thank you