The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has suspended the telecom services of telemarketing entities V-con Intelligent Security and OneXtel Media for sending malicious messages. The two telemarketers have sent 55.5 million spam messages since January this year, according to a report by the Economic Times (ET).

The order also directs telecom companies to lodge a police complaint against the telemarketers for missing the distributed ledger technology (DLT) platform and sending malicious and phishing messages. The DLT is used to verify registered telemarketer headers and message templates. Telecom companies must not allow promotional messages to be sent by unregistered telemarketers. They must take action against erring telemarketers and share details of these telemarketers with other telcos as well.

The telecom department began its investigation following complaints by telco users about malicious SMSes. To tackle these, it ordered blacklisting of 131 principal entities (telemarketers), 5,000 SMS content templates, and 700 SMS headers but found that fraudsters were coming up with new headers to bypass the DLT platform.

The two companies reportedly received money from bank accounts involved in multiple complaints of organized transnational crimes, including illegal stock investment frauds. Gujarat Police has opened up an investigation into the matter, sources told ET. This comes soon after the DoT used facial recognition tech to block 6.76 lakh SIM cards and 10, 296 mobile phones in Gujarat for their involvement in cybercrime.

One of the key obstacles to spam-curbing measures is that telecom companies profit from calls and messages traversing their networks, giving them little motivation to crack down on this unwanted traffic, Nikhil Narendran, a partner at Trilegal, told MediaNama in an interview last year. As such, making telcos responsible for curbing spam/scam calls and messages would not prove to be an effective solution.

The government continues to involve telcos in the regulatory process despite this glaring issue. The Telecom regulator convened a meeting attended by representatives from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), and telcos in June this year to discuss spam. Similarly, the Department of Consumer Affairs enlisted the help of telecom companies in formulating its spam-curbing guidelines.

Another key issue that the Telecom regulator has highlighted in the past is that spammers continuously create new techniques to send spam messages, sometimes changing these techniques within a matter of hours. This can make it challenging for spam/scam curbing techniques to be actually effective.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event