SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Dear Piyush Goyal onthe irrelevance 40+ aged
DATE: 2025-04-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1jrtpms/dear_piyush_goyal_onthe_irrelevance_40_aged/

--- POST TEXT ---

Dear Peeyoosh Gooyell ji,

I have been crying the same, but in the wilderness, Alas in vain!

As the Union Commerce and Industries Minister you have aced the speech at a startup ecosystem event but what exactly can he do now matters more to enable indians create original disruptions for the world beyond quickcommerce which is not a bad start. You reprimanded the Sharktank India gently, to go beyond businesses, and trading. You insinuated to encourage original products and Indian origin advanced disruptions by 2047. Ironically, you gave up on the next 15 years, and literally wrote off the people in the 40 to 60 age bracket in your vision, indeed smacks of blatant ageism. Unfortunately longevity has increased and suicide is a crime.

The Last original famous product export is zero or the decimal system first to Arabia through them to Europe re-labled as Arabic numerals. Forget global consumers even consumers in India don't trust “made-in-India”, and crave for brands outside India. Outside india in shopping malls, or online a “made-in-india” product is a rare sighting, like the endangered Bengal tiger. Careless design, poor built, poorer quality, poorest packaging, and worst treatment to customers post sale, have been the hall marks of most Indian makers. Regarding the Indian Family Inc. the less i say about the better it is, they along with sports, and other celebrities proudly flaunt imported designer personal effects from watches to cars. Making and exporting, is a far cry. Most of their next generation hiers are not even born in India. Heights of dhowglapan, hypocrisy

Here is my root cause analysis, a biopsy of an almost terminally ill startup ecosystem of India:

1) cheap services cash and carry mindset.

2) no long term brand vision averse to be liable and accountable to take a stand in global markets.

3) more focus on N times exits.

4) catching up global with trends and buzz-words syndrome.

5) mostly SaaS intensive less or negligible tangible R and D.

6) zero hardware innovations or OEM brands.

7) Risk averse due to fear of imitation by bigger fish. Copy cats scale with more reach.

8) draconian interest rates in private funding.

9) comparison and expectation with scam rate of return. One HNI said startups are nice to have but any given day he would bet on the black-market friendly essentials like the urban land for it will sky rocket for sure. If an inventor can pledge an equivalent property he would consider financing but not investing. I am afraid oxygen hoarding and black-marketing would be his next choice.

10) no regard for intellectual property protection.

11) virtually, no redressal system, for inventors to cry on shoulder.

12) lack of fear of law, Thaareekh pe Thaareekh, unpredictability turning genuine investors hostile.

No wonder Highest mortality rate of startups. Seeking immediate intervention, like the shocks from a defibrillator.

All the brutally honest fingers would squarely point at the LEARNED yet highly inefficient judiciary of India.

Ultimately the buck stops at the rusted and jammed wheels of judiciary of India. With over 50 million pending cases which will take the next 350 years at the present rate and only 20 judges per million citizens which is undoubtedly the world’s worst ratio of all times. Fill the seventy thousand plus vacancies in the judiciary on a warfooting to assuage the SOS state of affairs and clear the Himalayan backlog of cases. Test, hire, train and repeat, recruit judges and enable them with bias-free AI bot assistants. Give 5 times tax free salaries, and incentives on each case, example on a profitable case judged a civil case give a 2% or a fixed amount on the value, else invoke the provision for a crowd fund to gift in tiny amounts as a token of apreciation for the honest perfomance, but in large volumes the telephonic entry fee to a TV quiz show.

Hypothetically, if a few millionaires can offer to bribe say in the order of 100 thousand to tilt the balance in their favor, imagine how much a crowd from a fraction of 1.3 billion people can flood the pockets as an incentive out of happiness for giving a guilt free verdict in the favour of a poor victim or poor accused aquitted. Instilling faith in the holier-than-thou judiciary.

Now this Incentive framework, AI workflows is a creative and serious startup idea made in india, for India and similar global markets. Crowdfund judiciary, civil servants, law enforcement to motivate to work honestly addressing their pressure or temptation of corruption from within or from family to own a Christian Dior bag or a Louis Vutton jacket or both. Nothing wrong on their families’ part to aspire for such items. But We can intelligently replace the source of unaccounnted for black money with tax-free candid bonuses in the national interest. Just turning the sails to align with the winds. This is the 1st place to fix the bad rut of the system, a chaotic clogged gutter with a flush of attention, tech and resources. India will become an advanced nation beyond the rich by making this catalytic use of tech putting growth on steroids. Lubricating the wheels and scaling to match the demand.

Analogous to priority booking in Indian Railways called tathkaal, meaning instant which is making up for loss in the otherwise subsidized tickets and even making profits. Offer a 25% official tax-free cut on the penalty as an incentive to traffic cop on each ticket. Their performace will be on steroids beating the private sector employees. I am reiterating tax free time and again, for a reason if taxed on salaries and bonuses, the whole purpose is lost, returns to olden days in a dog-tail crookedness syndrome.

Given the consent of the learned judiciary, Peeyoosh Gooyal ji, the tech tigers of India, both the youth, &amp;the globally experienced middle-aged can lay the guide rails to revamp the processes and systems to Fast forward the honorable Prime Minister Modi ji’s dream of Vikasith Bhaarath by 10 years within your, and our 45+ people’s active life span. If the executive is game for it, the tech can be the 5th pillar, a booster can the rest 4 fly, buckle up for the escape flight to advancement! If you have the inclination we have the time, and energies.

Itvis ubfair to dismiss the contributions and existance of 40+ in future nation building to pander to a gallery. if leveraged we cab bring 2047 im 2037.

Jai Hind!

Glory to Democracy!

yours,

An aguished citizen and 45+ technocrat,

Venkata Indheevar Nemaani

my x id is, @indee4all

why #malena is real. A prod