Though this appeal is listed for admission, with the

consent of learned counsel on both sides it is heard finally. 2. The appellant was the plaintiff in

O.S.No.26444/2014, while the respondents herein were

the defendants in the said suit. The plaintiff filed the said

suit seeking the following reliefs: 3. The aforesaid reliefs pertain to the following

suit schedule properties. 4. At this stage, itself it may be stated that 'B'

schedule property is a part of 'A' schedule property. 5. In response to the suit summons and Court

notices, some of the defendants appeared, defendant

Nos.5 and 8, being the financiers of defendant Nos.6, 7, 9

and 10 respectively, appeared. Defendant No.8 /

respondent No.8 herein filed an application under Order

VII Rule 11 (d) read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil

Procedure, 1908 ( CPC ), seeking rejection of the plaint. By

the impugned order and decree dated 11.11.2016, the

plaint filed by the appellant - plaintiff has been rejected.

Being aggrieved, the plaintiff has preferred this appeal. 6. We have heard learned counsel for the

appellant / plaintiff and learned counsel for respondent

Nos.5 and 8 / defendant Nos.5 and 8 - financiers/Banks.

Respondent No.8 is on caveat, while respondent No.5 is

represented through counsel. Service of notice to

respondent Nos.2 to 4, 6 and 7 has been dispensed with. 8 Respondent Nos.1, 9 and 10 are served and

unrepresented. 7. Appellant's counsel submitted that the trial

Court was not right in rejecting the plaint at the instance

of defendant No.8 on an application filed by the said

defendant under Order VII Rule 11(d) read with Section

151 of CPC by holding that the suit was barred in view of Section 13(4) , 17 and 34 of the Securitisation and

Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of

Security Interest Act, 2002 (' SARFAESI Act ' for the sake of

convenience). She contended that the suit filed by the

plaintiff was with regard to two reliefs and it was a

comprehensive suit. The main relief was for declaring that

the plaintiff is the absolute owner of plaint 'B' schedule

property and consequential relief was for a decree of

permanent injunction restraining the defendants from

interfering with plaintiff's peaceful possession and

enjoyment of plaint 'B' schedule property. The trial Court

could not have rejected the plaint by holding that the suit 9 was barred in view of Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act.

She contended that the suit was not for challenging the

measures taken by the 5th or 8th defendants - Banks under

the provisions of the SARFAESI Act , the suit was instituted

having regard to Section 9 of the CPC, seeking a

declaration of title and consequential reliefs under Section

34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. 8. It is the case of the plaintiff that 'B' schedule

property had been purchased by him under a registered

sale deed and he had been put in possession of the said

flat. That the sale was executed by defendant Nos.1 to 4

for a valuable consideration of Rs.34,98,000/-. Defendant

Nos.5 and 8 are stated to be the Banks who have lent

monies to defendant Nos.6, 7, 9 and 10 respectively and

claim that certain immovable property has been

mortgaged to them for the purpose of financial assistance

to the said defendants, but it is not 'B' schedule property

which has been purchased by the plaintiff. Therefore,

plaintiff being troubled by defendants' Bank's sought a 10 declaratory and consequential relief of permanent

injunction vis-à-vis his title and possession of 'B' schedule

property; that the Civil Court is the Court of competent

jurisdiction before which such a plaint could be instituted.

That the trial Court was not right in rejecting the plaint by

holding that the suit was barred on the premise that the 'B'

schedule property was indeed the subject matter of

mortgage to the respondent Nos.5 and 8 - Bank. It is the

case of the plaintiff that what has been mortgaged by the

borrowers of the respondent Nos.5 and 8 - Bank is in

respect of non-existing flat; that what has

been purchased by the borrowers therein is not 'B'

schedule property which has been purchased by the

plaintiff, that the Bankers have proceeded to take certain

steps against the borrowers, but in effect were trying to

interfere with plaintiff's possession of 'B' schedule

property. Therefore, the plaintiff was constrained to file

the suit. 9. Further, learned counsel for the appellant

contended that the trial Court misdirected itself and

instead of reading the averments in the plaint has been

carried away what has been stated by defendant No.8 in

the application and has concluded that the plaint has to be

rejected and has accordingly, rejected the same. She

further submitted that it was only defendant No.8, who has

made such an application, the other defendants namely,

defendant No.5 did not prefer such application. On the

other hand, defendant No.5 has only filed written

statement; that the vendors of the plaintiffs are yet to

appear in the suit, but the plaint has been rejected, which

is erroneous. As a result, the attempt of the plaintiff to

seek the relief of declaration and permanent injunction

before the Civil Court has been frustrated. In support of

her submissions, she has placed reliance on the decision in MARDIA CHEMICALS LTD. AND OTHERS v. UNION OF

INDIA AND OTHERS - [(2004) 4 SCC 311] (Mardia

Chemical Lt.) as well as other judgments of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court and various High Courts. Learned counsel 12 for the appellant, therefore, submitted that the impugned

order and decree may be set aside and the suit may be

restored on the file of the trial Court, so that it could be

disposed of in accordance with law. 10. Per contra, learned counsel for respondent

No.8 / defendant No.8 who had filed the application under

Order VII Rule 11(d) read with Section 151 of the CPC

supported the impugned order and decree of the trial

Court. He contended that the 'B' schedule property is

indeed the property which has been mortgaged by

defendant Nos.9 and 10 to the Bank. That defendant

Nos.9 and 10 are the prior purchasers of the said property

while the plaintiff is the subsequent purchaser. That

defendant Nos.9 and 10, who are borrowers of the Bank

have mortgaged the said property and therefore, any

further encumbrance is not permissible in law. He further

submitted that the 'B' schedule property is a secured asset

and hence, action was initiated under Section 13 of

SARFAESI Act against the borrowers; that if any person 13 including a borrower is aggrieved by the action initiated by

the Bank or financial institution, then remedy is provided

under Section 17 of SARFAESI Act; that Section 34 of the

said Act clearly bars the Civil Court from having any

jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of

any matter which a Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) or the

Appellate Tribunal (DRAT) is empowered by or under the

said Act to determine and no injunction shall be granted by

any Court or other authority in respect of any action taken

or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or

under this Act or under the Recovery of Debts Due to

Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (hereinafter

referred to as 'DRT' for the sake of convenience). He

stated that Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of JAGDISH SINGH v. HEERALAL reported in (2014) 1

SCC 479 and by a subsequent judgment passed in the

case of M/S.SREE ANANDHAKUMAR MILLS LTD. v.

M/S.INDIAN OVERSEAS BANK in Civil Appeal

Nos.7214-7216/2012 disposed of on 03.05.2018, have

clearly held that in respect of a secured asset to a Bank or 14 financial institution, a suit is not maintainable, either by a

borrower or any other person; that the plaintiff can

approach the DRT under Section 17 of SARFAESI Act and

seek relief by assailing the action taken by the Bank. In

the instant case, the plaintiff has, instead, approached the

Civil Court seeking the reliefs, which suit filed by the

plaintiff could not have been entertained in view of the bar

under Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act; that the trial Court

has rightly rejected the plaint under Order VII Rule 11(d) of the CPC . There is no merit in the appeal. Hence,

appeal may be dismissed. 11. By way of reply, learned counsel for the

plaintiff submitted that there are intrinsic questions

regarding title to 'B' schedule property which arise in the

suit as well as other rights touching upon the 'B' schedule

property and the reliefs sought for by the plaintiff. One of

the questions that would arise is, as to, whether, the

vendors of the plaintiff have sold a non-existing flat in 'A'

schedule property to the borrower or whether it is indeed 15 the 'B' schedule property which belongs to the plaintiff

which has been sold; that it is the case of the plaintiff that

'B' schedule property has been sold by plaintiff's vendors

to the plaintiff. But, the bankers are mistaken by

contending that the said 'B' schedule property is the

subject matter of mortgage and proceedings initiated

against the borrower; that the subject matter of mortgage

is totally distinct from the subject matter of the suit. In

the circumstances, the plaintiff was justified in seeking a

comprehensive relief in the nature of declaration and

injunction and therefore, the appeal may be allowed by

setting aside the order and decree of the trial court. 12. Having heard the learned counsel for the

respective parties and on perusal of the material on record

as well as the judicial precedent cited at the bar, the

following points would arise for our consideration: 13. The fact that the appellant - plaintiff had filed

O.S.No.26444/2014 before the trial Court seeking the

aforesaid reliefs namely, the relief of declaration of title

and consequential decree of permanent injunction against

the defendants/ respondents herein in respect of 'B'

schedule property which is situated in 'A' schedule

property is not in dispute. 14. It is the case of the appellant - plaintiff that

defendant No.1 was the owner of the immovable property

in 'A' schedule property; that defendant No.1 was desirous

of developing the 'A' schedule property and entered into a

joint development agreement with defendant No.2.

Defendant No.2 is a partnership firm, represented by its

partners namely, defendant Nos.3 and 4; that defendant

No.2 being the developer has constructed a residential

Apartment in the name and style of "Pavamana Paradise" 17 15. Learned counsel for the respondent No.8 have

contended that 'B' schedule property is a subject matter of

mortgage and the Bank has the right to initiate action

against the borrower and take measures under the

provisions of Section 13 and other provisions of the SARFAESI Act . There cannot be any interference with such

measures being taken by the Bank; that the object and

purpose of Section 34 of SARFAESI Act is that the Civil

Court has no jurisdiction to entertain any suit in respect of

property which is a subject matter of mortgage to a Bank

or financial institution i.e., a secured asset. But the

plaintiff has filed the suit in respect of the very same

secured asset. Therefore, Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act,

being a bar, the plaint was rightly rejected by the trial

Court. 16. As opposed to this argument, learned counsel

for the plaintiff contended that it is the clear case of the

plaintiff that 'B' schedule property flat is not the subject

matter of claim made by defendant Nos.1 to 4 to the

borrowers; that 'B' schedule flat has been conveyed to the

plaintiff and plaintiff is the owner and in possession of the

said flat. Therefore, on the basis of the title deed which is

in favour of the plaintiff, the suit for declaration of title and

consequential injunction has been sought. It is contended

that the crux of the matter, in the instant case, is with

regard to the title and ownership and possession of the 'B'

schedule property in respect of which a declaration has

been sought by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has not

challenged any of the measures initiated by respondent

Nos.5 and 8 - Bank, against the borrowers who are also

the defendants in the suit. If the Bankers assume that it is

the 'B' schedule property which is mortgaged and

therefore, is the secured asset and measures have been

taken in respect of that secured asset, the assumption is

wrong and in order to prove that the 'B' schedule property 21 is not a subject matter of mortgage, the plaintiff has

approached the Civil Court seeking the aforesaid reliefs. 17. At this stage, we shall consider the decisions

relied upon at the Bar: 18. Learned counsel for the respondent-Bank has

relied upon Jagadish Singh vs. Heeralal, [AIR 2014 SC

371], (Jagadish Singh), in support of his submissions that Sections 34 of ' SARFAESI Act ' ousts the jurisdiction of the

Civil Court and hence, this Court may not interfere with

the impugned judgment and order. In the said case, the

suit was for declaration of title and for partition and

consequential decree of permanent injunction. The

Hon'ble Supreme Court relied upon paragraph 50 of Mardia Chemical Limited and others vs. Union of

India and others , [(2004) 4 SCC 311], (Mardia

Chemical Limited), wherein it has been observed as under: And thereafter, in paragraph 22 and 23 observed as

under: The civil court in such circumstances has no
jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings
in respect of those matters which fall under
sub-section (4) of Section 13 of the
Securitisation Act because those matters fell
within the jurisdiction of the DRT and the
Appellate Tribunal. Further, Section 35 says,
the Securitisation Act overrides other laws, if
they are inconsistent with the provisions of
that Act, which takes in Section 9 CPC as well. 23. We are of the view that the civil court
jurisdiction is completely barred, so far as the
"measures" taken by a secured creditor under
sub-section (4) of Section 13 of the
Securitisation Act, against which an aggrieved
person has a right of appeal before the DRT or
the Appellate Tribunal, to determine as to
whether there has been any illegality in the
"measures" taken. The Bank, in the instant
case, has proceeded only against secured
assets of the borrowers on which no rights of
Respondent Nos.6 to 8 have been crystallised,
before creating security interest in respect of
the secured assets." (Underlining by us) 25 In the said case, the suit filed was for a declaration

that the suit schedule property was undivided joint family

of plaintiff and defendant Nos.1 to 4 therein and for a

decree of partition and separate possession and for

permanent injunction. In substance, the suit was one for

partition and separate possession between the members of

the family. 19. The aforesaid judgment has been followed in

M/s.Sree Anandhakumar Mills Limited vs. M/s.

Indian Overseas Bank and others, [(2019) 14 SCC

788] (Sree Anandhakumar Mills) wherein the suit filed was

for seeking partition and an order of injunction had been

passed therein. Placing reliance on Jagadish Singh, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court permitted the appellant therein to

approach the jurisdictional Debts Recovery Tribunal to

seek relief. 20. In Madhav Prasad Aggarwal and Another

vs. Axis Bank Limited and Another , [(2019) 7 SCC

158] (Madhav Prasad Aggarwal), the Hon'ble Supreme 26 Court on perusal of the relief sought for in the said suit

held that the relief of rejection of the plaint in exercise of

powers under Order VII Rule 11(d) of the Code of Civil

Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ) cannot be pursued only in respect

of one of the defendants. In other words, the plaint has to

be rejected as a whole or not at all, in exercise of power

under Order VII Rule 11(d) of CPC . Reliance was placed

on Sejal Glass Limited vs. Navilan Merchants Private

Limited , [(2018) 11 SCC 780] (Sejal Glass Limited), in

support of their reasoning. In other words, the plaint as

presented must proceed as a whole or rejected as a whole

but not in part. It was further observed that the fact that

one or some of the reliefs claimed against respondent No.1

in the concerned suit was barred by Section 34 of

SARFAESI Act or otherwise, can be considered when an

objection is raised by invoking other remedies including Order VI Rule 16 CPC at the appropriate stage. The same

can be considered by the Courts on its own merits in

accordance with law. 21. Further, reference was made to Nahar

Industrial Enterprises Limited vs. Hong Kong and

Shanghai Banking Corporation , [(2009) 8 SCC 646],

(Nahar Industrial Enterprises), to the effect that the Debts

Recovery Tribunal and also its Appellate Authority cannot

pass a decree nor it is open to it to enter upon its

determination in respect of the matters beyond the scope

of power or jurisdiction endowed in terms of Section 17 of

the SARFAESI Act. 22. In Nahar Industrial Enterprises Limited, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held that under Section 34 of the

SARFAESI Act, a suit is not barred nor is the jurisdiction of

the Civil Court ousted altogether to entertain a suit under Section 9 of CPC. That the Debts Recovery Tribunal

cannot be treated as a Civil Court, as the same is

constituted for a particular purpose and has a limited

jurisdiction and neither can it pass a decree nor a

declaratory relief can be granted by the Tribunal. That the

Tribunal can only issue a recovery certificate. 28 23. Further, a Division Bench of the Calcutta High

Court in Kaaiser Oils Private Limited and others vs.

Allahabad Bank and Others , [2015 SCC Online

Cal.1652], (Kaaiser Oils Private Limited), after

considering the similar contentions, has observed as

under: 24. In the said case, the Division Bench of the

Calcuatta High Court also distinguished the facts as they

obtained in Jagadish Singh's case and in the case under its

consideration. The plaintiff therein had filed a title suit

before the trial court and the cause of action for the said

suit was mainly founded on the allegation of breach of

contract made by the defendant-Bank in the disbursement

of loan amount as per the agreement and/or illegal

adjustment of cash credit and a letter of credit limited

against interest that was debited against the long-term

loans and adjustment of interest as against short-term

loan through plaintiff No.1 was not allowed to run its plant

in terms of the rehabilitation scheme due to the failure of

the bank to provide nearly 70% of the incremental portion

of the working capital facilities as per the bank's own

assessment as appearing in the sanctioned letter in

respect thereof. It was also alleged by the plaintiffs /

appellants that denial and refusal of defendant No.1 to

provide the plaintiff with the bank's benefits under the said

RBI guidelines / circulars also formed part of cause of 31 action of the suit. The plaintiffs claim that it suffered huge

losses due to short and delayed financing, non-providing

the reliefs available to MSME sector, non-compliance of the

directions of the RBI, etc. Consequently, the plaintiff

sought for a decree for Rs.15,219.86 lakhs as against

defendant No.1 and alternatively, sought an enquiry into

damages and decree for such sums as may be found due

and payable to the plaintiffs by defendant No.1.

Mandatory injunction was also sought for return of title

deeds and directing defendant No.1 to discharge the

guarantee given by defendant No.2 therein to defendant

No.1 for the plaintiff No.1's credit facilities and such other

incidental and ancillary reliefs. 25. On going through the reliefS sought, the

Calcutta High Court found that the suit was essentially for

recovery of damages where incidentally other reliefs

regarding release of title deeds, etc., were also claimed by

the plaintiffs by way of mandatory injunction. If, in such a

suit, the plaintiffs could establish their claim for damages 32 and if a decree was passed in favour of the

plaintiffs/appellants and the decretal amount exceeded the

bank's claim, the certificate which could be issued by the

Tribunal to the extent of the bank's claim would be

ultimately adjusted by way of set off against the decree for

damages to be passed by the Civil Court and in that event,

the bank could not retain the title deeds which the

plaintiffs deposited for securing the loan taken by the

plaintiffs from the Bank by way of equitable mortgage. If,

on the contrary, the Civil suit was dismissed and certificate

of recovery was ultimately issued by the Debts Recovery

Tribunal, then the bank could realise its dues by selling the

mortgaged property. 26. The Calcutta High Court further observed that

the Tribunal was incompetent to decide the disputed

questions of facts raised in the suit concerning plaintiffs'

claim for damages. It was further observed that if the

primary reliefs were held to be maintainable before the

Civil Court, then incidental reliefs could also be considered 33 by the Civil Court. More significantly, it was observed that

if the suit had been concerning any of the actions taken by

the Bank, either by issuance of notice under Section

13(2) and/or the steps taken by the Bank under Section

13(4) of the SARFAESI Act thereof which has been

challenged in the suit, then the civil court could have lost

the jurisdiction to entertain the suit which related to such

challenge regarding legality of issuance of notice

under Section 13(2) and/or the steps taken by the Bank

under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act. It was found

that no part of the cause of action was founded on the

basis of any challenge with regard to the legality of the

notice under Section 13(2) of the said Act and/or the steps

taken by the Bank under Section 13(4) of the said Act.

Hence, Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act did not stand in

the way of maintaining the suit which was primarily a suit

for recovery of damages along with other incidental reliefs

which were claimed by way of mandatory injunction for

release of the title deeds etc. Allegations were also made

by the defendant bank against the plaintiff therein for 34 siphoning off the loan amount to the other company and

thereby the plaintiff having committed fraud upon the bank

by not utilizing the fund by the plaintiff company for which

the loan was advanced by the bank. Thus, an issue relating

to element of fraud was likely to be raised in the said suit

along with other issues. It was observed that such issues

to be raised in such suit could be resolved by trial court on

recording evidence and not by the Debts Recovery

Tribunal. In fact, in the said case, the plaintiffs had

approached the Tribunal on identical issues seeking

identical reliefs but, the Tribunal had accepted the fact that

the dispute was of such a nature that it had to be tried by

the Civil Court and not by the Tribunal. Hence, the

Calcutta High Court observed that defendant Bank could

not take different stands at different point of time to non-

suit plaintiffs therein. 27. In fact, in Mardia Chemicals Limited in

paragraph 51, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed

that to a very limited extent, even in the case of asset 35 mortgaged to the Bank, which is a secured creditor, the

jurisdiction of the civil Court could be invoked where there

is an allegation of fraud. In such a case, the mortgager

can invoke the civil court's jurisdiction by contending that

the power of sale was being exercised in a fraudulent or

improper manner, contrary to the terms of mortgage. In

such limited circumstances, the civil court can entertain

the suit when there is a discovery of fraud provided the

pleadings in such a suit clearly discloses fraud or

irregularity on the basis of which relief is sought. 28. Learned counsel for the appellant also placed

reliance on a judgment of the Madras High Court in the

case of K.Deenadayalan vs. N.Sathish Kumar ,

represented by his power of attorney Agent N.Ashok

Kumar, [(2015) 1 Mad.L.J. 170 : 2014 SCC Online

Mad.12187] (K.Deenadayalan), wherein there was a

comparative consideration of Section 34 of the SARFAESI

Act and Section 18 of the Recovery of Debts due to Banks

and Banking Institutions Act, 1993 as well as the judgment 36 of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Jagadish Singh's case and

it was observed as under: provided under sub-section (4) of Section 13 of the Securitisation
Act. Consequently, if any aggrieved
person has got any grievance
against any "measures" taken by
the borrower under sub-section (4)
of Section 13 , the remedy open to
him is to approach the DRT or the
Appellate Tribunal and not the civil
court. The civil court in such
circumstances has no jurisdiction
to entertain any suit or
proceedings in respect of those
matters which fall under sub- section (4) of Section 13 of the
Securitisation Act because those
matters fell within the jurisdiction
of the DRT and the Appellate
Tribunal. Further, Section 35 says,
the Securitisation Act overrides
other laws, if they are inconsistent
with the provisions of that Act,
which takes in Section 9 CPC as
well." 25. In my considered view, the scope
of Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act and Section
18 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and
Financial Institutions Act, is not one and the
same or similar in its application. While Section
34 of the SARFAESI Act contemplates ouster of
Civil Court's jurisdiction to entertain any suit or
proceeding in respect of any matter which a
DRT or the Appellate Tribunal is empowered to
determine under the SARFAESI Act , Section
18 of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and
Financial Institutions Act contemplates the bar
of jurisdiction only in relation to the matters
specified under Section 17 of the Act therein.
This aspect has already been discussed in the
earlier paragraph of this order. Therefore , the
above decision of the Apex Court, which was
rendered while considering the scope
of Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act, will not
help the petitioner/fourth defendant, as I find
that the scope of the relevant provisions of
the SARFAESI Act and the Recovery of Debts
Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, as
discussed supra, is not one and the same. Even otherwise, a perusal of the factual
aspects of the matter before the Hon'ble 40 Supreme Court in the Jagdish Singh 's case
 (cited supra) would show that there was no
 plea of fraud or misrepresentation or failure to
 follow due procedures. Therefore, I consider
 that the said decision in Jagdish Singh 's case
 (cited supra) is also factually distinguishable." 29. Reliance was also placed by the appellant's

counsel on a judgment of Kerala High Court, in KHDFC

Bank Limited vs. Prestige Educational Trust , [2015

SCC Online Ker.22758 : AIR 2015 Ker.272] [OP(C)

No.889/2015(O), DD: 30.07.2015], wherein it was

observed that if a creditor is initiating action against an

asset, which is not a 'secured asset', he cannot be termed

as a 'secured creditor'. Further, such action by this would

not be an exercise of any power conferred by or under the SARFAESI Act . In such a case, it cannot be said that the

civil court has no power to grant an injunction. 30. In Central Bank of India vs. Mr.Ram

Rattan alias Rattan Lal and others, [2015 SCC Online

P&H 7482], [CR No.2475/2015 DD: 09.04.2015], 41 (Ram Rattan @ Rattan Lal) the learned Single Judge of

Punjab and Haryana High Court has observed that the

observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of United Bank of India vs. Satyawati Tondon and

others , [(2010) 8 SCC 110], (Satyawati Tondon) in the

context of a person who is aggrieved but who was not a

borrower to resort to a remedy under Section 17 of the

SARFAESI Act, did not extend to a person who is not a

borrower and who claims that his property was wrongfully

mortgaged by a person claiming the property to belong to

him could have remedy only under Section 17 . It was

further observed as under: 31. In the same vein, a Single Judge of the Madras

High Court in M/s. Consolidated Construction 43 Consortium Limited vs. M/s. Indian Bank, [AIR 2010

Madras 68], (M/s. Consolidated Construction) has

observed that a suit instituted challenging proceedings on

the ground of fraud cannot simply be dismissed by

invoking Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act by a Civil Court. 32. Similarly, in State Bank of India vs. Sagar

Pramod Deshmukh and Others, [AIR 2011 Bombay

144], a learned Single Judge of Nagpur Bench of Bombay

High Court, has held that the jurisdiction of the civil court

under section 34 of SARFAESI Act is barred only to the

extent of matter the Debts Recovery Tribunal or its

Appellate Tribunal which is empowered to determine. The

jurisdiction of the said Tribunal cannot be enlarged beyond

examination of validity of action of secured creditor under Section 13 . Thus, in all other disputes in respect of

secured assets, which do not fall within the jurisdiction of

Debts Recovery Tribunal under Section 17 or its Appellate

Tribunal under Section 18 , can be decided by Civil court

under Section 9 CPC. 33. What emerges from the aforesaid judicial

precedent is that the jurisdiction of the Civil Court under Section 34 of the SARFAESI ACT is barred in respect of

which jurisdiction the Debts Recovery Tribunal or an

Appellate Tribunal is empowered to determine a question.

In this regard, it would be useful to refer to Sections 17 and 18 of the SARFAESI Act. The same read as under: 17A. Making of application to Court of District
Judge in certain cases In the case of a
borrower residing in the State of Jammu and
Kashmir, the application under section 17 shall
be made to the Court of District Judge in that
State having jurisdiction over the borrower
which shall pass an order on such application.

Explanation : For the removal of doubts, it is
hereby declared that the communication of the
reasons to the borrower by the secured
creditor for not having accepted his
representation or objection or the likely action
of the secured creditor at the stage of
communication of reasons shall not entitle the
person (including borrower) to make an
application to the Court of District Judge under
this section. 18. Appeal to Appellate Tribunal--(1) Any
person aggrieved, by any order made by the
Debts Recovery Tribunal under section 17 , may
prefer an appeal alongwith such fee, as may be
prescribed to the Appellate Tribunal within
thirty days from the date of receipt of the
order of Debts Recovery Tribunal: PROVIDED
that different fees may be prescribed for filing
an appeal by the borrower or by the person
other than the borrower: 34. Therefore, the prohibition or the bar of

jurisdiction of a Civil Court does not extend to any matter

over which the Debts Recovery Tribunal or an Appellate

Authority could adjudicate. In other words, if a person is

aggrieved by any of the measures initiated by a secured

creditor under Section 13 or any other Sections of the

SARFAESI Act, in such a situation, the aggrieved party

could approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal or the

Appellate Tribunal under Sections 17 and 18 respectively.

Therefore, no suit could be filed as per Section 9 of CPC to

challenge any of the measures initiated by a secured

creditor under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act . Hence,

the Civil Courts' jurisdiction to entertain a suit for the

purpose of declaration of a title of a secured asset or to

seek any other relief in respect of that asset is not barred

as Debts Recovery Tribunal or an Appellate Tribunal cannot

grant such reliefs. The decision of the Division Bench of 51 the Calcutta High Court in Kaaiser Oil Pvt. Limited is

categorical in the above context. 35. Similarly, in Ram Rattan @ Rattan Lal, the

Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that if the plaintiff

approaches a Civil Court to contend that the secured asset

is his own property and the borrower had not created a

mortgaged interest in respect of the same, the Bank will

be entitled to contend that the plaintiff was not the owner

of the property which was rightfully mortgaged in his

favour by a person who was the owner. Of course, in such

circumstances, there could also be a collusion between the

borrower and the plaintiff so as to defeat the rights of the

secured creditor to enforce measures for recovery of the

outstanding dues. Civil Court will have to determine if

there is any such collusion or not and accordingly decide

the suit. 36. Thus, the catena of cases discussed above

have clearly brought about a distinction between the

jurisdiction of the Debts Recovery Tribunal and the 52 Appellate Tribunal to entertain a proceeding or an appeal

under Sections 17 and 18 of the SARFAESI Act by any

person aggrieved by the measures initiated under Sections

13 and 14 or any other provisions of SARFAESI Act as

opposed to a person filing a suit before a Civil Court in

respect of any immoveable property which incidentally

happens to be a secured asset. In the latter situation, the

person could approach a Civil Court and seek a declaratory

or other relief in respect of the secure asset. Such a relief

cannot be granted by the Debts Recovery Tribunal or the

Appellate Tribunal as they are not a Civil Court acting

under Section 9 of CPC. 37. We find considerable force in the argument of

learned counsel for the plaintiff inasmuch as the DRT does

not have the jurisdiction to grant the relief of declaration

of title and injunction in respect of any immovable

property; that power is exclusively in the domain of the

Civil Court. It is coincidental in the instant case, the Banks

have assumed that 'B' schedule property which is stated to 53 be purchased by the plaintiff is the subject matter of

mortgage. It is for the plaintiff to prove his case and for

the defendants and Banks to prove otherwise. After trial,

the trial Court could always dismiss the suit if plaintiff fails

to prove his case. But in the instant case, it is not on the

averments of the plaint, but on the contentions and

submissions and the averments made in the affidavit in

support of the application filed under Order VII Rule 11(d) of the CPC ; that the trial Court has proceeded to reject the

plaint. Infact, the trial Court has made certain observations

which could have been made only after trial of the suit and

at that stage. 38. Further, in the case of Jagdish Singh, the suit

was for partition and separate possession of the suit

schedule property, which was also a secured asset and

subject to action initiated under the SARFAESI Act .

Similarly, in the case of M/S.SREE ANANDHAKUMAR MILLS

LTD., the suit was for partition and separate possession.

But in the instant case, the suit is for the relief of 54 declaration of title and injunction in respect of the 'B'

schedule property. As already stated, the plaintiff would

have to prove his case in accordance with law and there

has to be an adjudication of title vis-à-vis the suit schedule

property. In the circumstances, there would have to be

trial of the suit. 39. Hence, we find that the impugned order and

decree of the trial Court is erroneous. The same is set

aside. O.S.No.26444/2014 is restored on the file of the

trial Court. Accordingly, the appeal is allowed. 40. The trial Court shall issue fresh suit summons

and notices to all the parties and thereafter, to dispose of

the suit in accordance with law. Parties to bear their respective costs.

 Since the matter has been remanded to the trial

Court, the plaintiff is entitled to refund of the entire Court

fee paid by him in terms of Section 64 of the Karnataka

Court-Fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1958. 55 Registry to refund the Court fee to the appellant

forthwith. In view of the disposal of the appeal, pending

applications stand disposed. Sd/- JUDGE

 Sd/- JUDGE

VMB/RK/-