JUDGMENT

1996 (1) SCR 128

The Judgment of the Court was delivered by

K. RAMASWAMY, J. C.A. Nos. 3163-64/95. These appeals by special leave arise
from the judgment dated January 18, 1995 of the Full Bench of the Kerala
High Court in writ appeal Nos. 416 and 187 of 1992. The Division Bench,
doubting the correctness of the judgment in Public Service Commission v.
Dr. Kanjamma Alex, (1981) KLT 24, (subject matter of CA No. 1197/ 81) had
referred the question to the Full Bench. Facts lie in a short compass and
are stated as under : The Full Bench in the impugned judgment held that though the appellant was
married according to the Canon Law, the appellant, being a Syrian Catholic
by birth, by marriage with a Latin Catholic (Backward Class), is not a
member of that class nor can she claim she status as a backward class by
marriage. The special provisions under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of" the
Constitution intended for the advancement of socially and educationally
backward classes of citizens cannot be defeated by including candidates by
alliance or by any other mode of joining the community. It would tantamount
to making a mockery of the constitutional exercise of identification of
socially and educationally backward classes of citizens. Accordingly, the
Full Bench overruled the decision of the Division Bench and of the single
Judge referred to hereinbefore. The appeal challenging the Division Bench
Judgement in respect of Dr. Kanjamma Alex, (Civil Appeal No. 1197/81) is
placed before us alongwith these appeals. The question is one of constitutional importance to harmonize the personal
law of the citizens and the constitutional goal, viz., to accord equal
opportunity to the disadvantaged social segments, envisaged in Articles
16(4) and 15(4) of the Constitution. Shri T.L.V. Iyer, learned senior
counsel for the appellant, contended that though the appellant is a Syrian
Catholic (a forward class) by birth and had voluntarily married J. Yesudas,
a Latin Catholic (Fishermen community), admittedly a backward class, she
had entered into the marital home of her husband in the year 1982 and was
received and recognised by the community as a member of the Latin Catholic,
Due to her marriage, she has subjected herself and suffered all the
environmental disabilities to which her husband, J. Yesudas, was subjected
and to which all other members of backward class in the region are
subjected to. She cannot therefore, be discriminated by denying equality
given by Article 16(4) of the Constitution. He elaborated the contention
arguing that birth by itself is not a determinative factor for claiming
protective discrimination given to the backward classes. Environmental and
social disabilities are also relevant factor to which the appellant had
volunteered by subjecting herself to them and that, therefore, she is
entitled to me same treatment as is available to the Latin Catholics
(Fishermen) to which she was transplanted by marriage according to Canon
Law. Therefore, the view of the Full Bench is not correct in law. He placed
strong reliance on the Judgment of this Court in Principal, Guntur Medical
College, Guntur v. K Mohan Rao , [1976] 3 SCR 1046 and N.E. Hero v. Jahan
Ara Jai Pal Singh, [1912] 3 SCR 361. Shri Nambiar, learned senior counsel on behalf of the respondents,
contended that Articles 16(4) and 15(4) are intended to remove handicaps
and disadvantages suffered by backward class citizens due to social and
educational backwardness like the members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes. Therefore, persons who by birth belong to Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes alone are entitled to the benefit of Articles 16(4) and 15(4). By marriage, adoption or any other device, viz...
by procuring false social status certificates, they are not eligible to
avail of protective discrimination for appointment to any office or to a
post under the State or admission in educational institution. What is
relevant is inadequacy of representation of that class into an office or
service under the State. The members belonging to that particular group
which is not adequately represented alone are entitled to avail of the
protective discrimination. The appellant, having had the advantage of
starting life as Syrian Catholic being born in forward class, though she
voluntarily married to a backward class citizen, cannot claim the status as
a backward class to avail, of protective discrimination unless she further
pleads and establishes that candidates like her suffered all the handicaps
and disadvantages having been born as backward class citizens or Scheduled
Castes or scheduled Tribes. Mere recognition of and acceptance by the
community, after her marriage is not relevant for the purpose of availing
of the benefit of Articles 16(4) and 15(4). Acceptance may be only for
recognition as a legally wedded wife of a backward class citizen and
nothing more. He distinguished the ratio of Mohan Rao 's case (supra)
contending that the parents of Mohan Rao initially belonged to the
Scheduled Castes but later they converted into Christianity. On
reconversion Mohan Rao was accepted to be a member of the Scheduled Castes
and, therefore, his admission as a reserved candidates was upheld by this
Court. The ratio therein cannot be extended to all the situations and has
to be confined to special facts established in that case . As to Hero case,
the submission was that it is not relevant for our purpose. The rival contentions give rise to the question of harmonising the conflict
between the persona! law and the constitutional animation behind Articles
16(4) and 15(4) of the Constitution, The concepts of "equality before law" In para 784 at page 717, it was further held .that reservation under Article 16(4) is not made in favour of a 'caste' but a backward class. Once
a caste satisfies the criteria of backwardness, it becomes a backward class
for the purpose of Article 16(4). Even that is not enough. It must further
be found that the backward class is not adequately represented in the
services of the State. It would, therefore, be for the authority
constituted under Article 340 or the appropriate authority to identify the
backward class eligible for entitlement under Article 16(4). It would thus
be seen that the Dalits, Tribes and identified backward classes of citizens
who are not adequately represented in a service or office under the State
are eligible to be considered under Article 16(1) read with Article 16 (4). Equally under Article 3.5(4) for admission in educational institutions and
in other programmes. The question, therefore, is : Whether a candidate, by marriage, adoption or
obtaining a false certificate of social status would be entitled to an
identification' as such member of the class for appointment to a post
reserved under Article 16(4) or for an admission in an educational
institution under Article 15(4)? In Kumari Madhuri Patil & Anr. v. Addl .
Commissioner, Tribal Development & Ors,, [1994] SCC 241, the appellants
were daughters of one Laxman Patil who was a Hindu Koly (forward class).
They obtained social status certificates as Mahadeo Koli, Scheduled Tribe
and were admitted into Medical college. When it was found that they
belonged to forward class, their admissions were cancelled and writ
petitions were dismissed culminating in the aforesaid judgment. This Court
had held that for the purpose of entitle-ment to admission under Article
15(4) , the identification by the President as a Scheduled Tribe under Article 342(1) subject to the law under Article 342(2} as amended by the
Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Amend-ment) Act 1976, is conclusive.
In other words, this Court had not accorded to a member of forward class,
by obtaining a false certificate the status of a Scheduled Tribe. Admission
given on the basis of false certificate was declared unconstitutional. Director of Tribunal Welfare, Government of Andhra Pradesh v. Laveti Giri &
Anr., JT (1995) 3 SC 684, is equally instructive. Therein, the father of
the respondent who was a Government servant obtained false certificate that
his son was a Scheduled Tribe and got the respondent admitted in
Engineering College, Father was a Kapu (a forward class in Andhra Pradesh)
and certificate obtained was as Konda Kapu, Scheduled Tribe. It was held
that the false claim by fraud played by the guardian disentitled the
candidate to the social status as a Schedule Tribe. In Telangana Region of Andhra Pradesh, Holva Community is a backward class.
They sought to obtain social status as Holva, a Scheduled Tribe. The
Collector issued memo to the Tahsildar not to issue certificate to them.
When validity of the memo was questioned, A.P. High Court in Andhra Holva
Society v. Union of India and Ors. , in Writ Petition No. 17011 of 1984
dated 28.2.1986 held that the class exodus of one class of citizens as
tribes on names of synonimity is impermissible. Similarly, Jangama
community/ backward class sought certificates as Scheduled Castes (Beda or
Budaga Jangama). The same High Court in P.Hallikarjunadev & Ors. v. Govt.,
of Andhra Pradesh , [1989] 3 A.L.T. 50, held that they are not entitled to
social status certificates. It would thus be clear that there are attempts
of transplan-tation of forward classes to backward classes. Instead of
integrated forward march, it is a retrograde reverse march from forward to
backward status to claim reservations. In A.S, Sailaja v, Kurnool Medical College . Kurnool & Ors., AIR (1986) A.P.
209, the petitioner, daughter of A.S. Radhakrishna, an advocate of Cuddapah
in Andhra Pradesh, had initially appeared for Common Entrance Examination
for 1984-85 for admission into medical College but failed. For the Common
Entrance Examination for 1985-86 she described herself to be daughter of
natural father Radhakrishna but in the application for admission made on
July 13, 1985, she claimed that she was adopted by one B. Sivaramaiah,
(Shepard), a backward class in Andhra Pradesh and sought admission on that
basis. She secured 417 marks out of 600 and when she claimed to be O.B.C.,
but was not given admission, she filed a writ petition in A.P. High Court
for direction to the College to admit her as a backward class group-D, The
High Court considered the inter-play of adoption under the Hindu Adoption
and maintenance Act, 1956 and the protective discrimination under Article
15(4). It held that the native endowments of men are by no means equal. The
mind of children brought up in culturally, educationally and economically
advanced atmosphere, is accounted highly as they are bound to start the
race of life with advantages. It would apparently have its inevitable
profound effect on the quality of the child born in that atmosphere. The
children born amongst backward classes would not start the race of life
with the same quality of life. It would, therefore, be necessary to
identify the competing interests between diverse sections of the society
and it is the duty of the Court to strike a balance between competing
claims of different interests. Citizens belonging to a group of backward
classes identified by the appropriate authority or the commission, as a
part of that class, fulfilling the traits of socially and educationally
backwardness among that group, would alone be eligible for admission as a
backward class citizens under Article 15(4). In that event, the Court
declined to go into the question whether such person is socially or
educationally backward which is an exclusive function of the
commission/authority appointed under Article 340 of the Constitution. But
any person who would attempt, by process of law and seeks to acquire the
status of such a backward class should satisfy that he/she suffered the
same handicaps or disadvantages due to social, educational and cultural
backwardness. A person born in upper caste and having early advantages of
education is not entitled to the benefit of Article 15(4). In that context,
it was held that caste will be one of the considerations along with other
factors applicable to homogeneous group of the people. A homogeneous group
together being identifying as a class for the purpose of Article 15(4) or
16(4) would become mockery. Therefore, it was held that the petitioner,
though by adoption became a member of the backward class, was not eligible
for admission into medical college under Article 15(4) since she did not
undergo any sufferings or disadvantages, handicaps or ignominy to which the
members of the homogeneous backward class are subjected to. It was further held that in interpreting the provisions of the Hindu
Adoption and Maintenance Act 1956, and the Constitution, the balance is to
be struck to maintain secularism and mobility of castes for national
integration ensuring inter-caste marriages or adoption from one caste to
another, allowing enough lee way for free mobility and integration of all
sections of the society as homogeneous group. At the same time, the Court
required to construe the provisions of the Act and the Constitution to
reconcile the right of the individual and the society's right, namely,
social justice. In writ petition No. 11914/85 (spouse of inter-caste
marriage) and Writ Petition No, 14875/85 (adoption of a backward class boy
to a Scheduled Tribe) disposed of on the same day, it was held in separate
judgment that they were not eligible for admission under Article 15(4) , In V.B. Rao v. Principal, Osmania Medical College , AIR (1986) A.P. 197, a
Velama (forward caste) was held not eligible for admission as Kappula
Velama (O.B.C.), In K. Shantha Kumar v. State of Mysore , (1971) 1 Mys. L.
J. 21; Nataraja v. Selection Committee, (1972) 1 Mys. L, J. 226 and R.
Srinivasa v. Chairman Selection Committee , AIR (1981) Karnataka 86, the
Karnataka High Court consistently had held that on adoption a boy,
belonging to a forward caste by a backward class citizen, is not entitled
to the benefit of reservation under Article 15(4). In Smt. D. Neelima v. The Dean of P.G, Studies, A.P, Agricultural
University, Hyderabad & Ors. , AIR 1993 A.P. 229, the appellant, a Reddy by
birth (Reddy caste is a forward caste in A.P.) married to Erukala boy
(basket weaving community, Scheduled Tribe in A.P.) was living in her
marital home since her marriage. She sought admission into M. Sc. (Home
Science) in Agricultural University as a Scheduled Tribe. She filed writ
petition for direction for admission. The learned single Judge dismissed
the writ petition holding that by "anuloma" marriage she was not entitled
to the same status as that of the tribe. In another writ petition No. 1313
of 1992, the petitioner lady born in a Vysya community (Business community)
was married to a Bestha (fishermen community - a backward class - A
category). She applied for admission into Post-Graduate Medical Course
(D.C.H.) under the quota reserved for Backward Class - A Group. Her writ
petition was allowed by a learned single Judge holding that a marriage was
not an agreement. It is a sacrament. After marriage she was no more a
member of her parents' family but became a member of her husband's family.
Therefore, she was entitled to be a member of the backward class. The
diverse views were challenged before the Division Bench which had held that
though on marriage the girls become members of their husbands' families
snapping all their ties from parental homes and acquire the status as a
Scheduled Tribe or backward class, they are not entitled, by virtue of
marriage, to the right to reservation envisaged under Article 15(4) of the
Constitution. Similar view was taken in Urmila Ginda v. Union of India , AIR
(1975) Delhi 115 and Mrs. Vaishali v. Union of India, (1978) 80 BLR 182,
wherein the Delhi and Bombay High Courts respectively had held that ladies
belonging to the upper caste married to the Scheduled Caste men were not
entitled to the reservation under Article 16(4). In Khazan Singh v. Union
of India, AIR 1980 Delhi 60 a single Judge of the Delhi High Court had held
that on adoption of a jat boy into Scheduled Caste family, he became
entitled to the benefit of reservation under Section 16(4). The Constitution seeks to establish secular socialist democratic republic
in which every citizen has equality of status and of opportunity, to
promote among the people dignity of the individual, unity and integrity of
the nation transcending them from caste, sectional, religious barriers
fostering fraternity among them in an integrated Bharat. The emphasis,
therefore, is on a citizen to improve excellence and equal status and
dignity of person. With the advancement of human rights and constitutional
philosophy of social and economic democracy in a democratic polity to all
the citizens on equal footing, secularism has been held to be one of the
basic features of the Constitution (Vide : S.R. Bommai v. Union of India ,
(1994) 3 SCC 1 and egalitarian social order is its foundation. Unless free
mobility of the people is allowed transcending sectional, caste, religious
or regional barriers, establishment of secular socialist order becomes
difficult. In State of Karnataka v, Appu Balu Ingale & Ors. , AIR (1993) SC
1126 this Court has held in paragraph 34 that judiciary acts as a bastion
of the freedom and of the rights of the people. The Judges are participants
in the living stream of national life, steering the law between the dangers
of rigidity and formlessness in the seemless web of life. Judge must be a
jurist endowed with the legislator's wisdom, historian's search for truth,
prophet's vision, capacity to respond to the needs of the present,
resilience to cope with the demands of the future to decide objectively,
disengaging himself/herself from every personal influence or predilections.
The Judges should adapt purposive interpretation of the dynamic concepts
under the Constitution and the act with its interpretive armoury to
articulate the felt necessities of the time. Social legislation is not a
document for fastidious dialects but means of ordering the life of the
people. To construe law one must enter into its spirit, its setting and
history. Law should be capable to expand freedom of the people and the
legal order can weigh with utmost equal care to provide the underpinning of
the highly inequitable social order. Judicial review must be exercised with
insight into social values to supplement the changing social needs. The
existing social inequalities or imbalances are required to be removed re-
adjusting the social order through rule of law. In that case, the need for
protection of right to take water, under the civil Rights Protection Act ,
and the necessity to uphold the constitutional mandate of abolishing
untouchability and its practice in any form was emphasised,

Usha M, Apte in her "The Sacrament of Marriage in Hindu Society from Vedic
period to Dharmsastras" (1978 Ed.) stated at page 13 that inter-caste
marriages were prevalent in the period of Rig Veda. She quoted thus : From the Brahmanas and the Upanishads, she also quoted at page 41 thus : At page 189 she stated that although the Sastrakaras accept the inter-caste
marriage of anuloma type, certainly they did not approve of it. To them
such marriages led to inter-mixture of Varnas which could lead to social
chaos. She pleaded for simplification of the marriage rights and avoidance
of waste of money and material. In "Hindu Law of Marriage and Stridhana" by G. Banerjee, 2nd Edition 1896,
it has been stated at pages 68-69 that by inter-caste marriages among
Brahmans, Kshatriyas, Vaisyas and Sudras, which were allowed in Vedic
period, there arose a number of mixed classes, which have been treated in
the 10th Chapter of Manu; and further, by a division of the Sudras
according to their occupations, there arose a number or sub-castes; such
being the nature and origin of caste, the prohibition of inter-marriage
applies only with reference to the four primary castes, and was
inapplicable to sub-divisions of the Sudra caste. Quoting from Pardaiya
Telaver v. Puli Telaver, 1 Mad. 478 from the judgment of Scotland, C.J., it
was concluded that the general law applicable to all classes or tribes does
not seem opposed to marriage between individuals of different sects or
divisions of the same class or tribe, and even as regards the marriage
between individuals of a different class or tribe, the law appears to be no
more than directory. Although it recommends and inculcates a marriage with
a woman of equal class as a preferable description, yet the marriage of a
man with a woman of a lower class or tribe than himself appears not to be
an invalid marriage, rendering the issue illegitimate. Dr. Paras Diwan in his 2nd Edition of "Law of Marriage and Divorce" stated
at page 75 that in inter-caste and inter-sect marriages in anuloma form a
male of superior caste marries a female of inferior caste; and in pratiloma
marriage a male of inferior caste marries a female of superior caste.
During British Raj, pratiloma marriage came to be considered as invalid and
obsolete but anuloma marriage was held valid. Customary inter-caste
marriages were held valid. They were performed under Special Marriages Act,
1872, The Arya Marriages Validation Act, 1937 permitted performance of both
anuloma and pratiloma marriages under the auspices of the Arya Samaj.
Inter-sub-caste marriages were validated under the Hindu Marriage (Removal
of Disabilities) Act, 1946. The Hindu Marriage Validity Act, 1949 permitted
performance of both forms of inter-caste marriages. Under the Hindu
Marriage Act, 1955 inter-caste marriages among all castes are valid as
under the Act marriage between any two Hindus is valid one. At page 76 he
stated that under Muslim law inter-sect marriages between Muslims belonging
to different sects or schools are valid. The Christian Marriage Act permitted marriage between Roman Catholics and Protestants. Among Parsis
there are no sects or denominations. It would thus be clear that in Hindu
social order, the prohibition of inter-caste marriage and looking down upon
the progeny born to such inter-caste couple resulted in shunning the inter-
caste marriages as a social mobility and resulted in rigidity in social
structure. The Hindu Marriage Act has done away with that rigidity and made
valid the inter-caste marriages. Section 7A of the Hindu Marriage Act
introduced an amendment in the State of Tamil Nadu providing that marriages
made between any two Hindus in any form solemnised in the presence of
relatives, friends or other persons in a simplified form are a valid
marriage; and by statutory operation of sub-section (2), such marriage's
held earlier to the commencement of Hindu Marriages Madras Amendment Act
1957 are to be regarded as good and valid in law, doing away with any
customary practice or usages to be mandatory. The Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1957
came into force with effect from January 20, 1968. The Constitution through its Preamble, Fundamental Rights and Directive
Principles created secular State based on the principle of equality and
non-discrimination striking a balance between the rights of the individuals
and the duty and commitment of the State to establish an egalitarian social
order. Dr. K.M. Munshi contended on the floor of the Constituent Assembly
that "we want to divorce religion from personal law, from what may be
called social relations, or from the rights of parties as regards
inheritance or succession. What have these things got to do with religion,
I fall to understand? We are in a stage where we must unify and consolidate
the nation by every means without interfering with religious practices. If,
how-ever, in the past, religious practices have been so construed as to
cover the whole field of life, we have reached a point when we must put our
foot down and say that these matters are not religion, they are purely
matters for secular legislation. Religion must be restricted to spheres
which legitimately appertain to religion, and the rest of life must be
regulated, unified and modified in such a manner that we may evolve, as
early as possible, a strong and consolidated nation" (Vide : Constituent
Assembly Debates, Vol. VII 356-8). In the onward march of establishing an egalitarian secular social order
based on equality and dignity of person, Article 15(1) prohibits
discrimination on grounds of religion or caste identities so as to foster
national identity which does not deny pluralism of Indian culture but
rather to preserve it. Indian culture is a product or blend of several
strains or elements derived from various sources, in spite of
inconsequential variety of forms and types. There is unity of spirit
informing Indian culture throughout the ages. It is this underlying unity
which is one of the most remarkable everlasting and enduring feature of
Indian culture that fosters unity in diversity among different populace.
This generates and fosters cordial spirit and toleration that make possible
the unity and continuity of Indian traditions. Therefore, it would be the
endeavour of everyone to develop several identities which constantly
interact and overlap, and prove a meeting point for all members of
different religious communities, castes, sections, sub-sections and regions
to promote rational approach to life and society and would establish a
national composite and cosmopolitan culture and way of life. Arun Shourie in his "Religion in Politics", 1986 stated thus at pages
332-33 : to mean "any distinction, exclusion or restriction made on the basis bf sex
which has the effect or purpose of impairing or nullifying the recognized
enjoyment or exercise by women, irrespective of their marital status, on
the basis of equality of men and women, all human rights and fundamental
freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or any other
field." Article 2(b) enjoins upon the State parties, while condemning
discrimination against women in all its forms, to pursue, by appropriate
means, without delay, elimination of discrimination against women by
adopting "appropriate legislative and other measures including sanctions
where appropriate prohibiting all discriminations against women; to take
all appropriate measures including legislation, to modify or abolish
existing laws, regulations, customs and practices which constitute
discrimination against women. Clause C enjoins upon the State to ensure
legal protection of the rights of women on equal basis with men, through
constituted national tribunals and other public institutions against any
act of discrimination to provide effective protection to women,. Article 3 enjoins upon the State parties that it shall take, in all fields, in
particular, in the political social , economic and cultural fields, all
appropriate measures including legislation to ensure full development and
advancement of women for the purpose of guaranteeing them the exercise and
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms on the basis of equality
with men. Article 13 states that "the State parties shall take all
appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women in other
areas of economic and social life in order lo ensure, on a basis of
equality of men and women". The Parliament has enacted the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 . Section 2(b) defines "human rights" to mean "the rights relating to life,
liberty, equality and dignity of the individual guaranteed by the
Constitution, embodied in the international conventions and enforceable by
courts in India". Thereby, the principles embodied in CEDAW and the
concomitant right to development became integral part of the Constitution
of India and the Human Rights Act and became enforceable. Section 12 of the
Protection of Human Rights Act charges the commission with duty for proper
implementation as well as prevention of violation of the human rights and
fundamental freedoms. Though the Government of India kept its reservations on Articles 5(e) ,
16(1). 16(2) and 29 of CIDAW, they bear little consequence in view of the
fundamental rights in Article 15(1) and (3) and Article 21 and the
directive principles of the Constitution. It would thus be seen that the institution of marriage is one of the sound
social institutions to bring harmony arid integration is social fabric. The
Shastric law among Hindus has undergone sea change, in the rigidity of
Shastric prescriptions. In relation to intestate succession of property,
marriage, adoption and maintenance among Hindus, they are brought under
statutory operation appropriately underpinning the rigid shastric
prohibitions, restrictions to operate in harmony with Universal Declaration
of Human Rights and constitutional rights. The right to divorce which is
unknown to Hindu law is made feasible and an irretrievable breakdown of the
marriage is made a ground so as to enable the couple to seek divorce by
mutual consent. The Hindu Marriage Act, 1956 and Special Marriage Act, 1954 made the marriage between persons belonging to different castes and
religions as valid marriage. Even local amendments in Section 7A to the Hindu Marriage Act, 1956 like in Tamil Nadu, removed the rigidity of
celebrating the marriages in accordance with shastric prescription like
Kanyadan and Saptapadhi being not mandatory, recognised social marriage as
valid. Right to maintenance from the divorced husband is provided under the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956 and Section 125 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 so long as she remains unmarried. Under Hindu
Minority and Maintenance Act, she is entitled to maintenance from father-
in-law. Similar gender equality is available to other citizens consistent
with Human Rights and under Article 15(3) of the constitution. The march of
law lays emphasis on the rights of the individual for equality. The form of
marriages is relegated to backdoor as unessential. These are matters of
belief and practice and not core content. Tying Tali is a must and without
it marriage is not complete in South India among all Hindus and in some
parts among Harijan Christians, while exchange of rings would do in North
India. Ritualistic celebration of marriage would be considered by some as
valid, while most people in other sections think that factum of marriage is
enough. When in Tamil Nadu such marriage is statutorily, valid would it
become invalid in other parts of the country? The answer would, obviously
and emphatically be, "NO". Inter-caste marriages and adoption are two
important social institutions through which secularism would find its
fruitful and solid base for an egalitarian social order under the
Constitution. Therefore, due recognition should be accorded for social
mobility and integration and accordingly its recognition must be upheld as
valid law. It is well settled law from Mussumat Bhoobun Moyee Debia v. Ramkishore
Achari Chowdhary, (1865) 10 MIA 279 that judiciary recognised a century and
half ago that a husband and wife are one under Hindu law, and so long as
the wife survives, she is half of the husband. She is 'Sapinda' of her
husband as held in Lallu Bhoy v. Cassibai, (1979-80) 7 IA 212. It would,
therefore, be clear that be it either under the Canon law or the Hindu law,
on marriage wife becomes an integral part of husband's marital home
entitled to equal status of husband as a member of the family. Therefore,
the lady, on marriage, becomes a member of the family and thereby she
becomes a member of the caste to which she moved. The caste rigidity breaks
down and would stand no impediment to her becoming a member of the family
to which the husband belongs and she gets herself transplanted. The immediate question arises : Whether recognition of the community is a
pre-condition? Though it was consistently held that recognition is a
circumstance to be taken into consideration, marriage being personal right
of the spouses they are entitled to live, after marriage openly to the
knowledge of all the members of the community or locality in which they
live and by such living they acquire married status. In the light of the
constitutional philosophy of social integrity and national unity, right to
equality assured by the human rights and the Constitution of India, on
marriage of a man and a woman, they become members of the family and are
entitled to the social status as married couple, recognition per se is not
a pre-condition but entitled to be considered, when evidence is available.
It is common knowledge that with education or advance of economic status,
young men and women marry against the wishes of parents and in many a case
consent or recognition would scarcely be given by either or both the
parties or parents of both spouses. Recognition by family or community is
not a pre-condition for married status. However, the question is : Whether a lady marrying a Scheduled Caste,
Scheduled Tribe or OBC citizen, or one transplanted by adoption or any
other voluntary act, ipso facto, becomes entitled to claim reservation
under Article 15(4) or 16(4), as the case may be? It is seen that Dalits
and Tribes suffered social and economic disabilities recognised by Articles
17 and 15(2). Consequently, they became socially, culturally and
educationally backward; the OBCs also suffered social and educational
backwardness. The object of reservation is to remove these handicaps,
disadvantages, sufferings and restrictions to which the members of the
Dalits or Tribes or OBCs were subjected to and was sought to bring them in
the mainstream of the nation's life by providing them opportunities and
facilities,

In Murlidhar Dayandeo Kesekar v. Vishwanath Pandu, IT ( 1995) 3 SC 563 and
R. Chandevarappa v. State of Karnataka, IT (1995) 7 SC 93, this Court had
held that economic empowerment is a fundamental right to the poor and the
State is enjoined under Articles 15(3) , 46 and 39 to provide them
opportunities. Thus, education, employment and economic empowerment are
some of the programmes, the State has evolved and also provided reservation
in admission into educational institutions, or in case of other economic
benefits under Articles 15(4) and 46 , or in appointment to an office or a
post under the State under Article 16(4). Therefore, when a member is
transplanted into the Dalits, Tribes and OBCs. he/she must of necessity
also undergo have had same the handicaps, and must have been subject to the
same disabilities, disadvantages, indignities or sufferings so as to
entitle the candidate to avail the facility of reservation. A candidate who
had the advantageous start in life being born in forward caste and had
march of advantageous life but is transplanted in backward caste by
adoption or marriage or conversion, does not become eligible to the benefit
of reservation either under Article 15(4) or 16(4), as the case may be.
Acquisition of the Status of Scheduled Caste etc. by voluntary mobility
into these categories would play fraud on the Constitution, and would
frustrate the benign constitutional policy under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution. Further question is : Whether recognition by the community, as is envisaged
by law and expressly recognised by this Court in Mohan Rao 's case would
give the benefit of reservation? In that case,, parents of Mohan Rao
originally belonged to a Scheduled Caste in A.P. Mohan Rao became a
Christian but reconverted into Hinduism and claimed the status as a
Scheduled Caste. The Constitution Bench had held that by reconversion, he
could not become a Hindu but recognition by the community is a pre-
condition. In that case, it was found that caste/community had recognised
him after reconversion as a member of the Scheduled Caste, In Kailash
Sonkar 's case (supra), this Court, in the context of election law,
considered the question of reconversion into Hindu fold. On conversion to a
Christianity or any other religion, the convertee would lose the said
caste. Where a person belonging to the Scheduled Caste is converted to
Christianity or Islam, the same involves loss of the caste unless the
religion to which he is converted is liberal enough to permit the convertee
to retain his caste or the family law by which he was originally governed.
Where the new religion does not at all accept or believe in the caste
system, the loss of the caste would be final and complete. In South India,
if a person converts from Hindu religion to other religion, the original
caste, without violating the tenants of the new order to which he has gone,
as a matter of common practice continues to exist from times immemorial. If
a person abjures his old religion and converts to a new one, there is no
loss of caste. However, where the convertee exhibits by his actions and
behaviour his clear intention of abjuring the new religion, on his own
volition without any persuasion and is not motivated by any benefits or
gain; the community of the old order to which the convertee originally
belonged, is gracious enough to admit him to the original caste either
expressly or by necessary intendment; and rules of the new order permit the
convertee to join the new caste, on reconversion his original caste revives
and he becomes a member of that caste. However, this Court had held that
"in our opinion the main test should be a genuine intention of the
reconvert to abjure his new religion and completely dissociate himself from
it. We must hasten to add here that this does not mean that the
reconversion should be only a ruse or a pretest or a cover to gain mundane
worldly benefits so that the reconversion becomes merely a show for
achieving a particular purpose whereas the real intention may be shrouded
in mystery. The reconvert must exhibit a clear and genuine intention to go
back to his old fold and adopt the customs and practices of the said fold
without any protest from members of his erstwhile caste." In that case it
was held from his conduct, the respondent established that she by her
conduct became a member of the community entitled to contest the elections
as a Scheduled Caste. In Mohan Rao 's case (supra), this court found as a
fact that after conversion he was Accepted as a member of the Dalits by the
community. Similar are the facts in Hero case (supra). In C.M. Arumugam v.
S. Rajagopal & Ors. , [1976] 1 SCC 863, this Court did not accept
reconversion, though Rajagopal proclaimed by conduct of his becoming a
member of Scheduled Caste and his relations treated him as a member of
Dalits. In Hero case also the respondent was recognised as a member of the
Scheduled Tribe. Further in election law the compulsion of political party
nominating a candidate and voters' verdict may be looked into. In Soosai v.
Union of India , AIR (1986) SC 733, Bhagwati, C.J. speaking for a three
Judge Bench held that non-recognition of Scheduled Caste Christians as
Dalits was not violative of Article 14 as by reason of conversion they were
not similarly handicapped as Dalits. In Madhuri 's case and Laveti Giri's
case, this Court directed procedure for issuance of social status
certificates. As a part of it, the officer concerned should also verify, as
a fact, whether a convert has totally abjured his old faith and adopted, as
a fact, the new faith; whether he suffered all the handicaps as a Dalit or
tribe; whether conversion is only a ruse to gain constitutional benefits
under Article 15(4) or 16(4); and whether the community has in fact
recognised his conversion and treated him as a member of the community and
then issue such a certificate. The recognition of the appellant as a member of the Latin Catholic would
not therefore, be relevant for the purpose of her entitlement to the
reservation under Article 16(4) , for the reason that she, as a member of
the forward caste, had an advantageous start in life and after her
completing education and becoming major married Yesudas; and so. she is not
entitled to the facility of reservation given to the Latin Catholic, a
backward class. The learned single Judge and the Division Bench in Dr. Kunjamma's case
proceeded solely on basis of Canon Law, celebration of the marriage in
accordance with Latin Catholic rites and acceptance of her as member of
that community. Unfortunately they did not advert to the constitutional
mandate adverted to hereinbefore. Consequently, the learned single Judge
and the Division Bench did not correctly decide the law. Equally, in Khazan
Singh's case the learned single Judge of the Delhi High Court too did not
lay the law correctly. The Full Bench, for the aforesaid reasons, had
rightly concluded that the appellant is not entitled to the benefit of
reservation under Article 16(4) as a lecturer which post was reserved for
the backward class Latin Catholic community. The appeals are accordingly dismissed. The orders of the Division Bench and
the single Judge stand set aside. The Full Bench judgment stands confirmed
but, in the circumstances, parties are directed to bear their own costs
throughout. Consequent upon dismissal of C.A. Nos. 3163-64 of 1995 as above, this
appeal is allowed.