SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Opinion: Sadly, it may probably take the rape/assault of a high-profile celebrity or their kid to really get the change the justice system needs.
DATE: 2018-04-15
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8cb4yl/opinion_sadly_it_may_probably_take_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

EDIT: For the foolish people who would misinterpret this, I am NOT advocating that they should be assaulted, I would never wish that on anyone; I am only SPECULATING as to what would happen if they were.
-------
----

I was thinking - whenever these rape cases happen, the most that happens is that people get riled up and vocal for a while, but nothing really changes. Be it the 2012 Nirbhaya case- with a lot of protests- or recently, with Unnao and Kathua (which had few protests, but a lot of online backlash) - the most that happens is that people do is vent and rage, and they feel powerless because it is the government that everyone is waiting on. The cases keep coming and going, and nothing about them really gets done. In a society like India, where people are inherently considered unequal and worth has to be proven, power is everything- weak people are sadly trampled on, and everyone bows at the feet of the powerful. So when someone powerful decides to take a stand on something, people notice.

So who are the most powerful people in society but celebrities? Not necessarily your 2nd or 3rd tier ones, but high-profilers like SRK, Salman Khan, Aishwarya -etc; people who are well-connected and visible, the untouchable staples of the industry. 

The good thing - for them- is that their very social power ensures that the average man won't touch them. The masses idolize and worship them. But what happens when the underprivileged people get pushed too far? When the public hears about rape cases every day, and their very political parties become more and more hardlined and blatantly cheating them, and right-wing groups like the Bajrang Dal self-police the streets, the national mindset becomes more tense. People become a bit more stressed.

Like a pressure or rice cooker, the steam that builds up at the bottom eventually has to channel its way to the top, where it lets loose with a strong whistle. Push a desperate man into a corner, and he will naturally lash out to create the loudest effect for someone to hear him. Eventually, even the fear of consequences won't deter a tortured soul from plotting to attack someone high-profile.

And it wouldn't take much. For example, 3 of the top celebrities- the Khans - are all Muslim. Even if they were to make a harmless comment on the relations between Hindus and Muslims, it may easily enrage the ticking time-bomb that are the Hindu nationalist groups. They already have militant-like training camps for youth, they already stop trucks and beat the drivers if they are found to transport cows...what is stopping them from taking further action? And far from deterring attacking even a beloved Khan, they might well take it as a challenge and embrace it strengthening their sense of purpose- to self-righteously show to India that even a Khan is powerless before their ideals.

And when something like that does happen, that high-profile celebrity, plus the millions of fans they have, will be on the warpath. And since Bollywood and celebrities are such a tight-knit group, if something happens to one, most likely everyone will come to support them because they realize that the same assault could happen to their families and so they want to see real justice done - it has become personal now. With a united voice they will probably end up voicing their outrage on every news channel they can, demanding justice, even meeting with politicians and maybe even bribing them to speed up or change the laws (not saying that's a good thing, but possible). They can single-handedly lead protests and march, and due to their popularity, even politicians would be hard-pressed to stop them. An enraged top-tier celebrity, who can channel a personal wound into a long-term cause, could probably single-handedly change laws by the sheer force of their social power.

Of course, this won't change the root cause of the rapes, which is embedded in the self-esteem/sexual repression issue of the society itself, but at least it will ensure a change in the justice system.