SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: r/india, need your help/advice!
DATE: 2017-08-13
SCORE: 39
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6tff09/rindia_need_your_helpadvice/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, to cut a long story short, a while back (around 2012/2013), while I was still in college, my parents got scammed by Country Vacations/Country Club Hyd. You can skip the backstory part if you are aware of what they do.

**BACKSTORY
**

What typically happens is some people standing outside many malls and other public places ask you to fill a lucky draw form. If you do, after a few days, you will get a call saying "you are the lucky winner! please come collect your prize!" (it will be a dinner set). Once you arrive at the place they tell you, you are made to attend a "short" presentation before the "prize distribution" and the folks tell you that you've won the opportunity of a lifetime:just for you they are offering CC membership at lowest rate plus hundreds of benefits like international travel, can transfer anytime if you don't need, 24 hours service, blah blah, you can cancel anytime and get full refund, you get free plot too, recognized by Govt, blah blah (they'll even produce fake papers from what I've learned from others who fell into this scam). Phones are to be turned off during this period and somehow or the other with a lot of social pressure, these sales agents manipulate you into signing up for this "membership". They'll bring an agreement form which contains none of the things mentioned by the sales agent (they'll say this is just the initial form and the main form with all benefits blah blah will be sent to address) and other crafty excuses such that an ordinary person will be led to believe that they are speaking truth. 

Unfortunately, my parents got caught in their trap. They do not know much and could not reach me at the time. They signed up for a 75kmembership (no plot included in this plan), 20k of which was paid using Debit card. On the very same night, I checked about this on internet and found that this company isn't to be trusted. We called them to get the membership cancelled but they said can't be done, you can bring even the PM. After researching a bit about it, I send a cancellation email to all their email addresses within 1-2 days. You can read the points I mentioned in that here: http://imgur.com/a/iOPks

Immediately parents got call next day (no response on email, they want to avoid all written communication it seems) saying they accepted the cancellation but money will not be refunded.
Went around with parents trying to get the transaction cancelled and stuff but banks weren't cooperative and owing to college and my parents not knowing much, we were prepared to stomach a 20K loss, thinking the matter was now closed (quite foolish now that I look back at it). A few days later, we lost the copy of the agreement paper they sent us, contacted them they said they can send another copy (which never arrived). We still used to get SMS promotional messages but didn't think much of it as it was automated. Plus, they have scammed countless others, in Consumer Court there are 2-3 cases running daily and multiple times they have been in news with the consumer winning (a recent one for example- (http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Hyderabad/Country-Vacations-told-to-refund-membership-fee-to-customer/article14407107.ece)) so I didn't think much about them.

**THE ISSUE
**

Fast forward to now (about 4-5 years!), they are now sending SMS messages, calling us and a registered post that "you owe us the rest of the money (i.e Membership of 75L, paid only 20k, so you pay 55k)." Parents are worried, financial situation is tight and we are not that rich and I have recently started pursuing Mtech in a local college so I still don't have much time to devote to this, parents are clueless so I will need to guide them.

A few questions for those here who are lawyers/experience in such cases, please answer my below queries. I will really appreciate it if you can let me know my legal options at this stage.

1. We haven't used the service at all from the date of purchase till now. Just because they have written a one-sided contract and got it signed, does that mean they are still entitled to the remaining amount? We are not concerned about refund of the 20k at this point, just want to end this harassment.

2. It's a holiday membership where if the amount is not paid the membership should ideally be cancelled (or so I think). Can they legally ask to pay complete amount when I have sent them cancellation request and haven't utilized services? Plus, it seems their agreement was full of holes (please check my email points for more info).

3. What are my chances if I take them to consumer court?Cancellation email was sent to their email addresses within 10 days of signing, haven't utilized any of their services, have collected various news articles on verdicts in their cases, Bad stuff is that copy of agreement papers signed by us was misplaced (they said they will send copy but it didnt come), no record of their earlier calls from that time and a lot of time has passed (4+ yrs).

4. What in your opinion would be the best way to proceed?

tl;dr: Well known "scam" Vacations company asking us for remaining amt of "membership", didn't process cancellation request but verbally just informed us, we haven't utilized services, what should be done?