1. This suit has been filed by a company against one Gurdeep
 Kaushik for money on the ground of loss of business and mental
 torture etc. 2. The case pleaded is that plaintiff is a reputed company and Digitally signed had hired the defendant Gurdeep Kaushik as Assistant Manager at a
RAKESH by RAKESH
 KUMAR SINGH
KUMAR Date: towards salary. Defendant has also tarnished the image and
 reputation of plaintiff in the market. Finally the plaintiff has
 approached the court for recovery of Rs.15,46,242/- from the Digitally signed RAKESH by RAKESH
 KUMAR SINGH
KUMAR Date: 4. When the matter was put up for evidence, plaintiff side
 examined Mahinderjeet Singh Khurana as PW-1 who was cross-
 examined on behalf of the defendant, Ashish Kumar Singh as PW-2
 was also cross-examined on behalf of the defendant. When the
 evidence of plaintiff was closed, defendant was given opportunity to
RAKESH by Digitally signed RAKESH lead evidence. He did not take any steps and therefore a cost was
 KUMAR SINGH
KUMAR Date: 5. We can take up the issues for consideration. Both the issues
 relate to entitlement of plaintiff regarding recovery of principal
 amount and recovery of interest and therefore they can be taken up
 together. 6. The case is revolving around the fact that defendant had
 committed malpractices by gathering information from the plaintiff
 and either distorting the facts before tender allotting authorities or
 sharing the information with competitors and favoring them,
 thereby the defendant caused loss to the plaintiff as the plaintiff lost

RAKESH by Digitally signed RAKESH several clients and projects. It is on that count that the plaintiff has
 KUMAR SINGH
KUMAR Date: 7. Clearly the plaintiff was required firstly to show that it had a
 fair chance to obtain the tenders from the government authorities.
 The plaintiff has however not produced any material to establish
 that it had a fair chance to obtain such government tender. The
 plaintiff ought to have summoned records from government
 departments who floated tenders so as to show the specification,
 nature and other details alongwith amount of awarded company.
 Thereafter the plaintiff would have shown that it had formulated
 specific plan for such tender including quotation of price. Thereafter
 the plaintiff could have shown similarity or difference between its
 proposal and the proposal of company which was awarded with
 tender. It is only in that scenario that the plaintiff could have
 claimed that it was having a fair chance to succeed in the tender but
 due to misadventure of defendant, the plaintiff could not succeed in
 obtaining the tender. However the plaintiff has not done any such
 thing and only examined Mahinderjit Singh Khurana (Manager) and
 Ashish Kumar Singh (Manager) in evidence. Both the witnesses are
 from the plaintiff company. They could not and they have not
 established anything regarding the proceeding of government
 authorities for awarding tender. They have simply deposed on the Digitally signed line of averments made in the plaint. RAKESH by RAKESH
 KUMAR SINGH
KUMAR Date: 8. The plaintiff was also required to establish that defendant
 committed some misadventure during the course of employment.
 During the cross-examination, PW-1 Mahinderjeet Singh Khurana
 stated that defendant had leaked the data to one Ambala based
 dealer namely AIMCO. No person however from such dealer i.e.
 AIMCO has been called in evidence. The plaintiff could have
 summoned any such person as witness under Order 16 CPC with the
 help of court summons and in case of necessities, it could have put
 leading questions under Section 154 of Evidence Act. Nothing has
 been done on behalf of the plaintiff. The claim remains a bare claim
 that defendant had leaked the data. 9. Apart from the aforesaid, PW-1 accepts that tenders in the
 government is done as per set rules and procedure. Following
 extract from the cross-examination of PW-1 is relevant:- 10. So far as PW-2 Ashish Kumar Singh is concerned, his cross
 examination also shows that tender of plaintiff company was
 accepted as well as rejected and that the tender process goes through
 various stages and cannot be influenced by the bidder. In such
 circumstances, it could not be said that only because of the
 defendant, the tender of plaintiff was rejected. PW-2 further states in
 the cross-examination that AIMCO and plaintiff had applied for
 same tender but AIMCO succeeded. However PW-2 has not even
 provided the date of bidding regarding those projects. No material
 has been brought to show specific reason for rejection of tender of
 the plaintiff or success of tender of AIMCO. Therefore, defendant
 cannot be solely blamed. 11. The aforesaid shows that neither of the witnesses produced by
 the plaintiff can either establish the bidding, specification for bid,
 specification of competitor company, reason for rejection or success
 in the government bid. They also cannot establish that it was the
 defendant due to whom bid of plaintiff was rejected. There is no
 claim that prior to the defendant joining the plaintiff company, their
 bid was regularly accepted and it started getting rejection only after
 involvement of the defendant. Rather PW-2 accepts that bid of
 plaintiff was rejected as well as accepted. PW-1 has also stated that
 bids of plaintiff were rejected also before joining of defendant. In
 Digitally signed such circumstances, the court holds that plaintiff has failed to
RAKESH by RAKESH
 KUMAR SINGH
KUMAR Date: 12. Interestingly plaintiff has claimed to have suffered a loss of
 more than Rs.5 Crores. No details of such loss has been provided by
 the plaintiff in the plaint or in the evidence affidavit of witnesses.
 The plaintiff has restricted its claim to Rs. 11 Lacs out of so called
 Rs.5 Crores. This is highly doubtful. No company can allow itself to
 loose significant amount and to claim only partial amount out of
 loss. Rs.11 Lacs is rather insignificant in comparison of Rs.5 Cores.
 Plaintiff has not produced any board resolution of the company to
 show that it was inclined to restrict claim to Rs.11 Lacs despite the
 loss of rupees more than Rs.5 Crore. This itself shows that the entire
 claim of loss of Rs.5 Crores is unbelievable. Then the plaintiff in the
 plaint has also claimed recovery of Rs.4,46,242/- which it had given
 to the defendant as remuneration. The defendant has worked for a
 particular period in the plaintiff company and received the
 remuneration for the same. Our Constitution recognizes that there
 should not be any kind of bonded labour system. Therefore if the
 defendant was engaged by the plaintiff, he was entitled to receive
 remuneration. Whether his work was satisfactory or not cannot
 entitle the plaintiff to recover the remuneration for the period during
 which the defendant was working in the company. The claim made
 by the plaintiff is completely preposterous and cannot be accepted at
 all. Clearly neither of the amount i.e. Rs.11 Lacs or Rs.4,46,242/- is
 recoverable by the plaintiff company. 13. Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff has made a claim that
 irrespective of any type of loss, nominal damage must be given as
 the defendant had contravened his appointment terms. He pointed
 out the clause no.9 of appointment letter. This clause indicates that
 defendant shall not engage in any service, other business,
 profession. Ld. Counsel has argued that during the service, the
 defendant was in touch with other company. He has relied upon
 copy of emails downloaded from the defendant's laptop. This court
 is of the view that none of the emails even remotely shows that the
 defendant was engaged as a professional with any other company.
 They simply show communication between defendant and some
 other company but it cannot be ruled out that the same was done on
 behalf of plaintiff company. No attached document of any email has
 been produced by the plaintiff. Clause 9 does not bar a
 communication with other company but it really bars engagement as
 a professional. The plaintiff has failed to establish the same. Apart
 from this, the emails have been produced through PW-1 and he has
 given certificate under Section 65B of Evidence Act. When the
 email was sent, the laptop was in the custody of defendant and not
 in the custody of PW-1 and therefore obviously he could not have
 given any assurance about authenticity of such email. At best, he
 can depose about printing of email but the same is not sufficient.
 The plaintiff ought to have summoned a person from the concerned
 company to establish that such email was received to them. In the
 absence of clear proof, I am unable to grant even a nominal damage
 Digitally signed under Section 73 of Contract Act.
RAKESH by RAKESH
 KUMAR SINGH
KUMAR 2025.04.29
 Date: 14. One ancillary point needs to be mentioned. The suit has been
filed for breach of agreement, loss to business, causing mental
torture and harassment and tarnishing the image and reputation of
the plaintiff company. This court is of the view that though a
company has a separate legal existence but it cannot claim mental
torture or harassment. So far as tarnishing the image and reputation
is concerned, no material has been brought to show that image of
company was very high in the eyes of general public and in the eyes
of business world or that it was lowered on account of any act of the
defendant. Therefore no cause of action was available to the
plaintiff on this count. 15. In view of the above discussion, it is held that plaintiff is not
entitled to claim any amount from the defendant and therefore there
can also not be any question of interest. The suit is dismissed.
Decree be prepared accordingly.