On Friday the Supreme Court refused to entertain a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the Aadhaar ordinance brought by the centre in February, PTI reported . The court asked the petitioners to first approach a high court with their plea. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, arguing for the petitioners, claimed the matter was of national importance as it would have a pan-India effect, the PTI report said. But the court said that it was not deciding anything about the merits of the case and simply wanted the view of a high court.

JUST IN: Supreme Court declines to entertain petitions challenging constitutional validity of the Aadhaar and Other Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019. Court asks petitioners to approach High Court. pic.twitter.com/zoBpb37uDh

— The Leaflet (@TheLeaflet_in) April 5, 2019

Last September the Supreme Court ruled that Aadhaar was constitutionally valid but specified a host of services for which it could not be made mandatory. It deemed Aadhaar necessary for a PAN card, income tax returns, and availing welfare schemes and subsidies from the government, but said it could not be made mandatory for such things as opening a bank account, buying a SIM card, school admissions, and appearing for the CBSE, UGC and NEET examinations.

But in February , the Union Cabinet approved the promulgation of the Aadhaar ordinance, which would allow private companies to use Aadhaar for authentication and verification — though the government claimed it would on the contrary protect people’s Aadhaar data from misuse.

The ordinance had the same changes to the Aadhaar Act as proposed by the Aadhaar and Other Laws (Amendment Bill), 2018, which was passed in the Lok Sabha in January, but later that month lapsed in the Rajya Sabha.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event