On June 16, 2021, I and Mirzadegan Immigration Company under the management of Ramin Mirzadegan to membershi 705721 RCIC and email address [protected]@mirzadeganimmigration.Com Mobail:[protected] I have signed an His next violation I signed a contract with him for $ 150, 000 and he offered me the Coburg Symposium restaurant for $ in 650, 000 and I told him to become an official expert. Can this price of $ 650, 000 be available for a few tables and chairs? agreed? But they did not accept and said that you should trust me as your lawyer.. I was very surprised, but due to the unreasonable trust I had in him, I told him to send me the report of the restaurant's one-year financial period. Rather, it was made by hand by themselves and the next item to them I said that the amount of 650, 000 Canadian dollars should be an official and legal expertise. Heavy rent Why was it added that he insulted and threatened me? You should trust me as an immigration lawyer and during a phone call about 3 months ago he told me because of the busy work of the company that accepts 200 immigration cases every month And 200 cases are rejected because they do not have enough time t o process the files. In my case, Mr. Phil Mooney was added to membership R406239 on August 6 to speed up the process. It is not and it has not been registered. Many questions have arisen in my mind that some people like me have caused a lot of problems through this method and have not paid for it. All these words and conversations, especially the documents and documents of the tax evasion certificate. They and the company give and in line with this issue that all fashion The rack is attached to this letter, and since I intend to invest and immigrate, the accuracy of the amounts mentioned must be proven to me. Announce the unreal and the result usubsequently to my e-mail. I also have Ehsan Mehdizadeh: 1. His attorney's fee is C $ 42, 000, which is blank in the HST section. And businesses have a plan to pay for Canadian government spending. Are these numbers real and acceptable? 2. Does the Coburg Symposium Restaurant have a monthly income of C $ 100, 000 in Coburg, Ontario, a restaurant that has been open for six months? I asked Ramin for a bank and official bill, but he sent me the bill manually. 3. The rent for a shop in Coburg, Ontario is C $ 10, 000 per month. In addition to HST, is this amount correct? Ok 4- His next violation I signed a contract with him for $ 150, 000 and he offered me the Coburg Symposium restaurant for $ in 650, 000 and I told him to become an official expert. Can this price of $ 650, 000 be available for a few tables and chairs? agreed? But they did not accept and said that you should trust me as your lawyer. 5- They themselves have sent me an invoice manually which is the income of the restaurant, and the attachment of this letter is all the attached documents. Important Note: Mr. Ramin Mirzadegan, Mr. Terry and Mr. Bill Ergov, the owner of the symposium restaurants, as well as Mr. Phil Mooney, as well as a bank chairman in Toronto who was to borrow $ 500, 000 on my case. The team of fraud and theft have set up. I sent several emails and letters to Mr. Argo and Mr. Phil Mooney to find out what the matter is, but none of them answered my calls and emails. It is very clear to me that all these people with They have set up a fraud team for immigrants to Canada and they are extorting money from their customers. The problem between me and Ramin arose when I asked Ramin for official documents, for example: a bill. Coburg Symposium restaurant money with the signature of the bank in which the restaurant's account is, or the price of $ 650, 000 to buy the restaurant and a few tables, gas and cooking utensils, while Ramin Mirzadegan initially told me this amount to buy the shop And buy royalties and all restaurant equipment. Please consider the harshest punishment for the above people who play with the future and lives of immigrants and swindle and extort money from them. At the moment, Ramin Mirzadegan is saying that the $ 10, 000 I deposited so far has been a contract, and Ramin cites this. I did, file, folder and scan regularly for Ramin. He just turned on the computer and opened his email and received my documents in a file. Do I have to pay Ramin $ 10, 000 in damages for this? On my behalf, this contract has not been terminated and canceled. I have not signed a contract, I have not paid to want to terminate it. I decided to emigrate. In addition to the $ 10, 000 I owed to Ramin Mirzadegan, I also owed $ 10, 000 for the same contract, at Ramin's request, such as an official bachelor of real estate, translating about 500 pages of a translator's signature, matching qualifications for WES Canada, The cost of scanning, filing, folding and other costs being At present, I owe $ 20, 000 to my creditor Ramin. In addition, I have to calculate all the damages for the delay of the money and the profit of the losses and damages that he has caused to me and m y family, up to one dollar, with such swindlers who are my Iranian compatriots. My request to the Ontario Canada Immigration Advisers is to receive $ 20, 000 and its loss profit to date, and the most severe punishment for revoking the immigration license of Ramin Mirzadegan and Phil Mooney, to be dealt with decisively. I even request the revocation of Ramin citizenship. They should not live in a country like Canada, which is very legal. 1- In the HST income tax section, my and Mirzadegan's immigration contract is not empty. They are from taxes. At the beginning, Ramin Mirzadegan's words are changing. If my contract is exempt from taxes, then the numbers and numbers in the contract are completely fake. At the very beginning, it is clear that Ramin Mirzadegan has no honesty in behavior and speech. Ramin Mirzadegan's tax has been sent to the Ontario Tax and Finance Administration and is being reviewed by a tax expert. 2. My complaint No. 2021-449 and 2021-450against Ramin Mirzadegan and Phil Brian Mooney has been registered in the College of Immigration Counselors and the file of both complaints has been completed in terms of documents and is being sent and Take care of the triage unit of the College of Immigration Counselors. 3- Regarding adding the name of Phil Brian Mooney on August 6, 2021, at the request of Ramin Mirzadegan, my word and my word is not to add Mr. Phil Brian Mooney. They are active and my immigration file is under the supervision of every 10 people. Do I have to pay for those 10 consultants separately? They are Ramin Mirzadegan's own employees. I am not a customer. To be able to add ancillary costs to his invoices and bills, and his next violation is the vacancy in Mr. Phil Brian Mooney's signature on the contract. My wife has a contract at the beginning and at the end my wife has signed a contract. Here, Ramin Mirzadegan has violated that Mr. Phil Brian Mooney's signature is not in the contract. They have news and information. 4-Ramin Mirzadegan's next violation according to Canadian law for a work visa and investment outside the GTA area is C $ 200, 000. He wrote C $ 150, 000 in my contract and the reason for this is Ramin Mirzadegan's trust. He got a customer and by doing so he got more customers for himself and his company. Otherwise, when the law of Canada is $ 200, 000, how and for what reason and reason Mr. Ramin Mirzadegan can pay me a visa for $ 150, 000. All these stories are just to attract customers and deceive customers. 5- Ramin Mirzadegan has mentioned several times that he has good intentions and honesty of work and professional behavior. It was $ 650, 000. I mentioned in paragraph 3 that Ramin Mirzadegan had signed an immigration contract with me for $ 50, 000 less. Why should he find me a job with a price of $ 650, 000 if I agree with him? I had made $ 000, but as a buyer of the symposium restaurant, I announced my readiness. If the restaurant should be legal in terms of pricing, it should become an official and legal expert on whether the value of the restaurant is 650, 000 or not, and in terms of restaurant symposium income, it should be for me. The official bank and legal bill is whether the restaurant's monthly income is $ 100, 000. Ramin Mirzadegan sent me an invoice, but not an official one. Shouldn't I, as an immigrant, as an investor, be in the formal and legal pricing? Shouldn't I be in the legal, official and banking pricing of the restaurant? As a buyer and investor, I need to be fully aware of the value of the restaurant and the income of the restaurant. 6- If Ramin Mirzadegan could not provide me with legal and official documents Well, now that he could not provide legal documents, he could not provide documents to buy the Coburg Symposium restaurant for any reason. Well, he was looking to buy another job. I paid Ramin Mirzadegan $ 42, 000 to find a suitable job. Well, for whatever reason, the Coburg Symposium is not open for shopping. He has to look for other jobs. He has taken the fee from me to just offer to buy a Coburg restaurant, or he has to find several other jobs for me so that I can be one of them. I bought the same restaurant in Coburg, but Mirzadegan himself could not fulfill his obligations and he provided me with illegal and unofficial documents. 7- My question to Ramin Mirzadegan is that the purchase of the symposium restaurant has been canceled for any reason at all, why he has not answered my emails and calls anymore and why he has blocked my mobile number on Instagram and virtual networks. I am 10, 000. I have given dollars as a deposit to start my immigration case. Why did Mr. Ramin Mirzadegan not answer my calls and messages after he could not provide me with official documents to buy the symposium restaurant? Why did he block me? I gave a deposit of $ 10, 000. If Ramin Mirzadegan does not intend to continue this contract, he should return my deposit and terminate the contract, not take $ 10, 000 and he himself could not get official documents. Legalize these problems and events by himself. 8- Apart from the $ 10, 000 that I have deposited and lent to Ramin Mirzadegan, I have also spent about $ 13, 000 in Iran for the same contract and case according to Ramin Mirzadegan's demands. Yes, maybe these expenses were related to me. But for this contract and case, I did it at the request of Mirzadegan. I did not pay these expenses for another place. It was related to this case and contract. 9- He did not do anything for me and my case. I myself translated the official documents of the judiciary in Iran. I have sent an email, only he opened the email and received the documents regularly and offered to buy the symposium restaurant. All these things that Ramin Mirzadegan and Phil Brian Mooney have done for me. 10- Finally, Ramin Mirzadegan mentioned that he was very happy to complain to me in the York district police, and I hope he complained about me, because this will speed up the process of my complaints. I am very happy and I hope he has complained to me until The sooner the truth reaches its destiny, the only difference between me and Mirzadegan is that he only dreams and only insults and threatens. I act on my words one by one and I stand tall to stop these people. More about this source textSource text required for additional translation information Send feedback Side panels Was this information helpful? No (1) Yes (0)