SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I'm just ... whats even going on with IIT coaching?
DATE: 2022-05-09
SCORE: 24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ulrpnj/im_just_whats_even_going_on_with_iit_coaching/

--- POST TEXT ---

Maybe Im naive, but when I was in 4th standard and my sister was in High school around 2007, no one was constantly talking about IIT and JEE Mains and all that rubbish. (Not getting into IIT, but the coaching scam).

Then by the time I was old enough to look at colleges, FIIT-JEE, Kota, Deeksha, Aakash are all over the place.

Maybe I was a kid back then and wasn't thinking about college. But I swear it blew up out of nowhere.

Now its Byjus, Unacademy, that thing that insists a 5 year old built a million dollar app from their classes.

What the fuck is happening? It's like every Bangalore engineer thought "Kitna maza aayega, sabko chootiya banaounga" and found investors to waste money on terrible products.

As an engineer this is just fucking horrible. It isn't even like "beta, you like math and science, you might like engineering." It is "you have two choices. Be a loafer who isn't ever happy or be a stud engineer earning 12 lpa, marrying beautiful women and buying BMWs, maybe move to America" it's fucking dystopian as fuck.

If I had a dollar for everytime I saw a Byjus ad talking about the Pythagoras theorem and how a triangle is formed, I'd be able to fix the economy.

What's worse is these ads don't even try to pretend they are teaching you anything. They don't try to act like you'll learn fundamentals you need. It's just "if you want to go to IIT, study 20 hours a day"

I'm an engineer and I went to a half decent engineering school in Bangalore. Most of my classmates clearly had no interest in engineering. I remember in our first class, a professor asked us how many of us had an idea what we wanted from an engineering degree. Hardly anyone knew. Which is fair, you don't need an idea yet and the hope is that meeting professors and taking classes helps you find an interesting topic you want to build your career in. Maybe that's VLSI, signal processing. Whatever.

What's worse, how many of you are here because your parents wanted you to become engineers? It's real sad to see.

In our fourth year of an ECE degree with multiple core classes in signal processing, students who don't even know the equation for the Fourier Transform.

These coaching classes are just setting everyone up to fail. They just pressure you into busting your ass off for a degree you aren't even passionate about. Just because society says it's a high honor.

Then by the time we graduate, I have friends super interested in communications, some want to work in internet security and cryptography. But then guess what? The job market just wants data science and software engineering.

Add to that the fact there's a whole bunch of parents spending money they don't have into a degree their kids don't want just because of rampant advertising and societal pressure.