SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: /r/India, lets discuss homosexuality. What do we think homosexuality is?
DATE: 2014-03-01
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1z9ure/rindia_lets_discuss_homosexuality_what_do_we/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was prompted to have this discussion after a fellow /r/India redditor made the following statements:

&gt; What happens when our lop-sided sex ratio makes people homosexual. People will stop rebelling against the flawed society. 

&gt; Think about it. Isn't marriage effectively stabilizing your life?
Think about why people become mellow after marriage. Isn't it an accepted fact a high male youth population is dangerous for society? Being gay is effectively escapist. And escapism is the worst thing our society can do.

&gt; I know legalizing it won't affect matters in the grand scheme of things. The basic idea is don't let people in no contact with these ideas get there before seeing what else can be done i.e. rebelling against our flawed society.

&gt; Think about the queers who come on the trains. Aren't they effectively parasites for money? They harass people into giving them money and live pretty much an easy life off others. Who knows if they're really queers outside the garb or is it just one big scam....

&gt; Again I repeat, I find gay people in India and their inactivity really discomfitting. To think they'd vote for the Congress above anybody else regardless of how bad they surely will fuck up the country? It's an utterly irresponsible community.

&gt; It's an empirical judgement of mine, but please think over it objectively. Our real problem is not homosexuality. It's demographic aggression of villages on overloaded cities and the absolute inability of selfish, materialistic internal outlooked government. And the LGBT community is another which looks heavily internal, 'selfish'. Where does the modern idea of 'homosex' comes from? The West right? Are we ready? Do we have western conditions of stability? We don't. Once we become a developed society, again this issue will be organically solved. Again, where does this prevail in India? Bollywood actors right? Who's responsible for NI's mess. I'd say Bollywood, which is where people get their info about the country. Has it been good for the country? Absolutely not. The point is the Bollywood itself is a richjerk with no care about the country. How the fuck is romance fuck-the-rest-of-the-world helping the country? How are our film actors, some of whom are possibly gay good for the society? They aren't. This is really a western import for rich people with no care/intelligence for society. Narcissism. Internal. Selfish.

&gt; Maybe a developed society can handle this community. Certainly not ours.

I found this extremely disheartening, that someone who claims to be educated could frame such hateful opinion without even understanding what homosexuality and LGBT is about. I wonder how many of us hold such an opinion. I implore others who think about homosexuality on similar lines to read more about it, and to learn what it actually is.