You can access the DoT directive and court order from here

The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has directed all internet service providers (ISPs) in India to immediately block access to five websites accused of infringing the Burger King trademark , following an order from the Delhi High Court.

In a communication dated March 2026, the DoT asked licensees with internet service authorisation to take “ immediate necessary action ” to block the listed domains in compliance with the court’s February 18, 2026 order. The websites identified for blocking are:

The directive stems from an ongoing trademark dispute in CS (COMM) 303 of 2022: Burger King Corporation v. Swapnil Patil & Ors. before the Delhi High Court.

On February 18, 2026, the court allowed Burger King Corporation to add these domains as defendants after it argued that new websites were being created to continue allegedly infringing activities despite earlier injunctions . The court noted that the defendants had “ purchased new domain names and launched different websites to lure potential franchisees and they have continued with their illicit operations.”

The court relied on a prior “d ynamic” injunction granted in December 2023 , which allows the company to bring new, similar websites under the scope of the case without filing a fresh suit each time.

As part of the latest order, the court directed domain registrars to suspend the identified websites. It also instructed the Ministry of Communications and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to ensure that ISPs block access to these domains and to file a compliance affidavit within two weeks.

If servers are located outside India, the document states that blocking through international internet gateways may be more effective due to their smaller number.

The latest order adds another set of domains to an expanding list in the case, reflecting the court’s use of dynamic injunctions to address repeated creation of similar websites.

The issue also reflects a broader pattern where fake websites use known brand names to gain trust . On March 21, 2026, the co-founders of CoinDCX were arrested in a fraud case linked to a fake website impersonating the platform . They were later granted bail by a Thane court, which found that prima facie, no case was made out against them. The alleged fraud was carried out through a website, “coindcx.pro”, by impersonators with no connection to CoinDCX.

Both instances point to the growing use of lookalike domains that rely on brand recognition, raising questions about how quickly such websites can be identified and blocked.

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event