IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 RAIPUR BENCH, RAIPUR
 BEFORE SHRI RAVISH SOOD, JM & SHRI ARUN KHODPIA, AM
 आयकर अपील सं./ITA No.151/RPR/2019
 (निर्धारण वर्ा / Assessment Year :2014-2015)
Nand Kishore Bagree, Vs. ITO-4(4), Raipur
C/o Bagree Enterprises,
Near City Kotwali,
Chotapara, Raipur
PAN No. : ADEPB 7650 C

 (अपीलार्थी /Appellant) .. (प्रत्यर्थी / Respondent)

निर्ाा रिती की ओर से /Assessee by : Shri R.B. Doshi, CA
िाजस्व की ओर से /Revenue by : Shri G.N. Singh, Sr. DR

सुिवाई की तािीख / Date of Hearing : 25/07/2022

घोषणा की तािीख/Date of Pronouncement : 25/07/2022

 आदे श / O R D E R
Per Arun Khodpia AM : 2. The sole ground raised by the assessee in this appeal is as under :- 3. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is an individual having

income from business or profession and also having income from other

sources. The assessee filed its return of income on 30.03.2015 showing

total income at Rs.10,72,090/-. Thereafter the AO issued statutory notices

to the assessee and in response to which the assessee appeared before

the AO. Subsequently, the AO framed the assessment assessing total

income of the assessee at Rs.10,72,090/- making addition of 2 ITA No.151/RPR/2019 Rs.3,55,854/- treating the same as unaccounted and unexplained amount

credited to the bank of account of the assessee invoking provisions of

section 68 of the Act. Against which, the assessee preferred appeal

before the CIT(A), but again the CIT(A) upheld the view of the AO,

confirmed the above addition made by the AO and dismissed the appeal

of the assessee. Now, the assessee is in further appeal before the

Tribunal. 4. Before us, ld. AR submitted the contentions of the assessee on the

grievance rose by this appeal and demonstrated the same with

documentary evidence as described here under, that: Absolutely nothing brought on record to dispute any of these
 evidences. 7. Evidences rejected arbitrarily, on presumption and surmises. 8. No enquiry whatsoever earned out by the AO at any stage. 9. Nothing brought on record to demonstrate as to how the alleged
 modus operandi etc. is present in the transaction of assessee.
 SEBI report neither reproduced in assessment order nor contents
 made available to the assessee at any time. Nobody knows what is
 the investigation carried out by SEBI and what are the findings: - Unless any investigation was carried out in the context of
 Income Tax Act, findings of any such enquiry could not be
 used in Income Tax proceedings without any further enquiry
 by the AO. iv) Whether the AO had the report of SEBI in his records. v) Whether name of scrip is mentioned in the report of SEBI or
 whether name of the assessee or his broker is appearing
 therein. 10. Alleged report of DIT(Inv.) i) Copy of the report neither provided to the assessee nor
 contents reproduced in assessment order. Nobody knows
 what does it contain and whether it has any reference of the
 scrip, the assessee, the broker, assessee's transaction etc. ii) AO simply adopted borrowed conclusion; not permissible. 11. Material utilized by AO not confronted; nor provided to the
 assessee i) Such material is liable to be ignored. If it is so ignored then there is
 nothing on record. ii) AO violated the principles of natural justice. Reliance on: - 12. Apparent to be considered to be real unless proved otherwise. Reliance on CIT vs Bedi & Co. P. Ltd. (1998) 230 ITR 580 (SC). 13. If any of the reports had specific reference of assessee, AO would
 have referred to it. AO did not conduct any enquiry either from
 SEBI or from the concerned broker. 14. Assessee regular investor in shares. Holding as on 15.03.2010 at
 PN 10 & 11 of PB. 15. Addition made on the basis of general observations. Nothing
 specific against the assessee. 16. AO has not made out a case as to how the lengthy observations
 made by him are present or applicable in the case of the assessee. 17. No case made out that either the assessee or his broker were party
 to any manipulation. Even if there was any price rigging, in
 absence of involvement of assessee, it was not relevant. 18. Business, turnover, profitability etc. of the company may not be
 significant but investment decisions are taken by investor not on
 the basis of present or past achievement but on market tips,
 credibility of the management, future plans etc. The market does
 not depend only upon the past and present figures. 19. Reliance on: - 02.02.2018, relevant finding in para 24 and 19. ii) DCIT vs Rakesh Saraogi & Sons HUF in ITA no. 93 to
 99/RPR/2014 dt. 16.04.2018. PN 26 to 41, relevant findings
 on 31, 32, 34 & 40 of PB. iii) Navneet Agarwal in ITA no. 2281 /Kol./2017 dt. 20.07.2018,
 PN 42 to 68 of PB. Relevant observations on para 11 & 12.
 Relevant findings in para 15 & 16. iv) Summary of some other cases at PN 20 to 25 of PB. 20. Reply on general observations of AO at PN 16 to 19 of PB. 5. Ld DR, on the other hand, has vehemently supported the orders of

the revenue authorities. He drew our attention to the orders of Ld AO and

Ld CIT(A), where in from para 5.1 to 5.11 bogus share purchase and

unaccounted money of LTCG transaction has been described in detail

under heads (1) Modus Operandi, (2) Role of Share brokers and (3)

Action by SEBI. Ld DR further read para 5.11 and 6 of the AO's order

which reads as under:- Another fairly common phenomenon noticed in LTCG scam is that
 often the operators split the face value of shares after manipulating
 the market prices of the shares to a reasonably high level and
 repeat the operation to manipulate the prices again after splitting.
 The major reaping of bogus LTCG is generally done only after the
 split of face value of the shares. 6. Information available with this office through the Income Tax
 Department portal confirms the investments in penny Stocks
 Company. The information on record was based on various surveys
 u/s 133A and statement recorded u/s 131, in a countrywide 5 ITA No.151/RPR/2019 operation by the Income Tax Department which also gave rise to
 above mentioned information. Due diligence and careful
 extrapolation of this country-wide "Bogus LTCG" exercise, revealed
 names of BSE/NSE listed companies where manipulation of shares
 had taken place in order to benefit few individual and
 companies/entities through penny stock. 6. Based on above observations of the AO, which were further

substantiated by the Ld CIT(A) by upholding the same, ld DR has

submitted that the transaction are proved to be unexplained and orders of

revenue authorities are based on facts and circumstantial evidences with

a plausible view hence deserves to be sustained. 7. We have heard the rival contentions, perused the material available

on record and have considered the citations relied upon. Prima facie, the

order of AO was focused on general description of process with respect to

unaccounted and unexplained money routed to the account of beneficiary

/ assessee in the garb of Long term capital gain. The Ld AO has relied

upon the investigation report of investigation wing, Calcutta and

suspension of trading of Sunbright Stock Broking Ltd due to surveillance

measures, the same aspect has further demonstrated by the AO by

affixing screen shots of the suspension of the said company on account

surveillance by the SEBI. Contention of the AO was accepted by the Ld

CIT(A) reiterating the same facts, transaction was considered as a sham

transaction. 8. We have observed that the assessment was entirely based on the

report of the Investigation Wing of the Calcutta. No independent enquiry

was made for the case of assessee. AO's assumption, that the broker has

done some manipulation in the transaction and thereby the assessee was 6 ITA No.151/RPR/2019 benefitted, was based on surmises, have no documentary evidence to

prove that the assessee was involved in such bogus transaction or that

the assessee has given any cash to the broker. Admittedly, transactions

are substantiated with the documentary evidences by the assessee that

these were done through proper banking channel, shares purchased were

credited in the Demat account of the assessee, shares sold through an

authorised broker details of which are shared with the AO by the

assessee. Payment of sale of shares was received by the assessee in its

bank account and STT was duly charged. 9. It is observed that the AO and the Ld CIT(A) are guided by the

report of the investigation wing but no part of the report of the

investigation wing could be brought out which observe something against

the assessee under reference. A vicious circle showing the assessee's

collusion with the persons investigated such as stockbrokers, entry

operators or any other persons could not be extracted by the Ld AO and

thus no wrong involvement of the assessee in such sham transactions

could be established by the department. 10. In this regard, case law relied upon by the ld AR in the case of Navneet Agarwal Vs ITO, Ward -35(3), Kolkata in ITA 2281/Kol/2017 is

relevant where in it is observed that: The observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are equally applicable
to the case of the assessee. In our view, the assessing officer
having failed to bring on record any material to prove that the
transaction of the assessee was a collusive transaction could not
have rejected the evidences submitted by the assessee. In fact, in
this case nothing has been found against the assessee with aid of
any direct evidences or material against the assessee despite the
matter being investigated by various wings of the Income Tax
Department hence in our view under these circumstances nothing
can be implicated against the assessee. 18. We now consider the various propositions of law laid down by the Courts of law. That cross-examination is one part of the
principles of natural justice has been laid down in the following
judgments: In the said case, the Assessee had specifically asked to be
 allowed to cross-examine the representatives of the firms
 concern, to establish that the goods in question had been
 accounted for in their books of accounts, and that excise duty
 had been paid. The Court held that such a request could not be
 turned down, as the denial of the right to cross- examine, would
 amount to a denial of the right to be heard i.e. audi alteram
 partem. 28. The meaning of providing a reasonable opportunity to show
 cause against an action proposed to be taken by the
 government, is that the government servant is afforded a
 reasonable opportunity to defend himself against the charges,
 on the basis of which an inquiry is held. The government
 servant should be given an opportunity to deny his guilt and
 establish his innocence. He can do so only when he is told what
 the charges against him are. He can therefore, do so by cross-
 examining the witnesses produced against him. The object of
 supplying statements is that, the government servant will be
 able to refer to the previous statements of the witnesses 9 ITA No.151/RPR/2019 proposed to be examined against him. Unless the said
 statements are provided to the government servant, he will not
 be able to conduct an effective and useful cross-examination. 29. In Rajiv Arora v. Union of India and Ors. AIR 2009SC 1100,
 this Court held: Effective cross-examination could have been
 done as regards the correctness or otherwise of the report, if the
 contents of them were proved. The principles analogous to the
 provisions of the Indian Evidence Act as also the principles of
 natural justice demand that the maker of the report should be
 examined, save and except in cases where the facts are
 admitted or the witnesses are not available for cross-
 examination or similar situation. The High Court in its impugned
 judgment proceeded to consider the issue on a technical plea,
 namely, no prejudice has been caused to the Appellant by such
 non- examination. If the basic principles of law have not been
 complied with or there has been a gross violation of the
 principles of natural justice, the High Court should have
 exercised its jurisdiction of judicial review. 30. The aforesaid discussion makes it evident that, not only
 should the opportunity of cross-examination be made available,
 but it should be one of effective cross- examination, so as to
 meet the requirement of the principles of natural justice. In the
 absence of such an opportunity, it cannot be held that the
 matter has been decided in accordance with law, as cross-
 examination is an integral part and parcel of the principles of
 natural justice." b) Andaman Timber Industries vs. Commissioner of C. Ex.,
Kolkata-II wherein it was held that: 19. On similar facts where the revenue has alleged that the
assessee has declared bogus LTCG, it was held as follows: b) The JAIPURITAT in the case of VIVEKAGARWAL[ITA
No.292/JP/2017]order dated 06.04.2018 held as under vide Page 9
Para 3: c)The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of
PREMPAL GANDHI[ITA-95-2017(O&M)] dated18.01.2018 at vide
Page 3 Para 4 held as under: The Court also held the following vide Page 3 Para 5 the following: d) The BENCH "D"OF KOLKATAITAT in the case of
GAUTAMPINCHA[ITA No.569/Kol/2017]order dated 15.11.2017
held as under vide Page 12 Para 8.1: Further in Page 15 Para 8.5 of the judgment, it held: e) The BENCH "D" OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of KIRAN
KOTHARI HUF [ITA No. 443/Kol/2017] order dated 15.11.2017
held vide Para 9.3 held as under: g) The BENCH "H"OF MUMBAIITAT in the case of
ARVINDKUMAR JAINHUF [ITA No.4682/Mum/2014]order dated
18.09.2017 held as under vide Page 6 Para 8: h)The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of
VIVEK MEHTA[ITA No. 894 OF2010] order dated 14.11.2011 vide
Page 2 Para 3 held as under: i) The Hon'ble Jurisdictional Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT
 vs. Bhagwati Prasad Agarwal in I.T.A. No. 22/Kol/2009 dated
 29.04.2009 at para 2 held as follows: j) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of PCIT vs. Teju Rohit
 kumar Kapadia order dated 04.05.2018 upheld the following
 proposition of law laid down by the Hon'ble Gujrat High Court as
 under: 20. Applying the proposition of law as laid down in the above-
 mentioned judgments to the facts of this case we are bound to
 consider and rely on the evidence produced by the assessee in
 support of its claim and base our decision on such evidence and
 not on suspicion or preponderance of probabilities. No material was
 brought on record by the AO to controvert the evidence furnished
 by the assessee. Under these circumstances, we accept the
 evidence filed by the assessee and allow the claim that the income
 in question isa bona fide Long Term Capital Gain arising from the
 sale of shares and hence exempt from income tax. 21.Under the circumstances and in view of the above discussion,
 we uphold the contentions of the assessee and delete the addition
 in question. 11. This bench of the Tribunal in assessee's wife's case i.e. in the case

of Smt. Durga Devi Bagree, in ITA No.104/RPR/2019, vide order dated 16 ITA No.151/RPR/2019 20.07.2022 decided the similar issue in favour of the assessee directing

the AO to delete the addition made u/s.68 of the Act. 12. Since law laid down by the hon'ble courts and observations of

coordinate bench of the ITAT in the similar facts and circumstances are in

favour of the assessee, therefore, it is our considered view that the

contentions of department are not acceptable, which are based on

general practices of the entry operators, their modus operandi, report of

the investigation wing without having any specific observation on the

transactions by the assessee. Such observation of the revenue authorities

are based on presumptions having no specific evidence against the

assesee, thus is not sustainable and deserves to be set aside. Accordingly, we set aside the orders of authorities below and direct the

AO to delete the addition. Thus, we allow the appeal of the assessee. 13. In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 25/07/ 2022. आदे श की प्रनिनलनप अग्रेनर्ि/Copy of the Order forwarded to :