Represented by: Thus the head-end serves as integral function in the cable TV

Transmission chain. Head-end contains combinations converters, signal

processors/ generators, combiners, scramblers, amplifiers, modulators/

demodulators and receivers. The receiver/ descrambler decode a

scrambled signal for further transmission, reception and subsequent

display. In the instant case, the head-end is a combination of individual

machines, interconnected by electric cables, intended to contribute

together to the clearly defined function of „transmission apparatus for

...... television, whether or not incorporation reception apparatus." The

impugned goods are used in cable industry for transmission of cable

television programme to cable TV Operators. The encoders are made

using circuits from with MPEG-2 and MPEG - 4 whose applicability lies

for broadcast television applications. That Chapter 85.17 excludes

transmission or reception apparatus of heading 85.28. Explanatory

notes to CTH 85.17 covers networks which may be interconnected

include telephony, telegraphy, radio - telegraphy, local and wide area

networks. CTH 85.28 refers to reception apparatus for television,

whether or not incorporating radio - broadcast receivers or sound or

video recording apparatus, for the display of signals (televisions sets)

and (2) Apparatus for reception of television signals, without display 3|Page C/11809/2018-DB

capabilities (e.g. receivers for satellite television broadcasts). These

apparatus receive signals and convert them into a signal suitable for

display. Thus the classification under CTH 85287390 is correct. 2. Shri H.D. Dave, Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant

describes the relevant entry of 8517 and 8528, which are as under:- - Reception apparatus for television, whether or not incorporating
 radio-broadcast receivers or sound or video recording or reproducing
 apparatus. He submits that the goods in question being equipment for conversion

and compression (coding) are used for conversion of signals as

apparatus for transmission at transmission side for both wired and

wireless networks (WAN&LAN) and not as subscribers end as reception

apparatus for television. That even in case of exports, subject goods

have been classified under Chapter 8517. The Appellants are 4|Page C/11809/2018-DB

manufacturers and importers of various telecommunication products and

equipments for network and also of equipments for conversion and

compression of data for various digital network operators not limited to

supplies to cable operators. He draws our attention to the invoices

issued by them to different industries such as Space Communication

Centre (Space & Satellite related applications), Infosys (Information

Technology & Software Industry), Hathway Cable & Datacom (Cable &

Broadband, Cable & Network service provider), Broadband (Internet

service provider). He submits that CTH 8528 does not include

apparatus for transmission, instead it includes only reception apparatus.

The contention of the Adjudicating authority that MPEG-4 and MPEG-2

are used by encoders only for broadcast of television application is

totally erroneous as it can be used for multiple applications and services.

He relies upon excerpts from ITU-T MPEG-2 and MPEG - 4 A as below: end sub-system equipment (DHE) and many more for use in cable

satellite or any other net work. The equipments in question are

essentially used as data conversion equipment for converting voice,

images, audio -video by its various procedures into a network output

which can be used for telecommunication, satellite communication,

internet protocol or ITPV and also for television transmission, but not

ever for any television reception. The impugned goods are not imported

as "Television Reception", but rather are normally machines for data

conversion equipment for converting signals from "analogue to digital" apparatus . They are involved in system integration and enabling net

work systems manufacture /assembling besides into other

manufacturing activities also. The equipments are not limited or even

used for television transmission directly or reception. These are

essentially data conversion equipments including telecommunication and 6|Page C/11809/2018-DB

internet protocol services which are, therefore, only classifiable in

Chapter 8517. The explanatory note to Chapter 8517 clearly mentions

that where the different apparatus are essentially performing the

function as a combination of machines to the principal function of

Chapter 8517, then they are to be solely classified there-under only and

not under any other chapter. (b) Other parts, if suitable for use solely or principally with a particular
 kind of machine or with a number of machine of the same heading
 (including a machine of heading 84.79 or 85.43) are to be
 classified with the machines of that kind or in heading 84.09,
 84.31, 84.48, 84.66, 84.73, 85.03, 85.22, 85.29 or 85.38 as
 appropriate. However, parts which are equally suitable for use
 principally with the goods of headings 85.17 and 85.25 to 85.28
 are to be classified in heading 85.17." That being data conversion equipments capable of multiple outputs in

combination with other machines, they merit classification under

Chapter 8517 and cannot be constricted to narrowly confine to Chapter

8528 since they are not any kind of reception apparatus of television

much less apparatus for reception. He draws our attention to the

imports of similar goods wherein the goods have been imported from

year 2011 to 2018 including that of satellite TV and cable service

industry in Chapter 8517. He submits that the impugned goods being

imported all over the country through different Custom Houses are

classified under Chapter 8517 only. He also submits that the demands

are barred by limitation of time and there has been no reason for

incorrect classification of imported goods as the importers had also

imported the goods under the same custom tariff heading and therefore

it cannot be alleged that there has been suppression or intention to 7|Page C/11809/2018-DB

evade duty by the Appellant. He relies upon the following judgments in

support of his contentions:- (Import), Mumbai - 2004 (170) ELT 446 (Tri, Del) (xiii) Commr. V/s Fibcom India Ltd - 2003(152)ELT 108 (Tri, Del) ( xiv) HCL Comnet Systems & Services Ltd v/s Commr-2002 (139)

 ELT 304 (Tri, Del) 4. On the other hand Shri. Jeetesh Nagori, Ld. Additional

Commissioner (AR) appearing for the Revenue reiterates the findings of

the impugned order. He further submits that the items in question, i.e.

Encoders, Multiplexers etc. are digital head-end equipments, which help 8|Page C/11809/2018-DB

in transmitting the data. These are addressed as COPE /Digital head-

end items for the purpose of trading / marketing. The cable television

head-end is master facility for receiving television signals for processing

and distribution over a cable television system. The head-end facility is

normally un-staffed and surrounded by some type of security fencing

and is typically a building or large shed housing electronic equipment

used to receive and re-transmit video over the local cable infrastructure.

A head-end is a cable television industry term for a combination of

television signal transmission apparatus. Each system is individually

configured as per the set specifications for particular customer. It

receives satellite television signals, modifies the signal and then

transmits the signal into a cable television. Thus, the head-end serves

as integral function in the cable TV television chain. Head-end contains

combinations, converters, signal processors / generators, combiners,

scramblers, amplifiers, modulators / demodulators and receivers. The

receiver / descramblers are used in cable television application for

receiving, de-coding and re-transmitting television signals. The receiver

/ descrambler decodes for further transmission, reception and

subsequent display. 5. In the case in hand, the head-end is a combination of individual

machines, inter-connected by electric cables intended to contribute

together to the clearly defined function of transmission apparatus for

television, whether or not incorporating reception apparatus. The

imported goods are to be used / help for transmission of cable television

program providers to the cable TV operators. He submits that the

application of the products in the cable TV industry and used as a format

for digital television signals that are broadcast over the air, cable and

direct broadcast satellite TV systems. The goods are reception 9|Page C/11809/2018-DB

apparatus for television. That Chapter Tariff Head 8517 excludes

transmission or reception apparatus CTH 85.28. Explanatory notes to

CTH 85.17 covers networks, which may be interconnected, include

telephony, telegraphy, radio-telephony, radio-telegraphy, local and wide

area networks. CTH 85.28 refers to reception apparatus for television,

whether or not incorporating radio-broadcast receivers or sound or video

recording or reproducing apparatus. The Explanatory notes to the

Harmonised System of Nomenclature for CTH 85.28 says that the

heading includes (1) Television reception apparatus, whether or not

incorporating radio-broadcast receivers or sound or video recording or

reproducing apparatus for the display of signals (television sets) and (2)

Apparatus for the reception of television signals, without display

capabilities. These apparatus receive signals and convert them into a

signal suitable for display. Therefore, when it is established that the

disputed products namely encoders, modulators and multiplexers are for

use as a reception apparatus for television, there could not be case for

classifying them under CTH 85.17 and CTH 85287390 is the correct

heading for the products. Therefore, the classification for the products

in question namely encoders, modulators and multiplexers under CTH

85287390 is appropriate and correct. That in case of ruling by World

Customs Organization relied upon by the Appellant for classification of

goods under CTH 85.28, a communication was made to the Joint

Secretary (Customs), Central Board of Excise & Customs, New Delhi

under F.No. VIII/10-116/ACC/O & A/2014 dated 3.1.2018 seeking their

confirmation as to whether the classification decision taken in the

Harmonised System of Committee of World Customs Organisation in

44thth session held in October, 2009 have been accepted by the Board.

The OSD, Tariff Unit, Central Board of Excise & Customs, New Delhi with
 10 | P a g e C/11809/2018-DB

the approval of the Member (Customs) informed under their letter F.No.

528/02/2018-STO (TU) dated 10.4.2018 that the subject WCO ruling

had been examined in the Board and the said ruling has not been

accepted by the Board. Therefore, it is considerably clear that the

classification recommendations made by the WCO‟s Committee have not

been accepted by the Central Board of Excise & Customs for the

products namely encoders, modulators and multiplexers imported by the

importer and, therefore, the recommendations made by the Committee

cannot be implemented in India. Accordingly, the contention made by

the importer on this count is not justified. Hence, there is clear

justification to classify the disputed products imported by the importer

under CTH 85287390 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 as proposed in the

SCNs dated 3.12.2014, 22.6.2016 and 29.12.2016. Consequent to the

classification of encoders, modulators and multiplexers under CTH

85287390 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 , these products are to be re-

assessed under CTH 85287390 in cases of the SCNs dated 3.12.2004,

22.6.2016 and 29.12.2016. 6. We have heard and carefully considered the submissions made by

both the sides and perused the records. We find that the dispute

pertains to classification of the goods, viz. encoders, modulators and

multiplexers, which are for conversion of voice, images and other data

prior to its transmission for various networks. The rival entries involved

in this case are 85.17 and 85.28, which reads, as under:- - Reception apparatus for television, whether or not
 incorporating radio-broadcast receivers or sound or video
 recording or reproducing apparatus. 8528.71 - Not designed to incorporate a video display or screen

 8528.72- Other, colour

 8528.73 - Other, monochrome " Para 6.1 From the above findings of the Commissioner in the
 impugned order, it is clear that the equipment, in question, is
 merely for transmission of audio and video signals by a
 reporter from some place to his studio through GSM cellular
 network and it is from the studio that the audio/video recording
 is broadcasted to the public. This fact is clear from the
 technical literature also, according to which this equipment
 gives a person the flexibility to either broadcast Live
 programme to the studio, or to Live + broadcast server or Live
 + Streaming server. Para 7. The goods covered under 8525 50 10 and 8525 50 20
 are "Radio broadcast treatment" and "TV broadcast
 transmitter" respectively. Every transmitter is not a broadcast
 transmitter for public reception. The equipment which can
 merely transmit some audio or video signals from one place to
 another place and is not capable of transmitting the signals
 which can be received by general public cannot be called
 broadcast equipment. What is covered under Heading No. 8525
 50 10 and 8525 50 20 are the transmitter which can transmit
 radio or TV programme intended for reception by public and it
 is such equipment which are restricted for import. Since the
 equipment imported cannot transmit the signals for reception
 by general public but is meant only for transmitting the audio
 or video signals by a reporter from some place to his studio
 from where the signals are broadcasted for general public, the
 equipment, in question, cannot be classified under Heading No.
 8525 50 20 and hence, the same would not be restricted for
 import. The impugned order, therefore, is not sustainable. The
 same is set aside. The appeal is allowed. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Commr. of Customs
 Vs Multi Screen Media , 2015 (322) ELT 421 SC in the similar
 set of controversy has held as under :- Here under entry 8525.20 what is clarified that even if the
 apparatus which are transmitting signals have the additional
 functions of reception of signals as well, such goods will still be
 classified 8525.20. We are therefore of the opinion that the
 Tribunal has rightly classified the goods of the respondent
 under 8525.20. Para 4. The Commissioner, who had taken the contrary view,
 went by Rule 2(b), that is the classification of combination
 substance, and on that basis he held that since the goods were
 classifiable under two or more headings, classification shall be
 effected as per the said Rule. This itself is incorrect having
 regard to the fact that entry 85.28 deals only with reception
 apparatus with no function as transmission apparatus.

 Para 5. This appeal is accordingly dismissed. Para 6. The excess duty paid by the respondent, if any, shall
 be refunded in accordance with law." Similarly, in case of CC (Import), Air Cargo Complex, Mumbai Vs.

Indelox Services Pvt. Ltd - 2017 (357) ELT 946 (Tri, Mum), the

Tribunal has held that if the device is having function of transmitting

data through network from one server to other and has function of

security for the data transmitted, the same would fall under CTH 8517.

The relevant para of the said order held, as under:- This group includes apparatus which allows for the connection to
 a wired or wireless communication network or the transmission
 or reception of speech or other sounds, images or other data
 within such a network. Communication networks include, inter
 alia, carrier-current line systems, digital-line systems and
 combinations thereof. They may be con figured, for example, as
 public switched telephone networks, Local Area Networks (LAN);
 Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN) and Wide Area Networks
 (WAN), whether proprietary or open architecture.

 This group includes: Therefore when network interface is covered under the CTH
 8517, the machine comprising of similar cards is also covered
 under CTH 8517. The impugned goods being an interface
 between the web and network is rightly classifiable under 8517.
 Also in the matter of Commissioner of Customs, Bangalore v.
 Cisco Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. - 2007 (210) E.L.T. 674 (Tri.-
 Bang.), I find that the classification of the network security
 device stands decided by the Hon‟ble Tribunal under CTH 8517.
 In the impugned goods being of similar nature are classifiable
 under CTH 8517. As far as past clearance of similar goods is
 concerned no demand notice seems to have issued by the
 department, till date." 16 | P a g e C/11809/2018-DB

 From the above finding, it is observed that the learned
 Commissioner (Appeals) has contended that the product in
 question is covered under the Network Interface Card, therefore,
 it was classifiable under CTH 8517. Para 5. On the submissions of the learned Counsel, based on
 various authorities, we find that the product is a Gateway
 Security Device. It has the function of transmitting the data
 through Network from one server to other and it has function of
 security for the data transmitted. Since the product has feature
 of transmission of data, it merits classification under the
 communication apparatus i.e. under CTH 8517. Heading 8543
 proposed by the Revenue is a residuary entry. Since as per the
 application and function of the product, it is used for
 communication and transmission of the data. It finds place
 under the specific entry i.e. under 8517. Therefore, it cannot be
 classified under residuary entry, which is meant for a product
 not elsewhere specified. As per the finding of the learned
 Commissioner (Appeals) and our above discussion, we are of the
 view that subject goods is correctly classifiable under CTH 8517
 and not under CTH 8543. Therefore, the impugned order is
 upheld. The appeal is dismissed. The Cross-Objection filed by
 the respondent also stands disposed of." 7. From the above judgments, it is clear that as the impugned goods

are having the function of transmission of data and other functions and

hence the same would merit classification under CTH 8517. Accordingly,

we hold that the goods are classifiable under CTH 8517. We therefore

set aside the impugned order and allow the appeal with consequential

reliefs, if any.