1. The petitioner has challenged the notice of re-assessment

dated 13.02.2020 issued by the assessing officer to reopen the

assessment of the petitioner for the assessment year 2015-2016. 2. Brief facts are as under: They are the promoters of the Penny Stock companies
who own the initial shareholding mostly in the name of
paper companies either in a fresh IPO or Purchased
from the shareholders of a dormant company. They are
usually a group of 4-5 individuals who also referred to
as Syndicate Members and are sometimes also referred
to as Operators. Their nominees are directors of the
Penny Stock companies which are indirectly controlled
by them through such dummy directors. The whole
operation is managed by them. They get the net
commission income from the transactions. Their name
however, seldom appears in the actual transactions. ii) The Brokers
They are registered brokers through whom shares are
traded both online and off-line. They are fully aware of
the nature of transactions and get paid a commission
over and above their normal brokerage. Some of the big broking houses are also indulging in
such transactions mostly through sub-brokers. This
company has given a large number of terminals to sub-
brokers who are dealing into this type of transactions. iii) The Entry Operators. They are individuals who control a large number of
paper/shell companies which are used for routing cash
for the transactions as well as buying and selling shares
during the process of price rigging. They work for (Downloaded on 09/02/2022 at 08:55:00 PM) (4 of 13) [CW-11647/2021]

commission to be paid by the Syndicate Members. To
cut cost sometimes in smaller operations, the same
group perform more than one function. 2.2 The Transaction
The transaction involves three legs. (i) Purchase of share by the beneficiary: In this
the beneficiary is sold a fixed number of shares at a
nominal rate, The price and the number of shares to be
purchased are decided on the basis of the booking
taken and the value up to which price would be rigged.
This leg of the transaction mostly is off-line. This is
done to save on STT using the loophole in Section
10(38) of the IT Act which places restriction of trading
by payment of STT on sale of shares and not on
purchase. ii) Price rigging: After the shares have been
purchased by the beneficiaries, the syndicate members
starts rigging the price gradually through the brokers.
In these transactions the volume is almost negligible.
Two fixed brokers who are in league with the Syndicate
buy shares at a fixed time and at a fixed price. These
low volume transactions are managed through paper
companies of entry operators. iii) Final sale by the beneficiary: This is done after
the beneficiary has already held the share for one year.
The period of holding may be a little more to match the
amount of booking with the final rate. The beneficiary
is contacted either by the Syndicate member or the
Broker (Middle man) through whom the initial booking
was done. The beneficiary provides the required
amount of cash which is routed through some of the
paper companies of the entry operator and is finally
parked in one company which will buy the share from
the beneficiary. In fact this modus operandi can be well understood
through pictorial. Depiction of the scheme (bell shaped
pattern) 3. Enquiries made by the AO as sequel to
information collected/received
The scrip "Life Line Drugs & Pharma Limited" has been
identified as one of the penny stocks that were the part
of the "Penny Stock Manipulation Scam" based on a
series of detailed investigation carried out by the
department by which it was proved that a scheme was
hatched by various players to obtain/provide
accommodation entry of bogus LTCG/STCG or bogus
Long/Short Term Capital Loss through manipulation of
stock market. (5 of 13) [CW-11647/2021]

Pursuant to the detection of a huge rise in the traded
volumes and/or price of the shares of certain
companies including M/s Life Line Drugs Pharma
Limited (now known as Arihant Multi Commercial Ltd.)
for the period January 10, 2013 to May 30, 2015 to
ascertain whether there was any violation of the
provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992 and SEBI (Prohibition
of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to
Securities Market) Regulation, 2003 (hereinafter
referred to as "PFUTP Regulation"), Securities and
Exchange Board of India hereinafter referred to as
'SEBI initiated investigation relating to buying, selling
or dealing in the shares of certain scrips to ascertain
whether there was any violation of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 . Vide
order no. WTM/AB/EFD-I/DRA-1/14/2019-20, SEBI
passed interim orders under sections 11(1) , 11(4) and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,
1992 banning trading in some penny stocks including
M/s Lifeline Drugs and Pharma Limited (Now known as
Arihant Multi Commercial Limited) restrained certain
market entities from accessing securities market on the
basis of its investigation suspecting evasion. Thus, the script is already proved to be penny stock in
nature and SEBI has done substantial amount of work
to investigate the persons and circumstances upon
which the manipulations in the prices has been done in
this script. The undersigned has gathered the financials of the
scrip. It is observed that there is constant cyclic rise
and fall in the price of share. Snap shots of the rise and
fall of both the scrips are reproduced hereunder: It is also noticed that the statements of exit providers
in the case controlled by sh. Devesh upadhyaya and sh.
Bikash surekha was also recorded and they have also (Downloaded on 09/02/2022 at 08:55:00 PM) (6 of 13) [CW-11647/2021]

stated that their accounts have been utilized by the
others to give entries 4. Findings of the AO
The information received has been carefully examined.
As per the information reserved, scheme of providing
entries by various scrips listed in NSE/BSE is being
managed and operated by various entry operators.
Evidences found during the search clearly manifest
those accommodation entries against receipt of cash.
The assessee [Jawari Lal Lunia] has traded in Lifeline
Drugs and Pharma Limited (scrip code 506113) during
the FY 2014-15 i.e. AY 2015-16 which was one of the
said scrips. The assessee has purchased these hares in
January 2013 when the prices of the share were very
low after that the prices of these shares have risen
phenomenally. When the assessee sold these shares
the prices of these shares were very high. Analysis of the financials of the company was also done
and it was noticed that- • The financial of M/s Life Line Drugs & Pharma
 Limited were very poor during the sudden
 upsurge in the script price. • The business profile shows that the company was
 not engaged in any substantial activity.
• The business profile shows that the company was
 not having strong fundamentals which could
 attract investors from all over India to invest in
 the company. Thus, the assessee have earned a the (bogus) Long
term capital Gain of Rs.2,47,99,000/ in the following
circumstance: decreased in the absolute absence of any financial
 fundamental
• By selling his shares to entities which do not even
 exist and are of no means and could not have
 bought the shares from their own funds
• Despite SEBI, the domain regulator finding that
 there was price rigging and manipulation in
 trading of the scrip
• Assessee investing in limited scrips mentioned
 above whose financials were not strong.
• Assessee not being a regular investor in Market. As per CIB information available in the case of said
assessee, it is noticed that the assessee has sold
shares of "Life Line Drugs & Pharma Limited" during F.Y.
2014-15. The assessee has sold 1,08,000 shares of Life
Line Drugs Pharma Limited (Scrip Code 506113) for a
total sale consideration of Rs.2,54,47,000/ during F.Y.
2014-15. It is also observed that the assessee has (Downloaded on 09/02/2022 at 08:55:00 PM) (7 of 13) [CW-11647/2021]

claimed exempt income of Rs.3,43,94,500/-u/s 10(38)
of the Income Tax Act, 1961 in his return of income for
A.Y. 2015-16. Out of the said exempt income, amount
of Rs. 2,47,99,000/-was earned only from trading in
shares of Life Line Drugs & Pharma Limited. The scrip "Life Line Drugs & Pharma Limited" has been
identified as one of the penny stocks that were the part
of the "Penny Stock Manipulation Scam based on a
series of detailed investigation carried out by the
department by which it was proved that a scheme was
hatched by various players to obtain/provide
accommodation entry of bogus LTCG/STCG or bogus
Long/Short Term Capital Loss through manipulation of
stock market. Thus, it is clear that the said assessee is
one of the beneficiaries of the "Penny Stock
Manipulation Scam". In view of the aforesaid facts, I am satisfied that
income to the tune of Rs. 2,47,99,000/- in the case of
said assessee Shri Jawari Lal Lunia for A.Y. 2015-16
has escaped assessment as per Explanation 2(b) given
under section 147 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. 8. Basis of forming reason to believe and details
of escapement of income
The assessee has sold 1,08,000 shares of Life Line
Drugs & Pharma Limited (Scrip Code 506113) for total
sale consideration of a Rs.2,54,47,000/- during F.Y.
2014-15. It is also observed that the assessee has
claimed an exempt income of Rs.3,43,94,500/- u/s
10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 in his return of
income for A.Y. 2015-16. Out of the said exempt
income, amount of Rs. 2,47,99,000/- was earned only
from trading in shares of Life Line Drugs & Pharma
Limited. The scrip "Life Line Drugs & Pharma Limited" has been
identified as one of the penny stocks that were the part
of the "Penny Stock Manipulation Scam" based on a
series of detailed investigation carried out by the
department by which it was proved that a scheme was
hatched by various players to obtain/provide
accommodation entry of bogus LTCG/STCG or bogus
Long/Short Term Capital Loss through manipulation of
stock market. Based on the discussion above, it is clear
that the said assessee is one of the beneficiaries of the
"Penny Stock Manipulation Scam". Therefore, I am satisfied that as per the provisions of section 147 read with Explanation 2(b) given under
the said section of the Income Tax Act, 1961 , income of
Rs. 2,47,99,000/- has escaped assessment for the A.Y.
2015-16. Hence, it is a fit case for reopening u/s
147/148 of the Income Tax Act as income chargeable (Downloaded on 09/02/2022 at 08:55:00 PM) (8 of 13) [CW-11647/2021]

to tax has escaped assessment for the said A.Y. by
reason of the failure on the part of the assessee to
disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for
his assessment for the said A.Y. 9. Escapement of income chargeable to tax in
relation to any assets located outside India
 :- Nil 10. Finding of the AO on true and full disclosure
of the material facts necessary for assessment
under proviso to Section 147 As the assessee had made transactions of sale of
shares of penny stock company i.e. "Life Line Drugs &
Pharma Limited" during F.Y. 2014-15 which is involved
in rigging of its share prices. Thus, it is clear that the
income of Rs. 2,47,99,000/- which is said to have been
earned by the assessee on the sale of shares of "Life
Line Drugs & Pharma Limited" during the F.Y. 2014-15
and claimed as exempt income in the form of LTCG, is
merely a way to route his income from undisclosed
sources into books of accounts. This makes it clear that
despite the fact that assessee has shown the income as
exempt and shares has been shown as investment, it
has not made true and full disclosure of the material
facts necessary for assessment under proviso to section
147 of the Act. 11. Applicability of provisions of Section 147 / 151 to the facts of the case
In this case a return of income was filed for the year
under consideration but no scrutiny assessment u/s
143(3) of the Act was made. Accordingly, in this case
the only requirement to initiate proceeding u/s 147 is
reason to believe which has been recorded (refer
paragraph). It is pertinent to mention here that this case the
assessee has filed return of income for the year under
consideration but no assessment as stipulated u/s
2(40) of the Act was made and the return of income
was only processed u/s 143(1) of the Act. In view of
the above, provisions of clause (b) of explanation 2 of section 147 are applicable to facts of this case and the
assessment year under consideration is deemed to be a
case where income chargeable to tax has escaped
assessment. This case is within four years from the end of the
assessment year under consideration. Hence necessary
sanction to issue the notice u/s 148 has been obtained
separately from Joint Commissioner of Income Tax as
per provisions of section 151 of the Act." (9 of 13) [CW-11647/2021] 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the reasons

lack validity. There is no live link between the material available

with the assessing officer to believe that the income chargeable to

tax has escaped assessment. Under the circumstances, even

though the original assessment was not accepted after scrutiny,

notice for re-assessment should be quashed. In this context,

reliance was placed on the decision of the Delhi High Court in the

case of Principal Commissioner of Income Tax-12 vs.

Krishna Devi and others , (2021) 431 ITR 361 (Delhi) and

the decision of Bombay High Court in the case of South Yarra

Holdings vs. Income Tax Officer , 16(1)(1)(4), Mumbai,

(2019) 263 TAXMAN 594 (Bom.). 4. On the other hand, learned counsel for the revenue opposed

the petition contending that the petitioner has not made out any

case for interference. He relied on the decision of the Supreme

Court in the case of Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax

vs. Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers P. Ltd. , (2007) 291 ITR

500 (SC). 5. We may recall that in the present case, the return filed by

the petitioner was accepted under Section 143(1) of the Act. This

was done without scrutiny. Under such circumstances, the

assessing officer had not formed any opinion and, therefore, the

concept of change of opinion while seeking to reopen the

assessment would not apply. In cases where the return of an

assessee is accepted without scrutiny, the assessing officer enjoys

a greater latitude to reopen the assessment. This aspect has been

elaborated by the Supreme Court in the case of Rajesh Jhaveri

Stock Brokers P. Ltd. (supra) and later on it was reiterated in

the case of Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax and another (Downloaded on 09/02/2022 at 08:55:00 PM) (10 of 13) [CW-11647/2021]

vs. Zuari Estate Development and Investment Company

Limited , (2015) 15 SCC 248. In the case of Rajesh Jhaveri

Stock Brokers P. Ltd. (supra), it was held and observed as

under: 6. With this background, we may revert to the sole contention

raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner, namely, that

reasons recorded by the assessing officer are not reflecting the

live link or connection for formation of the belief that the income

chargeable to tax has escaped assessment. Here also taking

recourse to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers P. Ltd. (supra), we must

remember that the requirement under the law is that the

assessing officer has reason to believe. This term "reason to

believe" cannot be equated with the final conclusion that

eventually if the assessment is allowed, invariably the income

which is escaped from assessment will be brought to tax. As long

as the assessing officer has sufficient material demonstrating that (Downloaded on 09/02/2022 at 08:55:00 PM) (12 of 13) [CW-11647/2021]

he had bona fide formed the belief that the income chargeable to

tax has escaped assessment, requirement of the law would be

satisfied. 7. In this context, if we peruse the detailed reasons recorded

by the assessing officer, we find that he was having information

indicating that certain operators, syndicate members and brokers

were indulging in providing accommodation entries, often times

creating penny stock companies and using them as conduit for

converting untaxed income by bringing them on record by paying

no tax claiming it to be long term capital gain, tax on sale of

shares which was at the relevant time exempted. One such

company found to be indulging in such activities was Life Line

Drugs and Pharma Limited. The assessee, during the period

relevant to the assessment year 2015-2016, had purchased

shares in the said company at the very low price. After that, the

price of these shares had risen phenomenally and they were sold

at high price. In the process, the assessee had claimed a long

term capital gain of Rs.2,47,99,000/-. The assessing officer,

therefore, collected the available material with him and formed

following belief: 8. In our opinion, the assessing officer had sufficient material at

 his command to form a belief that the income chargeable to tax

 has escaped assessment. There is a clear link between the

 information available with the assessing officer and his formation

 of belief that the income chargeable to tax has escaped

 assessment. The judgments relied by the learned counsel for the

 petitioner rest on the individual facts. The decision of the Delhi

 High Court in the case of Krishna Devi (supra) was rendered

 after assessment order completed. Likewise, in the decision of the

 Bombay High Court in the case of South Yarra Holdings (supra), the original assessment was framed after scrutiny, which

 was sought to be reopened after the period of four years from the

 end of relevant assessment year. Entirely different considerations

 in such a situation would arise. 9. In the result, the petition is dismissed. Interim order stands

 vacated. (MADAN GOPAL VYAS),J (AKIL KURESHI),CJ

 47-MohitTak/- Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)