Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> Ttile : Discussion on the motion to consider DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill, 2018 (Bill Passed). HON. SPEAKER: Now, the House will take up item No. 39 – the DNA Technology Regulation Bill. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Madam, before you take up item NO. 39, I want to say something. This Bill has far-reaching consequences. Even for small penal provisions, the DNA could be taken. My submission is this. Kindly send this Bill to the Parliamentary Standing Committee for a close scrutiny since this Bill has very far-reaching consequences. HON. SPEAKER: Honourable Minister. … (Interruptions) THE MINISTER OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, MINISTER OF EARTH SCIENCES AND MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT, FOREST AND CLIMATE CHANGE (DR. HARSH VARDHAN):  I beg to move: The third concern is, the Bill fails to impose a restriction on the exact information to be extracted to create the DNA profile in each of these indices. For instance, the Unidentified Deceased Person’s Index may require just the physical reconstruction of the person, unlike a Crime Scene Index where two different DNA samples may have to be matched. By failing to impose restrictions on the Region of the DNA that can be used for testing and by failing to limit the information that the DNA profile may contain, this Bill will make a large number of people susceptible to profiling based on their skin colour, disabilities, medical conditions and so on. These profiles can be misused despite the Minister’s kind assurances for surveillance but also by private sources for making profits and even for perpetrating crimes. This concern is apparent in the Schedule of the Bill where the Government wants to create DNA profiles for issues relating to pedigree, emigration and immigration. They have not thought this through adequately and there are serious concerns. The fourth concern is this. The control of our DNA will create a power imbalance between the Government and the people. This kind of an imbalance is the hallmark of this Government, I am sorry to say, a Government which wants people to show obedience to it unlike a democratic set up where the Government understands that it exists at the service of the people. That was our approach when we were in Government. But this Government, unfortunately, has created a situation in which they have already attempted to extend the use of Aadhaar to control the lives of individuals; even linking Aadhaar to mobile phone numbers, private bank accounts until the Supreme Court rapped them on their knuckles. Are they now creating one more Bill waiting for the Supreme Court to rap them on their knuckles? A Government, which wants already to dictate to us, as to who we should love, what we should eat and not eat, what we should write and not write, what we can speak and not speak, also wants now to control our DNA and I think that it is a very serious concern for many of us in this country. The fifth concern is, if the Government, as the Minister has made it clear, still insists on passing this Bill in the absence of a special data protection legislation, then clearly, additional privacy safeguards must be incorporated. The Minister was very confident that he had taken care of this concern but the Bill fails to provide standards for effective consent. This is not a legal term. It is also a term of common sense – ‘effective consent.’ There is no provision for notice to the individual whose DNA is to be collected, revocation and deletion in relation to an individual’s rights over the DNA samples and DNA profiles. The consent requirement in this Bill is so superficial that the word ‘consent’ has not even been defined in the Bill. So, what is ‘consent?’ They can presume consent. By leaving the term ‘consent’ undefined, it allows for uninformed and unambiguous consent to be obtained, may be even through coercion or after the collection and usage of the DNA. If you look at Clauses 21 and 22 of the Bill, it substantially waters down the real essence of consent by allowing the Magistrate to override the refusal of content by any arrested individuals or a refusal by a guardian on behalf of a minor. No guiding factors have been enumerated for the Magistrate to keep in mind while exercising such wide powers. This is a very serious threat that the Government is essentially imposing on our people. My sixth objection is that the Bill does not make a provision to inform an individual about the details of the collection or usage of his or her DNA. You can go and have your haircut, they can pick up your hair sample from the barber and they will not have to tell you. My seventh objection is that this Bill grants no right for the revocation of DNA samples or profiles even by those who volunteered for it. Instead, it permits unlimited retention of DNA of volunteers, including victims, in the Data Bank. This is extended to the DNA collected from a volunteer to identify a missing person even when the law of our country itself presumes that the missing person is dead if he or she is missing for seven years. As you know, under the law, if you are missing for seven years, the law will presume that you are dead, so your widow can get benefits and so on. In that circumstance, how can they keep his DNA indefinitely? Continuing with this point, in accordance with the privacy judgement, the Bill should have been amended to include the definition of ‘effective consent’, the obligation to notify any use or application of the DNA sample or the profile of an individual, and the obligation to automatically remove all biological material and related information of any individual. It applies to all of us in this House. Once the purpose for the collection is served, it should grant the right to every individual to retrieve his DNA sample. If you have given your DNA sample to the Government, you should have the right to take it back. The Government should not have the right to keep it for ever. My eighth objection is that the Minister has argued that it has provided for safeguards by setting up a DNA Regulatory Board to ensure compliance to privacy standards by Investigating Officers, by DNA Laboratories and by DNA Data Banks. But the irony, Mr. Chairman, is that the members of the DNA Regulatory Board are Heads of Investigative Agencies, DNA Laboratories and DNA Data Banks. In other words, the regulators will be regulating themselves. These are the very people that the Regulatory Board should be trying to control. Instead of having others, outside experts, scholars, forensic experts, Members of Parliament etc., you have basically given those who are the target of regulation the right to regulate themselves. I find this absolutely astonishing. The Government has thrown independence to the winds. The principle of avoiding conflict of interest has been thrown away. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please conclude. DR. SHASHI THAROOR : Sir, I have five more points. But I will be very brief. My ninth objection is that the few safeguards in the Bill are in relation to the DNA collected from the body of the person. If DNA is collected from the scene of the crime, clothing, other objects or any other source without any safeguards, you know what the dangers are. The DNA Laboratories can collect DNA samples from anywhere they please, except from the body of a person, which gives them a large quantum of DNA. As I said, a haircut is enough. My tenth objection is that there is no regulation of any kind relating to the storage of a person’s DNA samples. In the absence of a prohibition to store or the obligation to destroy, the DNA Laboratories can create their own Data Banks without any Government oversight. Anybody can have a person’s DNA stored in a laboratory without his knowledge. Then, what Clause 31 (3) of the Bill expects is that an innocent person, who, probably, has no idea that his DNA is even in the DNA Data Bank, is supposed to request the National DNA Data Bank to remove his or her DNA from it. Otherwise, it will remain there for eternity. If you do not know that your DNA is in the DNA Data Bank, how will you ask for it to be removed? This is an impossible burden the Bill is imposing on people while letting the DNA Laboratories and DNA Data Banks to potentially misuse the system behind closed doors. Sir, my eleventh objection is that the collection of DNA samples can also get mixed up with the collection of the samples of the Investigative Officer. So, it is an obvious problem. Other countries have anticipated it and solutions can be found. There is the notion of an elimination index where the DNA samples of all the investigating agents will be collected and will be eliminated from any investigation. That should have been included. My twelfth objection is relating to the absence of obligation on law enforcement agencies of the country. There are five indices given under the Bill. It is a serious Bill. One cannot avoid these details. 13 00 hrs 

          Unfortunately, the offenders’ index, the suspect index or undetrails index can be collected by the law enforcement agencies without the consent of the individual. Due to the misconception surrounding the infallibility of DNA samples, they are going to serve as a tremendously important factor in the final judicial decision- making process. It seems to me that they need to do something very, very important to ensure that there is a trusted chain of custody of samples, reliable analysis and proper use of expert evidence in court, otherwise in the absence of these laws, we will be perpetrating an injustice in the criminal justice system.  Therefore, the criminal justice law or this Bill should be revised to include effective provisions. माननीय सभापति : आप जल्दी कनक्लूड कीजिए। DR. SHASHI THAROOR : Sir, I want to make just last two points.  This is such a detailed Bill. Sir, I have taken the trouble to come up with this in the interest of the nation. The Bill, in the cost estimates, grossly underestimates the amount required for enforcement of the Bill.  The financial memorandum of the Bill estimates non-recurring expenses at      Rs. 20 crore and recurring expenses at Rs. 5 crore annually for the establishment of everything - the DNA Regulatory Board, National DNA Databank and Regional DNA databanks and states that there shall be no other expenditure beyond this. Now, I give you a contrast to that, to set up one DNA databank in the UK, it costs Rs. 3000 crore.  How can it be Rs. 20 crore to set up a bank of a equivalent quality in India? It makes no sense.  This is an under-estimate and that is very serious because the Government is asking this Parliament to authorize something that may cost 50 times that the Government is claiming it will cost here. The fact is that if you look at the data that has been provided, the cost of creating just one of the indices, the suspect or undertrial index for India, according to the data of the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, says one index would cost Rs. 1800 crore.  Now, if that is for one index, then how can the Government come up with such an irresponsible number? It must be revised, otherwise we will be voting for a sum which is not true. HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please conclude. DR. SHASHI THAROOR : Finally, the Minister has said that he will take a call on linking DNA profiles with the Aadhar database at the time of framing the rules. I do not think this House should be delegating legislative powers to the stage of framing of rules.  I think this should be in the law.  The Minister should, if necessary, bring an amendment making clear how he intends to use this law. The absence of procedural safeguards, the open-ended manner in which clauses have been drafted and the very wide discretionary powers vested with the instrumentalities of the State, makes it very clear that this Bill fails to abide by the standards of privacy enunciated by the Supreme Court. I do want to say that the Minister has one more option.  This is my final suggestion.  He could take my objections and those of other speakers, re-consider this Bill and refer it to a Standing Committee for further study and deliberation. Remember Sir, they are now in power, tomorrow somebody else may be and these provisions can be misused. HON. CHAIRPERSON : You have already suggested that. DR. SHASHI THAROOR : I request you to withdraw the Bill and refer it to a Standing Committee. डॉ. संजय जायसवाल ( पश्चिम चम्पारण ) : सभापति महोदय, मैं डीएनए प्रौद्योगिकी (प्रयोग और लागू होना) विनियमन विधेयक, 2018 के समर्थन में खड़ा हुआ हूं। महोदय, मैं सबसे पहले माननीय मंत्री डॉ॰ हर्षवर्द्धन जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहूंगा । मुझे खुद समझ में नहीं आ रहा था कि इतना महत्वपूर्ण बिल इतनी देर बाद,  चार साल बाद इंट्रोड्यूस किया गया, लेकिन मैं उनका बहुत आभारी हूं कि एक-एक बारीकी को समझते हुए, पब्लिक डोमेन में किसी बिल को दो बार भेजना, तीन बार उसके बारे में लॉ मिनिस्ट्री से एक-एक बात पर बहस करना और डीटेल्ड डिसक्शन के बाद इस बिल को वे संसद में लाए हैं। इसके लिए मैं उनको आभार और धन्यवाद देता हूं। मुझ से पहले जो माननीय सदस्य बोल रहे थे, उन्होंने एक-दो अच्छे पॉइंट उठाए, जिसके लिए मैं उन्हें धन्यवाद देता हूं। लेकिन उनका एतराज और उनके पहले वाक्य की अंग्रेजी, दोनों मेरी समझ के परे है । मैं आप सबको एक बात बताना चाहूंगा कि डीएनए प्रौद्योगिकी कोई नई चीज नहीं है, यह वर्ष 1992 में, जैसा कि डॉ॰ हर्षवर्द्धन ने बिल इंट्रोड्यूस करते समय बताया, उससे पहले भारत में वर्ष 1991 में माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी की जो हत्या हुई थी, उसमें इसका उपयोग किया गया था। उसके बावजूद हम उसके भविष्य में होने वाले इम्पोर्टेंस को नहीं समझ पाए और हम इसमें बहुत पीछे कहीं छूट गए । मैं आज अपने पूर्व प्रधान मंत्री श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी के प्रति आभार और धन्यवाद व्यक्त करना चाहूंगा कि उनकी सोच और दूरदृष्टि कितनी थी। वह कवि थे, पत्रकार थे, उन्होंने इतने महत्वपूर्ण बिल पर कमेटी बनाई, उस कमेटी पर काम करना शुरू किया। उनकी जो सोच थी, चाहे वह फोरलेनिंग ऑफ द रोड्स हो, प्रधान मंत्री ग्रामीण सड़क हो, उसी तरह से यह इतनी बड़ी चीज थी, मैं उस समय के सारे मंत्रिमंडल को धन्यवाद देना चाहूंगा कि इन्होंने ऐसा किया। दुर्भाग्यवश वर्ष 2007 से यह बिल लटका रहा और 10-11 वर्षों के इंतजार के बाद आज यह इंट्रोड्यूस हुआ है। जब संविधान में 86 संशोधन हो सकते हैं, इतने सारे संशोधन हो सकते हैं, तो बिल में भी धीरे-धीरे संशोधन होंगे, लेकिन पहले इसकी रूपरेखा तो बनाई जाए। आज जो विश्व का भविष्य है, वह डी.एन.ए. टेक्नोलॉजी पर जा रहा है। पूरी दुनिया इस पर काम कर रही है। इस दुनिया के जितने भी जंतु हैं, उनमें से 50 से 70 प्रतिशत डी.एन.ए. सभी का एक ही है। उसके बाद उससे ज्यादा बढ़ता जाता है। इतने महत्वपूर्ण विधेयक को इतनी देर से लाया गया है। मैं सभी माननीय सदस्यों से अनुरोध करूंगा कि वे इसका समर्थन जरूर करें और इसको पास करें, सुधार होते रहेंगे। इस बिल पर मेरे भी दो एतराज हैं। इसमें हेल्थ मिनिस्ट्री को शामिल नहीं किया गया है। मुझे लगता है कि श्री हर्ष वर्धन जी, जो खुद पेशे से डाक्टर हैं, इसमें कहीं न कहीं हेल्थ एंड फैमिली वेलफेयर मंत्री का भी रोल होना चाहिए। DNA technology is all about biotechnology. इसमें हेल्थ मिनिस्ट्री को न रखने से थोड़ी-सी गड़बड़ी हो जाएगी। दूसरी बात मैं कहना चाहूंगा कि हमारे देश का एक बहुत बड़ा दुर्भाग्य है, वह है ब्यूरोक्रेटिक सुपिरिऑरिटी। सब चीज को बाबुओं के भरोसे कर दिया जाता है। डी.एन.ए. टेक्नोलॉजी इतनी स्पेसिफिक है कि मैं पोस्ट ग्रेजुएट इन मेडिकल साइंस हूं, फिर भी मेरी इसके बारे में बेसिक जानकारियां हैं। इस तरह अगर आप किसी को चेयरमैन बना रहे हैं, तो कम से कम उसको डी.एन.ए. टेक्नोलॉजी के बारे में पता सब कुछ पता हो, उसके बारे में जरूर विचार करने का माननीय मंत्री जी प्रयास करेंगे। 13 07 hrs                                   (Hon. Speaker  in  the  Chair) 

जो आदमी कल पेट्रोलियम मंत्रालय चला रहा हो, परसों कपड़ा मंत्रालय चला रहा हो, वह आकर डीएनए टैक्नोलॉजी का चेयरमैन हो जाए, यह एक सोचने वाली बात है, जिस पर मैं रिक्वेस्ट करूंगा। मुझे एक बात और कहनी है कि यह जो डेटा प्रोटेक्शन की बात थी, पूरे पर तो मैं एग्री नहीं करता हूं। विरोधी दल के जो माननीय संसद सदस्य बोल रहे थे, लेकिन जब भविष्य में इसकी ड्राफ्टिंग हो, तो कोई एक क्लाज़ जरूर बने कि जिसने अपना कन्सेन्ट दिया कि मेरा नाम हटाया जाए, उसका नाम हटा है या नहीं हटा है। अगर नहीं हटा है, तो उसके रेड्रेसल का एक फोरम हो, उसके बारे में इसमें जरूर विचार करना चाहिए। मैं इस वित्त संबंधी बात से भी एग्री करता हूं कि ये डी.एन.ए. टेक्नोलॉजी इतनी महत्वपूर्ण है, इसके लिए वाकई में बीस करोड़ रुपये बहुत कम हैं। जब बजट आए,  डी.एन.ए. पर पूरी की पूरी एक रिसर्च है। अध्यक्ष महोदया, मैं आपको बताना चाहूंगा कि पूरी दुनिया का हर देश अपने देशवासियों में पांच लाख, दस लाख लोगों की सैंपल प्रोफाइलिंग कर रहे हैं और विभिन्न मेडिकल साइंस के डायग्नोस्टिक टेस्ट के साथ यह प्रयास कर रहे हैं कि हम कैसे अपने देशवासियों को आनुवांशिक बीमारियों से दूर रख सकें। हमारे यहां भी एम्स में न्यूरो विभाग में यह चल रहा है, लेकिन वह बहुत ही छोटे स्तर पर है। इसको बड़े स्तर पर करने के लिए मैं डाक्टर हर्ष वर्धन साहब से अनुरोध करूंगा कि इसमें  विस्तार लाएं। यह जो डेटा बैंक का है, मुझे लगता है कि अमेरिका में जिस तरह से एफ.बी.आई. इसको रखती है, वैसे ही हमारे यहां पर सी.बी.आई. या कोई एक ऐसी बॉडी रखे, जहां पर सभी के डेटा को पूरी तरह से सीक्रेसी के साथ रखा जा सके। लेकिन रिसर्च में भी इसका उपयोग किया जा सके, बिना व्यक्ति की पहचान बताए हुए, इसके बारे में भी हमें सोचना पड़ेगा। अभी जो भविष्य का मेडिकल साइंस है, वह पूरा का पूरा डी.एन.ए पर आधारित है। आज हम जो एक 500 ग्राम एमॉक्सीसिलीन खाते हैं, कल पाइंट वन माइक्रोग्राम एमॉक्सीसिलीन से भी इतने स्पेसिफिक बैक्टीरिया के लिए काम चल सकता है। हम इस तरह से कर रहे हैं कि हर चीज को डी.एन.ए. पर आधारित करके भारत के व्यक्ति बीमारियों से दूर रहें और भारत के व्यक्तियों के बारे में जो भी संभव हो, उनकी मदद की जा सके। डाक्टर हर्ष वर्धन जी खुद स्वास्थ्य मंत्री रहे हैं, वह पेशे से डाक्टर हैं। डी.एन.ए. टेक्नोलॉजी का हेल्थ मिनिस्ट्री में कितने बढ़िया ढंग से इसका उपयोग किया जा सकता है और किस तरह से हम अपने देश के देशवासियों को बीमारियों से मुक्त कर सकते हैं। यह भविष्य की टेक्नोलॉजी है, इस पर जरूर विचार करेंगे। आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया, इसके लिए आपका बहुत धन्यवाद। SHRI KALYAN BANERJEE ( SREERAMPUR ): Madam, I convey my thanks for giving me an opportunity to speak on this Bill.  First of all, I would say that for a long period of time, there was an uncovered area for collecting DNA.  Unsecured situation is still existing for the purpose of collecting DNA.  In our criminal justice system or in any other system, even in case of an interrogation by police or anybody else, feelings of the people were insecure. But I must say that by bringing this Bill, this position has been settled.  I think, this Bill should have been brought long back.  Anyway, it has been brought. There is no doubt that it is very good for the criminal justice system, the civil system and more so for the people of this country.  There should not be any conception at any moment to any citizen of India for any purpose that he or she is insecure.  This conception has to be eradicated.  No doubt, so far as collecting the DNA, reserving it in laboratory, regulating all the laboratories etc. is concerned, all the details are there in this Bill.  Details have been given. I have only two or three things to say.  Wherever clarification is needed from my end, I will seek clarification.  Firstly, I must say that clause 21 (1) is really a good provision made in this Bill.  If someone is arrested, some allegations are there, nobody knows that his DNA would be collected.  Today, a provision has been made under clause 21 (1) that no bodily substances shall be taken from a person who is arrested for an offence (other than the specified offences) unless the consent is given in writing for the taking of the bodily substances.  This provision will secure everyone.  The fear which exists in the mind of any person, it has been eradicated by reason of clause 21 (1).  In the explanation to clause 21 (1), you have given the details of specified offences.  You have explained it. Clause 21 (2) also specifies that if a person does not give the consent, the investigating agency may make an application to the Magistrate.  The Magistrate will decide it rightly or wrongly, whatever it may be.  There is a chance to go for the judicial forum.  That is a different thing.  I am not going into it. But I have one question. I have one question that if any investigating agency or anybody is collecting DNA beyond the scope of section 21 or at the investigating stage when he is in the police custody, what is the safeguard? Kindly check that portion. Your object under section 21 is that no DNA should be taken up without consent.  If this is the object and if someone or some investigating agency or any other agency abuses that power, what steps would be taken against that person under this law?  If this is wrongly taken or forcibly taken, then your object under section 21 sub-section (1) would be frustrated.  This is one area which I am thinking about. If you come to the schedule, you will see the matters of DNA testing. The Motor Vehicles Act have been brought under Part B. I have no difficulty either with Immoral Traffic Prevention or with anything else. So far as civil disputes are concerned, you have given the issues relating to immigration or emigration and issues relating to establishment of individual identity. Now, Madam, I have a question to you, through Madam, that in a criminal case, unless consent in writing is given, nothing can be taken and if the investigating agency wants to take it, he has to make an application. But how a civil dispute would be covered?  Therefore, immigration authority will be having the excessive power to collect the DNA which is not your object. Your object is only with the consent.  One can accept a case where death sentence is there.  These are the specific offences which you have mentioned.  In a court of law, it can solve the paternity or paternal dispute or maternity dispute. In a case of illegal immigration, according to any State Government or any Government, this comes within the purview of civil dispute.  If this comes within the purview of civil dispute, then, what is the protection?  Today, it can be said that they are illegal immigrants. Similarly, there are issues relating to establishment of individual identity.   In respect of civil dispute, I want a clarification. Who will decide?  Therefore, this part needs to be answered. Then comes many other cases. In a case of medical negligence, how will DNA come into that?  Medical negligence means negligence on the part of a doctor.  It cannot be extended to the disease. Why will DNA come into that? There is an issue relating to abandoned children and disputed children.  So far as children’s DNA is concerned, until he attains 18 years of age, can you collect DNA?  Does it not violate another act- the Child Protection Rights Act ? Kindly consider that part and clarify to me. This Act has many laudable objectives.  So many preventive steps have been taken. People will be secure and things will be done properly. I also say that I thought about it earlier also. Since I am in the legal profession, earlier I thought that it should have been protected, and why this protection was not there. It was in my mind for long years. Today you have brought it. Anyway, it has come. Of course, I say that is fine. With these words, I conclude. DR. P.K. BIJU ( ALATHUR ): Madam Speaker, this is a very important Bill. For the first time in our country, the DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill, 2018 has been brought in. This Bill allows to establish a DNA Regulatory Board and also a DNA Data Bank. In regard to the DNA Data Bank, the Bill provides for the establishment of a National DNA Data Bank and for the Regional DNA Data Banks for every State or two or more States. The National Data Bank will store DNA profiles received from the DNA laboratories and receive DNA data from the regional banks. Every Data Bank will be required to maintain indices for the following categories of data:- (i) a crime scene index, (ii) a suspects’ or undertrials’ index, (iii) an offenders’ index, (iv) a missing persons’ index, and (v) an unknown deceased persons’ index. Madam Speaker, coming to the Financial Memorandum, Dr. Shashi Tharoor has already asked how we could maintain the DNA Data Bank in each State or two or more States. You have allotted only Rs.20 crore for that. How can we meet the expenses for establishing such a huge infrastructure? In the Financial Memorandum-3, clause 4 of the Bill provides for the constitution of a Fund to be called the DNA Regulatory Board Fund into which shall be credited grants and loans made to the Board or sums received by the Board, including fees or charge or donation from other sources that may be decided by the Central Government and any income from the investment of the amount of the Fund. That means, the DNA test is a highly expensive one in our State. It is very much difficult to get that much fund for the smooth functioning of this Board. Second, about the DNA Regulatory Board which this Bill seeks to establish for taking regulatory measures for the entire country, in the Western countries, in the developed countries like the United States of America, Britain and Canada, this has to be used for two purposes. One is for the crime purpose and the other is for the civil purpose. In the USA, every State in the nation collects DNA samples from those who are convicted of certain crimes for use in State and/or federal databanks. Currently, 49 States collect DNA samples from all felony convicts in the US. Each year, some States expand their convicted offender databases to include more classifications of convicted criminals. California and New York are the most expansive States. They collect DNA samples from all felony and misdemeanour conviction. On civil matters, in the United States, paternity testing is fully legal, and fathers may test their children without the consent or knowledge of the mother. Paternity testing take-home kits are readily available for purchase, though their results are not admissible in court, and are for personal knowledge only. Only a court-ordered paternity test may be used as evidence in court proceedings. So, it has far reaching implication in our society. How to restrict this? What is the mechanism to check the misuse of these things in future? The Minister may kindly explain how we check the misuse of this law in future in our country. Madam, in Britain, the National DNA Database (NDNAD) is the oldest and the largest DNA database. It is also the most inclusive national forensic DNA database in the world. In 1984, the British Parliament passed the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act, which provided the legal foundation of NDNAD. The Act allows police to take DNA samples without the consent from anyone charged with any offences, that is, classified as ‘recordable’ and also to search the database speculatively for matching profiles. This usage of DNA databases is basically of criminal nature. In civil nature, tests are summoned and ordered by the court when the proof of paternity is required. We also use DNA test for this purpose in our country. In the United Kingdom, the Ministry of Justice accredits bodies that can conduct these tests. There is no specification for such thing in this Bill whether private entities are allowed to conduct these tests or only the Government entities can conduct it. Madam, this data is very, very important. If private entities are allowed to play a role in this field, it will badly affect the privacy of our people. A few months back we noticed that the Aadhar data of our people got leaked. That is why even the oldest data bank of U.K. is in a big tussle between the common people and the Government. In Canada, the National DNA Databank respects consideration of generic privacy and follows strict guidelines specified in the DNA Identification Act. In civil nature, DNA paternity testing for personal knowledge is legal and home test kits are also available. Tests are sometimes ordered by the courts when proof of paternity is required. HON. SPEAKER: Please conclude. DR. P.K. BIJU : Madam, I conclude in a minute only. Madam Speaker, even the United Nations has appealed the countries to take appropriate steps to stop misuse of DNA testing and protect the privacy of individuals. So, I want to know from the Government what steps they have taken to protect the privacy of the people in this Bill. With these words, I request the Government to take measures to protect the privacy of the people and ensure that there is no misuse of this Act in future. Thank you very much. DR. BOORA NARSAIAH GOUD ( BHONGIR ): Thank you Madam for giving me this opportunity and I congratulate Shri Harsh Vardhan ji for bringing this long pending Bill. Madam, when I look at this Bill, I just remember - अभी पुलिस डंडे से नहीं, डीएनए टेक्नोलॉजी से काम चलाएगी। As you know, Madam, dandacan get a confession from anybody, more so from an innocent person. Madam, this Bill is very important. To illustrate the importance of this Bill, I will give an example of the first use of DNA technology in the United Kingdom in 1987. There was a young lady who was raped and murdered. For three years, the police could not find any suspect. After three years, at the same site, one more lady got raped and murdered. Finally, they caught a person whose name was Richard Buckland, who confessed that he had murdered the second lady and not the first one. However, the police found that he was right and had nothing to do with the first case. Then, the police took the help of the DNA finger printing technology. They took the samples of 5,500 people in the neighbourhood. Out of these samples, one sample matched with the samples taken from the crime scene. The name of the person whose sample matched was Colin Pitchfork. Finally, Colin Pitchfork was found guilty in both the cases. That was the first use of DNA technology. Now, let us come to India. Recently, there was a famous case of a senior politician over the fixation of parentage. As you know, the parentage was finally decided with the help of the DNA technology. The third issue is a social issue and related to what is happening across the country. It is about the lynchings taking place because of cow slaughter. Recently, in UP, it was found, by use of DNA technology, whether the milk was cow milk or bull milk. Finally, it turned out to be bull milk. So, the use of DNA technology now in criminal matters, in civil matters and in social matters is absolutely necessary. It is a long-pending thing. We wholeheartedly welcome this Bill. Some people may confuse, I can tell because I am a doctor, whether there can be some false reports on the basis of which conclusion is drawn. The reports of DNA technology do not match in respect of two persons among 30,000 million people. So, it cannot be matched for the entire population of world, except the identical twins. However, I would like to raise certain issues. There are two clauses – clauses 21 and 23 in civil matters – which state that no consent is required. There is no clarity in this matter. A civil matter comes when there is a dispute about the parentage and a child is claimed by different people. In such cases, consent is a must. Suppose, somebody says that he is a son or daughter of so and so person. You cannot just go and catch that person, take his sample because it will create a havoc. I think, there must be clarity with regard to the consent thing with regard to civil matters, whether consent of accused or victim is required, what the procedure is and whether it would require a Magistrate’s order. These things need to be clarified. DNA technology is already in use in crime investigations. Many of the cases in medical science are solved using DNA technology. One of the friends asked how DNA technology can be used in the case of medical negligence. It is absolutely necessary because ART, artificial reproductive technology, is in use today. Suppose, a fertility centre uses a wrong ovum or sperm, definitely DNA technology will help to pinpoint whether medical negligence was there or not. Definitely, in medical cases also, DNA technology is absolutely necessary to ascertain whether negligence was there. Now, I come to storage of data. Really, it impinges on the personal data privacy of an individual. I do not think that the Government or the Ministry has any plan to take DNA samples of 130 crore people of India. I think, they are going to use this law only in specified investigations. I would like to suggest one thing. There is a proposal that you have to erase all the DNA profiles after the investigation is over or the case is over. However, in the case of serial offenders, they move from State to State. Now-a-days, more than anybody else, criminals move across the country and across the world. In such cases, I think, we need to have a DNA databank of serious crimes and serial offenders. That is absolutely necessary. There is no clarity on storage of these profiles in the DNA laboratories. We need to have a clarity on this issue. With regard to databank, we have clarity. On the issue of regulatory board, we have clarity, but there is no clarity on clause 31(4) with regard to data storage in a DNA lab. That needs to be clarified. Now, I come to the last point which is very futuristic. They have put clause 23(b) which talks of sample collection from the widow and photographic evidence. At present, there is no technology available to look at, which tries to take a DNA print-out of it. As far as my knowledge goes, there is no technology available to have a visual DNA. Maybe, it is futuristic. I would request the Minister to clarify this point. Before I conclude, I wholeheartedly welcome the Bill on behalf of my TRS Party. Thank you very much. श्री कौशलेन्द्र कुमार ( नालंदा ): अध्यक्ष महोदया, आपने मुझे डीएनए प्रौद्योगिकी (प्रयोग और लागू होना) विनियमन विधेयक, 2018 की चर्चा में भाग लेने का मौका दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद करता हूं। मैं माननीय मंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं कि देर से ही आपने यह बिल लाकर देशवासियों को एक बड़ी चीज दी है। यह विधेयक मूलरूप में अपराधियों, पीड़ितों, संदिग्धों, विचाराधीन आरोपियों, गुमशुदा व्यक्तियों और अज्ञात मृतकों की पहचान स्थापित करने तथा अन्य मामलों में डीएनए प्रौद्योगिकी इस्तेमाल के नियमन की व्यवस्था के लिए है। यह बिल काफी सराहनीय है। सरकार राष्ट्रीय और क्षेत्रीय स्तर पर डीएनए डाटा बैंक बनाने का नियमन कर रही है। इसे विदेशी एजेंसियों से भी साझा करने का प्रस्ताव है। यह कार्य डीएनए रेगुलेटरी बोर्ड से अनुमति मिलने के बाद ही किया जाएगा। यह बोर्ड डीएनए टेक्नोलॉजी के अधिकतम उपयोग और इसके न्यायिक प्रक्रिया में उपयोग के लिए सुझाव भी देगा। वैसे तो नियमन काफी सख्त और सुरक्षित बनाया जा रहा है, किंतु किसी भी नागरिक की सुरक्षा और निजता का उल्लंघन न हो, इसकी पक्की व्यवस्था होनी चाहिए। किसी भी परिस्थिति में आम नागरिकों की निजता से खिलवाड़ नहीं होना चाहिए। सरकार को यह बात सुरक्षित करनी होगी। सरकार यह संशय भी दूर करने का काम करे कि पुलिस द्वारा डीएनए डाटा का किसी भी परिस्थिति में दुरुपयोग न हो। मैं इस बिल का समर्थन करता हूं।  बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Madam Speaker, thank you. I fully endorse the views, concerns and suggestions already expressed by learned Member, Dr. Shashi Tharoor. I fully agree with the hon. Minister that the DNA technology has the potential for wide application in the judicial delivery system, both in criminal as well as civil cases. It will definitely help in investigating crimes through biological evidences. As far as civil cases are concerned, it will help in investigation relating to the identification of victims of disasters like cyclone, air crash, etc. 

I am having two concerns regarding this Bill. The first one is regarding the right to privacy. It has already been stated in this House that the entire House and the people of this country are demanding for a data protection legislation every day.  Even after passing legislation like Aadhar, etc. in Parliament, we are not able to have a data protection legislation in order to protect the individuals’ rights or the right of privacy. The hon. Minister, in his opening remarks, has assured the House that this DNA profile which will be collected, will be well protected in the DNA bank. How will it be protected without having a legislation? If the assurance made by the hon. Minister has to be complied with, then definitely some legislation is highly required so that the DNA profile collected from various persons is not misused in any way. Such a legislative mechanism is required. Since the data protection legislation with stringent provision is absent in this country, how will the Government be able to protect the DNA profile which is being collected? So, there are ample chances of misuse of DNA profile. Therefore, that is the first apprehension I have. The second one is regarding Clause 21 of the Bill. I think that is the most contentious provision in this Bill. As per Clause 21 (1), “No bodily substances shall be taken from a person who is arrested for an offence (other than the specified offences) unless the consent is given in writing for taking of the bodily substances.”  So, ‘consent’ is the cardinal point. It is very easy to have  consent of a person who is in police custody. That means the fundamental right, which has been enunciated in Puttaswamy case by the 9-member Constitutional Bench in the Supreme Court, the Right to Privacy is being violated.  It means that the police can take the consent of a particular person who is in custody and whose consent is required. Madam, this is against the mandatory right, that is fundamental right, which is being brought in article 20 , clause 3. Madam, by virtue of article 23 , no person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself. Suppose, by virtue of clause 21, an accused, who is under police custody, who is arrested, is being compelled to be a witness against his own case, it is against the fundamental right in article 20 , clause 3. Madam, for the specified offences, even the consent is not required. That means, an offence which involves death sentence or more than 7 years penalty, the consent is not required. The Magistrate can arbitrarily make an order by which the DNA profile of such a person can be taken. He is not being provided with an opportunity of hearing also.  I have given a notice of an amendment.  When a Magistrate takes cognizance of the case, the accused shall be given an opportunity of hearing as to why the DNA profile shall not be taken.  That opportunity should also be given. Madam, I would also like to say that in modern era of science and technology especially the DNA technology and the development of the bio-technology, it is very easy even to change the DNA. Even in China, they are now altering the DNA for producing super human beings. Babies of super human character are being produced. So, the chances of misuse of DNA profile are there. Mere having a data bank and the regulatory board will not be sufficient to protect the DNA profiles. That will be violating the right to have the privacy of a particular individual. In other case also, the hon. Supreme Court has very specifically stated. So, my submission to the hon. Minister is, these two concerns which I have expressed and the other concerns which have already been expressed in the House may be taken into consideration. That is why, I am suggesting that this Bill, having far-reaching ramifications, may kindly be sent to the Parliamentary Standing Committee to have a close scrutiny of all the concerns, anguish and apprehensions which have already been made in this House. With these words, I conclude.  Thank you very much. SHRI PREM DAS RAI ( SIKKIM ): I thank you Madam Speaker.  I rise to support the Bill that is under consideration.  I thank the hon. Minister for bringing this Bill, which, like others, I also feel, needed to be brought in order to regulate the use of DNA data and DNA technology. Madam, as others have expressed, there is a lot of good use and there is also a lot of bad use. One of the reasons as to why we need this particular Bill is, because of the ease with which today, DNA can be sliced and diced. As already has been made by some of the hon. Members, today, technology has reached such a level that even         with the use of artificial intelligence and with very little attendant technology, we are able to build the DNA profile of anybody.  That is why, it needs a thorough understanding of not only the forensic science. It is an accompaniment of it. It is used in criminal as well as in civil cases, in the area of genomics and also in the area of cloning. Therefore, this Bill comes with some regulation. The regulatory framework needs to map out a much wider area of science which is fast becoming the norm all over the world. Hence, Madam, these two particular uses of DNA technology will lead to the issue of privacy. Therefore, as regards the issue of right to privacy, a law that looks at privacy needs to go hand in hand with this. I would also like to mention that whilst we are building up these banks and whilst we are building up the way in which States are also being brought 

  

  

  

into the picture, I think that it requires a far more and much more deeper look into this whole issue. However, for the time being, this particular Bill is to be supported because it is a good start. Thank you very much. With these words, I support the Bill. विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी मंत्री, पृथ्वी विज्ञान मंत्री तथा पर्यावरण, वन और जलवायु परिवर्तन मंत्री (डॉ. हर्ष वर्धन):  माननीय अध्यक्ष जी, मैं सबसे पहले सभी माननीय सदस्यों का हृदय से धन्यवाद करना चाहता हूं कि  उन्होंने इस बिल को पढ़कर इसके बारे में बहुत से बहुमूल्य ओपिनियन दिए हैं। मैं इस बात के लिए भी धन्यवाद करना चाहता हूं कि  सभी ने ब्रॉडली बिल की आवश्यकता और स्पिरिट को एप्रिशिएट किया  है। माननीय अध्यक्ष जी, कुछ चीजें बैडली एक्सप्रैस की गई हैं, मैं उसके संदर्भ में कुछ स्टेटमेंट देना चाहता हूं। प्राइवेसी कन्सर्न्स के बारे में बहुत से लोगों ने कहा है। मैंने ओपनिंग रिमार्क में कहा था कि 2011 में साइंस एंड टेक्नोलॉजी मिनिस्टर स्वयं एक एडवोकेट थे, बिल सात-आठ साल की यात्रा कर चुका था, उस समय उन्होंने कहा था कि  इसमें सब कुछ करने के बाद फिर प्राइवेसी कन्सर्न्स को देखिए। इसके लिए एक एक्सपर्ट कमेटी बनाई गई थी। मैं एक्सपर्ट कमेटी के लोगों के नाम भी दे सकता हूं। दो साल तक प्राइवेसी कन्सर्न के बारे में चार बड़ी मीटिंग्स की गईं और बहुत डिसकशन हुआ। इसमें सारे विषयों को एन्श्योर किया गया कि  किसी भी प्रकार से प्राइवेसी कन्सर्न्स पूरी तरह से एड्रैस होने चाहिए। इसके बाद करीब छ:-सात साल बाद 2017 तक लंबी यात्रा करने के बाद जब यह बिल पार्लियामेंट के सामने आने की स्थिति में आया, माननीय राजनाथ जी की अध्यक्षता में फाइनल ग्रुप आफ मिनिस्टर्स की कमेटी थी, उसमें लॉ मिनिस्टर ने कहा कि  आधार एक्ट बन रहा है, इसके कांटेक्स्ट में इसे फिर से लॉ मिनिस्ट्री में भेज दीजिए जबकि लॉ मिनिस्ट्री में 10-12 साल में बहुत बारीकी से चर्चा हुई थी। उस समय आधार एक्ट के परिप्रेक्ष्य में पूरे सैक्शन 6 को रीविजिट करके नए सिरे से लिखा गया । अब डीएनए टैस्टिंग हो रही है, जिनको जरूरत है और जिनके लिए यह बिल बनाया जा रहा है, बेसिकली ये लोग एक प्रतिशत से भी बहुत कम हैं। देश में हर रोज बहुत व्यक्ति अपना ब्लड टैस्ट कराते हैं, युरिन का सैम्पल देते हैं, कोई स्वैब देते हैं। अगर हम मिसयूज की बात कहें तो मिसयूज तो किसी भी चीज का किसी भी स्तर तक हो सकता है। देश में हर नागरिक डॉक्टर के पास सैम्पल देता है, उसका भी मिसयूज हो सकता है, किसी भी रूप में हो सकता है। मेरा कहना है कि  प्राइवेसी की जो बात कही गई है, पोटेंशियल आफ मिसयूज की बात कही गई है, the potential misuse of DNA samples is not restricted to the biological material, which is collected under the provisions of this DNA Bill alone. Any and every blood sample collected by clinical laboratory has the same potential for misuse. With regard to DNA Profiles, I have to say that the privacy concerns are minimal since the information that is to be stored does not reveal -- as I said earlier also -- any of the traits of an individual. After a sample has been used for generating a DNA Profile, it is often important to store the DNA sample in case the Profiling has to be repeated for any reason. Such DNA samples are liable for misuse, and the Bill provides to prescribe safeguards for proper storage and penal provisions to protect against misuse. इस तरह से बहुत से छोटे-छोटे सजैशन्‍स दिए गए हैं। जब इतना कॉम्प्रिहेन्सिव बिल होता है तो हर एक छोटे से छोटा एस्पेक्ट बेसिक बिल के कंटेंट में कभी इन्कलूड नहीं किया जाता है। इम्प्लीमेंटेशन के बहुत सारे पहलू होते हैं, जिनको रूल्स के अंदर शामिल किया जाता है। इस बिल के बनने से लेकर इस स्टेज तक आने में, it has taken almost 14-15 years. इसी प्रकार किसी को लगता है कि कोई भी आस्पेक्ट इस बिल के अंदर एडजस्ट नहीं हो रहा है, इसके अंदर जो दूसरे लॉज़ हैं, The bill has provisions to enter into agreements with the concerned investigating agencies, organisations or institutions as deemed appropriate. It has provisions to ensure privacy protection including accuracy, security and confidentiality of the DNA information. There is a Chapter 6 on protection of information. There are provisions to ensure that the information relating to DNA profiles, DNA samples and any records thereof forwarded or in custody of the National DNA Data Bank or the Regional DNA Data Bank or a DNA laboratory or any other person or authority are secured and kept confidential and shall be used only for the purposes of facilitating identification of  person and not for any other purpose. The data maintained in the DNA Data Bank shall be made available only for the purposes as specified in the bill. मैं खासकर श्री शशि थरूर जी को ध्यान दिलाना चाहूंगा। For the sake of making a speech, he has said many things. इस बिल को इस स्तर तक लाने के लिए डॉ.मुरली मनोहर जोशी जी के बाद दस साल उनकी सरकार रही, उनकी सरकार में किसी ने इसके ऊपर किसी तरह का कोई ऐप्रिहेंशन एक्सप्रेस नहीं किया। सबने इसको आगे बढ़ाने की कोशिश की है। श्री पृथ्वीराज चौहान, श्री कपिल सिब्बल जी, श्री अश्विनी कुमार जी, श्री पवन कुमार बंसल जी, श्री विलास राव देशमुख जी,  श्री वायलार रवि जी और डॉ.जयपाल रेड्डी - ये सात माननीय मुख्य मंत्री पिछली सरकार के हैं, उन्होंने इस बिल को आगे बढ़ाने का प्रयास किया है। इसलिए मेरा शशि थरूर जी से कहना है कि इसको बहुत गहराई और बहुत गंभीरता से देखें। उन्होंने स्पेसिफिकली कई सारी चीजें कहीं हैं। जैसे मैंने अभी कहा कि उनके जो स्पेसिफिक सवाल थे, उनका मैं संक्षिप्त में जवाब देने की कोशिश करता हूं। अभी मैंने प्रोटेक्शन ऑफ इनफार्मेशन के बारे कहा है, क्योंकि उन्होंने इसके बारे में बहुत ज्यादा कहा था। चैप्टर-6 में यह बहुत अच्छी तरह से कवर्ड है। International standards have been followed only on non-coding DNA details. उन्होंने कोडिंग और नॉन कोडिंग की बात की थी। Shri N.K. Premachandran has said that he is endorsing what Dr. Shashi Tharoor has said. That is why, I wanted to inform Shri Premachandran that in this Bill also, exact international standards have been followed only on non-coding DNA details will be in the rules. DNA profile would only depict identity of an individual. This will be limited only to the specific category and for the entire population.  Privacy issues have also been addressed. Effective consent has been covered broadly in the Bill. Details will be under the rules. As I said earlier, this is according to the CrPC . The rules will clearly specify the details of collection  and usage of DNA; removal of DNA profiles have clearly been covered in the Bill. वे डी.एन.ए. रेगुलेटरी बोर्ड के मेम्बर्स के बारे में भी कमेंट करके गये थे। It has experts from the field of forensic, Human Rights Commission and ethics also. बहुत-सारे लोगों ने कास्ट के बारे में कमेंट किया है। यह जो बिल है, यह देश का कानून है। इस कानून के तहत देश के अंदर कहा-कहां लैब्स बनेंगी, चूंकि इस बिल का काम लैब बनाना नहीं है। लैब बनाने के लिए कन्संर्ड सरकारें हैं, कन्संर्ड मंत्रालय हैं, कन्संर्ड एजेंसीज़ हैं या दूसरे लोग हैं। जो डिटेल्ड कास्ट इसमें प्रोवाइड किये गये हैं, that is only for the setting up of the Secretariat. Other cost details will actually be for strengthening of infrastructure, which will be taken care of in due course of time from the respected areas. All the details of collection, removal and procedures will be covered. There is no linking with the Aadhaar Act. Only protection of information has been synchronised with Aadhaar as I said in 2017 itself. संजय जायसवाल जी ने दो बातें कही हैं। शायद उनको यह गलतफहमी है कि इसमें हेल्थ मिनिस्ट्री है। मैं उनको  दो-तीन बातें बताना चाहता हूं कि जो पहली कमेटी थी, प्रधानमंत्री जी ने जो ग्रुप ऑफ मिनिस्टर्स बनाया था, उसमें आदरणीय राजनाथ सिंह जी, श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज जी, श्री अरुण जेटली जी, नितिन गडकरी जी, मनोहर पर्रिकर जी, अनन्त कुमार जी, जगत प्रकाश नड्डा जी, जुएल ओराम जी, डॉ. जितेन्द्र सिंह जी, निर्मला सीतारमण जी, वाई.एस.चौधरी जी, के.मजूमदार जी, डॉ. हर्षवर्धन, श्री अजीत डोवाल, राजीव महर्षि, डायरेक्टर इंटेलिजेंस ब्यूरो और सेक्रेटरी, कैबिनेट सेक्रिटैरिएट और स्पेशल सेक्रेटरी (इंटरनल सिक्योरिटी) शामिल थे। इतनी एग्जास्टिव, कांप्रिहेंसिव और इतनी थॉरो कोई और कमेटी नहीं हो सकती है। उन्होंने जो दूसरी बात कही कि कोई हेल्थ मिनिस्टर होगा, इसका चेयरमैन डी.बी.टी. का सेक्रेटरी होगा। डी.बी.टी. का सेक्रेटरी कोई आई.ए.एस. ऑफिसर नहीं होता है, वह एक साइंटिस्ट होता है और वह बॉयो-टेक्नोलॉजी की फील्ड का ही एक्सपर्ट होता है। इस बिल के अंदर अपील का प्रॉविजन कवर किया गया है। मैं समझता हूं कि संजय जी का विषय इसमें निश्चित रूप से कवर हो गया है। कल्याण बनर्जी साहब बहुत लर्नेड लॉयर हैं, I have to express my gratitude to him कि उन्होंने इसकी जरूरत को भी एन्डोर्स किया और इसको एप्रिशिएट किया। This Bill has chapter 8 on Penalty and Offences which, I think, takes care of all the issues. If there is any issue which is uncovered, we assure that it will be taken care of in the rules itself. Regarding Motor Vehicles Act, it is for accident matters and for all schedules. The collection of DNA samples will be governed by section 21 , sub-section (1). For child, parents’ consent has to be taken, as per the provision in the Bill. इसी तरह मैंने जो बजटरी रिक्वायरमेंट की बात कही, पी.के. बिजू साहब ने बताया है कि सारी दुनिया के देशों में क्या-क्या हो रहा है। हमने सारे इंटरनेशनल स्टैंडर्ड्स को स्टडी करके, उन्होंने दूसरे देशों की जो बातें कही हैं, जो पढ़कर सुनाया है, उन सभी बातों को हमने इसमें एनश्योर किया है। इसी तरह से फाइनेंशियल मेमोरेंडम के बारे में बात कही गई है। डॉ. गौड़ साहब ने जो बातें कही हैं, वे सभी इसमें आलरेडी कवर्ड हैं और अगर कुछ कवर्ड नहीं है तो वह रूल्स में कवर होगा। कौशलेन्द्र कुमार जी ने इसका सपोर्ट किया है, मैं उनको धन्यवाद देता हूं। मैं समझता हूं कि एन.के. प्रेमचन्द्रन जी ने जिस एक अमेंडमेंट का जिक्र किया है, वह अमेंडमेंट की बात करेंगे, मेरा सिर्फ यही कहना है कि This provision is only for heinous crimes. Section 53A of the CrPC, (Amendment Act, 2005) already has a provision for blood samples to be collected without consent or Magistrate order for certain offences – ‘Rape’ or ‘Attempt to Rape’.  The other countries like US, UK, Argentina and    Scotland have similar provisions  which allow collection of samples by the order of police officer without consent or magistrate order for similar heinous crimes. In the proposed Bill, this provision is only restricted to specified offences which have more than 7 years imprisonment or death penalty. जैसा डॉ. बूरा साहब ने भी कहा है, regarding clause 21 and 23, the consent is mandatory except for specified offences. I assure you that the details of storage, collection etc. will be provided in the rules. श्री रामचन्द्रन ने जो बात कही है, misuse of DNA profiles has already been covered in detail under the Penalty and Offences. The consent should be allowed for specified offences. This provision is only for heinous crimes, as I said just now. अध्यक्ष जी, मेरी सभी मेंबर्स से रिक्वेस्ट है कि जिन माननीय सदस्यों ने इसके बारे में कमेंट किया है, मैं उनके प्रति आभारी हूं कि उन्होंने इसे बहुत ध्यान से पढ़ा है, बहुत बारीकी से इसके ऊपर ऑब्जर्वेशन्स भी की हैं। मैं आपको इतना विश्वास दिलाता हूं कि इस बिल को आपके बीच लाने से पहले बहुत गहराई से कई बार अध्ययन किया गया है। मैं स्पेशली प्रधानमंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं कि इतनी स्क्रूटनी के बाद भी जब हम कैबिनेट में जाते थे, वे कहते थे कि इसे और ज्यादा, यहां से भी स्क्रूटनी करा लो । 14 00hrs 

‍          अभी मैंने 12-15 मिनिस्टर्स की कमेटी की बात की है, उसके बाद जब यह बिल्कुल फाइनल हो रहा था तो फिर वर्ष 2017 में उन्होंने राजनाथ जी की अध्यक्षता में चार-पांच मिनिस्टर्स की कमेटी बना दी। उस कमेटी ने फिर एक नई बात कर दी, जिसके कारण छ: महीने, साल भर उस पर काम हुआ है। मैं आपको आश्वस्त करता हूं कि  इस बिल के माध्यम से सरकार की इंटेंशन वही है जो वर्ष 2003 में देश के प्रतिष्ठित जजेज ऑर लॉयर्स की थी, जिन्होंने हैदराबाद की मीटिंग में यह कहा था कि साइंस का प्रयोग क्रिमिनल जस्टिस डिलिवरी सिस्टम में और बेहतर ढंग से करने के लिए दुनिया के देशों की तरह देश को भी कुछ करना चाहिए । ऐसा नहीं है कि  डीएनए  टेस्ट पहली बार होगा । डीएनए की फिंगर प्रिंटिंग और दूसरी चीजों के टेस्ट पहले भी हो रहे थें। इन सारे को रेगुलेट करना और इसका दुरुपयोग कोई न कर सके, इसके लिए बिल है, इससे कैसे दुरुपयोग होगा? अगर दुरुपयोग हो रहा होता तो उसको रोकने के लिए ही बेसिकली यह बिल गया है। जैसे-जैसे समय के अनुसार आवश्यकता होगी रूल्स में चेंजेज हो सकते हैं। अगर समय के साथ, एक्सपीरियंस के साथ किसी भी स्टेज  पर, इसमें कोई भी अमेंडमेंट ला कर, क्योंकि यह पार्लियमेंट सुप्रीम है, इसको फरदर इम्प्रूव कर सकती है। अध्यक्ष जी, मेरा यह निवेदन है कि  इस बिल को पास किया जाए। यह बहुत लम्बे समय से चिरप्रतीक्षित बिल देश के लिए है और देश के सारे लोग इसका इंतजार कर रहे हैं। HON. SPEAKER: The question is: