TEJAS KARIA, J I.A. 27016/2025 1. Defendant Nos. 1, 2, 3, 7, 8 and 9 ("Defendants") have filed the
 present Application under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
 1996 ("Act") to dismiss the Suit and refer the dispute in the Suit to
 arbitration and appoint a Sole Arbitrator for adjudication of the disputes that
 have arisen between the Parties. CONTROVERSY IN THE SUIT: 2. The Plaintiff is engaged in the business of providing hardware and
 software maintenance services to customers across the globe. It is the
 Plaintiff's case that the Plaintiff manages its business by using various
 proprietary tools and software it developed in USA, Canada and India
 beginning in 2002 and are at the core of its business to provide IT services to
 its various clients. 3. According to the Plaintiff, during the fourth quarter of the financial
 year 2020-21, the Plaintiff allegedly observed a sharp and unexplained
 decline in contract renewal business. Upon conducting independent
 enquiries to ascertain the cause, it was allegedly revealed that the
 Defendants, acting in concert and without the knowledge of the third
 director, Ms. Christine Appleby, had unlawfully diverted several of the
 Plaintiff's clients to Defendant No. 1. 4. It is the Plaintiff's case that this diversion of business was not
 incidental, but was the result of a coordinated scheme orchestrated by
 Defendant Nos. 2 and 3, who were at the relevant time directors of the
 Plaintiff and now the directors of Defendant No. 1. It is further alleged by
 the Plaintiff that the Defendants systematically diverted the Plaintiff's
 clients, manpower and resources to Defendant No. 1, thereby hollowing out
 the Plaintiff's business and leaving it without sufficient cash flow to meet its
 operational obligations. 5. It is further the Plaintiff's case that to facilitate this diversion, the
 Defendants represented to the Plaintiff's clients and employees that the
 Plaintiff was undergoing a rebranding exercise and that Defendant No. 1
 was a sister concern through which all future renewals would be processed. 6. As per the Plaintiff, the background to the incorporation of Defendant
 No. 1 is also material to the present controversy since owing to certain legal
 complications involving the Plaintiff's parent company in the United States
 in 2017, one of large customers of the Plaintiff was reluctant to contract
 directly with the Plaintiff and, therefore, Defendant No. 2, along with one
 Mr. Bernd Appleby, the majority shareholder, proposed the incorporation of
 a separate entity for the limited purpose of approaching the said large
 customer and other companies who were unwilling to deal directly with the
 Plaintiff. Accordingly, the majority shareholders of the Plaintiff consented
 for the incorporation of Defendant No. 1 on 28.01.2020, with Defendant
 Nos. 2 and 3 as its directors. 7. It is the Plaintiff's case that the said arrangement was exploited by
 Defendant Nos. 2 and 3 to divert not merely restricted accounts, but all other
 clients and business opportunities of the Plaintiff to Defendant No. 1. It is
 alleged by the Plaintiff that while clients were serviced using the Plaintiff's
 manpower, expensive hardware, parts, and infrastructure, payments were
 routed to the bank accounts of Defendant No. 1. Through this mechanism,
 the Defendants are alleged to have siphoned off service contracts exceeding
 ₹ 3.70 crores, involving at least 115 client contracts. 8. It is further alleged by the Plaintiff that the Defendants have copied
 the Plaintiff's software, its appearance, overall logic, source code, and
 associated materials to service diverted clients and that the Collaboration
 Agreement dated 28.01.2020 ("Collaboration Agreement"), is also
 allegedly a fabricated document executed without the knowledge or consent
 of the third director or the shareholders of the Plaintiff in an attempt to
 conceal these allegedly illegal activities. 9. It is the Plaintiff's case that upon the allegedly deceitful conduct of
 the Defendants coming to light in March 2021, Defendant Nos. 2, 3 and
 certain other Defendants were terminated or resigned from the Plaintiff and,
 thereafter, joined Defendant No. 1. It is alleged by the Plaintiff that
 Defendant No. 2, being an authorised signatory to the Plaintiff's bank
 accounts, froze the Plaintiff's bank accounts, thereby preventing the Plaintiff
 from disbursing payments to its suppliers and employees and coercing the
 Plaintiff into executing an Exit Agreement dated 30.04.2021 ("Exit
 Agreement"), which was presented as a precondition for unfreezing the
 bank accounts and as a means for Defendant No. 2 to absolve himself and
 others of their liabilities. Owing to the urgent financial crisis created by the
 said actions, the Plaintiff was compelled to execute the Exit Agreement
 under coercion and duress. 10. It is the Plaintiff's case that perusal of document created by Defendant
 No. 1's titled 'TPMGuru Ticketing System and Call Management' allegedly
 demonstrates copying of the Plaintiff's software, references to service
 records and system location parameters that could only have originated from
 the Plaintiff's database. It is the Plaintiff's case that such acts constitute
 infringement of the Plaintiff's copyright and misappropriation of the
 Plaintiff's software. 11. It is under these circumstances that the Plaintiff has instituted the
 present Suit for permanent injunction restraining the Defendants from
 infringing the Plaintiff's copyright, for damages and rendition of accounts. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANTS: 12. The learned Counsel for the Defendants made the following
 submissions: 12.2. Clause 2.7 of the Collaboration Agreement also enabled both
 contracting parties to access / use resources and infrastructure of
 the other party without payment of any compensation.
 12.3. The Plaintiff has approached this Court with unclean hands as it
 has suppressed the material facts pertaining to the Exit Agreement
 by and between (i) Plaintiff (ii) Plaintiff's Director, Ms. Christine
 Florence Appleby (DIN: 08425036) in the capacity of authorized
 representative of both the Plaintiff and Terix International Pte.
 Ltd., Singapore i.e., the holding company of the Plaintiff, which
 was ultimately controlled by Mr. Bernd Dudley Appleby, who is
 husband of Ms. Christine Florence Appleby, (iii) Mr. Bernd
 Dudley Appleby as a confirming party, (iv) Mr. James Olding as a
 confirming party, (v) Defendant Nos. 2 and 3 i.e., the directors of
 the Plaintiff at that time, and (vi) Defendant No. 9.
 12.4. The Plaintiff is attempting to agitate some issues, which were
 subject matter of the Exit Agreement in this Suit, however, all the
 concerned parties thereto had mutually agreed that in the event of
 any dispute in connection thereof would be referred to arbitration
 in terms of Clause 9 of the Exit Agreement. Clause 9 of the Exit
 Agreement provides as under: 12.5. The Plaintiff had also executed the Exit Agreement with the
 Registrar of Companies ("Form MGT-14"), NCT of Delhi and
 Haryana, Ministry of Corporate Affairs in terms of section
 117(3)(h) of the Companies Act, 2013. The Form MGT-14 was
 digitally signed by the Plaintiff's Director, Ms. Christine Florence
 Appleby on behalf of the Plaintiff and was certified by a practicing
 Company Secretary, one Ms. Sonika Bharti having FCS No. 7335
 and COP No. 8011. 12.6. Under Section 8 of the Act, this Court may refer the Parties to
 arbitration in terms of their arbitration agreements. The limited
 scope of judicial scrutiny at the stage of Section 8 of the Act
 extends only to the determination of the following aspects: Upon fulfilment of these conditions, the judicial authority is
 statutorily mandated to refer the parties to arbitration, thereby
 upholding the legislative policy of minimal judicial interference as
 envisaged under Section 5 of the Act. 12.7. Reliance was placed on Eros International Media Ltd. v. Telemax
 Links India Ltd. & Ors. , 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 2179 wherein
 the Bombay High Court rejected the submission made by the
 plaintiff therein that all the arbitration clauses pertaining to
 copyright matters must be treated as entirely null, void and otiose.
 12.8. The present Application is being filed at first instance. Therefore,
 this Court may allow the Application and dismiss the Suit being
 barred under Section 5 read with Section 8 of the Act and appoint
 a Sole Arbitrator for adjudication of the disputes that have arisen
 between the Parties. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF: 13. The learned Counsel for the Plaintiff made the following submissions: The infringement of such rights is governed by the statute and not
 by any private agreement. 13.5. Reliance was placed on Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home
 Finance Ltd. , (2011) 5 SCC 532, to submit that the copyright
 infringement claims being actions in rem are non-arbitrable, and
 are matters reserved for the exclusive jurisdiction of civil courts
 and Supreme Court in Booz Allen (supra) drew a fundamental
 distinction between rights in rem and in personam, holding that Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 9 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 actions enforcing rights in rem are non-arbitrable. Reliance was
 further placed on Mundipharma AG v. Wockhardt Ldd., (1990)
 SCC Online Del 269, wherein the Delhi High Court observed as
 under: 13.6. The Copyright Act manifests legislative intent for adjudication by
 public fora, wherein Section 55 of the Copyright Act provides
 statutory remedies for infringement, Section 62(1) of the
 Copyright Act confers jurisdiction exclusively upon the District
 Court having jurisdiction. This statutory conferment of jurisdiction
 cannot be ousted by private agreement. 13.7. Reliance was placed on Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading
 Corporation , (2021) 2 SCC 1 to submit that the disputes are non-
 arbitrable: Nibro Ltd. v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. , AIR 1991 Del 25 to
 submit that a company acts through its Board of Directors and an
 individual director has no authority to act on behalf of the
 company unless so authorised by the Board of Directors.
 13.11. Further, as Defendant No. 2 was also the de facto promoter and
 controlling mind of Defendant No. 1 i.e., the counterparty to the
 same agreement, the transaction constitutes self-dealing and
 conflict of interest. 13.12. The alleged Collaboration Agreement was, assuming the best case
 of the contesting Defendants, a temporary operational arrangement
 between the Parties when the same individuals managed both
 entities, therefore, the subsequent Exit Agreement, executed by
 those very individuals, formalised their separation and the same
 would have terminated all of the alleged collaborative
 relationships. 13.13. Upon execution of the Exit Agreement and cessation of joint
 operations, the alleged Collaboration Agreement became
 'impossible of further performance' and stood discharged by
 novation under Section 62 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.
 13.14. Clause 7 of the Collaboration Agreement provides for arbitration
 of disputes 'in relation to this agreement.' The present dispute
 concerning unauthorised copying and use of proprietary software
 even otherwise, does not arise in relation to the Collaboration
 Agreement, but from independent statutory violations committed Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 12 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 after the alleged collaboration ended. Consequently, the alleged
 Collaboration Agreement neither subsists nor governs the present
 dispute, and that its arbitration clause is inoperative, and Section 8 of the Act has no application to the facts of the present case.
 13.15. The Exit Agreement merely formalised the resignation and
 separation of some of the Defendants from the Plaintiff. All
 obligations under the Exit Agreement including resignation of
 directors, transfer of control, hand-over of accounts, and payment
 of dues were completed immediately upon execution. The Exit
 Agreement has been fully performed and stands satisfied and
 exhausted. No continuing obligation or dispute concerning the Exit
 Agreement's implementation exists. 13.16. Clause 9 of the Exit Agreement provides for arbitration of disputes
 'in connection with the interpretation or implementation of this
 Agreement.' The Suit does not concern interpretation or
 implementation of any terms of the Exit Agreement. Therefore, the
 lis between the Parties is not concerned with the Exit Agreement in
 any manner. The Exit Agreement, having been fully satisfied, is
 non est for the purpose of Section 8 of the Act, and that its
 arbitration clause cannot be revived to oust this Court's
 jurisdiction. 13.17. Section 8 of the Act can be invoked only where the parties to the
 suit are also parties to the arbitration agreement. The contesting
 Defendants seek to invoke two distinct arbitration clauses, one in
 the alleged Collaboration Agreement between the Plaintiff, and
 Defendant No. 1, and another in the Exit Agreement between the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 13 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 Plaintiff, and Defendant Nos. 2, 3 and 9. Also, not all the
 Defendants are parties to either agreement. Several other
 Defendants are not signatories to any arbitration agreement
 whatsoever. Reliance was placed on Sukanya Holdings Pvt. Ltd,
 v. Jayesh H. Pandya , (2003) 5 SCC 531 wherein it was observed
 that: The Suit involves both signatory and non-signatory Defendants,
 and a single composite cause of action arising out of intertwined
 acts of infringement, diversion, and misuse. The reliefs sought are Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 14 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 joint and several; the claims cannot be split or partly referred to
 arbitration. 13.18. Reliance was further placed on Ameet Lalchand Shah v. Rishabh
 Enterprises , (2018) 15 SCC 678 to submit that non-signatories can
 be bound to arbitration only when a single composite transaction is
 shown to exist with mutual intent to arbitrate and that no such case
 is made out here. The Collaboration Agreement and Exit
 Agreement are separate in time, subject-matter, and parties and
 that there being no common arbitration agreement encompassing
 all the Defendants, Section 8 of the Act cannot be invoked in the
 present case. The statute does not permit a court to carve out some
 defendants or causes of action for arbitration while retaining
 others. 13.19. Reliance was placed on a decision of the Bombay High Court in The Indian Performing Right Society Ltd. v. Entertainment
 Network (India) Ltd., Arbitration Petition No.341/2012 order
 dated 31.08.2016 wherein the Bombay High Court in view of the
 facts therein set aside the award passed by the arbitrator therein
 pertaining to the issue of copyright made by the claimant declaring
 that the claimant therein was not required to obtain a licence from
 respondent therein, on the ground of want of jurisdiction of the
 arbitrator therein and dispute therein being not arbitrable.
 13.20. Neither the Collaboration Agreement nor the Exit Agreement
 provides a basis for reference. The Collaboration Agreement was
 executed without authority, tainted by conflict of interest, and
 stood discharged upon execution of the Exit Agreement. The Exit Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 15 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 Agreement has been fully satisfied and bears no nexus to the
 subject-matter of the present Suit. There is, therefore, no subsisting
 arbitration agreement governing the present dispute and that the
 dispute is not arbitrable in law. 13.21. Therefore, the present Application under Section 8 of the Act is
 liable to be dismissed. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: 14. The issue that arises for consideration is whether the dispute forming
 the subject matter of the Suit is liable to be referred to arbitration under Section 8 of the Act, on the basis of the Collaboration Agreement and / or
 the Exit Agreement. 15. Before adverting to the facts of the case, it is necessary to first set out
 the law governing an application under Section 8 of the Act. Section 8 of the
 Act mandates judicial authorities to refer parties to arbitration when prima
 facie there is a valid arbitration agreement. 16. The Supreme Court in Vidya Drolia (supra) has observed that the
 Court exercising jurisdiction under Section 8 or under Section 11 of the Act
 is not to enter into the merits of the case between the parties. It is only to
 examine whether the dispute is prima facie arbitrable under a valid
 arbitration agreement and that this prima facie examination is intended to
 weed out manifestly and ex facie non-existent or invalid arbitration
 agreements or non-arbitrable disputes, thereby cutting the deadwood and
 trimming off the side branches, in cases where the litigation cannot be
 permitted to proceed. The proceedings under Section 8 of the Act are
 preliminary and summary in nature and should not result in a mini-trial and
 that unless there is a clear case of non-existence of a valid arbitration Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 16 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 agreement, or of the dispute being ex facie non-arbitrable the court should
 leave these aspects to be decided by a competently constituted arbitral
 tribunal. The Supreme Court in Vidya Drolia (supra) has also held that
 relegation to arbitration should be regarded as a rule, and resolution by the
 civil court, where a valid arbitration agreement exists and is sought to be
 invoked by one of the parties, as an exception. In the supplementing opinion
 in Vidya Drolia (supra), it is observed as under: 244.5. The scope of the court to examine the prima facie validity of
 an arbitration agreement includes only: 18. For examining the nature of the dispute in the present Suit, the
 relevant paragraphs of the Plaint are reproduced as under: They instructed Plaintiffs own people to service the hijacked
 contracts, including its call center, and used Plaintiff's own parts
 and suppliers. They copied and stole Plaintiff's proprietary Contract
 Management and Service Management software and used as their
 own. They deleted incriminating records, falsified communications
 and once exposed and terminated, stormed Plaintiffs office and
 seized control of its electronic infrastructure. They then froze
 Plaintiff's bank accounts, fired employees and claimed they were the
 rightful managers of Plaintiff. It is one of the most brazen corporate
 hijackings imaginable. The story that follows is not just of theft-it is
 a story of greed, deception, coercion, and abuse of trust at the
 highest levels. xxx xxx xxx 8. It is pertinent to state that the third director of the Plaintiff
 Company, Ms. Christine Florence Appleby, is based in the United
 States and, being a permanent resident there, served only in a non-
 executive capacity. She was neither involved in nor responsible for Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 18 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 the day-to-day affairs of the Plaintiff Company. Taking advantage of
 her limited involvement, Defendant Nos. 2 and 3 assumed complete
 control over the functioning of the Plaintiff Company and kept Ms.
 Appleby entirely uninformed regarding its operations and affairs. xxx xxx xxx 18. That it is pertinent to mention that, due to certain legal
 complications involving the Plaintiff's parent company in the United
 States in 2017, a major corporation, HP, was hesitant to engage
 directly with the Plaintiff. This reluctance arose primarily from the
 fact that one of the directors of the parent company had been
 sentenced to a 24-month term following an adverse ruling in a
 copyright dispute. 19. In light of this situation, Defendant No. 2, along with one Mr.
 Bernd Appleby, the majority shareholder, proposed the
 incorporation of a separate entity--essentially an alter ego
 corporation--for the limited purpose of approaching HP and
 perhaps other companies that were unwilling to deal directly with
 the Plaintiff but still wanted to take advantage of the Plaintiff's pan
 India multi-vendor service capabilities. Trusting the representations
 made, the majority shareholders of the Plaintiff agreed to this
 proposal. Consequently, Defendant No. 1 Company was
 incorporated on 28th January 2020, with Defendant No. 2 and
 Defendant No. 3 as its directors. Unbeknownst to the shareholders
 of the Plaintiff Company, this played straight into the conspiracy
 already hatched by Defendant No. 2 and 3 and possibly other
 defendants as well. Defendants Nos. 2 and 3, taking undue
 advantage of the situation, began diverting not just restricted
 accounts but all other clients and business opportunities of the
 Plaintiff to Defendant No. 1 without any authority or consent. These
 actions were carried out unlawfully and in breach of their fiduciary
 duties. Subsequently, when the Plaintiff began to observe a sharp
 and unexplained decline in contract renewal business, the majority
 shareholder, Mr. Bernd Appleby, specifically enquired from
 Defendant No. 2 whether renewals or new business were being
 routed through Defendant No. 1. Defendant No. 2 denied any such
 activity and concealed the fact that the entirety of the renewal
 business had, in fact, been illegally diverted to Defendant No. 1--a
 company in which neither the Plaintiff nor shareholders Mr. Bernd
 Appleby and Jim Olding had any stake or means of oversight." 19. The relevant clauses of the Collaboration Agreement are reproduced
 as under: TCSIPL and TGPL shall, hereinafter, be referred to collectively as
 "Parties" and individually as a "Party" WHEREAS: xxx xxx xxx Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 21 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 5. TERM AND TERMINATION
 5.1 The Parties may terminate this Agreement at any time during the
 term of this Agreement by mutual agreement in writing.
 5.2 Each Party shall have right to terminate this Agreement at any
 time by providing a prior written notice of 30 (thirty) days to the
 other Party. 5.3 The termination of this Agreement or the purported termination
 of this Agreement shall be without prejudice to any claim or rights of
 action previously accrued to any Party hereto against the other
 Party. 5.4 Termination of this Agreement for whatsoever reasons will be
 without prejudice to the right of either Party against each other than
 accruing or accrued in respect of the event giving rise to such
 termination or otherwise under this Agreement. 5.5 The provisions of Clause 4 (Confidentiality), Clause 5 (Term and
 Termination), Clause 6 (Notices) and Clause 7 (Dispute Resolution)
 shall survive the termination of this Agreement pursuant to this
 Clause." 20. From a bare perusal of the extracts of the Plaint and Collaboration
 Agreement as reproduced above, prima facie the dispute raised in the
 present Suit is rooted in, and revolves around, the commercial understanding
 governing the relationship between the Parties. The incorporation of
 Defendant No. 1, the manner in which clients were to be serviced, the
 sharing and use of manpower, infrastructure, systems and software, as well
 as the scope and limits of such access, were all contemplated within the
 framework of the Collaboration Agreement. Whereas the Exit Agreement
 addressed the cessation of this relationship and the consequences flowing
 therefrom. Although the Plaintiff has framed the Suit as one alleging
 copyright infringement and diversion of business, the substance of the
 grievance is that the Defendants acted beyond, or contrary to the
 permissions and arrangements flowing from the contractual understanding Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 22 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 between the Parties. The dispute in the present Suit, therefore, is not
 independent of the contractual framework, but arises in connection with the
 rights and obligations created thereunder, matters which the Parties have
 agreed to resolve through arbitration. 21. The learned counsel for the Plaintiff contented that the dispute in the
 present Suit, being founded on alleged infringement of copyright and
 misappropriation of the software namely 'Ticketmaster', 'Apollo' and
 'Parser' partakes the character of a determination of intellectual property
 rights operating in rem and is therefore not amenable to resolution by
 arbitration. Reliance has been placed, in this context, on the decisions of the
 Supreme Court in Booz Allen (supra), to submit that disputes involving
 intellectual property rights stand excluded from the arbitral domain by their
 very nature. 22. The decision in Booz Allen (supra) stands comprehensively analysed
 in Vidya Drolia (supra), which clarifies that disputes excluded from
 arbitration are those relating to the grant, registration or existence of
 intellectual property rights, which involve exercise of sovereign functions
 and have erga omnes effect. In the present case, the Plaintiff is not seeking a
 declaration of copyright ownership and the relief claimed in the Plaint is
 directed against the Defendants, as is evident from the Prayers in the Suit,
 which are reproduced as under: 23. The objection raised by the Plaintiff on the ground of arbitrability of
 the dispute in the Suit is plainly arguable and necessitate a detailed
 evaluation of the Collaboration Agreement, the covenants therein, their
 operation, and the Parties' rights and obligations, an exercise which would
 be impermissible within the limited scope of prima facie scrutiny under Section 8 of the Act. 24. It is settled law that an arbitral tribunal has jurisdiction to determine
 and decide all questions of non-arbitrability and unless the dispute is
 manifestly and / or ex facie non-arbitrable, the rule is to refer the dispute to
 arbitration. On perusal of the Plaint and the Collaboration Agreement, the
 dispute, as has emerged in the present case, cannot be said to be ex facie
 non-arbitrable. In such circumstances, and consistent with the settled Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 24 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 principle that relegation to arbitration is the rule and retention of the lis by
 the civil court an exception, the Parties ought to be referred to arbitration,
 leaving all questions on merits expressly open to be decided by the arbitral
 tribunal in accordance with law. 25. As regards the reliance placed on Ameet Lalchand Shah (supra), to
 submit that Collaboration Agreement and Exit Agreement are separate in
 time, subject-matter, and parties and that there being no common arbitration
 agreement encompassing all the Defendants, Section 8 of the Act cannot be
 invoked in a mixed-party, mixed-cause of action cannot be accepted. The
 disputes raised in the present case arise from the rights and obligations
 created under the Collaboration Agreement. The Exit Agreement merely
 records the termination of the relationship between the parties and cannot
 form the basis of the present reference. 26. The objection that a non-signatory cannot be bound by the arbitration
 agreement also does not merit acceptance. The Supreme Court in Cox &
 Kings Ltd. v. SAP India (P) Ltd. , (2024) 4 SCC 1 observed that: [Emphasis supplied] 27. The determination of whether non-signatory parties can be referred to
 arbitration is thus not to be based on an inquiry confined to signatures alone,
 but on the nature of the relationship between the parties, the composite
 nature of transaction and commonality of subject-matter and in view of the
 complexity of such a determination, the referral court should leave it for the
 arbitral tribunal to decide whether the non-signatory party is indeed a party
 to the arbitration agreement on the basis of the factual evidence and
 application of legal doctrine. Therefore, at this stage, the mere fact that some
 of the Defendants are not signatory party to the Collaboration Agreement
 cannot, by itself, be a ground to refuse reference to arbitration. 28. In the case of Sukanya Holdings (supra), the Supreme Court held that
 where a suit is commenced 'as to a matter' which lies outside the arbitration
 agreement and is also between some of the parties who are not parties to the
 arbitration agreement, there is no question of application of section 8 of the
 Act. The words 'a matter' indicate that the entire subject matter of the suit
 should be subject to arbitration agreement and that there is no provision for
 splitting the causes or parties and referring the subject matter of the suit to
 arbitration. The question posed by the facts of the present case, however, is
 required to be examined keeping in view the object of Section 8 of the Act. The language of section 8 of the Act is peremptory in nature and obliges the
 Court to refer the parties to arbitration once it is found that the dispute is
 covered by an arbitration agreement. In the present case, the submission on
 behalf of the Plaintiff that reference to arbitration would result in bifurcation
 of the cause of action on the ground that not all Parties to the Suit are parties
 to either the Collaboration Agreement and / or the Exit Agreement, cannot
 be accepted as a matter of course. Acceptance of such a submission would
 permit a party to avoid arbitration merely by combining claims or causes of
 action which may not, by themselves, be subject to arbitration. This would
 effectively allow the arbitration agreement to be rendered meaningless. Such
 an approach would dilute the mandate of Section 8 of the Act and run
 contrary to the object of the Act, which is to ensure that where parties have
 agreed to arbitrate, the Court adopts a limited role and gives effect to that
 arbitration agreement. 29. To reiterate, the standard of scrutiny while exercising power under Section 8 of the Act is confined to a prima facie examination of the validity
 and existence of an arbitration agreement. The expression 'validity' has been
 comprehensively dealt with in Re: Interplay (supra) and Cox and Kings (supra), wherein the Supreme Court held that the term 'validity' should be
 read in the light of Section 7 of the Act and should be restricted to the
 requirement of formal validity, that prima facie examination 'should be
 restricted to the requirement of formal validity such as the requirement that
 the agreement be in writing', and that the issues relating to substantive
 validity fall under the purview of arbitral tribunal under Section 16 of the
 Act, which is also in accordance with the doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz.
 In the present case, the existence of formal validity is satisfied as the Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 29 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 Collaboration Agreement is in writing, and the threshold of formal validity
 is made out. Needless to say, any issue of substantive validity including the
 objection on the ground that the Collaboration Agreement was executed by
 Defendant No. 2, then a director of the Plaintiff, without any Board
 Resolution, or any other document; authorising him to enter into the
 Collaboration Agreement remains open and shall be decided by the arbitral
 tribunal in accordance with law. 30. As regards the submission that, in Paragraph No. 3 of the reply to I.A.
 No. 18561 of 2025 ("Reply"), the Defendants have denied the Plaintiff's
 copyright in the concerned software and, in Paragraph No. 8, have asserted
 copyright ownership in themselves, such averments, when the Reply is read
 as a whole, do not disclose any intention on the part of the contesting
 Defendants to abandon the arbitration agreement or to submit to the
 jurisdiction of this Court for adjudication of the dispute. The Reply relying
 on the Collaboration Agreement maintains that the dispute between the
 Parties is required to be resolved through arbitration. The objection raised on
 this ground is, therefore, does not warrant refusal of reference to arbitration. 31. The learned Counsel for the Plaintiff has also objected to the present
 Application on the ground that Section 8 of the Act is not complied with by
 the Defendants, since the Defendants failed to produce the original copy of
 the Collaboration Agreement and / or the Exit Agreement, thereby violating
 the express requirement of Section 8(2) of the Act. However, the certified
 copies of both the Exit Agreement and the Collaboration Agreement are on
 record. Accordingly, the requirement of Section 8(2) of the Act is satisfied. 32. As a result, the present Application for referring the disputes arising in
 the Suit to arbitration is allowed and the Parties are referred to arbitration in Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 30 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20 terms of the Arbitration Agreement contained in the Collaboration
 Agreement under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 33. Accordingly, the present Application stands disposed of.
 CS(COMM) 783/2025 & I.A. No. 18561 of 2025 34. In view of the above Judgment, the Suit and I.A. No. 18561 of 2025
 stand disposed of. TEJAS KARIA, J
 FEBRUARY 28, 2026
 HK Signature Not Verified CS(COMM) 783/2025 Page 31 of 31 Signed By:NEELAM SHARMA Signing Date:28.02.2026 17:42:20