Starting June 1, the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AePS) has revised its interchange fee (fee paid by the remitter’s bank to the beneficiary’s bank) from 0.5% of the transaction amount (with a maximum cap of ₹15 per transaction) to a flat rate of ₹ 0.25 per transaction. No fees will be charged for transactions under ₹100.

What is AePS

AePS is a financial inclusion product developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) which facilitates cash withdrawal, deposit and funds transfers at MicroATMs (handheld card swiping devices) through a business correspondent (BC – an extended arm of a bank that provides financial services to unbanked/underbanked areas) of any AePS-enabled bank. According to NPCI’s website, 130 banks and five non-banks are a part of this payment system.

Why it matters:

It is important to note here that this isn’t the first time NPCI has attempted to reduce the interchange fee for AePS. According to a report by Hindu Business Line, in 2018, NPCI (on the recommendation of public banks) had been discussing interchange fees, which received significant pushback from commercial banks such as YES Bank, RBL, IndusInd Bank, and IDFC Bank – who claimed that this would adversely affect the livelihood of BCs. Given the pushback back then, it would be safe to assume that this negative impact on BCs is possible this time as well.

According to NPCI’s product booklet on AePS, it is meant to be used by people in remote areas who don’t have access to banks. Since BCs rely on the support of the banks they work for, and these banks, in turn, rely on interchange fees, there is a possibility that a reduction in fees would dissuade commercial banks from deploying BCs. This could consequently deprive people in rural areas of access to banking services.

Not applicable to every AePS service

We must point out that the circular only mentions account-to-account transfers, which means that transaction costs may still apply to other AePS services, such as cash withdrawals.

Concerns with the AePS system

It is worth mentioning that this change in AePS interchange fees has occurred almost simultaneously as Member of Parliament John Brittas wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the financial risks associated with the AePS system. His complaint is based on the proliferation of Aadhar numbers and other details that create vulnerabilities that can be exploited by bad actors. This means that even if the reduction in fees doesn’t reduce banking access to rural areas, those with access could very well lose their money in financial fraud.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event