2024:HHC:6843

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr.MMO No.1130 of 2022
 Date of Decision: 01.08.2024

 . _______________________________________________________

 Sahil
 .......Petitioner
 Versus

 State of H.P. & Anr. .....Respondents
 _______________________________________________________
 Coram: 2. Precisely, the facts of the case, which may be relevant for

 adjudication of the case at hand, are that respondent No. 2

 . (hereinafter to be referred to as 'complainant'), lodged FIR, sought to

 be quashed, on 21.03.2021, alleging therein that her minor daughter

 i.e. victim-prosecutrix (name withheld to protect her identity), aged 13

 years had gone to Nalwari fair at 03:00 p.m., but she did not come

 back. Complainant alleged that at 06:00 p.m. her daughter had

 informed her telephonically that she is coming back, but when, she

 did not turn back, complainant alongwith her husband went to Nalwari

 fair to look for her daughter. At first instance Police registered a

 missing report, however, on 22.03.2021, Police came to be informed

 that daughter of complainant had come back. During investigation,

 victim-prosecutrix disclosed to the Police that while she had gone to

 Nalwari fair, at 03:00 p.m., one boy stopped her and asked her name. She stated to the Police that though she did not disclose her name to

 the boy, but told him that she comes from ITI side. She also alleged

 that boy was repeatedly asking her to become his friend, but she

 refused. She alleged that boy, whose name she does not know, took

 her mobile number and thereafter starting making frantic calls. She

 alleged that initially she switched off her phone, but after 10-15

 minutes, when she turned on her phone, there were 20 missed calls

 from her mother, to whom she said that she is coming back. She ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 3 2024:HHC:6843

 alleged that on account of continuous stalking by the boy concerned,

 she called her cousin namely Harsh, but before he reached Luhnu,

 . the boy ran away. She alleged that though she attempted to make a

 call to the boy, but he did not pick up her call and thereafter she

 alongwith her cousin Harsh and friends namely Kusum, Shibu, went

 towards Dhaulra temple and stayed there. She alleged that as the

 night had deepened, she instead of going to her house stayed at

 Dhaulra temple alongwith her friends named hereinabove. Police after

 recording the aforesaid statement of victim-prosecutrix under Section

 161 Cr.P.C, got her statement recorded under Section 164 before the

 Judicial Magistrate, wherein she narrated the same story, but

 specifically named the accused as Karan. In the aforesaid

 background, FIR sought to be quashed came to be instituted against

 the petitioner namely Sahil, whose name allegedly came to be

 disclosed to the Police by the person namely Munish, who during

 investigation disclosed that his telephone was being used by his

 friend namely Sahil. 3. Though challan stands filed in the competent court of law, but

 before same could be taken to its logical end, petitioner has

 approached this court in the instant proceedings for quashing of FIR

 as well as consequent proceedings on the ground that no case much

 less under Section 354-D of Indian Penal Code and Section 12 of ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 4 2024:HHC:6843 POCSO Act is made out against the petitioner and as such, trial, if

 any, pursuant to FIR sought to be quashed, would amount to sheer

 . abuse of process of law. 4. Pursuant to notices issued in the instant proceedings,

 respondent-State has filed reply under the signatures of

 Superintendent of Police, District Bilaspur, H.P., wherein facts as

 noticed hereinabove have not been disputed, rather stand admitted. It

 is averred in the reply that factum with regard to involvement of the

 petitioner in the case at hand stands duly established on record with

 the placing of call detail report of mobile No.97362-41415 belonging

 to victim-prosecutrix and mobile No. 82196-52757 belonging to

 person namely Munish, who at relevant time, was staying with the

 petitioner in a hostel. As per reply/status report filed by the

 respondent-State, on relevant date victim-prosecutrix and person

 using mobile No. 82196-52757 had talked to each other for more than

 one hour, may be in different intervals. 5. Precisely, the grouse of the petitioner, as has been highlighted

 in the petition and further canvassed by Mr. V.S.Chauhan, learned

 Senior Counsel, duly assisted by Ms. Bhanvi Negi, Advocate, is that

 neither person, who allegedly stalked and made telephonic calls to

 the victim-prosecutrix never came to be identified, nor there is any

 direct evidence suggestive of the fact that victim-prosecutrix had ever ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 5 2024:HHC:6843

 disclosed to the Police as well as to the learned Judicial Magistrate

 that boy namely Sahil stalked her and made telephone calls to her. . Mr. Chauhan, while making this Court peruse statements of victim- prosecutrix recorded under Sections 161 and 164 Cr.P.C.,

 vehemently argued that victim-prosecutrix herself was not aware

 about the name and identity of the person, who allegedly stalked her

 and made repeated calls, rather her statement itself suggests that she

 did not disclose true facts to the Police as well as to the learned

 Judicial Magistrate in her statement recorded under Section 146 Cr.P.C. Mr. Chauhan, learned Senior counsel, further submitted that

 once it is not in dispute that mobile No. 82196-52757 does not belong

 to the petitioner, rather is of the person namely Munish, police without

 conducting identification parade of the petitioner could not have

 lodged FIR against him. He submitted that since in the case at hand

 identity of the accused is very doubtful, because as per statement

 given by the victim-prosecutrix, person namely Karan had been

 stalking her and making calls, it is not understood how and on what

 basis name of the petitioner-Sahil came to be arraigned as an

 accused in the FIR, sought to be quashed. He further submitted that

 otherwise also basic ingredients of Section 354-D IPC and Section 12 of POCSO Act are totally missing and as such, no fruitful purpose ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 6 2024:HHC:6843

 would be served in case, petitioner herein is put to ordeal of

 protracted trial, which otherwise is likely to fail in all probabilities. . 6. To the contrary, Mr. B.C.Verma, learned Additional Advocate

 General, while praying for dismissal of the petition at hand,

 vehemently argued that identity of the accused in the shape of

 petitioner stands duly established on record on account of statement

 made by person namely Munish, who categorically disclosed that on

 the date of alleged incident, his mobile phone was being used by the

 petitioner. He submitted that apart from above, victim-prosecutrix in

 her statement has categorically stated that one person, whose name

 she does not know, forcibly took her mobile number and started

 making frantic calls. He submitted that phone calls were being

 received on the mobile phone of victim-prosecutrix from the mobile

 phone of Munish and at relevant time, such phone was being used by

 the petitioner namely Sahil and as such, it cannot be said that identity

 of the petitioner was not established prior to initiation of case against

 him. He further submitted that call detail report adduced on record

 clearly corroborate the version put-forth by the victim-prosecutrix that

 petitioner herein besides stalking her, also harassed her by making

 frantic calls. Lastly, Mr. Verma, submitted that since petitioner is

 accused of her having committed heinous crime punishable under Section 354-D IPC and Section 12 of POCSO Act, coupled with the ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 7 2024:HHC:6843

 fact charge sheet stands filed in the competent Court of law, this is

 not a fit case, where this Court, while exercising power under Section

 . 482 Cr.P.C would like to quash the FIR, which if permitted would not

 send good message to the society. 7. I have heard learned counsel of the parties and gone through

 the record carefully. Record perused and returned. 8. Before ascertaining the genuineness and correctness of the

 submissions and counter submissions having been made by the

 learned counsel for the parties vis-à-vis prayer made in the instant

 petition, this Court deems it necessary to discuss/elaborate the scope

 and competence of this Court to quash the criminal proceedings while

 exercising power under Section 482 of Cr.PC. 9. A three-Judge Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in case titled State of Karnataka v. L. Muniswamy and others , 1977 (2) SCC 699,

 held that High Court while exercising power under Section 482 Cr.PC

 is entitled to quash the proceedings, if it comes to the conclusion that

 allowing the proceeding to continue would be an abuse of the process

 of the Court or that the ends of justice require that the proceeding

 ought to be quashed. 10. Subsequently, in case titled State of Haryana and others v. Bhajan Lal and others, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335, the Hon'ble Apex

 Court while elaborately discussing the scope and competence of High ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 8 2024:HHC:6843

 Court to quash criminal proceedings under Section 482 Cr.PC laid

 down certain principles governing the jurisdiction of High Court to

 . exercise its power. After passing of aforesaid judgment, issue with

 regard to exercise of power under Section 482 Cr.PC, again came to

 be considered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in case bearing Criminal

 Appeal No.577 of 2017 (arising out of SLP (CrL.) No. 287 of 2017)

 titled Vineet Kumar and Ors. v. State of U.P. and Anr. , wherein it has

 been held that saving of the High Court's inherent powers, both in civil

 and criminal matters, is designed to achieve a salutary public purpose

 i.e. court proceedings ought not to be permitted to degenerate into a

 weapon of harassment or persecution. 11. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Prashant Bharti v. State (NCT of

 Delhi ), (2013) 9 SCC 293, relying upon its earlier judgment titled as Rajiv Thapar and Ors v. Madan Lal Kapoor , (2013) 3 SCC 330,

 reiterated that High Court has inherent powers under Section 482 Cr.PC., to quash the proceedings against an accused, at the stage of

 issuing process, or at the stage of committal, or even at the stage of

 framing of charge, but such power must always be used with caution,

 care and circumspection. In the aforesaid judgment, the Hon'ble Apex

 Court concluded that while exercising its inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.PC, Court exercising such power must be fully

 satisfied that the material produced by the accused is such, that would ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 9 2024:HHC:6843

 lead to the conclusion, that his/their defence is based on sound,

 reasonable, and indubitable facts and the material adduced on record

 . itself overrule the veracity of the allegations contained in the

 accusations levelled by the prosecution/complainant. Besides above,

 the Hon'ble Apex Court further held that material relied upon by the

 accused should be such, as would persuade a reasonable person to

 dismiss and condemn the actual basis of the accusations as false. In

 such a situation, the judicial conscience of the High Court would

 persuade it to exercise its power under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. to

 quash such criminal proceedings, for that would prevent abuse of

 process of the court, and secure the ends of justice. In the aforesaid

 judgment titled as Prashant Bharti v. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2013) 9

 SCC 293, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held as under:- Such exercise of power, besides doing justice to the
 accused, would save precious court time, which would
 otherwise be wasted in holding such a trial (as well as,
 proceedings arising therefrom) specially when, it is clear
 that the same would not conclude in the conviction of
 the accused." 12. It is quite apparent from the bare perusal of aforesaid

 judgments passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court from time to time that

 where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 12 2024:HHC:6843

 and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior

 motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to

 . spite him/her due to private and personal grudge, High Court while

 exercising power under Section 482 Cr.PC can proceed to quash the

 proceedings. 13. Recently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in case tilted Anand Kumar

 Mohatta and Anr. v. State (Government of NCT of Delhi)

 Department of Home and Anr , AIR 2019 SC 210, has held that abuse

 of process caused by FIR stands aggravated if the FIR has taken the

 form of a charge sheet after investigation and as such, the abuse of

 law or miscarriage of justice can be rectified by the court while

 exercising power under Section 482 Cr.PC. The relevant paras of the

 judgment are as under: 17. There is nothing in the words of this Section which restricts
 the exercise of the power of the Court to prevent the abuse of
 process of court or miscarriage of justice only to the stage of
 the FIR. It is settled principle of law that the High court can ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 13 2024:HHC:6843

 exercise jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C even when
 the discharge application is pending with the trial court ( G.
 Sagar Suri and Anr. V. State of U.P. and Others , (2000) 2 SCC

 . 636 (para 7), Umesh Kumar v. State of Andhra Pradesh and

 Anr. (2013) 10 SCC 591 (para 20). Indeed, it would be a
 travesty to hold that proceedings initiated against a person can

 be interfered with at the stage of FIR but not if it has advanced,
 and the allegations have materialized into a charge sheet. On
 the contrary it could be said that the abuse of process caused
 by FIR stands aggravated if the FIR has taken the form of a

 charge sheet after investigation. The power is undoubtedly
 conferred to prevent abuse of process of power of any court." 14. Recently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in case titled Pramod

 Suryabhan Pawar v. The State of Maharashtra and Anr , (2019) 9

 SCC 608, has elaborated the scope of exercise of power under Section 482 Cr.PC, the relevant para whereof reads as under:- 24. Inherent powers under Section 482 CrPC though wide

 have to be exercised sparingly, carefully and with great caution
 and only when exercise is justified by the tests specifically laid
 down in this section itself. Authority of the court exists for the

 advancement of justice. If any abuse of the process leading to

 injustice is brought to the notice of the court, then the court
 would be justified in preventing injustice by invoking inherent
 powers in absence of specific provisions in the statute." 8. Given the varied nature of cases that come before the High
 Courts, any strict test as to when the court's extraordinary

 powers can be exercised is likely to tie the court's hands in the
 face of future injustices. This Court in State of Haryana v Bhajan

 Lal6 conducted a detailed study of the situations where the court
 may exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction and laid down a list of

 illustrative examples of where quashing may be appropriate. It is
 not necessary to discuss all the examples, but a few bear
 relevance to the present case. The court in Bhajan Lal noted
 that quashing may be appropriate where, (2007) 12 SCC 1 1992
 Supp (1) SCC 335

 "102. (1) Where the allegations made in the first information
 report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face
 value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 15 2024:HHC:6843

 constitute any offence or make out a case against the
 accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and

 . other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose

 a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police
 officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an

 order of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2).
 .......... (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with
 mala fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted

 with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused
 and with a view to spite him due to private and personal
 grudge." In deciding whether to exercise its jurisdiction under Section
 482, the Court does not adjudicate upon the veracity of the
 facts alleged or enter into an appreciation of competing

 evidence presented. The limited question is whether on the
 face of the FIR, the allegations constitute a cognizable offence.
 As this Court noted in Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v State of

 Maharashtra , 2018 SCC OnLine SC3100 ("Dhruvaram Sonar")
 : 15. Aforesaid law, clearly stipulates that court can exercise power

 under S.482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to quash criminal

 proceedings, in cases, where the allegations made in the first ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 16 2024:HHC:6843

 information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face

 value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any

 . offence or make out a case against the accused. 16. Now being guided by the aforesaid proposition of law laid down

 by the Hon'ble Apex Court, this Court would make an endeavor to

 examine and consider the prayer made in the instant petition vis-à-vis

 factual matrix of the case. 17. In the case at hand, precise allegation against the petitioner is

 that he had stalked minor girl aged 13 years on the date of alleged

 incident and besides this, he also troubled her by making

 unnecessary calls on her mobile number. It is pertinent to take note of

 the fact that at very first instance complainant lodged missing report of

 her daughter i.e. victim-prosecutrix, who otherwise had been telling

 her mother, on the date of alleged incident that she is coming back to

 her house. She nowhere disclosed factum with regard to stalking or

 frantic calls, if any, by the petitioner to her mother, rather she

 informed such fact to the person namely Harsh, who happens to be

 her cousin. As per the statement of victim-prosecutrix, she did not

 know the name of boy, who had been stalking her, but yet she after

 having reported the matter to her cousin Harsh, made a telephonic

 call to the person, who had been allegedly stalking her. If the

 statement of victim-prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. is ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 17 2024:HHC:6843

 read in its entirety, it clearly reveals that at 03:00 p.m. on the date of

 alleged incident some boy obstructed the movement of victim- . prosecutrix and thereafter asked for her mobile number. Though

 mobile number was not disclosed by the victim-prosecutrix, but yet

 boy, who had been stalking victim-prosecutrix, forcibly took her

 number from her mobile phone and thereafter started making frantic

 calls. If the call detail report adduced on record is perused in its

 entirety, it clearly reveals that victim-prosecutrix and the person, who

 had been allegedly making frantic calls, talked to each other for more

 than one hour, may be in different intervals. Her statement further

 reveals that after arrival of her cousin-Harsh, she made a telephonic

 call on the mobile of the person, who had been stalking her, but he

 did not pick up her call. In her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.,

 she deposed that since it had become dark and she was afraid of her

 father, she stayed at Dhaulra Temple along with the persons namely

 Harsh, Shibhu, Kusum and one more boy. She alleged that though

 person namely Harsh had not done anything wrong with her, but yet

 her father unnecessarily started beating him. At this stage, it is

 pertinent to take note of the fact that if person namely Harsh was the

 cousin of victim-prosecutrix, where was the occasion for the father of

 the victim-prosecutrix to give him beatings. 2024:HHC:6843 18. Leaving everything aside, victim-prosecutrix in her

 statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C categorically deposed

 . that person namely Karan had forcibly taken her mobile number and

 he had stalked her, if it is so, what prevented police to search for

 person namely Karan. Though, at this stage, Mr. B.C.Verma, learned

 Additional Advocate General, attempted to argue that real name of

 boy, who had actually stalked the victim-prosecutrix was not known to

 victim-prosecutrix, but such submission of the Mr. B.C.Verma, does

 not appear to be correct for the reason that had victim-prosecutrix not

 known boy concerned by name, where was the occasion for her to

 take the name Karan, rather, while making statement under Section

 164 Cr.P.C., she could again reiterate that boy, whose name she

 does not know had troubled her and action be taken against him and

 not against Harsh. Petitioner herein came to be arraigned as accused

 merely on the basis of statement given by the person namely Munish,

 who at that relevant time was staying in a hostel alongwith petitioner. Munish allegedly disclosed to the police that at relevant time his

 phone was being used by the petitioner and not by him, if it is so, was

 it not incumbent upon Investigating Officer to get the accused

 identified from the victim-prosecutrix, especially when, she had

 nowhere specifically mentioned the name of the petitioner herein i.e.

 Sahil. Otherwise also, Police merely on the statement of Munish could ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 19 2024:HHC:6843

 not straightaway register a case against the petitioner, rather attempt

 should have been made to ascertain that whether it was Munish or

 . present petitioner Sahil, who was using mobile phone at that relevant

 time. Since mobile in question was in the name of Munish, he was

 otherwise under obligation to explain that under what circumstances

 his phone was being used by the petitioner. In such like situation,

 appropriate course for the police was otherwise to get the

 identification of accused done from the victim-prosecutrix. Since very

 identity of the accused, who allegedly stalked victim-prosecutrix is

 doubtful, case of the prosecution is not likely to succeed, if permitted

 to continue. At this stage, it would be apt to take note of Section 354-

 D of Indian Penal Code and Section 12 of POCSO Act, which read as

 under: imprisonment of either description for a term which may

 extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine; and be
 punished on a second or subsequent conviction, with

 imprisonment of either description for a term which may
 extend to five years, and shall also be liable to fine. And

 Punishment for sexual harassment.-- Whoever, commits sexual harassment upon a child shall be
 punished with imprisonment of either description for a term

 which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to

 fine." 19. Section 354-D of Indian Penal Code provides that any

 man, who follows a women or contacts, or attempts to contact such

 women to foster personal interaction or monitors the woman by using

 internet, email or any other form of electronic communication, shall be

 deemed to have been committed offence of stalking, which shall be

 punishable under Section 354-D (2). To prove the charge of stalking,

 prosecution is required to prove that victim-prosecutrix was stalked or

 followed by a man. However, in the instant case, that evidence is

 totally missing because victim-prosecutrix categorically stated that

 she was being followed or stalked by the petitioner nor there is any

 other eye witness suggestive of the fact that at relevant time victim- prosecutrix was being stalked by the petitioner, rather entire case of ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 21 2024:HHC:6843

 the prosecution is based upon the statement of Munish, who simply

 stated that at relevant time his phone was being used by the

 . petitioner. Even if version put-forth by the Munish is taken into

 consideration, it nowhere proves stalking because telephonic calls, if

 any, made by the petitioner using mobile phone of Munish, would not

 amount to stalking as defined under Section 354-D of Indian Penal

 Code. Aforesaid provision clearly talks about stalking that may be by

 way of following victim-prosecutrix or by monitoring the women by use

 of internet, email or any other form of electronic communication,

 however, in the instant case, such allegations are totally missing. 20. No doubt, in the case hand, version put-forth by the

 victim-prosecutrix suggests that some unknown boy obstructed her

 path and he was also blowing whistles, but since victim-prosecutrix

 was unable to identify the boy, such version, if any, of her may not be

 sufficient to bring accused in the ambit of Section 354-D IPC. Section

 12 of POCSO Act provides punishment for sexual harassment, as

 noticed hereinabove, but sexual harassment has been defined under Section 11 of POCSO Act, which reads as under: so as it is seen by such person or any other person; or (iii) shows any object to a child in any form or media for
 pornographic purposes; or (iv) repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or
 contacts a child either directly or through electronic,
 digital or any other means; or (v) threatens to use, in any form of media, a real or
 fabricated depiction through electronic, film or digital or
 any other mode, of any part of the body of the child or the

 involvement of the child in a sexual act; or (vi) entices a child for pornographic purposes or gives
 gratification therefor. 21. Sexual harassment has been defined under Section 11 of

 POCSO Act, which says that a person is said to commit sexual

 harassment upon a child when such person with sexual intent utters

 certain acts as defined under Section 11(1) to 11(6) . Prosecution has

 laid much stress upon Section 11(iv) , which provides that a person,

 who repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child

 either directly or through electronic, digital or any other means, would

 be deemed to have committed sexual harassment in terms of Section

 11 of POCSO Act. However, in the case at hand there is no evidence

 that petitioner had been repeatedly or constantly following or watching

 or tried to establish contact either directly or through electronic, digital ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS 23 2024:HHC:6843

 or any other means with the victim-prosecutrix. No doubt, call detail

 report adduced on record indicates towards telephonic conversation

 . inter se victim-prosecutrix and some boy, but once mobile used by

 boy belongs to person namely Munish, no case otherwise under Section 11 of POCSO Act could have been registered against the

 petitioner without being proper identification. 22. Having scanned entire evidence adduced on record by the

 prosecution to prove the guilt of petitioner, this court is perusaded to

 agree with Mr. V.S.Chauhan, learned Senior Counsel, that evidentiary

 material adduced on record by prosecution is not sufficient to prove

 the guilt of the petitioner and as such, continuance of trial, if permitted

 would not only amount to sheer abuse of process of law, but that

 would also result in wastage of precious time of the Court. 23. This Court for the discussion made hereinabove in detail

 finds the case at hand to be a fit case, where power under Section

 482 Cr.P.C. can be exercised to quash FIR as well as consequent

 proceedings, which is otherwise bound to fail for the reasons stated

 hereinabove. Continuation of proceedings pursuant to FIR sought to

 be quashed, would not only cause unnecessary harassment to the

 petitioner, but would also put him to ordeal of protracted trial, which is

 otherwise likely to culminate into his acquittal. 2024:HHC:6843 24. Consequently, in view of the detailed discussion made

 hereinabove as well as law taken into consideration, FIR No.61 of

 . 2021, dated 21.03.2021, under Sections 354-D of Indian Penal Code and Section 12 of POCSO Act, registered at Police Station Sadar, District

 Bilaspur, H.P., as well as consequent proceedings, if any, pending

 adjudication in the competent court of law are quashed and set aside. Accused is acquitted of the charges framed against him. 25. The petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid

 terms, alongwith all pending applications. (Sandeep Sharma),

 Judge
 August 01, 2024
 (sunil) ::: Downloaded on - 16/08/2024 20:32:04 :::CIS