Bharti Airtel has written to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) asking the regulator to tackle spam and fraud on over-the-top (OTT) platforms like WhatsApp and Telegram, according to a report by the Economic Times. In a letter dated November 8, Airtel says that companies are shifting to using calling and messaging platforms for marketing and business communication.

As such, it urges TRAI to implement a blockchain-based distributed ledger technology (DLT) platform where telemarketers register their message templates/headers for calling and messaging platforms as well. It also suggests that platforms should verify businesses through a know-your-customer (KYC) process, like how telcos verify their customers.

This isn’t the first time Airtel has wanted ‘same service same rules’ for OTTs and telcos. Responding to a TRAI consultation paper on OTT regulation last year , the company said that since calling and messaging platforms provide real-time interpersonal communication just like telcos, the regulator should bring them under the licensing framework. If the regulator brings OTTs under the same licensing framework as telcos, this would include ensuring compliance with a range of requirements such as lawful interception, curbing unsolicited commercial communication (UCC/spam), maintaining quality of service (QoS) etc.

More recently, the company responded to TRAI’s consultation on spam regulation . It suggested that the regulator should introduce specific guidelines for consent on OTT platforms. This will ensure that businesses don’t send business/commercial messages to users without their consent. Besides making the same points it does in its letter, Airtel also suggests that TRAI should impose a clear deterrent to prevent businesses from spamming users on OTT platforms. Further, the platforms should report spam statistics to ensure proper oversight over spammers. Just like Airtel, Jio and Vodafone Idea (Vi) have also advocated for spam regulations on OTT platforms.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event