9th March 2026

 B.P. Routray,J. 1. Heard Mr. B.Maharana, learned Senior Panel Counsel for

 the Petitioner and Mr. A.Sanganeria, learned counsel for Opposite

 Party. 2. Present writ petition is directed against order dated 6th

 September 2025 at Annexure-1 passed by the learned Commercial

 Court, Bhubaneswar in ARBP No.37 of 2021. W.P.(C) No. 30361 of 2025 Page 1 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SANGRAM DAS Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack Date: 17-Mar-2026 20:30:47 3. The Petitioner who is the Central PWD under the Ministry

 of Housing and Urban Development has preferred an application

 under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

 challenging the arbitral award dated 22nd June 2021, wherein the

 Petitioner was directed to pay certain amount towards the interest

 @18% per annum along with Rs.18,76,397/- towards the cost of

 deviation work. All total an amount of Rs.1,11,31,771/- was directed

 to be paid by the Petitioner to the Opposite Party. 4. The learned Commercial Court while admitting the

 application under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act

 directed for deposit of 100% of the award amount by the Petitioner

 within such period. This is the subject of grievance of the Petitioner

 that such direction to deposit 100% of the award amount for stay of

 the execution of the award amount during pendency of the 34

 application is not necessary to be deposited by the Petitioner being the

 Central Government authority. 5. Mr. Maharana, learned counsel for the Petitioner submits

 that when the Petitioner is the Central PWD and it has challenged the

 award of the arbitrator which is based mainly on the interest

 component, and the Applicant has already received the entire work W.P.(C) No. 30361 of 2025 Page 2 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SANGRAM DAS Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack Date: 17-Mar-2026 20:30:47 contract amount, such award of the arbitrator to grant interest @18%

 is not permissible. As grant of interest at such rate on the contract

 amount is permissible or not, is the subject matter before the

 Commercial Court as per the challenge under Section 34 of the Act,

 where the Petitioner has been granted only 18,00,000/- and odd

 towards the cost of work, it is not required on the part of the

 Petitioner to deposit the entire award amount. 6. Mr. Maharana, learned counsel for the Petitioner further

 takes the provisions contained in Rule 8-A of Order 27 of the Code of

 Civil Procedure to contend that no such amount as security in terms of

 Rule 5 and 6 of Order 41 is required to be deposit from the

 Government. 7. Mr. Sanganeria, learned counsel for the Opposite Party on

 the other hand submits that, it is now well-settled that the compliance

 of Section 36(3) along with Order 41(5) of the CPC is applicable to

 everyone either as a private person or a Government authority. 8. Sub- section 3 of Section 36 prescribes that upon filing of

 an application for stay of operation of the arbitral award in terms of

 Sub- section 2 of Section 36 corresponding to the challenge made W.P.(C) No. 30361 of 2025 Page 3 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SANGRAM DAS Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack Date: 17-Mar-2026 20:30:47 under Section 34 , the Court may subject to such conditions as it may

 deem fit grant stay of operation of such award, provided that the

 Court have due regard to the provisions for grant of stay of a money

 decree under the provisions as per Order 41 of the Civil Procedure

 Code, except where the prima facie case is made out to the

 specification of the Court that the arbitration agreement or the making

 of the award was induced or effective by fraud or corruption. 9. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Lifestyle Equities C.V. and

 Another vs. Amazon Technologies Inc. , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 2153

 by taking note of various earlier decisions have held as follows:- In order to ascertain whether a "sufficient cause" exists for the
 grant of stay of execution of a decree under Order XLI of
 the CPC , the appellate court as per sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 is
 required to examine:-- Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack Date: 17-Mar-2026 20:30:47 (VII) A deposit is not a condition precedent for an order of stay of
 execution of the decree by the appellate court. The only guiding
 factor and statutory mandate, for the grant of such stay of
 execution as indicated in Rule 5, is the existence of "sufficient
 cause" in favour of the appellant, on the availability of which
 the appellate court would be inclined to pass an order of stay.
 (VIII) For the grant of benefit of an unconditional stay of execution
 of a decree, an exceptional case has to be made out before the
 appellate court. This discretion of the appellate court to grant
 an unconditional stay of execution of decree must not be
 exercised arbitrarily. It must be exercised sparingly and only if
 an exceptional case is made out for such stay in view of the
 peculiar facts and attending circumstances of the case before it.
 (IX) A lodestar for bringing a case within the purview of
 "exceptional case" for the purpose of granting benefit of
 unconditional stay of the execution of money decree by the
 appellate court would be, if the money decree in question: - prescription thereof does not operate as a bar to staying the
 execution of a money decree. W.P.(C) No. 30361 of 2025 Page 6 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SANGRAM DAS Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack Date: 17-Mar-2026 20:30:47 (XI) There is no provision under Order XLI Rule 5 of
 the CPC imposing a mandate to deposit cash security as the
 only mode of security for execution of the decree. Security, for
 the purpose of the said provision, can be in the shape of
 property, bond and or in the form of an appropriate undertaking
 from the appellant to abide by the decree, seeking stay of
 execution". 10. In the given facts of the present case, it is seen that the

 initial challenge filed by the Petitioner under Section 34 of the

 Arbitration and Conciliation Act before the Commercial Court was

 dismissed for default in the year 2021 and thereafter it was restored in

 the year 2023 and for such period of delay in completing the hearing

 of the application under Section 34 before the Commercial Court, the

 Petitioner has not taken any expeditious attempt. It is further seen that

 the application filed by the Petitioner, being an authority under the

 Central Government, is not pursued with due diligence before the

 Commercial Court for earlier disposal of the challenge under Section 34. However, it cannot be disputed that the Petitioner being an

 authority under the Central Government is not required to make a

 deposit in the form of security in terms of the provisions contained in

 Rule 8-A of Order 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure for such matters

 for the purpose of Rule 5 and 6 of Order 41. As held in Life Equities (supra) only in such exceptional cases the purpose of granting of W.P.(C) No. 30361 of 2025 Page 7 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SANGRAM DAS Reason: Authentication Location: High Court of Orissa, Cuttack Date: 17-Mar-2026 20:30:47 unconditional stay of the execution of the money decree by the

 Appellate Court would be made if the money decree in question is

 egregiously perverse, is riddled with patent illegalities, is facially

 untenable, or such other exceptional causes similar in nature. Here in

 the case where mainly the award of the arbitrator is relating to interest

 of the contract amount in major part, and the Petitioner being an

 authority under the Central Government can be considered under such

 exceptional cases as not mandatory on his part to deposit the amount,

 keeping in view the nature of the award and the grounds of the

 challenge taken before the Commercial Court. 11. In the result, the writ petition is allowed and the direction

 for deposit of 100% of the award amount is set aside subject to

 undertaking to be furnished by the Petitioner, before the Commercial

 Court, to deposit the entire award amount immediately in the event

 the appeal is decided against him. In the alternative, the Petitioner

 may also furnish an indemnity bond equal to the award amount. (B.P. Routray)
 Judge
 S.Das,Sr.Steno W.P.(C) No. 30361 of 2025 Page 8 of 8