The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has launched ‘UPI123Pay’ that allows feature phones to carry out transactions even without the internet on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) network, according to a press release issued on March 8. ‘DigiSaathi’, a 24×7 helpline to resolve customer queries was also announced.

UPI functions will be made available on feature phones through an app that would have to be installed on the device, as per the release. If that’s not possible, access to UPI can be ensured using I nteractive Voice Response (IVR) calls, sound-wave based proximity detection, missed calls, and more.

UPI123Pay will allow more users, even from the lower rungs of society – financially speaking – to be a part of the UPI ecosystem, said RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das at a press conference .

In January 2022, the RBI had released a framework for offline payments on UPI after Das announced in December 2021 that the central bank was working on enabling UPI transactions on feature phones to make digital payments more inclusive. Presently, the ability to pay through UPI without internet, and on feature phones, is available through the National Unified USSD Platform (NUUP) after dialling ‘*#99’ on the keypad.

However, RBI Deputy Governor T Rabi Shankar said that the NUUP process is cumbersome as it involves multiple messages that have to be sent, which also carry charges, and not all telecom service providers offer the service right now. Thus, the new system is expected to fill in this gap and accommodate sections of the Indian population that use feature phones, which the RBI estimated to be 40 crore.

According to the press release, the initiative will allow payments in the following manner:

While the RBI’s moves to facilitate cheaper and more inclusive digital payments are welcome, concerns remain regarding the rapidly growing instances of digital frauds, which often go hand-in-hand with growth in digital payments. In January 2022, the Economic Survey 2021 showed that the UPI network was the largest payments retail system in the country.

At the press conference, Governor Das said that the helpline would be used to provide information about the system for users, resolve queries such as payments not going through, and even direct them to the right authorities for registering complaints. While this would currently provide information in Hindi and English, the RBI said that it would be expanded to more languages later.

Here’s a look at the scale of the problem based on state-wise fraud data obtained by the RBI and a parliamentary response regarding digital payments frauds in the Lok Sabha:

The central bank said that only authorised Payment System Operators (PSOs) and Payment System Participants (PSPs) are permitted to provide offline payment services. Here are some of the measures they will need to comply with:

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event