My name is nikhil kapparath and i'm from bangalore. Recently i got ping from olx user on my whatsapp telling like he is interested in buying my iphone. He told his mane is brian benetu and he is contacting from america after seeing my post on olx. As he was was okay with the price we fixed the deal for rs. 26, 000/- but he ask me to send this to his son who is living in delhi because he is gifting this phone to his son. He ask my account details to make a payment so i shared my account number and ifsc code so he maid the payment using jp morgan chase bank which is the 4th largest bank in us. He make the payment to my account and i got email from chase bank regarding this payment but i did not received but later he ask to send the phone stating that once the bank will able to track the dtdc courier then they will process our money so i checked on google regarding this and came to know that this bank is very secure king of payment for buyer and sellers so i did courtier on 11/9 to his son's address in delhi who's name is abu wahab. Once i got the tracking status i asked brian to update his bank regarding this so he told that revert the email with screenshot of the tracker they will process the money i sent the screenshot but still did not get my money so i asked him to inquire about this so he went to bank and told us that bank told that they tried making payment but the money get bounce back because the minimum wire money transfer is rs. 40, 000/- so he ask me that he will transfer 14000/- extra and wnat us to transfer that extar amount to his son's account who is living in delhi so i agreed and i told that send 40, 000/- i'll tranfer rest of the amount then he made payment of 40, 000/- to my account and sent the screenshot of the receipt and againg i got the mail from chase bank stating that they deducted money form brian's account and requested to send 14, 000 to his son's account first they only they will relase the money. Then i got angry on that guy because there is no such policy for bank so i thought of stopping the dtdc couried but due to the occasion of ganesh chaturthi i was not able to reach out to anyone. On the same day in evening i told that guy to share his id proof or his son'd id proof but he didn't so ask him to return the phon back as we cannot pay 14000/- he did not informed us before doing this now he was pressuring us to follow as bank says to get the money then we ask his son's account number so that will get some details of him but he share account number of someone who is his son;s friend and having account in canara bank delhi. Then we track this jp morgan chase bank nearby us and went there for inquiry but they cannot conformed this, tried calling chase bank in us so they told that they cannot track the transaction without verification but they confirmed that ther is no such policy for minimum international payment for 40k. So i told that guy that he is lying with us so he again told that this is bank policy then i asked him to share his son's id proof and email from his chase bank stating that in which account we need to pay money he did not share the id but again we got an email from bank in which they mentioned account number in which brian was requesting to send 14k then we refuse to give money as he is not sharing any of his details and he confirmed that his son received the parcel as well so we keep telling to return but he denied so we said that will not pay money anymore but now the situation is he is telling to do it or leave it. I tried tracking that delivery address its reflecting in nearby between arjangarh and ghitorni metro station in delhi i also tried tracking his number that is showing from up, the address he gave is not his son neither the account number he gave is of his son there are 2-3 people involve in this fraud or may more so please investigate help in getting my phone or else my money. For any other details plz contact me on nikhil. Niki. [protected]@gmail.com