% 18.03.2024

 CRL.M.A. 8525/2024 (for exemption) 1. Exemptions allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The application stands disposed of. 3. The present petition is filed under Section 482 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' CrPC ') seeking quashing of FIR
 No. 126/2017 dated 22.04.2017, for the offence punishable under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC '), registered at
 Police Station Shahdara, including all consequential proceedings
 arising therefrom. The said FIR was registered on a complaint
 filed by Respondent No. 2. 4. It is submitted that the marriage between the petitioner and

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:48
 Respondent No.2 was solemnized on 09.05.2016 as per Hindu
 rites and rituals. No child was born out of the said wedlock.
 Thereafter, due to matrimonial discord, the petitioner and
 Respondent No. 2 started living separately. 5. Subsequently, Respondent No.2 made a complaint against
 the petitioner, which later culminated into the aforementioned
 FIR No. 126/2017. It is averred that a quarrel took place between
 the parties at their workplace which led to a scuffle where the
 petitioner allegedly strangled Respondent No.2 with a chunni and
 also kicked her in the stomach. It is alleged that Respondent No.2
 was saved by the intervention of the staff members. 6. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that charge
 sheet has already been filed in the present case. 7. The present petition is filed on the ground that the matter is
 amicably settled between the parties, on their own free will,
 without any coercion, pressure or undue influence. The parties
 have entered into a Memorandum of Settlement dated
 03.12.2022. As per the terms of the settlement, the complainant
 has already received a sum of ₹2,75,000/- from the petitioner.
 Pursuant to the settlement, Respondent No.2 and the petitioner
 have already obtained a decree of divorce by mutual consent, and
 they intend to live their future lives peacefully. The FIR
 registered against the petitioner and his family members by
 Respondent No.2, for the offences under Sections 498A / 406 / 34 of the IPC, has also been quashed by this Court on the ground of
 settlement by order dated 26.09.2023. 8. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that
 Respondent No.2 had only sustained simple injuries upon her
 person in the alleged altercation. He submits that Respondent
 No.2 was even discharged on the very same day from the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:48
 hospital. 9. He submits that the parties have since moved on and have
 amicably resolved their disputes and want to live their lives
 peacefully in the future. He further submits that the petitioner
 undertakes to not indulge in any such activity in the future. 10. The parties are present before this Court in person and
 have been duly identified by the Investigating Officer. 11. Respondent No.2 submits that she has married again and is
 living happily. She submits that she has no grievance with the
 petitioner and she does not wish to pursue the proceedings
 arising out of the present FIR. She submits that the pendency of
 the case would only lead to harassment and has no objection if
 the proceedings are quashed. 12. Offence under 307 of the IPC is non-compoundable. 13. It is well settled that the High Court while exercising its
 powers under Section 482 of the CrPC can compound offences
 which are non-compoundable under the Code on the ground that
 there is a compromise between the accused and the complainant.
 The Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down parameters and
 guidelines for High Court while accepting settlement and
 quashing the proceedings. In the case of Narinder Singh & Ors.
 v. State of Punjab & Anr. : (2014) 6 SCC 466, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court had observed as under :- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:49
 which lies in the Court to compound the
 offences under Section 320 of the Code. No
 doubt, under Section 482 of the Code, the High
 Court has inherent power to quash the criminal
 proceedings even in those cases which are not
 compoundable, where the parties have settled
 the matter between themselves. However, this
 power is to be exercised sparingly and with
 caution. 29.2. When the parties have reached the
 settlement and on that basis petition for
 quashing the criminal proceedings is filed, the
 guiding factor in such cases would be to
 secure: While exercising the power the High Court is
 to form an opinion on either of the aforesaid
 two objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in
 those prosecutions which involve heinous and
 serious offences of mental depravity or
 offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such
 offences are not private in nature and have a
 serious impact on society. Similarly, for the
 offences alleged to have been committed
 under special statute like the Prevention of
 Corruption Act or the offences committed by
 public servants while working in that capacity
 are not to be quashed merely on the basis of
 compromise between the victim and the
 offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases
 having overwhelmingly and predominantly
 civil character, particularly those arising out of
 commercial transactions or arising out of
 matrimonial relationship or family disputes
 should be quashed when the parties have
 resolved their entire disputes among
 themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:49
 Court is to examine as to whether the
 possibility of conviction is remote and bleak
 and continuation of criminal cases would put
 the accused to great oppression and prejudice
 and extreme injustice would be caused to him
 by not quashing the criminal cases. 29.6. Offences under Section 307 IPC would
 fall in the category of heinous and serious
 offences and therefore are to be generally
 treated as crime against the society and not
 against the individual alone. However, the
 High Court would not rest its decision merely
 because there is a mention of Section 307 IPC
 in the FIR or the charge is framed under this
 provision. It would be open to the High Court
 to examine as to whether incorporation of Section 307 IPC is there for the sake of it or
 the prosecution has collected sufficient
 evidence, which if proved, would lead to
 proving the charge under Section 307 IPC.
 For this purpose, it would be open to the High
 Court to go by the nature of injury sustained,
 whether such injury is inflicted on the
 vital/delicate parts of the body, nature of
 weapons used, etc. Medical report in respect of
 injuries suffered by the victim can generally be
 the guiding factor. On the basis of this prima
 facie analysis, the High Court can examine as
 to whether there is a strong possibility of
 conviction or the chances of conviction are
 remote and bleak. In the former case it can
 refuse to accept the settlement and quash the
 criminal proceedings whereas in the latter case
 it would be permissible for the High Court to
 accept the plea compounding the offence based
 on complete settlement between the parties. At
 this stage, the Court can also be swayed by the
 fact that the settlement between the parties is
 going to result in harmony between them
 which may improve their future relationship. 29.7. While deciding whether to exercise its
 power under Section 482 of the Code or not,
 timings of settlement play a crucial role. Those
 cases where the settlement is arrived at
 immediately after the alleged commission of
 offence and the matter is still under

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:49
 investigation, the High Court may be liberal
 in accepting the settlement to quash the
 criminal proceedings/investigation. It is
 because of the reason that at this stage the
 investigation is still on and even the charge-
 sheet has not been filed. Likewise, those cases
 where the charge is framed but the evidence is
 yet to start or the evidence is still at infancy
 stage, the High Court can show benevolence in
 exercising its powers favourably, but after
 prima facie assessment of the
 circumstances/material mentioned above. On
 the other hand, where the prosecution evidence
 is almost complete or after the conclusion of
 the evidence the matter is at the stage of
 argument, normally the High Court should
 refrain from exercising its power under Section
 482 of the Code, as in such cases the trial court
 would be in a position to decide the case finally
 on merits and to come to a conclusion as to
 whether the offence under Section 307 IPC is
 committed or not. Similarly, in those cases
 where the conviction is already recorded by the
 trial court and the matter is at the appellate
 stage before the High Court, mere compromise
 between the parties would not be a ground to
 accept the same resulting in acquittal of the
 offender who has already been convicted by the
 trial court. Here charge is proved under Section 307 IPC and conviction is already
 recorded of a heinous crime and, therefore,
 there is no question of sparing a convict found
 guilty of such a crime." (emphasis supplied) 14. Similarly, in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir & Ors. v. State
 of Gujarat & Anr. : (2017) 9 SCC 641, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court had observed as under :- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:49
 new powers. It only recognises and preserves
 powers which inhere in the High Court. 16.2. The invocation of the jurisdiction of the
 High Court to quash a first information report
 or a criminal proceeding on the ground that a
 settlement has been arrived at between the
 offender and the victim is not the same as the
 invocation of jurisdiction for the purpose of
 compounding an offence. While compounding
 an offence, the power of the court is governed
 by the provisions of Section 320 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973. The power to quash
 under Section 482 is attracted even if the
 offence is non-compoundable. 16.3. In forming an opinion whether a criminal
 proceeding or complaint should be quashed in
 exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482,
 the High Court must evaluate whether the ends
 of justice would justify the exercise of the
 inherent power. 16.4. While the inherent power of the High
 Court has a wide ambit and plenitude it has to
 be exercised (i) to secure the ends of justice, or (ii) to prevent an abuse of the process of any
 court. 16.5. The decision as to whether a complaint or
 first information report should be quashed on
 the ground that the offender and victim have
 settled the dispute, revolves ultimately on the
 facts and circumstances of each case and no
 exhaustive elaboration of principles can be
 formulated. 16.6. In the exercise of the power under Section
 482 and while dealing with a plea that the
 dispute has been settled, the High Court must
 have due regard to the nature and gravity of
 the offence. Heinous and serious offences
 involving mental depravity or offences such as
 murder, rape and dacoity cannot
 appropriately be quashed though the victim or
 the family of the victim have settled the
 dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not
 private in nature but have a serious impact

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:49
 upon society. The decision to continue with
 the trial in such cases is founded on the
 overriding element of public interest in
 punishing persons for serious offences.
 16.7. As distinguished from serious offences,
 there may be criminal cases which have an
 overwhelming or predominant element of a
 civil dispute. They stand on a distinct footing
 insofar as the exercise of the inherent power to
 quash is concerned. 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which
 arise from commercial, financial, mercantile,
 partnership or similar transactions with an
 essentially civil flavour may in appropriate
 situations fall for quashing where parties have
 settled the dispute. 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash
 the criminal proceeding if in view of the
 compromise between the disputants, the
 possibility of a conviction is remote and the
 continuation of a criminal proceeding would
 cause oppression and prejudice; and
 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle
 set out in propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above.
 Economic offences involving the financial and
 economic well-being of the State have
 implications which lie beyond the domain of a
 mere dispute between private disputants. The
 High Court would be justified in declining to
 quash where the offender is involved in an
 activity akin to a financial or economic fraud
 or misdemeanour. The consequences of the act
 complained of upon the financial or economic
 system will weigh in the balance." (emphasis supplied) 15. It is not in dispute that the offence under Section 307 of
 the IPC as alleged cannot be termed to be in personam. However
 since the victim was the wife of the petitioner accused at the time
 of incident and since she has moved on in life after taking
 divorce and has also married again, the continuation of the
 proceedings would only cause further harassment to the victim. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:49 16. Keeping in view the nature of the injuries and that the
 parties have amicably entered into a settlement, this Court feels
 that no useful purpose would be served by keeping the dispute
 alive and continuance of the proceedings would amount to abuse
 of the process of Court. I am of the opinion that this is a fit case
 to exercise discretionary jurisdiction under Section 482 of the
 CrPC. 17. However, keeping in mind the fact that the charge sheet
 has already been filed in the case arising out of FIR No.
 126/2017, and the State machinery has been put to motion, ends
 of justice would be served if the petitioner is put to cost. 18. In view of the above, FIR No. 126/2017 and all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom are quashed, subject
 to payment of cost of ₹20,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only) by
 the petitioner, out of which ₹10,000/-is to be deposited with the
 Delhi Police Welfare Fund and ₹10,000/- is to be deposited with
 Delhi High Court Bar Association, within a period of eight weeks
 from date. 19. The present petition is disposed of in the aforesaid terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 MARCH 18, 2024
 "SS" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 12/04/2024 at 21:16:49