[tps_title][/tps_title]

India recorded the highest number of internet shutdowns in the world for the fourth consecutive year, according to a recent report published by the digital rights advocacy group Access Now. Over 106 incidents of shutdowns were documented in India last year.

“Unfortunately, it’s possible that we are also missing some network disruptions that took place due to the lack of government transparency. The Indian government has been reluctant to create and maintain a centralized repository of data on the shutdowns authorities order across the country.” – Access Now report.

The report also pointed to the government’s failure to meet the requirements of the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency & Public Safety) Rules, 2017 and the Supreme Court’s Anuradha Bhasin judgement that backs the rules. “The lack of a centralized repository continues to make it difficult for civil society and other actors to effectively monitor and document shutdowns, and some are likely to go unreported,” the report noted.

Dear reader, we urgently need to build capacity to cover the fast-moving tech policy space. For that, our independent newsroom is counting on you . Subscribe to MediaNama today, and help us report on the policies that govern the internet.

With 399 internet shutdowns in the past decade, Jammu and Kashmir is the most blacked-out region. In the 2021 “Keep it On” report, it figures in first place with 85 documented shutdowns resulting in 551 days without internet. The paper further accuses the Indian government of being one of the 22 countries that had even cut off access to VPNs that usually enable people to mask their IP addresses from government agencies.

A year without internet access had crippled local e-commerce , brought online classes – a necessity in the post-pandemic world – to a grinding halt and even the medical sector lost its connectivity, resulting in a complete breakdown of inter-hospital referral and doctor-patient communication systems.

In 2020, around 1,200 doctors in Kashmir were connected through a WhatsApp group called the #SaveHeart initiative. The chat group effectively served as a virtual hospital for many Kashmiris with cardiac issues. When a heart attack patient was brought to any remote hospital in the valley, this group would connect the junior doctors to the senior specialists.

“A doctor would upload an ECG report of the patient and the doctors available at the moment would advise him,” a doctor who is part of the WhatsApp group had told MediaNama. “Since the first couple of hours are very crucial in this situation the advice from the senior doctors would help the juniors. A patient would otherwise lose the battle with life if he is referred to a tertiary hospital. Many people could have been saved had there been no internet shutdown.”

The most commonly cited reason behind network disruptions in Jammu and Kashmir is “public disorder”. Indian authorities declared an internet shutdown on the first day of 2021 itself, following intermittent disruptions in the following weeks to quell protests surrounding the upcoming Republic Day celebrations.

“But on January 1, there were already ongoing shutdowns taking place, not just in India but also in Ethiopia and Myanmar — each of which would see more shutdowns in the following months, in a context of fear, violence, and conflict,” the Access Now report notes.

In May 2021, participants at the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers’ Meeting condemned “actions by states to intentionally disrupt their own populations’ access to, or dissemination of, information, knowledge and data online.” The heads of these states echoed these sentiments. A month later, United Nations Special Rapporteur Clément Voule, an expert on the rights to peaceful assembly, submitted a paper advocating an end to internet shutdowns, the world over. The paper offers a series of recommendations for state actors, companies, investors and international organisations to reverse internet shutdowns.

The UN Human Rights Council, in July 2021, adopted a new version of “the promotion, protection and enjoyment of human rights on the Internet” (A/HRC/47/16).  It specifically called out network shutdowns and mandated an international report on “the trend in internet shutdowns, analyzing their causes, their legal implications and their impact on a range of human rights, including economic, social and cultural rights.”

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama here and post your comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event