SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Translation of the editorial on Mother Teresa for which a Marathi newspaper had to apologize
DATE: 2016-03-22
SCORE: 48
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/4bh6s4/translation_of_the_editorial_on_mother_teresa_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

Saints of the non-saints

Mother Teresa’s work in India got glorified because of help from the hypocrisy of our politicians

The so called religious leaders who cling to the political power of the day to run their shops are as ordinary as the normal mortals. Be it Baba Ramdev or Sri Sri Ravi shankar or Mother Teresa. All religions have traditions to anoint such fake religious leaders as saints. Mother Teresa is the latest instance. The Vatican Church on Monday confirmed the so-called sainthood for Mother Teresa. What this decision underlines is the mutual interdependence of the system. This interdependence is manifest in the system declaring those favourable to it ‘saints’ and these neo-saints then through their so-called social service making sure this blind religious order is further strengthened. Others outside the system had to wait till the 21st century to understand the cleverness demonstrated by Christianity in deploying this fraud and its fraudulent means. To understand this enterprise of Christianity one must look into the history of the expansion of Christianity. Christianity expanded not because of the so-called collective religious power of the priests but because the religious head was also the head of the State at one point of time. This was the time when the reins of the Roman empire were in the hands of the Pope. So the religious power and the political power were concentrated in a single entity. Other religions too have such instances. A reference could be made to the current discourse about the spread of Wahhabism within Islam. The Islamic State (ISIS) is the symbol of the Wahhabi religious streak. Wahhabism spread because its founder Mohammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab struck an alliance with Mohammad bin ibn Saud, the founder of a new and likely nation. Saud who wanted to settle in politics needed a religious cover that would condone his sins and violence while Mohammad Wahhab was looking for the political patronage for the expansion of his religious thought. Wahhabism and Saudi Arabia emerged out of this mutually beneficial alliance. Same could be said of the spread of Buddhism. It spread during the reign of Ashoka precisely for this reason. So the political power is always eager to confer sainthood on those who are considered beneficial to it. This should explain the reason why sainthood has been conferred on Mother Teresa.

In Christianity a prospective saint must have performed at least two miracles to be anointed saint. But this eligibility itself is fundamentally fraud. The miracle rubbish is merely the stated reason for public consumption to justify the decision to confer sainthood. The real eligibility criterion is the number of conversions the prospective saint has carried out. Mother Teresa was well known for this work. Charity was only the cover for this work. Her real face was of a person craving conversions. This bitter truth has been brought out well by historian Vijay Prasad and Christopher Hitchens and many others. In an essay in his book titled ‘White Woman in Racialized Spaces’ Vijay Prasad explains in detail why Mother Teresa got so much of importance in India. Hitchens goes a step forward describing Mother Teresa as ‘fanatic, fundamentalist, and fraud’. “If this woman is chosen for sainthood the number of the poor and the sick would in fact rise,” Hitchens says. “The decision to confer sainthood on Mother Teresa is Roman Catholic Church’s surrender to superstition and superficiality” is Hitchen’s observation and no intellectual person will disagree with this observation. Mother Teresa was interested in glorification of the poor, the destitute, the abject, and the sick. She claimed that she was serving such downtrodden lot. A reference is made, by way of evidence of this service to the poor, to the many medical aid centres that she founded. But these medical aid centres were deliberately kept inefficient. Several Western writers have shown that apart from the shortage of equipment and facilities