SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: i need your help
DATE: 2021-02-10
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/lgnfbg/i_need_your_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

context : CYBERBULLYING /PHISHING /SCAMMER

Dont bash me after you read this article. I know I acted naive about this. I wont ever repeat my mistake again, i promise. So, i went on a site where u can talk to random people without any registration and i even made one or two legit friends there. i have been using the site for quite some time and didnt face any issues. At first, i was pretty careful to talk with strangers and didnt bother to give my personal details or my social media handles. But after i made one two e friends (and i am pretty sure these arent scam), i started becoming careless.

So just yesterday i met this person on that site who seemed pretty friendly by his chats, so we exchanged our insta's. That was a mistake. His instagram handle didnt seem suspicious tho. He had many posts and few followers but no dp and real name. But after that, he started asking many questions(most were personal) in dms. I found this suspicious coz it had never happened earlier. But he also gave his personal details so I continued talking. Most of the details i gave of mine could be easily accesible by just a google search of my name( through my other social media handles). I didnt give overly personal details but quite some of them for which i am worried. Then he said he wanted to call me, but i strictly denied.

After that i used instagram ip finder and searched his username. His location was different from what he had said(i dont know whether he was using a vpn or not). But what i found was his ip was reported multiple number of times (30+) by various users complaining about varied stuff. Some people reported him for asking nudes while some reported for scamming/threatening/blackmailing. Now i shit my pants. I deleted all my chats(unsend) and remove my likes from his post and blocked and reported him asap. Fortunately, i am introverted so i didnt have any posts (not even a dp) so he wont get my pictures. I think he only got my name. I started using vpn when it got a little suspicious. But i am really scared about what to do.

I am not 18 yet and cant tell this to anyone. My family would be pissed and i fear i would lose my friends if told them this. So, please help me guys. What should i do? If possible, i would even mention his ig username for someone to verify is he really is a scammer and mass report him. Thank you for your help in advance.

update : he is harassing through multiple accounts now. i havent accepted the requests. should i delete my account. it really doesnt have anything but i would be missing out talking to friends.