SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Tired of awful AirTel service. [NP]
DATE: 2015-08-31
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3j2old/tired_of_awful_airtel_service_np/

--- POST TEXT ---

Desclaimer: What follows is a rant of a really tired Airtel customer!

Ugh... Where do I even start?! I have been a customer of Airtel postpaid services (myPlan or whatever the hell it's called) for the past 5 months, most of which were admittedly smooth. I am an ideal customer too, FYI.. Always paying off my bills the same day I receive them. My troubles started when I decided to change the booster packs allotted by my plan after I realised I wasn't using as much data and was making more calls. Changing of the booster packs went smoothly, I received a message within two hours confirming that the changes had been made successfully! All was Rainbows, butterflies and Unicorns thereon, until I realised that my data services were not working. I couldn't browse or send any messages on whatsapp... Nada. I thought it was a minor network issue and decided to sleep on it. Sadly, the situation remained unchanged and I decided to call their customer services. Few things I'd like to mention here-

1. AirTel call hold music is horrible
2. Airtel customer care representatives lack basic communication skills 
3. Their response times are decent
4. Response times are decent even when the issue remains unresolved, yet they claim that it has been resolved

Anyway, long story short- I was given solutions like "please re-insert your sim card" multiple times in spite of my mentioning that I had already tried that a gazillion times. I have lodged a complaint or 'created service requests' as they like to call it 4 times. I even visited their gallery twice, which was a nightmare in itself. Their representative asked for my phone to check my settings, as he was handing it back to me, he casually commented, "Oh your 3G is really not working, your whatsapp messages are not delivered either". I simply lost it at that point. I asked him if he had opened my personal phone applications and that if he had, it was a serious breach of my privacy. He became defensive and denied going through anything and started telling me how he is there to help and has never accessed anybody's personal information ever. He continued pretending to do something on his pc. I was momentarily distracted by something, when I looked up I realised that my phone wasn't on the table any more. Apparently, this guy had given it to one of his equally incompetent colleague in the other corner of the store. I gave both of them a piece of my mind about not doing anything to my phone without my permission. All said and done, my issue has remained unresolved. :(

I have no option but to port to Vodafone even though it has major connectivity issues at my workplace. I don't know what to do :(