With a prayer to quash the proceedings that are

pending against the petitioners in Crime No.376 of 2012 of

Langer House Police Station, the present quash petition is

filed invoking Section 482 Cr.P.C. The petitioners are

arrayed as accused 1 to 5 in the First Information Report.

The contents of the First Information Report also reveals

that basing on the complaint filed by the 2nd respondent

herein, who is a Senior Manager in Enso Secutrack

Limited, against the petitioners herein before the Court of

VI Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Nampally, the

Criminal law was set into motion. 2. The complaint given was forwarded to the Station

House Officer, Langer House Police Station, for

investigation and report, whereby the case was registered. 3. Heard the submission of Sri Sharad Sanghi, who

appeared for the petitioners. Also, heard the submission of

Sri P.Krishna Reddy, who appeared for the 2nd

respondent/de facto complainant. Further heard the

submission of learned Assistant Public Prosecutor who
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -2- represented the 1st respondent. In the light of the factual
scenario as referred supra and the relief sought for, the
point that emerges for consideration is,

 Whether there exists any justifiable grounds to
 invoke the power granted under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and to quash the proceedings that are
 pending against the petitioners in Crime No.376 of
 2012 of Langer House Police Station, Hyderabad,
 as prayed for. 4. The case of the 2nd respondent (hereinafter be

referred as "the complainant") is that, it is a Company duly

incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 and is

engaged in the business of manufacturing and trading of

Cash Counting Machines, Cash Registering Machines,

Electronic Security Systems, etc. There exists business

relationship between the complainant and the petitioners

(all the petitioners hereinafter be referred as "the accused")

since long time. The 1st accused used to supply machines

from time to time basing upon the requirement and order

placed by the complainant. The complainant used to send

blank cheques without mentioning the date and amount.

Sometimes, the complainant used to send cheques by
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -3- mentioning only amount but without mentioning date.

Taking advantage of the same, the accused played fraud.

The complainant ordered some machines and while

ordering those machines, it forwarded two cheques bearing

Nos.164651 and 164652 drawn on ICICI Bank, Hyderabad.

In addition to that, the complainant paid Rs.26,70,690/-

and also transferred a sum of Rs.25,00,000/-. Further,

there was an advance amount of Rs.1,70,690/- which was

lying with the accused. However, the 1st accused, all of a

sudden, raised invoices in the name of the complainant for

a sum of Rs.1,49,17,500/- and Rs.89,00,000/- totaling

Rs.2,38,17,500/-. The complainant received the same

through courier. The said invoices were acknowledged by

one of the Directors by name Sri Hanuman Mal Tater. By

making false promise, the accused got the invoices signed.

But indeed, no machines were delivered to the

complainant. These acts clearly demonstrate that the

accused's company intentionally took signature of the

Director only to cheat the complainant. The 1st accused

sent a communication to the complainant indicating that it

is going to present the cheques. Immediately, the
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -4- complainant sent a mail to the accused No.1 stating that

they have not received any machines. The complainant

also informed the 1st accused that in the absence of receipt

of any goods, the question of honouring the cheques, does

not arise. In addition to that, the accused's company was

also informed that they are forced to inform their bankers

to give "Stop payment instructions". But having knowledge

of the same, a legal notice was issued under Section 138 of

the Negotiable Instruments Act. However, the provisions of Negotiable Instruments Act does not attract in the light of

the stand taken by the complainant. Thus, the accused's

company and its Directors played fraud and cheated the

complainant by not delivering the goods and presenting the

cheques for encashment and thereby also committed

criminal breach of trust with criminal conspiracy. The

offences alleged to have been committed by the accused are

under Sections 120-B , 406 , 418 , 420 and 468 IPC as per

the contents of the First Information Report. 5. Submitting that the accused have not committed any

offence, the learned counsel for the petitioners i.e. accused,
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -5- contended that the case in Crime No.376 of 2012 of Langer

House Police Station is a counterblast case to that of the

case filed by the accused against the complainant under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act. The learned

counsel also stated that the complainant is due and liable

to pay more than Rupees two crores to the complainant

and for payment of the said amount, the complainant

issued two cheques and when the said cheques were

presented by the 1st accused i.e. the 1st petitioner herein for

encashment, they got dishonoured and they were returned

with an endorsement "Stop payment" and therefore, the 1st

accused issued notice under Section 138 of the Negotiable

Instruments Act demanding the complainant to pay the

amount covered under those two cheques. But without

paying the amount, taking aid of false allegations, the

complainant lodged a private complaint before the Court of

law and thereby, a case is registered against the

petitioners/accused which is wholly unjustifiable. The

complaint itself demonstrates that the dispute is purely

civil in nature. For getting a civil remedy, criminal

proceedings are set into motion. This is impermissible. Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -6- 6. Learned counsel for the petitioners also submitted

that the petitioners 2 to 5, who are arrayed as accused 2 to

5, are the Directors of the 1st accused-company. Except

their position as Directors, they never involved in the day

to day affairs of the company of A1 and only to bring A1 to

his terms, the complainant roped them into this case and

therefore, the proceedings against them cannot be

permitted to be continued. The learned counsel states that

they cannot be tagged with the vicarious liability. 7. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the 2nd

respondent i.e. the de facto complainant submits that the

de facto complainant in good faith and having trust, in a

routine manner and in the course of the business

transactions, on request of the accused, forwarded two

undated cheques and those cheques were issued as

consideration for delivery of goods, but without delivering

the goods, the cheques were presented for encashment

and thereby, the petitioners with criminal conspiracy,

caused criminal breach of trust and thus the
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -7- petitioners/accused committed the offences alleged and

hence, they are liable for prosecution. 8. The learned counsel for the 2nd respondent/de facto

complainant further submitted that the company of A1 had

delivered the machines which were ordered by the de facto

complainant to another company by name Atco Digital

Private Limited, Mumbai and thereby had also caused

irreparable loss to the de facto complainant and therefore,

the present application cannot be entertained. The learned

counsel contends that the petitioners have approached this

Court with unclean hands and indeed, the 1st accused and

its Directors who are accused 2 to 5, have played fraud and

cheated the de facto complainant. 9. The learned Assistant Public Prosecutor who is

representing the 1st respondent, submitted that after

registration of the case in the year 2013, stay was granted

by this Court and therefore, the matter could not be

investigated into and had it been investigated, the truth

would have come to light. She also states that on merits,

the petition is liable for dismissal. Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -8- 10. In the light of the aforementioned contentions and

rival contentions, the crucial points that are liable to be

discussed and decided are as follows:- 11. Whether the private complaint basing on which
the case is registered, is a counterblast complaint.
And if so, whether the proceedings arising there from,
are liable to be quashed:- 12. Opposing the said submission, the learned counsel

for the de facto complainant submits that the said case

under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act has

nothing to do with the complaint given by the first accused

and indeed, the alleged cheques basing on which

proceedings are pending in the calendar case referred to by

the accused, were given only as security and though it was

intimated that "Stop Payment instructions" were issued to

the banker, yet, they were presented and proceedings are

launched, which is unjustifiable. Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -10- 13. The learned counsel for the de facto complainant also

states that those cheques were issued for delivery of

machinery and without delivering the said goods, the

cheques given were presented for encashment and thereby,

A1 and its Directors cheated the de facto complainant and

committed criminal breach of trust with criminal

conspiracy. A perusal of the material available on record

goes to show that a complaint was filed that the de facto

complainant herein committed offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act before the

Court of Metropolitan Magistrate, Boriwoli, Mumbai, on

18.04.2012. The cheques in question are cheque

Nos.164651 and 164652 both drawn on ICICI Bank,

Hyderabad. The present complaint against the petitioners

was filed before the Court of VI Additional Chief

Metropolitan Magistrate, Criminal Courts, Nampally, on

04.07.2012. Therefore, it is very much clear that after 2 ½

months from the date of the complaint filed by the accused

No.1 at the Court of Boriwoli, Mumbai, the present

complaint is filed by the de facto complainant before the
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -11- Court at Hyderabad. The cheques in question are one and

the same. 14. A meticulous perusal of the contents of the complaint

filed by the 1st accused company under Section 138 of the

Negotiable Instruments Act at Mumbai and the complaint

filed by the 2nd respondent /de facto complainant before

the Court at Hyderabad, goes to show that the 2nd

respondent/de facto complainant projected his version

which he ought to have projected as defence in the

complaint given against him by the 1st petitioner/A1 before

the Court at Mumbai. This does not mean that the 2nd

respondent /de facto complainant is barred from giving a

separate police report or lodging a complaint before the

competent Court projecting his grievance against the

accused. But having regard to the time it was filed and the

contents mentioned therein, it undoubtedly strengthens

the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioners

that this is a counterblast case that is leveled to attack the

complaint that was given by the 1st accused company that

the 2nd respondent/de facto complainant has committed
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -12- the offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable

Instruments Act. It is not the version of the 2nd

respondent/de facto complainant that he had no

knowledge of filing of complaint under Section 138 of the

Negotiable Instruments Act before the Court at Mumbai by

the time he filed the present complaint at Hyderabad. He

himself makes a mention in the complaint that a notice as

required under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments

Act was issued regarding the dishonor of cheques which

mean that the 1st accused company has indicated that it is

going to initiate legal proceedings against the 2nd

respondent/de facto complainant. Submitting that, in

such a scenario, the proceedings levelled as a counterblast

case cannot be permitted to be continued, the learned

counsel for the petitioners relied upon catena of decisions. 15. The 1st decision is the one that is rendered by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case between Lovely

Salhotra and Anr. v.State NCT of Delhi and Anr.1,

wherein analyzing the scenario similarly placed, the 1 AIR 2017 SUPREME COURT 2595
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -13- Hon'ble Supreme Court at paras 5 & 6 observed as

follows:- 16. The next decision that is relied upon is also the

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case

between Eicher Tractor Ltd. and others v.Harihar

Singh and another2. The factual scenario in the said

case is as follows: In the light of the said material particulars, the Hon'ble

Apex Court at Para 10 of the judgment, made the

following observations:- 17. The next decision relied upon is the one that is also

rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case

between M.N.OJHA AND OTHERS Vs. ALOK KUMAR

SRIVASTAV AND ANOTHER3 . In the said decision , the

Hon'ble Supreme Court discussing the powers to be

exercised under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and the inference to

be drawn, at Paras 33 to 35 held as follows:- 3 The complaint obviously has been filed as a
counterblast to the proceedings already initiated by
the Bank including the first information report lodged
by the first appellant against the complainant and the
borrower for the offences of cheating and
misappropriation. 34. Sequence of events undoubtedly suggests that
the criminal proceedings have been maliciously
instituted with an ulterior motive of wreaking
vengeance on the appellants and with a view to spite
them due to personal grudge. It was clearly intended
to prevent the public servants from discharging their
duties. The criminal law has been set in motion by the
learned SDJM on mere asking to do so by the
complainant. 35. The High Court almost abdicated its duty in
refusing to exercise its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure though the case on
hand required its interference in order to prevent
abuse of the process by a Court subordinate to it. A
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -16- clear case is made out requiring our interference to
 secure the ends of justice." 18. Thus, the principles governing the field are very clear.

When it is found that criminal law is set into motion as a

counterblast to the proceedings already instituted by the

opposite party and the sole motive to do so is to bring the

other party to terms through putting the said party in fear,

the Courts should not be mute and allow the criminal

proceedings to continue. More particularly, the High Court

which exercises wide and splendid power under Section

482 Cr.P.C., should not sit as a silent spectator. Though

the High Court, being the highest Court of the State,

should normally allow the parties to exercise their right of

initiation and continuation of proceedings either civil or

criminal, yet when such right is misused, the High Court

should interfere by exercising its extraordinary jurisdiction

and thereby, the proceedings are required to be quashed. 19. In the case on hand, this Court finds that the

complaint was lodged by the 2nd respondent only as a
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -17- counterblast to the complaint that was given by the 1st

accused and therefore, it is unsustainable. 20. Whether basing on the principle of vicarious
liability, the criminal prosecution against the
Directors i.e. accused 2 to 5 can be permitted to
continue:- 21. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the 2nd

respondent/de facto complainant contends that as accused
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -18- 2 to 5 are Directors of A1, they are vicariously liable to the

acts of A1 and indeed, all of them with a common

intention, have committed the offences of cheating and

criminal breach of trust. A meticulous perusal of the

complaint goes to show that all the allegations are directed

against A1 i.e. Company only. 21. Undoubtedly, the company does not act on its own.

It has to be run by natural persons. But that does not

mean that everyone working therein, the Directors and

Managers, are responsible for each and every act of the

company. To hold them responsible, it is for the person

who alleges so to aver, assert and produce at least prima

facie material that they are involved in the affairs of the

company and the outcome of such involvement is the

Commission of offence by the company and thus they are

vicariously liable for the acts of the Company. 22. On this aspect, the learned counsel for the petitioners

relied upon the decision of the High Court of Andhra

Pradesh in Proddaturi Shobha Rani @ Shobha Rani and
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -19- another Vs.State of Andhra Pradesh and another4

wherein the facts in nutshell as narrated at Para 23 of the

order are as follows: "23. In the light of the above arguments when the
 complaint is perused, it is averred thus: 23. Dealing with the said factual scenario, the learned

Judge at Paras 24 & 25 of the order held as follows: "24. Thus, from the above, it was A1 who
 allegedly used to go to Dharmavaram and obtain 4 2020(2) ALD(Crl.) 111 (AP)
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -20- sarees from the complainant on credit basis on
 behalf of the firm. In the complaint, there is no
 whisper that the petitioners are the partners of the
 firm and they were actively participating in the
 business of the firm. Most importantly the
 complaint has not disclosed whether the petitioners
 personally approached the complainant and
 received the sarees on credit basis. In the absence
 of such crucial facts, it is legally impermissible to
 continue the criminal proceedings against the
 petitioners. 25. In similar circumstances, while quashing the
 proceedings against the appellant the Apex Court in
 Katta Sujatha's case (supra), held thus: However, one thing is clear that the
 appellant was in no way involved in any of the
 transactions referred to in the complaint and it was
 not stated that she was in charge of the business
 and was responsible for the conduct of the business
 of the firm in terms of Section 141 of the Act nor
 was there any other allegation made against the
 appellant that she had connived with any other
 partner in the matter of issue of cheque." 24. The next decision that is relied upon is that of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case between SUNIL
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -21- BHARTI MITTAL Vs. CENTRAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION5 . In the said decision , the Hon'ble Apex

Court discussing at length with regard to the principles

governing the field, at Paras 40 to 44, held as follows:- As demonstrated hereinafter, this proposition would
run contrary to the principle of vicarious liability
detailing the circumstances under which a Director
of a company can be held liable. (iii) Circumstances when Director/person in
charge of the affairs of the company can also be
prosecuted, when the company is an accused
person. 42. No doubt, a corporate entity is an artificial
person which acts through its officers, Directors,
Managing Director, Chairman, etc. If such a
company commits an offence involving mens rea, it
would normally be the intent and action of that
individual who would act on behalf of the company.
It would be more so, when the criminal act is that of
conspiracy. However, at the same time, it is the
cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that
there is no vicarious liability unless the statute
specifically provides so. 43. Thus, an individual who has perpetrated the
commission of an offence on behalf of a company
can be made an accused, along with the company,
if there is sufficient evidence of his active role
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -23- coupled with criminal intent. Second situation in
 which he can be implicated is in those cases where
 the statutory regime itself attracts the doctrine of
 vicarious liability, by specifically incorporation such
 a provision. 44. When the company is the offender, vicarious
 liability of the Directors cannot be imputed
 automatically, in the absence of any statutory
 provision to this effect. One such example is Section
 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. In
 Aneeta Hada7 the Court noted that if a group of
 persons that guide the business of the company
 have the criminal intent, that would be imputed to
 the body corporate and it is in this backdrop, Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act has to
 be understood. Such a position is, therefore,
 because of statutory intendment making it a
 deeming fiction. Here also, the principle of "alter
 ego", was applied only in one direction, namely,
 where a group of persons that guide the business
 had criminal intent, that is to be imputed to the
 body corporate and not the vice versa. Otherwise,
 there has to be a specific act attributed to the
 Director or any other person allegedly in control and
 management of the company, to the effect that such 7 Aneeta Hada v.Godfather Travels & Tours (P) Ltd., (2012) 5 SCC 661: (2012) 3 SCC (Civ) 3502012) 3 SCC (Cri) 241
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -24- a person was responsible for the acts committed by
 or on behalf of the company." 25. The next decision that is relied upon is also that of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case between POOJA

RAVINDER DEVIDASANI Vs. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA

AND ANOTHER8 wherein, the Court at Paras 19 to 21 of

the order, held as follows: 21. In Sabitha Ramamurthy v. R.B.S.Channabasavaradhya10, it was held by
 this Court that (SCC pp.584-85, para 7)

 "7. ... it is not necessary for the
 complainant to specifically reproduce the
 wordings of the section but what is
 required is a clear statement of fact so as
 to enable the court to arrive at a prima
 facie opinion that the accused is
 vicariously liable. Section 141 raises a
 legal fiction. By reason of the said
 provision, a person although is not
 personally liable for commission of such an
 offence would be vicariously liable
 therefor. Such vicarious liability can be
 inferred so far as a company registered or
 incorporated under the companies Act,
 1956 is concerned only if the requisite
 statements, which are required to be
 averred in the complaint petition, are made
 so as to make the accused therein
 vicariously liable for the offence committed
 by the company." 10 (2006) 10 SCC 581 (2007) 1 SCC (cri) 621
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -26- By verbatim reproducing the words of the section
 without a clear statement of fact supported by
 proper evidence, so as to make the accused
 vicariously liable, is a ground for quashing
 proceedings initiated against such person under Section 141 of the NI Act." 26. The Court, also at Para 30, observed as follows: 27. Thus, it is abundantly clear that when the allegation

is that any of the Directors, Partners, Managers, etc. of a

Company or a Firm, are involved in committing an offence
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -27- along with the Company or a Firm which has a corporate

or an artificial entity, there is every requirement to plead,

aver and establish that the said individuals have the

required knowledge/information or mens rea to commit

such acts which thereby attracts the provisions of law and

makes those individuals equally liable. 28. The above observation is due to the fact that the

criminal liability encompasses in itself actus reus and mens

rea. A Company or a Firm being an artificial juristic

person cannot in itself have these two elements. Therefore,

number of legislations makes a mention that every person,

who at the time of the commission of offence or

contravention of legislation, was incharge of and was

responsible to the Company or the Firm for the conduct of

the business as well as the company or the firm, shall be

deemed to be guilty of such offence or contravention and

thereby would be liable for punishment. 29. Corporate criminal liability is not unknown to Indian

sub-continent. The said concept which was derived from

the doctrine of "respondent Superior" though was largely
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -28- applied in the western countries, is recognized both under

criminal law and civil law jurisdictions of this country. Yet,

to fasten such criminal liability, there is every requirement

on part of the person who alleges, to establish the following

aspects:- 30. Except in the above circumstances, corporate

criminal liability is not expected to be tagged upon the

Directors, Managers, etc. of the company. However, the

above circumstances are not exhaustive and it depends on

facts and circumstances of each case. Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -29- 31. In the case on hand, no such circumstances are

projected to show that the petitioners 2 to 5 i.e. accused 2

to 5 with the required mens rea have participated with the

company and committed the offences that are alleged by

the de facto complainant. As earlier mentioned, even the

complaint is silent about such involvement and

participation. By the decisions that are referred supra, it

is also very much clear that the verbatic reproduction of

words of the section without clear statements of

participation does not make the Directors vicariously liable.

Therefore, this Court holds that the proceedings against

the petitioners 2 to 5 cannot be permitted to be continued. 32. Whether a civil dispute and a civil liability can be
permitted to be settled by launching a criminal
prosecution:- 33. The learned Assistant Public Prosecutor in this

regard submits that except through due investigation, the

truth would not come to light. 34. Stating that in the similar set of circumstances, the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India quashed the proceedings,

the learned counsel for the petitioners relied upon a

decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case between JOSEPH SALVARAJA Vs. STATE OF GUJARAT AND

OTHERS11 . Dealing with a case where the broadcast of a

religious channel "GOD TV" in some of the areas is the core

question and where the dispute arose regarding the

payment of amount and where ultimately a complaint was

lodged, the Hon'ble Supreme Court at Paras 17 & 18 of the

order, observed as follows:- 11 18. In fact, all these questions have been
 elaborately discussed by this Court in the most
 oftquoted judgment in State of Haryana v.Bhajan 12 (2009) 7 SCC 495: (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 461(2009) 3 SCC (Civ) 190
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -32- Lal13 where seven cardinal principles have been
 carved out before cognizance of offences, said to
 have been committed by the accused, is taken. The
 case in hand unfortunately does not fall in that
 category where cognizance of the offence could have
 been taken by the Court, at least after having gone
 through the FIR, which discloses only a civil
 dispute." 35. The observations made by the Hon'ble Apex Court

squarely applies to the facts of this case. Also, it is clearly

indicated by this Court through the discussion that went

on with regard to sustainability of a counterblast

complaint, that the criminal proceedings cannot be

permitted to continue for settling this case which can

otherwise be settled in the course of other proceedings that

are initiated earlier in time. Also, the dispute is purely civil

in nature. Whether there is delivery of goods or not cannot

be decided by a criminal Court. It is the core issue.

Therefore, this Court is of the opinion that continuation of

proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law.

Thus, the case that is taken up for discussion is concluded

by ultimately referring to a leading case on the subject. 13 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335:1992 SCC (Cri) 426
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -33- The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of State of Haryana

Vs.Bhajanlal14 at Para 102, enunciated the following

circumstances where the power under Section 482 can be

exercised: AIR 1992 SC 604
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -34- (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint
 are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of
 which no prudent person can ever reach a just
 conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding
 against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any
 of the provisions of the Code or the Act concerned (under
 which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institu-
 tion and continuance of the proceedings and/or where
 there is a specific provision in the Code or the Act
 concerned, providing efficacious redress for the
 grievance of the aggrieved party; (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended
 with mala fide and/or where the proceeding is
 maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for
 wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to
 spite him due to private and personal grudge." 36. The present case squarely falls under illustration

No.7. The criminal proceedings initiated by the 2nd

respondent/de facto complainant as found by record are

manifestly abuse of process of law. 37. Therefore, this Court ultimately considers that the

proceedings are liable to be quashed as prayed for. Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013 -35- Resultantly, the Criminal Petition is allowed. The

proceedings that are initiated against the petitioners in

Crime No.376 of 2012 of Langer House Police Station,

Hyderabad, are thereby quashed. 38. Miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending in this

Criminal Petition, shall stand closed. _____________________________________
 DR.JUSTICE CHILLAKUR SUMALATHA

Dated:18.02.2022

Note: LR copy to be marked. ysk
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013

THE HONOURABLE DR.JUSTICE CHILLAKUR SUMALATHA

 CRL.P.NO.1063 OF 2013

 Dated:18.02.2022
ysk
 Dr.CSL,J
 Crlp_1063_2013