BEFORE
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE HITESH KUMAR SARMA

05-08-2021

 The Court proceedings have been conducted through Video-Conference due

to COVID-19 pandemic. This is an application, filed under Section 438 of the Cr.PC. seeking pre- Page No.# 2/12

arrest bail of the accused-petitioner, namely, Mofidul Islam, in connection

with ACB P.S. Case No.18/2016 registered under Section 387 of the

Indian Penal Code, read with Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act,

1988. The fact of the case, as gathered from the contents of the FIR, is that the

informant Shehnaz Begum, appeared for viva-voce test for the post of District

Malaria Officer conducted by the Assam Public Service Commission (APSC) with

Shri Basanta Doley as Member of the APSC and Shri R.N. Talukdar, Assistant

Director, Malaria Technical Expert in the Board constituted for holding viva-voce

test aforesaid. It has further been alleged in the FIR that on 16.8.2016 at 8.44

A.M., she has received a call from mobile phone No.9864219610, the subscriber

of which was unknown to her. The said call lasted for 1 minute 17 seconds. She

has further alleged in the said FIR that during telephonic conversation, the caller

had enquired from her whether she is interested to have financial transaction

with the Board Members/APSC officials and she replied in the negative saying

that she has performed well in the viva-voce test and, therefore, there is no

question of having any financial transaction to get the job. The caller told her

that such response of the informant was unexpected and she was also told that

she would not get the job on the basis of her performance as she has refused to

do financial transaction with the Board Members. The informant later on came
 Page No.# 3/12

to know that the present petitioner is the subscriber of the aforesaid mobile

phone and he is a government official having close connection with the APSC

Member Shri Basanta Doley and Shri Samedur Rahman. I have heard Mr. Z. Kamar, learned senior counsel for the petitioner and Mr.

M. Phukan, learned Public Prosecutor, Assam. This Court has also taken note of

the short note placed before this Court by the learned senior counsel and also

the written objections submitted by the learned Public Prosecutor, which is

available on record. This Court, however, has decided to consider the argument

of both the parties found to be relevant in the context of the prayer for pre-

arrest bail. During the course of hearing, Mr. Kamar, learned senior counsel for the

petitioner has canvassed the following points to bring home his case for pre-

arrest bail. He has submitted that the Dibrugarh Police Station registered a case for 'Job

for Cash Scam' vide Dibrugarh P.S. Case No.936/2016. The said case was

registered on 27.10.2016. He has emphasized on the fact that that in the

charge-sheet of the said case, in paragraph 16.7, it has been specifically

mentioned that the present petitioner, who is the Soil Conservation Ranger,

worked as middleman of Shri Samedur Rahman as well as other arrested
 Page No.# 4/12

accused persons, for collection of money from the candidates appearing in

examination conducted by the APSC. He has further referred, very specifically,

to the content of paragraph 16.7(b) of the said charge-sheet, which reads as

follows :- Resisting such submission made by Mr. Kamar, learned senior counsel for the

petitioner, learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Phukan has submitted that this Court, in

the instant application, is dealing with a prayer for pre-arrest bail of the

petitioner under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

 I have noted the rival contentions of both the parties and decided not to

answer this issue in this application taking the view that this Court is engaged,

in this application, for consideration of the prayer for pre-arrest bail and,

therefore, to travel beyond that would amount to encroachment in the field

covered by Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

 Mr. Kamar, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has further canvassed

before this Court that the accusation made in the instant FIR is covered by the

facts as well as the charge-sheet in Dibrugarh P.S. Case No.936/2016. It has

further been submitted by the learned senior counsel for the petitioner that

even if any further information was received after the FIR in the aforesaid

Dibrugarh P.S. Case No.936/2016, that could have been treated as further

information received in furtherance of the first FIR in the above case and to

substantiate such position, he has again referred to the decision of the Hon'ble
 Page No.# 6/12

Supreme Court in Amitbhai Anilchandra Saha (supra). Countering such argument, Mr. Phukan, learned Public Prosecutor has

submitted that the offence in the aforesaid Dibrugarh P.S. Case No.936/2016

and series of offences connected with similar facts constitute a continuous

offence and, therefore, inspite of technical irregularities here and there, the fact

would remain that the accusation in the present FIR, is in effect, is a

continuation of the offence for which charge-sheet has been laid in the

aforesaid Dibrugarh P.S. Case No.936/2016. On consideration of the submissions made by Mr. Kamar, learned senior

counsel and counter submission made by Mr. Phukan, learned Public Prosecutor,

as above, and on consideration of the entire materials made available before

this Court, it appears that the basic accusation against the petitioner in the

Dibrugarh P.S. Case No.936/2016, as reproduced above vide paragraph 16.7(b)

of the charge-sheet, appears to be that the petitioner acted as a middleman for

providing job in connivance with the members of the relevant APSC Board for

different jobs for which examinations were conducted by the APSC. The present

informant was examined as a witness in the aforesaid Dibrugarh P.S. Case

No.936/2016 and the implication of the accused petitioner, as appears from the

statement of the informant of this case, has been reflected in paragraph 16.7(b)
 Page No.# 7/12

above. However, this Court refrains from making any observation and comment

in respect of the same in view of the stand taken by this Court in the forgoing

discussions in respect of the first point of argument by the respective learned

counsel for the parties. Now coming to the argument advanced by Mr. Kamar, learned senior counsel

for the petitioner, that Section 387 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 of the

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, as existed at the relevant point of time, are

not applicable in the instant case, taking into account the facts alleged.

According to him, none of the offences, for commission of which the case has

been registered, is attracted in the instant case to rope in the petitioner. He has

specifically submitted, with reference to Section 383 read with Section 387 of

the IPC that there is no offence of putting the informant to fear of any injury

nor there is delivery of any property, which are the essential elements to

constitute an offence punishable under Section 387 of the IPC.

 To counter such argument, Mr. Phukan, learned Public Prosecutor has

submitted that the informant was put in fear by the informant while the

petitioner said that she would not get job if financial transaction is not made.

 In the considered view of this Court, "fear" appearing in the provisions of Section 383 and 387 of the IPC means to convey "fear of causing injury", if the
 Page No.# 8/12

entire provisions, aforesaid, are read in combination. This Court is also of the

view that there is no scope for reading the words 'fear' in isolation with that of

'fear of injury'. However, this Court on a meticulous examination of the FIR itself

fails to persuade itself that a case, prima facie, has been made out against the

petitioner for an offence under Section 387 of the Indian Penal Code.

 Now as regards the accusation made against the petitioner under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, as then existed at the relevant point

of time of occurrence, Mr. Kamar, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has

submitted that the petitioner is a public servant in another Department and the

act alleged against him was not in discharge of his public duties since what he is

alleged to have been done was not done in his official capacity as part of the

official act. Learned Public Prosecutor has vehemently resisted this argument

and referred to Explanation (e) of Section 7 , as was existed at the relevant point

of time. (before amendment of the provision). Explanation (e) reads as follows :- Page No.# 9/12

 Referring to the said explanation, Mr. Phukan, learned Public Prosecutor has

submitted that the petitioner induced the informant erroneously to belief that he

had connection/influence with the Members of the APSC Board and, thereby, he

wanted to have gratification for the member of the APSC Board to ensure her

selection to the post of District Malaria Officer. I have peeped into the Explanation (e) quoted above together with the

alleged facts of the case. It appears from the contents of the FIR that in

consequence of the alleged inducement no further action, like giving money or

making any other transaction, had taken place and, therefore, although the

petitioner had allegedly attempted to induce her, the informant did not get

induced. Therefore, in the considered view of this Court, the example given in

Explanation (e) aforesaid does not appear to have any application to the facts of

this case. That apart, from the FIR itself it has come out that the informant

came to know at a later stage only that the petitioner have connection with the

members of APSC. Referring to the materials in the case diary, particularly, of a very relevant

witness, Mr. Phukan, learned Public Prosecutor, has submitted that Call Record

Detail (CDR) of the petitioner's mobile phone number reveals that there are

interactions amongst the present petitioner and some members of the APSC as
 Page No.# 10/12

well as some other officials thereof. It has also come out from the materials so

far collected by the investigating agency that the present petitioner also

contacted some candidates who had appeared in the selection test in order to

lure them to pay bribe in lieu of selection/giving job to them. But, it appears

from such materials in the case diary that said witness had implicated the

petitioner with his involvement with the offence relating to seeking bribe for

providing job to certain numbers of candidates. However, the facts remains that

the CDR have already been found by the investigating agency in respect of the

calls made from the mobile phone of the petitioner. In view of the above, there

does not appear to have any justifiable reason for custodial interrogation of the

petitioner on this count alone. The settled principle of law, so far bail is concerned, is that the Court should

see the nature and gravity of the offence, the position and status of the accused

with reference to the victim and the witnesses, the likelihood of the accused

fleeing from justice or repeating the offence. I have considered all these aspects

in the light of the facts and circumstances of the instant case as well as also

from the materials in the case diary. The Court has taken note of the fact that

the petitioner, who is a Government servant, admittedly under suspension, has

not been arrested till date and, therefore, after about 5(five) years he has come

before this Court with the instant application seeking pre-arrest bail. It has
 Page No.# 11/12

come out from the materials on record, particularly from the petition itself that

the petitioner had recently been granted bail in the aforesaid Dibrugarh P.S.

Case No.936/2016 by this Court and he has been released on bail by the

learned Special Judge, Assam, as directed by this Court. Still no effort is found

to have been made by the investigating agency to arrest the petitioner for more

than three months now. It has also come out from the materials available

before this Court that in the aforesaid Dibrugarh P.S. Case No.936/2016, the

police has filed charge sheet showing the present petitioner in the absconder

column, whereas the same action is not found to have been taken in the instant

case. That apart, this Court has noticed that after 13.04.2021, no action has

been taken in respect of the investigation of the case.

 In view of the discussion above and the reasons recorded during such

discussion, this Court is inclined to grant pre-arrest bail to the petitioner and,

hence, granted. Accordingly, it is provided that in the event of arrest of the petitioner above

named, in connection with the case aforementioned, he shall be released on bail

on his furnishing bail bond of Rs.50,000/-, with two suitable sureties of the like

amount, to the satisfaction of arresting authority. The direction for pre-arrest bail is subject to the conditions that the
 Page No.# 12/12

petitioner : The petition stands disposed of accordingly. Return the case diary. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant