Coram: Honble Ms. Archana Wadhwa, Judicial Member

		Hon'ble Mr Sahab Singh, Technical Member

Appearance:Mr. Sanjay Jain, DR for the Appellants

 Mr. J.C. Patel, Adv. for the Respondent 

Date of Hearing: 08.01.2013

 Date of Decision:	03.04.2013 INTERIM ORDER NO. 203/2013 FINAL ORDER NO . 57491/2013 Per Ms. Archana Wadhwa

 Being aggrieved with the order passed by Commissioner, vide which he has dropped the demand against respondent M/s MSS Food Products and has dropped the show cause notice issued to them, revenue has filed the present appeal. 2.	M/s. MSS Food Products are engaged in the manufacture of Pan Masala, Gutkha and Mouth Freshner under brand names of SHIMLA & VANSH falling under Chapter 2106 & 2402 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 . The appellant was purchasing packaging materials that is printed laminates, pouches from M/s Flex Industries Ltd. The officers conducted simultaneous searches on 7th January 2002 at factory premises of:- 3.	On preliminary scrutiny of the records of M/s. Flex Industries Ltd., Malanpur, it was observed that there was regular production of Shimla brand laminates and outer pouches in their factory. However, M/s Flex Industries Ltd., Malanpur had issued invoices in the name of M/s MSS Food Products, Indore only in the month of June & September 2001. The sales orders lying in the factory did not show the details of brand names of laminates / pouches to be supplied to the customers. The officers further observed that M/s Flex Industries were not showing details of brand wise production in their records. Such details were also not available in Central Excise invoices. However, the unit was drawing brand wise stock statement of finished goods in an interval of 2/3 days. On verification, 850 boxes of laminates and 270 boxes of pouches of Shimla brand were found in stock. Shri A.P. Singh, Sr.GM (marketing) of M/s. Flex Industries Ltd., Noida in his statement dated 08.01.2002 and 25.04.2002, interalia, stated that they had supplied Shimla Brand laminates/pouches to M/s MSS Food Products, Indore and also to other buyers. Shri Anil Sharma, A.G.M. (Commercial) of M/s Flex Industries in his statement dated 07.01.2002, and 25.05.2002 also confirmed that Shimla Brand of Laminates/Pouches had been removed from their factory in the name of the parties and addresses other than M/s MSS Food Products, Indore also and that in the laminate packing register (weight Register), the abbreviation SPM stood for Shimla Pan Masala. Sri Subodh Sharma, Section Incharge, (Officer Commercial) of M/s Flex Industries in his statement dated 09.01.02, 9/10-03-2002 and 26.04.2002 also confirmed that they were putting the short name (abbreviated names) of the items on the cartons of their packaging material and that he was aware that particular variety of goods being dispatched does not belong/pertain/relatable to the customers to whom the goods have been consigned. 4.	The officers also searched the factory premises of M/s MSS Food Products, Sanwer Road, Indore on 07.01.2002 and found 60 machines in the premises meant for manufacture of Pan Masala and Gutkha. There was a stock of pre-printed laminates of Shimla Pan Masala 2 in 1 besides laminates of Shimla Gutkha and Pan Masala which on verification tallied with the recorded balance. 5.	Shri Nitesh Wadhwani, Partner of the party admitted that laminates in the form of rolls and pouches were being purchased by them from M/s Flex Industries Ltd., Malanpur and NOIDA and some other manufacturers of Delhi; that there was no written agreement with suppliers of the packaging material; that their machines could produce 50-60 pouches per minute and the production was being taken in one shift only; that there was no other unit except M/s MSS Food products, Indore in Sanwer Road, who manufacture Shimla Brand Pan Masala, Gutkha and Mouth Freshner. In his further statement dated 07.03.2002, he stated that they had sold only one consignment of Shimla Gutkha to M/s Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar vide invoice No. 305/09-10-2001 and that he was not aware about their salesman who was reported to have sold the said goods subsequently at Jabalpur. 6.	The officers also searched the office godown premises of M/s Shri Saibaba Transport Services, Gwalior, and resumed documents as also laminate bearing descriptions Shimla Gutkha Saffron Yukt and Shimla Meethi Supari bearing manufacturers name M/s MSS Food Products. The statement of the authorized representatives was recorded. Similarly, the search of godown premises of M/s Pitambara Freight Carrier, Pinto park, Gwalior resulted in recovery of 148 boxes of laminates bearing the details of M/s MSS Food Products. The statement of their Manager was also recorded. The search the office premises of M/s MSS Hans Travels, Indore also resulted in recovery of 5 bags of Shimla Pan Masala/Shimla Mouth Freshner Statement of their manager Shri Nitin Gupta, was also recorded along with the statement of Shri Arvind Gupta. 7.	On scrutiny of the records resumed from M/s MSS Hans Travels, it was revealed that there were signatures of the consignees representative in token of having received the goods. It was further found that even though the laminates were booked by M/s Flex Industry Ltd. for other places, the goods were delivered/unloaded at Indore itself. Hand writing and finger-print Expert, Shri C.T. Sarwate, has opined that the signatures appearing on the receipts of M/s Hans Travels were, are of Shri Subhash Joshi and Shri Amarchand Upadhyay, the employees of the party M/s MSS Food Products. 8.	During the course of investigation, it was found that M/s Flex Industries Ltd. had created certain accounts in the name of various parties, which were found to be fictitious. It was also found that the requisition for consideration of the laminate purchased from M/s Flex Industries Ltd. was being made by M/s MSS Food Products through their purchaser of final product. Their statements were also recorded. 9.	On the above basis, revenue entertained view a that the respondent was engaged in clandestine activities and accordingly show cause notice was issued raising demand of duty of Rs. 43,48,552.50 on the allegation that the laminates shelter by M/s Flex Industries to independent buyers against cash were in fact received by M/s MSS Food Products, who have named their final product without recording the said receipt of packing material in their record. Further, demand of duty of Rs. 13,50,400 was raised in respect of the luggage received by the said respondent and not entered in their record on the ground that they have not shown the use of the same. 10.	In their defence submissions, the respondent submitted that the Revenues allegation is based upon assumption and presumption in as much as there is no conclusive evidence on record to show that the lamination sold by M/s MSS Flex Industries to other buyers, were, in fact received by the respondent. Shri A.P. Singh of M/s Flex Industries had clearly deposed that they were supplying the lamination bearing the brand name of Shimla to various persons. They also drew the attention of the adjudicating authority to the statement of Shri Ganesh Prashad Shivhare of M/s Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar deposing that they had purchased Shimla Pan Masala and Shimla Mouth Freshener from M/s Shivam Sales Corporation. They contended that Shivam Sales Corporation, was also manufacturing Gutkha and Pan Masala using their brand name of the respondent and were also granted Central Excise Register by the revenue. In fact, they have filed a police report against such manufactures of Pan Masala which were manufacturing the goods using their name. Further, to rebutt the opinions of the handwriting expert, they produced another report by Shri A.N. Ganorkar, a handwriting expert, who after examination of the signatures bearing in the transport documents and other documents with the admitted signature of the said persons, opined that the signature were actually forged and held that the signature were in fact not written but were crude formations of letter forms showing tremors of fraud, uneven line quality, uneven lining etc. They also contended that the allegation of clandestine removal cannot be upheld on the basis of packing material allegedly supplied by M/s Flex Industries Ltd., without their being any other evidence of record of show the procurement to the raw-materials. 11.	The Commissioner considered the above submission of the appellant and dropped the allegation by observing as under: 12.	As regards the dropping of demand of Rs. 13,50,400/- he held that the revenue has not produced any evidence to show that the received lamination was not put to use by the appellant. The charges of clandestine removal are without any corroboration from the other sources and any evidence of purchase of excess raw-material. 13.	For the above findings he relied upon various decision of the tribunal and in fact placed strong reliance on the Tribunal decision in the case of M/s Collector and others Vs. CCE, Kanpur, 1999(109) E.L.T.640(Tribunal). 14.	The revenue in their memo of appeal has challenged the said order of Commissioner by submitting that there is sufficient evidence or record indicating clandestine manufacture and clearance by the respondent Product. The various evidences relied upon by the revenue or stand re-capitulated by them, in brief, as under:- 15.	We have gone through the impugned order and have considered the submissions made by both the sides. The charges against the respondent are that they are manufacturing and clearing their final products pan masala, gutka and mouth freshener under the brand name of SHIMLA& VANSH without payment of duty. The said charges are based upon the scrutiny of records of the packing material supplier M/s Flex Industries Limited. Commissioner has considered the said evidences produced on record by the revenue and come to a conclusion that the same are not sufficient evidences for holding the charges against the respondent. 16.	The Revenue in their memo of appeal have reiterated the same very evidences which were referred to in the show cause notice. It is seen that Shri Anil Sharma, AGM (Commercial) of M/s Flex Industries, in his statement has admitted that the packing material printed in the name of Shimla was also being sold by them to the other parties. According to the Revenue the other persons, to whom the said packing material was being sent were fictitious and the packing material was, in fact, was being received by the appellant. For the above purposes, they have also relied upon the handwriting expert opinion of Shri Sarwate, in respect of signatures of the two employees of the respondent appearing on the transport documents It is however not cross- was examined on account of his death. As against the above, the respondent have produced an opinion from another handwriting expert Shri Ganorkar, which is contrary to the revenues stand. Ld. Commissioner has rightly relied upon the precedent decisions laying down that the handwriting expert opinion is a weak evidence. As such on the face of their being two contra opinions, not much reliance can be placed on the same. 17.	Apart from the above, we note that the entire case of the revenue is wholly based on sale of packing material by M/s Flex Industries. As per the statement of official of M/s Flex Industries they have never enquired into the bonafide of their customers and were clearing the goods, who so ever came forward for placing order upon them. The Revenue has not produced any evidence beyond doubt that other buyers of M/s Flex Industries were in fact not available and inasmuch as M/s MSS Food Products are known as Shimlawale, that it has to be held that the entire packing material was supplied to the respondent. The appellate authority has rightly held the above evidence to be in the nature of hearsay. He has also referred to another manufacturing unit located in Lucknow manufacturing chemical with the brand name of Shimla who are also known as Shimlawale. As such he has rightly held that the revenue has a weak case. 18.	Apart from the above we also find that the assessee has strongly contended before the authorities below that there were other manufacturing unit of Gutka under the same brand name and they have filed FIR in number of such dubious manufacturer. Various writ petitions also stand filed by them in different High Courts. Trade Mark Authorities, on their complaint had also conducted number of searches in this manner. All these evidences do not stand rebutted by the revenue. If that be so, the Revenue cannot solely rely upon the fact that M/s Flex Industries was clearing packing material with the printed Shimla brand name and such clearances have to be necessarily held as having been made to the respondent, who utilise the same for the clandestine manufacture and clearance of their final product. 19.	We also find favour with the finding of lower authorities that there is no financial corroboration of payment of such illegally procured packing material from M/s Flex Industries. The modus operandi, referred to by the revenue as regards adjustment of the dues under the name of some fictitious parties, cannot be made the basis for establishing the case against the respondent. The lower authorities have rightly relied upon various decision to hold that such charges are to be proved out of positive and tangible evidences and not on the basis of certain doubts, which may arise against the assessee. 20.	We further note that apart from the above, revenue has not referred to any procurement of raw materials etc. in a clandestine manner. Admittedly, for manufacture of such huge quantity of the final product, the raw materials are required. There is not even any iota of evidence on record to reflect upon such procurement of raw material. As such, we are of the view that the revenue has failed miserably to hold against the respondent and to establish the charges of clandestine removal made against them. Nothing incriminating was recovered from the assessees factory at the time of their searches of the factory premises or go-down etc. The stock of pre-printed laminated fully tallied with the declared stock in the statutory records. 21.	We also note that all the statement of the respondents authorised representative are exculpatory in nature and there is no admission in any of the statement regarding their clandestine activities. The respondent have referred to various decisions of the Tribunal laying down with such clandestine activities are to be proved beyond doubt by production of positive and direct evidence and in the absence of the same, the charge of clandestine activity cannot be upheld. We note that the said legal issue is well settled law and does not require the support of any judicial pronouncement. We are not referring to the same so as to make order length. 22.	In view of the foregoing, we note that there is no infirmity in the impugned order of the Commissioner. Revenues appeal is accordingly rejected. (Pronounce in the open Court on 03.04.2013)

 (Archana Wadhwa)

 Member (Judicial)

				

 				 

 (Sahab Singh) 

 Member (Technical)

 

Jyoti*

Per Sahab Singh:- 5(i)	I find that Shri C.T. Sarwate was an handwriting expert and Additional Commissioner working with Government of Madhya Pradesh whereas Shri Ganwarkar was retired officer and working as Consultant and his services were available to anyone on certain fees. In my view, between the two, opinion of the handwriting expert and Additional Commissioner working with the M.P. Government should prevail over the opinion of a private expert. 6.	Investigation also revealed that M/s Flex Industries had credited certain amount received through DDs in the name of fictitious parties. Statement of Shri Manoj Aggarwal Proprietor of M/s Manoj Store dealing in business of Pan Masala and Gutka revealed that he was purchasing Shimla Pan Masala Gutka from Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar without any pucca bill issued for such sale and he was making payment for such pan masala in the form of demand draft in the name of M/s Flex Industries Similarly, Shyam Bihari Aggarwal of Shyam Bihari Traders also stated that payments of Pan masala/gutka purchased from Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar in the form of demand drafts in the name of M/s Flex Industries. 7.	Further the receipt book of the courier shows that the letters were in fact dispatched by these traders to Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar on the same/next date on which the DD was drawn. Also during the search of premises of Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar there was seizure of Pan Masala and Shimla Gutka as these goods were without any duty paying documents. These activities indicate that Shimla brand laminates/ pouches issued in the name of non-existent firms/companies were in fact going to appellant M/s MSS Food Products clandestinely to be used in the clandestine removal of the 

pan Masala/Gutka and the payment in respect of these laminates/pouches was being received by M/s Flex Industries through DD. This arrangement was made between the appellant and M/s Flex Industries just to evade the payment of Central Excise duty. 11.	In view of the above, I am of the view that impugned order in original needs to be set aside and Revenues appeal allowed. (Sahab Singh)

 								Member (Technical)

 

 

 

 

 Difference of Opinion

 

 

 	Whether Revenues appeal is required to be rejected upholding the order in original as held by Honble Member (Judicial)

 

 					Or

 

 	Revenues appeal is required to be allowed after setting aside the order in original as held by Member (Technical). (Archana Wadhwa)

				 Member (Judicial)

(Sahab Singh)

Member (Technical)

MPS* 

Per Rakesh Kumar:- 1.1.1 Neither any incriminating documents were recovered nor were any irregularity was deducted in the premises of the Respondent. 1.1.2	 In the premises of M/s. Flex, some documents were found which showed that the outer pouches meant for packing of the products of the Respondent, in addition to being sold to them, were also being sold and despatched by M/s. Flex to a number of parties other than the Respondent. In this regard, when the inquiry was made with officials of M/s. Flex, they admitted that the outer pouches for packing of Gutkha/Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner of Shimla & Vansh brand of the Respondent, were also being sold to parties other than Respondent. 1.1.3 In course of search at the premises of Transporters, boxes containing plastic outer pouches meant for packing of retail pouches of Shimla & Vansh brand of the Gutkha/Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner of the Respondent were recovered. These consignments despatched by M/s. Flex were consigned to the parties other than the Respondents. However on inquiry, the consignees of those consignments were found to be fictitious and non-existent. In this regard, the records of M/s. Hans Travels, Indore indicated that during the period from Oct.2001 to Dec.2001, 117100 nos. of outer pouches for Shimla Pan Masala 2-in-1, had been delivered to Sarasati & Sons, Akola; 176800 nos. of outer porches for Shimla Pan Masala had been delivered to M/s. Sukhram Traders, Nashik; 377600 nos. of outer pouches for Shimla Mouth Freshner (20 gms.) had been delivered to M/s. Salil Enterprises, Pune; and 52000 nos. of outer pouches for Shimla Mouth Freshner had been delivered to M/s. Mohit Enterprises, Amravati. If these outer pouches were used for packing of retail pouches of Shimla & Vansh brand Gutkha, Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner, the total duty involved on the goods packed in these outer pouches would be Rs.43,48,552/-. However, on inquiry, M/s. Sarasati & Sons, Akola; M/s. Sukhram Traders, Nashik; M/s. Salil Enterprises, Pune & M/s. Mohit Enterprises, Amravati, were found to be fictitious. On inquiry with the employees of M/s. Hans Travels and scrutiny of their records it appeared that these outer pouches, though consigned to M/s. Sarasati & Sons, Akola; M/s. Sukhram Traders, Nashik; M/s. Salil Enterprises, Pune & M/s. Mohit Enterprises, Amravati had been delivered to the Respondent, as in this regard, Sh. Arvind Gupta, Manager of M/s. Hans Travels, Indore, gave a statement dt. 25.01.02 stating that above consignments of outer pouches received from M/s.Flex had been delivered to representatives of Shimlawale and in this regard he produced luggage delivery sheets with signatures of the recipients representatives. The investigating officers were of the view that the signatures on the luggage delivery sheets are the signatures of Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh. Amar Chand Upadhyay, employees of the Respondent. The luggage delivery sheets of M/s. Hans Travels also contained a remark in respect of consignments meant for M/s. Sarasati & Sons, Akola; M/s. Sukhram Traders, Nashik; M/s. Salil Enterprises, Pune & M/s. Mohit Enterprises, Amravati that the same pertain to Shimlawale. The investigating officers obtained the sample signatures of Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh. Amar Chand Upadhyay of the Respondent and sent the same to Government hand writing expert Sh. C.T.Sarvate along with luggage delivery sheets recovered from M/s. Hans Travels, Indore for his opinion as to whether the signatures on the luggage delivery sheets recovered from M/s. Hans Travels are same as the sample signatures of Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh. Amar Chand Upadhyay, the employees of Respondent company. Sh.C.T.Sarvate vide letter dt. 19.04.02 gave his opinion that signatures on the luggage delivery sheets recovered from M/s. Hans Travels are, indeed, of Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh. Amar Chand Upadhyay of the Respondents. However on inquiry, Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh. Amar Chand Upadhyay of the Respondent Company denied having taken delivery of the consignments of outer pouches in question, claiming that their signatures have been forged by somebody. However on the basis of hand writing experts opinion and statement of Sh. Arvind Gupta of M/s. Hans Travels, the Investigating Officers were of the view that the outer pouches booked by M/s Flex in the name of M/s. Sarasati & Sons, Akola; M/s. Sukhram Traders, Nashik; M/s. Salil Enterprises, Pune & M/s. Mohit Enterprises, Amravati through M/s. Hans Travels had actually been received by the Respondent and used in the manufacture of un-accounted Gutkha/Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner involving duty of Rs.43,48,552/- which had been cleared clandestinely. 1.2 It was also found that there was evidence from which it appeared that payments for the outer pouches being received by the Respondent from M/s. Flex Industries Ltd., in the name of fictitious parties were being arranged by the Respondents through some other parties. 1.3	Besides this, it was also found that while the Respondent during the period from June01 to Sept.01 had purchased 13500 outer pouches for Shimla Mouth Freshner under invoice dt.12.06.01, 16000 outer pouches for 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala under invoice dt. 20.08.01; 80000 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha under invoice dt. 20.08.01 and 32000 outer pouches for Shimla Mouth Freshner under invoice dt. 09.09.01 from M/s. Flex, on 07.01.02, the date of officers visit to the Respondents factory, there was no stock of these outer pouches, but in their records for the period from Sept.01 to Dec.01 period, they have shown consumption of only 21800 outer pouches of Shimla Gutkha and no production of 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala was shown. On this basis it is alleged that 58200 outer pouches of Shimla Gutkha and 16000 outer pouches of 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala have been used in production of Shimla Gutkha and 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala, which had been cleared clandestinely without payment of duty. Duty demand of Rs. 13,50,400/- is on this basis (para 34 of the Show Cause Notice). 1.3 From the business premises of M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar, Jabalpur, stock of Shimla brand Gutkha, Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner valued at Rs.8,253/- was seized on 02.03.02, in respect of which Sh. Ganesh Shivhare, Proprietor M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar, could not produce any document regarding payment of duty. A consignment of Shimla Gutkha and Pan Masala valued at Rs. 54,720/- was also seized from the premises of M/s. Hans Travels, Gwalior in respect of which there were no duty paying documents. The duty involved on the goods seized from the premises of M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar, Jabalpur and M/s. Hans Travels, Gwalior was Rs. 12,397/-. The Investigating Officers were of the view that these goods had been clandestinely cleared by the Respondent without payment of duty by using the unaccounted outer pouches. 1.5 On the basis of the above investigation, a Show Cause Notice dt.02.01.03 was issued to the Respondent for demand of Central Excise duty amounting to Rs.57,11,349/-(43,48,552+13,50,400+ 12,397/-) along with interest, confiscation of the Shimla Gutkha, Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner valued at Rs. 8,253/- and Rs. 54,720/- seized from the premises of M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar, Jabalpur, and M/s. Hans Travels, Gwalior respectively and also for imposition of penalty on the Respondent under section 11AC. Besides this, the Show Cause Notice also sought imposition of penalty of other parties including transporters etc. under Rule 209A of the Central Excise Rules, 1944/Rule 26 of Central Excise Rules, 2001. 1.6 The above Show Cause Notice was adjudicated by Commissioner vide order-in-original dt.11.02.04 by which he dropped the proceedings against all the noticees including the Respondent Company. This order of the Commissioner was reviewed by the Board and in this regard the Board vide Order dt. 17.02.07 under Section 35E(1) of the Central Excise Act, 1944, directed the Commissioner to filed an appeal to the Tribunal for correct determination of the points mentioned therein. 1.7 In pursuance of the order of the Board, Commissioner filed this appeal before the Tribunal. After hearing of this matter by the Tribunal on 08.01.2013, while Honble Member (J) upheld the impugned order of the Commissioner holding that there is no infirmity in it, Honble Member (T) in a separate order, ordered for allowing the Revenues appeal. The point of difference which has been referred to the undersigned for decision is as to whether the Revenues appeal is required to be rejected upholding the order-in-original, as held by the Honble Member (J) or whether the Revenues appeal is required to be allowed after setting aside the order-in-original, as held by the Honble Member (T). 2 Heard both the sides on the point of difference. 3 Sh.Sanjay.Jain, Ld. departmental representative, assailed the impugned order by reiterating the grounds of appeal and emphasized the following points:- 4 Sh. Ramesh Nair, Advocate, the ld. Counsel for the Respondent Company, defended the impugned order and made the following submissions:- 5. I have considered the submissions from both the sides and perused the records. The un-disputed facts are that:- 6. Though the outer pouches meant for packing of Shimla and Vansh brand Gutkha/ Pan Masala & Mouth Freshner are shown to have to have been sold by M/s. Flex to a number of fictitious firms, namely; M/s. Sarasati & Sons, Akola; M/s. Sukhram Traders, Nashik; M/s. Salil Enterprises, Pune & M/s. Mohit Enterprises, Amravati; M/s. S. Miss Hill Enterprises, Pune; M/s. Sarafat Ali & Co., Pune; M/s. Shabnam Enterprises Nashik; M/s. Sarath Enterprises, Nashik; M/s. K.K.Traders, Delhi; M/s. Twin Star Sales Corporation, Rajkot; M/s. TRJ Sales, Gaya; M/s. Full Fun Enterprises, Patna & M/s. Harkishanlal & Sons, Ranchi, the duty demand of Rs. 43,48,552/- in this case is based only on the supply of outer pouches by M/s. Flex to M/s. Sarasati & Sons, Akola; M/s. Sukhram Traders, Nashik; M/s. Salil Enterprises, Pune & M/s. Mohit Enterprises, Amravati through M/s. Hans Travels, as according to the Department, the outer pouches despatched in the name of these parties through M/s. Hans Travels have actually been received by the Respondent Company and have been used in the manufacture of finished products which had been cleared clandestinely without payment of duty. In this regard the main evidence relied upon by the Department is as under:- 6.1 Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh.A.C.Upadhyay, however, in their respective statements have denied having received any consignment of outer pouches in the name of the above mentioned firms and have claimed that the signatures on the luggage delivery sheets are not their signatures and somebody has forged their signature. In this regard, the Respondent rely upon the opinion of another hand writing expert Sh. A.N.Ganorkar given by him on reference by the Respondent wherein he has opined that the impugned signatures are not the genuine signatures of Sh.Subhash Joshi and Sh.A.C. Upadhyay. 6.2 Thus so far as the duty demand of Rs. 43,48,552/- is concerned, the point of dispute is as to whether the consignments of outer pouches despatched by M/s. Flex M/s. to Sarasati & Sons, M/s. Sukhram Traders, M/s. Salil Enterprises & M/s. Mohit Enterprises, through M/s. Hans Travels were actually received by Respondent Company and whether on this basis duty demand of Rs.43,48,552/- can be confirmed against them, on the assumption that outer pouches, in question, have been used by them in packing of Gutkha/Pan Masala & Mouth Freshner, cleared without payment of duty and without issue of invoices. 6.3 On considering the rival submissions on this point, I find that the statement of Sh. Arvind Gupta of M/s. Hans Travels, on this point wherein he, after referring to Luggage delivery sheets, stated that the consignments booked in the name of M/s. Sarasati & Sons, M/s. Sukhram Traders, M/s. Salil Enterprises & M/s. Mohit Enterprises as consignees, were received by representatives of Shimlawale and that there is no party called Shimlawale other than the manufacturer of Shimla brand Gutkha and pan Masala, does not specifically name the Respondent Company or its employees. The Respondent have pleaded that during the period of dispute, there were a number of other persons who also manufactured Pan Masala and Gutkha by un-authorisedly using the brand name of the Respondent and in this regard several complaints with the police had been filed and a notice had also been issue to M/s. Flex Industries Ltd. This plea of the Respondent discussed in para 72 of the impugned order has not been refuted by the Department. Moreover, there are also News Papers reports regarding un-authorized manufacture of Shimla brand Gutkha/Pan Masala by the persons other than the Respondent by un-authorisedly using their brand name. In view of these facts, the possibility of the outer pouches meant for packing of Shimla brand Gutkha and Pan Masala & Mouth Freshner manufactured by the Respondent, which had been despatched by M/s.Flex to persons other than the Respondent, having been received and used by other un-authorized manufacturers of Gutkha/Pan Masala using the Respondents brand name un-authorisedly can not be ruled out. Therefore, the statement of Sh. Arvind Gupta of M/s. Hans Travels stating that the consignment of outer pouches despatched by M/s. Flex Industries to M/s. Sarasati & Sons, M/s. Sukhram Traders, M/s. Salil Enterprises & M/s. Mohit Enterprises had been received by the representatives of Shimlawale, can not be treated as an evidence of these goods having been received by the Respondent, as per, the findings of the commissioner in para 72 of the impugned order, which are not disputed, there were other un-authorized manufacturers who were also manufacturing Gutkha & Pan Masala by un-authorisedly using the brand name of the Respondent. In this regard, the Department had not refuted the Respondents plea that they had initiated legal proceedings for un-authorised use of their brand name Shimla against three persons:- M/s. Shivam Sales Corporation, Mauranipur, M/s. Ravindranath & Co., Kanpaur and M/s. Shri Shrichand, Punjwani, Indore that Departmental authorities had conducted investigation against M/s. Shivam Sales Corporation the report of which has not been relied upon and that the good seized from M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar were duplicate goods manufactured by M/s. Shivam Sales Corporation by unauthorized use of the Respondents brand name. Even if it is assumed that Sh. Arvind Gupta, by Shimlawale mentioned in his statement meant the Respondent Company, this statement, which is in the nature of admission of a witness implicating another person, by itself, is of little evidentiary value as:- 6.3.1 This leaves the question as to what is the evidentiary value of the opinion of Sh. C.T.Sarwate and whether on the basis of the opinion of the Govt. handwriting expert Sh. C.T.Sarwate, it can be concluded that the consignments of outer pouches, in question, despatched through M/s. Hans Travels in the name of M/s. Sarasati & Sons, M/s. Sukhram Traders, M/s. Salil Enterprises and M/s. Mohit Enterprises had been received by Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh. A.C.Upadhyay, the employees of the Respondent company on their behalf. 6.3.2 The proof by identification of handwriting or signature can be:- The evidence in form of opinion of a handwriting expert is opinion evidence. The science of identification of a person on the basis of his handwriting or signatures is based on the assumption that although a persons handwriting may vary as to its precise details, yet in its general habitual characteristics, it is the same, as personality of a person enters into his handwriting and becomes an unconscious and dominant habit which gives an identity to every handwriting. On account of the very nature of the science of handwriting and signature identification, it is not be an exact science like identification of a person on the basis of his finger prints, DNA or other biometric parameters. Honble M.P.High Court in case of Mohammad Umer Vs. State reported in 1986 (26) ELT-724 (M.P.), Honble Jharkhand High Court in case of Bidesh Singh Vs. Madhu Singh reported in 2005 AIHC 1317 (1333) (Jhar.) and Honble Bombay High Court in case of Bhargav.K.Salunkhe Vs. State of Maharashtra , reported in 1996 Cri  LJ 1228, 1232 (Bom.) have held that opinion of handwriting expert is a weak evidence which should be taken with caution and is not reliable unless supported by other independent evidence. Apex Court in case of Bhargav Vs. Maharaj reported in A 1973 SC-1245 and in case of Murarilal Vs. State , reported in A 1980 SC-531 has held that:- Honble Punjab & Haryana High Court in case of Balbir Singh Vs. Sarup Singh reported on 2004(2) Punj. LR 430 (P&H) has held that court was perfectly justified in ignoring the divergent report of two handwriting experts and placing reliance on the testimony of two attesting witnesses and the scribe of the will. In a judgment in case of Padma Priya Vs. Dharamdass reported in 15CWN 728, it has been held that opinion of a handwriting expert, when he is not called as witness and subject to cross examination is not admissible in evidence. Apex Court in case of Ramesh Chandra Agrawal Vs. Regency Hospital Ltd. , reported in 2009(9) SCC-769, has relying upon its earlier judgment in case of state of Maharashtra Vs. Damu S/o Gopinath Shinde & others, reported in AIR 2999 SC-1691, held that without examining the expert as a witness in court, no reliance can be placed on his opinion. 6.3.3 From the judgments of the Apex Court and various high courts as discussed above, it is clear that consistent view of the courts with regard to opinion of handwriting expert has been that:- 6.3.4 In this case, the allegation against the Respondent Company is sought to be proved by the opinion of the handwriting expert Sh. C.T.Sarwate, as Sh. Arvind Gupta of M/s. Hans Travels has not named Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh. A.C.Upadhyay, the employees of the Respondent, as the persons who had taken delivery of the consignments of outer pouches in his presence and had signed the delivery sheets and neither anyone familiar with their signatures has identified the signature on the luggage delivery sheets nor they have accepted the signature on the luggage delivery sheets as their signatures. For testing the correctness of the opinion of Sh. Sarwate, his cross examination was necessary, as other handwriting expert Sh. A.N.Ganorkar has given a contrary opinion and both Sh. Subhash Joshi and Sh. A.C.Upadhyay have stated that signatures on the documents of M/s. Hans Travels are not their signatures. But cross examination of Sh. Sarwate was not possible on account of his death. Therefore, the opinion of Sh. C.T.Sarwate, by itself, has no evidentiary value and in view of the judgments of Apex Court, and various high courts, mentioned above it not even admissible as evidence. 6.4 Thus, merely on the basis of the statement of Sh. Arvind Gupta of M/s. Hans Travels and the opinion of hand writing expert Sh. C.T.Sarwate, it can not be concluded that the consignments of outer pouches despatched to M/s. Sarasati & Sons, M/s. Sukhram Traders, M/s. Salil Enterprises & M/s. Mohit Enterprises had actually been received by the Respondent. In this regard, the revenue relies upon another evidence, which is that two dealers M/s. Manoj Provision Stores, Chattarpur & M/s. S.B.Traders, Chattarpur had purchased bank drafts payable to M/s. Flex Industries Ltd. and on enquiry, they stated that they have purchased those drafts on the instructions of Sh. Ganesh Shivhare of M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar, Jabalpur against purchase of Shimla brand Gutkha & Pan Masala from them. However, Sh.Ganesh Shivhare has denied giving any such instructions to M/s. Manoj Provision Stores & M/s. S.B.Traders and there is absolutely no evidence to link M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar, Jabalpur with the Respondent, from which it can be concluded that on the basis of instructions of the Respondent, M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar had got the demand drafts payable to M/s. Flex industries Ltd. purchased through M/s. Manoj Provisional Stores and M/s. S.B.Traders and because of this missing link, the purchase of demand drafts payable to M/s. Flex Industries Ltd. by M/s. Manoj Provision Store and M/s. S.B.Traders can not be linked to the Respondent. Thus the Departments allegation that payment for purchase of outer pouches from M/s. Flex Industries in the name of fictitious parties was being arranged by the Respondent through M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar, M/s. Manoj Provision Stores & M/s. S.B.Traders remains un-substantiated. 6.5 When as discussed above, the allegation of un-accounted receipt of outer pouches for packing of retail pouches of Gutkha, Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner cannot be upheld, the presumption of un-accounted manufacture of retail pouches of Gutkha, Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner and their clearance without payment of duty, cannot be made and as such, the duty demand against the Respondent cannot be upheld. 6.6 Thus, the evidence of record is not sufficient to uphold duty demand of Rs. 43,48,552/-. 7. As regards the duty demand on the goods valued at Rs. 54,720/- bearing Shimla brand seized from M/s. Hans Travels, Gwalior and their confiscation, the proceedings for the same have been rightly dropped as:- 7.1	As regards the duty demand on the goods valued at Rs. 8,253/- seized from M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar and their confiscation, while the Respondents plea is that these goods were duplicate goods purchased by M/s. Shree Ganesh from M/s. Shivam Sales Corporation and the same were bearing batch no. KK and UU, which had never been used by the Respondent during the period April 2000 to March 2003, this plea of the Respondent has not been refuted by the Department. 7.1.1	 In fact if the Gutkha, Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner bearing brand name Shimla seized from the premises of M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar were duplicate goods originating from M/s. Shivam Sales Corporation and if the Respondents contention as recorded in para 36 (I) (vi) of the impugned order that the Department had verified the fact of manufacture of Shimla brand Gutkha and Pan Masala by M/s. Shivam Sales Corporation, by un-authorised use of the Respondents brand name, is correct, the purchase of demand drafts payable to M/s. Flex by M/s. Manoj Provision Stores and M/s. S.B.Traders, may be on the instructions of M/s. Shivam Sales Corporation, given through M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar. 7.2	In view of the above discussion, the proceedings for duty demand in respect of goods valued at Rs. 8,253/- seized from M/s. Shree Ganesh Sugandhi Bhandar and for confiscation of the goods have been correctly dropped by the commissioner. 8.	 The other component of duty demand is Rs. 13,50,400/- which is based on the allegation that while under invoices dt.12.06.01, 20.08.01, 20.08.01 and 09.09.01 of M/s. Flex, the Respondent received 13500 outer pouches for Shimla Mouth Freshner, 16000 outer pouches for 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala, 80000 outer pouches fopr Shimla Gutkha and 32000 outer pouches for Shimla Mouth Freshner respectively, at the time of officers visit to the Respondents factory on 07.01.02, there was no stock of the above pouches and the records of the Respondent for period from Sept.01 to Dec.01 showed that during Sept.01 to Dec.01 period, only 21800 outer pouches of Shimla Gutkha had been used for manufacture and there was no production of 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala during Sept.01 to Dec.01 period. On this basis it has been alleged in para 34 of the Show Cause Notice that 58200 outer pouches of Shimla Gutkha and 16000 outer pouches of 

2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala, have been used in the manufacture of Shimla Gutkha and Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala which had been cleared clandestinely without payment of duty and duty involved on these clearances is Rs.13,50,400/-. 8.1 The Respondent Companys contention is that they had received 13,500/- outer pouches for Re.1/- MRP Mouth Freshner in June 2001, 48000 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha of MRP Re. 1/-, 20,000 outer pouches for Shimla Pan Masala, MRP Re. 1/- and 20,000 outer pouches for Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala, in Aug.01 and 40,000 outer pouches for Shimla Mouth Freshner in Sept.01 and that all these outer pouches have been used in the packing of the retail pouches of Mouth Freshner, Shimla Gutkha, Shimla Pan Masala and Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala manufactured by them, which had been cleared on payment of duty and whose production and clearance are duly accounted for in the accounts maintained by the Respondent. 8.2 The basis of duty demand of Rs. 13,50,400/- as explained in Para 34 of the Show Cause Notice is that out of 80,000 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha and 16000 outer pouches of Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala, received by the Respondent under invoices dt. 20.08.01, only 21,800 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha had been used during Sept.01 to Dec.01 period as per records of the Respondent and as per the records, there was no production of 2-in-1 Pan Masala during Sept.01 to Dec.01, while at the same time there was no stock of these outer pouches at the time of officers visit to factory on 07.01.02. Thus the allegation in Show Cause Notice is failure of the Respondent to account for 58,200 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha and 16,000 outer pouches for 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala which had been received by them. In the Show Cause Notice there is no allegation that there was no production of Shimla Mouth Freshner during Sept.01 to Dec.01 period. However, in the Annexure to the Show Cause Notice, duty demand of Rs. 72,800/- has also been made on the basis of Respondents failure to account for 45,500 (32000+ 13,500) outer pouches for Shimla Mouth Freshner received by them. The duty demand of Rs. 72,800/- based on the Respondents alleged failure to account for 45,500 outer pouches for Mouth Freshner is not sustainable, as there is no such allegation in the Show Cause Notice. 8.3 As regards 58,200 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha and 16,000 of outer pouches for 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala received under invoice dt. 20.08.01, duty demand based on their alleged use in manufacture of Shimla Gutkha and Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala cleared clandestinely, is Rs. 12,77,600/-. The Commissioner in the impugned order has not gone into the question as to whether the allegation of Respondents failure to account for these outer pouches for use in the manufacture of Shimla Gutkha and Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala cleared on payment of duty, is correct or not. The Commissioner has dropped the duty demand only on the ground that merely on the basis of alleged receipt of outer pouches for packing retail pouches of Gutkha, Pan Masala & Mouth Freshner without any other evidence regarding procurement of other raw-materials like plastic lamination for retail pouches, Supari, Kattha, Tobacco etc. the duty demand is not sustainable. Honble Member (Judicial) also has upheld the dropping of this demand by endorsing the reasoning of the Commissioner, while in order recorded by Member (Technical), this point has not been dealt with, though he has ordered for allowing of departments appeal or in other words, confirming the entire duty demand, as made in the Show Cause Notice. 8.4 Outer pouches are used for packing of 40, 50 or 100 retail pouches of Gutkha, Pan Masala and Mouth Freshner and are one of the principal raw-materials. In my view, on the basis of concrete evidence of un-accounted receipt of any one of the principal raw-materials like Supari, Kattha, tobacco, plastic laminate or outer pouches by a Gutkha and Pan Masala manufacturer or on the basis of failure of the manufactures to account of the raw-materials which, admittedly, had been received, a presumption of fact, can be made under section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act that the un-accounted raw-material had been used in the un-accounted manufacture of excisable goods cleared clandestinely without payment of duty, which would shift the burden of proof to the Assessee and unless the assessee produces evidence to prove that there was no un-accounted receipt of raw-material or there was no un-accounted consumption of the raw-material which, admittedly, had been received, the duty demand on this basis can be confirmed by preponderance of probability. But for making such a presumption of fact under Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, which would shift the burden of proof to the assessee, there must be cogent and concrete evidence of the fact of un-accounted receipt of any one or more of the principal raw-materials or evidence of un-accounted consumption of the principal raw-materials which admittedly had been received. However, in this 

case, while the receipt of 80,000 outer pouches of Shimla Gutkha and 16,000 outer pouches of 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala in Aug.01 is not disputed and is accounted, merely on the basis that during Sept.01 to Dec.01 only 21,800 outer pouches of Shimla Gutkha had been used and no production of Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala had been recorded, it can not be presumed that the balance quantity of 58200 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha and 16000 outer pouches of Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala had been used for un-accounted manufacture of finished product cleared clandestinely, as looking to the number of machines  which is sixty in the Respondents factory, 52,800 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha and 16000 outer pouches for 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala could have been used in the month of August 2001 itself. No inquiry has been made regarding use of these outer pouches in August 2001. In my view, therefore, merely on the basis of the fact that there was no production of Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala during Sept.01 to Dec.01 and during this period only 21,800 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha had been used, it cannot be presumed that 52,800 outer pouches for Shimla Gutkha and 16000 outer pouches for 2-in-1 Shimla Pan Masala had been used in the manufacture of un-accounted Shimla Gutkha and Shimla 2-in-1 Pan Masala, which had been cleared clandestinely without payment of duty, as their consumption for accounted production during August 2001 has not been ruled out. 8.5 In view of the above discussion, the duty demand of Rs. 13,50,400/- is also without any basis and has been correctly dropped. 9 In view of the above discussions, I hold that the evidence on record is not sufficient to uphold the duty demand and the same has been correctly dropped by the Commissioner. I accordingly agree with the decision of Honble Member (Judicial). [ORDER PRONOUNCED ON 04.09.2013]

 		 (Rakesh Kumar) 

Member (Technical) 

S.Kaur 1