Messaging app Telegram has joined forces with the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) to prevent the propagation of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) on its platform. This comes after the platform’s repeated refusal to join any child protection schemes.

The membership grants Telegram access to IWF’s datasets and tools to identify CSAM on the platform. The app will use IWF’s “hashes” to identify CSAM. Hashing is a technique where CSAM content is assigned digital fingerprints and stored in a database which can then be used to compare and detect similar content uploaded on the platform. The IWF will block ‘non-photographic’ CSAM, including AI-generated content and links to hosting webpages. Further, the organisation will help detect and block accounts promoting and profiting from child sexual abuse content.

According to an investigation by Boom, researchers found that Instagram posts containing child sexual abuse material often link to Telegram channels that host more such content violating child safety regulations. The organization also discovered sellers offering child sexual abuse videos for as low as Rs 40 on Telegram. Typically, creators generated such content by sexualizing, cropping, and manipulating images and videos of children available on the internet, the report mentioned .

In October 2023, India’s Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) issued notices to social media intermediaries, including Telegram, to remove child sexual abuse material from their platforms. Responding to this, the app stated that it maintained a “zero-tolerance policy” towards any unlawful activities and took an average response time of 10-12 hours to remove such content. Additionally, as per its ‘Stop Child Abuse’ channel, Telegram reportedly blocked up to 11,306 groups and channels promoting such content till December 5, 2024.

Earlier in 2019, South Korean authorities also discovered an online sex ring being run on the platform in which over 70 women (including minors) were being blackmailed into filming sexual content which was later sold on Telegram chat rooms.

This new collaboration comes after the arrest of Telegram CEO Pavel Durov at a French airport in August 2024 on accusations of permitting money laundering, drug trafficking, and other illegal activities on the platform. The Paris Judiciary Tribunal later issued a press release detailing several charges against Durov, including possession of pornographic images of minors.

The partnership with IWF marks a significant shift for the platform which has previously shunned all outreach attempts by child safety advocacy groups like the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) and the Canadian Centre for Child Protection, even refusing to respond to reports of any illegal activities reported by users, NBC News reported .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event