SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Art of self sabotage
DATE: 2018-01-05
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7o8y0t/art_of_self_sabotage/

--- POST TEXT ---

Though it may sound unpopular and politically incorrect, but China becoming superpower and leading the world is good.

Basically Indian government and society has self sabotaged itself.

There will be rising seas but we will be busy fighting over religion, caste, language, clothes and food habits. 

When your most pressing concerns are boys and girls meeting or hugging and cows and bedrooms.

What's the so called educated concern are?
H1B instead of stellar employment generation in India for Indian needs.

Payment banks were meant to serve unbanked in affordable way, but became fodder for payment startups.

Instead, banks have made citizens slaves.
Poor and old are being punished for minimum balance as way to bolster bank profitability.

I have read that leaks in PDS even helped in women empowerment in rural TN.
Aadhaar is not about stopping corruption but developing a totalitarian system.
We are now a surveillance society.
Both neoliberal capitalist corporatocracy and big state will spy on you.
Despite Modi trying to be like subtle totalitarian of Singapore, he may end up like Turkey's dictator Recep.

India will also miss the bus on renewable power, semiconductor components, Fourth industrial revolution manufacturing.

Whatever direction economy and society takes globally, either post capitalism with basic income, land value tax, circular economy with cooperatives or surveillance society with corporatocracy fascism, India has lost chance to improve people's lives.

India has lost it with incompetence.

Our desire is to escape the shithole instead of sabotaging and subverting the IAS lobby and other bureacracies (police,legal,tax).

They are not steel frameworks but cages to hold India back.

GST, instead of reform just another way for bureacratic rule.

Electoral politics is lost case as society itself is regressive and want religion to be supreme.

All reforms will fail. 

Your only chance is to subvert and sabotage bureacracies, spread fake news against religious,caste, language, region zealots.
Use products and produce or pirate to reduce and destroy profitability of corporates.
Destroy petroleum infrastructure to improve traffic conditions. Avoid taxes to weaken the state. Develop survivalist pods and develop resilience mentality. 

Use technology and automation to leverage ones position.