1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide present suit under S. 134 & 135 of Trademarks Act, 1999, Sec. 55 of the Copyright
 Act, 1957 for permanent injunction restraining
 infringement, passing off, delivery up and rendition of
 accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the defendant. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially, the
 present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before the
 Court of Ld. Additional District Judge, Patiala House
 Courts, New Delhi. During the course of trial, the case was
 received by this Court by way of transfer, on 22-7-2022, in
 view of Order No.17016-17031/Judl./NDD/ PHC/2022
 dated 05-7-2022 of the then Ld. Principal District &
 Sessions Judge, New Delhi District, PHC and
 consequent upon the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case titled as ' Vishal Pipes Limited v. Bhavya
 Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD No.1/2022 & CM APPLs No.
 12-14/2022 dated 03-6-2022. 3. It may also be noted that initially, the suit was filed
 against the defendant, who was arrayed as 'Ashok Kumar'
 on the basis of 'John Doe' principle as applicable in India.
 Subsequent to the execution of local commission, an
 application u/s 151 CPC along with amended memo of
 parties seeking substitution of John Doe (Ashok Kumar)/
 defendant was moved on behalf of the plaintiff, which was
 allowed and consequently, Ashok Kumar CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 2 of 28 -3- (John Doe) / defendant was deleted and Shri Bhagat was
 substituted and impleaded as defendant. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 4. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, is that the
 plaintiff is an American company having its principal
 office at Maryland, USA and got instituted the present suit
 through constituted attorney namely Ms. Meena Bansal,
 who is duly authorized by the plaintiff company to
 institute, sign, verify and pursue the present suit. It is
 claimed that the plaintiff is engaged in the business of
 manufacturing, distribution and sale of large variety of
 goods including casual apparel, sports apparel, footwear,
 and other allied / related products (hereinafter referred to
 as "goods and business"). It is further claimed that the
 plaintiff has been using the trademark/ label "UNDER

 ARMOUR ", " since 1996 (hereinafter referred
 to as the said "trademark/ label"). 5. Further, the plaintiff has given detailed history of the
 plaintiff company in Para no.4 of the plaint, wherein it is
 mentioned, inter alia, that UNDER ARMOUR was
 founded in 1996 by Kevin Plank, a then 23- year-old
 former special teams Captain of the University of
 Maryland Football Team. UNDER ARMOUR received
 its first big break in 1999 when Warner Brothers
 contacted UNDER ARMOUR to outfit two of its feature
 films, Oliver Stone's Any Given Sunday and The
 Replacements. In Any Given Sunday, Willie Beamen CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 3 of 28 -4- (played by Jamie Foxx) wears an UNDER ARMOUR
 jockstrap. Leveraging the release of Any Given Sunday,
 Plank purchased an ad in ESPN The Magazine. The
 ad generated close to $750,000 in sales, and three years
 after starting the company, Plank finally put himself on the
 payroll. In late 2007, UNDER ARMOUR opened its first
 full-line full-price retail location at the Westfield
 Annapolis mall in Annaoolis Marvland and by 2003, it had
 opened several speciality stores and factory outlet
 locations in Canada, China and 39 states and First Brand
 House in Baltimore. 6. It is further the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff has
 been honestly & bonafide, continuously, commercially,
 openly and to the exclusion of others, uninterruptedly
 and in the course of trade and as proprietor thereof, using
 its said trademark in relation to its said goods and
 business and is carrying on its business thereunder and
 has built up a worldwide and globally valuable trade,
 goodwill and reputation thereunder and has acquired
 proprietary rights therein. The plaintiff has further
 claimed that besides having worldwide registration, the
 said trademark is also registered in India in its favour
 under various classes under the provision of trademarks
 Act and same are stated to be valid and subsisting as on
 date in favour of the plaintiff and details thereof have
 been given in Para no.7 of the plaint. Hence, it has
 claimed itself to be owner and proprietor of the
 said trademarks/ labels. 7. Further, the plaintiff has also claimed that the art work
 involved in the plaintiff's said trademark are original artistic
 works within the meaning of Indian Copyright Act, 1957 and the plaintiff is the owner and proprietor thereof. Further,
 the plaintiff has been dealing with its art works/ copyright in
 the course of the trade in relation to its said goods and
 business, inter alia, within the meaning of S. 14 of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. 8. It is further claimed that the plaintiff has also been
 innovative in creating punch lines like "I WILL" which
 has been converted in campaigns like. 9. It is further the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff has
 also got domain name registered in its favour viz.
 www.underarmour.com [hereinafter referred to as the said
 domain name / website] and the plaintiff's goods have been
 available in India through its website
 www.underarmour.co./en-in as plaintiff ships its products
 in India. Thus, it is claimed that the plaintiff operates
 around the globe and directly or indirectly employs nearly
 one million people through suppliers, shippers, retailers,
 and other services providers and at the end of fiscal year
 2017, the plaintiff's revenue reached up to 4977 million
 dollars. 10. Further, it is the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff
 maintains highest standard of quality in relation to its
 goods and business under the said trademark/ label.
 Further, the plaintiff invests heavily in R & D and its CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 5 of 28 -6- products are known for its highest standards of quality,
 safety, innovation and reliability and there is an ever
 increasing demand therefore. Further, the plaintiff's said
 trademark/label have all become distinctive, associated and
 have acquired secondary significance with the plaintiff and
 plaintiff's said goods and business. The purchasing public,
 the trade and industry at large worldwide and in India,
 identify and distinguish the plaintiff's said goods under the
 said trademark/label with the plaintiff and from the
 plaintiff's source and origin alone and regard them as a
 high quality products exclusively as that of the plaintiff. 11. It is further claimed that the plaintiff has regularly and
 continuously been promoting its said distinctive trademark
 through extensive advertisements, publicity promotion and
 market research and the plaintiff has been spending
 enormous amount of money, efforts, labour and skill
 thereon. The plaintiff has been doing so, through various
 means and modes, including through visual and print
 media, trade literature and magazines, including on the
 internet, television advertisement etc., world wide,
 including in India. In view thereof, the said trademarks/
 labels enjoys tremendous goodwill and reputation
 worldwide, including in India. It is further claimed that the
 plaintiff's said trademark/ label are well known trademarks
 within the meaning of Section 2 (1) (zg) of The
 Trademarks Act, 1999. 12. It is further the case of the plaintiff that on account of
 its good quality and standards of manufacturing and CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 6 of 28 -7- untiring efforts in advertising and marketing, the products
 of the plaintiff under the said trademarks/labels have
 acquired enviable reputation and goodwill not only in
 India but across the globe. Further, the plaintiff spend huge
 amount of money in advertising and promotion of its
 products under the said trademarks in India and around the
 world, due to which the products of the plaintiff under the
 said trademarks enjoy huge goodwill and reputation in
 business community and public in general in India
 and across the world. The plaintiff Company has
 got huge turnover against sale of its products worldwide.
 Hence, it is claimed that in view of the plaintiff's
 proprietary rights, both under statutory and common law in
 its said trademark, its goodwill & reputation, and its
 copyrights, the plaintiff has the exclusive right to the use
 thereof and nobody can be permitted to use the same or
 any other deceptively similar trademark/label
 in any manner whatsoever in relation to any
 specification of goods without the leave and license of
 the plaintiff. 13. The plaintiff company has alleged that the defendant is
 engaged in the business of manufacturing, marketing, sale,
 use and trading of apparels, clothing, ready made
 garments, shoes, footwear, boot sports-wear, sports related
 accessories, and other allied/ related products, as also Tags,
 labels, cut-outs, boards, accessories, machinery and allied
 and cognate items (hereinafter referred to as "the
 impugned goods and business"). It is further alleged that CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 7 of 28 -8- the defendant has adopted and started using the trademark/

 label UNDER ARMOUR and punchline/
 campaign "I WILL" (hereinafter referred to as " impugned
 trademark/ label") in relation to his impugned goods and
 business. 14. It is further alleged that in last week of January, 2019, the
 plaintiff came across impugned goods and business of the
 defendant bearing impugned trademark/label in markets of
 New Delhi area and being aggrieved thereby, the plaintiff
 caused an inquiry in the market, which revealed that the
 defendant had just about in the month of January, 2019
 adopted and started using the impugned trademark/ label in
 relation to his impugned goods. 15. Further, it is alleged that the defendant has dishonestly and
 malafidely adopted impugned trademarks/label UNDER

 ARMOUR and punchline/ campaign "I
 WILL" which are visually, structurally identical and/or
 deceptively and confusingly similar to the registered
 trademarks/ label of plaintiff UNDER ARMOUR

 and punchline/ campaign "I WILL", thereby
 causing confusion and deception amongst the unwary
 purchasing public and traders by making them believe that
 the origin of those goods is the plaintiff company. It is also
 the case of the plaintiff that in fact, the defendant is
 indulging in counterfeiting the impugned goods, which is CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 8 of 28 -9- in complete violation of plaintiff's statutory and common
 law right in the said trademark/trade name. It has been
 averred that by doing so, the defendant is not only
 damaging the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff
 company by passing off his substandard products as that of
 the plaintiff company but is also causing financial loss to
 the plaintiff company by reaping unfair advantage of the
 repute and distinctive character of the trademark of the
 plaintiff company. 16. On these grounds, the plaintiff has filed the present suit
 against the defendant praying therein, inter alia, that decree
 of permanent injunction may be passed restraining the
 defendant and all acting for and on his behalf from using the
 impugned trademarks/ label UNDER ARMOUR

 and punchline/ campaign "I WILL or any other
 wordmarks/ trademarks/ labels which may be identical with
 and/ or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's said trademark/

 label UNDER ARMOUR and punchline/
 campaign "I WILL in relation to similar goods, thereby
 infringing plaintiff's registered trademark, copyright and
 passing off his products as that of the plaintiff. 17. The suit was accompanied with applications - one under
 Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC and another under Order
 XXVI Rule 9 CPC seeking ex parte ad interim injunction
 and ex parte order for appointment of local commissioner to
 visit and search the premises of the defendant. After hearing CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 9 of 28 -10- counsel of the plaintiff, the said applications were allowed,
 vide common order dated 06-03-2019 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of this Court, thereby granting an ex parte
 ad interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff and against
 the defendant and Local Commissioner was also appointed
 to visit and search the premises of the defendant with
 certain conditions as mentioned therein. 18. Summons were issued to the defendant in terms of relevant
 orders. The defendant put his appearance through counsel
 Sh. Animesh Rastogi, Advocate on 26-4-2019. On request,
 the defendant was directed to file written statement within a
 week failing which right to file the same shall be deemed to
 be closed. Despite such specific direction, the defendant
 failed to file written statement and thus, the defence of the
 defendant was struck off and since, none had appeared on
 behalf of defendant despite wait and repeated calls,
 therefore, he was also proceeded against ex parte, vide order
 dated 30-07-2019, passed by Ld. Predecessor of this Court. 19. At this juncture, it may be noted that the present case was
 received by this Court on 22-7-2022, as already noted
 above in Para no.2, and an application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC was moved on behalf of the
 plaintiff seeking amendment of the suit, thereby enhancing
 specified value to be above Rs.3 lacs, so as to bring the
 present suit within the ambit of the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 , in view of the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in case of Vishal Pipes Limited (supra), which was
 allowed vide order dated 30-11-2022 passed by Ld. CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 10 of 28 -11- Predecessor of this Court and the defendant was directed to
 file written statement to the amended plaint within 30 days
 from the date of said order. However, the defendant failed
 to file any written statement despite grant of sufficient time
 and opportunities. 20. In view of above, the position as emerges on record is that
 defendant chose not to file written statement either to the
 original plaint or to the amended plaint. 21. In support of its case, the plaintiff company has examined
 only one witness i.e. its AR namely Mrs. Meena Bansal as
 PW1. She led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit
 [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint
 and relied on the following documents:- 22. On statement of AR of plaintiff, the plaintiff evidence was
 closed vide order dated 16-10-2023, passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of this Court. However, on 20-1-2024, an
 application u/s 151 CPC was moved by plaintiff seeking
 permission to lead additional evidence on the ground that
 the plaintiff had filed the present suit against the
 defendant, who was arrayed as 'Ashok Kumar' on the
 basis of 'John Doe' principle as applicable in India as they
 were not aware about the exact constitution of the
 defendant at the time of filing the suit, however, after
 execution of the local commission, they came to know
 about the particulars of the defendant and hence, got memo
 of parties amended with permission of the Court and filed
 amended memo of parties, and also that in support of his
 case, the plaintiff had already examined PW-1 Mrs. Meena CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 12 of 28 -13- Bansal by way of affidavit, however, in her affidavit in
 evidence, inadvertently the defendant was still shown as
 "Ashok Kumar" instead of defendant, namely Shri Bhagat.
 The aforesaid application was allowed, vide order dated
 20-1-2024 and the plaintiff was permitted to lead
 additional evidence. In terms of said order, the plaintiff led
 additional evidence of PW-1 by way of affidavit
 (Ex.PW1/B). 23. After the closure of PE on 29-04-2024, ex parte final
 arguments were heard. 24. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to give
 up reliefs as prayed in Prayer Clause Nos. 35(b) and 35(d)
 of the amended plaint regarding restraining the defendant
 from disposing off or dealing with his assets and rendition
 of accounts respectively, Accordingly, the plaintiff was
 permitted to give up the said reliefs as prayed in Prayer
 Clause Nos. 35(b) and 35(d) of the amended plaint, vide
 orders dated 21-05-2024 and 08-01-2024 respectively. In
 view thereof, the suit survives only with respect to the
 reliefs of permanent injunction and delivery up. 25. I have already heard Ld. counsel for the plaintiff. I have
 also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF 26. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that the entire CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 13 of 28 -14- testimony of PW-1 has remained unchallenged and
 unrebutted from the side of defendant and therefore, the
 plaintiff company is entitled to the decree, as prayed for. In
 support of his submission, Counsel relied upon the
 documents [Ex.PW1/1 to Ex.PW1/9]. 27. Further, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the
 trademarks/ labels UNDER ARMOUR are well known
 trademarks of the plaintiff and are registered under various
 classes of the Trade Mark Rules 2002, which are valid and
 subsisting in favour of the plaintiff company till date.
 Further, the art works involved in the trademark/label is
 original artistic work and the plaintiff holds copyright
 therein. Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff spends
 huge amount of money in advertising and promotion of its
 products and said marks enjoy a huge goodwill and
 reputation in business community and public in general in
 India. Further, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff relied upon the
 report of Local Commissioner and submitted that Ld.
 Local Commissioner, while executing the commission in
 terms of relevant order passed by this Court, had found
 infringed goods bearing falsified impugned
 trademark/label from the premises of the defendant in his
 presence, which establishes that the defendant was
 involved in the illegal activities. It is further argued by
 Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that Local Commissioner's
 Report can be read in evidence in terms of Order XXVI
 Rule 10(2) CPC and for this purpose, he also relied upon
 the judgment of our own Hon'ble High Court in case CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 14 of 28 -15- titled as "M L Brother LLP v. Mahesh Kumar Bhrualal
 Tanna" [CS (COMM) 126/2022, decided on 12th May,
 2022]. 28. Further, he submitted that the use of impugned
 trademark/label UNDER ARMOUR with punch line
 'I WILL' as adopted by the defendant, is identical and/ or
 confusingly or deceptively similar to the registered
 trademarks/labels of the plaintiff i.e. UNDER ARMOUR
 with punch line 'I WILL' and thus, same amounts to not
 only committing fraud upon the plaintiff company but
 also upon the unwary general public, due to which the
 plaintiff company suffers huge monetary loss and its
 goodwill and reputation are also at stake and therefore,
 he urged that the suit may be decreed in favour of
 plaintiff and against the defendant, thereby
 restraining the defendant and all others acting for and on
 his behalf from using the said impugned
 trademark/ label. ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION: 29. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of the
 plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant material
 available on records. JURISDICTION 30. Firstly, as regards jurisdiction of this Court, it is stated that
 the defendant has been making clandestine and
 surreptitious sales, offering for sale, manufacturing,
 marketing, and is also supplying, purveying, displaying, CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 15 of 28 -16- and soliciting, has intention to sell/ solicit, his impugned
 goods and business under the impugned trademark/ label
 in New Delhi area viz. Connaught Place, Gole Market,
 Naraina, Sarojini Nagar and adjoining areas, which fall
 within the jurisdiction of this Court. It is further contended
 that the plaintiff's proprietary rights are being prejudicially
 affected or are likely to be so affected in New Delhi due to
 the defendant' impugned activities as he has all the
 intention to use/ sell/ solicit the impugned/ counterfeit
 goods under the impugned trademark/ label in the markets
 of New Delhi. Therefore, it is stated that whole or part
 cause of action has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction
 of this Court within the meaning of S. 20 CPC and thus,
 this Court has territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the
 present suit. 31. Further, it is stated that the plaintiff has also been carrying
 on its said goods and business under its said trademarks in
 New Delhi through its website www.underarmour.com.
 Apart from same, the said goods of the plaintiff under the
 said trademark/ label are also available through online
 marketplace like Amazon, Flipkart, etc., which are
 interactive in nature and goods can be sold, purchased and
 delivered within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court.
 Thus, it is contended that this Court further has also
 territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try the present suit
 within the meaning of S. 134 (2) of the Trademarks Act,
 1999 and also under S. 62(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957. 32. The PW1 has deposed in her affidavit in evidence on the
 identical lines of the averments made in the plaint, inter
 alia that the plaintiff goods have been available in India
 through its website www.underarmour.co.zen-in as
 plaintiff ships its products in India. Besides, the said goods
 of the plaintiff under the said trademark/label are also
 available through online marketplace like Amazon,
 Flipkart etc., which are interactive in nature and goods can
 be sold, purchased, delivered, within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. PW-1 has also proved
 documents/ screenshots, which show that goods of the
 plaintiff are available on e-market places like Amazon and
 Flipkart, which are stated to be interactive in nature, as
 Ex.PW1/8 (Colly.). 33. The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted as the defendant has neither filed written
 statement nor has chosen to cross-examine PW1. 34. Therefore, in view of the law as laid down by Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court in cases titled as " Banyan Holding (P)
 Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy & Anr. " reported as 2009
 SCC OnLine Del 3780; " World Wrestling Entertainment,
 Inc. v. Reshma Collection & Ors. " reported as 2014 (60)
 PTC 452 (Del.) (DB); and "Burger King v. Tekchand",
 reported as 2018 (76) PTC 90 (Del.), the Court is of the
 considered opinion that the plaintiff has been able to
 satisfy the test of purposeful availment of the impugned
 goods under the impugned trademark as well as goods
 under the registered trademark of the plaintiff CS (Comm.) No. : 395/2019 Page 17 of 28 -18- within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, as stipulated
 in the said judgments delivered by Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court. 35. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of the
 facts and circumstances of the case and in view of the
 above cited judgments and keeping in view the fact that
 evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered opinion that
 at least part of cause of action has arisen within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court and therefore, this
 Court has territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the
 suit. PERMANENT INJUNCTION: 36. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trademarks, to quote:- 37. It is now well settled law, as also laid down by our own
 Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace &
 Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC
 63 (Del) that an infringement of trademarks is to be seen
 from the perspective of a layman, to quote:- Specific averment ought to be made that there are no
 disclaimers imposed on the mark and the mark stands
 renewed. Any licenses and assignments ought to be
 pleaded. (iii) xxxx (iv) In the case of (ii), the party ought to file the LPC
 prior to the commencement of the trial, if any aspect
 of the trademarks registration is being disputed by the
 opposite side" DAMAGES: RELIEF: 51. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 52. File be consigned to Record Room, after due compliance.