Update, 24 January: A Facebook spokesperson told Medianama, “Facebook is respectful of the local laws and we regularly respond to government requests to restrict content in accordance with the law. Facebook is committed to fighting misinformation on the platform. One of the many steps that we have taken to reduce the spread of false news is working with independent, third-party fact-checkers to review and rate the accuracy of content. Last year in September, we expanded fact-checking for photos and videos to all of our 27 partners (For more info, please refer: https://www.facebook.com/help/publisher/182222309230722 ) in 17 countries around the world.”

Update, 23 January: A YouTube spokesperson told MediaNama, “We set and publicly share information about our Community Guidelines and we consistently and impartially enforce those guidelines to protect our users’ freedom of speech while providing clear guidance on content that is not allowed on the platform. We’ve developed robust Community Guidelines , and enforce these policies effectively. We’ve also taken a number of steps to limit the spread of misinformation on our platform.”

Earlier, 22 January: The Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) has sent notices to Google and Facebook to take down ‘“false and malicious” videos and misinformation about the food safety and quality in India’, reports the Economic Times .

The Ministry, the report says, is concerned with “fake information” being responsible for destroying people’s faith in Indian food safety organisations, after FSSAI CEO Pawan Kumar Agarwal approached the IT Ministry.

We have reached out to both companies and will update this when we hear from them.

Facebook itself has been taking measures to “fight” fake news and information:

In November, WhatsApp started funding research from 11 countries including India, into fake news on the heels of receiving global backlash for being a catalyst towards the spread of fake news and misinformation. In August, WhatsApp partnered with the Digital Empowerment Foundation to hold workshops on fake news across the country.

Note that the government is looking to amend the IT Rules governing Section 79 , which cover intermediary liability, of the Information Technology Act. The section provides safe harbor to platforms including all payments providers, e-commerce marketplaces, ISPs, content or messaging services. Proposed amendments to the IT Rules would mean that intermediaries may be held more liable for the actions/behavior of their users.

Read more here , here and here .

Also read: Intermediary Liability: Amul sends legal notice to Google and Godaddy over fake campaigns

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event