% 20.08.2025 1. Applicant herein seeks regular bail in case FIR No. 318/2024, dated
 17.04.2024, for alleged offences under Sections 323 / 376 / 506 of the IPC
 registered at Police Station Shahbad Dairy, Delhi. 2. Briefly stated, per FIR, the case set up by the prosecution is that
 prosecutrix/ complainant met accused through Facebook about 4 years ago
 and became friends. It is stated that the accused, in the month December
 2023, expressed his love and thereafter developed physical relations with
 her without her consent. It is claimed that, on 03.04.2024, the accused again
 called her to the same hotel, made physical relations without consent and,
 took nude photos and videos of her. On 03.04.2024, he blackmailed and
 threatened the complainant at the same Hotel and forced her to take off
 clothes at gun point. It is also claimed that the accused, subsequently, also

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/08/2025 at 22:33:34
 blackmailed the complainant and her family by threatening to leak the nude
 photos if the complainant does not marry him. 3. In the aforesaid backdrop, I have heard the rival contentions and
 perused the case file. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant would argue on lines of grounds
 pleaded in the petition inter alia urging as below:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/08/2025 at 22:33:34
 examination at the relevant stage, which weakens the prosecution case. 5. Opposing the above submissions, the learned APP for the State argues
 that the learned trial court has rightly dismissed the petitioner bail
 application vide order dated 26.07.2024 stating therein that the accused has
 threatened the prosecutrix and her family members. Therefore, this court
 ought to dismiss the bail application too. 5.1. The applicant is not entitled to any relief at this stage, as there remains
 a genuine risk of him tampering the evidences and also influencing the
 witnesses of the case. 5.2 The offences alleged by the complainant are grave and serious in nature
 and the applicant is also a flight risk and can abscond, if granted bail.
 Moreover, there exists a genuine risk. 6. Having heard, I am of the view that it is a fit case for bail. Let us see
 how. 7. It transpires that the prosecutrix and the petitioner met through
 Facebook. Subsequently, they were in a consensual relationship. 8. The petitioner has been in judicial custody since 17.04.2024,
 amounting to more than 16 months, and further detention would result in
 pre-trial punishment. The allegations in the FIR as per the prosecutrix's
 statement and material on record indicate a consensual relationship over four
 years. 9. The petitioner is willing to marry the prosecutrix, and with the
 investigation substantially complete and no recovery pending, there is no
 necessity for custodial interrogation. In light of these factors, and
 considering the principle that bail is the rule and jail an exception, the case
 merits grant of bail. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/08/2025 at 22:33:34 10. The applicant is a 26-year-old unmarried man with a clean record,
 who otherwise living peacefully and harmoniously with his family members,
 with no criminal antecedents, and thus not a flight risk. Further continued
 incarceration would thus serve no useful purpose, especially, when the trial
 is not likely to conclude in the near future. 11. As an upshot and taking a wholesome view of the matter, the
 applicant is directed to be released on bail on his furnishing personal bond
 with solvent surety of like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court/Duty
 Judge concerned as the case may be, subject to the other usual conditions to
 be imposed by the learned Trial Court/Duty Court. 12. Any observation made herein above is only for the purpose of
 disposing of the instant bail application and not to be construed, in any
 manner, as any expression on the merits of the pending case and the trial
 shall proceed without being influenced either way by the same. 13. Accordingly, the bail application stands disposed of. ARUN MONGA, J
 AUGUST 20, 2025/SV/MG

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/08/2025 at 22:33:34