SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: In crisis with an apparently 'spiritual' cult, seeking help.
DATE: 2021-10-27
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/qgn7k1/in_crisis_with_an_apparently_spiritual_cult/

--- POST TEXT ---

A lot of you will laugh at this post and accuse me of writing shit as well but please, if anyone dares to trust me, please do tell your opinion.

So I went to take 'Deeksha' with my parents to this spiritual place when I was in high-school. After the day of initiation, I started practicing meditation and I felt overall positive. My parents were also happy and felt calmer however few months into it, we couldn't keep up. Slowly our ability to sit through the meditation decreased and we stopped going to the ashram where we were supposed to go every weekend. This was the time of elections and on set of Modi wave. The people from the ashram were strongly promoting BJP. I was in favour of having BJP because the then government was bringing up scams every day but my family grew skeptical and so they decided to stop going to ashram at all however I grew bit more spiritual for some reason but because of my family restrictions, I could neither practice meditation nor go to ashram.

 When I started my post graduation, not a day passed when I did not have a nightmare. Every damn night, I would have some vivid dream. In my sleep I would be very aware that I am dreaming. I kept telling everyone that I am 'not really sleeping' but none of the people around me could understand. I went to do jobs and with time, this state of having nightmares continued. In addition, I get jerks in my body when I sleep. I also feel that some thing is snaking over me all the time. I went for job away from my home and so I took this opportunity to reach out to ashram. For last 4 years, I went to ashram every weekend, listened to sermons, practice 'sewa' etc. I had come to the stage where I thought I am ready to become a monk however all this while, I seriously could not sleep. Every night I would dream of a man and a woman chasing me. Sometimes I would see the 'guru' ( who is no longer physically alive) protecting me from those people. So anyway the monks in the ashram told me that due to my past karma, I am being troubled by negative entities and the more I meditate, the better I will get. 

There are so many people in ashram who see the guru in their dreams or even with naked eye and claim to have received help from him. For instance, we keep hearing stories when this guru helped out his follower in cracking exams, getting a job etc. The gist is that this person gives instruction to his followers in a spiritual way and when his followers obey him, their life gets better, problems get solved etc. Now just before COVID happened, this guru gave me an instruction in my dream. He told me to do something ( I can't tell but it is something benevolent, like doing a strong tapasya) however I was dealing with my personal life issues, 3 neurological disorders one of which is Chronic fatigue syndrome. If I walk a certain distance, I get extremely exhausted. Doctors have told me to take as much rest as I can. I prayed to him and politely declined to do what he asked. Not that I don't want to do it, I just can't. The consequence of saying No is that my dreams have become intense. I wake up with horrible nightmares. I just can't sleep. Due to lack of sleep, my head aches very badly. This had been going on almost 2 years. At the end I was so tired of resisting that I started doing that meditation he asked for, slowly few hours a day. The problem is that the dreams still don't stop. The day I do this task, I get beautiful dreams. I see plants, trees, I see myself getting healthier but due to health issues, when I get tired and cannot work, I barely get sound sleep. There is lot of bloodshed, war etc. in my dreams. I don't feel like I am sleeping. Sometimes this guru gives me threats that if I don't do what he said, he will bring my family to rags, My sibling will get an incurable disease, I will become so poor that I will have to steal even water to drink etc. Now I realize that all these nightmares from the beginning are his doings. This is his way of fear mongering and controlling the people who take deeksha from him. 

COVID has given me lot of time to reflect on who I have dedicated myself to. They are strongly pro-government and many of their followers have that anti-muslim, pro-hindutva attitude. During lockdowns, I realized that I have just blindly followed some tantric of sorts who is just in business of fooling people. There are many instances when I thought that perhaps I am crazy one. I am mentally imbalanced ( I have visited neurologist, therapists, psychiatrist btw and they usually talk about stress and exhaustion) but I have personally may people in their ashram who have similar experiences ( less intense of course). Their inhouse magazine has stories of people telling how their Guru appeared before them in meditation or sleep and guided them. So doubting self is of no use here

 If this goes on, I am planning on Suicide, and mentioning this guru and his ashram's name in my suicide letter such that no other innocent gets to this mental state. I am not suicidal as such. I love my life but I cannot endure anything more.

Waiting for your downvotes and comments, if any. Thank you for hearing my rant.