SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J 1. The Central Public Information Officer (hereinafter referred to
as CPIO) of the Intelligence Bureau has filed this petition impugning
order dated 21.04.2016, passed by the Central Information
Commission under the Right to Information Act, 2005 (hereinafter
referred to as the 'Act'). 2. The Central Information Commission (hereinafter referred to as
CIC), by the impugned order dated 21.04.2016, has held that the copy
of the report of the Intelligence Bureau (hereinafter referred to as IB),
concerning the respondent, is information pertaining to allegations of WP(C) 5521/2016 Page 1 of 17 corruption and human rights violation and is, thus, liable to be given
to the respondent. The Commission has directed the Intelligence
Bureau and the Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change
(hereinafter referred to as MoEF) to provide a certified copy of the IB
report relating to the respondent, as sought for by him by an
application dated 05.12.2015. 3. The directions have been issued by the CIC on arriving at the
following conclusion a) It is factually proved that appellant was put to
 extreme hardship by the corrupt political rulers and
 corrupt public servants In retaliation of his
 unstinted Implementation of rule of law. b) The gist of IB report as furnished by IB in response
 to the RTI request of appellant in this case shows
 that its disclosure could cause no harm to core
 activity of security or intelligence of IB. c) section 24 of RTI Act does not authorize the public
 authorities exempted under this section to block
 entire Information held by it or generated and given
 to other public authorities enbloc, but it exclusion
 from disclosure is limited to that which pertains to
 core functioning of 'security' and 'intelligence'
 aspect of exempted organization. d) The IB report sought by appellant is not the
 information excluded from purview of disclosure by RTI Act . e) The IB report is information as per Section 2(f) held
 by MoEF and also information pertaining to the
 allegation of corruption or human rights violation WP(C) 5521/2016 Page 2 of 17 as per Section 24 second proviso and hence certified
 copy of the same shall be given to the appellant. f) The public authorities exempted under S. 24 cannot
 use it to stonewall all RTI requests indiscriminately.
 The IB has a statutory duty to make all
 arrangements to provide the information other than
 that concerning 'security' and 'Intelligence' if it
 pertains to corruption or human rights violation, or
 useful to prevent corruption or human rights
 violation either under voluntary disclosure clauses
 or other provisions of RTI Act ." 4. The respondent on 05.12.2015 had filed an application seeking
information under the Act. The applicant sought the following
information:- 5. The CPIO, MoEF, by its response dated 07.01.2016, to the
above application, provided copies of all the correspondences and
notesheet other than the representations of the respondent. 6. On 18.01.2016, after receipt of the above documents, the
respondent requested for supply of the IB report. The request was
made on the ground that a mention had been made in the file
noting/correspondences of an IB report about the respondent. The
gist of the said report has been reproduced in the file noting. 7. Copy of the report was sought by the respondent contending
that the information contained in the IB report pertained only to the
respondent and was not about anyone else and further had no
connection with the national securities or relation with foreign
countries. 8. The CPIO, MoEF declined supply of copy of the IB report on
the ground that the same was exempted from disclosure in terms of Section 24 of the Act. 9. Consequent to the denial of supply of copy of the IB report, the
respondent filed an application under Section 24 of the Act with the
Central Information Commission. 10. The petitioner as well as the CPIO, MoEF opposed the
application, filed by the respondent under Section 24 of the Act, on
the ground that the information was exempted from disclosure as the WP(C) 5521/2016 Page 4 of 17 report was an intelligence report of the Intelligence Bureau, which is
one of the organizations mentioned in the Schedule of the Act and
exempted in terms of Section 24 of the Act. 11. The CPIO also relied on the judgment of the Coordinate Bench
dated 09.10.2013 in WP(C) 7453/2011 titled UNION OF INDIA & ORS.
VS. ADARSH SHARMA to contend that the exception carved out from
the exemption would be applicable in case the allegation of corruption
and the human right violation was with regard to the intelligence
Bureau. 12. The CIC allowed the application of the respondent under Section 24 of the Act and passed the impugned order dated
21.04.2016. 13. Aggrieved by the said decision , the petitioner i.e. the CPIO,
Intelligence Bureau has filed the present petition contending that the
directions issued by the CIC, are contrary to Section 8(1)(j) of the Act
and the impugned order is without jurisdiction in view of Second
Schedule of Section 24 of the Act, wherein, not only the Intelligence
Bureau has been exempted but also the information provided by the
Intelligence Bureau to the Government has been specifically
exempted. It is contended by the petitioner that the information
sought does not fall within the exception carved out by the proviso to Section 24 of the Act inasmuch as neither it pertains to any allegation
of corruption nor of human rights violation within the intelligence WP(C) 5521/2016 Page 5 of 17 bureau. It is contended that the issue raised by the respondent is an
ordinary service matter. 14. It is contended on behalf of the petitioner that the exception
carved out by the proviso to Section 24 , which, specifies "information
pertaining to the allegations of corruption and human rights
violations shall not be excluded under this sub-Section" would apply
only if the allegation of corruption or human rights violations were
within the Intelligence Bureau or pertaining to an Officer of the
Intelligence Bureau. It is contended that only in case the allegations
of corruption or human rights violation were relatable specifically to
the officers of the Intelligence Bureau would the exceptions carved
out by the proviso apply. It is further contended that the exception
would have no application in case the allegations of corruption or
human rights violation pertain to organization other than the
Intelligence Bureau, in respect of which the report was submitted. 15. It is further contended that no allegations were made with
regard to corruption or human rights violation by the officers of the
Intelligence Bureau and the allegations were with regard to the
Department where the respondent was serving. Since the IB report,
submitted by the petitioner, had been with regard to the organization
where the respondent was serving, the same did not come within the
purview of the exceptions carved out by the proviso to Section 24 of
the Act. 16. Reliance is placed by the learned counsel for the petitioner on
the decision in the case of ADARSH SHARMA (supra). Further,
reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of S. SUNDARAM PILLAI & ORS. VS. V.R. PATTABIRAMAN & ORS. : 1985
SCC 591 to contend that a proviso cannot be interpreted as a general
rule that has been provided for nor can it be interpreted in a manner
that would nullify the enactment or to take away in entirety a right
that has been conferred. Further, that a Court has no power to add or
subtract even a single interpretation to legislation. Reference is also
drawn to a judgment of the Supreme Court in ROHITASH KUMAR VS.
OM PRAKASH SHARMA : (2013) 11 SCC 451. 17. The respondent, in his response, has contended that the
respondent, who is an officer belonging to 2002 batch of Indian
Forrest Service, was earlier allocated Haryana Cadre, which was
subsequently changed to Uttrakhand in August 2015, on account of
extreme hardships. It is contended that the gist of the Intelligence
Bureau report, copy of which had been sought by the respondent, as
disclosed to the respondent states that "there appears to be truth in
the contention of Sh. Sanjiv Chaturvedi regarding alleged harassment
meted out to him by Haryana Government. His request for change of
cadre from Haryana to Uttarakhand merits consideration." It is
contended that the gist of the report clearly evidences that the case
involves issue of corruption and human rights violation and, hence, is
covered by the exceptions created by the proviso to Section 24 of the
Act. 18. It is further contended that the Intelligence Bureau is not
exempted from disclosure of information, if the information is related
to allegations of corruption and human rights violation. It is
contended that the respondent has been fighting against corruption
and has been raising the issues of corruption. Because of the issues of
corruption, raised by the respondent, several orders were passed by
the State Government against the respondent. Four presidential orders
were issued in favour of the respondent quashing various orders
passed by the State Government. 19. It is contended that the respondent has been appreciated and
rewarded for his performance and integrity. The respondent, during
his tenure in the Haryana cadre, is alleged to have exposed corruption
in multi-crore plantation scam in Jhajjar and Hisar district, corruption
in construction of a Herbal Park at private land with Government
money, illicit felling and poaching in Saraswati Wildlife Sanctuary,
corruption in granting license to plywood units etc. 20. It is contended that the respondent was harassed through
suspension, major penalty, departmental chargesheet, police and
vigilance cases and 12 transfers in just five years. 21. It is contended that the respondent applied for change of cadre
from Haryana to Uttrakhand in October 2012 on the ground of major
hardships and threat to life. To assess the threat to life of the
respondent, the then Secretary, MoEF sought for a report from the WP(C) 5521/2016 Page 8 of 17 Intelligence Bureau in August 2014. The intelligence Bureau
confirmed extreme hardships and harassment of the respondent. 22. It is contended by the respondent that proviso to Section 24 covers all cases of corruption and human rights violation and is not
restricted to issues of corruption and human rights violation within the
organizations referred to in the Schedule. 23. It is further contended that, in terms of the Preamble of the Act,
which lays down that the Act is made to promote transparency and
accountability in the working of every public authority and to contain
corruption and to hold Governments and their instrumentalities
accountable to the governed, the information relating to corruption, if
withheld, would negate and defeat the very preamble of the Act. 24. It is contended that several Ministries and Organizations of the
Central Government have disclosed information supplied to them by
the Intelligence Bureau in cases of corruption without claiming
exemptions under Section 24 of the Act. 25. The question that arises for consideration is whether the
exception carved out by the proviso to Section 24 would apply only if
the allegation of corruption or human rights violations were with
regard to the Intelligence Bureau itself or pertaining to an Officer of
the Intelligence Bureau? 26. Section 24 (1) of the Act reads as under:- 27. Section 24 (1) inter alia make the Act inapplicable to
intelligence and security organizations, established by the Central
Government, specified in the Second Schedule and further excludes
any information furnished by such organisations to the Central
Government from being liable to be disclosed. However, an exception
is carved out to the exclusion clause with respect to information
covered by the proviso. The proviso stipulates that if the information
pertains to allegations of corruption and human rights violations, it
shall not be excluded under this sub-section. 28. A distinction is drawn by the proviso between intelligence and
security organizations and the information furnished by such
organisation to the Central Government. The exception carved out by
the proviso to the exclusion clause is only with regard to the WP(C) 5521/2016 Page 10 of 17 information and not with regard to the intelligence and security
organizations. 29. The plain reading of the proviso shows that the exclusion is
applicable with regard to any information. The term "any
information" would include within its ambit all kinds of information.
The proviso becomes applicable if the information pertains to
allegations of corruption and human rights violation. The proviso is
not qualified and conditional on the information being related to the
exempt intelligence and security organizations. If the information
sought, furnished by the exempt intelligence and security
organizations, pertains to allegations of corruption and human rights
violation, it would be exempt from the exclusion clause. 30. The proviso "Provided that the information pertaining to the
allegations of corruption and human rights violations shall not be
excluded under this sub-section" has to be read in the light of the
preceding phrase "or any information furnished by such organisations
to that Government". 31. When read together, the only conclusion that can be drawn is
that, if the information sought pertains to allegation of corruption and
human right violation, it would be exempt from the exclusion clause,
irrespective of the fact that the information pertains to the exempt
intelligence and security organizations or not or pertains to an Officer
of the Intelligence Bureau or not. 32. The Judgments in the case of SUNDARAM PILLAI (Supra) and ROHITASH KUMAR (supra) are clearly not applicable in the facts of
the present case. The interpretation as rendered above, does not
nullify the enactment or take away a right in entirety. In fact, the right
to obtain information, conferred by the Act, is taken away by the
exclusion in Section 24 of the Act. The proviso carves out an
exception to the exclusion clause and further brings the information
within the ambit of the Act. The proviso is in line with the very object
of the Act. 33. A Division Bench of the Madras High Court in
SUPERINTENDENT OF POLICE, CENTRAL RANGE, OFFICE OF THE

DIRECTORATE OF VIGILANCE AND ANTI-CORRUPTION V. R.
KARTHIKEYAN, AIR 2012 Mad 84 has very aptly culled out the
necessity and the object for enactment of the Act in the following
manner: 13. The pride for enactment of the Right to
 Information Act would certainly go to the judiciary as
 could be seen from certain observations of the Hon'ble
 Apex Court in some of the judgments. The judgment
 in Union of India v. Association for Democractic
 Reforms, AIR 2002 SC 2112 is again a forerunner for
 recognising the right to information as a fundamental
 right and the said judgment laid the foundation over
 which the superstructure of the Right to Information Act,
 2005 was built. In Peoples' Union for Civil
 Liberties v. Union of India , 2004 (1) CTC 241 (SC) : In another case in Union of India v. Assn. for Democratic
 Reforms, 2002 (5) SCC 294, it was observed that "the
 right to get information in a democracy is recognized all
 throughout and it is a natural right flowing from the
 concept of democracy". 14. The Apex Court in India Jaising v. Registrar
 General , Supreme Court of India, 2003 (5) SCC 494,
 also took the same view and held -- 34. CIC has found that the Respondent was put to extreme hardship
by the corrupt political rulers and corrupt public servants in retaliation
of his unstinted Implementation of rule of law. CIC has further found
that the gist of IB report as furnished by IB in response to the RTI
request of appellant shows that its disclosure could cause no harm to
core activity of security or intelligence of IB. The IB report is
information as per Section 2(f) held by MoEF and the information
pertains to allegation of corruption and human rights violation. 35. Clearly, the information sought by the respondent falls in the
category of being exempt from the exclusion clause and is liable to be
supplied. 36. The judgment in the case of ADARSH SHARMA (supra) relied
upon by learned counsel for the petitioner has no applicability in the
facts of the present case. The Court in that case was dealing with WP(C) 5521/2016 Page 16 of 17 information sought, concerning one doctor from the Ministry of Home
Affairs. The information sought was about the date of last departure
of the doctor from India, the destination, airlines and the passport
number. The application was transferred by the CPIO, Ministry of
Home Affairs to the Intelligence Bureau. The Intelligence Bureau
claimed exemption under Section 24 of the Act. The information
sought for, pertained to the Immigration Department of the
Intelligence Bureau. Since the information was not related to the
allegations of corruption or human rights violation, learned Single
Judge held that the said information did not come within the purview
of the exceptions carved out by the proviso to Section 24 of the Act.
It is, in these circumstances, that the directions of the CIC, directing
supply of information, were quashed. 37. In view of the above, looked at from any angle, there is no
infirmity with the view taken by the CIC by the impugned order dated
21.04.2016. There is no merit in the petition. The same is accordingly
dismissed. No orders as to costs. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J
August 23 , 2017
St/HJ WP(C) 5521/2016 Page 17 of 17