“In terms of the reporting time [for cybersecurity incidents], whether 6 hours is too less or too long, if you look at precedents all around the world […] there are countries that mandate immediate reporting. And I think we have been extremely generous because we have given 6 hours,” the Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on May 18 while releasing the FAQs document on the new cybersecurity directive .

The cybersecurity directive mandates all companies to report cyber incidents to CERT-In within 6 hours of noticing such incidents or being brought to notice about such incidents. But this timeline has been criticised by cybersecurity experts and tech companies for being unfeasible, burdensome, and not in line with global standards.

The Indian government, however, refused to budge on this requirement arguing that some countries have shorter timelines. Sanjay Bahl, Director General of CERT-In, even shared a list of countries that supposedly have more stringent timelines to report cybersecurity incidents and data breaches.

Dear reader, we urgently need to build capacity to cover the fast-moving tech policy space. For that, our independent newsroom is counting on you . Subscribe to MediaNama today, and help us report on the policies that govern the internet.

As illustrated above, there are multiple cases where other countries have more stringent timelines to report cyber security incidents, but it applies only to companies in specific sectors (financial, telecom, critical infrastructure) or for cyber incidents of a specific criticality (high, very high). In contrast, India’s 6-hour reporting timeline applies to all companies and for a long list of incidents that range from less severe (and very common) phishing attacks to highly critical attacks on critical infrastructure. As such, it is an unfair and superficial comparison that CERT-In is making.

Defending the 6-hour timeline, Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar provided the following rationale:

“Please understand, the actors are no longer amateurs. It used to be ten years ago when we talk about cyber breaches and cyber incidents, you think of one young person sitting behind a computer trying to hack a firewall to get some academic satisfaction. Today, it is not that. The criminality and the cyber incidents and the nature, type, form, shape of it are very complex. They have very sinister elements behind it. There are many state actors that are also using vulnerabilities in various countries’ internet space. And very importantly, why this logic of very rapid reporting is almost essential to the internet is those who commit these breaches can move on very quickly. […] With all of the tools that they have, the breach could be one place, can originate from one place and they can move on very rapidly to undertake the same type of breaches from multiple other locations. So immediate reporting, very quick reporting is fundamental to investigating forensic analysis and situational awareness of the nature of the incident and our conspiracy behind it.”

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama here and post your comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event