SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Basically all Ed-Tech companies are scams.  Intellipaat, Simplilearn, CodingNinja all of them, I Lost 4L in total
DATE: 2024-04-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1bzziiv/basically_all_edtech_companies_are_scams/

--- POST TEXT ---

I don't remember getting baited by scam stuff online, be it fake download links or cheap iPhones or Nigerian Prince.

Unfortunately when you are 27 and still earning less than 50K Per month after being in an MNC for 4 years, 

You try to go out of the boundary, Some collapse, and some rise, for me Collapse.

I decided to go with Cloud Computing, searched for an institution and Found Intellipaat is offering courses that are from Havard! which exceeded my expectations.

I enrolled, Attended 3 classes, and realized it is worse than Top Udemy Courses.

I asked for a refund, but they kept denying it, 

They told me my registration is done with Tied Up University, hence they can't process the refund request.

I kept sending emails and phone calls, then they offered me to find someone and transfer the course to him/her or take pause.

These people are so arrogant that they make jokes and laugh at me saying "And Mr ... here your refund request has been successfully rejected(with a trolling voice). 

And they blackmailed me if I review Intellipaat they will charge a defamation case on me.

That's why you will never see a single negative review on YouTube about Intellipaat.

I thought Simplilearn would be better, so I enrolled there, and if Intellipaat is 99% worse, Simplilearn is 100% worse, It's horrible, They even withdrew their support and helpline due to excess refund requests from too many students.

Then I tried Geek4Geek

It was advertised as Live class, and when purchased it is recorded and some weekly random live classes.

Luckily it was not as expensive as above 2, and I used a credit card to pay, when they denied refund, I charged back.

Hired a Lawyer, spent 20K, been more than a year, That guy seldom picks calls, and when picks, he says he will tell me later about the status.

I haven't missed paying EMI so far as I don't want drama from the Finance company.

For the Last 2 years, at the end of the month, I have been unable to save 2K on my own because of Ed-tech EMI and a Family loan, 2 more years to go.

This year recived 1/3 bonus, 4K increment, and remained junior, management said there's no problem with my performance, the recession is responsible, and company is unable to bear expenses.

Friends pop up after a decade asking for immediate help because it's an extreme emergency, once Paid, they never show face or pick call.

When life continues going south for years, Faith dies. The rat race wins over everything.

Reality is too real! 
I am super dumb to believe EVERYTHING HAPPENS FOR A GOOD AND SHOULD GO WITH THE FLOW OF LIFE.