1. This is the first bail application filed under Section 483 of the Bharatiya

 Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS') for grant of regular

 bail to the applicant who has been arrested in connection with Crime

 No.1467/2025 registered at Police Station Civil Lines, District Bilaspur

 (C.G.) for the offence punishable under Section 318(4) of BNS, 2023. 2. Case of the prosecution, in brief, is that it is alleged against the

 applicant that he has given cheques to 16 businessman's while

 purchasing the articles from them which was subsequently 2 dishonoured, the main allegation against in the present case is that he

 has purchased some article of Rs 89,400/- and given a cheque of

 HDFC Bank, Niharika Chowk, Korba bearing cheque no. 000161,

 which was subsequently bounced while complainant demanded the

 money, he has given excuse, it is alleged that the applicant committed

 fraud to the 16 businessman for a sum of Rs. 21,31,000/-, whereas in

 the instant case the dispute with the complainant with regard to Rs.

 89,400/-only, the complainant is having shop some article has been

 purchased by the applicant for a sum of Rs.89,400/- while trying to

 make payment online same became unsuccessful, hence applicant

 given cheque of HDFC Bank bearing cheque No. 000101 of Account

 No. 50100631861638, while mentioning the amount other details same

 was dishonoured due to insufficient funds, thereafter, the complainant

 made several calls to the mobile of the applicant no. 8305558308,

 whereas no response was given by the applicant, hence the aforesaid

 FIR has been registered against the applicant and he has been

 arrested on 12.12.2025. Hence this bail application. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is innocent

 and has been falsely implicated in the present case. He would submit

 that the dispute arises out of a business transaction of Rs.89,400/- and

 at best, the matter attracts proceedings under Section 138 of the

 Negotiable Instruments Act. However, instead of adopting the proper

 legal remedy, the complainant has given a criminal colour of cheating

 and forgery by lodging the FIR. He would submit that the cheque in

 question was issued as security after online payment through UPI

 failed due to technical issues, upon dishonour of the cheque, the

 complainant ought to have proceeded under the NI Act . He would 3 submit that the charge sheet has been filed in this case, the applicant

 is in jail since 12/12/2025 and conclusion of trial will take some time,

 therefore, he prays for grant of bail to the applicant. 4. On the other hand, learned State Counsel opposes the bail application

 and he would submit that charge sheet has been filed in this case

 before the competent court and the applicant has two criminal

 antecedents in which he has been acquitted. 5. I have heard learned counsel appearing for the parties and perused the

 case diary. 6. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case,

 nature of allegation levelled against the applicant, period of detention

 of the applicant since 12/12/2025, charge sheet has been filed,

 applicant has two criminal antecedents in which he has been acquitted

 and also considering the fact that trial is likely to take some time for its

 conclusion, therefore this Court is of the view that the applicant is

 entitled to be released on bail in this case. 7. Accordingly, the bail application is allowed and it is directed that the

 Applicant- Ujjawal Vishwas, involved in Crime No.1467/2025

 registered at Police Station Civil Lines, District Bilaspur (C.G.) for the

 offence punishable under Section 318(4) of BNS, 2023, be released on

 bail on his furnishing a personal bond with two sureties in the like

 sum to the satisfaction of the Court concerned with the following

 conditions:- (iv) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the trial

 court on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case, (ii) framing of

 charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 351 of

 BNSS. If in the opinion of the trial court absence of the applicant

 is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for

 the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and

 proceed against him in accordance with law. 8. Office is directed to send a certified copy of this order to the trial Court

 for necessary information and compliance. Sd/- (Ramesh Sinha)
 CHIEF JUSTICE
gouri