SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How should a person protect himself after getting the unavoidable Aadhar card ?
DATE: 2017-03-27
SCORE: 34
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/61q3n5/how_should_a_person_protect_himself_after_getting/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am planning to avoid it as long as practical but I feel within the next year I will have to cave in and get an Aadhar card. How should I live my life so that there is no/absolutely minimum Aadhar trail. 
 
Since banks would have linked my Aadhar I think - 
 
1. Go cash only. Withdraw every weekend and spend in cash. This way govt. cannot track my spending. This includes shopping online using COD only and using multiple variations of my name and home address to avoid analytics by pattern detection.
 
2. Should I carry my driving license or is it better to pay a bribe for minor traffic infractions and avoid showing my license to traffic cops.
 
3. For mobile SIMS are there any VOIP solutions like Google Voice/Skype I can use that provide a virtual number ? I am willing to accept a fact that I can be connected only where Wi-Fi is available. If I am on the street then there is no way to use voice calling. In case of any emergency I can probably ask for help from some random guy on the street and pay him cash for using his phone for few minutes.
 
4. Broadband - If govt. wants me to link my broadband connection with Aadhar would VPN solutions keep me safe ? Can I buy a virtual machine in the cloud and setup my own VPN ?
 
5. PAN Card/Taxes - This is one area I find unavoidable. I will be transparent about my earnings and hope to hide my spending trail by using cash.
 
6. Locking biometric authentication - There was a website link in a previous r/India post where you could go and lock the use of authentication.
 
7. For places that do not need authentication but have a habit of asking for physical copy of ID proof (eg. airport, govt. offices, electricity/water board) can I provide a fake aadhar number (photoshopped copy with my name/address slightly modified to allow for deniability). The babu might take only one look and it will then go in to a file never to be looked at again.

More ideas welcome. I can compile all of them and create an easy to read guide for anyone who wants to keep big brother out.