1.
 
 On the basis of Judgment and Order dated 23 rd December, 

 2008 passed by learned Single Judge, the Hon'ble the Chief Justice 
 
 passed an order on the Administrative Side directing that these matters 

 should be placed before a Division Bench. Accordingly, these 
 

 Applications have been placed before this Court. 2. The reference to Division Bench is for deciding the two 

 questions formulated by the learned Single Judge under his Judgment 

 and Order dated 23rd December, 2008. The said two questions are :- SUBMISSIONS: The submission of the learned counsel appearing for the Accused is that 
 
 a cheuque issued in discharge of liability of payment of a time barred 

 debt or liability cannot be said to be a cheque issued in discharge of a 
 

 legally enforceable debt or other liability. The submission is that on the 
 

 date on which the cheque is issued, there does not exist any legally 

 recovered debt or liability inasmuch as the same is already barred by 

 law of limitation. It is urged that a time barred debt cannot be said to 

 be a legally recoverable debt, and therefore, even assuming that the 

 first question will have to be answered in the affirmative, the second 

 question will have to be answered in the negative. It is urged that even 

 assuming that a cheque issued towards time barred debt becomes a 

 promise within the meaning of Section 25(3) of the Contract Act, the 

 fact remains that on the date of the cheque, it is issued towards the 

 discharge of a debt or liability which is not legally recoverable. Learned ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:18:17 ::: ash 7 crappln-2933.07-grp

 counsel appearing for the parties have relied upon various decisions in 

 support of their submissions. CONSIDERATION OF THE FIRST QUESTION 5. It will be necessary to make a reference to the relevant 

 provisions of the Contract Act . It will be necessary to make a reference 

 
 to Section 2 of the Contract Act which is the interpretation clause. It 

 reads thus:- 6. Clauses (a) and (b) of Section 2 of the Contract Act, if read 

 together, show that when a proposal is accepted, it becomes a promise. In view of clause (e) of Section 2 of the Contract Act , a promise is an 
 

 agreement. By virtue of Clauses (g) and (h) of Section 2 of the 

 Contract Act, an agreement which is not enforceable by law is said to be 

 void and an agreement which is enforceable by law is a contract. Clause (j) provides that a contract which ceases to be enforceable by 

 law becomes void when it ceases to be enforceable. 7. If there is a promise to pay an amount and if a breach 

 thereof is committed, a suit for recovery is required to be filed within 

 stipulated period of limitation provided under the law of Limitation. provides that all agreements are contracts if they are made by free 

 
 consent of the parties competent to contract for a lawful consideration 

 
 and with a lawful object and which are not expressly declared to be 

 void under the Contract Act . Section 20 of the Contract Act 

 
 incorporates a category of void agreements. Sections 19 and 19A provide for categories of agreements which are voidable. Section 23 provides that if the consideration or the object of an agreement is 
 
 forbidden by law or is immoral or is opposed to public policy, the 

 consideration or object of the agreement is unlawful and the agreement 
 
 is void. Sections 26 to 30 of the Contract Act also provide for 

 different categories of agreements which are void. Therefore, apart 
 

 from the agreements which cease to be enforceable by reason of bar of 
 

 limitation, there are other categories of agreements which are void and, 

 therefore, obviously not enforceable by law. 8. Section 25 of the Contract Act reads thus:- In any of these cases, such an agreement is a contract." 9.
 
 Thus, Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act is 
 
 an exception to the general rule that an agreement made without 

 consideration is void. Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act 
 

 applies to a case where there is a promise made in writing and signed 
 

 by a person to be charged therewith to pay wholly or in part a debt 

 which is barred by law of limitation. A promise covered by Sub-section 

 (3) becomes enforceable agreement notwithstanding the fact that it is a 

 promise to pay a debt which is already barred by limitation. Thus, 

 Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act applies to a promise 

 made in writing which is signed by a person to pay a debt which cannot 

 be recovered by reason of expiry of period of limitation for filing a suit 

 for recovery. Therefore, if a debtor after expiry of the period of 

 limitation provided for recovery of debt makes a promise in writing 

 signed by him to pay the debt wholly or in part, the said promise being 

 governed by Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act becomes ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:18:17 ::: ash 11 crappln-2933.07-grp

 an agreement which is enforceable in law. By virtue of the promise 

 governed by Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act, the time 

 
 barred debt becomes enforceable. The Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of 

 
 the Contract Act does not apply to promise to pay all categories of debts 

 which are not enforceable in law. It applies only to a debt which is 

 
 not recoverable in law only on the ground of bar created by the law of 

 limitation. Thus, the promise under Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of 

 
 the Contract Act will not validate a debt which is not enforceable on a 
 
 ground other than the ground of bar of limitation. For example, if 

 there is a promise to pay an amount advanced for immoral purposes 
 
 which is hit by Section 23 of the Contract Act, it will not attract Sub- section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act and the said provision will 
 

 be attracted only when a promise is made in writing and signed by the 
 

 promisor to pay a debt which is barred by limitation. 10. At this stage, it will be necessary to make a reference to the 

 decision of the Apex Court in the case of A.V. Murthy v. B.S. 

 Nagabasavanna [(2002)ALL MR (Cri) 709 (S.C.)]. It will be necessary 

 to make a reference to Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the decision of the Apex 

 Court. The relevant portions of Paragraph 5 and Paragraph 6 read 

 thus:- (emphasis added) 11.
 
 A negotiable instrument is defined under Section 13 of the 
 
 said Act of 1881. A negotiable instrument includes a cheque. A 

 cheque is defined by Section 6 which reads thus:- Explanation II.--For the purposes of this section, the

 
 expression "clearing house" means the clearing house
 managed by the Reserve Bank of India or a clearing house
 recognised as such by the Reserve Bank of India." 12. The decision of the Apex Court in the case of A.V. Murthy v. B.S. Nagabasavanna (supra) holds that a promise to pay a time barred 
 
 debt is a valid contract. Now, the question is when a cheque is drawn in 

 discharge of a debt or monetary liability which is already barred by law 
 
 of limitation, whether it will amount to a promise within the meaning 

 of Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act? We find that the 
 

 issue is no more res integra. The issue has been dealt with by the 
 

 Apex Court in the case of National Insurance Company Limited v. Seema Malhotra and Others (supra). This was a case which arose out 

 of a contract of insurance. The insured of the Appellant Company 

 before the Apex Court entered into an insurance contract on 21 st 

 December, 1993 for insuring a Maruti Car. On the same day, a cheque 

 representing the premium was issued by the insured against which a 

 Cover Note was issued by the Appellant Company. In an accident which 

 occurred on 31st December, 1993, the insured died and the car was also 

 damaged. While dealing with the contract of insurance, in Paragraph 

 17 of the decision, the Apex Court held thus:- ash 14 crappln-2933.07-grp

 "17. In a contract of insurance when the

 
 insured gives a cheque towards payment
 of premium or part of the premium, such

 
 a contract consists of reciprocal
 promise. The drawer of the cheque
 promises the insurer that the cheque, on
 presentation, would yield the amount in
 cash. It cannot be forgotten that a cheque

 
 is a bill of exchange drawn on a
 specified banker. A bill of exchange is an
 instrument in writing containing an
 unconditional order directing a certain

 
 person to pay a certain sum of money to
 a certain person. It involves a promise
 
 that such money would be paid. (emphasis added) 13. Thus, the Apex Court held that the drawer of a cheque 

 promises to the person in whose favour the cheque is drawn or to 
 

 whom a cheque is endorsed, that the cheque on presentation would 
 

 yield the amount in cash. The Apex Court held that a bill of exchange 

 is an instrument which involves a promise that the money payable 

 under the instrument would be paid. Therefore, when a cheque issued 

 towards the premium is returned dishonoured, the insured fails to 

 perform his promise and, therefore, the insurer need not perform the 

 reciprocal part of his promise. 14. The section 13 of the said Act of 1881 which defines 

 negotiable instrument reads thus: ash 15 crappln-2933.07-grp

 "13. "Negotiable instrument".-- 1[(1) A "negotiable
 instrument" means a promissory note, bill of exchange or
 cheque payable either to order or to bearer.]

 
 Explanation (i).--A promissory note, bill of exchange or

 
 cheque is payable to the order which is expressed to be so
 payable or which is expressed to be payable to a particular
 person, and does not contain words, prohibiting transfer or
 indicating an intention that it shall not be transferable. Explanation (ii).--A promissory note, bill of exchange or
 cheque is payable to bearer which is expressed to be so
 payable or on which the only or last endorsement is an
 endorsement in blank. Explanation (iii).--Where a promissory note, bill of
 
 exchange or cheque, either originally or by endorsement, is
 expressed to be payable to the order of a specified person,
 and not to him or his order, it is nevertheless payable to him
 
 or his order at his option. 2[(2) A negotiable instrument may be payable to two or
 

 more payees jointly, or it may be made payable in the
 alternative to one of two, or one or some of several
 

 payees]." 15. On plain reading of Section 13 of the said Act of 1881, a 

 negotiable instrument does contain a promise to pay the amount 

 mentioned therein. The promise is given by the drawer . Under Section 

 6 of the said Act of 1881, a cheque is a bill of exchange drawn on a 

 specified banker. The drawer of a cheque promises to the person in 

 whose name the cheque is drawn or to whom the cheque is endorsed, 

 that the cheque on its presentation, would yield the amount specified 

 therein. Hence, it will have to be held that a cheque is a promise 

 within the meaning of Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act. ash 16 crappln-2933.07-grp

 What follows is that when a cheque is drawn to pay wholly or in part, a 

 debt which is not enforceable only by reason of bar of limitation, the 

 
 cheque amounts to a promise governed by the Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act. Such promise which is an agreement 

 becomes exception to the general rule that an agreement without 

 
 consideration is void. Though on the date of making such promise by 

 issuing a cheque, the debt which is promised to be paid may be already 

 
 time barred, in view of Sub-section(3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act, 
 
 the promise/agreement is valid and, therefore, the same is enforceable. The promise to pay time barred debt becomes a valid contract as held 
 
 by the Apex Court in the case of A.V.Moorthy (supra). Therefore, the 

 first question will have to be answered in the affirmative. CONSIDERATION OF THE SECOND QUESTION 16. Section 138 of the said Act of 1881 reads thus:- Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, "debt or
 other liability" means a legally enforceable debt or other
 liability. 17. Sections 118 and 139 of the said Act of 1881 read thus:- ' 18. Under Section 118, there is a rebuttable presumption that 

 every negotiable instrument was made or drawn for consideration. Section 139 creates a rebuttable presumption in favour of a holder of a ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:18:17 ::: ash 19 crappln-2933.07-grp

 cheque. The presumption is that the holder of a cheque received the 

 cheque of the nature referred to in Section 138 for discharge, in whole 

 
 or in part of any debt or liability. Thus, under the aforesaid two 

 
 Sections, there are rebuttable presumptions which extend to the 

 existence of consideration and to the fact that the cheque was for the 

 
 discharge of any debt or liability. 19. Under the Explanation to Section 138 , the debt or other 
 
 liability referred to in the main Section has to be a legally enforceable 

 debt or liability. Merely because a cheque is drawn for discharge, in 
 
 whole or in part of the debt or other liability, Section 138 of the said Act 

 of 1881 will not be attracted. The provision will apply provided the debt 
 

 or other liability is legally enforceable. Thus, Section 138 will not apply 
 

 to a cheque drawn in discharge of a debt or liability which is not legally 

 enforceable. There may be several categories of debts or other 

 liabilities which are not legally enforceable. A debt or liability is legally 

 enforceable if the same can be lawfully recovered by adopting due 

 process of law. The emphasis is on the fact that the debt or other 

 liability must be a legally enforceable liability. A debt or liability ceases 

 to be legally enforceable after expiry of the period of limitation 

 provided in the law of limitation for filing a suit for recovery of the 

 amount. Thus, a time barred debt by no stretch of imagination can be 

 said to be a legally enforceable debt within the meaning of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 19:18:18 ::: ash 20 crappln-2933.07-grp

 explanation to Section 138 . 20. While recording our answer to the first Question, we have 

 
 already held that a cheque issued for discharge of a debt which is 

 barred by law of limitation is itself a promise within the meaning of 

 
 Sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act. A promise is an 

 agreement and such promise which is covered by Section 25(3) of the 

 
 Contract Act becomes enforceable contract provided that the same is 
 
 not otherwise void under the Contract Act . 21. Therefore, while answering second Question, we are 

 specifically dealing with a case of promise created by a cheque issued 
 

 for discharge of a time barred debt or liability. Once it is held that a 
 

 cheque drawn for discharge of a time barred debt creates a promise 

 which becomes enforceable contract, it cannot be said that the cheque 

 is drawn in discharge of debt or liability which is not legally 

 enforceable. The promise in the form of a cheque drawn in discharge 

 of a time barred debt or liability becomes enforceable by virtue of Sub- section (3) of Section 25 of the Contract Act. Thus, such cheque 

 becomes a cheque drawn in discharge of a legally enforceable debt as 

 contemplated by the explanation to Section 138 of the said Act of 1881. Therefore, even the second question will have to be answered in the 

 affirmative. ash 21 crappln-2933.07-grp 22. Therefore, we answer both the questions in the affirmative. We direct that these Applications/Petitions shall be placed before the 

 
 appropriate Court for disposal in accordance with law.