SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: need some perspective and help too.
DATE: 2023-04-17
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12owqzw/need_some_perspective_and_help_too/

--- POST TEXT ---

LONG LOOONG POST AHEAD!!!!!!

My mom grew up with her aunt who was abusive to her, made her work like slave, didn't provide with proper food, body shamed her, and my mom used to wash the most dirtiest clothes like containing poop, pee or RBC's (:D). They were of older people or pregnant women of the house. Like my mom was literal slave to them. Imagine the trauma. Her parents were not good financially so that's why they sent her to her aunt. She was basically silenced, she learned to never say NO, or to ask for extra food or to wear good.  or smile, or talk to people, or eat properly.

Then, she was married to a man who was 15 years older than her, AKA my father, she literally met him on her wedding day. marriage arranged by this aunt of her's.

His family was the same, they discarded her, made her work like slave (in a village), made some vile accusations, so all the extra work too. My father was not even interested in building a relationship with her. My mom tried everything in her will to make it work, she just needed a lil bit of love and care, he failed miserably for both of us. Like once,my mom was about to die due to sudden health problems, they didn't even cared to go to the hospital, thankfully she was saved.

My father was absent, like literally. He never cared for us or loved. Not even for me, he preferred his sister's kids instead of me. He never loved my mom, never supported her or cared for her or me. She would've killed herself if she stayed.

She left with me when i was 2 or 3. Raised me alone. We literally lie to people that everything is good at home, that her husband and my father visit us and he is good, we are a happy family.  They are not divorced.  he supports us financially because he did not want divorce.

Now, along the way, comes a man, who was someone my mom knew before her marriage, he gave my mom the right amount of little attention for the wrong time, as rn he is fucking abusive.

Anyways he got married, that too arrange marriage, and my mom was still attached to him, because she didn't have anyone. She is a homemaker. My mom has met his wife before their relation started (i don't really know though), (about 1.5 decades ago) she was suspicious about my mother, when there was nothing really going on between them, so his wife provoked his family against my mom. Cut to 3 years later probably, they actually did get intimate. And ohhh, how he used to say, that his wife was not good, and he has no relation with his wife and kid. Cut to some years, another kid is born, my mom was upset that he lied. He again manipulated her, saying that the family wanted the kids so he had to, while sleeping with my mom.(about 7 or 8 years ago)

I am not denying that he was there for my mother when she actually needed someone, but what she did was wrong. And moreover, he controls her, but my mom was also jealous of her wife and kids, because she used to yell at him on why he is being good to her or doing things that a husband should. I think that my mom wanted that love but never received it. And was jealous of her, however his wife was also not so good, she provoked everyone in his family against him, at that time when there was nothing going on, and till now, everyone in his family thinks that he is still in an affair with my mom, when they are not, and never will be, I AM NOT GOING TO LET IT HAPPEN.

When i was a kid, my mom tried to kill herself by eating alot sleeping pills once and then she cutted her wrist in order to die, i was so scared at those moment, that i would run to this man just to save my mom. \*what bothers me alot is he still sometimes and back in the day would call my mom darling, sweetheart and my love in texts while being married and having kids, until 4 years ago, even now, sometimes he texts her like that.\*

The thing that bothered me and still does is, my mom had sex beside me for years with this man like literally on the same bed for almost 10 years, it happened 20+times. They once did in in daylight beside me, i disturbed them, (i was 14),and once, with our entire family sleeping in the same room, grandma, aunts, kids, they still did it. (I was 6), once with me and my uncle(in his early 20s) in the same bed (i was 11). I mean if they didn't cared about adults being in the room or other kids , even in the same bed, they obv didn't cared about me, especially this man. WE JUST HAD 2 ROOMS, STILL DO.

Now, that i sort of understand life, what she did was obviously not okay for her me and her actions were trauma informed and well she wasn't really mentally stable back then. Imaging having all this trauma and a baby girl and wrong man. We were also poor back then so no space. \* we still share a room, but he doesn't stay in our place anymore.\* My mom would honestly say no to him many times or try to push him off, but he would still do it and she would remain silent. I think that she knew that what she was doing was wrong esp with me being involved, but who knows. 

Now, coming back to me, i find it hard to express what i want or to make decisions. I was harassed when i was a kid, apart from school bully, i was SA. A boy kissed me forcefully when i was 7 , we went to visit his uncle house/my neighbour.

I think my mom and this neighbour had a fling back then, because they would leave me and go to the other room and my mom would wash her mouth after and once i peeped through a hole in this neighbour's room, and from what i recall, i heard \*noises\* and blurry vision of two people moving, anyways that was none of my business, my curiosity instead. When i knew what sex was i immediately knew that that man or my neighbour and my mom were doing.

When i was 8, this neighbour who was in his 30s kissed me on lips and i still remember the shivers i felt. Anyways my mom broke connections with him once i turned 9 or 10 maybe.

Again when i was 7, we were travelling with 3 strangers(all men), they were acting really nice and insisted for me to sit on one of the man's lap, and due to lack of space, i did sat with him, HE TOUCHED ME DOWN THERE WITH HIS DISGUSTING FINGERS literally my vag Thankfully that was for some seconds and i sat on my mom's lap for the next hours. Fucking pedo.

When i was 11, she invited a man over to dinner and we literally knew him for some months, like my mom didn't even talked to him much, she wanted to help him as he was struggling due to some family problems. Again, we knew him for just some months, he came over, had dinner, we were watching tv and talking, and all of a sudden, he keep his head on my mom's lap and ask for a kiss. She denied ofc but because there were just 2 women and 1 man in the house, like considering the consequences of raising voice, like he can do worse. She didn't asked him to move his head, instead just talked, all infront of me. He left really late at night, They were out in the dark for 15 minutes, i m sure he did kissed her.

Anyways, my mom broke connections with him too soon after.

\*all this didn't bothered me till like a year ago, it all came flashing back, and i remember saying to myself, oh wait, this wasn't normal and i had a really traumatic childhood.\*

It's all so weird for me because i have never seen a healthy loving relationship between my parents or anyone. I want my mom to date but openly and right people not such creeps or weirdos.

Anyways, all this while being physical with that man that i told you earlier, most of the days for 10 years, from when i was 6 to 14 or 15.

She craved companionship and found it in wrong people while giving me trauma. Because she was so devoid of love from her entire life and that resulted in a broken me. She thought that maybe this was the love she deserved.

My mom also talked to 1 guy who was really genuine and nice, recently but he wanted her to be rich, which frankly we are not. Connections were broken again. It was online. he was worse too. i was 16.

i am 18 rn. It has given me alot of trauma that i can't handle.

I mean my mom is the best mother one can ever hope for in every other aspect apart from the above mentioned issues. She never bodyshamed me, i have freedom to live life the way i want it to be, she basically does what i want, if i don't help her in chores, no prob, if i don't study, no prob. I literally don't help her in household chores, i wake up at 2 pm or 4pm, sleep at 5 am or 6 am, talk badly, eat shit, don't study or using my phone 24/7, no problem from herside . She genuinely cares for me amd love me. She gives me time, listens to me, pamper me,provide me with everything. Never compares me with anyone .She sacrifices alot. I can see the loneliness in her eyes, how she never got the love she deserved. We are each other support systems. parents think that their kids are way too naive and innocent.

i have failed as a daughter, in my heart i love her I am getting rude. I don't want this. I want to be happy.I hate my father. My mom did a terrible terrible parenting mistake.

I can't just ignore it, it's in my head. I don't know if my mom knows that i am aware of all these things but i have strictly asked her to restrict that man from coming to our house because i hate him ,some months ago. He uses my mom like she is a puppet, he cheats on his wife, he is narcissistic, he emotionally and verbally abuses my mom, but she can't seem to let him go. I want her to let him go. I want her to believe that everything's gonna be alright without him. My mom otherwise, tells me how bad cheating is, but what about him, he is doing the same. Also, he lies to us, talks bad about his wife and says that nothing is good in his house. While living happily with his wife and kids and using my mom too.

Ik y'all will suggest therapy, but i can't rn, i need to go to college and get a job, moreover, no steady income source. Tell me something so that i can just calm myself down and try to heal.

I m just idk what to feel, part of me sympathizes with mom than part of me hate her.Rn, she is mentally stable but alone and i feel pity for her. It's been 4 or 5 years since all these instances but they seem so fresh to me as if it was happening infront of me again and i m just watching and feeling sad for my mom and myself. My mom was a victim and i was too.

I love talking to her, loving her, caring her but our past is alot to handle for me at this young age. I hate my a-hole father, all these men, that pedo, that guy. Fuck every single man in my life and my mom's.

I wish i was better as a daughter and as a human. Also, i don't have discipline in my life. Sometimes i think maybe it's depression but i don't feel like i am depressed eveyday. My mum has been there for me at my lowest, she stood by me when everyone was against me. Also, please don't tell me to talk about my mom about this stuff, at the end to the day, she is asian and we all know how that ends.I just want to make peace with my past and be happy and get success in life whether it's my career, my healing, my relationships with people and my mom.

One more thing to add lmao, i get that everyone needs love, my mom does too, but was it okay for her to handle her flings infront of me? Like why didn't she handled them more maturely, \*sigh\* but then, again, she had her own trauma.

Also, everything is well since i turned 15, well, atleast, she doesn't sleep with him beside me anymore or does anything inappropriate. they would talk daily and text daily, he would even visit daily, however, all this has been reduced in frequency since i started to show his red flags to mom, while pretending that i don't know what kinda thing they doing (sexual) but like normally, his behaviour and abusive/narcissistc traits, since then, she has been a little aware, since like a year ago.....I also feel guilty if i think of being in love someday or sharing things with them, i feel guilty thinking of my mom, idk why.

Also, my mom and her flings or whatever abusive relationships that she had, no one knows about them except her. I am understanding them now, as i am growing up and getting a hold on these things. Back when i was a kid, i thought that it was okay while being uncomfortable but still appreciating her. But now, i think it was not and alot of it has a huge role in my truama and behaviour. 

I still love her though, would never want anyone else other than her. I need her warmth, her hugs, her kisses, her love She has every right to date or to marry, but ig i was young and she was a little not so experienced in life and how to set boundaries. She was never in a relationship with anyone like the first man was more like an fwb with my mom being emotionally attached, love would be a big word, and the other guys were just flings probably.

i SH myself today.

since last year, there has been a huge change in me like i am not acting good. It's not like my mom actively hurting me or anything, these things happened in the past, and alot of time has been passed. But idk why i act up whenever i remember them. Like i am being so rude these days, even i can't believe it.

I also get like really violent thoughts but i don't act on them. Sometimes, i hurt my own mom, out of nowhere, like i hold her hand way to tightly that it will hurt her, doing it consciously but still i have no idea how i do it or why. Like i sort of black out and it lashes on her physically, even tho i have no intention of harming her. This one time i had this really impulsive/intrusive thought to put pillow on her face to suffocate her, i did put a pillow on he face, was trying to pressure it, but came back to reality and cried for 2 hours straight. This is not me. I have become a monster. I wasn't like this 1 year ago.

I want to give the world to her, i have seen her struggle eveyday, she is so alone, i am staying at home since last 3 years because i am preparing and lockdown, i don’t have friends like not even onewe love eachother and cuddle daily.

I haven't left my house in 5 months, not that i did much before that, because i am too insecure of myself, of my body, 'what will people say', my anxiety is at peak when i go out, so i don't. 

 I yell at my mom if she laughs or sometimes talk high, i hate myself. I yell or scold her for absolutely no reason sometimes. I just want to be a better person, because this is not me.

She doesn't yell at me or talk bad about me, have always supported me, except sometimes, when i screw my own life and do things wrong consciously.

I screwed bad like real bad this yearIt has been tough financially as well, the money we receive from my father, half of it my mom gives to my uncles(mama) and my grandma and my aunt's, because they all are unemployed, poor, mom is supporting them since 20 years. My uncles are alcoholics, educated but wasting their lives and well they are now in their 30s and it has been like this since forever. even after all this no one supports or appreciate her, not even my uncles or grandma or aunts, they talk shit, they all are literally living because of my mom. she deserves so much, she is unappreciated by all of us. I have seen her struggle daily. i am srewing my life and she is still supporting me.

this man, used to touch my mom inappropriately infront of me, like her back/bra, and legs, smacking her butt, (heck he has even smacked mine \*funnily\*), in a sensual way(for mom), i would generally leave the room, growing up, but since 2021, i speak up to him, my mom is a coward sometimes, she gets uncomfy but still doesn't raise her voice, or she doesn't, idk. everyone outside my fam thinks that he is a cousin bro of my mom, lol, \*they are not connected through blood or any relation\*

he did supported my mom in her tough times, like when some fam mem died, killing themselves, he helped her. she was so dependent on him to even buy groceries, like she would beg him for days just to get some monthly groceries, and then he would do it, that came with his god complex, LIFE HAS BEEN LIKE THIS SINCE 16 YEARS, MY MOM BEING DEPENDENT ON HIM. we have went to trips after begging him for months, i was a kid, and that too 4 ot 5 times maybe in more than 10 years, his wife was suspicious that he was giving us money while in reality he did not, instead asked money from us and then we have to,beg to get our money back, he did helped us like in general, like giving us or helping us meet people who work like manufacturers(furniture, basic household things, plumbers, electriccians). he did helped my mom buying her house, like he did the talk to people while we invested the money, not him.

also, he hasn't visited in a month, and i am planning to draw our boundaries really strictly.

mum has been really sick the last few days and i am not even looking at her or helping her doing chores, she is making me food and doing alll the stuff and here, i am, stuck inside my head.