order dated 24-05-2017, passed by the learned Financial Commissioner, (Rev)

J&K, Srinagar, and the order dated 21-10-2015, passed in the Revision Petition,

by the learned Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, besides the Notice and the

proceedings initiated by the Tehsildar, Chadoora. 02/ The brief facts, vital for arriving at a just conclusion in this petition, are

that the petitioner's father - Noor Mohamad Kumar, who owned

approximately 12 kanals of land in the revenue estate Wathora, Chadoora,

alienated and transferred, in his lifetime, almost 09 kanals and 11 marlas of the

said land leaving behind approximately 03 kanals for his legal heirs. It is stated

that a mutation bearing No. 2018 dated 23-04-1993 came to be effected in

favour of the two surviving legal heirs of the deceased, viz. the petitioner and OWP no. 293/2018 Page 1 of 15 his sister - namely Mst. Fazi, respondent No.5 herein. It is further stated that

after a long period of more than 20 years, the said mutation came to be

challenged in a Revision Petition by the respondent No.5 before the Divisional

Commissioner, Kashmir, who referred the same to the Financial Commissioner

(Rev), J&K, Srinagar, in gross violation of the position of law. The petitioner has

further stated that while the reference was pending before the Financial

Commissioner, (Revenue), J&K, Srinagar, the respondent No. 5 filed a motion

before the Tehsildar, Chadoora, seeking attestation of a fresh mutation and the

Tehsildar, Chadoora, issued notice to the petitioner for causing his appearance

before the Court. 02/ The petitioner has proceeded to state in the writ petition that the notice

of the Tehsildar, Chadoora, was assailed by him in another writ petition (OWP

2235/2015), filed earlier in point of time, in which an order of status quo was

passed. However, during the pendency of the said writ petition, the Financial

Commissioner, accepted the reference of the Divisional Commissioner, vide

order dated 24-05-2017. It is further stated that the petitioner sought the

withdrawal of the writ petition (OWP 2235/2015) to assail the order of the

Financial Commissioner. The request was accepted by the Hon'ble Court and

liberty was granted to the petitioner to question the order of the Financial

Commissioner as also the order of the Divisional Commissioner by filing a fresh

writ petition. The writ petitioner seeks the quashment of both the orders along OWP no. 293/2018 Page 2 of 15 with the notice issued by the Tehsildar, Chadoora, on the grounds, inter alia,

that the earlier order passed in mutation No. 2018 dated 23.04.1993 still holds

the field and has not been quashed by the competent authority, therefore the

Tehsildar had no jurisdiction to issue the notice on a motion seeking denovo

enquiry as well as attest a fresh mutation. It is further pleaded that the revision

petition before the learned Divisional Commissioner was filed beyond the

prescribed period of limitation. It is also stated that in terms of section 15 of the

Land Revenue Act, the Financial Commissioner as well as the Divisional

Commissioner have been invested with the powers to hear and decide a revision

petition. However, in terms of section 15(4) of the Land Revenue Act, the order

passed by the Divisional Commissioner is subject to the orders passed by the

Financial Commissioner (Rev), and therefore, in view of this legal position, the

order of the Divisional Commissioner has yet to attain finality.

03/ The petitioner has further stated that during the pendency of the

reference, the State of J&K, issued an SRO 307 of 2017, conferring upon Shri Anil

Kumar Gupta (KAS) - Joint Financial Commissioner, Agrarian Reforms, J&K, the

powers of the Financial Commissioner to hear and dispose of the appeals and

revisions under the Land Revenue Act & the Agrarian Reforms Act. It is further

stated that after the date of the promulgation of the SRO, the respondent

Financial Commissioner (Rev), J&K became functus officio and had no

jurisdiction to hear the matter, and therefore, the impugned order dated 24-05- OWP no. 293/2018 Page 3 of 15 2017, passed by him, is illegal & unlawful. The petitioner has further stated that

the orders passed by the authority/s, which lack competence and power in the

revisional capacity and are contrary to the statutory provisions, are liable to be

quashed. The petitioner has finally prayed that in view of the attendant facts

and circumstances of the case, the writ petition be allowed and the reliefs

sought therein be granted. 05/ Heard and considered. 06/ Leaving apart as to whether the learned Financial Commissioner who

dealt with the reference, was empowered to accept the reference on the face

of the notification: Jammu, the 13th December, 2016 issued vide SRO 393, and

the notification: Srinagar, the 26th July, 017 issued vide SRO no. 307, which

conferred powers of the Financial Commissioner, Agrarian Reforms (Revenue)

upon Sh. Arun Kumar Sharma and Shri Anil Kumar Gupta to be exercised by them

respectively for the purpose of hearing and disposing of the appeals and the

revisions under the J&K Land Revenue Act, Samvat 1996 (1939 AD), the first

question that strikes one's mind is whether the Law of Limitation does or does

not apply to a revision filed before the Divisional Commissioner. What can be

said in answer to this question is that there are conflicting judicial dictums on

the subject. Some judicial pronouncements lay down that Section 12 of the Land

Revenue Act which includes within its ambit, scope and purview, a revision also, OWP no. 293/2018 Page 4 of 15 prescribes a period within which a revision can be filed by a party aggrieved of

an order passed in a mutation by an officer subordinate to the Divisional

Commissioner. On the contrary, there are judgments of law which hold that the

powers of the Divisional Commissioner in revision petitions are unfettered and

a revision can be entertained by the Divisional Commissioner at any point of

time under Section 15 of the Land Revenue Act. 7. Section 15 of the Land Revenue Act envisages and encompasses a

situation where the Divisional Commissioner can exercise suo moto powers in a

revision and in this behalf the judicial opinion in some of decided cases is that it

is only where the Divisional Commissioner exercises the suo moto powers that

the law of Limitation does not apply but where a party knocks at the door of the

competent authority, i.e., Divisional Commissioner by filing a revision, the law

of limitation has its application both in vigor and rigor in view of what is

postulated and provided under Section 12 of the land Revenue Act. 8. Be that as it may, and assuming, but not admitting that the law of

limitation does not apply to a revision petition filed before the Divisional

Commissioner, the question simpliciter is whether the Divisional Commissioner

can exercise such a power after a great deal of 20 years approximately from the

date of the attestation of the mutation in a case like the present one and the

answer to it should be a big "No" in view of the detailed and legal interpretation OWP no. 293/2018 Page 5 of 15 of this aspect of the case by the Supreme Court of India in the law laid down in

the case of Joint Collector Ranga Reddy District & Anr. Vs. D. Narsing Rao &

others , (2015) 3 SCC 695, wherein it has been held as under: 12.4 In the decision in State of Punjab vs. Bhatinda District Cooperative Milk Producers
 Union Ltd. , this Court while dealing with the revisional power under Section 21 of the Punjab
 General Sales Tax Act, 1948 held thus : (SCC p 367, paras 17-19)/ OWP no. 293/2018 Page 6 of 15 "17. A bare reading of Section 21 of the Act would reveal that although no period of
 limitation has been prescribed therefor, the same would not mean that the suo motu
 power can be exercised at any time. 18. It is trite that if no period of limitation has been prescribed, statutory authority
 must exercise its jurisdiction within a reasonable period. What, however, shall be the
 reasonable period would depend upon the nature of the statute, rights and liabilities
 thereunder and other relevant factors. 19. Revisional jurisdiction, in our opinion, should ordinarily be exercised within a period
 of three years having regard to the purport in terms of the said Act. In any event, the
 same should not exceed the period of five years................"

 12.5 In the decision in Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham vs. K. Suresh
 Reddy , this Court while dealing with suo motu power of revision under Section 50-B(4) of the
 Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Tenancy and Agricultural Land Act, 1950 held as follows : in sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act only indicates that no specific period of
 limitation is prescribed within which the suo motu power could be exercised reckoning
 or starting from a particular date advisedly and contextually. Exercise of suo motu
 power depended on facts and circumstances of each case. In cases of fraud, this power
 could be exercised within a reasonable time from the date of detection or discovery of
 fraud. While exercising such power, several factors need to be kept in mind such as
 effect on the rights of the third parties over the immovable property due to passage
 of considerable time, change of hands by subsequent bona fide transfers, the orders
 attaining finality under the provisions of other Acts (such as the Land Ceiling Act).
 Hence, it appears that without stating from what date the period of limitation starts
 and within what period the suo motu power is to be exercised, in sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act, the words "at any time" are used so that the suo motu power
 could be exercised within reasonable period from the date of discovery of fraud
 depending on facts and circumstances of each case in the context of the statute and
 nature of rights of the parties. Use of the words "at any time" in sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act cannot be rigidly read letter by letter. It must be read and
 construed contextually and reasonably. If one has to simply proceed on the basis of
 the dictionary meaning of the words "at any time", the suo motu power under sub-
 section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act could be exercised even after decades and then
 it would lead to anomalous position leading to uncertainty and complications seriously
 affecting the rights of the parties, that too, over immovable properties. Orders
 attaining finality and certainty of the rights of the parties accrued in the light of the OWP no. 293/2018 Page 7 of 15 orders passed must have sanctity. Exercise of suo motu power "at any time" only
 means that no specific period such as days, months or years are not (sic) prescribed
 reckoning from a particular date. But that does not mean that "at any time" should be
 unguided and arbitrary. In this view, "at any time" must be understood as within a
 reasonable time depending on the facts and circumstances of each case in the absence
 of prescribed period of limitation." 17. In the light of what is stated above we are of the view that the Division Bench of
 the High Court was right in affirming the view of the learned Single Judge of the High
 Court that the suo motu revision undertaken after a long lapse of time, even in the
 absence of any period of limitation was arbitrary and opposed to the concept of rule
 of law. 25. The legal position is fairly well settled by a long line of decisions of this Court which
 have laid down that even when there is no period of limitation prescribed for the
 exercise of any power, revisional or otherwise, such power must be exercised within a
 reasonable period. This is so even in cases where allegations of fraud have
 necessitated the exercise of any corrective power. 26. In one of the earlier decisions of this Court in S. B. Gurbaksh Singh v. Union of India ,
 this Court held that exercise of suo motu power of revision must also be within a
 reasonable time and that any unreasonable delay in the exercise may affect the
 validity. But what would constitute reasonable time would depend upon the facts of
 each case. 27. To the same effect is the decision of this Court in Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya
 Coolie Sangham v. K. Suresh Reddy , wherein this Court held that even in cases of fraud
 the revisional power must be exercised within a reasonable period and that several
 factors need to be kept in mind while deciding whether relief should be denied only on
 the ground of delay. The Court said: (SCC p. 677, para9). 28. To the same effect is the view taken by this Court in Sulochana Chandrakant
 Galande v. Pune Municipal transport, wherein this Court reiterated the legal position
 and held that the power to revise orders and proceedings cannot be exercised arbitrary
 and interminably. This Court observed: (SCC p. 476, para 28). 29. In State of H.P. v. Rajkumar Brijender Sing , this Court held that in the absence of
 any special circumstances a delay of 15 years in suo motu exercise of revisional power
 was impermissible as the delay was unduly long and unexplained. This Court observed: 30. We may also refer to the decision of this Court in Dehri Rohtas Light Railway Co.
 Ltd. v. District Board, Bhojpur , wherein the Court explained the legal position as under: 31. To sum up, delayed exercise of revisional jurisdiction is frowned upon because if
 actions or transactions were to remain forever open to challenge, it will mean
 avoidable and endless uncertainty in human affairs, which is not the policy of law.
 Because, even when there is no period of limitation prescribed for exercise of such
 powers, the intervening delay, may have led to creation of third-party rights, that
 cannot be trampled by a belated exercised of a discretionary power especially when
 no cogent explanation for the delay is in sight. Rule of law it is said must run closely
 with the rule of life. Even in cases where the orders sought to be revised are fraudulent,
 the exercise of power must be within a reasonable period of the discovery of fraud.
 Simply describing an act or transaction to be fraudulent will not extend the time for its
 correction to infinity; for otherwise the exercise of revisional power would itself be
 tantamount to a fraud upon the statue that vests such power in an authority. 9. The judicial precedent cited above does not support or reiterate the view

that a person who is slack, callous and remiss in rolling the law in his favour at

the opportune time can do so after a great deal of time subject to his whims and OWP no. 293/2018 Page 10 of 15 caprice. If such a situation is allowed to prevail, it will open a floodgate for

uncalled litigations which cannot be controlled by the authorities while hearing

and determining the revisions. Such a view, that a person filing a revision can

do so at his will at any moment of time without spelling out reasons as to why

he waited for pursuing the action for such a long time which did not meet the

test of reasonability will lead to disastrous consequences. Taking the instant

case, as an example it is repeated and reiterated here that, the respondent No.

5 filed a revision petition challenging the mutation which was attested more

than twenty years back, before the Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, who

referred the same to the Financial Commissioner (Rev), J&K, Srinagar, in gross

violation of the position of law. While the reference was pending before the

Financial Commissioner, (Revenue), J&K, Srinagar, the respondent No. 5 filed a

motion before the Tehsildar, Chadoora, seeking attestation of a fresh mutation.

The respondent no. 5 did not delineate any reason for this delay of more than

20 years caused in challenging the said mutation. In case any fraud was played

with her, the respondent no. 5 could have filed the revision without waiting for

this long period of twenty years. 10. If a statute does not prescribe the time limit for the exercise of revisional

power, that will not give the authority determining the matter, the power to

unsettle an order after a long time of 20 years. The power has to be exercised

within a reasonable time as per the law laid down in (2007) 11 SCC 363 and OWP no. 293/2018 Page 11 of 15 ordinarily it can be exercised within a period of three years and in no case

beyond a period of five years even where fraud is alleged. The passage of

considerable time, from the date of the attestation of the mutation had to be

taken into consideration and had to be given due weight while exercising the

revisional powers. 11. Looking at the petition of the petitioner from another perspective that is

the application of Shariat Act of 2007 in light of the law laid down by this Court

in LPA No.07/2010 titled " Ahad Sheikh v. Murad Ahmad Shah & others , on which

the the explicit reliance has been put in carving out a case for the respondent

no. 5, it needs must be said that the Shariat Act came into force in the year 2007

and it reads as under: 12. The question whether this Act is prospective or retrospective in nature is

no longer res. Integra. The fact that cannot be lost sight of it is that it applies to

the suits and the proceedings which were pending as on the date when the Act

came into force and it also applies to the suits and the proceedings filed after

that. What is to be understood is that the mutation proceedings are summary

in nature and a Mutating Officer and the Financial Commissioner are the Quasi

Judicial Authorities. The mutation is a fiscal entry. It does not confer any title

on any person and it is made for the upgradation of the records. The question

of title is open to be decided by the civil courts and the logic behind the

judgment of law cited above in incorporating the words "Suits and Proceedings" 13. The import of the application of Shariat Act, 2007, makes it abundantly

clear that from the date of its promulgation that is the year 2007, all questions

detailed in Section 3 have to be decided and determined under the Muslim

Personal Law (Shariat), where the parties are Muslims. The mutations here in

this case have been attested a long back, that is, on 23.04.1993. The judicial

precedent cited above lays in unequivocal terms that the Act will apply to all the

suits and proceedings which were pending on the date when the Act came into

force as also to the suits and proceedings filed after its enforcement. The suits

and proceedings which have been finally decided would not be affected by the

enactment of the Shariat Act , but if such a suit and proceedings will be pending

even in appeal on the date when the Act was brought into operation, the

application of law to such a case will be the Muslim Personal Law, if the other

conditions prescribed therein are fulfilled. 14. There is no doubt in saying that the Shariat Act, 2007, will apply to all the

mutations that are attested after the enactment of the Shariat Act 2007, but on

the plain phraseology of the Act, it will not apply to a mutation which has been

attested a long before it came into operation. Suits and proceedings as stated in

the judgment encompass within its operation and scope the suits filed before

the Civil Courts and the proceedings emanating there from like the execution

petitions, appeals or the proceedings initiated in the suit itself. The word "Suit"

as defined in the West's Encyclopedia of American law edition 2 is a generic OWP no. 293/2018 Page 14 of 15 term, of comprehensive significance, referring to any proceedings by one person

or persons against another or others in a Court of law in which the plaintiff

pursues the remedy that the law affords for the redress of any injury or the

enforcement of a right, whether at law or in Equity. A mutation is a fiscal entry

and may be a prima facie proof of the possession of the estate by the person in

whose favour it is attested. It does not as is repeated here decide the title which

has to be decided by the Civil Court. 15. In view of the proceeding analysis, the petition is allowed, as a corollary

to which, the impugned order of the learned Financial Commissioner passed in

file No. 790/FC-AP dated 24.05.2017, and impugned order of learned Divisional

Commissioner, Kashmir passed in file no. 408/Rev dated 21.10.2015, as also the

notice dated 30.11.2015 issued by the Tehsildar are set aside. 16. Disposed of accordingly along with the connected MP(s). (M. K. Hanjura)
 Judge
Srinagar
25/04.2018
N Ahmad OWP no. 293/2018 Page 15 of 15