MakeMyTrip (India) Pvt. Ltd. (in short MakeMyTrip) has filed the
present suit inter-alia praying for a decree of permanent injunction
restraining the defendants, their franchisees, affiliates, subsidiaries, licencees
and agents in any manner using the trademark GETMYTRIP infringing the
plaintiff's trademark MakeMyTrip, its domain name, logo and/or device
etc., amounting to passing off the defendant's goods, services and business CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 1 of 19 and/or business of the defendant as that of the plaintiff besides delivery up
and damages. 2. Claim of the plaintiff is that it is a private limited company registered
under the Companies Act, 1956 incorporated in the year 2000 having started
its business initially with airline ticket booking, however is now one of the
largest travel companies in India with its presence all across India and
several other countries. Initially, the plaintiff was incorporated with the
trade name "Travel by Web Private Limited" and later on 28th June, 2002 it
changed its name to the current name i.e. MakeMyTrip India Pvt. Ltd. Over
the years the plaintiff has expanded its business through its primary website
www.makemytrip.com and other technology including application based
mobile platforms etc. and offering extensive range of travel services and
products both in India and abroad including booking of air-ticket, rail ticket,
bus ticket, hotel reservation, car hire, domestic and international holiday
packages and ancillary travel requirements such as travel insurance etc. The
domain name makemytrip.com was registered on 8th May, 2000 in the name
of the founder of the plaintiff company Shri Deep Kalra. Plaintiff has
collaboration agreement with numerous travel companies and has been
conferred number of awards for its unmatched performance with its business
partners. Plaintiff has acquired and invested in well-known brands of the
industry to provide full spectrum service to its clients all across the globe
such as merger with Ibibo Group, investments in Bona Vita Technologies
etc. 3. It is claimed that MakeMyTrip is a coined and invented word which is
an essential feature of all the composite label or logo marks of the plaintiff
and due to extensive use now spanning almost 17 years MakeMyTrip marks CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 2 of 19 are synonymous with high standards of quality in respect of services
provided by the plaintiff. The composite use of "MY" device in a stylized
manner with other artistic elements and colour combinations of the
MakeMyTrip logo is highly distinctive. Plaintiff is the registered proprietor
of a number of MakeMyTrip marks and several other applications are
pending consideration. Further the plaintiff has got registered its trademark
MakeMyTrip in numerous other countries besides India and in several
countries, the applications are still pending. Plaintiff has also actively
sponsored various national and international events. Plaintiff has earlier also
filed suits before this Court wherein the plaintiff was granted ex-parte
injunctions and finally on settlement the suits were decreed in favour of the
plaintiff. Plaintiff has also placed on record its figures of the turn-over and
expenditures on advertising and promotional activities worldwide. 4. Plaintiff further claims that the defendant is also engaged in the
identical business of travel related services including but not limited to
booking and selling tickets, hotel reservations, arranging trips in India and
abroad. Sometime in April, 2017 plaintiff came to know through the
trademarks journal that the defendant had filed application for registration of
the trademark GETMYTRIP and infringing logo mark. The plaintiff filed
objections to the same in April, 2017 itself, carried out further investigation
on its own and came across the defendant's website namely
www.getmytrip.com and agent.getmytrip.com. It is contended that the
trademark and logo of the plaintiff "GETMYTRIP" is deceptively and
phonetically similar to the plaintiff's word mark "MakeMyTrip", thus
infringing the plaintiff's trademark and violating its rights under the Copyright Act as well. 5. When the suit came up before this Court for the first time on 25th
September, 2017 this Court restrained the defendants, its partners, directors,
shareholders, assignees and travel agents from selling, offering for sale,
advertising, directly or indirectly dealing in any of the services under the
mark GETMYTRIP or any other deceptively similar mark to that of the
plaintiff's registered trade names/marks. The defendant, its partners,
directors, shareholders, proprietors or assignees in business, franchisees,
affiliates, subsidiaries in licencees and agents have been also restrained from
using the domain name getmytrip.com. 6. On receipt of the notice defendant filed an application under Order
XXXIX Rule 4 CPC being IA 11871/2017 wherein notice was accepted by
the learned counsel for the plaintiff on 13th October, 2017 with directions to
file reply affidavit within one week and rejoinder affidavit within three days
thereafter and the matter was listed for 25th October, 2017. Since the
plaintiff filed the reply affidavit only on 23 rd October, 2017 defendant was
granted an opportunity to place on record additional documents. With the
consent of learned counsels for plaintiff and defendant arguments have been
heard on both the applications. 7. Case of the defendant in IA 11871/2017 under Order XXXIX Rule 4
CPC is that the plaintiff has concealed material facts i.e. the plaintiff had
prior knowledge of the predecessor-in-interest of the defendant using the
trademark GETMYTRIP and plaintiff had been doing business with the
predecessor-in-interest of the defendant being Hermes I Tickets Private
Limited under the mark GETMYTRIP since 2011. The plaintiff has also
used the services of the defendant under the mark GETMYTRIP. The
plaintiff is in fact a subscriber of the defendant's service on its website CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 4 of 19 www.getmytrip.com. Further the plaintiff is fully aware that the plaintiff
and defendant operate in entirely different spheres of activities i.e. plaintiff
operates in business to consumer (B2C Model) whereas the defendant
operates in business to business (B2B Model), thus there exists no scope of
confusion. Further the new venture of the defendant's business into B2C
model is under the trade name 'GOOMO" and not 'GETMYTRIP'. In fact
the defendant is properly known as GMT and the plaintiff to copy the same
has started calling itself as MMT. It is further contended that the plaintiff
has played fraud on the Court by misrepresentation and suppression of
material facts. Acquiescence, delay and latches also disentitle the plaintiff
an injunction in its favour. Thus the interim injunction in favour of the
plaintiff be vacated. Defendant also claims that it enjoys enormous good-
will and reputation as a travel platform and has received several notable
accolades/ awards. The sales figures of the defendant show its popularity
and goodwill. The defendant's trademark GETMYTRIP is written in a
distinctive and unique stylized manner. The trademark/ label GETMYTRIP
qualifies as a well-known trademark since it has been used continuously by
the defendant for its goods and services. 8. Defendant further claims that the trademark GETMYTRIP and
internet platform www.getmytrip.com to the knowledge of the plaintiff exits
since 2011 as the plaintiff is transacting huge volume of business since then
on its e-commerce platform i.e. www.getmygrip.com with the defendant and
also its predecessors-in-interest Hermes. Defendant has placed on record
table-wise summary of plaintiff availing the defendant's services. Screen
shot of e-mail dated 20th November, 2013 exchanged between the
representative of the plaintiff and the predecessor-in-interest of the CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 5 of 19 defendant showing that the plaintiff was transacting with the predecessor of
interest of the defendant on the same platform has also been placed on
record. It is the case of the defendant that the trademark/logo GETMYTRIP
and domain name www.getmytrip.com has been continuously used by the
defendant and its predecessor-in-interest as a travel platform solution for
organizing the airline services, train ticketing and largely unorganized
regional bus services, tier 2/ tier 3 hotels, car rental services and providing
the customer's/ travelers access to large markets and a more efficient ticket
distribution and reservation systems. Plaintiff cannot claim any proprietary
rights on the words "MyTrip". The defendant further forayed into the
Business to Consumer B2C trade under its mark "Goomo" and the
defendant's site for the said business has become an instant success and has
in fact generated approximately over ₹16-17 crores of sales monthly. So as
to stifle a healthy competition, the plaintiff's have filed the present suit to
affect the defendant's later B2C venture under the mark 'Goomo' which is
directly competing with the plaintiff's business under the mark
'MakeMyTrip'. 9. In support of the contentions based on pleadings in the suit as noted
above, learned counsel has relied upon the decisions reported as Midas
Hygiene Industries (P) Ltd & Anr. Vs. Sudhir Bhatia & Ors. (2004) 3 SCC
90; Vardhman Properties Ltd. Vs. M/s Vardhman Realtech Pvt. Ltd. (2016)
231 DLT 535; M/s. Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s Stationary Products
Co. Suit No. 941/1988 dated 23.1.1999; Shri Pankaj Goel Vs. M/s Dabur
India Ltd. (FAO(OS) 82/2008 dated 04.07.2008 and M/s. Power Control
Appliances Vs. Sumeet Machines Pvt. Ltd. (1994) 2 SCC 448. 10. Learned counsel for the defendant distinguishing the decisions referred above has relied upon M/s Power Control Appliances & Ors. Vs.
Sumeet Machines Pvt. Ltd. (1994) 2 SCC 448; Wheels India Vs. Nirmal
Singh & Ors. 2010 SCC Online Del 2852; Lintech Electronics (P) Ltd. &
Anr. Vs. Marvel Engineering Co. & Anr. 1995 ( 35) DRJ 11 and
S.P.Chengalvaraya Naidu Vs. Jagannath & Ors. (1994) 1 SCC 1. 11. Marks of the plaintiff and defendant are as under: 12. Claim of the defendant is that defendant has acquired the mark/ name/
brand GETMYTRIP and its formatives and domain name
www.getmytrip.com along with the goodwill associated therewith from its
predecessor-in-interest i.e. Hermes I Tickets Private Limited in December
2015. Further Hermes I Tickets Private Limited has been in business for a
long period of time and still continues to operate and manage the internet
platform website www.getmytrip.com and agent relationship on behalf of
the defendant company, Thus the defendant being the successor-in-interest
of Hermes which was using the mark/ name/ brand GETMYTRIP and the
domain name www.getmytrip.com, was in business with the plaintiff which
the plaintiff cannot deny at least from 21st September, 2011 when Hermes
and the plaintiff entered into an API agreement wherein Hermes was using
the platform GETMYTRIP. 13. For the facts noted above though learned counsel for the plaintiff
vehemently argued that merely because the plaintiff has not filed any suit
against Hermes using GETMYTRIP since 2011, the same cannot be a
ground for not entertaining a challenge to the user of the defendant, it would
be material to note the cause of action pleaded in Para 50 of the plaint as
under: 14. At this stage, it would also be appropriate to note the reliefs sought in
the suit as under: (Rupees One Crore only) or any such amount as found due in
 favour of the plaintiff; g) An order awarding costs of this suit to the plaintiff; h) Any other and further relief(s) as this Hon'ble Court may
 deem fit and proper to meet the ends of justice." 15. Thus cause of action to the plaintiff is use of the trademark
'GETMYTRIP' and domain name www.getmytrip.com and the plaintiff CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 10 of 19 claims reliefs not only against the defendant but its franchisees, affiliates,
subsidiaries, licencees and agents as well, Hermes being one of the agents of
the defendant. Plaintiff in its reply to IA 11871/2017 has admitted its
dealing with Hermes and thereby its knowledge of the use of the trademark
GETMYTRIP and the internet platform www.getmytrip.com since
September, 2011. Further the API agreement dated 21st September, 2011
copy whereof the defendant has placed on record is an agreement between
the Hermes and MakeMyTrip. 16. No doubt, defendant claimed user in the application since 2016,
however the fact remains that plaintiff with the same trademark and domain
name i.e. GETMYTRIP and www.getmytrip.com respectively had been
dealing with the Hermes which is the predecessor-in-interest of the
defendant at least since 2011, thus had knowledge of this trademark and
domain name being used. 17. Learned counsel for the plaintiff vehemently argued that even
assuming plaintiff was aware of Hermes using the trademark GETMYTRIP
and the domain name www.getmytrip.com, mere non-filing of the suit or
challenging the use of trademark and the domain by Hermes would not
entail the said protection qua the defendant as has been settled by this Court
in Vardhman Properties Limited (supra). It is contended that acquiescence
at best can be limited to use of infringing mark by Hermes in the B2B space
and there is no material to suggest that the plaintiff's rights were prejudiced
by the use of Hermes use of infringing mark in the B2C space. 18. In Vardhman Properties (supra) this Court relied upon the Supreme
Court decision in Midas Hygiene (supra) and held that the Courts would be
entirely wrong in refusing the relief of injunction merely on the basis of CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 11 of 19 delay and latches. In Midas Hygiene (supra) Supreme Court laid down that
in case of infringement either of trademark or of copyright normally an
injunction must follow and mere delay in bringing action is not sufficient to
defeat grant of injunction and it becomes all the more necessary to grant
injunction if it is prima facie shown that the adoption of the mark itself was
dishonest. 19. In the present case the issue is not of delay and latches only but of
acquiescence where the plaintiff to its knowledge permitted continued user
by Hermes of the trademark GETMYTRIP and domain name
www.getmytrip.com, however now to its transferee-in-interest i.e. the
plaintiff has objection to it on the sole ground that Hermes never operated in
B2C domain but in B2B domain. In this regard it would be appropriate to
note the documents filed by the defendant placing on record copies of the
screenshot of websites of Hermes dated 10th January, 2012 showing its B2C
user falsifying the claim of the plaintiff that Hermes was not operating in the
B2C space. 20. In National Bell Co. Vs. Gupta Goods Manufacturing Co. (P) Ltd. &
Anr. AIR 1971 SC 898 the Supreme Court held that if a registered proprietor
of a mark ignores repeated infringements of its mark than it can even be
considered as an abandonment of its mark. The decision in Pankaj Goel
(supra) relied by learned counsel for the plaintiff has no application to the
facts of the case for the reason in the said decision the Court came to the
conclusion that the conduct of the defendant was fraudulent. However, in
the case in hand plaintiff was aware of the use of the trademark
GETMYTRIP since 2011 and admittedly since 2013. Thus despite the use CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 12 of 19 of the trademark GETMYTRIP plaintiff continued its business dealings with
Hermes which is the predecessor-in-interest of the defendant. 21. The law on acquiescence is well settled by the Supreme Court in the
decision reported as ( 1994) 2 SCC 448 Power Control Appliances v. Sumeet
Machines (P) Ltd. wherein it observed: Therefore, acquiescence is one facet of delay. If the plaintiff
 stood by knowingly and let the defendants build up an important
 trade until it had become necessary to crush it, then the
 plaintiffs would be stopped by their acquiescence. If the
 acquiescence in the infringement amounts to consent, it will be
 a complete defence as was laid down in Mouson (J.G.) & Co. v.
 Boehm [(1884) 26 Ch D 406] . The acquiescence must be such
 as to lead to the inference of a licence sufficient to create a new
 right in the defendant as was laid down in Rodgers v. Nowill
 [(1847) 2 De GM&G 614 : 22 LJ KCH 404] . 27. The law of acquiescence is stated by Cotton, L.J. in
 Proctor v. Bannis [(1887) 36 Ch D 740] as under: In the same case Bowen, L.J. said: 28. In Devidoss and Co. [AIR 1941 Mad 31 : (1940) 2 MLJ
 793 : ILR 1941 Mad 300] at pages 33 and 34 the law is stated
 thus: In the same case, but on appeal Lord Russel, C.J. said
 [Rowland v. Michell, (1897) 14 RPC 37, 43] at p. 43: 29. This is the legal position. Again in Halsbury's Laws of
 England, Fourth Edn., Vol. 24 at paragraph 943 it is stated
 thus: 22. It is thus settled that the registered proprietor of trademark is not
expected to pursue each and every insignificant infringer who is of no
consequence to his business, however in none of the judgments it has been
held that inaction against an infringer who has lot of business competing
with that of the plaintiff would not amount to acquiescence. In the present
case, Hermes was holding a substantial share in the market place. It cannot
be said that Hermes was an insignificant infringer. As noted above Hermes
was also working in B2C space thus competing with plaintiff's business. 23. Contention of learned counsel for the plaintiff that since defendant is
now operating in B2C space and affecting its business is liable to be rejected
for the reason defendant has now entered into B2C space but under the trade
mark "GOOMO". Thus, the plaintiff cannot on this pretext seek injunction
against the defendant. 24. Learned counsel for the defendant has vehemently argued that the
plaintiff deliberately suppressed the API agreement between the plaintiff and CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 17 of 19 Hermes which was using the trademark in order to obtain an ex-parte ad-
interim injunction, whereas learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the
non-placing of the API agreement between plaintiff and Hermes before the
Court was not relevant and had no material bearing on the grant of ad-
interim injunction. 25. A perusal of the plaint would show that there is no mention
whatsoever about other entities such as Hermes using the trademark
GETMYTRIP. Plaintiff in the plaint has placed API agreement with third
parties which have no relevance to the facts of the case but failed to place on
record API agreement with Hermes and other material which would show
that Hermes was using the impugned trademark. Even assuming that the
plaintiff was not aware of the fact that defendant was the successor-in-
interest of Hermes and it was not for the plaintiff to have found out the
agreements between Hermes and defendant; the plaintiff having acquiesced
user of the trademark GEYMYTRIP and domain name www.getmytrip.com
cannot now claim injunction against the successor in interest in respect of
the said trademark. 26. Plaintiff also claims the copyright in the stylized manner of writing
'MY' in plaintiff's trademark, however the defendant's trademark does not
use 'MY' in the same or similar stylized manner and is also characterized by
three upward arrows in yellow, dark blue and orange colours at the end of
'GETMYTRIP' which is not there in plaintiff's trade mark. 27. Defendant has also placed on record material to show that even after
the defendant acquired business of Hermes, plaintiff continued dealing with
the trademark GETMYTRIP and the domain name www.getmytrip.com.
Whether the said continuance of business was for the reason that Hermes CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 18 of 19 was using the mark GETMYTRIP or not is an issue to be decided after the
parties have lead their respective evidence. Sufficient at this stage would be
to note that in view of the conduct of the plaintiff suppressing material facts,
in the cause of action the grievance of the plaintiff being qua use of the
infringing mark and not the party using it, the plaintiff's claim of injunction
being not only against the defendant but also its franchisees, agents etc., and
having permitted Hermes to use the trademark GETMYTRIP for a long
time, this Court finds that no case for grant of interim injunction in favour of
plaintiff pending the suit is made out. Consequently, the interim order dated
25th September, 2017 against the defendants is vacated. However, to protect
the interests of the plaintiff, defendant will maintain its account statements
and will submit the same in sealed cover after every six months. 28. IA No.11871/2017 is disposed of and IA No.11225/2017 is dismissed. (MUKTA GUPTA)
 JUDGE
DECEMBER 13, 2017
'ga' CS(COMM) 643/2017 Page 19 of 19