SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I don't get this "Us taxpayers are the clowns" argument
DATE: 2024-04-03
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1bummwz/i_dont_get_this_us_taxpayers_are_the_clowns/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have seen multiple comments here, and on Twitter about how the government treats taxpayers as clowns and how paying tax is a scam and what not, and I seriously don't get it.

First of all, as someone who studied in an government college, let me thank the taxpayers (direct or indirect) of the generation before me. If not for taxes from their hard earned money, I would have never even dreamt of getting a degree in Engineering and subsequently get opportunity to study abroad. Yes, I had to take education loan, but the government paid most of my interest and I only had to return the original amount plus some interest.

The taxes you pay are not directly used for providing facilities for you, they are utilised for the facilities or infrastructure, you might get to enjoy in 20 years. Yes, it hurts when you pay that 30% tax, but see someone who does scams and hoards black money and not pay tax at all. But who is that person? If you are from rural areas, We all have seen the conditions while growing up and in most if not all, it has gotten much better in last 15 years. I distinctly remember having access to electricity for 3-5 hours a day while growing up and having to study in lantern/candle during the night in my school days, and during the last trip back home, I think I only faced 1/1.5 hours of electricity cut a day at max. I remember roads being extremely bad to go to the nearest city, well, it still is, in a lot of places, but a major part of is it now quite good. I don't feel my skeleton getting an alignment check when I took a shared auto the last time. Don't get me wrong, I still blame the government for poor road construction, but I also can't help but wonder on don't we share the blame as well? Those engineers, contractors, sub-contractors, site in-charge, they don't just drop from heaven, they come from the same society that you and I grew up with. Why is it that we are only blaming the government for failure, but not holding ourselves accountable to the culture we are promoting in our kids who will be in these positions? Is it really wise for us to blame the government for not utilising our tax money to the best possible use while we are also the ones who encourage and normalize bribery amongst our peers who are in a government agency?

It's been only 60 years since our PM had to ask on All India Radio that we should give up on one time meal, if we can, to ensure that others can also eat. The constant complaint from these so-called "I'm made to feel like a clown for paying tax" feels so tone-deaf to all of it. Either they are just entitled twats who just seem to hop on the bandwagon of "Oh, I pay tax, why don't I get special treatment" train or we failed as a society to educate these dimwits on how tax system works.

Before you berate me for being abroad and not paying taxes myself, I did pay it when I was working back home, and will pay again when I am back in a few years.