The Delhi High Court has ordered Google and X to remove social media posts claiming that Anjali Birla, daughter of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, passed the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams on her first try owing to her father’s powerful position, according to a report by Bar & Bench on July 23, 2024.

Anjali Birla, an Indian Railway Personnel Service (IRPS) officer, has sought action against 16 X accounts, including the X profile “Dhruv Rathee (Parody)”, a parody account of YouTuber Dhruv Rathee, in her defamation suit. The Court has directed the platforms to take down the alleged defamatory posts within 24 hours.

The Maharashtra Cyber Cell has registered an FIR against the accounts in question based on Birla’s complaint under Sections 78 [stalking], 79 [insulting modesty of a woman], 318(2) [cheating], 352 [insult with intent to provoke], 356(2) [punishment for defamation], 353(2) [punishment for making false statements] and 3(5) [liability for an act motivated by common intention] of the Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita Act, 2023 along with Section 66 (C) [punishment for identity theft] of the Information Technology Act, 2000, as reported by Livelaw .

Further, the Court stated that Birla was able to make a prima facie case showing that the posts were defamatory. Notably, the Court has also restrained John Doe defendants or anonymous entities from posting, circulating, tweeting or retweeting posts concerning the issue.

In this case, the Court order also prohibits unknown persons from posting anything in the context of the matter. This overbroad restriction raises concerns about limiting one’s future free speech rights, thereby causing potential censorship of legitimate content as well as a genuine assessment or criticism of a public officer’s work.

In the defamation cases against Saket Gokhale and Arvind Kejriwal , the Delhi HC had emphasised on the social media reach, identity, and level of influence of the publisher in determining the impact of a tweet on the reputation of a complainant. Considering this, it is worth questioning whether every publisher of an allegedly defamatory post has enough social influence to damage a complainant’s reputation.

Defamation-related charges have often resulted in stifling dissent, restriction of free speech, and self-censorship. Commenting on the impact of criminal defamation on free speech, MediaNama Founder-Editor Nikhil Pahwa had pointed out that people use the internet both as a means of personal communication and publishing, and often, there is little difference between the two. The myopic view of considering communication as publishing for the public opens up a large number of Indians to defamation cases.

Secondly, social media platforms are often used by individuals to report content that becomes news. Restricting future speech can hinder people’s access to important information that can be used as useful tips by journalists, fact-checkers, and users to combat false or inaccurate information

Have something to add to the story? Is there a story you would like us to cover? Leave an anonymous tip here , or ask us to file an RTI here .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event