The Bombay High Court will be hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) that has sought the court to direct state and Central Governments to prevent cyberattacks on official websites of the Maharashtra Government. According to a LiveLaw report, the petition was filed by a Information Technology Consultant and Visiting Professor of Law, who alleged negligence on part of the government in securing their websites.

The petitioner stated that he had discovered compromised government websites, upon which he had called the Maharashtra Cyber Helpline number to make a report. However, the Helpline allegedly refused him, stating that they only accepted complaints related to personal injury and financial fraud. He also claimed that even the National Cyber Crime Helpline refused to take up the complaint and that he received no response from the Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-In).

The petition argues that government websites have come under attack due to inadequate security measures and unmonitored cyber infrastructure, which has caused some websites to redirect visitors to gambling websites that attempt to collect their personal data. It also contends that government websites lack sufficient security measures like web application firewalls, anti-virus software, intrusion detection/prevention and anomaly detection software. The websites also run on an allegedly outdated Content Management System, allowing cybercriminals to inject malicious code.

The petition expresses the fear that compromised government websites could allow cybercriminals to prey on ordinary citizens through phishing attacks, digital arrest, fake e-challan payments and fake government notices. It urges the court to direct the government to take steps to block the infected websites and ensure that such attacks do not occur again in the future. It also asks the state government to establish a cyber task force and for the police to investigate the matter and register FIRs against those responsible.

There have been several instances of government websites coming under attack in the past, especially from gambling operations. Last year in November, a Thai gambling platform called U31 reportedly hacked the official website for the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. Visitors to the website saw only the platform’s banner, instead of the ministry’s own content.

In the same month, online betting brand Piraslot hacked the website of senior BJP leader and former Union Minister Vijay Goel. This came after his sustained criticism of online betting. The hack occurred a day after Goel, alongside other politicians, launched a campaign against online gambling. He stated that the industry had the potential to create financial distress and “push families into crisis.” Goel has since filed a First Information Report (FIR) against the hack.

A study by the Data Security Council of India (DSCI) and cybersecurity firm Seqrite stated that India faced approximately 370 million malware attacks at a rate of 702 such detections per minute in 2024.

In 2022, former IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnav disclosed that 5o websites belonging to the Union government had suffered cyber attacks while governmental organisations had reported a total of eight data breaches.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event