1. The plaintiff has filed the present suit against the
defendant seeking relief of mandatory injunction for
direction to the defendant not to misuse the 4 signed blank
papers, 5 photographs and 1 original Aadhaar Card of the Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.1 of 15 plaintiff in any manner and for a further direction to return
the aforesaid documents to the plaintiff. 2. The exact prayer made in the plaint of the present
suit, is reproduced below:- 3. In order to justify the grant of the aforesaid
reliefs/prayer, it is inter-alia pleaded in the plaint of the
present suit that the plaintiff and the defendant are cousin
brothers and have had cordial relations with each other until
to the filing of the present suit; that the plaintiff is a E-
Rickshaw driver and plying the same on rental basis from
Mandoli Chungi to GTB Hospital; that the defendant had
advised the plaintiff to purchase a new E-Rickshaw through
him as the defendant had portrayed himself to have direct Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.2 of 15 relations with many financiers in Delhi; that in the month of
July, 2016, the defendant had called the plaintiff to meet
him at Mandoli Chungi, Near Flyover; that the defendant
had assured the plaintiff that he will not be required for
making any representation before any of the finance
companies and in lieu thereof, he had obtained the
signatures of the plaintiff on three blank papers, five
passport size photos and original Aadhaar card; that after
obtaining aforesaid documents, the defendant had made a
demand of Rs.17,000/- from the plaintiff which the plaintiff
had got arranged by calling his his younger brother, namely,
Sh. Dharmender and the aforesaid amount was also given to
the defendant on the pretext of getting an E-Rcikshaw
financed for the plaintiff; that after obtaining the aforesaid
documents and the monetary amount from the plaintiff, the
defendant did not contact the plaintiff nor gave any
satisfactory answer to the plaintiff in respect of the finance
of a new E-Rickshaw; that on 01.09.2016, the plaintiff had
visited the house of the defendant which led to a quarrel
initiated by the defendant; that the defendant had called the
police and the plaintiff was taken to Seemapuri Police
Station where in the presence of the concerned police
officials, the plaintiff was forced to put his signatures on a
blank paper which also is in possession of the defendant;
that depsite serveral demands and requests, the defendant
has not returned the aforesaid documents to the plaintiff and Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.3 of 15 on account of the conduct of the defendant, the plaintiff had
sent a legal demand notice dated 04.10.2017 to the
defendant demanding the aforesaid documents; that despite
service of the aforesaid legal demand notice on 05.10.2017,
the defendant has not replied to the same; that aggrieved by
the actions of the defendant, the plaintiff has filed the
present suit for mandatory injunction against him. 4. The defendant has contested the present suit by
filing the written statement. In order to defend the present
suit, the defendant has inter-alia pleaded in his written
statement that he had neither advised the plaintiff to
purchase a new E-Rickshaw through him nor he had at
anytime represented himself to have direct relations with
any financier in Delhi; that on 01.09.2016, the plaintiff had
visited the house of the defendant in order to threaten him
to withdraw a complaint filed by the latter against the real
brother of the plaintiff, namely, Sh. Tinku Kumar; that the
defendant in retaliation to the threat extended by the
plaintiff had called the local police station and upon their
arrival, we both had visited the police station where a
compromise had been arrived between himself and the
plaintiff; that the present suit has been filed by the plaintiff
only to presurize the defendant into withdrawing the
aforesaid complaint filed by him against his real brother,
namely, Sh. Tinku Kumar; that no such transaction by way Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.4 of 15 of handing over any passport sized photo, Aadhaar Card,
four blank signed papers and an amount of Rs.17,000/- by
the plaintiff to the defendant had ever taken place. 5. In the replication qua the written statement of the
defendant, the plaintiff has made the necessary denials,
reiterated and reaffirmed the contents of the plaint. 6. On the basis of the aforesaid pleadings of the
parties, the following issues were framed by a Ld.
Predecessor Judge, on 24.08.2022:- 7. During the trial of this suit, two witness viz. PW1,
Sh. Jitender Kumar and PW2, Sh. Dharmender were
examined in support of the case of the plaintiff and one
witness viz. DW1, Sh. Sanjay Sharma was examined in
support of the case of the defendant. The testimonies of the
aforesaid witnesses are not being discussed, at this stage of
this judgment, for the sake of brevity. 8. Final arguments on behalf of the plaintiff were
addressed by Sh. K. P. Singh, Ld. Advocate for the plaintiff Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.5 of 15 on 23.01.2024. Since none had appeared on behalf of the
defendant to address final arguments, liberty was granted to
the defendant to file written submissions within a week
from the date of final arguments. No written submissions
have been filed on behalf of the defendant till date. 9. The issue wise findings, in this case, is as
follows:- 10. The onus to prove this issue was upon the plaintiff.
In respect of this issue, the case of the plaintiff is that the
defendant is his cousin brother and both have had cordial
relations with each other until the filing of the present suit.
The plaintiff is a E-Rickshaw driver and plying the same on
rental basis from Mandoli Chungi to GTB Hospital. The
defendant had advised the plaintiff to purchase a new E-
Rickshaw through him as he had portrayed himself to have
direct relations with many financiers in Delhi. In the month
of July, 2016, the defendant had called the plaintiff to meet
him at Mandoli Chungi, Near Flyover with the assurance
that the plaintiff will not have to make any representation
before any of the finance companies and in lieu thereof, the Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.6 of 15 defendant had obtained the signatures of the plaintiff on
three blank papers, five passport size photos and original
Aadhaar card. After obtaining the aforesaid documents, the
defendant had made a demand of Rs.17,000/- from the
plaintiff which the plaintiff had got arranged by calling his
his younger brother, namely, Sh. Dharmender. The aforesaid
amount was also given to the defendant on the pretext of
getting an E-Rickshaw financed for the plaintiff. After
obtaining the aforesaid documents and the monetary
amount from the plaintiff, the defendant did not contact the
plaintiff nor gave any satisfactory answer to the plaintiff in
respect of the finance of a new E-Rickshaw. On 01.09.2016,
the plaintiff had visited the house of the defendant which
led to a quarrel initiated by the defendant. The defendant
had called the police and the plaintiff was taken to
Seemapuri Police Station where in the presence of the
concerned police officials, the plaintiff was forced to put his
signatures on a blank paper which also is in possession of
the defendant. Depsite serveral demands and requests, the
defendant has not returned the aforesaid documents to the
plaintiff and on account of the conduct of the defendant, the
plaintiff had sent a legal demand notice dated 04.10.2017 to
the defendant demanding the aforesaid documents. Despite
service of the aforesaid legal demand notice on 05.10.2017,
the defendant has not replied to the same and aggrieved by
the actions of the defendant, the plaintiff has filed the Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.7 of 15 present suit for mandatory injunction against him. Per
Contra, the case of the defendant qua this issue is that he
had neither advised the plaintiff to purchase a new E-
Rickshaw through him nor he had at anytime represented
himself to have direct relations with any financier in Delhi.
On 01.09.2016, the plaintiff had visited the house of the
defendant in order to threaten him to withdraw a complaint
filed by the latter against the real brother of the plaintiff,
namely, Sh. Tinku Kumar and the defendant in retaliation to
the threat extended by the plaintiff had called the local
police station. Upon the arrival of the police, both the
plaintiff and the defendant had visited the police station
where a compromise had been arrived between himself and
the plaintiff. The present suit has been filed by the plaintiff
only to presurize the defendant into withdrawing the
aforesaid complaint filed by him against his real brother,
namely, Sh. Tinku Kumar. No such transaction by way of
handing over any passport sized photo, Aadhaar Card, four
blank signed papers and an amount of Rs.17,000/- by the
plaintiff to the defendant had ever taken place. 11. In order to prove their respective cases qua this
issue, two witnesses, PW1, Sh. Jitender Kumar and PW2,
Sh. Dharmender were examined in support of the case of
the plaintiff and one witness viz. DW1, Sh. Sanjay Sharma
was examined in support of the case of the defendant. Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.8 of 15 12. During examination in chief, PW1, Sh. Jitender
Kumar has deposed in line with the plaint of this suit and
tendered in evidence documents viz., legal notice dated
04.10.2017, Ex.PW1/1 and postal receipt, Ex.PW1/2.
During cross examination, PW1, Sh. Jitender Kumar has
inter-alia deposed that the defendant is his cousin brother.
He was not made to sign on any blank papers at the police
station and had rather voluntarily arrived at a compromise
with the defendant at the police station. He has further
deposed that the defendant is not engaged in the business of
providing loan facility to individuals. The defendant is
operating a sewing machine. He has further deposed that
there was no witness to the handing over of the documents
and money to the defendant. He had communicated the fact
of handing over the documents to his younger brother,
namely, Sh. Dharmender. He had not applied for any loan
for purchase of an E-Rickshaw prior to July, 2016. 13. During examination in chief, PW2, Sh. Dharmender has deposed in line with the plaint of this suit
and tendered in evidence his evidence by way of affidavit,
Ex.PW2/A and his Aadhaar Card, Ex.PW2/1(OSR). During
cross examination, PW2, Sh. Dharmender has inter-alia
deposed that the defendant had promised the plaintiff that
he would finance an E-Rickshaw for the benefit of the
plaintiff in his presence in the month of June-July, 2016. Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.9 of 15 The said promised was made by the defendant in his
presence at Mandoli Chungi, Delhi at about 12:30 PM and
for this purpose, the defendant had obtained the original
Aadhaar Card, four signed blank papers and four
photographs from the plaintiff in his presence. The
defendant has filed a false criminal complaint under Section
138 of the NI Act against his elder brother prior to the
present transaction. In addtion to the aforesaid documents,
he had given an amount of Rs.17,000/- to the plaintiff
which the latter had handed over to the defendant in
relation to the promise of the defendant for procurement a
loan for purchase of an E-Rickshaw on behalf of the
plaintiff. 14 During examination in chief, DW1, Sh. Sanjay has
deposed in line with the written statement and tendered in
evidence his affidavit, Ex.DW1/A. During cross-
examination, DW1, Sh. Sanjay has stated that the plaintiff
is his cousin brother. The plaintiff along with certain other
individuals had come to his house on 01.09.2016 in order to
threaten him to withdraw a complaint filed by him against
the plaintiff's brother. On the relevant date, he had called
the local police and both the plaintiff and the defendant had
entered into a compromise upon reaching the police station. Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.10 of 15 15. One of the cardinal principles of civil law is that in
civil cases burden of proof is that of balance of probability
and not that of proof beyond reasonable doubt. It is equally
well settled that the plaintiff's case must stand on his own
legs and any lacuna in the defendant's case cannot be a
ground for granting relief to the plaintiff. Upon examining
the probative value of the aforesaid competing evidence
lead by the parties qua this issue, I find that this issue is
liable to be decided against the plaintiff and in favour of the
defendant because of multiple reasons. Firstly, this issue is
liable to be decided against the plaintiff and in favour of the
defendant because the case of the plaintiff as set out in the
plaint suffers from various material contradictions when
examined in light of his testimony during cross-
examination. To highlight on the issue, the plaintiff has
averred in the plaint that the defendant had obtained
signatures of the plaintiff on 4 blank papers and at the same
time, he had handed over 5 passport size photographs and
original Aaadhaar card to the defendant. After handing over
of the same, he had given an amount of Rs.17,000/- to the
defendant in cash which he had arranged by calling his
brother namely, Dharmender at the place of occurrence.
While on the other hand, the defendant in his cross-
examination as PW1 had stated that he had handed over his
Aaadhaar card, five photographs and an amount of
Rs.17,000/- to the defendant at a place near to Mandoli
Chungi road, Nand Nagri, Delhi. Here, his deposition is Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.11 of 15 silent with respect to any of his signatures obtained by the
defendant on blank papers. The plaintiff has further deposed
during his cross-examination that there was no individual
present at the relevant time, which he can examine as a
witness to his support his case of having handed over
certain documents and money to the defendant and he had
himself later communicated to his brother namely, Sh,
Dharmender that he had handed over certain documents to
the defendant. This part of his testimony is in contradiction
to his own case in the plaint where he asserts that he had
called his brother to a place near to Mandoli Chungi road,
Nand Nagri, Delhi and in whose presence he had given an
amount of Rs.17,000/- in cash to the defendant. Apart from
the aforesaid major contradictions pointed out hereinabove,
certain more inconsistences that are pertinent to observe
need be highlighted to ascertain the veracity and
truthfulness of the case the plaintiff. The plaintiff has
admitted during his cross-examination that he had entered
into a written compromise with the defendant at the police
station on 01.09.2016 wherein he had put his initials
voluntarily while on the other hand, the plaintiff has averred
in his plaint that he was made to sign on certain blank
papers by the police officials at the police station on the
relevant date. The pleadings of the plaintiff in the plaint
itself differs with respect to the number of papers on which
he had affixed his signatures as in para 6 of the plaint, he
avers that he had signed three blank papers while in Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.12 of 15 subsequent paragraphs, he has alleged to have signed on 4
blank papers. 16. Secondly, this issue is liable to be decided against
the plaintiff and in favour of the defendant because the
testimony of PW2, Sh. Dharmender is liable to discarded as
hearsay as the plaintiff has himself stated in his cross-
examination that he had himself communicated to PW2 that
he had handed over certain documents and money to the
defendant as there was no witness present at the relevant
time. Since, the PW2 himself was not stated to have been
present at the time of transaction in question by the plaintiff
during his cross-examination, accordingly, the testimony of
PW2 is not creditworthy and liable to discarded as such.
PW2 further being the real brother of the plaintiff is an
interested witness and his testimony is tainted with major
contradictions. PW2 during his testimony has deposed that
he was a witness to the handing over of 4 blank signed
papers, 4 photographs, original Aaadhaar card and
Rs.17,000/- to the defendant while on the other hand, the
plaintiff has averred in his plaint that the PW2 had arrived
at the scene only after the plaintiff had called him for
Rs.17,000/- and the alleged documents were handed prior in
time. Additionally, the testimony of PW2 is rendered
unworthy of credit when the plaintiff himself during his
cross-examination deposes that no witness was present at Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.13 of 15 the relevant time to witness the transaction in question
between the plaintiff and the defendant. 17. Thirdly, this issue is liable to be decided against
the plaintiff and in favour of the defendant because the
plaintiff has deposed that the defendant operates a sewing
machine and is not in the business of providing or assisting
in procurement of loans. This further, makes the case of the
plaintiff highly improbable that the defendant would invite
the plaintiff to procure a loan for E-Rickshaw through him,
when admittedly he had not gotten any loan document
signed from him. 18. In view of the aforesaid findings, this issue is
decided against the plaintiff and in favour of the defendant.
It is held that the plaintiff has not been able to discharge the
initial burden of proving that he had handed over 4 blank
signed papers, 5 photographs and original Aaadhaar card to
the defendant at a place near to Mandoli Chungi road, Nand
Nagri, Delhi in the month of July, 2016 by leading cogent
evidence to this effect. It is thus held that the plaintiff is not
entitled to a relief of mandatory injunction against the
defendant for direction to the latter to return 4 blank signed
papers, 5 photographs and original Aahdar card. RELIEF Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.14 of 15 19. As a net result of the aforesaid findings, the
present suit filed on behalf of the plaintiff and against the
defendant is dismissed, leaving the parties to bear their own
cost. 20. After preparation of the decree sheet by the
Reader, the file shall be consigned to the record room. Announced in open Court (Aman Kumar Sharma)
today on 31st January, 2024 CJ-02/Shahdara District
 Karkardooma Courts/Delhi Civil Suit No.1244/17 Jitender Kumar Vs. Sanjay Sharma Page No.15 of 15