Hon'ble Jaspreet Singh, J. Hon'ble Subhash Vidyarthi, J. (Per: Jaspreet Singh, J.)
 
 	This judgment has been divided into segments to facilitate analysis. These are:- 7. Looking into the gravity of the questions referred to this Full Bench and its ramifications, this Court apart from hearing the learned counsel for the parties had also invited the members of the Bar to address the Court on the issues before it. 8. Sri Anurag Narain Srivastava, learned counsel appearing for the writ petitioners canvassed the proposition that under the Act of 2007, the Authorities have the right to pass an order of eviction in befitting cases. This proposition is also supported by the learned Standing Counsel Sri Nishant Shukla. Another member of the Bar namely Sri Abhinav Pankaj, Advocate also supported the aforesaid proposition as canvassed by the learned counsel for the writ-petitioners and the State. 9. On the other hand Sri Apoorva Tiwari, learned member of the Oudh Bar Association and Sri Sudhanshu Chauhan, learned counsel who usually appears for the Union of India canvassed the proposition that under the Act of 2007, there is no specific power conferred on the Authorities to pass any order of eviction. The Rules framed under the Act also do not confer any such power and in absence of any source of power, the Tribunal being an Authority of limited jurisdiction cannot exercise such powers to order an eviction. B. Submissions on Behalf of the Petitioners:- 10. Sri Anurag Narain Srivastava, learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that as the title of the Act of 2007 suggests the Act was primarily promulgated not only for the maintenance but also for the welfare of the parents and senior citizens and in order to fulfill the objects of the Act as well as to create a robust system for providing maintenance and welfare for the parents and senior citizens, the Authorities under the Act of 2007 are conferred with ample powers to pass such orders as may be necessary and required to protect the right of residence of the parents and senior citizens and to enable them to live with dignity and peace. The Authorities in order to achieve this laudable objects of the Act of 2007, are empowered to pass appropriate orders including an order of eviction of children or relatives, as the case may be, if the same is inevitable for making the relief granted to such senior citizen/parent more relevant and meaningful. 11. It was further submitted that the scheme of the Act of 2007 is such that the forum of appeal is provided only for the senior citizen or the parent and it does not give a right to the children or the respondent in the complaint before the Maintenance Tribunal to avail such a forum of appeal. However, the Appellate Tribunal while exercising the powers of appeal can pass appropriate orders including an order of eviction to ensure that the maintenance which had been claimed by the parent/senior citizen is given a meaningful expression since the term maintenance as defined in the Act of 2007 is expansive and it inter alia includes a right of residence. Hence, a restrictive meaning should not be ascribed and in order to ensure that the senior citizen/parent who has a right of residence accruing under the Act, can reside with dignity then it necessarily requires that the Appellate Tribunal is clothed with the power to remove any such obstruction which may create an impediment for a senior citizen/parent to live in a dignified, peaceful and respectable manner. 12. It was further urged that Rule 21 as framed under the Uttar Pradesh Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules of 2014) confers powers on the District Magistrate to issue such directions as may not be inconsistent with the Act and the District Magistrate who is the Appellate Authority can pass such orders as may be necessary including the power to pass an order of eviction. 13. The learned counsel for the petitioners further submitted that the Apex Court in S. Vanitha Vs. Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru ; 2021 (15) SCC 730 while considering the interplay between the provisions of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as the "Act of 2005) and considering the Act of 2007 held that the two Acts and their provisions have to be harmoniously construed and in certain circumstances, the power of eviction which lies in the hands of the Tribunal, can be exercised by it. 14. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that where the attitude, behaviour and actions of children/relatives are not conducive viz. a viz. their parents/senior citizens, then in such circumstances, the senior citizen/parent may experience trauma and face a difficult situation and due to pressure and emotional dependence it may be hard for the parent/senior citizens to exclude or oust such children/relative while silently braving the emotional and physical trauma. In such circumstances, the Act of 2007 comes to the aid of such traumatized/neglected parent/senior citizen and in proceedings under the Act of 2007, if circumstances so warrant, then in the given circumstances the Authorities in deserving cases can pass appropriate orders, including an order of eviction for the benefit and welfare of the parent/senior citizen. 15. It was further submitted that where the property in question belongs to the senior citizen and in cases where the senior citizen/parent is mistreated by their children/relatives then it cannot be said that they lose their right to seek eviction of their children/relatives as the status of such children/relatives is nothing more than that of a licensee and the parent/senior citizen in capacity of the owner/licensor can seek the removal/eviction of the children who really speaking do not have any independent right to retain or remain in the said property against the wish of the parent/the senior citizen. 16. The learned counsel for the petitioners also submitted that in the Division Bench decision of Swaraj Varun (Supra), the Court did not consider the scope of a residence order while the word maintenance as defined in the Act includes the right of residence and such an order of residence can be passed by the Maintenance Tribunal. It was also urged that the said decision does not consider the object of Chapter V of the Act of 2007 nor the scope of how a residence order, if claimed by a senior citizen/parent, can be made effective and meaningful especially in light of Rules 21 and 24 of the Rules of 2014. 17. Moreover, it was pointed out that the Division Bench in Bipraji Singh (Supra) did not consider the decision of the Apex Court in S. Vanitha (Supra) and for the aforesaid reasons it cannot be pressed into service to deny a right of eviction, especially when the entire scheme of the Act was not considered in the correct perspective in the said decision . 18. It was lastly urged that the later Division Bench decision of this Court in Shivani Verma (Supra) noticed the entire scheme of the Act and the Rules including the word 'maintenance' which includes the right of residence. It also noticed the impact and import of the decision of the Apex Court in S. Vanitha (Supra) and thus after taking an over all view, it has rightly concluded that to provide the right of residence/maintenance to the senior citizen/parent, if an order of eviction is required, then the same can be validly passed. C.	 Submissions on Behalf of the State of U.P.:- 19. Sri Nishant Shukla, learned Standing Counsel for the State has provided a copy of the Comprehensive Action Plan framed by the Ministry of Social Welfare of the State of U.P., for the record and has referred to various provisions of the Act of 2007 and the Rules of 2014 to submit that the Scheme of the Act is such that it recognizes the dual need of maintenance and protection of senior citizens/ parents and it also includes the element of avoidance of harassment for such class. It emphasizes that in order to avoid harassment of a senior citizen/parent and to provide meaningful maintenance and protection to a senior citizen/parent for their dignified living, an order of eviction if required in a befitting case, it can be ordered by the Tribunal as well as the District Magistrate as explained by a Division Bench of this Court in Shivani Verma (Supra). 20. It is urged that while the District Magistrate in order to protect a senior citizen or his property apart from resolving any dispute relating to maintenance or in the case where a right of usage of such property of the senior citizen/parent is involved then in order to provide the necessary relief to such parent/ the senior citizen, an order of eviction can be passed and this would be a power implicit with the Maintenance Tribunal and District Magistrate as the case may be. 21. It has further been submitted that the Apex Court in S. Vanitha (Supra) had recognized the power of the Tribunal to pass an eviction order in compelling circumstances and the only caveat which is required to be exercised is that the Tribunal or the District Magistrate, as the case may be, must be satisfied and must record reasons relating to the existence of compelling circumstances which requires passing of such an order by recording its satisfaction that in case if such an order is not passed then it would deprive the senior citizen of his right to enjoy his property with dignity and peace. 22. It was also submitted that Section 23 of the Act of 2007 clearly recognizes the power vested with the Tribunal to declare a document of transfer executed by a senior citizen as void and this also reflects the pervasive power conferred on the Tribunal, then, as a concomitant, the Tribunal can pass even an order to restore possession including to evict a person, failing which the Tribunal will fall short of its obligation to provide a complete relief and benefit to the senior citizen/parent under the Act of 2007. Any other meaning ascribed would amount to defeating the object of the Act of 2007, which would not be justified in law. Hence, it cannot be said that the Maintenance Tribunal or the District Magistrate, as the case may be, is not empowered to order eviction of the children/relative under the Act of 2007. D.	 Submissions on Behalf of the Union of India:- 23. Sri Sudhanshu Chauhan, learned counsel appearing for the Union has submitted that even prior to the promulgation of the Act of 2007, there were certain Acts and provisions in law for providing maintenance to parents, namely the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1956) and in the Criminal Procedure Code , the provisions for maintenance is provided under Section 125 Cr.P.C., which also finds reflection in Section 144 of the Bhartiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita (hereinafter referred to as "The BNSS") which are of general nature and not confined to parents or senior citizens alone. 24. It was further submitted that under the Act of 1956, a person (though confined to Hindus as defined in the Act) is bound to maintain his or her legitimate or illegitimate children and his infirm or aged parents. While the provisions of Section 125 Cr.P.C. and now Section 144 of BNSS do not define the term 'maintenance' or 'parents' but the said provision uses the terminology of providing maintenance inter alia to father or mother who is unable to maintain himself/herself and in such cases, monthly allowance for interim maintenance and expenses for the proceedings can be awarded by the Magistrate concerned. 25. It was urged that Section 125 Cr.P.C is a general provision available to all citizens irrespective of their religious orientation, however, in contradistinction, the Act of 1956 is available only to Hindus as defined in the Act of 1956. Despite the availability of provisions in law for maintenance, an emergent need to address certain pressing issues for providing care for the elderly was felt. Noticing a gradual shift in the societal composition leading the older generation to spend most of their later years in recluse which exposed them to emotional neglect and in many cases, it gave rise to maltreatment by resorting to physical, financial and emotional neglect and abuse. 26. These issues were becoming a challenge for the society, hence, in order to address such concerns, the Act of 2007 came into being. It provides for creation of a Maintenance Tribunal which is required to consider the issue of maintenance as defined in Section 2 (b) of the Act of 2007 but such a Tribunal has not been vested with any power to pass an order of eviction. 27. It has also been submitted by Sri Chauhan that this issue was also under consideration before the Parliament and during the debate on the said bill which later came into being as the Act of 2007, it was observed that the matter relating to protection of life and property of a senior citizen/parent, basically pertains to law and order and this is State subject, hence, it was left open for the respective State Governments to examine the issue and if they deemed appropriate they could have legislated on the aforesaid aspect while framing the Rules. Therefore, the issue of eviction from a property was consciously left out from being incorporated in the Act by the Parliament and in the instant case even the State Governmet has not incorporated or provided for any such powers to either the Maintenance Tribunal/Appellate Tribunal or the District Magistrate, as the case may be. 28. It was next urged that Section 23 is a stand alone provision and in order to invoke the same, the necessary conditions as engrafted in the said Section have to be first ascertained. If the said conditions do exist, only then the Tribunal in a befitting case may pass an order as envisaged in the said Section and as a concomitant a limited order of restoring possession to the senior citizen/parent may be passed, however, it cannot be said that the Tribunal as a matter of course, has been vested with powers to order an eviction of children/relative or a third party. 29. It was further submitted that looking into the provisions of the Act of 2007, it would indicate that the Appellate Authority constituted in terms of Section 15 and 16 of the Act of 2007 has distinct and limited powers which is confined only to assess the validity of the orders passed by the Maintenance Tribunal. Even though the District Magistrate has been designated as an Appellate Authority, the powers of a District Magistrate while it acts as an Appellate Authority under the Act of 2007 are different than the powers which a District Magistrate exercises as an authority appointed by the State Government for ensuring that the intent and purpose of the Act is achieved. This can clearly be discerned from the language of Sections 15 and 16 which relate to the powers exercised as an Appellate Authority which is in contradistinction to the language used in Section 22 of the Act of 2007 as well as the Rules made by the State Government in exercise of powers under Section 32 of the Act of 2007. 30. In this view, it was urged that the District Magistrate does not appear to have been conferred with powers to pass an order of eviction unless it is held that the power of eviction has been conferred upon the District Magistrate in furtherance of the comprehensive action plan as referred to in Section 22 of the Act of 2007 or the Rules framed by the State Government in exercise of its rule making power. It was also submitted that the power of eviction is neither conferred on the Maintenance Tribunal nor on the Appellate Authority, which exercises powers under Section 16 of the Act of 2007. Besides, the aforesaid, the District Magistrate has not been conferred with any adjudicatory powers. Clearly, the State Government has not conferred any power of eviction on the Tribunal or the District Magistrate in the Act nor in the Rules and moreover no such powers can be deciphered from the comprehensive action plan framed by the State Government under Section 22 (2) of the Act of 2007. Hence, inferring that the power to pass an order of eviction has been vested in the Maintenance Tribunal or Appellate Tribunal or the District Magistrate, as implicit powers to further the objects of the Act of 2007 may not be an appropriate conclusion. E.	Submissions on Behalf of the Members of the Bar:- 31. Sri Apoorva Tiwari, learned counsel and member of the Bar assisted the Court and he submitted that a Tribunal constituted under a particular Act is bound to exercise its duties within the four corners of the Act itself. The Tribunal as created by the Act of 2007 does not partake or assume the nature or the role of a Court of Law which are constituted either under Article 214 (for the High Courts) or Article 124 (for the Supreme Court) of the Constitution of India or civil courts constituted under the Bengal, Agra and Assam Act, 1887 or under the Civil Courts Act of the respective State. 32. A Tribunal does not possess inherent powers, which otherwise may be available with a court constituted under the Constitution of India or under any Act which specifically confers such powers upon a court or Tribunal. It was further submitted that the Act of 2007, does not confer any power of eviction either on the Tribunal or the Appellate Authority. 33. Since the Act of 2007 is a special Act, hence, its provisions have to be construed by taking aid of the provisions in the Act itself and external aids may not be borrowed for the said purpose. While considering any provision of the Act of 2007, the definition given in the Act itself can be looked into and it would not be appropriate to ascribe a particular meaning or import some powers for the purposes of the Act of 2007 by borrowing it from any other Act or Rules. 34. It was urged that apart from Section 23 of the Act of 2007 (though for a limited purpose), there is no indication that the Tribunal constituted under the Act of 2007 has been conferred with powers to order eviction. Since the provision of appeal has been couched in a restrictive language permitting an appeal under the Act of 2007 only at the behest of the Senior Citizen/parent and not at the behest of an 'aggrieved party' hence, the Appellate Authority would also exercise restrictive powers i.e. to say, it cannot exercise powers and pass such orders which the Tribunal in the first instance has not been conferred or entitled to pass. 35. In case where relief has been claimed by a senior citizen/the parent in terms of Section 23 of the Act of 2007 which if dismissed by the Tribunal and is appealed only in such a case when the Appellate Authority comes to the conclusion that the order of the Tribunal relating to the relief in Section 23 has been unjustly denied, it may then, while allowing the appeal pass such order of restoring the possession in a limited scenario, but not otherwise. 36. It was further urged that the Act of 2007 is a socio beneficial Act for the parents and senior citizens, hence the provisions have to be construed in a manner as expressed in the Act itself. In case any power which has not been conferred by the Act or the Rules framed thereunder then it may not necessarily permit the Constitutional Court to take recourse to powers of interpretation to read such powers into the Act which was left out by the legislature itself while promulgating the special law. 37. It was further urged that it is true that beneficial welfare legislation deserves liberal interpretation but at the same time it is to be seen that liberal interpretation may not give rise to any anomalous situation, as such an interpretation would not be desirable. It was submitted that if an Act confers powers to do certain acts in a particular manner then such acts have to be done in that manner alone and not otherwise. 38. Since the power of eviction has not been specifically provided in the Act of 2007 nor in the Rules of 2014, hence, such powers cannot be exercised either by the Tribunal, Appellate Tribunal or the District Magistrate. Thus the view expressed by the Division Bench in Shivani Verma (Supra) may not be in consonance with the provisions of the Act of 2007 and the Rules of 2014. 39. It was also submitted that even though Section 27 of the Act of 2007 bars the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts but that is to be read in context with the provisions of the Act of 2007, i.e. to say, only such matters which are squarely covered and governed by the Act of 2007, to that extent, the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts would be barred and not as a whole. This also is indicative of the fact that the Tribunal and the Appellate Authority constituted under the Act are Tribunals of limited jurisdiction which exercises powers within the framework of the Act of 2007 and the Rules of 2014 and not beyond it. F.	Discussions and Analysis:- 40. Having noticed the four questions referred to this Court, it would reveal that the first two questions relate to Chapter II of the Act of 2007, hence, it will be appropriate to take them for consideration together. F.1.	Question Nos. (i) and (ii) 41. For the sake of convenience, the questions no. (i) and (ii) are being reproduced hereinafter:- 42. In order to answer the aforesaid questions, it will be of prime importance to first examine the Scheme of the Act of 2007 and the Rules of 2014 to get a clear concept and picture to enable the Court to reach to a conclusive answer to the questions referred to it. 43. To begin with, the statements, objects and reasons of the Act of 2007 are being reproduced hereinafer:- 4. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. 44. Noticing the objects and reasons of the Act it reveals that the Act was promulgated to cast an obligation on the children/such persons who would inherit the property of their parent/senior citizen or their relatives to ensure that such parent/senior citizen/relatives are maintained and they are not neglected in their twilight years. 45. The Act also envisages recognition by the State of a larger responsibility of ensuring that the older populace is not left destitute and adequate measures are taken inter alia to set up old age homes and to provide for maintenance and upkeep of it for the benefit of indigent elderly persons in an institutionalized manner. The Act of 2007 also envisions creation of an environment for providing better medical facilities to the senior citizens as well as for the protection of their life and property. 46. It will now be appropriate to take a birds eye view of the structure of the Act of 2007. The Act of 2007 would reveal that it has been engrafted in seven Chapters. Each chapter has a nomenclature and the content of each chapter deals with different facets of maintenance and welfare for the parents and senior citizens under the broad umbrella of the Act of 2007, as a whole. 47. The legislature while drafting this Act has conveniently divided it into chapters only. Generally, division of an Act into parts and chapters largely depends on the length of the Act and the subject matter to be dealt with therein, although there is no hard and fast rule relating to this style of drafting a legislation, however, what can be ascertained is where the subject matter of one group of sections is so different from the subject matter of another group, although it forms an integral part of the main Act, then in such a case the Act can be divided into Chapters. The idea conveyed is that it can be conveniently dealt with as separate units of one composite whole when the subject matter is closely linked and requires only separate heading for convenience of classifacation and reference. (See T.K. Vishavanathan Legislative Drafting: Shaping the Law for the new Millennium, Indian Law Institute, IInd Edition, 2007). 48. Noticing the legislative drafting, it would reveal that in the Act of 2007, the first chapter is titled 'Preliminary' and it comprises of three sections. Section 1 introduces the extent and applicability of the Act from the date of its commencement. Section 2 refers to certain terms and words used in the Act which has been defined and more particulary the words 'Children', 'Maintenance', 'Parent', 'Property', 'Senior Citizen', 'Tribunal' and 'Welfare' need to be noticed, hence, the definitions of the above mentioned terms are being reproduced hereinafter. 49. Section 3 gives an overriding effect to this Act and it reads as under:- 50. The next Chapter II has a caption 'Maintenance of Parents and Senior Citizens'. In this Chapter, Section 4 categorically indicates that a senior citizen including a parent who is unable to maintain himself from his own earnings or out of the property owned by him shall be entitled to make an application under Section 5 of the Act. Reference be made to Sections 4 and 5 of the Act of 2007 which read as under:- Explanation.--For the purposes of this section "organisation" means any voluntary association registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860), or any other law for the time being in force. (2) The Tribunal may, during the pendency of the proceeding regarding monthly allowance for the maintenance under this section, order such children or relative to make a monthly allowance for the interim maintenance of such senior citizen including parent and to pay the same to such senior citizen including parent as the Tribunal may from time to time direct. (3) On receipt of an application for maintenance under sub-section (1), after giving notice of the application to the children or relative and after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, hold an inquiry for determining the amount of maintenance. (4) An application filed under sub-section (2) for the monthly allowance for the maintenance and expenses for proceeding shall be disposed of within ninety days from the date of the service of notice of the application to such person: 51. It will be relevant to notice that despite the fact that the word 'parent' and 'senior citizen' are both defined in Section 2(d) and (h) respectively yet in Section 4 it indicates that both the senior citizens as well as parents are entitled for maintenance provided that they are unable to maintain themselves from their own earnings or the property owned by them. 52. Sub Section (2) and (3) of Section 4 cast an obligation on the children or the relative to maintain a senior citizen/parent to the extent that the need of such senior citizen can be met to help them to lead a normal life. 53. Significantly, the word parent as defined in Section 2 (d) includes both mother and father in their widest connotation and in terms of sub section (3), it would be an obligation to maintain both i.e. mother and father, as the case may be. 54. Section 5 allows an application for maintenance to be made not only by a senior citizen/parent, as the case may be, but in case if they are incapable then any person on their behalf or even an Organization authorized by them can invoke the jurisdiction of the Tribunal for their benefit. 55. The Act gives the widest amplitude to a person entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, so much so, that the Tribunal itself has been conferred with the power to take suo-motu cognizance. This indicates that the entire endeavour is to ensure that any senior citizen/parents who are unable to maintain himself/herself may approach the Tribunal by themselves or through an organization working towards welfare which may include welfare societies/non-governmental organizations or even if such an issue comes to the knowledge of a Tribunal concerned, it can take suo moto cognizance thereof so that the benefits of the Act can reach out to the maximum and to the farthest extent possible. 56. The concept of 'locus standi' as applicable in traditional litigation has been diluted for the benefit of the Senior Citizen/Parent. Even though the legislature has conferred power on the Tribunal to exercise suo moto powers for initiation of an application or invoking the powers of the Maintenance Tribunal to start the proceedings, yet the legislature in its wisdom has conspicuouly refrained from conferring any inherent power or any specific power other than what has been mentioned in the Act, upon the Maintenance Tribunal / Appellate Tribunal. 57. The Tribunal has been conferred with the power to provide for monthly allowance for the maintenance, as an interim measure, while the application is under consideration. Section 4 of the Act indicates that upon receipt of an application for maintenance, it is required to hold an inquiry for determining the amount of maintenance to be paid/awarded in context with the need of the individual before the Tribunal and it may even be a combination of different nature of 'maintenance' as defined under the Act both in terms of monetary and non-monetary benefits. This can be done after allowing an opportunity to the respondent in the application and once the Tribunal finds that essential ingredients of Section 4 are established, it is then required to pass a maintenance order. After an order under Section 4 is passed and thereafter in case of any failure or breach on the part of the children or the relative, as the case may be, against whom an order of maintenance has been passed by the Tribunal, such respondent can be hauled up for breach/non-compliance of the order by issuing a warrant/levy of fine and also imposing a sentence of imprisonment which may extend to a period of one month or till the payment is made whichever is earlier and this is clear from bare reading of Section 5 (8) of the Act of 2007. 58. Section 7 relates to the constitution of the Maintenance Tribunal which is to be constituted by the State Government and sub Section (2) clearly states that the Presiding Officer of such a Tribunal shall not be an officer below the rank of a Sub Divisional Officer. The procedure to be followed for holding an inquiry in terms of Section 8 of the Act of 2007 would be summary in nature. 59. For better appreciation, Sections 7 and 8 are being reproduced hereinafter:- 60. Section 9 of the Act of 2007 relates to the order of maintenance which is required to be passed, however, what is relevant to note that sub Section (2) of Section 9 provides the maximum quantum of maintenance which can be ordered by the Tribunal shall not exceed Rs. 10,000/- per month (this is of course subject to any limit that may be prescribed by the State Government which in the State of U.P. as of now is Rs. 10,000/-). 61. Section 10 of the Act of 2007 permits the Tribunal to alter its order made under Section 9 which may either be on account of any change in the circumstances or on account of any decision which may be rendered by a Competent Civil Court. 62. Section 11 of the Act of 2007 speaks of enforcement of an order of maintenance while Section 12 states that a person whether a senior citizen or a parent can claim maintenance in terms of any provision contained in any other law such as in terms of Chapter IX of the Cr.P.C . (and now in terms of Chapter X, Sections 144 to 147 of Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023) (hereinafter referred to as BNSS of 2023) or under the Act of 2007 but not under both. 63. Sections 13 and 14 of the Act of 2007 empower the Tribunal to get the amount deposited from the children or relative, against whom a maintenance order has been passed, with the Tribunal and it can also direct payment of simple interest which may range between 5% to 18 % per annum. 64. An order of maintenance passed in Section 9 has been made appealable to an Appellate Tribunal which is to be presided over by an officer not below the rank of a District Magistrate. However, what is important to note is that an appeal in terms of Section 16 to an Appellate Tribunal as provided in the Act of 2007 is only at the behest of a senior citizen or a parent. This is a restrictive right and available only to the senior citizen/parent. This is in contradistinction to a right of appeal, which is generally conferred to an 'aggrieved person' in a traditional and advesorial litigation. 65. This necessarily indicates that a senior citizen or a parent, as the case may be, can approach the Appellate Tribunal where :- 66. In order to make it convenient and friendly for the senior citizen / parent, they are entitled to invoke the good offices offered by Maintenance Officer to represent the senior citizen / parent, as the case may be before the Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be. 67. Taking note of the various provisions of Chapter II of the Act of 2007, now it will be apposite to refer to the language imported by the legislature while engrafting Section 9 of the Act of 2007 which is reproduced hereinafter:- 68. From the above quoted provision, it would be clear that the Maintenance Tribunal constituted under Section 7 of the Act of 2007 can only pass a maintenance order not exceeding a sum of Rs. 10,000/-. 69. The word 'maintenance' as defined in Section 2 (b) of the Act of 2007 clearly states and takes within its ambit the power to issue a maintenance order which takes within its fold inter alia provisions for food, clothing, residence and medical attendance and treatment. This assumes significance for the reason that being a social welfare legislation, the Act recognizes that the need of senior citizens/parents relating to food, clothing, residence and medical attendance or treatment which cannot be a one-time measure rather it may be a re-occurring or a variable need. Hence, the legislature has consciously used the word 'provision'. It is also to be kept in mind that the provision which is to be made for food, clothing, residence, medical attendance and treatment, together as per the current prescribed limit is not to exceed Rs. 10,000/- a month and can be varied at any stage, without breaching the celing of ten thousand rupees. 70. Here, it will be relevant to notice that the word 'maintenance' is not defined in Chapter IX of Cr.P.C ., relatable to Section 125 Cr.P.C. or in Chapter X in terms of Section 144 of BNSS of 2023. However, the fact remains that in terms of the aforesaid provisions it is only monetary sum that can be to be awarded by the Magistrate and it does not refer to provide or make provision for grant of any non-monetary needs of the person. This indicates that even though under the general law which is applicable to inter alia a parent and not necessarily being a senior citizen but such parent can get a higher maintenance under the Cr.P.C . or BNSS than that can be awarded under the Act of 2007 as in the Act of 2007, the maintenance order cannot exceed Rs. 10,000/- per month (as per current limit) which is inclusive of all types of maintainance, both monetary and non monetary. 71. Section 9 (i) , empowers the Tribunal to pass a maintenance order after holding an inquiry for determining the amount of maintenance to be awarded and this amount/monthly allowance is determined after taking note of the specific need and circumstances of such senior citizen/ parent. This is primarily a need based remedy for a senior citizen/parent, which in a robust manner is granted, considering their need for food, clothing, residence and medical attendance and treatment, as the case may be, but not exceeding Rs. 10,000/- a month. 72. The provisions of the Act contained in Chapter II do not in any manner indicate that any power of eviction has been conferred on the Tribunal while it exercises the powers to hold an inquiry for determining the amount of maintenance (see Section 5 (3) of the Act of 2007). 73. The provisions of Chapter II of the Act of 2007 also do not confer any finality to the orders passed by a Maintenance Tribunal, as an order of the Maintenance Tribunal is passed in summary proceedings and it can be altered or cancelled or varied by the Maintenance Tribunal as per Section 10 of the Act. Noticeably, the Tribunal has not been conferred with the power of review. This alteration/cancellation/variation in the order can be done if there is a decision to the contrary either by the Appellate Tribunal or from a Competent Court of civil jurisdiction. Hence, the order of Maintenance Tribunal is clearly subject to the order passed by the Appellate Tribunal and Court of competent civil jurisdiction. Nevertheless, there is no trace of any source of power conferred on the Maintenanec Tribunal under the Act of 2007 or under the Rules of 2014 to grant or pass any order of eviction. 74. Now, the same Chapter II of the Act of 2007 in Section 16 provides for an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal. Section 16 for the sake of convenience is reproduced hereinafter:- 75. The aforesaid Section reveals that the Appellate Tribunal has been empowered to entertain an appeal at the behest of a parent or a senior citizen and the first proviso contained therein indicates that if an appeal is filed by an aggrieved senior citizen/parent, that by itself will not permit the children/the relative, who is a respondent in the application, to not pay the amount of maintenance as ordered by the Maintenance Tribunal. 76. The Appellate Tribunal, needless to say, is required to exercise its appellate jurisdiction as prescribed in law within the four corners of the Act of 2007 and Rules of 2014. In case if the application of the senior citizen/parent is rejected as a whole or if partly allowed then the Appellate Tribunal will determine the correctness of the order passed by the Maintenance Tribunal and while doing so, it will consider whether the senior citizen/ parent is unable to maintain himself from his own earnings or from the property owned by him and if so, then it will award the maintenance after noticing why it was turned down by the Maintenance Tribunal. In a case where a partial relief has been granted by the Maintenance Tribunal then necessarily the Appellate Tribunal would determine and make an appropriate provision which may include enhancing the quantum of maintenance, subject to the ceiling of Rs. 10,000/- as prescribed by the Act of 2007. 77. From the reading of entire Section 16 of the Act of 2007, it does not indicate that any special power is conferred on the Appellate Tribunal to pass any order of eviction. The power of appeal to be exercised by the Appellate Tribunal is necessary to scrutinize the correctness of the order of Maintenance Tribunal. In the Act of 2007, if the Maintenance Tribunal is not empowered to pass an order of eviction then as a fortiori, the Appellate Tribunal also cannot pass any order of eviction. Significantly, there is no such indication in the Act of 2007, or even in the Rules, 14, 15 and 16 of the Rules of 2014 which may lead or give a hint of conferring such powers to order eviction upon the Appellate Tribunal. 78. At this juncture, it will be relevant to mention that the Rules framed by the State of Punjab under the Act of 2007 known as "The Punjab Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules 2012" and notified on 27.11.2014, has a provision for eviction and the relevant rule reads as under:- 79. In the same vein, the Union Territory of Chandigarh has formulated its Rules known as Chandigarh Maintenance of Parents and Senior Citizens, Rules, 2009 wherein in Rule 3 (1) powers have been conferred relating to eviction from the property/residential building of senior citizen /parent and the same reads as under:- 80. From the aforesaid, it can safely be inferred that as far as the Act of 2007 and the Rules of 2014 are concerned they do not confer any such power of eviction, however, if the power of eviction was to be conferred, then the same is to be done by the legislature specifically while enacting the Rules. Significantly, in State of U.P., the Government though has framed the Rules of 2014 but conspicuously it has not conferred any such power either on the Maintenance Tribunal and/or Appellate Tribunal. 81. Now, at this stage, it will be relevant to notice certain decisions of this Court and the reasoning given therein to hold that the Maintenance Tribunal / Appellate Tribunal under the Act of 2007 did not have the power to pass an order of eviction. 82. In Swaraj Varun (Supra), the Division Bench of this Court held as under:- 83. In Bipraji Singh (Supra), another Division Bench of this Court echoed the same sentiment as expressed in Swaraj Varun (Supra) but with additional reasons which are noticed as under:- 84. On the other hand, in Shivani Verma (Supra), another Division Bench while considering the provisions of the Act but not considering the earlier decisions of two Division Benches in Swaraj Varun (Supra) and Bipraji Singh (Supra), while holding that eviction orders can be passed, it recorded its conclusion in para 67 as under:- 85. The premise upon which the Court in Shivani Verma (Supra) proceeded was that the Maintenance Tribunal has the power to order grant of a residence order and the Tribunal while dealing with the case of a maintenace in which a residence order is passed then an eviction order in such a case can be passed whereas a District Magistrate in terms of Chapter V can pass an order of eviction relating to any other property of the senior citizen/parent except which is not covered by grant of a maintenance order relating to residence. For clarity in this regard, paragraphs 65 and 66 of Shivani Verma (Supra) are being reproduced hereinafter:- 86. However, this Court is of the opinion that the word 'property' defined in the Act of 2007 cannot be given different meaning in different sections and chapters of the same Act as tried to be done by the Court in Shivani Verma (Supra). The very fact that a parent/senior citizen is unable to maintain from his own property (the language used in Section 4 of the Act) implies that if he is seeking a maintenance order of residence then perhaps he must not be possessing any residential property of his own nor he is able to maintain himself from his own property (which would include his assets and financial resources). 87. The Maintenance Tribunal while passing a 'residence order' can either direct the respondent, in complaint, to arrange for residence for the senior citizen/parent or provide some monetary assistance to enable the senior citizen/parent to be placed in an old age home in terms of Section 19 or in a rented accommodation, with rent to be paid by the respondent of the complaint or even directing the respondent of the complaint to permit the senior citizen/parent to reside along with the respondent of the complaint but then it cannot order the eviction of the respondent of the complaint and at best may make such directions which may minimize the conflict, if any. Having said that, it is also to be kept in mind that the word ' residence' used in Section 2 (b) of the Act of 2007 is differently defined than the reference to the word 'residence order' as used in Section 17 and 19 of the Act of The Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. 88. Moreover, the word 'property' as defined in the Act of 2007 is of very wide amplitude and to say that property other than one covered under 'residence order' can be taken into notice by the District Magistrate for ordering eviction may give rise to an apparent anomaly, as the District Magistrate under the Act of 2007 in terms of Chapter V has not been conferred with any adjudicatory functions. This has been explained in detail by this Court in the later part of this opinion while dealing with question no. (iii). Hence, the same be taken into account towards supplementing reasons in respect of the issue considered here relating to the power of Maintenance Tribunal/Appellate Tribunal to grant an order of eviction. Nevertheless, the fact remains that the Division Bench in Shivani Verma (Supra) tried to ascribe powers to the Maintenance Tribunal and the District Magistrate in different situations by reading something into the Act which was not provided and by stretching its power to interpret with aid of the tool of purposive interpretation which creates an anomaly while considering the word property and the powers and functions of the Maintenance Tribunal and the District Magistrate. 89. The decision in Shivani Verma (Supra) was followed by another Division Bench in Dinesh Ahuja @ Chinu Vs. District Magistrate; 2024 (6) AWC 6058 All, wherein it was held as under:- 90. "29. In fact the Supreme Court observed in summation point 24(ii) and 24(iv) that the daughter-in-law (in that case) may not be evicted summarily during pendency of her proceedings under the Protection of Women From Domestic Violence Act, 2005 . Thus, it appears to us the Supreme Court itself was cognizant that the summary eviction proceeding may otherwise arise and be concluded under the Act and the Rules framed thereunder. However, it reasoned that such proceeding may not be concluded and made final during the pendency of another proceedings under another special Act. To that extent, discussion exists in the decision of the Supreme Court itself that Protection of Women From Domestic Violence Act, 2005 and the protections thereunder are not to be trifled or ignored. 91. 30. In view of that reason offered by us, we find ourselves in respectful disagreement with the decision of the Patna High Court in Ravi Shankar (Supra) and the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Simrat Randhawa (Supra). The decision of the learned single judge of this Court in Krishna Kumar (Supra) is distinguishable, that being referable to proceedings under Chapter II of the Act and not Chapter V of the Act , as is the present case. 92. 31. As to the third objection raised by learned counsel for the petitioner based on the decision of the Supreme Court in Sau Rajani (Supra), we find the same has no application in the present case. While the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts may survive summary proceedings for eviction under Chapter V of the Act read with the Rules framed thereunder, read with the CAP, that summary proceeding may remain subject to the out come of any civil suit wherein larger issues and other rights may be involved. 32.At present, we make it clear that we are not proposing to rule as to the exact extent and nature of proceedings to which the summary eviction proceedings under Chapter V of the Act may remain subject to. However, solely to deal with the objections raised on the strength of plenary jurisdiction of the Civil Courts, we provide that the summary eviction under the Act would remain subject to final out come of O.S. No. 837 of 2020 (Dinesh Ahuja v. Indrajeet Ahuja) pending in the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division), Meerut. In those proceedings larger and other rights of the parties may be contested and decided. Any other construction made would defeat the entire object and purpose of the special welfare law, namely, the Act and the Rules framed thereunder." 93. In Om Prakash Manchanda Vs. District Magistrate/Collector, (2019) 132 ALR 566, a learned Single Judge of this Court has held as under:- The observations made by the Court in Om Prakash Manchanda (Supra) emanates from a dispute which relates to a joint family property and included a partnership dispute. The provisions of the Act of 2007 were invoked by the father at the behest of his two sons against his third son and needless to say that the disptues were already engaging the attention of the regular courts, hence, the said order passed in view of its own facts and the case does not shed much light over the issue which is under consideration of this Full Bench. 94. The Division Bench in Randhir Singh Vs. District Magistrate, Faizabad and others ; (2020) 146 RD 178 (DB) has held as under:- The aforesaid decision would reveal that in the said case, directions were given to the District Magistrate to ensure that both the parties live in a congenial atmosphere without interferring in the peaceful life of each other, however , the said decision actually does not state whether any power of eviction has been conferred on the Maintenance Tribunal/Appellate Tribunal, hence , the said decision also does not throw much light on the issue before this Full Bench and thereafter is not of much assistance. 95. It is relevant to state that after the hearing was concluded, the learned counsel for the parties had brought to notice of this Court, a decision of the Apex Court in Urmila Dixit Vs. Sunil Saran Dixit and others ; 2025 (2) SCC 787 wherein the Apex Court held as under:- Apparently, in Urmila Dixit (Supra), the Apex Court made the above observations in context of Section 23 of the Act as in the said case the issue of cancellation of a gift deed was involved alongwith its consequences. This has been noticed by this Court while dealing with issue no. (iii) in the later part of the opinion. 96. Then another decision of the Apex Court was rendered in the case of Samtola Devi Vs. State of U.P. , 2025 SCC Online SC 669 which throws some light on the subject and was noticed by this Court wherein it was held as under:- 35. In the light of the above situation, the High Court appears to be well within its jurisdiction to set aside the eviction order passed by the Tribunal and to maintain the other conditions imposed by the Tribunal." The Apex Court noticed that the Maintenance Tribunal/Appellate Tribunal does not have the power to order eviction and this decision also referred to the observations of the Apex Court in Urmila Dixit (Supra). 97. Thereafter another decision of the Apex Court came in Rajeshwar Prasad Rao Vs. State of Bihar : 2025 Live Law (SC) 418 where the right to issue an order of eviction in certain circumstances has been recognized and the relevant portion reads as under:- However, with utmost respect, the said decision of the Apex Court is based on its own facts emerging from the State of Bihar, whereas the case of Samtola Devi (Supra) arises from the State of U.P. wherein, the learned Single Judge of the High Court (in Krishna Kumar Vs. State of U.P. ; 2023 SCC OnLine All 645) had held that Tribunal under Chapter II could not order an eviction simplicitor. Even though the said cases have been decided on its own facts and they do not conclusively hold whether the Maintenance Tribunal, Appellate Tribunal or the Authority under the Act of 2007 have powers to order an eviction or not but Samtola Devi (Supra) is the closest decision of the Apex Court which holds that the Maitenance Tribunal/Appellate Tribunal do not have powers to order eviction. 98. In light of the above discussions, this Court finds that the Maintenance Tribunal which is manned by an officer not below the rank of the Sub Divisional Officer or the Appellate Tribunal which is manned by an officer not below the rank of District Magistrate, while discharging their respective duties as a Maintenance Tribunal or an Appellate Tribunal cannot go beyond the jurisdiction and powers conferred in terms of Chapter II. Moreover, in absence of any such power of eviction being expressely conferred on the Maintenance Tribunal / Appellate Tribunal either by the Act of 2007 or by the Rules of 2014 then such powers cannot be imbibed nor such a power can be exercised under inherent powers, moreso, when the Tribunals have not been conferred with inherent powers unlike the civil courts who have been conferred with inherent powers as seen from Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure. 99. For the aforesaid reasons, this Court is of the clear view that no such power of eviction has been conferred either on the Maintenance Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal in the Act of 2007 or in terms of Rules of 2014, hence, no order of eviction can be passed by the Maintenance Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal in exercise of its powers in terms of Section 7 , 8 and 9 of the Act of 2007. 100. Thus, the questions nos. (i) and (ii) are answered accordingly. 101. Now, before proceeding to deal with the third question as framed, it will be apposite to note Section 20 of the Act which is a part of Chapter IV, to understand the scheme of the Act as a whole and for that purpose Section 20 is being reproduced hereinafter:- (iii') facility for treatment of chronic, terminal and degenerative diseases is expanded for 
 
 senior citizens; (iv) research activities for chronic elderly diseases and ageing is expanded; (v)there are earmarked facilities for geriatric patients in every district hospital duly headed by a medical officer with experience in geriatric care." 102. The aforesaid provision reveals that Chapter IV of the Act of 2007 comprises of a single Section 20 and it provides for making provisions for medical care and attention for senior citizens and takes within its fold obligation of the State to ensure user friendly, need based facilities for geriatic patients in Government Hospitals. The import of Section 20 in the overall scheme has been noticed in later part of this opinion while dealing with question no. (iii). F.2	Question No. (iii):- 103. Now, its time to consider question no. (iii) which is being reproduced for the purpose of recapitulation:- 104. Chapter V of the Act of 2007 is titled 'protection of life and property of senior citizens' and it takes within its fold Sections 21 to Section 23 . It will be relevant to reproduce Section 21 of the Act which reads as under:- 105. What is significant to note is that Section 21 directs the State Government to take all measures to ensure that :- 106. Section 21 primarily casts an obligation on the State to ensure that all its executive arms work in coordination so that the laudable object of the Act is achieved and a friendly and convenient ecosystem for the elderly comes in place. 107. This Chapter V and moreso Section 21 and Section 22 of the Act of 2007 read with Rule 21 and Rule 22 express the intention of the Act that the senior citizens are to be given primacy as far as their needs vis-a-vis their interaction with the Government interface is concerned whether it be relating to their medical needs, the need for shelter, maintenance, their right to live with dignity and to ensure that they are not harassed while pursuing their day to day issues with the various instrumentalities of the Government. To achive such an ecosystem, it is first necessary to ensure that the actual beneficiaries of the Act i.e. elderly populace and the care givers are well informed and sensitized with the aims and objects of the Act so that the instrumentalities of the State, in their dealing with the problems and issues of the elderly, may coordinate amongst themselves so that a robust system is put in place for timely attention and alleviation of the predicament faced by the senior citizens. 108. Section 22 of the Act of 2007 is apparently an enabling section which directs the State Government to confer the powers to implement the provisions of the Act and to ensure its smooth adherence by an officer not below the rank of a District Magistrate. The District Magistrate, under the Act can further delegate the duties to such officer who would carry out and perform all or any of the duties so conferred under the Act within local limits as may be prescribed. Sub Section (2) of Section 22 obligates the State Government to provide a comprehensive action plan for the protection of life and property of senior citizens. 109. In furtherance of Section 21 and to have a clear picture of what the State has understood regarding the duties and powers which were proposed to be conferred upon the District Magistrate finds reflection in Rule 21 framed under the Rules of 2014 which reads as under:- 110. Rule 21 (2) (i) of the Rules of 2014 as quoted above reveals that a duty is cast on the District Magistrate to ensure that life and property of senior citizens are protected and they are able to live with security and dignity. If Rule 21 (2) as extracted above is seen in context with the other obligations which are mentioned in Rule 21 (2) (ii) to (xi), it shows that the District Magistrate can even review the progress of the investigation and trial of cases relating to senior citizens in the district except in cities which have a Director Inspector General of Police. The duties so conferred and envisioned in Rule 21 are relating to all such obligations, which are relatable to the various challenges faced by the senior citizens, while interacting with different Government interface, in their day to day lives. The endevour is to make the interaction experience of a senior citizen with the Government Organizations less stressful and more friendly and convenient and the District Magistrate being the Nodal Officer is required to synchronise and oversee what is required to be achieved in terms of Section 21 of the Act of 2007. 111. The duties as enumerated in Rule 21 would indicate that they are an elaboration of the object sought to be achieved. Section 19 to Section 22 read with Rule 21 and 22 framed under the Act would clearly indicate that it envisages creation of a safe eco system for the senior citizens where they can live without stress or fear of neglect and harrassment at the hands of their children/relatives or even third parties and yet have the comfort of realizing that their needs would be respected and understood. In case of need, the Authorities would respond apporpriately, implicitily recognizing the frailty which comes with age for a senior citizen/parent. 112. Actually, in a manner, its a test to measure how well a society has developed and progressed and one of the indices, inter alia, how the Society and the State takes care of its senior citizens and this Act is a beacon for the State to move in a positive direction to provide for the benefits to the senior citizen/parent under the Act. 113. A reading Sections 21 and 22 with Rules 21 and 22 reveals that the Legislature has put Rule 22 in Chapter VI of the Rules with the nomenclature 'Protection of Life & Property of Senior Citizens' whereas the phrase protection of life and property of senior citizens is the nomenclature of Chapter V of the Act and it also finds place in Rule 21 (2) (i) which relates to duties of the District Magistrate. Rule 22 reads "action plan for the protection of life and property of senior citizens'. This word 'action plan' as used in Rule 22 is referrable to Section 22 (2) of the Act of 2007 obligating the Government to prescribe a comprehensive action plan. 114. It will be gainful to take a glance at Rule 22 of 2014 and the same reads as under:- (2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-rule (1) (i) each police station shall maintain an up-to-date list of senior citizens living within its jurisdiction, especially those who are living by themselves (le without there being any member in their household who is not a senior citizen); (li) a representative of the police station together as far as possible, with a social worker or volunteer, shall visit such senior citizens at regular intervals of at least once a month, and shall, in addition, visit them as quickly as possible on receipt of a request of assistance from them, (iii) complaints/ problems of senior citizens shall be promptly attended to, by the local police; (iv) one or more Volunteer Committee (s) shall be formed for each Police Station which shall ensure regular contact between the senior citizens, especially those living by themselves, on the one hand, and the police and the district administration on the other, (v) the District Superintendent of police or, the Divisional Inspector General of Police as the case may be, shall cause to be publicized widely in the media and through the Police Station, at regular intervals, the steps being taken for the protection of life and property of senior citizens; (vi) each Police Station shall maintain a separte register containing all important particulars relating to offences committed against Senior Citizens as in Annexure IV (vii) The Register referred to in clause (vi) shall be kept available for public inspection, and every officer inspecting a Police Station shall invariably review the status as entered in the register; (viii) The Police Station shall send a monthly report of such crimes to the, District Superintendent of police by the 10th of every month; (ix) list of Do's and Don'ts to be follwed by senior citizens, in the interest of their safety, will be widely publicized; (x) antecedents of domestic servants and others working for senior citizens shall be promptly verified, on the request of such citizens; (xi) community policing for the security of senior citizens will be undertaken in conjunction with citizens living in the neighbourhood, Residents' Welfare Association, Youth Volunteers, Non-Government Organizations, etc, (xii) the District Superintendent of police shall submit to the Director General of Police and to the District Magistrate, a monthly report by the 20th of every month, about the status of crimes agarnist senior citizens during the previous month, including progress of investigation and prosecution of registered offences, and preventive steps taken during the month, as in Annexure Vi (xiii) the District Mangistrate shall cause the report to be placed before the District-level Committee constituted under rule 24; (xiv) The Director General of police shall cause the reports submitted under caluse (xii) to be compiled, once a quarter, and shall submit them to the Government every quarter as well as every year for, inter-alia, being placed before the State Council of Senior Citizens constituted under rule 23." 115. Rule 22(2) (i) to (x) which has been extracted above reveals that directions mentioned therein, for each police station, to maintain an up to date list of senior citizens living within their jurisdiction and focussing on those who are living by themselves. It also directs for a representative of the police station along with a social worker or volunteer to visit such senior citizens at regular intervals at least once a month. In case where a request is made by a senior citizen then attend to the complaint and problem as expressed by such a senior citizens with promptitude. Further, elaborations made therein would reveal that the work of the police which was traditionally perceived as a law enforcement agency alone is sought to be given a face lift by reinforcing the Police Authorities to function, behave and work as a friend of the public with special emphasis for senior citizens. 116. Having said that, this Court does not find that there is any indication in any provision or rule which creates or confers special powers to take such action and pass an order of eviction against any third party or a person who may be living with the senior citizen or in the premises belonging to the senior citizen. The duties as provided in Rule 21 and Rule 22 is primarily for strengthening and securing the social fabric to provide a protected stress free environment for the senior citizen and certainly not to create a forum or conferring special powers to evict any person irrespective of the right and obligation of such a party whose presence or possession may be adverse to that of a senior citizen. 117. In other words, the law of the land as applicable to the citizens of this country is to be followed uniformally except that the senior citizen, who are part of a preferred segment, are to be given priority only as per the terms of the Act of 2007. In terms of Rule 22, while the police is required to perform its duties and functions and where they are dealing with the case relating to senior citizens, they must be cautious to look into the problems and complaints with senstivity and expedition and act accordingly. It will be worthwhile to recall that Section 19 (ii) inter alia provides for the judicial officers to be sensitized too, so that in course of discharge of their judicial functions, if they come across matters relating to a senior citizen, they should be sensitive enough to accord appropriate priority as required keeping the intent of the Act of 2007 in mind. Similar is the situation where a senior citizen who goes for his treatment to a hospital, then in terms of Section 20 , necessary facilities on priority be given with need based attention and senstivity, to the senior citizens. 118. It is in this context that Rule 22 which is titled "protection of life and property of senior citizens" has been placed in Chapter VI of the Rules of 2014 and an obligation has been placed on the Police Authorities to ensure that preventive measures are taken for the benefit and protection of senior citizens and the entire Rule 22 does not in any manner indicate or reflect any obligation imposed on the Police Authorities to carry out any remedial exercise beyond the already established framework of the forums created by law governing the citizens as a whole. 119. At this stage, it will be relevant to ascertain what the word protection means. Simply put, the word 'protect' means to cover, shield or defend from injury, harm or danger of any kind. The word 'protection' is defined in the Black's Law Dictionary Xth Edition is as under:- The word 'protective order' is also defined in the Black's Law Dictionary Xth Edition as under:- 120. Thus, the word protect implies protection/a cover/ a shield and in this case for a specified class which would be referrable to the protection for senior citizens. Nevertheless, the word protect and the word protection, being its verb implies the act of protecting the life and property of senior citizens. This necessarily implies an anticipated move or an action done in pre-emption of an eventuality to ensure that the chance for such an eventuality is minimized. Apparently, it is all a preventive act and is in contradistinction to a remedial or a reactive action which may be necessary, once an eventuality occurs. 121. It will be relevant to notice that, comprehensive action plan, which is envisaged in Section 22 (2) of the Act, has been prepared by the State Government vide its Government Order dated 21st March, 2016 bearing No. 8/2016/727/26-02-2016. If the policy or the action plan of the State Government is seen, it would reveal that it envisages creation of a framework for providing effective and appropriate ecosystem inter alia for physical and mental health, economic security, shelter, welfare and for providing essential needs for a senior citizen as well as to protect them from being harassed and exploited and such protection and facilities are to be given across the State both in rural and urban areas. 122. The Action Plan details, setting up of old age homes at different levels, for providing health care at various levels i.e. to say at Commissionarate, District Level, Primary Health Centers, Community Health Centers and Sub Stations so that medical facilities is made available to the senior citizen at all levels. It also mentions about providing facilities for aging and geriatric health and the State in furtherance thereof has created a department at King George's Medical University, Lucknow called 'Center for Advance Research in Aging and Geriatric Mental Health' where senior citizens suffering from dementia and alzheimer are treated. 123. In order to secure the senior citizens economically, certain welfare schemes such as Senior Citizens Pension Scheme has been introduced. Now, more importantly, Clause 2.4 of the Action Plan dated 21st March, 2016 relates to the protection of life and property of the senior citizens for which the following provisions have been made which are being reproduced hereinafter:- 124. Additionally, in order to give an impetus to the protection of life and property of the senior citizens, the State Government has also dedicated a helpline for Senior Citizens and an initiative has been made under the aegis of "Savera Scheme" for older residents. A Helpline Number 112 has been dedicated for the Savera Scheme, where the senior citizens can get themselves registered. 125. The Scheme is targetted towards senior citizens who can seek assistance through the helpline, to contact to the nearest police station or the police response vehicle can reach to the doorstep of such a senior citizen in need and where he can be provided with timely aid and his security concerns can be addressed, too. 126. On 29th November, 2023, the Police Headquarters issued a SOP for effective implementation of the Savera Scheme which is being reproduced hereinafter for ready reference:- ॥. 'सवेरा योजना' में पंजीकृत बरिष्ठ नागरिकों के संबंध में सूचना को अद्यावधिक कराये जाने हेतु बीट कांस्टेबल को बीट बार वरिष्ठ नागरिकों के नाम आवंटित करेंगें। III. वरिष्ठ नागरिक के पंजीकरण के पश्चात थाने के बीट कांस्टेबल एवं हल्का इंचार्ज / चौकी इंचार्ज को मौके पर भेजकर बरिष्ठ नागरिकों से मिलकर सूचना अद्यावधिक (Update) करायेंगे। IV. थाना स्तर पर आयोजित होने वाली संत्रांत नागरिकों / शांति सुरक्षा समिति की बैठक में सवेरा में पंजीकृत वरिष्ठ नागरिकों को भी आमंत्रित करेंगें। V. कम्युनिटी पुलिसिंग के अंतर्गत बीट कांस्टेबल एवं हल्का इंचार्ज / चौकी इंचार्ज अपने बीट, हल्का / चौकी क्षेत्र के गांव । मोहल्ला के वरिष्ठ नागरिकों से व्यक्तिगत रूप से समय-समय पर मिलकर उनका हाल-चाल पूछते हुए उनकी मदद करेंगे साथ ही उन्हें सुरक्षा का बोध करायेंगे। 4. बीट पुलिस कर्मी के कार्य एवं दायित्व- (1) अपनी बीट के गांव / मोहल्ले के वरिष्ठ नागरिकों का पंजीकरण करेंगे। (i) जिन वरिष्ठ नागरिकों का पंजीकरण हो चुका है उनके संबंध में सूचना को अद्यावधिक करेंगे। (1) बीट कांस्टेबल अपनी बीट के पंजीकृत वरिष्ठ नागरिकों का समय-समय पर सत्यापन करेंगे तथा कम से कम 03 माह में एक बार उनका हाल-चाल लेमा अवश्य सुनिश्चित करेंगे। 5. चौकी प्रभारी / हल्का इंचार्ज के कार्य एवं दायित्व - (1) अपने चौकी / हल्का क्षेत्र में पड़ने वाले समस्त गांव। मोहल्ले के यरिष्ठ नागरिकों का पंजीकरण सुनिश्चित करायेंगे। (1) जिन वरिष्ठ नागरिकों का पंजीकरण हो चुका है उनके संबंध में सूवना को अद्यावधिक करेंगे। (M) प्रत्येक 03 माह में कम से कम 01 बार अपनी बीट के पंजीकृत समस्त बरिष्ठ नागरिकों का सत्यापन कर उनका हाल-चाल लेंगे तथा उनकी मदद करेंगे। 6. नोडल अधिकारी यूपी-112 के कार्य एवं दायित्व- वरिष्ठ नागरिकों के पंजीकरण की समीक्षा प्रतिभाड़ करते हुए कृत कार्रवाई की सूचना यूपी-112 मुख्यालय को संलग्न प्रारूप (संलग्नह-2) में उपलब्ध करायेंगे। 7. पर्यवेक्षण- कमिश्ररेट / जनपद स्तर पर- प्रतिमाह धानावार सवेरा योजना में पंजीकरण एवं अद्यावधिक की गयी सूचना के संबंध में समीक्षा पुलिस कमिश्नरराजनपदीय पुलिस अधीक्षकत्वरिष्ठ पुलिस अधीक्षक द्वारा की जायेगी। (३) रेंज/जोन स्तर पर प्रत्येक 03 माह में रेंज फोन स्तर पर 'सवेरा योजना' में पंजीकरण एवं SOP के अनुरूप की गयी कार्रवाई की समीक्षा की जायेगी। उक्त SOP पुलिस महानिदेशक उत्तर प्रदेश महोदय के अनुमोदन के उपरान्त निर्गत की जा रही है।" 131. On the plain reading of the aforesaid provision, it would indicate that to activate, the said section, certain conditions as mentioned therein must exist:- 132. If the aforesaid three conditions co-exist then such a transfer made at the option of the transferor shall be deemed to have been made by fraud or coercion or under undue influence and at the option of the transferor be declared void by the Tribunal. 133. This is another method to protect and create a safe environment for the senior citizen so that they may not fall an easy prey for unscrupulous people who may or may not include the children/relatives or third persons (including care givers) who may take advantage of the senior citizen especially those who are residing on their own or may be dependent on such persons due to frailties accompanying their age. 134. This Section 23 as noticed above pre-supposes three conditions before it can be pressed into service. The very fact that the three conditions exist, then the deeming provision pre-supposes that such transfer is occasioned by fraud, coercion and undue influence, making the transaction vulnerable for being declared void by the Tribunal, at the behest of the transferor. 135. As noticed above, the Tribunal is constituted under Section 7 which is manned by an officer not below the rank of the Sub Divisional Officer of the State. Moreover, the Tribunal has been conferred with the powers to declare an instrument as envisaged in Section 23 as void. The word 'void' implies, something being not valid and not binding since inception. Hence, in that limited context where a transferee who is given exclusive possession or a right in the property of the senior citizen, by virtue of a conditional instrument, as mentioned in Section 23 of the Act of 2007 then the moment such an instrument is declared void by the Tribunal which takes effect from the date of the instrument, then, where necessary, the possession can be recognized to be with the transferror i.e. the senior citizen from its inception and the Tribunal can hand over the possession by its order which can be implemented through the Authorities, utilizing the powers conferred on the District Magistrate in terms of Sections 21 , 22 read with Rules 21 and 22. 136. However, this does not necessarily mean to confer, either upon the Maintenance Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal or the District Magistrate, with powers to take on an adjudicatory role to deal with any intricate question relating to right, title or interest of party who may have set up a right, bonafide, which may be adverse to the senior citizens under the Act of 2007 and/or is engaging the attention of the regular courts or forum. 137. Having considered the overall scheme of the Act and looking into Section 23 as well as the pronouncement of the Apex Court in Urmila Dixit (Supra), it would reveal that the powers exercised by Maintenance Tribunal/Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, after declaring the instrument of transfer as void in terms of Section 23 , to pass necessary orders regarding possession in favour of the senior citizen including eviction of an undesirable person from the property of the senior citizen is consequential. 138. This consequential order of possession, or removal of any individual person from the property of the senior citizen is more in the nature of restitution than a power of eviction, as understood in traditional sense and is generally associated with rent and tenancy laws. 139. Generally, eviction orders are passed by the Competent Courts/ Authorities in terms of some statute or statutory rules and after ascertaining the rights of the parties and upon finding a party to be in breach of some provisions which entitles the other party to seek eviction of such a defaulting party. 140. The word restitution in its plain meaning means restoring anything unjustly taken from another. It has its roots in the Latin Maxim 'Restitituio'. The aforesaid principles of restitution is also expressly embodied in Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The word restitution was used earlier in common law to denote the return or repatriate of a specific thing or condition. In modern legal usage, its meaning has frequently been extended to include, not only the restoration or giving back of something to its rightful owner, but, also compensation, reimbursement, indemnifaciton or repatriation of benefit derived from or for loss or injury caused to another. 141. The principal of restitution also finds reflection in Sections 64 and 65 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. For the ease of reference, the aforesaid Sections 64 and 65 are being reproduced hereinafter:- 142. It is in this context that if Section 23 of the Act is seen, it would indicate that if the essential ingredients envisaged in Section 23 exist meaning thereby that a document is executed by a senior citizen on the premise that the person in whose favour such a document is executed shall maintain the said senior citizen. In case the transferee breaches the condition and the senior citizen brings an action in terms of Section 23 and the Tribunal declares the said document to be void, then as a concomitant, principal of restitution is attracted and it is in recognition of the said right of restitution that the Maintenance Tribunal can issue an order restoring the possession to the senior citizen. 143. The basic concept of a document as mentioned and referred in terms of Section 23 of the Act of 2007 indicates that it encapsulates reciprocal obligations upon the transfree/donee and upon violation of such obligation it renders the instrument void and in such circumstances any benefit accrued to the transfree/donee automatically comes to an end and in such circumstances alone can the possession be restored to the senior citizen. This is for the reason that even while the document is executed both the donor/transfree (the senior citizen) and the transfree/donee (the legal heir or third party) are in possession and it is not as if the third party is in exclusive possession to the exclusion of the transferor/donor/the senior citizen, hence, the possession which is restored is that of the transferor/donor/the senior citizen. The possession claimed by the transfree/donee/the third party is emanating only from the said instrument executed which casts recriprocal obligation to take care of the transferor/senior citizen and upon it being held as a nullity then such possession cannot be perpetuated and it has to revert back to the transferor/senior citizen by drawing strength from the principles of restitution. 144. On the other hand, in ordinary and normal circumstances, any dispute between a senior citizen and his opponent, are to be adjudicated in the Civil Courts or other Forums which may be available as per law and in such Civil Courts or Forums, the judicial officers or the Authorities, as the case may be, be more sensitive to give priority, keeping in mind the provisions of Section 21 (ii) of the Act of 2007 read with Rule 21 and 22 of the Rules of 2014. The State or the District Magistrate who has been obligated in terms of Section 19 and 20 of the Act read with Rules 21 and 22 are required only to create a strengthened social framework for the social security of the senior citizens. 145. However, the Act or the Rules do not confer or create a special forum or a special authority with overriding powers or authority to do something in terms of the Act of 2007 which is otherwise available only with the regular courts and authorities. The overriding powers of this Act in terms of Section 3 is limited only to the extent of powers conferred on the Tribunal or the Authority which they have to discharge in terms of the Act of 2007 and not beyond that. The traditional forums and courts are free to proceed with the matters in accordance with law which are not covered by the matters which are within the ambit and jurisdiction of Maintenance Tribunal, Appellate Tribunal in terms of the Act of 2007. 146. Traditionally, a right of evicting a person is entrenched in the rent laws or in terms of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 or Transfer of Property Act, 1882 . The Tribunal as envisaged under the Act of 2007 is an Authority of limited jurisdiction and that too dealing with issues of maintenance only up to a limit of Rs. 10,000/-. The word ' property' as defined in the Act is of a very wide connotation and includes both movable and immovable, tangible or intangible, ancestral or self-acquired. It does not appear to be to the intention of the Act to bypass the provisions of the other Act relating to the power of eviction, inasmuch as, otherwise where a Tribunal who is competent to pass a maintenance order, maximum up to a limit of Rs. 10,000/- cannot indirectly be empowered to deal with the property of a senior citizen which may exceed many times the value of Rs. 10,000/-and in garb thereof the Tribunal or Authority under the Act of 2007 may enter into the realm of other regular courts and forum established by law, having jurisdiction over the subject matter. 147. Now, with the promulgation of the Act of 2007, if it is assumed that the Tribunal or the District Magistrate has the Authority to order an eviction then such power has to have some source within the Act of 2007 and only then it can be pressed into service or else it will amount to an indirect method to achieve something whch has not been conferred by the Act directly, and such an interpretation would not be desirable. 148. It is true that the Act of 2007 is a social beneficial legislation for the senior citizens/parents and it should be construed liberally in their favour yet it also must be kept in mind that the rules of interpretation do not give right to the Court to read into a legislation or a provision of the Act a power which otherwise is conspicuously absent as shall be evident from the reading of the scheme of the Act and the rules framed thereunder. 149. It is now well settled that the courts do not legislate rather it interprets the law. Even though, the Act of 2007 is a social beneficial legislation but it cannot be lost sight off that the courts do not read something into the Act which has not been provided. It is the golden rule of intrepretation of statute that the Act must be read in the manner with all the words and provisions and to make it workable keeping in mind that all the sections are given full effect and no provisions as far as possible is made redundant or superfluous. 150. The court may be tempted to read something into the Act by invoking the doctrine of Casus Omissus but even to do so even in a social beneficial legislation, while taking an approach of purposive interpretation, there are guidelines and unless the said guidelines are attracted, the court under the cloak of exercising the power of interpretation is not empowered to re-write the law. In Union of India v. Deoki Nandan Aggarwal , 1992 Supp (1) SCC 323, the Apex Court has held as under:- 151. In Maulavi Hussein Haji Abraham Umarji v. State of Gujarat , (2004) 6 SCC 672, the Apex Court has held as under:- 23. The golden rule for construing wills, statutes and, in fact, all written instruments has been thus stated: 152. Once, the legislature while framing the Act and the Rules has not conferred such powers of eviction nor there is any indication that such powers have been conferred either in the action plan then in such circumstances, it will not be appropriate for this Court to read something into the Act and invest an Authority or Tribunal with limited jurisdiction with certain powers which the legislature in its wisdom had consciously excluded from the domain of such Authority or Tribunal. 153. It is in the aforesaid backdrop that Section 23 is treated as a stand alone section and only upon the adherence of the three pre-conditions, that the said section comes into play and only in such circumstances which are limited and explained hereinabove, can in a limited case upon an order being passed by the Maintenance Tribunal/Appellate Tribunal declaring the instrument as void can, as a necessary corollary and as consequential impact of the order, the possession may be put back with the senior citizen and only to that limited extent, the Tribunal may pass an order of restitution that can be implemented and if need be through the District Magistrate by taking aid of the police authorities. 154. In our country we adhere to the rule of law. Possession of a party is viewed with sanctity and any act of a person to disturb the possession is viewed seriously. Significantly, there is a distinction which has to be kept in mind considering an act where a person may be in the actual process of trespassing as opposed to a situation where a person may have tresspassed and settled his possession. 155. In this regard, the observations of the Apex Court in Ram Rattan Vs. State of U.P. (1977) 1 SCC 188; will be relevant which is reproduced as under:- 156. It will be relevant to observe that injunction is one of the most prolific preventive reliefs which are sought and granted by the courts, however, the Tribunal or the District Magistrate under the Act of 2007 or in terms of Rules of 2014 have not been invested with any such power. 157. Thus, where the Tribunal or the District Magistrate does not have the power to grant the injunction to prevent a breach of the legal obligation and then to suggest that the same Tribunal or the District Magistrate in absence of any clear conferment of power has been granted the power to evict a person becomes incongruous. 158. There might be a situation where some substantive proceedings are pending in a court of law which involves a senior citizen/a parent where contentious questions may be under consideration including a relief of possession/eviction. Then whether simultaneously it can be said that the senior citizen/parent may approach the Tribunal or the District Magistrate and may obtain an order of eviction/possession through summary proceedings while the other party remains engaged before the regular courts also does not seem to be in consonance with the Scheme of the Act and the Rules. 159. Thus, for all the aforesaid reasons, this Court opines that the powers exercised in terms of Section 21 of the Act of 2007 or in terms of Rule 21 and 22 of the Rules of 2014 cannot include passing of an order of eviction except as explained above, where Section 23 of the Act of 2007 applies. G.	Summary and Answers to the Questions Referred:- 160. In light of the detailed discussions hereinabove we summarize and answer the reference as under:- 161. The reference is answered accordingly. 162. The matter shall now be placed before the Court concerned for its decisions on merits. Order Date :- 27th May, 2025
 
Asheesh/- (Subhash Vidyarthi, J.), (Jaspreet Singh, J.). (Attau Rahman Masoodi, J.)