An American rapper from the US state of California has filed a class-action lawsuit against music streaming service Spotify for allegedly turning a blind eye to people artificially inflating their streams with bots.

The complaint alleges that “bad actors” have been fraudulently increasing the audience count for certain artists, including famous Canadian rapper Drake, through the use of bots. For context, a bot is an automated software programmed to repeatedly stream certain songs or albums in order to inflate the total number of streams.

The complaint argued that since Spotify provides royalty revenue to artists through a common pool, an artificial increase in one creator’s streaming count means a decrease in the revenue available to others. It also alleged that Spotify failed to detect and curb inauthentic streams, despite public assurances to the contrary.

The lawsuit seeks monetary damages reflecting the royalty income that class members lost because of fraudulent streams, as well as punitive damages from Spotify. The music streaming platform declined to comment on the lawsuit, but asserted that it did not benefit from artificial streaming.

It is worth noting that litigation over fake streams is a comparatively new phenomenon. Last year, US authorities arrested a man who uploaded more than 100,000 AI-generated songs to multiple platforms and then used bots to inflate his audience. In doing so, he was able to steal millions of dollars in royalty revenue.

The complaint alleged that although Drake had the highest streams on Spotify, a substantial portion of these streams between January 2022 and September 2025 were inauthentic. The plaintiff asserted that these came from a large network of bot accounts that used VPNs to disguise their origins.

He further alleged that huge volumes of streams originated from areas with no residential population, that geolocation data showed users travelling impossible distances between playing songs, and that Drake’s streaming patterns defied normal release-and-decay trends by exhibiting unexplained surges months or years after release.

According to the complaint, many accounts streamed Drake’s music virtually nonstop, and a very small percentage of users generated a disproportionately large share of his overall streams. Interestingly, the complainant stated that many of Drake’s listeners seemed to listen to his song for 23 hours every day.He claimed that this artificial activity inflated Drake’s streaming share and diverted royalties totalling hundreds of millions of dollars.

The complaint also asserted that Spotify knew or should have known of these anomalies as they were statistically implausible and easily detectable, yet it failed to act, leaving the fraudulent streams unaddressed and the resulting revenues improperly distributed.

The complaint alleged that Drake’s case illustrated a wider pattern of rampant streaming fraud that Spotify allowed to flourish through negligence or wilful blindness. It claimed that Spotify was one of the easiest platforms to exploit because of its lax bot-detection measures and free, ad-supported model.

Interestingly, the plaintiff claimed Spotify had a financial incentive to ignore fraudulent activity, as inflated stream volumes increased advertising revenue. According to the complaint, Spotify’s countermeasures repeatedly failed over several years, permitting billions of inauthentic streams and misleading rights holders by overstating its commitment to detecting and preventing fraud.

Elsewhere, the complaint alleged that Spotify was negligent in its “duty of care” to the plaintiff and the class to monitor streaming activity, and prevent the use of bots to inflate stream counts.

The plaintiff alleges that despite having detailed data that should have alerted Spotify about manipulation, the music platform failed to detect or address artificial streaming. It instead allowed inflated numbers to benefit certain artists at the expense of others.

Elsewhere, the plaintiff further claimed that Spotify violated California’s competition law by misrepresenting its anti-fraud measures, and concealing ongoing fraud to protect advertising revenue.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event