The Telangana government plans to form a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to take action against online betting platforms, Chief Minister A. Revanth Reddy stated on March 26. According to a report by The News Minute , the CM was responding to a statement from Bharat Rashtra Samithi (BRS) member T. Harish Rao, who urged the government to take stringent action against such platforms.

Reddy stated that the SIT would comprise officials from the CBCID (Crime Branch of the Crime Investigation Department) or other wings and expressed his intention to amend the state’s existing anti-gambling law if necessary. He voiced concern over the rise of online gambling platforms and asserted that those responsible for promoting or managing such platforms would face strict legal consequences.

The CM stated that merely questioning individuals who promoted such platforms was not sufficient and that the state needed a “strong investigative mechanism to lay a permanent barrier.”

Telangana has seen a wave of youngsters gambling on online platforms, with many of them falling into financial distress and even committing suicide.

The state’s police are currently cracking down on actors and celebrities who have endorsed online gambling applications. FIRs have been filed against 25 celebrities, including Rana Daggubati, Prakash Raj, and Vijay Deverakonda.

The state banned online gaming in 2017 through an amendment to the existing Telangana Gaming Act (1974). Last week, the Telangana Cyber Security Bureau (TGCSB) blocked a total of 108 illegal betting websites and served notices to 133 India-based platforms to restrict access in the state. The Bureau also issued a public advisory citing strict legal action against those found playing, promoting, or facilitating online gambling.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event