SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Does anyone else feel bad for customer support team?
DATE: 2021-12-29
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/rrbqop/does_anyone_else_feel_bad_for_customer_support/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is all about appreciation and patience of customer support guys. They have to deal with so many frustrated people all because the company they work for are really shitty. Most of the indian companies have really shitty service and in the end, it's the customer support guys who end up facing the frustration of the angry customers. 
from a customer's point of view, they are correct as well. Most of the times customers are so frustrated with the service that they have no choice but explain and they find these guys to complain. 

Some of the prime examples where really shitty service is provided by companies is reliance digital (online part only), ecom express (one of the most defaulter companies) , oneplus,m (too much red tape), aquaguard(refusal of service or unplanned delay) and a huge list of other companies. I can go on and on about this.

It's just not that these companies dont provide service on time. It gotten worse to such a level that they outright refuse the service or make it so frustrating for the customer that the customer has no option but to leave.

I have been going through offical channel of many so called startups or relatively new companies and they have all this really shitty service in common. From the complaints, it has gotten so worse that you start feeing bad for customers and the customer support team who handles with such customer

I guess we are at that stage where these companies can literally do any cheating and still get away with it. The management in these companies don't care about service or these executives because if they did they would be actively working on getting the problem fixed. From my personal experience and some colleagues in the industry, customer support team is literally one of those teams which is treated as lowest priority and in some cases inhumane. 

Customer used to be a god and now their condition is worse than a beggar. This is what happens when you have faceless entities.