The Central Government has unveiled the Jago Grahak Jago app, the Jagriti app, and the Jagriti dashboard to equip the Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) with identification tools for dark patterns on e-commerce platforms and safeguard consumers. The Government said these measures were undertaken in response to threats to India’s 950 million consumers on e-commerce platforms. The new launches come amid continued issues around dark patterns on e-commerce platforms.

In November 2023, the DoCA notified guidelines for the prevention and regulation of dark patterns, incorporating additional dark patterns like trick questions, saas billing, and rogue malware in addition to expanding the definitions of previously listed dark patterns like forced action and bait & switch. The guidelines were first published in September 2023, after a two-month consultation with e-commerce platforms, law firms, government bodies, and consumer protection organisations. They defined dark patterns as “any practices or deceptive design patterns using UI/UX (user interface/user experience) interactions on any platform; designed to mislead or trick users to do something they originally did not intend or want to do”. However, the draft guidelines drew criticism from multiple sources noting concerns like inadequate definitions, restrictive listing, and regulatory overlap with preexisting regulations like the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) Dark Pattern Guidelines, Misleading Ads Guidelines, Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023, and Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020.

Simultaneously, the government organised a hackathon wherein participants had to create and test software-based solutions and applications to identify dark pattern features on e-commerce websites.

In August 2024, an ASCI report disclosed that 80% of the Indian apps it analysed manipulated users into unknowingly sharing more information than intended through utilising 12 primary types of dark patterns. Other than privacy deception, the most common dark patterns found were interface interference (highlighting some areas of the interface, while hiding others, and misleading users into taking action) and drip pricing (revealing extra fees during the purchase process, inflating the final price).

Additionally, as per a LocalCircles survey with 11,000 responses, consumers reported drip pricing, basket sneaking, and bait & switch as the top three dark patterns. The DoCA Dark Pattern guidelines define basket sneaking as the “inclusion of additional items like products, services, and payments to charity/donations during checkout from a platform”, without consent, leading to inflation of the total amount payable by the user. Additionally, bait & switch refers to a platform/seller deceptively serving customers an alternative outcome after advertising a particular outcome based on the user’s action. To clarify, even though a seller might provide a high-quality product at a low cost, the platform might offer a more costly but comparable product as a replacement if the seller’s product is “out of stock” or no longer available for purchase.

LocalCircles also found Zepto not complying with its promise of free delivery for eligible customers like those with the Zepto Pass, among other complaints.

Users have also noted similar practices on food delivery platforms Swiggy and Zomato , with customers being charged tips for delivery partners and automatic additions of products to their carts without their consent. Additionally, multiple LocalCircles surveys have also disclosed ample presence of dark patterns on online travel , banking , insurance , and event ticketing platforms, among others.

Taking note of customer concerns, in October 2024, the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) announced plans to address the violation of dark pattern norms by e-commerce companies during festive season sales, The Economic Times reported .

The Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Pralhad Joshi also launched a revamped version of its National Consumer Helpline Portal or ‘NCH 2.0’ with multilingual support through AI-powered chatbots on National Consumer Day 2024. Further, the minister inaugurated the Organic Food Testing Laboratory and the Low Voltage Switch Gear Testing Facility at the National Test House in Guwahati and Mumbai respectively to improve food standards among other aims.

Thirteen e-commerce platforms including the Reliance group, Ola, Zomato, Swiggy, etc also signed a consumer safety pledge ensuring compliance with product safety regulations and providing consumers with mechanisms to report safety concerns.

While the government looks at launching new helplines and apps to ensure consumer rights protection, previous attempts at the same, have not accumulated great success. For instance, despite NCH allowing customers to lodge complaints and seek redressal, concerns have been raised about the lack of consumer awareness of the laws and due process to be followed in case of violation of their rights. Besides this, over 82,000 and 40,000 consumer cases are pending in the consumer redressal forums of Maharashtra and Gujarat respectively, with other states following suit as of October 2024. This information was revealed in response to MP Krishna Prasad Tenneti’s Lok Sabha question about pending matters before consumer forums.

Speaking to MediaNama about the limited success of government initiatives against dark patterns, Founder of LocalCircles, Sachin Taparia explains, “Government apps so far tend to oversimplify and classify routine features also as dark patterns, which ultimately hurts the government’s credibility”. Going forward, he advocated that such apps should classify dark patterns and consumer-perceived dark patterns separately, reasoning that the latter often overlaps with design/interface issues or inadvertent errors.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event