(Judgment of the Court was delivered by T.S.SIVAGNANAM, J.) 1. This appeal filed by the revenue is directed against the order dated

26.11.2019 passed by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate

Tribunal, East Regional Bench, Kolkata (tribunal) in Appeal No.

77086/2017. The revenue has raised the following substantial questions of

law for consideration:- 65.40 Lakhs by the respondent to the appellant does not prove
 admission of liability and involvement of the respondent
 functioning as importer itself. (e) Whether statements made by the director of the respondent
 admitting the offence and the involvement thereto binds the
 respondent company? 2. We have heard Ms. Manasi Mukherjee, learned standing counsel for

the appellant and Mr. Arnab Chakraborty, learned advocate, Bar-At-Law

assisted by Mr. Aniket Chaudhury, learned advocate for the respondent. 3. The respondent is a Customs Broker having been granted the licence

under the provisions of the Customs Broker Licensing Regulations, 2013

(CBLR). The respondent came to adverse notice of the department with Page 2 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

regard to the certain import consignments where the combined net weight of

the goods imported were manipulated. In this regard, an offence report was

drawn by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and communicated to

the appellant department. The respondent's licence was initially suspended

and thereafter by order dated 21.09.2017, the licensing was revoked and the

security deposit ordered to be forfeited. Challenging the same, the

respondent preferred appeal before the tribunal which has been allowed and

aggrieved by such order, the revenue is before us by way of this appeal. 4. On perusal of the order passed by the tribunal, we find that relief has

been granted to the respondent on the purported ground that the

statements recorded from various persons are inconsistent with each other.

On reading of the impugned order, we get a feeling that the tribunal

assumed the role of a criminal court examining the case of an accused, who

has been charged of a criminal offence such as an offence under the Indian

Penal Code . The tribunal lost sight of an important fact that what is called

in question before it is the correctness of an order passed by the

Commissioner of Customs revoking a licence granted to the respondent

under the provisions of the CBLR 2013. The other legal principle which has

been ignored by the tribunal is that, in cases like that of the case on hand

requirement is not proof beyond reasonable doubt and action can be

initiated by applying the principles of preponderance of probability. The

statement recorded from the Director of the respondent under Section 108 of the Customs Act clearly shows that there is admission of guilt. The Weigh

Bridge Operator of the Container Corporation Limited has been a party to Page 3 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

the entire manipulation. The tribunal faults the appellant department for

not taking action against the employee of the Container Corporation

Limited. The said person has not committed any offence under the CBLR,

2013 for the Commissioner to take action. The tribunal also ignored certain

vital provisions of the CBLR. It failed to note that under Regulation 8 of the

CBLR, the respondent has executed a bond and furnished security before

the grant of licence binding himself to due observance of the provisions of

CBLR, 2013. The obligations on the Customs Broker/respondent have been

clearly and elaborately enumerated in Regulation 11 . The respondent cannot

"wash his hands" by stating that notices issued by the department to the

importer could not be served and in order to mitigate the liability, the

respondent had paid Rs. 65,00,000/-. The appellant on examining the

conduct of the respondent held him to be the de facto importer. In terms of

the CBLR 2013, the KYC norms have to be fulfilled before the Customs

Broker accepts to handle the cargo of any one of the parties. If the KYC

norms had been complied with, the respondent cannot be heard to say that

the whereabouts of the importer are not known. Nothing prevented the

respondent to bring the importer to the scene by the making him appear

before the authorities to give a statement. The fact that the respondent did

not do so but on the contrary paid the sum of Rs. 65,00,000/- towards the

part of the duty liability clearly shows that the respondent was the de facto

importer and the appellant was fully justified in coming to such a

conclusion. The respondent cannot be heard to say that he cannot identify

the importer. If the respondent is protecting the so-called importer or if the

importer is a non-existent person, then it is the respondent who has to be Page 4 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

held to be the principal offender and rightly action was initiated against the

respondent. On going through the relevant portion of the statement of the

concerned persons, as has been recorded in the order of revocation dated

21.09.2017, we find there is no such inconsistency as having

microscopically examined by the tribunal. Even before us, Mr. Chakraborty

seeks to point out such discrepancies. In fact, we have faulted the tribunal

for doing such a exercise and we cannot be called upon to commit the same

mistake. It is relevant to take note of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Shri Kamakshi Agency wherein the role of the Customs House

Agent has been explained in the following terms:- CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020 6. Lastly, the tribunal has proceeded to invoke the doctrine of

 proportionality and held to the punishment of revocation of licence to be

 very harsh. In our view, such observation and order passed by the tribunal

 is based on misplaced sympathy. It is to be noted that there is no vested

 right in the respondent to handle cargo in a Customs area and such right is

 conferred pursuant to a licence granted under the CBLR 2013 which licence

 comes with conditions and the respondent has bound himself to comply

 with the conditions and the relevant laws by executing a bond and

 furnishing a security deposit. The trust and confidence reposed on the

 respondent as a Customs House Agent is in a higher pedestal and he serves

 as a link between the client and the department and is bound to be neutral

 and righteous. The doctrine of proportionality was considered in the case of

 Welcome Air Express Private Limited Versus Commissioner of Customs

 (Airport and Administration) wherein after taking note of the various

 decisions it was held as follows: 7. In Union of India and Another Versus G. Ganayutham 1, the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court considered the position of proportionality in

 administrative law in England and India and held as follows: Punishment in disciplinary matters: Similar view was taken in Indian Oil Corporation Versus Ashok
 Kumar Arora [1997 (3) SCC 72] that the Court will not intervene
 unless the punishment is wholly disproportionate. 8. In Coimbatore District Central Cooperative Bank while considering

 the doctrine of proportionality it was held as follows: 9. In Chairman Cum Managing Director Coal India Limited and

 Another Versus Mukul Kumar Chowdhury and Others 2, the doctrine of

 proportionality was explained in the following terms: 10. The above decisions were taken note of in OTA Kandla Private

 Limited and it was held as follows: 11. Mr. Chakraborty elaborately referred to the order passed by the

 tribunal more particularly paragraphs 7 to 12 wherein the learned tribunal

 has referred to the submissions made on behalf of the respondent. The

 learned advocate has referred to paragraph 17 of the impugned order to

 demonstrate that the tribunal had taken note of the contradictory

 statement of Shri Ratan Baidya regarding suppression of weight of the Page 12 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

imported consignments and had mentioned in his statement that 63

weighment slips were tendered however, only 5 weighment slips were relied

upon by the DRI for the purpose of investigation. It is pointed out that the

learned tribunal rightly held that there is no explanation in the order of

revocation regarding mis-declaration of the net weight. Further it is

submitted that the learned tribunal rightly held that the statement dated

05.09.2016 of Shri Ratan Baidya is further contradictory when he stated

that from March 2016, he had manipulated weight of more than 100

containers of old and used garment handled by the respondent company.

However, in his statement dated 07.09.2016, he stated that the weight was

manipulated since last 3 to 4 months. Therefore, the tribunal noted a

plethora of contradictions in the statement of Shri Ratan Baidya and

rightly granted relief in favour of the respondent company. In the earlier

part of this judgment we had mentioned above the scope of the interference

by the learned tribunal over order passed by the licensing authority under

CBLR, 2013. We also noted the legal principle of Preponderance of

Probabilities which is required to be applied and not proof beyond

reasonable doubt. Bearing this in mind, when we examine the order passed

by the licensing authority dated 21.09.2017 by which the license was

revoked, the statement of Shri Subhasish Bhattachariya, Director of the

respondent company recorded under Section 108 of the Act on 03.09.2016,

05.09.2016 and 11.11.2016 were taken note of. There is a clear admission

that there was a mis-declaration in the weight of the imported

consignment, and that the weigh bridge operator of CONCOR-CFS Kolkata

used to ask staff of the respondent about the declared weight in the Bill of Page 13 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

Lading or IGM and used to issue weighment slip matching with the

declared weight. Further he had stated that the customs authorities never

checked the weight of the packing materials of the bills of the old and used

clothing but relied on the declaration in the imported documents. Further

he had stated that after examination by the customs, the weighment slips

were destroyed by the respondent company. Shri Marinmoy Das, another

Director of the respondent in his statement under Section 108 of the Act

recorded on 15.09.2016 stated that no weighment slips were found from

their office by the DRI as they were destroyed as per the instructions of the

importer because the weight of the consignment were not as per

declaration. Further he had stated that Shri Subhasish Bhattachariya had

taken care of the entire operations and three G card holders of the

respondent had physically cleared the consignment through the customs.

Further the difference in declared weight and actual weight was admitted

to have revealed huge evasion of customs duty. Shri Ratan Baidya, weigh

bridge operator in his statement recorded under Section 108 on

05.09.2016 and 07.09.2016 admitted that for two years he worked as

weigh bridge operator and during March 2016, two representatives of the

respondent company approached him to manipulate the weight of

containers by entering cargo weight as given by them manually during

weighments and promised to pay Rs. 100 per container for such

manipulation and he being poor agreed to the proposal. Further he had

stated that he had manipulated weighments of more than 100 containers

handled by the respondent. The manipulated weighment slips were not

only handed over to the representatives of the respondent and the actual Page 14 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

weight and 6 containers were available in the computer installed in the

Weigh Bridge. The weigh bridge operator has specifically implicated the

Director of the respondent and the G Card holder who dealt with the cargo

on behalf of the respondent. The statement recorded from the transporter

shows that the declared weight of the container is much less than the

actual weight. As noted earlier, the importers did not respond to the

summons issued under Section 108 of the Act and the same were returned

undelivered with remark "not found/ not existed". Therefore, the licensing

authority concluded that the said importers are paper firms and the

respondent has kept the department in the dark about the identity of his

client and thus allowing them to evade customs duties. Furthermore, the

respondent company had deposited a sum of Rs. 65.40 lakhs by 26

demand drafts stated to be on behalf of the importers. The statements

which were recorded under Section 108 remained intact and were not

retracted except as stated by the Director of the company that there was an

attempted retraction in the statement recorded on 11.11.2016.

Nevertheless, such alleged retraction was also taken note of by the

authority while passing the order. Before the Commissioner, the

respondent company took a stand that they dealt with the documents

produced by the importers in good faith without apprehending any

manipulation in weight. If such is the submission, nothing prevented the

respondent from producing the importers before the authority which they

fail to do. On the contrary, part of the differential duty to the tune of Rs.

65.40 lakhs was remitted by the appellant, to be treated as voluntary

payment as there is no allegation that the respondent was compelled to pay Page 15 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

 due amount. This argument/admission before the Commissioner clearly

 shows that the respondent has failed to fulfill the obligation which has

 been fixed on them. Thus, it is clear that the tribunal has picked holes in

 the evidence brought on record by the licensing authority which not only

 probabilises but also establishes the violation committed by the respondent

 thereby giving no room for interference. 12. While on this issue it is educative to refer to the decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in M. Siddiq (Ram Janmabhumi Temple-5, J.)

Versus Suresh Das 3 whereunder the law on the standard of preponderance

of probabilities was explained:- (emphasis supplied) 721. The law recognises that within the standard of
 preponderance of probabilities, there could be different degrees 3 (2020) 1 SCC 1 Page 16 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

 of probability. This was succinctly summarised by Denning, L.J.
 in Bater v. Bater 4, where he formulated the principle thus: )p.37)

 "....So also in civil cases, the case must be proved by a
 preponderance of probability, but there may be degrees of
 probability within that standard. The degree depends on the
 subject-matter". 723. Proof of a fact depends upon the probability of its existence.
 The finding of the court must be based on: 335, para 24)

 "The belief regarding the existence of a fact may thus be founded
 on a balance of probabilities. A prudent man faced with
 conflicting probabilities concerning a fact situation will act on the
 supposition that the fact exists, if on weighing the various
 probabilities he find that the preponderance is in favour of the
 existence of the particular fact. As a prudent man, so the court
 applies this test for finding whether a fact in issue can be said to
 be proved. The first step in this process is to fix the probabilities,
 the second proved. The first step in this process is to fix the
 probabilities, the second to weigh them, though the two may
 often intermingle. The impossible is weeded out at the first stage,
 the improbable at the second. Within the wide range of
 probabilities the court has often a difficult choice to make but it is
 this choice which ultimately determines where the 4 1951 P 35 (CA) 5 (1975) 2 SCC 326 Page 17 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020

 preponderance of probabilities lies, Important issues like those
 which affect the status of parties demand a closer scrutiny than
 those like the loan on a promissory note: 'the nature and gravity
 of an issue necessarily determines the manner of attaining
 reasonable satisfaction of the truth of the issue 6, CLR at p. 210;
 or as said by Lord Denning, 'the degree of probability depends
 on the subject-matter'. In proportion as the offence is grave, so
 ought the proof to be clear7. All ER at p. 536'. But whether the
 issue is one of cruelty or of a loan on a pronote, the test to apply
 is whether on a preponderance of probabilities the relevant fact
 is proved. In civil cases this, normally is the standard of proof to
 apply for finding whether the burden of proof is discharged."
 (emphasis supplied) 13. Applying the test laid down as above, we have no hesitation to hold

that there exists more than sufficient probabilities to pin down the

respondent on the charge of violation of CBLR, 2013. 14. Mr. Chakraborty placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in H.B. Cargo Services Versus Commissioner of Customs

8 it was submitted that in the said case the period of license expired and

when the challenge to the revocation travelled up to the Hon'ble Supreme

Court, taking note of the fact that the said appellant had submitted an

application for grant of fresh CHA License, the application was directed to be

considered by the competent authority on its own merits uninfluenced by

the revocation order concerning the previous CHA licence. 6 Per Dixon, J. in Wright v. Wright , (1948) 77 CLR 191 (Aust). 7 Blyth v. Blyth, 1966 AC 643: (1966) 2 WLR 634: (1966) 1 All ER 524 (HL) 8 2021 (376) E.L.T. 241 (SC) Page 18 of 19 CUSTA NO. 16 OF 2020 15. It is pointed out that licence granted to the respondent is to expire on

22.07.2022 and in the event this Court does not agree with his submissions,

the relief as granted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court can be considered in the

case of the respondent. 16. The decision in HB Cargo Services is in the nature of a concession

granted by the department before the Hon'ble Supreme Court which led to

issuance of such direction. Ms. Manasi Mukherjee, learned standing counsel

for the appellant submitted that the appellant department is entitled to take

note of the conduct of the appellant even if an application for renewal was

held to be maintainable. We agree with such submissions. Thus, we are of

the view that the decision in HB Cargo Services does not render assistance

to the case of the respondent. 17. In the result, we find that the order passed by the tribunal suffers

from errors of law and perversity calling for interference. 18. In the result, the appeal filed by the revenue is allowed and the

substantial questions of law are answered in favour of the revenue. (T.S. SIVAGNANAM, J.)

 I agree. (BIVAS PATTANAYAK, J.)

(P.A - SACHIN) Page 19 of 19