What’s the news: The Dutch Data Protection Authority (DPA) imposed a fine of Euros 290 million on cab aggregator company Uber for transferring personal data of European taxi drivers to the United States without appropriate safeguards. As per the Dutch DPA’s press release, Uber ended the violation although it intends to object to the fine.

Citing Uber’s failing as a “serious violation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR),” Dutch DPA chairman Aleid Wolfsen said, “In Europe, the GDPR protects the fundamental rights of people, by requiring businesses and governments to handle personal data with due care. But sadly, this is not self-evident outside Europe. Think of governments that can tap data on a large scale. That is why businesses are usually obliged to take additional measures if they store personal data of Europeans outside the European Union. Uber did not meet the requirements of the GDPR to ensure the level of protection to the data with regard to transfers to the US. That is very serious.”

Sensitive data: The Dutch watchdog began investigation after the French authorities communicated complaints of over 170 drivers regarding data security. The DPA found that Uber had collected sensitive information concerning account details, taxi licences, location data, photos, payment details, identity documents, and in some cases even criminal and medical data of European drivers, and retained it on servers in the US. Uber transferred this data for over two years without using transfer tools that could have provided sufficient data protections.

This is the third fine that the data protection authority has imposed on Uber. It previously imposed a fine of Euros 600,000 on Uber in 2018 for unauthorised access to customers’ and drivers’ persona data. Then in 2023, the watchdog again fined the company Euros 10 million for failing to disclose the full details of its data retention periods and disclosing which non-European countries had access to this data. The DPA also found that Uber had complicated the process by which drivers asked to view or receive copies of their personal data. Uber has objected to this fine, as per a Dutch DPA press release on January 31, 2024.

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event