The Delhi High Court has passed an interim injunction preventing people from misusing the image of journalist Rajat Sharma. Sharma and India TV had filed a case against entities that were using artificial intelligence (AI) to create doctored videos of Sharma.

The entities used these videos to promote drugs for diabetes, and prostatitis/joint pain claiming that eminent doctors created them or that the drugs are government-certified. Besides Sharma, the case document suggested that these entities also relied on the images of other popular figures such as Amitabh Bachchan and Dr Naresh Trehan.

The court found that besides containing the false endorsement, the videos also used registered trademarks for India TV and “Aaj Ki Baat: Rajat Sharma Ke Sath” without proper authorisation. It emphasised that Sharma’s professional standing as a journalist entailed a heightened sense of accountability and trustworthiness. As such, using his image to promote fraudulent remedies for serious health concerns constitutes a grave misuse of his personality rights.

Considering these facts, the court said that on a preliminary basis, the case is in Sharma’s favor. It said that Sharma and India TV would suffer irreparable injury if the court allowed the entities to continue posting the infringing videos/posts. As such, the court:

These restrictions are applicable till the next date of the case’s hearing, which is April 3, 2025.

Sharma isn’t the first one to seek to protect his personality rights. In fact, in recent years, multiple celebrities such as Amitabh Bachchan , Jackie Schroff , and Anil Kapoor have filed cases to protect against the wrongful use of their likeness and voice. Specifically, in Schroff and Kapoor’s cases, the two wanted to protect themselves against deepfake technology. In such cases, the actors involved established that given their celebrity status, they are entitled to personality rights over all aspects of their personality.

Sharma’s lawyers argue that he “satisfies the dual test of personality rights, viz having a valid and enforceable personality right on account of being a well-known reputed personality.” They emphasise that his reputed personality is clearly identifiable in the wrongful content that the entities posted. Sharma also sought the Delhi High Court’s assistance to protect his personality rights earlier this year . In that case, the court restricted other parties from using a logo similar to that of journalist Rajat Sharma’s IndiaTV show ‘Aap Ki Adalat’.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event