1. The petitioner, incarcerating upon his arrest in the FIR captioned above, came up
before this Court under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( CrPC ) seeking
bail. 2. In paragraph 12 of the petition, it is declared that the accused has no criminal
history. 3. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner contends that the pre-trial incarceration would
cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. 4. Ld. counsel appearing for the State contends that the petitioner misused the
provision of S. 375 IPC which was enacted to protect the womanhood, and falsely
implicate the deceased, which amounts to instigation and abetment to commit suicide.
The contention on behalf of the complainant is that a young life was lost due to greed
of the petitioner and if granted bail, she might spoil so many more lives, hence she
should never be released on bail. 1 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2022 20:52:17 ::: CRM-M-3134-2022

REASONING: The petitioner's brother Sudhir Mahipal and sister-in-law (Bhabhi) Anshu Malik
were also found to be innocent, as they were found to be residing abroad. (8). That on 01.12.2021, the bank statement of account no.
00211595903 of ICICI Bank of the petitioner was obtained. The petitioner was
arrested on 03.12.2021. Her disclosure statement was recorded wherein she
admitted that on 05.11.2020, by giving false information to the police, she had got
registered FIR No. 1117 of 2020 through the learned Court at Bulandshahr in P.S.
Kotwali Rural, Bulandshahr and that due to the said false case, Bharat Tyagi
committed suicide on 11.01.2021. Section 34 IPC was deleted from the present
case." 7. Given the details of deposits mentioned in the paragraphs mentioned above,
further incarceration at this stage would not be justified. 8. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v State of Punjab , 1980 (2) SCC 565, (Para 30), a
Constitutional Bench of Supreme Court held that the bail decision must enter the 2 2 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2022 20:52:17 ::: CRM-M-3134-2022

cumulative effect of the variety of circumstances justifying the grant or refusal of bail. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav , 2005 (2) SCC 42, (Para 18) a
three-member Bench of Supreme Court held that the persons accused of non-bailable
offences are entitled to bail if the Court concerned concludes that the prosecution has
failed to establish a prima facie case against him, or despite the existence of a prima
facie case, the Court records reasons for its satisfaction for the need to release such
person on bail, in the given fact situations. The rejection of bail does not preclude filing
a subsequent application. The courts can release on bail, provided the circumstances
then prevailing requires, and a change in the fact situation. In State of Rajasthan v
Balchand , AIR 1977 SC 2447, (Para 2 & 3), Supreme Court noticeably illustrated that the
basic rule might perhaps be tersely put as bail, not jail, except where there are
circumstances suggestive of fleeing from justice or thwarting the course of justice or
creating other troubles in the shape of repeating offences or intimidating witnesses and
the like by the petitioner who seeks enlargement on bail from the Court. It is true that
the gravity of the offence involved is likely to induce the petitioner to avoid the course
of justice and must weigh when considering the question of jail. So also, the
heinousness of the crime. In Gudikanti Narasimhulu v Public Prosecutor , (1978) 1 SCC
240, (Para 16), Supreme Court held that the delicate light of the law favors release
unless countered by the negative criteria necessitating that course. In Prahlad Singh
Bhati v NCT, Delhi , (2001) 4 SCC 280, Supreme Court highlighted one of the factors for
bail to be the public or the State's immense interest and similar other considerations. In Dataram Singh v State of Uttar Pradesh , (2018) 3 SCC 22, (Para 6), Supreme Court held
that the grant or refusal of bail is entirely within the discretion of the judge hearing the
matter and though that discretion is unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously,
compassionately, and in a humane manner. Also, conditions for the grant of bail ought
not to be so strict as to be incapable of compliance, thereby making the grant of bail
illusory. 9. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care
of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal, (2020) 5 SCC 1,
Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held that unusually, subject to the evidence
produced, the Courts can impose restrictive conditions. 10. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and
irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 11. In Mahidul Sheikh v. State of Haryana, CRM-33030-2021 in CRA-S-363-2020, 3 3 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2022 20:52:17 ::: CRM-M-3134-2022

decided on 14-01-2022, Para 53, this Court observed,
 [53]. The pragmatic approach is that while granting bail with
 sureties, the "Court" and the "Arresting Officer" should give a choice
 to the accused to either furnish surety bonds or to handover a fixed
 deposit, or direct electronic money transfer where such facility is
 available, or creating a lien over his bank account. The accused
 should also have a further option to switch between the modes. The
 option lies with the accused to choose between the sureties and
 deposits and not with the Court or the arresting officer. 12. Given above, provided the accused is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR mentioned above, subject to furnishing a
personal bond of Rs. Ten thousand (INR 10,000/-) and shall furnish one surety of Rs.
Twenty-five thousand (INR 25,000/-), to the satisfaction of the concerned Court/
Judicial Magistrate having the jurisdiction over the Police Station conducting the
investigation, and in case of non-availability, any nearest Ilaqa Magistrate/duty
Magistrate. Before accepting the sureties, the concerned Court must satisfy that if the
accused fails to appear in Court, then such surety is capable of producing the petitioner
before the Court. 13. In the alternative, the petitioner may furnish a personal bond of Rs. Ten
Thousand only (INR 10,000/-), and hand over to the concerned court a fixed deposit(s)
for Rs. Ten Thousand only (INR 10,000/-), made in favour of Chief Judicial Magistrate of
the concerned district. Said fixed deposit may be made from any of the banks where
the stake of the State is more than 50%, or any of the well-established and stable
private banks, with the clause of automatic renewal of the principal and the interest
reverting to the linked account. 14. The fixed deposit need not necessarily be made from the applicant's account. If
such a fixed deposit is made in physical form, i.e., on paper, then the original receipt
shall be handed over to the concerned court. If made online, its printout, countersigned
by the accused, shall be given; and the depositor shall get the online liquidation
disabled. The applicant shall inform the concerned branch of the bank at the earliest
that it has been tendered as surety. Such information be sent either by e-mail or by
post/courier about the fixed deposit, whether made on paper or in any other mode,
along with its number and FIR number. After that, the applicant shall hand over such
proof and endorsement to the concerned police station. Such court shall have a lien
over the deposit until the case's closure, or discharged by substitution, or up to the
expiry of the period mentioned under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, as the case may be. Subject
to the proceedings under S. 446 CrPC, the entire amount of fixed deposit, less taxes, if
any, shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. 15. It shall be the total discretion of the applicant to choose between surety bonds 4 4 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2022 20:52:17 ::: CRM-M-3134-2022

and fixed deposits. It shall also be open for the applicant to apply to the investigator or
the concerned court to substitute fixed deposit with surety bonds and vice-versa. 16. On the reverse page of personal bonds, the attesting officer shall mention the
permanent address of the petitioner along with the phone number linked with the
AADHAR card, the other phone numbers (if any), and e-mail (if any). In case of any
change in the above particulars, the petitioner shall immediately and not later than 30
days from such modification, intimate about the change to the concerned Police Station
and the concerned Court. 17. The petitioner to also execute a bond for attendance in the concerned Court(s), as
and when asked to do so. The presentation of the personal bond shall be deemed
acceptance of the following and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of this bail
order. 18. The petitioner shall be in deemed custody for Section 27 of the Indian Evidence
Act.The petitioner shall join the investigation as and when called by the Investigating
Officer or any Superior Officer; and shall cooperate with the investigation at all further
stages as might be required. In the event of failure to do so, it will be open for the
prosecution to seek cancellation of the bail. Whenever the investigation occurs within
the police premises, the petitioner shall not be called before 8 AM and shall be let off
before 6 PM, and shall not be subjected to third-degree, indecent language, inhuman
treatment, etc. 19. The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any inducement,
threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police officials, or any
other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of the case, to dissuade
them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to tamper with the
evidence. 20. Given the nature of allegations and the other circumstances peculiar to this case,
the petitioner shall surrender all weapons, firearms, ammunition, if any, along with the
arms license to the concerned authority within ten days of release from prison and
inform the Investigator about the compliance. However, subject to the Indian Arms Act,
1959 , the petitioner shall be entitled to renew and take it back in case of acquittal in
this case. 21. Till the completion of the trial, the petitioner shall not contact, call, text, message,
remark, stare, stalk, make any gestures or express any unusual or inappropriate, verbal
or otherwise objectionable behavior towards the victim and victim's family, either
physically, or through phone call or any other social media, through any other mode, 5 5 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2022 20:52:17 ::: CRM-M-3134-2022

nor shall unnecessarily roam around the victim's home. 22. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence
where the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condition as
stipulated in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for
cancellation of this bail. It shall further be open for any investigating agency to bring it
to the notice of the Court seized of the subsequent application that the accused was
earlier cautioned not to indulge in criminal activities. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall
continue to remain in force throughout the trial and after that in terms of Section 437-A of the CrPC. 23. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the petitioner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail order in any
language that the petitioner understands. 24. If the petitioner finds bond amount beyond social and financial reach, it may be
brought to the notice of this Court for appropriate reduction. Further, if the petitioner
finds bail condition(s) as violating fundamental, human, or other rights, or causing
difficulty due to any situation, then for modification of such term(s), the petitioner may
file a reasoned application before this Court, and after taking cognizance, even to the
Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be, and such Court shall also
be competent to modify or delete any condition. 25. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the Police or the
investigating agency from further investigation as per law. 26. In case the Investigator/Officer-In-Charge of the concerned Police Station arraigns
another section of any penal offence in this FIR, and if the new section prescribes
maximum sentence which is not greater than the sections mentioned above, then this
bail order shall be deemed to have also been passed for the newly added section(s).
However, suppose the newly inserted sections prescribe a sentence exceeding the
maximum sentence prescribed in the sections mentioned above, then, in that case, the
Investigator/Officer-In-Charge shall give the petitioner notice of a minimum of seven
days providing an opportunity to avail the remedies available in law. 27. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 28. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the
accused shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 29. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and 6 6 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2022 20:52:17 ::: CRM-M-3134-2022

any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer
wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. Petition allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand disposed.