This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the

 proceedings in C.C.No.1057 of 2014, pending on the file of the learned

 Judicial Magistrate at Tambaram sofar as it relates to the petitioners /

 A5 & A6 herein. 2. The brief facts, leading to filing of the present Criminal Original

 Petition, are as follows:- Registrar, Pallavaram. After the demise of her father, the complainant 2/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 and her brothers entered into a Deed of Partition, the above mentioned

 property partitioned vide Document Number: 1851 of 1972 and allotted

 to her. As a result, the complainant become the sole and absolute owner

 of the said property. At the time of partition, the complainant was only

 18 years old and after her marriage, she started living in her

 matrimonial home and as such, the above property belonging to her

 remained as a vacant land. As the complainant did not have sufficient

 funds, she could not develop the property and she hoped her son could

 develop the same and retain it for his use. (iii) During the lifetime of the complainant's husband in or around

 2010, one person approached her late husband stating that he is going

 to construct a Church in the property, adjacent to her vacant land. The

 complainant's husband was suffering from cancer. The said person

 informed the complainant's husband that he needed some letters to be

 signed by the complainant that he has no objection for constructing a

 Church, neither the complainant nor her late husband had any reason to

 suspect. In the guise of obtaining no objection for construction of the

 church, the said persons informed the complainant and her husband that

 the signatures had to be made in the presence of the Government

 officials for ascertaining complainant's identity and give him permission

 to construct the Church. Believing him and his representations, the 3/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 complainant signed and affixed thumb impressions and also provided her

 identification documents. Subsequently, the complainant's husband

 passed away due to Cancer. (iv) While that being is so, the complainant had received a Notice,

 dated 21-01-2014, from the Income Tax Department calling her for

 enquiry. The complainant attended the enquiry on 30-01-2014 and was

 questioned why she had not disclosed the sale of 78 Cents belonging to

 her and why she had not paid the Tax on the same. She was shown a

 Sale Deed document by the Enquiry Officer, as if she sold the property to

 the petitioners herein. The Sale Deed showed as if the property was sold

 by her for a whopping Rs.2,04,04,800/-. She noted the Sale Deed

 Document Number: 4147 of 2010, and applied for a Certified Copy and

 then she learnt that the Sale Deed showed, as if she executed Power of

 Attorney, dated 25-01-2010, in favour of the Thirunavukarasu,

 A.B.Gnanasekar, P.S.Rathinam and R.Sivamuthukumaran, who arrayed

 as A1 to A4 in this case. A1 to A4, as power of attorney of the

 complainant, executed the Sale Deed, dated 02-08-2010, registered as

 Document No: 4147 of 2010, in favour of the petitioners herein and that

 she was not paid any consideration. 4/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 (v) From the photos in the power of attorney, she was able to find

 out the person, who came to her house asking 'No Objection Certificate'

 was the Second Accused Gnanasekar. Thereafter, she lodged a

 Complaint, dated 25-07-2014, before the Commissioner of Police,

 Chennai, against all the accused persons stating that the all the accused

 colluded and conspired and in the guise of obtaining a no objection,

 made her execute a power of attorney, thereafter, the accused illegally

 executed a sale deed, and that she was not paid any consideration. After

 receiving the Complaint, it was forwarded to the Sub-Inspector of Police,

 Land Grabbing Cell, on enquiring the complainant and taking her

 statement, the Sub-Inspector of Police forwarded the complainant to the

 Central Crime Branch. The Inspector of Police, Central Crime Branch

 once again recorded the complainant's statement, conducted enquiry,

 closed the complaint stating that "Criminal Offense is not made out" and

 also directed the complainant to file a Suit for the appropriate relief.

 After conducting enquiry, the Inspector of Police, Central Crime Branch,

 filed closure report on 26-09-2014. The complainant's husband signed

 as a witness in the Power of Attorney and that the name of her father

 was shown as that of her husband's father and that was not investigated

 properly by the Police. Thereafter, she had filed the private complaint

 against the petitioners and four other persons before the Learned

 Judicial Magistrate at Tambaram, on 13-11-2014, for offences U/s. 120- 5/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 B, 405, 417 and 468 IPC , which was taken cognizance in C.C.No.1057

 of 2014, issued summons to the petitioners for appearance. 3. Mr.R.Ganesh Kumar, the learned counsel for the petitioners

 submits that the petitioners are running a Church named “New Life

 Assemblies of God” in Chennai. They were on the lookout for larger

 tracts of land for construction of buildings for their religious activities.

 They were in the process of acquiring lands from several land owners

 from the year 2002. They identified larger chunks of land through real

 estate agents in Block Nos.26 and 29 of Ward 'C' Zamin Pallavaram

 Village and so far they have purchased about 30 Acres of land from the

 year 2002-2003 to till date. During the year 2008, one Jayaraj, who is a

 real estate agent, who negotiated several other transactions, offered to

 identify the owner of Survey No: 97/1 in Block No. 29 Ward 'C' in Zamin

 Pallavaram Village, which lying between the other lands already

 purchased, agreed to negotiate for the purchase of the property, he

 introduced A1 to A4 to the petitioners society saying that they were in

 agreement with the owners of the land and that they given power of

 attorney to deal with the property. The petitioners agreed to purchase

 the property for the reason that it was lying between the lands already

 purchased by the petitioners Society. At the time of purchase the

 original partition deed and copies of documents were not furnished to 6/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 them. However placing reliance and believing the Patta shown to them

 granted in favour of the complainant and the Encumbrance Certificate

 submitted by A1 to A4, the petitioners purchased the property. As

 instructed by the power holders, the consideration in respect of

 purchase of the property was made through eight pay orders, bearing

 numbers 936815 to 936822, all dated 20.01.2010, drawn on South India

 Bank, T.Nagar Branch, favour the power holders for Rs.1,73,76,000/-

 from the account of the “New Life Assembly of God Church”. After

 purchase, the petitioners took possession of the property. Subsequently,

 the petitioners received a Notice from the Income Tax Department

 relating to the transaction under Section 133(6) of the Income-Tax Act.

 The 1st petitioner appeared and produced all documents relating to the

 payments made towards consideration and also produced the relevant

 statement of the Bank to show that the consideration of Rs.2,04,04,800/-

 paid to the power agents of the complainant. Thereafter, the petitioners

 summoned by the CCB Police for enquiry, after enquiry, the complaint

 was closed as mistake-of-fact. 4. It is further submitted that during the enquiry, it was revealed

 that the motive of the complainant was to pretend before the Income Tax

 Authorities, as if she had not received any amounts from her Power

 Agents and thereby, to escape from payment of statutory taxes to the 7/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 Income Tax Department, she gave this false complaint. However having

 some suspicion, the petitioners applied for fresh Encumbrance

 Certificate and copies of documents on 04-03-2015, they came to know

 that the property in Survey No.97/1, Block No.29, Ward 'C' in Zamin

 Pallavaram Village, Tambaram Taluk, Kanchipuram District, which the

 complainant claims to be the owner does not even belong to her

 whereas, it belonged to one of her brothers P.S.Sigamani, pursuant to

 the family partition deed entered into between the complainant and her

 brothers on 27-09-1972, registered as Document No.1851 of 1972 and

 that she and her husband colluded with the other accused, cheated the

 complainant, as if the land belonged to her based on a patta stated to be

 issued in her favour and the Encumbrance Certificate obtained by them

 without any encumbrance. Adding further, the learned counsel

 submitted that when the petitioners applied for fresh Encumbrance

 Certificate, they were further shocked to find out that the property had

 already been sold to Prakash Bansali and Surendrakumar Bansali Jain by

 the brothers of the complainnt namely, PS.Sigamani, P.S.Gunalan and

 P.S.Sivaraman as early as 15-12-1994, by Document Number 5907/1994. 5. The Accused 1 to 4 and the complainant suppressing the earlier

 details and transactions misrepresented the facts, based on Patta

 obtained by her by fraud and concealment made the petitioners society 8/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 to believe them and part with Rs.2,04,04,800/- thereby, she cheated the

 petitioners. The complainant in order to escape from her Criminal Act and in order to escape from the proceedings taken by the Income Tax

 Department is now feigning ignorance and attempting to show as if she

 is innocent and she is not aware of what happened at the Sub Registrar's

 Office and that she has not received any consideration. As per the

 registered power of attorney, the complainant and her husband appeared

 in person before the Sub Registrar Office, executed the Power of

 Attorney in favour of A1 to A4, her husband stood as a witness to the

 execution of the Power of Attorney document. The petitioners genuinely

 believed the Power of Attorney and parted with the consideration

 amount to A1 to A4 through Pay Orders drawn in their names. It is

 pertinent to submit that A1 to A4 were introduced by one Jeyaraj, a real

 estate broker, who earlier dealt with and acquired certain lands of the

 petitioners' society. The learned counsel further submitted that learned

 Judicial Magistrate at Tambaram, even without verifying the documents

 and based on the statement taken cognizance issued summons to the

 petitioners. The complainant is the person, who along with the other

 accused cheated the petitioners and she has not come to the court with

 clean hands. In support of his contentions, the learned counsel relied

 upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Amar

 Nath vs. Gian Chand and Another reported in (2022 SCC Online SC 9/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 102), wherein, the principles regarding Section 34 of the Registration

 Act has been clearly recorded. Further, the learned counsel relied on

 the Judgment of the Apex Court in Mohammed Ibrahim and Others

 Vs. State of Bihar and Another reported in (2009 (8) SCC 751),

 wherein it has been held as follows:- “This Court has time and again drawn
 attention to the growing tendency of complainants
 attempting to give the cloak of a criminal offence
 to matters which are essentially and purely civil in
 nature, obviously either to apply pressure on the
 accused, or out of enmity towards the accused, or
 to subject the accused to harassment. Criminal
 courts should ensure that proceedings before it are
 not used for settling scores or to pressurise parties
 to settle civil disputes. But at the same, it should be
 noted that several disputes of a civil nature may
 also contain the ingredients of criminal offences
 and if so, will have to be tried as criminal offences,
 even if they also amount to civil disputes.”

 Thus, the learned counsel submitted that the petitioners arrayed as

 accused only to cause harassment and for oblique reasons. Hence, seeks

 quashing of the proceedings. 6. Mr.P.V.Balasubramanian, the learned counsel appearing for the 10/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 respondent/complainant would submit that on the face of it, the

 documents would show that the power of attorney is forged one. The

 respondent's father had some property in Zamin Pallavaram, who settled

 the property in the name of respondent and her brother in the year

 1972. At that time, the respondent was aged about 18 years. She has not

 got much educational qualification. Taking advantage of the same, the

 petitioners played a fraud along with other accused viz., A-1 to A-4.

 Using the power of attorney, a sale deed executed eight months

 thereafter. The documents produced by the petitioners that a sum of

 Rs.10 lakhs had been paid in advance to one Jeyaraja pertains to this

 property during May, 2008, which is months before the power of

 attorney executed in favour of A-1 to A-4. 7. It is further submitted that the bank statement produced by the

 petitioners would show that the demand drafts taken much before the

 power of attorney was executed. The admitted case of the petitioners is

 that they scouting for various places through Jeyaraja. For the payments

 made to Jeyaraja to some other property, has been projected as though

 the money paid to the respondent. The plaint filed in the civil suit is for

 the purpose of seeking civil remedy and that may not be projected

 against the respondent as though she is agreeing to the power of

 attorney executed. The specific case of the respondent is that power of 11/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 attorney has been obtained through fraud. Respondent's father name is

 Srinivasa Pandithar, her husband name is Dhandapani, who shown as

 witness to the power of attorney. In the power of attorney, Dhandapani's

 father name has been shown as Srinivasa Pandithar as well as to the

 another witness to the document. Further the same PAN Number given

 to three of the witnesses in the document. Thus, on the face of it, it is

 seen that fraud has been committed by petitioners/A5 and A6. The

 petitioners, right from inception, through A1 to A4, conspired and

 cheated the respondent/complainant using forged documents. The

 petitioners claim of having the original document may not be true for the

 reason that family property partition had taken place, in between the

 respondent and his father in the year 1972, wherein several of the

 properties partitioned and it might have been used in some other

 transaction. Hence, the learned counsel, by relying on the following

 Judgments of the Apex Court, prayed for dismissal of the petition. The

 Judgments of the Apex Court in Veera Singh Vs. District Registrar /

 Additional Collector and Anr reported in (2002) 7 SCC 1; R.Kalyani

 Vs. Janak C.Mehta & Ors reported in ( 2009 (1) SCC 516) and

 Sudhir Shantilal Mehta Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation reported in (2009 (8) SCC 1) 8. I have heard the learned counsels appearing on either side and

 perused the materials available on record. 12/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 9. According to the respondents, the respondent signed certain

 documents for the purpose of giving no objection for construction of the

 Church in the adjacent property, which was the representation made by

 A1 to A4 and one Jeyaraja. In the year, 2014, the respondent received a

 Notice from the Income Tax Department, thereafter, she came to know

 about the sale deed executed using the power of attorney for a sum of

 Rs.2,04,04,800. Thereafter, she lodged a police complaint, which was not

 acted upon and finally filed the private complaint, which is not

 sustainable both on facts and law for the reason, till date, the

 respondent admits that A1 to A4 acted as power of attorney. She has also

 filed a civil suit in O.S.No.186 of 2017, which is pending before the

 District Judge, Chengalpet, wherein, the relationship between the

 respondent and A1 to A4 as power of attorney not disputed. If at all the

 respondent has got any grievance, it is for her to proceed against A1 to

 A4 and not against the petitioners/A5 and A6. As per Section 34 of the

 Registration Act, duty is cast upon the Registrar to question, enquire

 about the veracity of the transaction and thereafter register the

 documents. In this case, the documents have been executed before the

 Registrar and all are registered documents. 10. It is seen from the records that A1 to A4 acted as Power of 13/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 Attorneys to the respondent/complainant and executed a General Power

 of Attorney on 25.01.2010. Thereafter, the property of the respondent to

 an extent of 78 cents comprised in Survey No.97/1 in Zamin Pallavaram

 was sold and sale deed was executed on 02.08.2010 in favour of A5 and

 A6. The Power of Attorney was registered as Document No.68 of 2010

 and sale deed as Document No.4147 of 2010. For the above transaction,

 A6 paid the amount to the power of attorneys of the respondent, by way

 of demand draft and cheques. Thereafter, sale deed executed. Even

 accepting the allegations to be true, the ingredients of intentional

 deception on the part of the accused right at the beginning of the

 transaction neither been expressly stated nor indirectly suggested in the

 complaint. Therefore, the core postulate of dishonest intention in order

 to deceive the complainant / respondent is not made out even accepting

 all the averments in the complaint on their face value. 11. The undisputed facts in this case is that Power of Attorney

 Document No.68 of 2010 executed by the respondent in favour of

 R.Thirunavukarasu, A.B.Gnanasekar, P.S.Rathinam and

 R.Sivamuthukumaran, on 25.01.2010 not disputed. Complainant's

 husband witnessed and signed the document. The power executed

 authorizing complainant's agent, to sell the property, to enter into

 agreement for sale with 'South India Assemblies of God' Church, to give 14/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 formal possession and to hand over vacant possession and complainant

 agreed to ratify all lawful acts done by her attorneys. The only condition

 is that to keep true and correct accounts and produce the accounts to

 the principal. The grievance of the complainant is that neither she

 authorized sale nor paid any sale consideration, hence disputing the

 sale. For this reason, she had lodged a police complaint. Central Crime

 Branch, Chennai, enquired and closed the complaint, as civil in nature,

 hence, she filed the above complaint. Added to it, she has filed a civil

 Suit in O.S.No.186 of 2017, before the District Court, Chengalpet, to

 declare power of Attorney Document No.68 of 2010, dated 25.01.2010,

 as null and void, consequently, cancel the sale deed Doc.No.4147 of

 2010, dated 02.08.2010, alternatively the complainant seeks rendition

 of accounts for the sale deed and its proceeds, sum of Rs.2,04,04,800/-,

 along with interest. Both in the complaint and civil suit, the only

 allegation against the petitioners / A5 & A6 is that they colluded with A1

 to A4, for which, there is no required averments or any materials even

 to remotely suggest about any collusion. On the other hand, payments

 have been made to A1 to A4 through Bank, which is not seriously

 objected, except for stating that payments have been made even before

 execution of Power of Attorney, it might not gain credence, in the

 absence of any contra stand disputing receipt of money by A1 to A4.

 Whether complainant was paid or not by A1 to A4 it is a different matter, 15/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 which A1 to A4 to answer. Further, complainant's contention that she

 had little or no knowledge of English will not hold water. The

 complainant's partition deed Document No.1851 of 1972, is in English.

 After partition it has been acted upon. Now, the complainant cannot

 make a turn around. The Power of Attorney Doc No.68/2010 is not

 disputed, except for a different interpretation by the complainant. The

 Power of Attorney not cancelled. In view of the above this court finds no

 collusion by petitioners / A5 & A6 with the other accused. The

 complainant has now initiated civil proceedings against the petitioners

 and others, in O.S.No.186 of 2017, which can take care, safe guard,

 complainant's rights and interest. The petitioners purchased the

 property, when there was nothing to doubt the registered power of

 attorney. 12. In the case on hand, the purchasers are made as co-accused. It

 is not the case of the complainant that petitioners tried to deceive her

 either by making a false or misleading representation or by any other

 action or omission, nor is it her case that they offered her any fraudulent

 or dishonest inducement or to intentionally induce her to do or omit to

 do anything. No doubt, the opinion of the court would certainly depend

 on the factual matrix of each case. The instant dispute certainly involves

 civil nature. In such a situation continuing the criminal proceeding 16/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 against the petitioners will be, an abuse of process of the court. At this

 juncture, it is relevant to refer the Judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court

 in the Judgment in G. Sagar Suri and another vs. State of U.P. and

 others , reported in ((2000) 2 SCC 636), wherein it has been held as

 follows:- 13. In the result, this Criminal Original Petition is allowed and the

 proceedings in C.C.No.1057 of 2014, pending on the file of the learned

 Judicial Magistrate at Tambaram. sofar as it relates to the petitioners /

 Accused 5 & 6 alone herein, stands quashed. Consequently, the

 connected miscellaneous petition is closed. 17/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.O.P.No.9770 of 2015 14. Needless to state that the observations made in this petition is

 only for deciding the present case on hand, and it is left open to the trial

 Court to decide the issue in respect of other accused, at the appropriate

 stage, in accordance with law, without being influenced by the

 observations made herein.