1. This is an appeal filed by the assessee directed against the order dated 10.01.2005 of the Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) for the assessment year 2003-04 on the following effective grounds: 2. Brief facts of the case are given below. The assessee is a central government undertaking engaged in the activity of transmission and power distribution of electricity to various constituents across the country. During the year under consideration, the assessee was involved in three projects for which contracts were awarded to different contractors. The assessee awarded contracts to various parties to construct/execute the transmission line/sub-station. The categories of contracts entered into by the appellant with various contractors for the above purpose are as follows: AWARD AND SCOPE: CONTRACT PRICE: 3.1 We agree to pay you Rs.48.99,150/- (Rupees Forty eight lakhs ninety nine thousand one hundred and fitly only) for the entire scope of work under this Award teller on 'Firm Price' basic
 

3.2 The detailed break-up of the above contract price lot the purpose of on account payment is given at Annexure-I enclosed to this Award letter. 3.3 Not withstanding the break-up of the contract price the contract shall, at all limes, be construed as a single source responsibility contract and any breach in any pail of the contract shall be treated as a breach of the entire contract. 4.0 TAXES AND DUTIES
 

4.1 The Contact price is exclusive of service tax payable extra on transportation and erection tasting 8. commissioning services @ 10.2% as a applicable as the contract price. Alt oilier taxes, duties and levies are. included in the Contract price and POWERGRID shall not entertain any claim on account of the same. 4.2 Statutory deductions such as WCI. income tax etc. shall be attected at source in accordance with the provisions of various lax laws as applicable from time to time. Necessary TDS Certificate shall be issued by POWERGRID. 3. " CONTRACT FOR ERECTION" EXECUTED BY A SUPPLY CUM ERECTION CONTRACTOR" 2.2 Your scope of work under this Contract shall also include all such items which are not specifically mentioned in the Bidding Documents, and/or you Bid but are necessary for the successful erection, testing and commissioning of transmission line for 400K V D/C Sitanagaram-Gazuwaka transmission Line, as detailed in lire Bidding Documtns unless otherwise specifically excluded in the Bidding Documents or in this LOA. 2.3 this letter of Award is subject to the terms and 'conditions detailed hereunder: 3. CONTRACT PRICE: 4.1 the Contract Price is inclusive of all faxes & Duties and other levies and POWERGIRD shall not entertain any claim on account of the same. 4.2 POWERGIRD shall be entitled to statutory deductions including income tax at source in accordance with the provisions of various tax laws as applicable from time to time. Necessary IDS certificate shall be issued by POWERGIRD. 4. "CONTRACT FOR SUPPLIES" MADE BY AN ERECTION CUM SUPPLY CONTRACTOR: the list of materials in be supplied by you is given at Annexure-II enclosed. 2.2 the scope of work under this letter of Award (LOA) shall also include all such items which ate not specifically mentioned in the bidding documents and/or your bid but are necessary for the successful erection, testing and commissioning of tine covered under Letter of A word No. --dt. -- for "Erection Portion" unless otherwise specifically excluded in/he bidding documents or this Letter of Award. 2.3 This teller of Award is subject to the terms and conditions detailed hereunder: 3.0 CONTRACT PRICE: 4.1 Taxes and duties under this Contract shall be governed by the provision of Clause 15, Section - INB of Bidding Document (Vol-I) and as per the following: In respect of erection contracts, the assessee had deducted taxes at source duly applying the provisions of Section 194C of the Income Tax Act, 1961. In so far as the supply contracts are concerned, the assessee did not make any deduction, on the ground that provisions of Section 194C are not attracted to the said payments. Excise Duty and Sales Tax were paid on the invoices raised by the contractors in respect of supply contracts. There was a survey in the premises of the assessee on 28.01.2004. In the course of survey, the Assessing Officer observed that the Appellant entered into contracts with various organizations for supply and erection of equipment but has not deducted taxes. The Assessing Officer issued a show cause notice dated 06.02.2005, which was replied to by the Appellant. The case of the Assessing Officer was that the supply of transmission towers/cables involved design and manufacture of the goods, and hence it was a contract of works and not a contract of sale. The Assessing Officer not convinced with the reply filed by the Appellant passed an order under Section 201(1) read with Section 201(1A) of the Act holding the assessee as "assessee in default" for not having deducted faxes in respect of the various contracts entered info by if, which according to him, were contracts in the nature of works contracts. While passing the said order, the Assessing Officer held that the Appellant with a view to avoid payment of faxes had split the contracts namely supply and erection. According to the Assessing Officer since the supply included design, engineering, manufacture, type testing, training of Appellant's personnel and supplying, and also since the contract price was inclusive of all customs duties, levies, excise duties, sales tax and other duty payable on equipments, components, sub-assembles and raw-materials, the contract was hot a supply contract but a works contract. Assessing Officer also held that since the finished products is not a commercial commodity and was made to the specific need of the assessee, the contract in whole is a works contract. The Assessing Officer accordingly raised a demand under Section 201(1) of the Act. 2.1 Aggrieved, the assessee filed appeal before the Commissioner of income-fax (Appeals), Hyderabad. The assessee had raised similar contentions that were raised before the Assessing Officer and had also relied upon decisions rendered by this Hon'ble Tribunal and various courts including the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The learned Commissioner (Appeals) has stated at para 2.3 that he does not agree with the contention of the Appellant. According to him, the transmission equipment/towers were manufactured by the supplier in one sample case i.e. in the case of M/s. Tata projects, as per the requirements and specification given. The Appellant was
 

not purchasing transmission equipment/towers in open market but bids/offers were invited from the contractors and after examination of the same, a letter of award was issued. This clearly showed that the transaction was not a direct purchase from the market but only in respect of future execution of a specified contract. The letter of award contained conditions of contract, technical specification, bid form, prices and other schedules and technical data requirement. The learned Commissioner (Appeals) has further stated at para 2.4 that the relevant clauses of the agreement stated as under: The learned Commissioner (Appeals) has held at para-6.10 of the -- order that: 3. The learned Counsel for the assessee in addition to his oral submission, has fled detailed written submissions submitting THAI: the order off the Commissioner (Appeals) is unsustainable on facts and in law and is liable to be set aside. The Commissioner (Appeals) while holding that the contracts entered into by the Appellant are works contract, lost sight of the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 , valid lesls and guidelines laid down by various benches of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, the Jurisdictional High Court/other High courts as well as the Hon'bte Supreme Court. The Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court In the case of P.S. and Co. v. State of Andhra Pradesh laid down the guidelines at paragraph 21 of the judgment for distinguishing a Contract of Sale from a Works Contract, which is reproduced: The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of A.P. v. Kone Elevators (India) Ltd. considering the case of installation of lifts held that the contract is a "contract for sale". The Hon'ble Apex Court while enumerating the tests to be considered while deciding the nature of contract emphasized the fact that the intention of the parties in the contract would to a large extent determine the issue. The Hon'ble Court laid down the following as the probable tests that should be conducted before determining the nature of contract: The Hon'ble Apex Court while saying so has followed the principles laid down by it in the case of Hindustan Shipyard (1999) 115 STC 96 and clarified that it is not the bulk of the material used in the construction alone but the relative importance of the material qua the work, skill and labour of the payee which also has to be seen, but it is a relevant parameter. In the present case, where the ' contract of Supply & Erection is given to the same party, the value of the Erection Contract as can be seen from the annexure is minimal. If cannot therefore control the interpretation of the contract. Further the Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the issue of "installation of lift" which is comparable to the facts of the present case, on facts came to the conclusion that it is one in the nature of sale. The Hon'ble Court observed that since the obligation of the assessee therein was only to supply and install the lift manufactured and brought to site in knocked-down state to be assembled by assessee and the customer's obligation was to undertake work connected in keeping site ready for installation as per drawings, held that the contract was a 'sale contract" and not a "works contract". The Hon'ble Court also noticed that the major component of the end product is material consumed in producing the lift delivered. The skill and labour employed for converting main components info the end product were only incidental. The learned Commissioner (Appeals) failed to consider any of the above tests while coming to the erroneous conclusion that the contracts entered into by the Appellant were works contract. If the facts of the present case are tested by applying the principles laid down by the jurisdictional High Court and the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the obvious answer that would emerge is that the contract is a "supply contract" and not "works contract". The nature of a contract as to whether it is "contract for sale" or "works contract" will depend on the terms of the contract and its execution. In the present case, the contractors have to fabricate towers as per tested qualify of conformity with (International Standard) IS: 2062. Further the contractor has given option to use other equivalent grade of structural steel angle sections and plates conforming to latest International Standards. The contractor fabricates the tower with steel sections as per International Standards. The rest of the equipment such as Insulators, conductors, Transformers, Circuit Breakers, etc., are standard equipment. The relevant technical specification is enclosed herewith. From this it can be seen that the same is common to the industry and no specific design is involved as stated by the Assessing Officer. Apart from the Appellant there are other customers for these products as well. The property in the goods was intended to be passed-on, on ex-works basis and the element of work employed by way of services is negligible. Just because it was tailor made equipment, it does not become a "works contract". 3.1 Reliance was placed on the decision of the Hyderabad Bench of the Tribunal in he case of APSRTC v. DCIT (2002) 74 TTJ 531 (Hyd) wherein this bench of the Hon'ble Tribunal while dealing with the case of fabricators for construction of bus bodies, which ideally would be an apt for determining the present controversy held, following the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Gujarat v. Variety Body Builders reported in (1976) 38 STC 176 (SC) that it is necessary to discern the dominant object and intention of the parties for determining the nature of contract. Merely because certain specifications were given to the seller, the nature of the contract would not be altered. He submitted that the issue in the present case is squarely covered by the aforesaid Tribunal's order. The learned Counsel further submitted that just because the "Supply Contract" and "Erection Contract" were entered into with the same party in some cases, the nature of contract will not alter. He drew the attention of the Bench to the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court wherein the said Court while dealing a similar issue in the case of Commissioner of Sales Tax v. Walchandnagar Industries reported in (1985) 58 STC 89, at page 94 (pg. 58 in judgments paper book) referred to a judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley and Co. where in it was held that " the parties may enter into two 'contracts, one for sale and one for service. Even when such contracts are in one document they can be separate, far more so when they are in two separate documents. 3.2 He then has drawn the attention of this Bench to the decision of this Tribunal in the case of APGENCO v. ACIT-which while dealing with the issue of turnkey contract, where erection part was incidental to the supply contract {at page 21, 22 & at 30 of the order in ITA Nos. 1057-1060/H/2002) Hyderabad "B" Bench by following the decision of the Jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT v. Sundwiger EMFG and Co. 262 ITR 110 (AP), held that the contracts were contracts for sale. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mahavir Commercials Co. Ltd. 86 ITR 417 has held that mere fact that in the case of contract of sale, the seller does certain acts even after the sale or retains certain amount of control over the assets sold even after sale, does not mean that the sale has not taken place earlier. It is respectfully submitted that the Board Circular No. 681 dt. 08.03.1994 while dealing with contracts which are attracted by Section 194C of the Act pursuant to the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Associated Cements Co. Ltd. v. CIT 201 ITR 435 has clarified that the provisions of the said section will not cover contracts for sale of goods like in the present case. The circulars issued by the Board are binding on the Department. As to the question when and at what time the title to the goods pass, it was submitted that the contract between the parties is sacrosanct. Also Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Motor General Stores (Pvt.) Ltd held that unless it is established that a contract is a sham, or is contrary to law, the contract should be respected. 3.3. He sought to distinguish the decisions relied upon by the Commissioner. (Appeals) while holding that the contracts entered into by the Appellant is "works contract" to submit that they are not applicable to the facts of the present case. The Revenue cannot take the support of the Hoard Circular No. 715 doled 08.08.1995 for the facts of the present case because the said circular was issued clarifying the legal position with respect to contracts like advertisement, print media, contract for carriage of goods or passengers, travel agency, courier service transport, catering, recruitment agency etc. The said circular is totally irrelevant so far as the facts of the present case is concerned. 3.4 He then referred to the decision of the Pune Bench of the Tribunal & the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of BDA Ltd 84 HR 442 and Anandam Viswanatham (1989) 73 SIC 1 (SC) which are relied upon by the Assessing Officer and the Commissioner (Appeals) and submitted that they cannot be applied to the present case because the Pune Bench of the Tribunal and the Hon'ble Apex Court in the said cases were dealing with the issue pertaining to printing and supply of multi-colored receipt books and the printing and supply of question papers to the university. I he said products' are not comparable to the supply of equipment like towers and conductors. It was submitted that the supply contracts entered info by the Appellant involve manufacturing activity and are not works/service-oriented contracts, the contention of the Revenue that the finished product supplied to the assessee is not a commercial commodity in the sense that it cannot be sold in the market to any other person and therefore the transaction is works contract is totally wrong and misplaced statement. As per assessee statement is a general statement, which is not borne out from the record. It is submitted that the specification mentioned by the assessee are common to Power Transmission sector on the following reasons: To understand (tie true nature and perspective of the contract, he referred to some of the clauses in the letter of award issued by the assessee to the contractors. A perusal of one such letter of award for supply cum erection contracts showed that the contract for 'supply portion' (first contract) also contains references to 'erection portion' (second contract) which is as under: You shall be fully responsible for the work to be executed under the ' Second Contract' and it is expressly understood by you that any breach under the 'Second Contract' shall automatically be deemed as a breach of this contract and any such breach or occurrence giving us a right to terminate the 'Second Contract' and/or recover damages under that Contract shall give us a right to terminate this contract and/or recover damages under this contract as well. However, such breach or occurrence in the 'Second Contract' shall not automatically relieve you of any of your obligations under this Contract. It is expressly understood and agreed by you that the equipment/materials supplied by you under this contract when erected, strung and the transmission line is commissioned under the 'Second Contract' shall give satisfactory performance in accordance with the Bidding Documents. Para 2.4(iii) of the supply contract reads as follows: 4.1. The learned D.R. submitted that the clauses in the letter of award clearly indicate that even in a contract for supply of equipment, it may be noticed that the equipments* which are engineering goods are required to be manufactured strictly as per the specifications of the assessee and utilized for a specific requirement of the assessee. The equipments supplied were not standard goods and were not capable of any use to anyone else and thus had no commercial value. Further it is provided in the contract that the assessee has sufficient control over the equipments manufactured at every stage of the manufacturing process till they are finally delivered. If it is sale of goods per se, there is no question of buyer having control over the manufacture of goods at every stage of the manufacturing process of the seller. If the contract is for supply of off the shelf goods or bought out goods/the finished product along with its operational manual is only given. That is not the case here as the scope of the contract includes design, engineering, manufacture, type testing, and training of power grid personnel and supply of, goods. Further, as per the conditions of the supply of contract, the contract price is inclusive of all customs duties, levies, excise duty, sales-tax and other dutie5 payable on equipments, components, sub-assemblies and raw materials or any other items used and if is clearly mentioned that no separate claim on these duties will be entertained by Power Grid. Merely because Sales Tax, Excise Duty etc. were charged on supply of the material in the invoice, it does not lead to the conclusion that it was purely purchase of goods because the said levy under the Sales-tax Act etc. has its own identity and nothing to do with income tax. Even otherwise, he submitted, the contracts involving work are brought within the purview of Sales-tax Enactments and hence the inclusion of sales tax and other levies in the invoice does not necessarily lead to the conclusion that the transaction/in question are that of sale. It is rather a composite package, which does consist of some material also. But the entire package is inseparable and is accordingly to be considered as 'Rendering of one single service.' He thus argued that in the present case the agreements were not for sale of goods per se. It is an executory contract rather than a case of mere supply or sale of goods. According to the learned D.R., the agreements entered into between the assessee and the contractors were basically for carrying out work as per the specifications of the assessee. From various covenants of the contract and by reading the contracts as a whole, it is clear that the contract entered into by the assessee corporation with its contractors is not merely a supply contract but that of a works contract and any payments made under the contract are covered by provisions of Section 19AC. 4.2 Reliance was placed on the following decisions: 5.1 We find substantial force in the arguments of the learned Counsel for the assessee which are supper led by the case laws cited and we are inclined to agree with these contention of the assessee, that the contracts in question are pure contracts of sale and not works contract for the reasons given below. 5.2 In this case, as already staled, the assessee entered into contracts with various contactors for supply of conductor, insulators, transmission towers and substations. The contracts were not only to supply equipment, but also by way of separate contract to erect the transmission towers and also the substations. the contract, though contained in the same document in some cases are in two parts. Simply because the supply and erection parts of the contract were entered into with the same party in some cases, and in some other cases were in two separate parks in the same agreement the nature of the each part of the contract will not alter. In this connection we may refer to the decision of (lie Bombay High Court in the case of Commissioner of Sales-tax v. Walchandnagar Industries (1985) 58 STC 89 in which the Hon'ble High Court referred to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley and Co. wherein it was held that " the parlies may enter into two contracts, one for the sale of goods and one for services. Even when such contracts are in one document they can be separate, for more so when they are in two separate documents.'' Similar view was taken by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Associated Hotels of India Ltd [1972] 29 STC 474. 5.3 In A.P.S.R.I.C. v. DCII (2002) 74 HJ (Hyd) 531. Hyderabad Bench of the Tribunal held as follows: The Hon'ble Apex Court while saying so has followed the principles laid down by it in the case of Hindustan Shipyard (1999) 115 STC 96 and clarified that it is not the bulk of the material used in the construction alone but the relative importance pf the material qua the work, skill and labour of the payee which also has to be seen, but it is a relevant parameter. In the present case, where the contract of Supply & Erection is given to the same party, the value of the Erection Contract as can be seen from the annexure is lesser than the value of the supply contract. II cannot therefore control the interpretation of the contract, specifically when the property in the goods have passed ex-works on delivery and not on the theory of accession. The assessee took possession of the goods and the title passed on to it as a chattel prior to commencement of the 0 erection portion of the contract. 5.5 Further the Hon'ble Supreme Court while considering the issue of "installation of lift" on fads came to the conclusion that it is one in the nature of sale, the Hon'ble Court observed that since the obligation of the assessee therein was only to supply and install the lift manufactured and brought to site in knocked-down state to be assembled by assessee and the customer's obligation was to undertake work connected in keeping site ready for installation as per drawings, held that the contract was a 'sale contract" and not a "works contract". The Hon'ble Court also noticed that the major component of the end product is material consumed in producing the lift delivered. The skill and labour employed for converting main components into the end product were only incidental. The learned Commissioner (Appeals) failed to consider any of the above tests while coming to the erroneous conclusion that the contracts entered into by the Appellant were works contract. If the facts of the present case are tested by applying the principles laid down by the jurisdictional High Court and the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the obvious answer that would emerge is that this is a "supply contract" and not "works contract". The nature of a contract as to whether if is "contract for sale" or "works contract" will depend on the terms of the contract and its execution. In the present case, the contractors have to fabricate towers as per tested quality of conformity with (International Standard) IS: 2062. Further the contractor has been given the option to use other equivalent grade of structural sleet angle sections and plates conforming to latest International Standards. The contractor fabricates and manufactures the lower with steel sections as per International Standards. The material is that of "the supplier" and not of "the purchaser". The "supplier" does not work on the material supplied by the "purchaser'. There is no accretion of material to the purchaser, part by part, unit by unit. The rest of the equipment suet) as Insulators, conductors, Transformers, Circuit Breakers, etc., are standard equipment. The relevant technical specification is specified by the "purchaser". the title in the goods passes as a chattel on delivery though certain obligations are still necessarily to be performed by the "supplier". Though the assessee claims that the design, specification are not Unique, in the sense that, the same specifications are used by many other concerns, lo our mind, this is not a relevant test. The issue is as to the time and situs of passing of the property and as to whether the property passes "BRICK by BRICK" on the theory of * accretion or as a chaffle qua 'chattel'. The mere fact that the supplier has to perform many oilier obligations cast on if by virtue of the contract, after delivery of goods, does not change the nature of transaction. The "supply" portion of the contract are the predominant object and intention of the parties. Election is relatively minor portion as compared to the supply portion. If the erection portion cannot be taken as the main object of these contracts. Title in goods was transferred as movables prior to erection. If equipment are manufactured as per the design, engineering, etc., specified by the customer, it would not result in a works contract especially when all the material belong} to the supplier, even though it produced a tailor made product. The erection portion being subsequent to passing of title by execution of the supply portion, it cannot be said that the erection portion controls the supply portion, though the fulfillment of the conditions of the erection contract has a bearing on the fulfillment of the condition of supply portion of the contract, and though, in some cases both the contracts are in the same document. The scope and object of each part of the contract is different. Though the supply portion and erection portion dovetail into each other, the erection portion does not control the supply portion and the supply contract does not become a works contract, just because there is an obligation cast on the supplier to erect the equipment which by that time has become the property of the purchaser. The title in the toads in respect of equipment/material to be supplied as per the terms of contract is to be transferred "Ex-work" on dispatch as Hon'ble property. The critical test to be applied is as to when the title in the goods is transferred. Thus as the late in the goods were passed on to the assessee, before the commencement of the works or erection contract, and as admitted by the assessee had treated these goods as its property and entered the same as such in its stock register before issuing the same for erection, if is a contract of sale and Section 194C has no application. On erection portion as admitted TDS is made. The order in the case of Essar Oil Ltd (supra) does not apply lo the facts of this case as the original contract was a single contract and later on this was split into 3 contracts. The order in the case of BDA Ltd (supra) relates to a printing press and similar issue was considered by the Hyderabad Bench in the case of APSRTC (supra). Thus these cases are not applicable to the facts of this case. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case; of Associated. Hotels of India Ltd [1972] 29 STC 474, has laid down that "(sic) may in some cases be that even while entering into a contract of work or even service, parties might enter into separate agreements, one of work and service and the other of sale and purchase of material to be; used in the course of erecting the work or performing the service. In such cases, the transaction would not be one indivisible but should fall into two separate agreements, one of work or performance and the other of sale". Applying the proposition, we hold that the contract of sale, does not become a contract of work, as there are two separate agreement. 5.6 Section 194C with its explanation III reads as follows: The CBDT recognized this position and issued the following guidelines in regard to the applicability of the provisions of Section 194C vide Circular No. 681 dated 8.3.1994 wherein: (Emphasis supplied) c) The State of Himachal Pradesh v. Associated Hotels of India Ltd. , the Supreme Court observed that where the principal objective of work undertaken by the payee of the price is not the transfer of a chattel qua chattel, contract is of work and labour. The test is whether or not the work and labour bestowed end in anything that can properly become the subject of sale; neither the ownership of the materials nor the value of skill and labour as compared with the value of the materials is conclusive although such matters may be taken into consideration in determining, in the circumstances of a particular case, whether the contract is, in substance, one of work and labour or one for the sale of a chattel. A building contract or a contract under ' which a movable is fixed to another chattel or on the land, where the intention plainly is hot to sell the article but to improve the land or the chattel and the consideration is not for the transfer of the chattel but for the labour and work done and the material furnished, the contract will be-one of work and labour. In the case of doubt, whether a particular contract is a contract for work and labour or for sale, the matter should be decided in the light of the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in the above mentioned case. (Emphasis ours)
 

A plain reading of the section t94C along with the CBDT Circular referred above and applying the same to the facts of this case, where we find that the supplier does not work or process the material supplied by the purchaser, and that the 'seller' supplied goods the title in which passed on to the purchaser/assessee, as a chattel, on delivery ex-work dispatch and as the assessee has already deducted tax at source from the erection portion of the contract, treating it as a separate contract, we have to hold that Section 194 'C' is not applicable to the supply contract in question. 6. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. Pronounced accordingly