1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide the present suit under S. 134 & 135 of Trademarks Act, 1999, Sec. 55 of
 Copyright Act, 1957 for permanent injunction restraining
 infringement, passing off, delivery up and
 rendition of accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the
 defendant. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially,
 the present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before
 the concerned Court of Ld. Additional District Judge,
 PHC, New Delhi. During the course of trial, the case
 was received by this Court by way of transfer, on
 22-08-2022 in view of Order
 No.17016-17031/Judl./ NDD/ PHC/2022 dated 05-7-2022
 of the then Ld. Principal District & Sessions Judge, New
 Delhi District, PHC and consequent upon the directions of
 Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case titled as 'Vishal
 Pipes Limited v. Bhavya Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD
 No.1/2022 & CM APPLs No. 12-14/2022
 dated 03-6-2022. 3. It may also be noted that initially, the suit was filed against
 defendant, thereby arraying defendant as 'Ashok Kumar'
 on the basis of 'John Doe' principle as applicable in India.
 Subsequently, after execution of local commission, the
 plaintiff got substituted defendant namely Sh. Dinesh
 Sharma as defendant, in place of defendant /Ashok Kumar
 (John Doe). BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 4. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, is as
 under:- And while that patent has long since expired,
 the plaintiff company's commitment to innovation
 continues to evolve throug a relentless pioneering
 and innovative spirit that is unparalleled in the
 apparel industry. As of today, the plaintiff Company
 clearly leads in the segment that it deals in. Further,
 it is averred that the plaintiff Company, in the year
 1995, officially launched its products in the Indian
 market and opened its first retail store in the city
 of Bangalore, Kamataka, under its iconic said-
 trademarks/labels. The plaintiff has ever since
 built a strong retail and distribution network across

 India and the said trademark/label have
 become source identifiers for the plaintiff and its
 said goods and business. 4.4 The plaintiff company has also claimed that it
 operates in more than 110 countries worldwide and
 ventured into youth segment in India in 1994 by
 launching its products under the iconic brand name

 . Since then, the plaintiff company has built
 a strong retail and distribution network across India. 4.5 The plaintiff company has claimed itself to be owner
 / proprietor of various trademarks/ labels including

 trade marks/ labels /LEVI's and

 (House-mark), 'Two Horse Logo' , CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 4 of 31 -5- Batwing#1 , Batwing#2 and

 'Arcuate Stitching Design trade mark'
 etc. [hereinafter referred to as 'said trademarks/
 labels of the plaintiff'] The plaintiff company has
 also claimed that the said trademarks besides other
 trade marks of the plaintiff company, are registered
 under the provisions of Trade Mark Act, 1999 ,
 which are stated to be valid and subsisting till date
 and the details thereof have been mentioned in Para
 no.12 of the plaint. Further, the plaintiff company
 has also claimed that the artwork involved in said

 trademarks/ labels of the plaintiff viz. ,

 and are original artistic
 works and the plaintiff holds copyright therein and
 since the creation of the aforesaid trademarks/
 labels, the plaintiff has been continuously and
 commercially reproducing and using its said
 trademarks/ labels within the meaning of S. 14 of
 the Copyright Act, 1957. Further, the plaintiffs
 artistic work and copyright is further protected in
 India by virtue of Berne Convention to which India
 is one of the signatories. 4.6 It is further stated that with the advent of e- commerce, the internet and trade thereunder, the CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 5 of 31 -6- Plaintiffs said goods are advertised, promoted,
 displayed, solicited, sold and traded over the
 world, including India, through its domain
 names www.levi.in in which the Plaintiffs

 said trademarks/labels , ,

 and form an essential and material
 part. The Plaintiff said goods are also available
 for purchase on other third-party e-commerce
 websites, inter alia, www.myntra.com, \
 www.amazon.in, www.flipkart.com,
 www.shoppersstop.com, www.tatacliq.com and
 www.ajio.com. 4.7 It is further the case of the plaintiff that on account
 of its good quality and standards of manufacturing
 and untiring efforts in advertising and marketing, the
 products of the plaintiff have acquired unique
 distinction and enviable reputation and goodwill
 across the world including India. 4.8 Further, it is the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff
 spent approx. $400 millions on marketing its goods
 under the said trade marks/label in the year 2019
 alone, which forms 6.9% net revenues. Thus, it is
 claimed that the plaintiff spend huge amount of
 money in advertising and promotion of its products
 under the said trade marks/ logos in India and CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 6 of 31 -7- around the world, due to which the products of
 plaintiff under the said trade marks/ logos enjoy
 huge goodwill and reputation in business
 community and public in general in India and across
 the world. The plaintiff company has
 a huge turnover against sale of its products
 worldwide and it is claimed that net sales revenue is
 approx. $5.8 Billions for the financial year 2019
 with a prospective growth rate at 30%. Hence, it is
 claimed that on account of tremendous promotion
 and publicity as well as the large volumes of sales,
 the members of public and trade and industry
 associate the said trade marks/ labels with the
 plaintiff company alone. 4.9 Therefore, it is claimed that in view of the plaintiff's
 proprietary rights both under statutory and common
 law in its said trademarks, its goodwill & reputation,
 and its copyrights, the plaintiff has the exclusive
 right to the use thereof and nobody can be permitted
 to use the same or any other deceptively similar
 trademark/label in any manner whatsoever in
 relation to any specification of goods without the
 leave and license of the plaintiff. 4.10 The plaintiff has alleged that in the first week of
 November, 2021, the plaintiff has been informed
 through its material investigative resources that the
 representatives/ concerned persons of the defendant
 have started manufacturing, marketing, soliciting, CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 7 of 31 -8- displaying, offering for sale and selling the
 impugned goods under the impugned trade marks/

 label , , and in the
 markets of New Delhi area viz. Connaught Place,
 Gole Market, Bengali Market, Chankyapuri, Mandir
 Marg and adjoining areas in clandestine and
 surreptitious manner and that too without issuing
 formal bills/ invoices. 4.11 It is also alleged that the defendant is engaged in
 large scale business of manufacturing, marketing,
 soliciting, selling, retailing, displaying and trading
 of, inter alia, jeans, T-shirt, apparel and other
 allied/related products [hereinafter referred to as the
 "said goods and business"]. The defendant, in
 relation to its impugned goods and business, has
 adopted and started using the plaintiff's said

 LEVI'S , TWO HORSE LOGO

 , LEVI the ARCUATE STITCHING

 DESIGN TRADE MARK with/without
 the combination with each other and/or with the other
 trademarks/labels of the Plaintiff [hereinafter referred
 to as impugned trademarks/labels] CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 8 of 31 -9- 4.12 Thus, it is alleged that the defendant has
 dishonestly and malafidely adopted and started

 using LEVI'S , TWO HORSE

 LOGO , LEVI the ARCUATE
 STITCHING DESIGN TRADE MARK

 etc., which are visually, structurally
 identical and/or deceptively and confusingly
 similar to the registered trademarks/ labels of

 the plaintiff LEVI'S , TWO

 HORSE LOGO , LEVI the ARCUATE
 STITCHING DESIGN TRADE MARK

 etc. thereby causing confusion and
 deception amongst the unwary purchasing
 public and traders by making them believe that
 the origin of those goods is the plaintiff
 company. It is also the case of the plaintiff that
 in fact the defendant is indulging in
 counterfeiting the impugned goods, which is in
 complete violation of plaintiff's statutory and
 common law right in the said trademark/ trade
 name. It has been averred that by doing so, the CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 9 of 31 -10- defendant is not only damaging the reputation
 and goodwill of the plaintiff company by
 passing off his substandard products as that of
 the plaintiff company but is also causing
 financial loss to the plaintiff company by
 reaping unfair advantage of the repute and
 distinctive character of the trademarks of the
 plaintiff company. On these grounds, the
 plaintiff has filed the present suit against the
 defendant praying therein, inter alia, that decree
 of permanent injunction may be passed
 restraining the defendant by itself/himself as
 also through his individual proprietors/ partners,
 agents, representatives, distributors, assigns,
 heirs, successors, stockists and all others acting
 for and on his behalf from manufacturing,
 marketing, using, selling, soliciting, importing,
 exporting, displaying, distributing, advertising
 or in any manner dealing in or soliciting or
 selling/ soliciting through online platforms or
 online websites or using the impugned trade

 mark/ label LEVI'S , TWO

 HORSE LOGO , LEVI the ARCUATE
 STITCHING DESIGN TRADE MARK

 etc. or any other word mark/trade CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 10 of 31 -11- marks/ label which may be identical with and/
 or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's said

 trade marks / label LEVI'S , TWO

 HORSE LOGO , LEVI the ARCUATE
 STITCHING DESIGN TRADE MARK

 etc. in relation to similar goods,
 thereby infringing plaintiff's registered
 trademarks, copyright and passing off his
 products as that of the plaintiff. 5. The suit was accompanied with applications - one under
 Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 CPC and another under Order
 XXVI Rule 9 CPC seeking ex parte ad interim injunction
 and appointment of local commissioner respectively. After
 hearing the counsel of plaintiff, the said applications were
 allowed, vide common order dated 24-11-2021 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of the Court, thereby granting an ex parte
 ad interim injunction in favour of plaintiff and against the
 defendant, and Local Commissioner was also appointed to
 visit and search the premises of defendant with certain
 conditions. It appears that subsequent to execution of local
 commission, the plaintiff got substituted name of John Doe
 entity with the name of defendant named above and
 amended memo of parties was filed in this regard on record. 6. Summons of the suit and notice of accompanying CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 11 of 31 -12- applications were issued to the defendant in terms of the
 relevant order. The Defendant put his appearance through
 counsel.Written statement was filed by defendant and
 replication to written statement was also filed by the
 plaintiff. 7. At this juncture, it may be noted that the present case was
 received by this Court on 22-08-2022, as already noted
 above in Para no.2, and an application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC was moved on behalf of the
 plaintiff seeking amendment of the suit, thereby enhancing
 specified value to be above Rs.3 lacs, so as to bring the
 present suit within the ambit of the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 , in view of the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in case of Vishal Pipes Limited (supra), which was
 allowed vide order dated 13-12-2023 passed by Ld.
 Predecessor of this Court and the defendant was directed to
 file written statement to the amended plaint within 30 days
 from the date of said order. However, defendant failed to
 file any written statement despite grant of sufficient time
 and opportunities and thus, his right to file amended
 written statement was closed vide order dated 26-10-2023,
 passed by Ld. Predecessor of this Court. Further, the
 defendant eventually stopped appearing in this matter and
 consequently, he was proceeded against ex parte, vide
 order dated 15-01-2024 passed by the Court. 8. In view of above,the position as emerges on record, is
 that although, written statement was filed by defendant to
 the original plaint, yet he failed to file written statement to CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 12 of 31 -13- the amended plaint. 9. In support of its case, the plaintiff company has examined
 only one witness i.e. its AR namely Mrs. Meena Bansal as
 PW1. She led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit
 [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint
 and relied on the following documents:- 10 . On statement of AR of the plaintiff, the ex parte evidence
 of the plaintiff was closed on 20-08-2024. After closure of
 PE, ex parte final arguments were heard. 11 . It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to give
 up prayer/relief regarding restraining the defendant from
 disposing off or dealing with his assets and rendition of
 accounts as prayed in prayer Clause No. 36(b) and 36(e)
 respectively of the amended plaint. Accordingly, the
 plaintiff was permitted to give up the said reliefs,vide
 order dated 20-08-2024. In view thereof, the suit survives
 only with respect to reliefs of permanent injunction
 whereby the plaintiff has sought permanent injunction CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 15 of 31 -16- against the defendant from using the impugned trademark,
 as also for delivery up and damages to the tune of
 Rs.3,01,000/-. 12 . I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have
 also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF

13 . Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that
 the entire testimony of PW-1 has remained unchallenged
 and un-rebutted from the side of defendant and therefore,
 the plaintiff company is entitled to the decree,
 as prayed for. In support of his submissions,
 Counsel also relied upon the documents [Ex.PW1/1 to
 Ex.PW1/16]. 14 . Further, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the
 trademarks/labels LEVI's are well known trademarks of
 the plaintiff and are registered in India under various
 classes of the Trademark Rules 2002, which are valid and
 subsisting in favour of the plaintiff company till date.
 Further, the art works involved in the trademarks/ labels is
 original artistic work and the plaintiff holds copyright
 therein. Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff spends
 huge amount of money in advertising and promotion of its
 products and said marks enjoy a huge goodwill and
 reputation in business community and public in general in
 India and across the world. 15 . Further, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has relied upon the report
 of Local Commissioner and submitted that Ld. Local
 Commissioner, while executing the commission in terms
 of the order passed by this Court, had found infringed
 goods bearing falsified impugned trademark/ label from
 the premises of the defendant in his presence, which
 establishes that the defendant was involved in the illegal
 activities. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff further submitted that
 Local Commissioner's Report can be read in evidence in
 terms of Order XXVI Rule 10(2) CPC and for this
 purpose, he also relied upon the judgment of our own
 Hon'ble High Court in case titled as " M L Brother LLP v.
 Mahesh Kumar Bhrualal Tanna" [CS (COMM) 126/2022,
 decided on 12th May, 2022]. 16 . Further, he submitted that the use of impugned
 trademark/label in similar goods as adopted by the
 defendant, is identical and/ or confusingly or deceptively
 similar to the registered trademark of the plaintiff i.e.
 LEVI's and thus, same amounts to not only committing
 fraud upon the plaintiff company but also upon the unwary
 general public, due to which the plaintiff company suffers
 huge monetary loss and its goodwill and reputation is also
 at stake and therefore, he urged that the suit may be
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant,
 thereby restraining the defendant and all others acting for
 and on his behalf from using said impugned
 trade-mark/ label. ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION: 17 . I have considered the submissions made on behalf of the
 plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant material
 available on records. JURISDICTION

18 . Firstly, as regards jurisdiction of this Court, it is submitted
 by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that defendant is marketing,
 displaying, soliciting, offering for sale, selling & networking,
 using in course of trade the impugned goods and business
 under the said LEVI'S® trademark/label in the markets of
 New Delhi area viz. Connaught Place, Gole Market, Bengali
 Market, Chanakyapuri, Mandir Marg and adjoining areas in
 clandestine and surreptitious manner, without issuing formal
 bills/invoices. It is stated that the dynamic effect of
 defendant's said activities is being felt in New Delhi and and
 thus, whole or part cause of action for filing the present suit
 has arisen u/s 20 CPC. 19 . Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff is also carrying on
 its said goods and business under its said trade marks/
 label in New Delhi through its exclusive and special
 agents/ stores at: LEVI'S EXCLUSIVE STORE, F19,
 Connaught Place, Ivory Place, New Delhi-110001, LEVI'S
 EXCLUSIVE STORE, B-19, Near McDonalds, Inner Circle,
 Connaught Place, Delhi- 110001 and LEVI'S EXCLUSIVE
 STORE 232-233, 1st Floor, DLF Promenade Mall,
 Vasantkunj Phase-2, Delhi, 110016, which are well within
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Further, it is argued that CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 18 of 31 -19- the plaintiff has extensive goodwill and reputation under
 the said trademark/ labels on account of the voluminous
 sales and advertisement within the jurisdiction of this
 Court. Further, the said goods and business of the plaintiff
 under said trademarks are also available, displayed,
 promoted, sold and delivered by the plaintiff through its
 own websites/ domain name i.e. www.levi.com,
 www.levi.in, and www.levistrauss.com, as well as through
 big online marketplace e-commerce websites like Flipkart,
 Amazon, Myntra etc., which are interactive in nature, and
 hence, same can be sold and purchased and delivered
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, it is
 contended that this Court further has also territorial
 jurisdiction to entertain and try the present suit within the
 meaning of S. 134 (2) of the Trademarks Act, 1999 and
 also under S. 62(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957. 20 . Further, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has also relied upon
 judgment of Hon'ble Division Bench of our own High
 Court in the case titled as " RSPL Limited v. Mukesh
 Sharma & Anr " reported as 2016 (68) PTC 178 [Del] [DB]
 and judgment in the case of " V Guard Industries Ltd. v.
 Sukan Raj Jain & Anr. " reported as 2021 (87) PTC 333
 [Del]. 21 . The PW1 has categorically deposed in her affidavit in
 evidence on identical lines of the averments made in the
 plaint. The PW-1 has also duly proved screenshots of
 plaintiff's brand available on its own website as well as
 other e-commerce websites such as Amazon, Flipkart, CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 19 of 31 -20- Myntra and AJIO as Ex.PW1/11 and Ex.PW1/12 (Colly.)
 respectively. As per these documents, it is duly shown that
 goods of the plaintiff under the said trademarks/ labels of
 the plaintiff are available on its own website as well as on
 e-commerce websites such as Amazon, Flipkart, Myntra,
 AJIO etc. Further, as per documents Ex.PW1/13 (Colly),
 it is also duly shown that plaintiff is having its Exclusive
 Stores within the locality of Connaught Place, which falls
 within territorial jurisdiction of this Court. 22 . The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted as the defendant has neither filed written
 statement nor has chosen to cross-examine PW1. 23 . Therefore, in view of the law as laid down by Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court in cases titled as " Banyan Holding (P)
 Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy & Anr. " reported as 2009
 SCC OnLine Del 3780; " World Wrestling Entertainment,
 Inc. v. Reshma Collection & Ors. " reported as 2014 (60)
 PTC 452 (Del.) (DB); and "Burger King v. Tekchand",
 reported as 2018 (76) PTC 90 (Del.), the Court is of the
 considered opinion that the plaintiff has been able to
 satisfy the test of purposeful availment of the goods under
 the registered trademarks of the plaintiff being available
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court, as stipulated
 in the said judgments delivered by Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court. 24 . In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of the
 facts and circumstances of the case and in view of the CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 20 of 31 -21- above cited judgments and keeping in view the fact that
 evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered opinion that
 at least part cause of action has arisen within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court and therefore, this Court has
 territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the suit. PERMANENT INJUNCTION: 25 . Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trademarks, to quote:- 26 . It is now well settled law, as also laid down by our own
 Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace &
 Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 22 of 31 -23- 63 (Del) that an infringement of trademarks is to be seen
 from the perspective of a layman, to quote:- Specific averment ought to be made that there are no
 disclaimers imposed on the mark and the mark stands
 renewed. Any licenses and assignments ought to be
 pleaded. (iii) xxxx (iv) In the case of (ii), the party ought to file the LPC
 prior to the commencement of the trial, if any aspect
 of the trademarks registration is being disputed by the
 opposite side" is duly registered as word mark and device mark, 'Arcuate
 Stitching Design Trade Mark' is duly registered as device
 mark, as also "Double Horse & Pant" as device mark, are CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 24 of 31 -25- registered in favour of the plaintiff since long. Further,
 during the course of final arguments, counsel of plaintiff
 has stated at Bar that the registration of said trademarks/
 word marks/ device marks stand renewed and same are
 valid till date. 30 . As already noted above, the defendant had filed his written
 statement to original plaint but he failed to file written
 statement to amended plaint in conformity with the
 provisions of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 . Moreover,
 it is no where case of the defendant as averred in the
 written statement, that the impugned trade marks/ labels
 are registered in his favour or he is licencee of the plaintiff.
 Furthermore, after filing the written statement, he stopped
 appearing in this case and consequently, was proceeded
 against ex parte. Even, he did not turn up to cross-examine
 PW-1. Therefore, the entire testimony of PW-1 has gone
 unrebutted, uncontroverted and unchallenged. Thus, the
 case of the plaintiff stood proved against the defendant on
 the basis of preponderance of probability. It is duly
 established on record that the trademarks/ labels/ word
 mark/ device marks "Levi's", 'Arcuate Stitching Design
 Trade Mark' and "Double Horse & Pant" are duly
 registered in favour of the plaintiff. 31 . Further, as already noted above, the Local Commissioner
 had also found infringed goods bearing falsified
 trademarks/labels of the plaintiff company Levi's from the
 premises of the defendant at the time of execution of
 commission. As per Local Commissioner's Report, as CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 25 of 31 -26- available on record, the defendant was found present at his
 premises i.e. Shop No. 5639, Ground Floor, Gali No.77,
 Regarpura, Karol Bagh, Delhi who introduced himself to
 be owner/ proprietor of "7 Seas Denim". On his inspection,
 Ld. Local Commissioner found infringed goods from said
 premises of the defendant, which were seized and handed
 over to him on superdari. Thereafter, Ld. Local
 Commissioner visited other premises of the defendant
 situated at Shop of 11/1, Amrit Kaur Puri, Tank Road,
 Karol Bagh, Delhi, where Mr. Subhash was found present
 who claimed to be Manager of the said firm. From the said
 premises, Ld. Local Commissioner has also found
 infringed goods bearing falsified trademarks/ labels
 LEVI's. The report further reveals that thereafter, Ld.
 Local Commissioner visited other premises of the
 defendant at Shop of 705/4, Agnikule Niwas, Karol Bagh,
 Delhi, which was godown, however, same was found
 locked. Mr. Bal Kishan Chauhan and Mr. Bahubali
 Chauhan met at the aforesaid address, who did not allow
 Ld. LC to break open the lock to execute the commission.
 Then, Ld. Local Commissioner visited at H. No.78, Block
 WZ, Vill. Dasghara, New Delhi, which was stated to be
 Manufacturing Unit of the defendant, where infringed
 goods were stated to be prepared. Mr. Satish Soni was
 found present at the said premises of the defendant who
 claimed himself to be Supervisor of the defendant's firm
 namely '7 Seas Denim'. The infringed goods were also
 found from the said premises. 32 . Thus, it is shown that the premises were searched in the
 presence of the defendant and /or his employees and
 infringed goods were seized from the premises of the
 defendant. The seized goods were handed over to the
 defendant and /or his employees on superdari, in terms of
 relevant orders. 33 . In the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case,
 the Court is of the view that the plaintiff has succeeded in
 proving that the defendant was manufacturing, stocking,
 distributing and selling goods bearing falsified trademark
 /trade name/ labels of the plaintiff company and therefore,
 trademarks and copyright of plaintiff company are required
 to be protected. Accordingly, the plaintiff is held entitled
 to decree of permanent injunction, whereby the defendant
 is required to be restrained from using trademark LEVI'S
 or any other word mark/ device mark /label which may be
 identical with and/ or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's
 said word marks/ device marks/ labels LEVI'S in relation
 to similar goods, thereby infringing plaintiff's registered
 trademarks, copyright and passing off his products as that
 of the plaintiff. DELIVERY UP: 34 . As already discussed, infringed goods bearing falsified
 trademark/logo of plaintiff company were seized by the
 Local Commissioner and were returned to the defendant
 and /or his employees on superdari. Therefore, the
 defendant is directed to delivery up all above seized
 infringed goods, besides all other impugned finished and CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 27 of 31 -28- unfinished materials bearing the impugned and violative
 trade mark/label to the plaintiff company for the purpose
 of destruction and erasure. DAMAGES: 35 . Ld. Counsel of plaintiff submitted that punitive damages
 may be awarded in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendant. In this case, the plaintiff has claimed damages
 to the tune of Rs.3,10,000/-. 35.1 On similar facts, in case titled as Super Cassettes
 Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. HRTN Cable Network , 2017
 SCC Online Delhi 10943, wherein the defendants
 were ex parte and did not participate in the
 proceeding, counsel for the plaintiff had sought
 punitive damages, which was declined in view of
 the judgment of Hon'ble Division Bench of Delhi
 High Court in case titled 'Hindustan Unilever
 Limited v. Reckitt Benckiser India Limited', ILR (2014) II Delhi 1288. 35.2 However as per law laid down by Hon'ble Division
 Bench in case of Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra),
 there is a need to see as to whether the case of plaintiff
 falls for exemplary damages. As already noted above,
 the Local Commissioner while executing the
 commission seized infringed goods from premises of
 the defendant in the presence of defendant and/or his
 employees and handed over the same to them on
 supardari. As per report of Ld. Local commissioner, CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 28 of 31 -29- total 258 infringed goods i.e. jeans bearing impugned
 trademarks/ logos Levi's were found from Regarpura,
 Karol Bagh, 42 packets of button, 13 packets of tag
 and 4 packets of label of impugned trademarks' logos
 from found from Tank Road, Karol Bagh and total
 135 jeans alongwith paper bags, buttons and tage were
 found from Vill. Dasghara, New Delhi while
 executing the commission by Ld. Local Commission.
 It is established that the defendant was manufacturing,
 stocking and selling/ passing off the infringed goods
 bearing impugned trade mark LEVI'S as that of the
 plaintiff's products thereby causing wrongful loss to
 plaintiff company and would have earned illegal
 profits. Further, if the seized infringed goods would
 have gone to the hands of the consumer/ general
 public, the reputation/goodwill of the plaintiff
 company would have gone down in the eyes of
 consumer/ general public as infringed goods were of
 average quality and were not up to the quality, as is
 being claimed by the plaintiff company. 35.3 In the case in hand, the defendant did not show up and
 participate in the proceedings in order to deprive the
 plaintiff to the benefit of rendition of accounts.
 Accordingly, keeping in view the overall facts and
 circumstances of the case including the quantum of
 infringed goods bearing impugned trademarks / logos
 as found by Ld. Local Commissioner while executing
 the commission and the relevant averments appearing CS (COMM.)/967/2022 Page 29 of 31 -30- in Para No.28 of the amended plaint to the effect that
 in the first week of November, 2021, the plaintiff has
 been informed that the defendant has started using the
 impugned trademarks/ logos, whereas, the present suit
 has been filed in the month of November, 2021 itself,
 the Court is of the opinion that the plaintiff company
 is entitled to exemplary damages quantified as
 Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh only). It is so
 ordered accordingly. RELIEF: 36 . In the light of the aforesaid discussion, the Court is of the
 view that the plaintiff has been able to prove its case on the
 basis of preponderance of probability. Thus, the suit is
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant
 and thus, the following reliefs are granted:-