(PER : HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.J. SHASTRI) 1. The petitioner, by way of present petition, has
 challenged the legality, validity and propriety of an order
 dated 31.3.2016 issued under Section 179 of the Income-tax
 Act,1961 (for short 'the Act') whereby, the corporate veil of a
 company is lifted and the directors are held to be defaulters
 within the meaning of Section 179 of the Act and it is this
 order which is made the subject matter of present petition. 2. Brief facts are as under : He asserted in the petition that one Mr.Pratik R. Shah was
 managing the affairs of the company and he merely brought
 the capital in the form of shares. Except remaining as a Page 2 of 65 HC-NIC Page 2 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 director on the board of the company, he in reality had not
 acted as such and also contended that he had put the
 resignation on 5.9.2005. 2.2 The petitioner further contended that though the
 petitioner had resigned from the company, he served with a
 notice on 11.10.2013 issued under Section 179 of the Act
 whereby, an attempt was made to saddle with liability of the
 company. To the said notice, the petitioner gave reply on
 17.10.2013 and thereafter, for a pretty long time for almost a
 period of one year, no response in that regard was received by
 the petitioner. Later on, on 4.9.2014 he received a
 communication in the form of show cause notice to explain as
 to why he should not be held responsible to pay the dues of
 the company and against that show cause notice, through
 consultant the petitioner requested the authority on 10.9.2014
 to grant some time to enable him to take some steps and as
 such, upto 15.9.2014 time was granted. However, by that
 time, the petitioner instead of responding to notice has filed
 the petition before this Court being SCA No.12861 of 2014
 challenging the legality and validity of the said notice dated
 4.9.2014. This Court, while taking up the plea of the
 petitioner, found that while initiating such action, no adequate
 opportunity was given to the petitioner nor any proper
 procedure was followed and therefore, the action in purported
 exercise of power under Section 179 of the Act came to be
 quashed and the petition was partly allowed by an order dated
 12.2.2015 and consequently, directed to take steps in
 accordance with the provisions of law by keeping the rights
 and contentions of both the sides open and the petition came
 to be disposed of. order of this Court and thereafter, after observing the
 statutory provisions, issued a fresh show cause notice on
 19.6.2015 in detailed by giving all particulars and called upon
 the petitioner to explain as to why steps should not be taken
 as contemplated under Section 179 of the Act. To this notice,
 the petitioner appears to have replied on 24.7.2015 trying to
 explain his position as narrated above in brief and to this
 reply, an affidavit of Mr.Pratik R. Shah, one of the directors
 also came to be attached. An attempt is made by the
 petitioner to indicate that said Mr.Pratik R. Shah is the
 responsible person to the affairs of the company and not the
 petitioner. Along with the said reply to the show cause notice,
 a statement also came to be given with respect to allotment of
 shares, holding of the shares of each of the directors and also
 given the particulars with respect to Form No.32 in which an
 indication is given that the petitioner has resigned as a
 director w.e.f. 5.9.2005. In furtherance of this, in the
 meantime on 10.7.2015 and also on 10.10.2015, specific
 replies have been given that he is not the sole responsible
 person for conduct of a company. After such explanation, it
 appears from the record that on 14.12.2015 as well as on
 18.12.2015, correspondence took place between the
 petitioner and the department and on 21.12.2015, last reply
 appears to have been given through tax consultant by the
 petitioner and clarified his position that there is no question of
 liability of the petitioner with respect to affairs of the
 company. authority and the authority on 31.3.2016, was pleased to pass
 an order in exercise of power under Section 179 of the Act
 and came to the conclusion that petitioner has failed to prove
 his gross negligence, misfeasance or breach of duty in relation
 to the affairs of the company and by lifting the corporate veil
 of the public limited company in question, all the three
 directors including the petitioner are held to be defaulters
 within the meaning of Section 179 of the Act. 2.5 It is against this order which has been passed finally on
 31.3.2016 by the authority, the petitioner has filed the
 petition by invoking extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court. 3. Learned Senior Counsel, Mr.Saurabh Soparkar with
 learned advocate, Mr.J.R.Parikh for the petitioner has
 contended that the action initiated by the respondent
 authority is not just and proper, without authority of law and
 on this count alone, same be quashed and set aside. It was
 also contended by the learned counsel for the petitioner that Section 179 of the Act ex-facie is not applicable to a public
 limited company and undisputedly, the petitioner company is
 a public limited company and therefore, from the initial step
 itself, invocation of Section 179 of the Act is impermissible
 and therefore, the action tantamount to be without authority
 of law. It was also contended by learned counsel that though
 the petitioner came to be appointed as a director on
 20.3.2005, he has not acted as such as the director and has
 not participated in transaction related to the company, has
 not signed any documents related to financial transactions,
 has also not signed any paper related to income-tax
 department and has not taken any decision nor has Page 5 of 65 HC-NIC Page 5 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 participated in the affairs of the company. It was further
 contended by the learned counsel that on 5.9.2005, the
 petitioner has resigned from the company and therefore, no
 liability can be fastened upon the petitioner. It was also
 contended by the learned counsel that the petitioner is not
 guilty of any misuse of power nor any allegation pertaining to
 any misuse of his position as a director nor has grossly
 neglected nor has committed any breach of duty in any
 manner is alleged and since the affairs of the company were
 not looked after by the petitioner, the authority ought not to
 have saddled the petitioner with liability of company. Learned
 counsel for the petitioner has further contended that simply
 because at the relevant point of time, the petitioner was
 holding a maximum share capital to the extent of 98% would
 not sufficient enough to attract the provisions of Section 179 of the Act. It was also contended that none of the conditions
 which are to be established for invoking the provisions of Section 179 of the Act are establishing in case of the
 petitioner and therefore, in absence of any such condition
 precedent having been satisfied, it is not open for the
 respondent authority to impose upon any liability of the
 company. Learned counsel has further contended that there
 was adequate material available on the file of the authority to
 indicate that it was Mr.Pratik R. Shah, who was one of the
 directors, who was dealing with the company and not the
 petitioner. It was contended that though adequate material
 qua that is produced even by the petitioner, the authority has
 assumed the jurisdiction to fix the liability of petitioner which
 action is bad in law, not permissible and therefore, same is
 required to be set aside. Learned counsel has further
 contended that though the lifting of corporate veil principle is Page 6 of 65 HC-NIC Page 6 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 vogue but, at the same time, the situation for that must be
 appearing on the record which is completely missing in the
 present case and therefore, it was not open for the authority
 to lift the corporate veil and pass an order. It was also
 contended that though the company was registered and
 incorporated as a public limited company, the authority has
 erroneously assumed as if it is akin to a private limited
 company and thereby, applied Section 179 of the Act. Ex-facie
 a bare reading of this statutory provision is meant for the
 private limited company and therefore, the action itself is
 beyond the scope of authority and therefore, deserves to be
 quashed and set aside. 3.1 Learned counsel for the petitioner has further contended
 that concept of vicarious liability cannot be inferred by the
 authority more particularly when the petitioner has never
 participated as a director. Unless a fraud is practiced or the
 petitioner is beneficiary out of it then only, it can be said that
 corporate veil deserves to be lifted or pierced. On the case on
 hand, according to learned counsel for the petitioner, no such
 circumstances appearing qua the petitioner and therefore, in
 absence of any contingency, resort to Section 179 of the Act is
 impermissible. Learned counsel further contended that even
 on facts also, the authority has not established even remotely
 that the petitioner is responsible for the affairs of the
 company. It was pointed out by the learned counsel that
 corporate veil can be lifted or pierced if either statute permits
 the same or any extraordinary circumstances prevailing and
 compelling the authority to lift the veil. By referring to the
 averments contained in the petition, learned counsel has
 submitted that no such situation is reflecting which would Page 7 of 65 HC-NIC Page 7 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 permit the authority to pass such kind of order insofar as
 petitioner is concerned and therefore, learned counsel has
 submitted that in the absence of any guilt on the part of
 petitioner in relation to affairs of the company, no action can
 be initiated against the petitioner and thereby, learned
 counsel submitted that no such step could have been taken.
 Learned counsel further submitted that even in case of
 Pravinbhai M. Khemi V/s. Assistant Commissioner of
 Income-tax Central Circle-2 and Ors., reported in 353 ITR
 585, the principle of lifting of corporate veil is analyzed but,
 the same was in altogether different set of circumstance in
 which there was a huge demand of more than 150 crores
 which was the subject matter of controversy and the Court
 found that the company was as such structurally akin to
 private limited company but intentionally not registered as
 such with a view to escape the responsibility under Section
 179 of the Act and therefore, learned counsel submitted that
 said decision can never be applied by the authority as a
 straitjacket formula and therefore, learned counsel submitted
 that action qua the petitioner be quashed and set aside.
 Learned counsel for the petitioner by resorting to some of the
 documents attached to the petition compilation ultimately
 contended that the petitioner is not responsible for affairs of
 the company and therefore, by taking aid to the provision of Section 179 of the Act, no liability can be fastened upon the
 petitioner and thereby, has requested the Court to grant the
 relief as prayed for in the petition. 4. To oppose this stand of the petitioner, learned Senior
 Counsel, Mr.M.R.Bhatt for the revenue has contended that
 there is a systematic design adopted by the petitioner and the Page 8 of 65 HC-NIC Page 8 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 company's name has been utilized which is for the purpose of
 seeking accommodation entries. Learned counsel for the
 revenue has submitted that simply because the petitioner is
 not a signatory to the documents of the company, is not
 sufficient enough to absolve him from responsibility and
 therefore, the order passed by the authority is just and
 proper. Learned counsel further submitted that the petitioner
 has joined the company in March,2005 and has remained upto
 September,2005 and in between, the holding of the share
 capital of the company in the hands of the petitioner was to
 the extent of 98.33% during the relevant year. It was
 submitted by the learned counsel that the record has
 sufficiently established that Hirak Biotech Company was
 formed with a view to provide accommodation entries in the
 form of bogus share capital and share premium and therefore,
 when such a situation of extraordinary nature is prevailing or
 emerging from the record, the authority is thoroughly justified
 in passing the order. Learned counsel has further drawn the
 attention of the Court that as on 30.3.2005, the share capital
 of the Hirak Biotech Ltd. was only Rs.5 lacs and thereafter,
 upon induction of petitioner as a director, the share capital
 strength has increased to Rs.7 crores and mostly the equity
 shares were held by him. It was also pointed out that total
 equity shares of the company was of Rs.30 lacs at the relevant
 time, out of which in the hands of the petitioner such shares
 to the extent of Rs.29.50 lacs and therefore, the petitioner's
 holding at the relevant point of time was to the extent of more
 than 98%. Learned counsel for the revenue has further drawn
 the attention of the Court that though the company in
 question is incorporated as public limited company, the
 company has not involved public in any substantive form and Page 9 of 65 HC-NIC Page 9 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 the characteristic of the affairs of the company are found to
 be akin to the private limited company and therefore, the
 authority has rightly come to the conclusion that company in
 question was treated as defacto private limited company and
 therefore, the petitioner is rightly held to be responsible.
 Learned counsel for the revenue has submitted that normally
 when such kind of huge share capital is in the hands of the
 petitioner, as a natural consequence he would be active in the
 affairs of the company. But unnatural conduct shown by the
 petitioner that though he was major shareholder, had never
 raised any voice against functioning of either company or of
 Mr.Pratik R. Shah in any manner as contended and rather
 provided full support to Mr.Pratik R. Shah and therefore also,
 there appears to be a serious dereliction of duty on the part of
 petitioner being the director holding a major share capital.
 Learned counsel for the revenue has further submitted that
 ample opportunities were given and all possible efforts were
 made by the department to realize the huge tax demand of the
 company but have failed to realize any money. It was also
 pointed out that for the Assessment Year 2006-07 relevant to
 FY 2005-06, the company had fixed asset of Rs.3,14,19,402/-,
 sundry debtors of Rs.46,72,380/- and cash and bank balances
 to the extent of Rs.1,06,02,103/- and loans and advances were
 Rs.6,23,56,433/-. But upon attachment through proceedings
 under Section 226(3) of the Act, it has been reported that
 balances of the company with respect to debtors or bank had
 zero balance and during the course of time, the property in
 question have been sold in the month of February,2009. There
 was a huge demand of other financial institutions as well and
 therefore, learned counsel for the revenue has submitted that
 entire affairs of the company was allowed by the petitioner in Page 10 of 65 HC-NIC Page 10 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 such a manner to be operated which may ultimately lead to
 huge scam and out of that affairs of the company, the total
 liability accrued to tax dues only of the company upon regular
 assessment to the extent of Rs.240.08 lacs including penalty
 and subject to chargeability of interest under Section 220(2) of the Act and therefore, when such a huge claim of the
 department has remained outstanding for the relevant year in
 which the petitioner was a director, though silent is equally
 responsible for the ultimate outcome of the company and
 therefore, the authority has rightly passed an order under Section 179 of the Act and therefore, in this view of the
 matter, learned counsel for the revenue contended that no
 extraordinary jurisdiction be exercised in favour of the
 petitioner. 4.1 It was also contended by the learned counsel that
 conduct on the part of the petitioner is such which smacks a
 clear doubt about the version which has been projected and
 also pointed out that maximum number of cash flow which has
 come in the bank accounts of the company has been during
 the tenure of the petitioner and therefore, huge
 accommodation entries have been executed during the course
 of time when the petitioner was director and therefore, simply
 because the petitioner has walked away from the company in
 September,2005, he cannot be absolved from responsibilities
 which accrued to the company over the period of time and
 therefore, the learned counsel for the revenue has submitted
 to dismiss the petition. Learned counsel further submitted
 that series of decisions have taken the view that if such kind
 of extraordinary circumstances are prevailing, it is always
 open for the authority as well as to this Court to lift the Page 11 of 65 HC-NIC Page 11 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 corporate veil of the company and therefore, the authority has
 rightly passed the order which is impugned in the petition.
 Learned counsel has further pointed out that none of the
 directors, though steps have been taken against them, have
 responded. However, it is the petitioner, who is bringing the
 affidavit of Mr.Pratik R. Shah, who is trying to take entire
 burden upon him just with a view to accommodate the
 petitioner as it seems and therefore, such kind of attempt
 inter-se between the directors and the person of close nexus,
 cannot be allowed to be encouraged any further and
 therefore, requested the Court that authority has rightly
 exercised the jurisdiction and such detailed order with cogent
 reasons passed in exercise of statutory powers may not be
 interfered with in extraordinary equitable jurisdiction of this
 Court and therefore, ultimately learned counsel submitted to
 dismiss the petition by granting no relief in favour of the
 petitioner. 5. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the
 respective parties and having gone through the materials on
 record, following facts, which are prevailing on record, cannot
 be unnoticed which led us to think about lifting the corporate
 veil: So practically everything was vanished. (6) The record indicates that though there is a plea of
 petitioner that he has nothing to do with the company
 except remaining as an additional director, he is not
 party to the transaction, he is not connected with affairs
 of the company internally but, record reveals that
 though the company is incorporated on 20.3.2005, the
 actual business and the commencement appears to have
 taken place from 13.4.2005. Meaning thereby that the
 commencement of business has taken place only after
 the petitioner came to be introduced as an additional
 director on 20.3.2005. The certificate of commencement
 of business issued under Section 149(3) of the
 Companies Act which reflects this position which is a
 part of petition compilation on Page-29 and therefore,
 substantially appears that it is the petitioner, who upon
 holding capital to the extent of 98% shares in the
 company, has engineered the business, though it is
 claimed by the petitioner that other directors were
 looking after the affairs of the company. It appears from
 the record further that this huge demand which has
 been crystallized by the department is for the relevant
 financial year during which the petitioner was the Page 14 of 65 HC-NIC Page 14 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 director. (7) It is further emerged from the record that upon
 taking steps against the Company for recovery by the
 department in a gradual process, the land held by the
 Company came to be sold on 25/2/2009, balance came to
 be withdrawn from the bank accounts and thereafter,
 the bank accounts have also been closed down and
 surprising feature is that on 5/9/2005, said Mr. Ajay
 Patel resigned from the Company as Director. So,
 everything appeared to be substantially during the
 period of one of the Directors, Mr. Ajay Patel from
 20/3/2005 to 5/9/2005. (8) Practically, the Company though named as Hirak
 Biotech Limited has acted practically as a Private
 Limited Company altogether and the Directors appeared
 to have acted in such a detrimental way which falls
 within the purview of section 179 of the Income Tax Act.
 There were huge financial transactions, serious default,
 total non-cooperation in the Company and the Company
 appears to have been spearheaded by one of the
 Directors only. There were serious defaults in financial
 transactions with Jammu and Kashmir Bank as also with
 Ahmedabad People's Co-Op. Bank of huge amounts and
 therefore, all these combination of circumstances led us
 to believe that this is a fit case to resort to a principle of
 lifting of corporate veil. (9) Another surprising feature is that though
 persistently summons came to be issued to Directors, Page 15 of 65 HC-NIC Page 15 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 none of the Directors of the Company appeared on the
 date of hearing and another Director, Mr. Pratik R.
 Shah, who is said to have acted on behalf of the
 Company has also neither appeared nor filed any
 submissions and it appeared that by filing an affidavit,
 he appears to have shielded one of the Directors, Mr.
 Ajay S.Patel. All these circumstances cannot be said to
 be normal circumstances and therefore, it appears that
 the Income Tax Authorities have rightly exercised the
 powers by way of detailed order which came to be
 passed on 31/3/2006 which is sought to be challenged in
 the present proceedings. (10) Further it appears that the case of the department
 is that substantial accommodation entries have been
 made during the course of time when the petitioner was
 a director. There is a sizable amount of entries which
 reveal that substantial cash deposit took place in
 Kalupur Commercial Bank account to the extent of
 Rs.48 lacs which is reflecting from the assessment
 order dated 20.12.2008 with respect to Assessment
 Year 2006-07. The assessment order during the course
 of hearing of the petition is presented for perusal by the
 learned counsel for the petitioner. (11) Further it appears from the record that though the
 petitioner claimed to have not participated in the affairs
 of the company, a reasonable contrary inference which
 has been drawn appears to be sound to some extent as
 the commencement certificate of the company is after Page 16 of 65 HC-NIC Page 16 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 the induction of the petitioner as additional director. (12) Further it also appears that Memorandum of
 Association of the company is the vital key to get the
 knowhow about the company's affairs. In law,
 Memorandum of Association is charter which contains
 the fundamental conditions upon which alone a
 company can be incorporated and any action outside
 the scope of Memorandum of Association will be ultra
 vires, beyond the powers of the company and hence,
 void. Now in the context of this position, if a bare look
 to the Memorandum of Association is to be viewed, it
 would reflect that the main object of the company is to
 carry on the business of floriculture, agriculture,
 horticulture etc. and for immediate perusal, same is
 reproduced hereinafter : Now, in the context of this main object of the company
 for which it has been set up, what is reflecting from the
 record is that the company has executed its business that of
 trading and distribution of ice-cream quite de-hors from the
 main object for which the company appears to have been set
 up and this trading and distribution business of ice-cream is
 the case of company itself as is reflecting from the assessment Page 17 of 65 HC-NIC Page 17 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 order as referred to above. Therefore, under the
 circumstances it appears that the company is set up for
 different purpose than which is posed before the authority at
 the time of incorporation. Therefore, the inference which has
 been raised by the department that company is set up
 essentially for the purpose of accommodation entries might
 not be ignored, though attempt is made to establish contrary. 6. The Memorandum of Association contains various
 clauses. Clause 13 thereof deals with the issue of debentures
 or debenture-stock etc. But correspondingly if we look at the
 Articles of Association which governs the affairs of the
 company and its working. Some of the clauses contained in
 Articles of Association are worth to be considered which are
 also very relevant incidentally to the finding arrived at by the
 authority. Clause (4) onwards of Articles of Association deals
 with share capital affair of the company which indicates that
 the increase or decrease and the shares being consolidated or
 sub-divided in accordance with the regulation of the company
 and the legislative provisions for time being in that behalf.
 Clause (5) of the said Articles of Association deals with power
 to increase capital. Now, this if to be looked into, initial share
 capital structure of the company was only Rs.5 lacs as on
 31.3.2005. But the moment the petitioner came to be inducted
 as director, it has rocketed capital to the extent of Rs.7 crores
 and therefore, that substantial increase in the share capital
 requires certain procedure which has been stipulated in
 clause (5) which reads as under : 7. Clause 5(b) of the Articles of Association indicates that
 when share capital is to be increased which shall be in
 general meeting after properly considering the relevant
 provisions of the Act and subject to compliance of Section 97 of the Act. Now, though the case is tried to be made out that
 the petitioner was a dormant director in the company had
 nothing to do with the affairs of the company but, the
 commencement of business initiated after the induction of the
 petitioner as director and that increased share capital is
 brought by the petitioner. 8. Further, in this context if we peruse clause (13) of the
 Articles of Association which governs the working of the
 company which relates to further issue of share wherein, it
 has been mentioned that where at the time after the expiry of
 two years from formation of the company or at any time after
 expiry of one year from allotment of shares in the company
 made for the first time after its formation, whichever is Page 19 of 65 HC-NIC Page 19 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 earlier, it is proposed to increase the subscribed capital of the
 company by allotment of further shares whether out of the
 unissued capital or out of the increases share capital then,
 certain steps to be contemplated which reads as under : HC-NIC Page 20 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-clause
 (1) thereof, the further shares, aforesaid may be offered
 to any persons (whether or not those persons include the
 persons referred to in clause (a) of sub-clause 91) hereof
 in any manner whatsoever. (a) If a special resolution to that effect is passed by the
 company in General Meeting, or (b) Where no such special resolution is passed, if the
 votes cast (whether on a show of hands or on a poll as
 the case may be ) in favour of the proposal contained in
 the resolution moved in the general meeting (including
 the casting vote, if any,of the Chairman) by the members
 who, being entitled to do so, vote in person,or where
 proxies are allowed, by proxy, exceed the votes, if any,
 cast against the proposal by members so entitled and
 voting and the Central Government is satisfied, on an
 application made by the Board of Directors in this behalf,
 that the proposal is most beneficial to the company. (3) Nothing in sub-clause (c) of (1) hereof shall be
 deemed: PROVIDED THAT the terms of issue of such debentures
 or the terms of such loans include a term providing for Page 21 of 65 HC-NIC Page 21 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 such option and such term : And this clause if we peruse would indicate that facts on
 hand have not clarified whether the same is complied with or
 not because the company has with the aid and assistance of
 petitioner has increased its share capital within two and half
 months only. This issue appears to have not been dealt with
 by the authority which circumstances is appearing from the
 record itself. 9. Further, while taking step against the petitioner
 vigorously, it appears that the department has initiated action
 and made all possible efforts to recover huge revenue demand
 as crystallized from the company but, all efforts have been in
 vain and most surprising factor which is revealing from the
 record is that none of the Directors have cooperated with the
 department nor have presented themselves in the course of
 this recovery proceedings. It further reveals that this demand
 substantially is related to the period in which the petitioner
 may for a short time but was a Director. These steps are very
 much reflected from the order which has been considered by Page 22 of 65 HC-NIC Page 22 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 the authority and this sequence of steps for realizing demand
 deserves reproduction hereinafter: 9.1 From the aforesaid situation which is prevailing, it
 appears that all the directors of the company have
 systematically evaded the liability of the department. 10. Further, it is found from the record that petitioner has
 resigned from the company in September,2005 within a short
 span but, thereafter it appears that there is no substantial
 business of the company and after that only which is left there
 is huge accrual of debts of the company and for recovery of Page 28 of 65 HC-NIC Page 28 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 that, even the properties have been auctioned and sold away
 under the steps of Securitization Act and therefore, it appears
 that after resignation of the petitioner what has been left with
 the company is huge liabilities only. However, be that as it
 may, fact remains that huge demand to the extent of
 Rs.240.82 lacs of the tax revenue remained outstanding and
 despite aforesaid vigorous steps, nothing is recovered from
 the company which has compelled the department to initiate
 action under Section 179 of the Act against all the responsible
 directors. 11. This factual background stated above which is reflecting
 from the record compels the Court to examine minutely the
 affairs of the company, the responsibility and role of the
 directors and the statutory provision which is resorted to by
 the department. The factual background is already narrated
 above and hence, no further analysis is required to be made in
 that context. However, in relation to that affair if we look at
 the position of some of the issues in law, it appears that
 something untoward has definitely taken place after induction
 of the present petition as the director. 11.1 This entire factual matrix would clearly indicate that this
 position of the company in a gradual process to a virtual
 closure is on account of gross neglect, misfeasance or beach
 of duty on the part of directors in relation to the affairs of the
 company and therefore, the conditions which are contained in Section 179 of the Act before its invocation are appearing on
 the face of it which rightly visualized by the department for
 passing the order which is impugned in the petition. incorporated with a strength of initial directors but, within a
 very short span of almost two and half months only, contrary
 to norms the petitioner came to be inducted as the director in
 March,2005 and certificate of commencement of business
 came to be obtained by the company only after the petitioner
 being inducted as additional director. Therefore, it appears to
 this Court that though in front the directors' names have been
 projected but, behind those directors the petitioner appears to
 be a key person looking to the stiff rise in the share capital
 only after induction of petitioner. It further appears that
 Mr.Pratik R. Shah is projected as a key person, who is
 substantially looking after the affairs of the company as the
 main director appears to be a person who took on his shoulder
 all the responsibilities, though having negligible contribution
 in the company and most suspicious part is that those
 directors have not cooperated with the proceedings or have
 not faced the steps taken by the department. But it is the
 petitioner only who secured the affidavit of Mr.Pratik R. Shah
 and has placed before the department to save himself from
 the proceedings. This solitary circumstance itself raises
 serious doubt about the explanation which has been tendered
 by the petitioner. The relevant clauses contained under
 Memorandum of Association as well as Articles of Association
 lead to a conclusion that the company has not done or
 executed any core business for which it has been set up. The
 main object of the company's formation which is reflected in
 the Memorandum of Association is quite de-hors than what
 has been dealt with by the company and therefore, the theory
 of department that company is essentially set up for
 accommodation entries appears to be significant. learned counsel for the petitioner that except bringing share
 capital, the petitioner was not concerned with the affairs of
 the company and everything has been done by other directors.
 Now, to deal with this contention if we peruse the statutory
 provisions contained under Section 166 of the Companies Act,
 certain duties are spelt out with respect to the obligation of
 directors of the company. Perusal of this statutory provision
 would indicate that director of a company shall exercise his
 duties with due and reasonable care, skill and diligence, and
 shall exercise independent judgment and further, a director of
 a company shall not assign his office or any assignment so
 made, shall be void. Now, this statutory provision dealing with
 duty of the director has indicated that other director is
 supposed to take his office with due diligence on account of
 fiduciary obligation with the company. There are series of
 cases in which it has been held that the position of a director
 of a company is fiduciary relationship with the company and
 director is supposed to or under a legal obligation to observe
 the utmost good faith towards the company in any transaction
 with it or in its behalf and therefore, looking to this obligation
 of the petitioner towards the company, he cannot plead
 ignorance completely about the affairs of the company which
 has practically led virtually a company to a closure. This
 fiduciary obligation does not cease with the resignation. As
 said earlier, sub-section (3) of Section 166 of the Companies
 Act which spelled out that director shall exercise his duties
 with due and reasonable care and based upon which the
 Supreme Court in case of N. Narayanan V/s. Adjudicating
 Officer, SEBI, reported in AIR 2013 SC 3191 has held that, Page 31 of 65 HC-NIC Page 31 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 'failure of a corporate governance on the part of directors if
 they failed to exercised due care and diligence and thereby,
 allowing fabrication of figures and false disclosure, they would
 be liable for such omissions and commissions.' Relevant
 observations of the said decision are reproduced hereinafter : 40. The appellant has taken the stand, as already
 stated, that even though he was a whole time Director
 he was not conversant with the accounts and finance
 and was only dealing with the human resource
 management of the company, hence, he had no
 fraudulent intention to deceive the investors. We find
 it difficult to accept the contention. The appellant,
 admittedly, was a whole time Director of the company, as
 regards the preparation of the annual accounts, the
 balance-sheet and financial statement and laying of
 the same before the company at the Annual General
 Meeting and filing the same before the Registrar of the Page 32 of 65 HC-NIC Page 32 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 Companies as well as before SEBI, the Directors of
 the company have greater responsibility, especially
 when the company is a registered company. Directors
 of the companies, especially of the listed companies,
 have access to inside knowledge, such as, financial
 position of the company, dividend rates, annual
 accounts etc. Directors are expected to exercise the
 powers for the purposes for which they are conferred.
 Sometimes they may misuse their powers for their
 personal gain and makes false representations to the
 public for unlawful gain." 12.2 So, even in cases where director is leaving the matter to
 the discretion of other directors without supervision and also
 for making loans without inquiry for what purpose the loans
 were made and consequently, when the company suffered a
 loss in transaction the directors were held to be responsible
 as held in case of Dorchester Finance Co. Ltd. V/s.
 Stebbings, reported in 1 Co Lawyers 38 (USA) and
 therefore, looking to this proposition of law, the stand which
 has been taken that petitioner was completely unaware about
 the fact and everything was done by Mr.Pratik R. Shah is not
 an excuse available to the petitioner from absolving from the
 crystallized liability. The statute does not permit a director of
 a company to assign his office to be left to others and
 therefore, consequences he must suffer on account of such
 negligence. Such assignment shall be void as impermissible in
 the statute and therefore, defence which has been tried to be
 projected that everything is done by the others is not available
 to the petitioner. The fiduciary position of a director in a
 company does not permit the directors to throw always up
 their hands and say that we knew nothing as did not take part
 and therefore, considering this position of petitioner in the
 company we do not propose to allow such defence to be Page 33 of 65 HC-NIC Page 33 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 accepted. On the contrary, we feel that a director with a
 sizable amount of holding structure of the company can never
 be allowed to take such plea to keep himself away from the
 responsibilities under the guise of resignation. 12.3 Now, in the context of this situation if we examine the
 principle of lifting of corporate veil, it seems that the authority
 has rightly applied this principle. The principle of separate
 legal entity has been dealt with by a well recognized case of
 Saloman V/s. Saloman & Co. Ltd. wherein, it is accepted
 that when a company is incorporated, all dealings are with the
 company and all persons behind the company are
 disregarded, however important they may be. This means that
 there is veil drawn between the company and its members. It
 has been held that normally, this principle of corporate
 personality of a company is to be respected to. Howsoever,
 when the people start misusing this veil of corporate
 personality then it becomes necessary for the courts to
 pierced the corporate veil and look to the persons who are in
 fact the real beneficiaries and this well recognized principle of
 lifting of corporate veil or piercing the corporate veil is held to
 be well accepted in extraordinary circumstances which are
 reflecting from the background of case on hand. Though a
 defence is set up by the petitioner that everything has been
 done after his resignation but, upon examiation it appears
 that in a relevant year when substantial transactions and the
 huge cash deposits have come, can be said to be during the
 tenure of the directorship of the petitioner. 13. This well recognized principle of corporate veil can be
 lifted if the company is used as a means to evade tax or to Page 34 of 65 HC-NIC Page 34 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 circumvent the tax obligation and in that case , an individual
 shareholder may also be liable to pay the income-tax. The
 Supreme Court in case of Juggilal Kamlapat V/s.
 Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P., reported in 1964 (52) ITR
 811 has held that the Court is entitled to lift the mask of
 corporate entity if it is used for tax evasion or to circumvent
 the tax obligations and therefore, in such a situation, the
 person concerned can be held to be liable for income-tax. In
 case of Commissioner of Income-tax V/s. Sri Meenakshi Mills,
 Madurai, reported in AIR 1967 SC 819, has also spelt out the
 proposition that the Court is empowered to lift the corporate
 veil if the company is used as a means to circumvent the
 obligation. 13.1 There are series of cases in which for the purpose of
 protection of revenue, the authority as well as the Court is
 entitled to lift the corporate veil and see behind it and fix the
 liability of person concerned, howsoever he may be. 14. The law on the issue is aptly clear that section which is
 applicable is related to section 179 of the Act. By now judicial
 pronouncements have made it clear that concept of lifting or
 piercing the corporate veil to crack the corporate shell can be
 resorted to even in case of Public Limited Company. No doubt,
 the Courts have to cautiously deal with the said issue but, at
 the same time, there is no embargo not to lift the corporate
 veil. Some of the pronouncements on the issue are profitably
 to be referred to. A Division Bench of this Court in the case of Dhaval N. Patel Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax reported in 2014(184) ComCas 367 after considering the
 law on the issue has observed in paragraph No.6 as under: The statute, however, has created a situation
 whereby they can be jointly and severally held
 liable. In the instant case, the facts are
 apparently clear whereby conversion of the
 Amadhi Investment Limited from a Private
 Limited Company to a Public Limited Company
 was in the year 1995. The petitioners were
 appointed as Directors of Amadhi Investment
 Limited on 29.12.2005. They were not even
 shareholders of the Company from 5.6.1995 till
 30.9.2006. Therefore, there would not be any
 requirement of establishing that non recovery
 of the amount due to the Company could be
 attributed to any gross negligence, misfeasance
 or breach of duty on the part of the petitioners Page 39 of 65 HC-NIC Page 39 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 in relation to the affairs of the Company. Therefore, the very action under section 179 against the petitioners would not lie. The
 petitioners since were not Directors of the
 Company until 28.12.2005, for the liability of
 the Company pertaining to the Assessment Year
 in question i.e. on 200506, they cannot be held
 liable under section 179 of the Act. 24. Thus, the statute permits the lifting of the
 corporate veil section 179 of the Act as one of
 the modes of the statutes permitting such
 piercing of the veil provided of course Directors
 of the Private Company behind the veil are the
 beneficiaries and who have created such a
 complex web for their personal interest so as to
 defraud the Revenue. 25. When the facts are eloquent enough in the
 instant case, where the petitioners were never
 concerned with the affairs of the Company until
 28.12.2005 and the Company had already
 become Public Limited Company and by the
 time they became Directors, they were not even
 simple shareholders for the entire period till the
 year 2006, there does not arise any question of
 applying the ratio of decision of Pravinbhai M.
 Kheni vs. Assistant Commissioner of Income
 Tax and others (supra) or for that matter
 upholding the action of the respondents of
 invoking the provisions of section 179 of the
 Act. In the present case, as we can notice, the company
 M/s.Blue Information Technology is a Public Limited
 Company. It was incorporated as a Public Limited
 Company vide certificate of incorporation dated May
 25, 1992. It came out with a public issue in June,
 1996. The petitioner director of the said Company
 resigned on September 06, 1997. Admittedly, the
 dues are of the years 1995-96, 1996-97 and 1997-98.
 The notice was issued on October 14, 2001 under section 221(1) of the Act seeking to recover penalty
 for not having paid the dues of the company for the
 aforesaid years to the tune of Rs.297 lakh. It is not
 in dispute that the petitioner ceased to act as a Page 40 of 65 HC-NIC Page 40 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 director of the Company from September, 1997. With regard to the outstanding dues of the company
 for the assessment years 1995-96, 1996-97 and
 1997-98, the Company being a Public Limited
 Company from May 25, 1992 the certificate of
 incorporation having come, the very issuance of the
 notice cannot be sustained unless, of course, as
 provided in the case of Pravinbhai Kheni (supra) and
 followed thereafter, in the case of Sandeep A. Mehta (supra) there are glaring facts which would permit
 the lifting of the corporate veil. In the present case,
 as could be noticed, those foundational facts are
 completely missing. It is not even the case of the
 Revenue that such claim exist warranting lifting of
 veil. Except nonfulfillment of the obligation by the
 Company of the tax demands that had arisen as a
 result of the assessment of all these years, nothing
 comes on record for the Court to permit the piercing
 of corporate veil. The petitioner being the director of
 the public limited company, this provision is
 nonapplicable. Section 179 of the Act chooses to impose a vicarious
 liability on the director of a private company making
 his liability coextensive with the company in respect
 of arrears of tax of assessment year when he
 functions as a director. However, the income tax
 authority in relation to the liability of the Company
 shall need to insist upon its recovery and when the
 Company is unable to discharge such liability and
 the attempts of the Tax Authorities to realise such
 tax dues do not materialise, director needs to be
 issued the notice of recovery. These provisions are
 made in respect of private companies and subsection
 (2) of section 179 of the Act makes it abundantly
 clear that in the case of a public company or public
 limited company, the very provision is not
 applicable. As noted above, in absence of any
 contrary facts which either require this Court to
 pierce the corporate veil or anything to indicate that
 the Company is other than a public company, the
 invocation of section 179 of the Act itself shall have
 to be held bad. It would be, of course, the onus of
 the petitioner to establish that non-recovery of the
 amount of tax due to the Company could not be Page 41 of 65 HC-NIC Page 41 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 attributed to any gross negligence, misfeasance or
 breach of duty on the part of the petitioner in
 relation to the affairs of the private Company, but,
 the very action against the petitioner under section
 179 of the Act, when would not lie, the petition,
 therefore, deserves to be succeeded." 15. Yet in another decision, observations were made by the
 Division Bench of this Court in case of this very Ajay S. Patel
 Vs. Income Tax Officer-Ward 4(3) reported in 2015(375)
 ITR 72 and some of the observations are worth to be taken
 into consideration and therefore, relevant extract of said
 decision incorporated in paragraph No.6 is reproduced
 hereinafter: However, if the factors noted by the Assistant
 Commissioner in his impugned order dated
 15.4.2002 and highlighted by us in this
 judgement are duly established, it would
 certainly be a fit case where invocation of
 principle of lifting of corporate veil would be
 justified. Commissioner proceeded to record such findings
 without giving sufficient opportunity of hearing
 to the petitioner and without disclosing the
 necessary materials for coming to such a
 conclusion. 5) The impugned orders dated 15.4.2002 and
 revisional order dated 9.4.2003 are quashed. 6) The proceedings are however, placed back
 before the Assistant Commissioner for
 proceeding further in accordance with law after
 giving a notice to the petitioner indicating his
 tentative grounds why he desires to invoke the
 concept of lifting of corporate veil, giving
 sufficient opportunity to the petitioner to meet
 with such allegations. After giving opportunity of
 hearing to the petitioner and following the
 principles of natural justice it would be open for
 the Assistant Commissioner to pass fresh orders
 in accordance with law as may be found
 appropriate on the basis of material on record."" 19. The aforesaid position prevailing on record takes us to Page 47 of 65 HC-NIC Page 47 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 another vital and important issue as to whether the authority
 was justified to treat the company akin to a private limited
 company while passing the order. Though it appears from the
 certificate of incorporation, the words 'private limited' are not
 used and therefore, it is to be treated as public limited
 company and therefore, contended to be treated beyond the
 scope of Section 179 of the Act. But on close look at the
 affairs of the company, the manner in which the affairs
 proceeded with, all indicate that in actual terms the company
 has not acted as a public limited company in true sense and
 for that purpose, if we analyze the record which indicates that
 the company was formed with a share capital of Rs.5 lacs only
 and within a short span of two and half months only, sizable
 amount has been brought by the petitioner alone and that too,
 to the extent of 98.33% and then, chronologically if we see
 the record the substratum of the company disappeared after
 the resignation of the petitioner. It is also revealing from the
 record that during the tenure of the petitioner, huge cash flow
 is deposited and practically use of cash flow deposit to be
 looked into substantially the company is used for object for
 which it has not been set up and most material aspect which
 is reflecting from the record is that there is no involvement of
 the public either in the share capital or in any form of asset
 and there is no share subscription issued from the public by
 the company in question. Therefore, practically the company
 appears to have systematically operated as if it is a private
 concern. On the contrary, a public limited company has to act
 more in responsible manner than private limited company. 20. Now in this context if we look at the distinction between
 private and the public limited company, some of the stinking Page 48 of 65 HC-NIC Page 48 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 points of distinction deserve to be considered and the main
 distinct feature is analyzed hereinafter looking to the
 definition of 'private limited company' as defined under Section 3(1)(iii) as also Section 3(1)(iv) , it appears that
 authority has rightly examined the background of the
 company in question. 20.1 The difference between private and public company
 mainly is that a private company is a very suitable device for
 carrying on the business at a small scale level and can start
 with a minimum number of members with a minimum paid up
 capital of Rs.1 lac only. Being a private company, it has an
 element of some restrictions of transferability of shares as
 well as of number of members. It cannot issue prospectus and
 therefore, in view of the position being private company, can
 be exempted from certain operation of law and the term
 private limited is defined under Section 3(1)(b) as stated
 above and therefore, when in respect of privileges and
 exemptions when the private company is making a default in
 complying with those relevant provisions and the company
 then ceases to be entitled to privileges and exemption, the
 whole of the Act then apply as if it were not a private company
 and therefore, on the contrary being a public limited
 company, it has to stringently obey the relevant provisions of
 the law applicable and has to act with full diligence and
 therefore, simply because a word 'private' is missing from the
 certificate of incorporation but when it realizes that in fact,
 the company has been engineered and processed as if it is not
 a public limited company, the principle of lifting of corporate
 veil with more vigour would apply. 21. From the aforesaid circumstance it appears from the
 record that though the company is set up with a minimum
 paid up capital of Rs.5 lacs just to brand it as public limited as
 defined under Section 3(1)(iv) of the Act. But eventually,
 immediately after incorporation and commencement of the
 business, it has partake the character of a private limited
 company as public at all has not been invited to subscribe the
 capital of the company and there appears to be no transaction
 which can safely be said to be of a public limited company and
 therefore, the entire scenario which is reflecting from the
 record indicates that may be that company is set up as a
 public limited company, may be that every trouble has started
 after resignation of petitioner, further may be that Mr.Pratik
 R. Shah has taken all responsibilities on his shoulder by way
 of mere affidavit but, in reality these suspicious circumstances
 have rightly compelled the authority to lift the corporate veil
 to fix the liability and therefore, in a given circumstance, may
 be that to arrive at a conclusion the authority has not been
 able to assign cogent and accurate reasons but, substantially
 if the reasons are substantiating the ultimate conclusion then,
 simply because the authority has not accepted the stand of
 the petitioner, it cannot be said that order suffers from any
 illegality. 22. In this context if we see the object for which Section 179 is provided in the act that case on hand rightly dealt with by
 department in consonance with the objection of Section 179 of
 the Act. 23. All these eventualities which are reflected hereinabove
 further takes us to the position of a director in the company. The directors of the company have got a specific legal position
 in the company. The legal position of the directors may be
 that definitely it cannot be crystallized but, these directors are
 akin to trustees. In case of VS Ramaswamy Iyer V/s.
 Brahmayya and Anr., reported in 1965 LawSuit (Mad)
 121 the Madras High Court, while examining the position of
 Director in the legal sphere, has held that, 'the directors of a
 company are trustees for the company, and with reference to
 their power of applying funds of the company and for misuse
 of the power they could be rendered liable as trustees and on
 their death the cause of action survives even against their
 legal representatives and besides almost all the powers of
 directors, e.g., of allotting shares, making calls, forfeiting
 shares, accepting or rejecting transfers etc. are powers
 exercised in trust and they have been made liable to make
 good money which they have misapplied, upon the same
 footing as if they were trustees of the company and therefore,
 simply because the petitioner has projected that he has not
 put up any signature on any of the papers of the company, he
 is not the signatory of banking transaction, he is not the
 signatory of income-tax department correspondence but,
 simply by asserting this the petitioner cannot done away
 himself with the moral and legal obligation being the director
 of the company whose liability is crystallized by the
 department substantially at the relevant point of time during
 which the petitioner was director. Therefore, at the relevant
 time when the petitioner's holding was to the extent of
 98.33% in the capacity as a director, he cannot disown his
 fiduciary position towards the company and can shunt himself
 away from the liability which has been crystallized. The
 directors have sometimes been called not only as trustees but Page 51 of 65 HC-NIC Page 51 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 commercial trustees as well and therefore, looking to the legal
 position of directors in the company simply because the
 petitioner has remained dormant, cannot evade himself from
 the huge revenue demand which is faced by the company. Section 2(13) of the Companies Act defines word 'director'
 which indicates that any person occupying the position of a
 director by whatever name called. Thus, it is not the name by
 which the person is called but, a position he occupies and the
 functions and duties which he discharges that determine
 whether in fact he is a director or not. Simply because the
 petitioner has remained non-participative, cannot absolve
 himself from the ground reality which is faced by the company
 and therefore, looking to this overall situation of a legal
 position of director, it can thus be seen that simply because
 the word 'private limited' is not mentioned by the company
 claiming to be a director of a public limited company, the
 petitioner cannot shunt himself away from the responsibility
 which is crystallized against the company. There appears to
 be no cogent explanation reflecting about the procedure
 which is adopted by the company of induction of petitioner as
 a director in a short time contrary to norms as also about his
 outgoing from the company and therefore, when the
 petitioner is holding 98.33% in the company cannot just walk
 away by asserting that except bringing capital he had nothing
 to do with the company. This fiduciary position in the
 company cannot be overlooked by the Court as well and
 therefore, it appears that the authority concerned has rightly
 exercised the powers to protect the revenue of the
 department. The aforesaid distinguishable feature between
 private limited company and public limited company would
 lead to a situation where the petitioner cannot be allowed to Page 52 of 65 HC-NIC Page 52 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 take shelter of corporate veil to find himself non-responsible
 to the liability of the department. 24. The aforesaid situations which are prevailing and
 discussed above has taken the Court to another issue of scope
 of Section 179 of the Act which is by now well defined and
 therefore, without dwelling much into that, straightway we
 may refer to the decisions which are cited by the respective
 sides. Learned counsel for the petitioner has made an attempt
 to rely upon one unreported decision delivered by the Division
 Bench of this Court in Special Civil Application No.21206 of
 2015 decided on 8.7.2016 and tried to contend that no liability
 can be fastened upon the director personally under the guise
 of lifting of corporate veil. Now if we peruse the said case, we
 may first see that the petitioner of that case was working as a
 Computer Engineer in one associate company of Mr.Sunil
 Kakkad named as Sai Infosystem (India) Ltd. and later on,
 floated a company in the name of Power Infocontrol and
 Service Pvt. Ltd. Upon persuation of Mr.Sunil Kakkad, he
 agreed to become a nominal director in the year 2007. The
 petitioner had not even the share holding in the company nor
 was drawing the salary from the company and then, later on,
 he ceased to be director in July,2011 and therefore, in this
 case, only the name of the petitioner was utilized without any
 contribution to the company and therefore, in that context and
 in the background of that fact, a decision was taken that there
 was no material to permit the corporate veil to be lifted.
 Whereas, here in this case we feel that there is a specific
 material and the background of fact which necessitated not
 only the authority but even to this Court to pierce the
 corporate veil and therefore, the case cited by the learned Page 53 of 65 HC-NIC Page 53 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 counsel for the petitioner is of no assistance. 25. It is a settled position of law that if there is a slight
 change in the facts, the same would make a world of
 difference in applying principle of law propounded in the
 decision and here, there is a substantial change in the fact
 which does not permit the Court to take assistance of the
 aforesaid decision cited by the learned counsel for the
 petitioner. 26. Relying upon another decision of this Court in case of
 Ram Prakash Singreshwar Rungta & Ors. V/s. Income
 Tax Officer, reported in 370 ITR 641, learned counsel for
 the petitioner contended that order in question is not in
 consonance with the law propounded in this case. In the said
 decision, the Division Bench of this Court has propounded that
 unless and until there is a gross negligence, misfeasance or
 breach of duty on the part of the petitioner, due to which the
 tax dues of the company could not be recovered, no resort to
 be made to Section 179 of the Act against the directors. But
 again we refrain from adopting said proposition basically in
 view of the fact that the fact situation contained in the said
 decision are quite distinct from what is on hand and therefore,
 we are of the opinion that this judgment can have no bearing
 on the central issue involved in the present petition. It
 appears to this Court that there may not be direct allegation
 of misfeasance or gross negligence but, again there is
 certainly dereliction of duty being in a fiduciary position as
 director of a company as at the relevant point of time the
 petitioner was holding 98.33% shares and he just allowed the Page 54 of 65 HC-NIC Page 54 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 company to operate at the sweet will of the directors but, that
 story which has been put up appears to be not sound enough
 to permit the petitioner to evade the huge liability and
 therefore, this case on hand permits the Court not to take
 assistance from the said decision which is recorded and stated
 above. 27. The overall situation if we analyze in its true perspective
 then only one conclusion which can be arrived at is that the
 corporate veil to be lifted and rightly so by the authority. The
 reason itself is explanatory from the above mentioned
 circumstances which are emerging from the record and
 therefore, without much dwelling in it, since it has been
 pointed out either the Court is desisted from reiterating,
 however, in the decision in case of Pravinbhai M. Khemi
 (Supra) in which the Division Bench of this Court has analyzed
 the entire scheme of Section 179 of the Act and has also
 analyzed the well recognized principle of lifting or piercing of
 corporate veil after considering the entire case law on Section
 179 of the Act and therefore, the background of present case
 on hand necessitated this Court to take assistance from few of
 the observations made in the aforesaid decision which are
 reproduced hereinafter. In the said judgment, the Court has
 considered series of decisions on the issue of Section 179 of
 the Act and after considering all the relevant pronouncements
 of the Supreme Court, the Court has held that corporate veil
 can be lifted. Relevant observations based upon series of
 decisions are reproduced hereinafter : As held by series of decisions including in case of
 Canara bank and others (supra), in a case where
 breach of natural justice is noticed, the proceedings
 cannot be terminated for all times to come, but would
 have to be revived from the stage where the defect is
 noticed. 23. Our conclusions therefore, are as follows : 28. On this issue of lifting of corporate veil, relying upon
 series of decisions including the Supreme Court, the Division
 Bench of the Delhi High Court in case of India Waste Energy
 Develoment Ltd. & Anr. V/s. Government of NCT of Delhi
 & Anr., reported in 2003 (114) Company Cases 82 (Delhi)
 has also held that even in a situation where exigency arises, in
 absence of any statutory provision also, the Court is entitled
 to lift the veil and therefore, few observations of the said
 judgment related to the issue in question are quoted
 hereinafter : It is trite that a company, registered under the Companies Act , is a legal personality distinct from its
 members and generally corporate veil may not be lifted
 unless the Legislature so provides but in certain
 exceptional cases, which would embrace those cases
 where the corporate entity is used for tax evasion or to
 circumvent tax obligation, the Court is entitled to lift the
 corporate veil and to pay regard to the economic
 realities behind the legal facade. If the situation so
 demands and for the ends of justice the corporate
 personality itself may be disregarded. It is thus, well
 settled that the corporate veil can be cracked open even
 in the absence of a statutory provision, when it is felt
 that the corporate entity is being used as a device or
 cloak to circumvent tax obligations or as an instrument
 of fraud." 29. The aforesaid proposition of law on the issue of center of
 controversy of applicability of Section 179 of the Act takes us
 to the specific finding arrived at by the authority while
 passing the order in question. The authority, after examining
 the structure of the company in question i.e. M/s.Hirak
 Biotech Limited, has specifically found that the company - accommodation entries in the form of bogus share capital and
 share premium. It was also found specifically by the authority
 that though the summons were issued to other directors of the
 company, none have appeared including Mr.Pratik R. Shah,
 whose shelter is taken by present petitioner and therefore, it
 appears to the authority that on one hand, Mr.Pratik R. Shah
 has not appeared in the office and on the other hand, the
 present petitioner - Mr.Ajay S. Patel has brought an affidavit
 in his favour and therefore, it appears to the authority that
 there is a systematic design which rightly necessitated the
 authority to lift the corporate veil. It is also found by the
 authority that at the relevant point of time, the company was
 of one man show and substantially managed and controlled by
 petitioner and that conclusion is arrived at on the basis of
 materials on record which are indicated specifically that
 substantial cash flow and substantial increase in capital is
 only after induction of petitioner as a director and certificate
 of commencement of business was obtained by the company
 only after petitioner being joined in the company. 30. After analyzing the definition of 'public limited company'
 coupled with definition of 'private limited company' defined
 under Section 3 of the Companies Act, the entire affairs upon
 examination by the authority has found that there appears to
 be of characteristic of Hirak Biotech Limited as defecto
 private limited company and therefore, simply because word
 'private limited' is not mentioned, the petitioner cannot take
 shelter of 'public limited' nomenclature of a company. It is
 also found from the record that authority has not simply
 considered the substantial holding of the petitioner and then, Page 61 of 65 HC-NIC Page 61 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 assumed. The authority has, however, considered the manner
 and method of other directors' conduct of not cooperating,
 manner and method of induction and resignation of petitioner
 as also considered other steps which have failed to recover
 huge crystallized revenue demand and also analyzed gradual
 decrease and evaporation of substratum of a company after
 the petitioner resigned from the company and then, has also
 considered the huge financial crunch upon which the entire
 substratum is evaporated under the steps of securitization.
 Therefore, here it appears that this is not a simple case of
 petitioner coming and going away from the company for
 which he is claiming to be non-responsible at all but, it
 requires detailed examination which has rightly been
 examined by the authority. Therefore, these findings which
 are arrived at by the authority on the basis of record and upon
 basis of explanation tendered by the petitioner, these findings
 are not in a position of dislodge by this Court in exercise of
 extraordinary jurisdiction. The statutory provisions cannot be
 considered in so hyper technical manner which frustrates the
 very object for which it has been included in the statute.
 There are ample circumstances available on record even in
 addition to the findings specifically arrived at by the authority
 which reflect that the authority has rightly resorted to
 provision of Section 179 of the Act. This Court sitting in a writ
 jurisdiction substantially in exercise of extraordinary
 equitable jurisdiction cannot ignore such kind of situation
 prevailing on record and see it helpless just because a defence
 is put up that company in question is a public limited company
 and therefore, no resort to Section 179 of the Act can be
 made. The case of Pravinbhai M. Khemi (Supra) is sufficient
 answer to hold that there is no illegality and/or irregularity of Page 62 of 65 HC-NIC Page 62 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 any nature which is committed by the authority while passing
 the order impugned in the petition. 31. Now in the light of above position if we look at self-
 imposed restrictions which are well recognized in exercise of
 extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court, it would become clear
 that the specific findings which are reflected on record cannot
 be given a go-bye simply because there appears to be one or
 the other reasons no so cogently assigned by the authority.
 The Court has to see the ultimate overall conclusion of the
 authority in consonance with the relevant record and on the
 basis of this, we find that there is no irregularity and/or
 illegality of any nature which warrants this Court to exercise
 of extraordinary jurisdiction to arrive at this self-imposed
 restrictive scope of Articles 226 or 227 of the Constitution of
 India. Ample assistance is provided to this Court by following
 decisions of Apex Court which are sufficient enough to arrive
 at the conclusion which is arrived at by this Court in the
 present judgment. 32. Of course, the Division Bench of this Court, at the time
 of admission of the present petition in April,2016, has
 considered the judgment in case of Ram Prakash
 Singheshwar Rungta & Ors. V/s. Income-tax Officer,
 reported in 370 ITR 641 (Gujarat) as cited by the petitioner.
 But upon analysis in detail of the entire background of the
 facts, we feel that said decision in a straight jacket formula
 cannot be applied as also the decision in case of Radhey
 Mohan Sharma V/s. Deputy Income-tax Officer, reported
 in (2014) 44 Taxmann.com 66 (Gujarat). We reiterate that
 if there is a difference in facts and circumstances, the same Page 63 of 65 HC-NIC Page 63 of 65 Created On Fri Feb 24 02:07:03 IST 2017
 C/SCA/6580/2016 JUDGMENT

 would make a world of difference in apply the principle and
 therefore, on analysis of entire situation of the case on hand,
 we are of the opinion that no case is made out by the
 petitioner. 33. In view of aforesaid circumstances, after considering the
 case from every aspect, we are of the considered opinion that
 there appears to be no infirmity in the order which is
 impugned in the petition and the petition being devoid of
 merits, deserves to be dismissed and accordingly, the same is
 dismissed. Rule is discharged. Interim relief, if any, granted
 earlier stands vacated. There shall be no order as to costs. (AKIL KURESHI, J.)

 (A.J. SHASTRI, J.)
 vipul

 FURTHER ORDER

 After pronouncement of the judgment, a request is made
 by learned counsel for the petitioner for extension of interim
 relief for a reasonable period. Considering the request, we deem it proper to extend
 the interim relief for a period of 4 weeks from today.