SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Myntra fraud 
DATE: 2024-09-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1fg4g2w/myntra_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

I had purchased a perfume 1 million Paco rabanne elixir 100ml on Myntra on 8th of September. The product got delivered on 10th September. I opened the bottle from the product box, to my surprise the bottle I received was fake. 

The bottle didn't match the product labelling as the one on their website. And I had raised a exchange request for the same and shared the images as proof but without receiving any update from the Myntra team they cancelled my query where I had requested for exchange. I raised another complaint and they again denied it without calling me or informing me why my claim is rejected and they rejected with a template message saying we sell 100% original product. 

This was my first shopping experience on Myntra and it was such a pathetic experience. I got this for 7k only to get a fake product. I called the customer care and they said they can't proceed with the request as their investigating team has done their job and ensured that the product they sold to me was genuine. This was ridiculous thing to say to me given I had shared the proof of the image of the product I received and shared it with the investigating team and also I asked the customer care guy to check it with their website. They customer care guy did agree that both products are different but he kept on insisting that their investigating team has said that the product is genuine. Things didn't make any sense as the product I received is fake and the one on the website is different. I even insisted on sharing the video I made of unboxing the perfume but he said the claim will still be rejected . I'd much better experience in returing the product on Amazon and on Flipkart in similar situations.

As you can see the 3rd image is that from Myntra website and compare it with the product I received.

It was a pathetic experience for me. It would be the last time I would buy from Myntra. Please I urge you guys to not buy from Myntra.