Chapter 9 of the Draft Indian Telecommunication Bill, 2022 provides a legal framework for the Government to prescribe measures that ensure the ‘protection of users’. It deals with the issue of spam calls and “unsolicited” promotional messages.

The ministry will accept comments on the draft bill until October 20, 2022. These can be sent to [email protected] .

Definition of “specified messages”

The draft bill defines “specified message” as any message offering, advertising or promoting goods, services, interest in property, business opportunity, employment opportunity or investment opportunity, whether or not:

The definition does not distinguish a “specified message” based on if it’s promoting a fake or a real product. Hence, the provisions will likely apply to messages by companies promoting genuine products as well as scammers trying to dupe people.

Measures for the protection of users

Central Government is allowed to prescribe measures for the protection of users from specified messages under this bill. Such measures may be related to:

Duty of users

The draft bill states that no user shall furnish any false particulars, suppress any material information or impersonate another person while establishing identity for availing telecommunication services in the interest of the “sovereignty, integrity or security of India, friendly relations with foreign states, public order, or preventing incitement to an offence.”

“Users also need protection from calls that they want to avoid. The Bill enables a legal framework for preventing harassment of users from unsolicited calls and messages”an explanatory note released by the Department of Telecommunication (DoT) states.

It goes on to add that “Every telecom user wishes to know who is calling. This will help in preventing cyber-frauds done using telecom services. Therefore, provisions related to identity have been included in the Bill at relevant places.”

Any entity which is granted a license under sub-clause (2) of Section 3, shall unequivocally identify the person to whom it provides services, through a verifiable mode of identification as may be prescribed. – Chapter 3, Indian Draft Telecommunication Bill, 2022

The identity of a person sending a message using telecommunication services shall be available to the user receiving such message, in such form as may be prescribed, unless specified otherwise by the Central Government. – Chapter 3, Draft Indian Telecommunication Bill, 2022

The IFF has flagged concerns that provisions “strip away the user’s right to stay anonymous and puts an obligation on service providers to identify”, with complete confidence, every user.

“Such a broad and excessive requirement, in the absence of a data protection law, fails to prioritise user safety and security,” read the note publised by the IFF.

Although not mentioned in the draft bill, this comment seems to be in line with reports suggesting that TRAI is working on a Truecaller-like service which will flash caller’s name on the phone screen as per their KYC records .

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event