Yahoo India has released its annual ‘ Year In Review ‘ roundup which lists the biggest trends it has witnessed in 2013. The company says this list was formulated based on millions of searches users did on Yahoo and what users read, recommended and shared on the Yahoo network. The trends:

Most Searched Personalities of 2013

Quite similar to Google’s Zeitgeist 2013 , Bollywood celebrities dominate the list of most searched personalities on Yahoo India for 2013, representing nine of the top ten positions in the list with the lone exception being Narendra Modi who was ranked tenth.

Sunny Leone retained her top spot followed by Deepika Padukone and Katrina Kaif. Others in the list were Poonam Pandey, Priyanka Chopra, Anushka Sharma, Sherlyn Chopra, Aishwarya Rai and Kareena Kapoor.

Newsmakers of the Year 2013

In terms of newsmakers of the year, BJP prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi was the top newsmaker, followed by Aam Aadmi Party founder Arvind Kejriwal and Indian Youth Congress chairperson Rahul Gandhi. Other politicians who made it to the list were LK Advani (seventh place) and Lalu Prasad Yadav (tenth place).

Others in the list include Sachin Tendulkar (fourth place), Tarun Tejpal (fifth), Asaram Bapu (sixth), scientist CNR Rao (eighth) and the RBI governor Raghuram Rajan (ninth).

Top Finance Newsmakers

Raghuram Rajan who took over as the RBI Governor in September 2013 was the top finance newsmaker on Yahoo India for 2013, followed by MCX stock exchange founder Jignesh Shah who recently resigned from the company board after NSEL scam and Arundhati Bhattacharya who took as the first woman chairperson of India’s largest bank State Bank of India. ( Read : Encrypted SMS? What RBI Gov Raghuram Rajan Should Really Do About Mobile Payments )

Others mentioned are Phaneesh Murthy, Reliance Industries chairman & managing director Mukesh Ambani, Aditya Birla group’s chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla, ICICI Bank MD & CEO Chanda Kochhar, Infosys co-founder NR Narayana Murthy who returned as the executive chairman and additional director in June 2013 and Fairfax Financial Holdings founder Prem Watsa who signed an intent agreement to buy out BlackBerry for $4.7Bn and later invested $1 billion in BlackBerry. UB Group chairman and parliament member Vijay Mallya was ranked tenth in the list.

Top 10 Financial events : Sensex hitting all-time highs and all-time lows during the year was the top financial event for the year according to Yahoo. This was followed by the Bharti-Walmart JV split and vegetables like onion, tomato & salt prices touching Rs 100.

Other events mentioned are the Budget 2013, fuel price changes & oil minister Veerappa Moily’s austerity measures, the Bengal Ponzi scheme, the NSEL crisis , Indian government allowing 49% FDI in the aviation sector but receiving only few takers and Narayana Murthy’s return to Infosys along with a mass exodus at the company.

Top Cricketers

Virat Kohli was the top cricketer of 2013 on Yahoo India, followed by Rohit Sharma and R Ashwin. Other Indian cricketers who made it to the list were Shikhar Dhawan (fourth place) and Ravindra Jadeja (eight place).

The non-Indian cricketers in the list were Pakistan’s Misbah-ul-Haq (fifth place) & Saeed Ajma (seventh place), England’s Ian Bell (sixth place), and South Africa’s Dale Steyn (ninth place) and AB de Villiers (tenth place).

Top cricketing moments : Sachin’s retirement last month was the top cricketing moment for the year, followed by England retaining the Ashes trophy earlier in August 2013 and Mumbai India’s wins in the Indian Premier League (IPL).

Others mentioned in the list are IPL spot fixing, Rahul Dravid’s retirement, Zimbabwe winning a test match against Pakistan (their first test win since 2001), Shivnaraine Chanderpaul’s 150th test, Australia winning the Women’s world cup, Afghanistan qualifying for the ICC World Cup 2015, and India winning the 2013 Champion’s trophy.

Top Bollywood moments of 2013

Indian Cinema crossing 100 years was the top Bollywood moment of 2013, followed by Kamal Hassan’s Viswaroopam and the Supreme Court’s verdict on Sanjay Dutt and his subsequent arrest.

Other moments mentioned are Ranbir and Deepika Padukone coming together for Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani, Jiah Khan’s suicide, Pran’s death, Chennai Express, Manna Dey’s death and Deepika Padukone’s back-to-back Bollywood hits during the year. Surprisingly Salman Khan’s candid interview on Karan Johar’s talk show ‘Koffee with Karan’ earlier this month has also found a mention on the list on the tenth place.

Top travel destinations

Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer was the top travel destination for the year followed by Kerala’s Bekal (second place) and Wayanad (third place).

Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor was ranked fourth while the same state’s Tranquebar (Tharangambadi) was ranked fifth. Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang came in sixth while Karnataka’s Coorg was seventh.

Andaman & Nicobar Island’s Andamans took the eight spot while Kerala’s Varkala was placed ninth and Jammu & Kashmir’s Kashmir was ranked tenth.

Top 10 cars in 2013

Honda Amaze was the top car on Yahoo for 2013, followed by Ford EcoSport and Hyundai GRAND i10. Others mentioned in the list include Volkswagen Polo GT 1.2 TSI, Tata Vista D90, Skoda Octavia, Mercedes-Benz A Class, Nissan Terrano, New Honda CR-V and Mercedes-Benz E63 AMG.

Notable news events: Yahoo India also mentioned a list of notable events for the year which include ISRO’s Mars Mission, Cyclone Phailin, death penalty to the Delhi gang rape convicts, the Tehelka crisis, creation of Telangana, Uttarkhand floods, Aam aadmi party’s performance, Patna blasts and assembly elections.

Top Health trends

Healthy food like Whole grains, veggies, seasonal fruits were the top health trend on Yahoo for the year, followed by complex carbohydrates like Oats, whole grains, quinoa and High protein diets.

Others mentioned are Organic foods, Pop up shops like Sunday flea markets & recycled kitsch shops, Mobile health apps, High intensity interval training, a la carte fitness, breakfast and tea.

Top Fashion trends

Palazzo Pants was the top fashion trend for the year, while neon color trend secured the second spot and short crop hair trend was ranked third.

Other trends include handlebar mustache, sarees, plaids, nail art, nerdy eye frames and quirky hair bands. Yahoo also mentioned that Deepika Padukone was Yahoo Lifestyle’s fashionista of the year while the fashion designer Masaba Gupta was the fashion design icon for the year.

Other Trends for 2013 :

– Twitter India 2013 Trends: Sachin, Afzal Guru, Modi, Bigg Boss 7 & Others – Google Zeitgeist 2013: WhatsApp Top Searched Mobile App, Chennai Express, Temple Run, Sunny Leone – Airtel Mobitude 2013: Mobile TV Up 400%, Google Tops, Dabangg 2, Lenny Kravitz – YouTube Rewind: Top Trending Videos & Music Videos For India In 2013 – Facebook India 2013 Trends: Narendra Modi Is Most Talked About Topic; Top Places – Dove’s Ad Was Most Viewed Ad On YouTube India In 2013 – Bing India Trends 2013: Top Persons, Social Sites, Movies, Songs, Travel Places & Others

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event