Vide this order, I shall decide the present
revision petition U/S 397 read with Section 399 Cr.PC
against order dated 14.11.2019 passed by Sh. Abhilash
Malhotra,Ld. MM­07 (Central), Delhi dismissing the

C. R. No.82/2020 page 1
 criminal complaint filed by the petitioner under Section
200 CrPC. 1. Ld. Counsel for the Petitioner submitted that
as per law, the Prosecutors appointed in the Directorate of
Prosecution are deputed to conduct criminal cases on
behalf of the State in subordinate courts and unlike
employees of other Government Departments, the
prosecuting officers are not transferred to any other
Department except to Food Safety Department and Police
Training College. That the Code of Criminal Procedure ,
1973 makes provision regarding the works/duties of
prosecuting officers, and as per Section 24 of Cr.P.C.,
Central Govt. or the State Government may in
consultation with the High Court, appoint a Public
Prosecutor and may also appoint one or more Addl. Public
Prosecutor for conducting in such Court any prosecution,
appeal or other proceeding on behalf of Central Govt. or
State Govt. as the case may be. That Section 25 of Cr. P.C.
provides that the State Govt. shall appoint in every
district one or more Assistant Public Prosecutor for
conducting prosecutions in the Courts of Magistrates. C. R. No.82/2020 page 2
 That the Prosecuting Officer of Directorate of Prosecution
cannot be posted/transferred to any other departments
except to Food Safety Department and Police Training
College. That the respondent has no power or any
authority to make inter­department posting/transfer of
Prosecuting Officer of Directorate of Prosecution. That
despite a very clear law on this point, 12 Prosecuting
Officers have been illegally transferred/posted to Home
Department, Law Ministry, Delhi Women Commission,
SIT, Chief Minister's Office by the Director of Prosecution
in blatant disregard of the mandates of the legislation and
the authority of law. That due to such arbitrary and
illegal posting of Prosecuting Officers to other
departments, there has been shortage of Prosecuting
Officers as against the number of Criminal Courts in
Delhi District Courts and thereby administration of
criminal justice is suffering. That the opposite party has
misused his official position and caused loss to the
Department by making transfer/posting of Prosecuting
Officers to other Departments without any valid authority
of law in a very crucial time when there is shortage of the

C. R. No.82/2020 page 3
 available prosecutors as against the number of Criminal
Courts in Delhi, and has disobeyed the direction of law so
as to cause injury to the Directorate of Prosecution and
hence committed offences punishable U/S 166/409 IPC r/w Section 44 of IPC. That the opposite party, being
entrusted with the power to transfer prosecuting officers
of the Department of Prosecution, is dishonestly
using/disposing of that power in violation of direction of
law prescribing the mode in which such trust is to be
discharged by making inter­department transfer/posting
where there is no sanctioned post of prosecuting officers,
thereby offending Section 409 of IPC. That the 'Aadhar
Enabled Biometric Attendance System' has been procured
in the Directorate of Prosecution, Govt. of NCT of Delhi,
in clear contravention of the DoPT Notification No.
110013/9/2014­ Estt. A­III dated 22.06.2015 as the thrust
of the said notification is to replace the manual system of
marking of attendance. That the Prosecuting Officer are
Gazetted Officers and that there is no manual system of
attendance register maintained for them. Hence, there is
no question at all to replace the manual system of

C. R. No.82/2020 page 4
 attendance of Prosecuting Officers. That the duties of
Prosecuting Officers are inside the Court to assist the
Court in the administration of justice and their work is
under the close scrutiny of the concerned Courts where
they are posted. The attendance/appearance is marked by
the Court itself throughout the proceedings of the cases
vide daily order sheets of the Court. Therefore,
installation of another system i.e. Aadhar Enabled
Biometric Attendance System of marking
attendance/appearance of Prosecuting Officers in violation
of said DoPT Notification is nothing but the misuse of the
State funds by the opposite party. That the Ld. MM in
the impugned order has observed that the biometric
machine were purchased for the purpose of attendance of
prosecuting officers and were returned to the vendor. The
same fact has been exposed by the revisionist vide RTI
reply dated 27.09.2019. That the biometric machines in
question were procured vide GeM Sanction No.
GEMS87191­17 as per the official position during the
tenure of Sh. Panjak Sanghi. The Government e­
Marketplace Special Purpose Vehicle (GeM SPV) came

C. R. No.82/2020 page 5
 into existence as Private Limited Company under the
Ministry of Commerce incorporated under the Companies
Act, 2013 to develop, manage and maintain the GeM
Platform. The GeM platform provides an online portal for
optimization of Public Expenditure and to achieve the
same objective, the Ministry of Finance Department of
Expenditure had added the Rule 149 in the General
Financial Rules, 2017. That one basic exercise required
before any Goods or Services is procured by any
Government Entity is a detailed assessment as to needs
and feasibility of the Goods or Services being procured.
Procuring authorities have responsibility and
accountability to ensure professionalism, economy,
efficiency, effectiveness and integrity in the procurement
process. They must avoid wasteful, dilatory and improper
practices. That it is the duty of the controlling authority
which includes the Head of the Department to ensure that
the expenditure is incurred in public interest. That the
Director of Prosecution, Pankaj Sanghi broke all
guidelines as to financial propriety in the present case and
has made improper use of information available with him. C. R. No.82/2020 page 6
 The biometric machines were supposed to be procured
only to replace the manual system of attendance. That
infact he acted with criminal negligence with respect to
pubic finances at all the stages of procurement of Bio­
metric machines. The installation of bio­metric machines
is not in consonance with the Section 7 of the Aadhar Act.
The mandatory implementation of Aadhar enabled bio­
metric attendance system directly contravenes the recent
decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Justice K.
S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India & Ors. (2019) 1 SCC 1.
In view of this judgment, the Aadhar enabled bio­metric
attendance system is entirely outside the scope of which
Adhar based authentication may be used. That thus not
a case of simple negligence was not simple negligence,
rather the procurement process was carried out with
dishonest intention for an illegitimate object. That the
Director of Prosecution, Pankaj Sanghi has till date not
reported any loss to the government to cover up his
misadventure of procuring Biometric Machines in
violations of the Constitutional Scheme and the various
Financial Rules and Regulations. That it remains to

C. R. No.82/2020 page 7
 answered as to why did the Director of Prosecution,
Pankaj Sanghi procure the Biometric Machines in
question by misrepresenting and providing wrong
information, and what was his interest in this
procurement? This is fraud upon the Constitution itself
that suggests prima facie dishonest intention in the
procurement process. That though the opposite party may
be a public servant within the meaning of Section 21 of
IPC but sanction under Section 197 CrPC is not required
in view of the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in
State of Kerala v. V. Padmanadha Nair 1999 (3) SCR 864. Section 197 (1) of the Code is part of the law of
procedure and cannot be construed so as to defeat a
provision of the substantive law in Section 166 of the IPC.
That it is no part of an official duty to commit an offence,
and never can be. That the test is whether the public
sevant can reasonably be said to have committed the
offence by virtue of his office. The Director of Prosecution,
Pankaj Sanghi being from law background is endowed
with greater responsibility to act in accordance with the
laws of the land. He has deliberately shown disregard to

C. R. No.82/2020 page 8
 the Grundnorm by violating the constitutional scheme
which is the root of all law. He is not at all sensitized
towards the greater needs of a criminal justice system
which is already under heavy pressure of delivery to the
masses timely justice, and has deliberately with criminal
intent used public finances in violation of the
constitutional scheme and the various financial
regulations / law which in itself is a fraud upon the Indian
Constitution. Petitioner has reproduced extracts from
several judicial pronouncements in the written
submissions, however, the same were no relied in the
course of arguments nor submitted. Petitioner has filed
judgment in Delhi Prosecutors Welfare Association
(Regd.) v. Rajiv Mehrishi & Anr. Cont . CAS (C ) 224/2016. 2. Written submissions were filed on behalf of the
respondent. It is contended for the respondent that the
respondent was admittedly a Public Servant and was
discharging his public functions, in official course of his
duties, still the petitioner has chosen to file the
complaint / Revision against the respondent in his
personal capacity. That respondent was discharging his

C. R. No.82/2020 page 9
 public function as public servant, hence, Sanction under Section 197 CrPC of Competent Authority is a pre
requisite, but no such sanction has been obtained by the
petitioner, without which no prosecution can be initiated.
That the petitioner deliberately with ulterior motive has
not impleaded the State and Delhi Government as
necessary party. That petition deserves to be dismissed
as there is no mention as to how the State funds are
misused or power has been misused by the respondent,
the then Director of Prosecution, GNCT and as such the
complaint was rightly dismissed by the Ld Trial Court.
That no offence is made out as the respondent has acted
in discharge of his official duty, to obey and abide the
orders of the Competent / Cadre Controlling Authority,
which were not at all against the service norms. The
basic grievance or allegations made by the complainant /
petitioner against respondent is two folds firstly transfer
of 12 prosecuting officers to other Delhi Government
departments i.e. Home and Law Department, Govt of
NCT of Delhi, Commission of Women, Chief Minister
Grievance Redressal Cell and Special Investigation Team

C. R. No.82/2020 page 10
 etc. That this issue was also raised by the petitioner
before Ld. Hon'ble High Court of D elhi vide W. P. (C)
No.5015/2019 titled as Brij Mohan Sehgal v. Govt. of NCT
of Delhi and the same was dismissed 10.05.2019. That
the complaint is an abuse of process of law and filed mala
fide. That the son of the Complainant/Revisionist Shri Brij
Mohan Sehgal was posted as Assistant Public Prosecutor,
in the Directorate of Prosecution, Government of NCT
Delhi at Rohini Courts. He got married with another
Assistant Public Prosecutor of Directorate of Prosecution,
Government of NCT Delhi, who was posted at
Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. After few months, a
matrimonial dispute arose between them and the
daughter in law of petitioner, made a representation to
Principal Secretary(Home), GNCT Delhi, regarding
demand of Dowry, mental and physical harassment,
misbehaviour and misconduct by her husband, the
Assistant Public Prosecutor, son of the petitioner and her
in­laws. The said representation was sent to the
Directorate of Prosecution by Home Department for
taking departmental action against the officer, the son of

C. R. No.82/2020 page 11
 the petitioner. The matter was marked to a Chief
Prosecutor for enquiry. But none of the party joined the
enquiry on one pretext or the other. That the petitioner
also made false, frivolous and baseless allegations against
the enquiry officer therefore, on the request of said
enquiry officer, the matter was marked to another enquiry
officer, who tried to reconcile the dispute between the
parties but no fruitful result could be achieved. That the
daughter in law of petitioner also requested the Principal
Secretary (Home) to change the enquiry officer as she was
not satisfied with the second enquiry officer, and desired
an independent enquiry to be conducted by Home
Department at its end. The said representation was
rejected by Home Department. Accordingly, the daughter
in law of petitioner was informed and her
complaint/representation was sent to police for further
necessary action at their end as per directions of Home
Department. Then the vigilance officer of the Directorate
of Prosecution was appointed as enquiry officer. That the
petitioner and his son made several false frivolous and
fake complaints against the different officers of the

C. R. No.82/2020 page 12
 Directorate of Prosecution Le. the First Appellate
Authority, under RTI Act , the Chief Prosecutor (first
Enquiry officer) and Head of office etc. who were
concerned with the enquiry against son of the
Revisionist/Complainant, while using derogatory language
against them which were dealt with by Home
Department, GNCT Delhi and strict orders were passed
by it against the son of the petitioner, an APP. That Home
Department asked the Directorate of Prosecution to put
up a proposal for charge sheeting the son of the
Revisionist, APP in view of above misconduct,
misbehaviour, insubordination and indiscipline and
sought a draft Charge Sheet from Directorate of
Prosecution accordingly it was prepared and sent to Home
Department. That when the Revisionist Shri Brij Mohan
Sehgal had exhausted his energy by making false and
frivolous complaints against each and every officer of the
Directorate of Prosecution, who were concerned with the
enquiry of complaint of her daughter in law, and when he
failed to achieve any favourable result, he played this
mischief/tactics by filing this false, frivolous and un called

C. R. No.82/2020 page 13
 for complaint in the court of Learned Metropolitan
Magistrate, Tis Hazari Courts against Respondent,
Pankaj Sanghi, to threaten and pressurise and the other
officers of the Directorate of Prosecution so that no one
can raise voice against his son or against him for their
illegal acts and conduct. That the Revisionist had filed the
false and frivolous complaint against Respondent because
the son of the Revisionist, APP was transferred to Police
Training College, Jharoda Kalan by the Respondent Shri
Pankaj Sanghi, the then Director of Prosecution. That the
petitioner as then Director of Prosecution, was performing
his public functions under the directions of the Cadre
Controlling Authority i.e. the Home Department, GNCT
Delhi. That the petitioner filed a false, frivolous, baseless
and uncalled for complaint in the court of the
Metropolitan Magistrate, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi to
torture, harass, pressurise and defame the Respondent so
that the Respondent may call back the son of
Complainant/Revisionist, APP to Directorate of
Prosecution. That all the above 12 Prosecuting Officers
were sent in diverting capacity to the above mentioned

C. R. No.82/2020 page 14
 departments by the orders of Competent Authority, Le.
Home Department, GNCT Delhi at different point of
times, even by predecessor Directors, before the
promotion of the Respondent as Director of Prosecution
and after his retirement, the successor Director of
Prosecution are still passing such orders to comply with
the directions/orders of Higher/Competent Authority as
mentioned above to perform legal work as per
requirements / requisitions/directions received from
different authorities of Government of NCT of Delhi. That
in the month of February 2017, twelve AEBAS were
ordered to be purchased through Government E­
marketing place, as the government had ordered to make
all purchases from there, by following all requisite
procedure and norms prescribed by the government. On
30.07.2019 a letter was received by the Directorate of
Prosecution from the supplier company who supplied the
AEBAS machines to the Directorate of Prosecution, to
process the payment or release the Machines against
above GEM order No. GEMS87191­77 dated 12.12.2017.
The Supplier was apprised about the above mentioned

C. R. No.82/2020 page 15
 clarification sought from Home Department, no payment
was made to him and in these circumstances the AEBAS
Machines were returned to the supplier and an
information to this effect was sent to Special Secretary
(Home), by the then Director of Prosecution, Sh. S. C.
Sharma, Thus no financial transaction was done. The
respondent had already retired from services on
31.07.2019. When no financial transaction was done then
how any alleged offence is committed. The respondent
has filed the copy of the decision in W. P. (C) No.
5015/2019 & CM APPL.22234/2014 titled as Brij Mohan

Sehgal v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi decided by Hon'ble

High Court of Delhi on 10.05.2019; D. Devaraja v. Owais Sabber Hussain Crl. Appeal No. 458/2020

decided by Hon'ble Apex Court on 18.06.2020; State of

Punjab v. Labh Singh Crl . Appeal no. 2168 of 2010

decided by Hon'ble Apex Court on 17.12.2014; P. K.

Chaudhary v. Commander , 48 BRTF (GREF) decided

by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India Appeal (Crl.) No.480 of

2008; Krishna Lal Chawla & Ors. v. State of UP &

C. R. No.82/2020 page 16
 Anr decided by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India on

08.03.2021. Ld. Addl. PP submitted that the revision
petition deserves to be dismissed with cost and that the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Kishore Samrite v. State of MP Review Petition (Criminal) no. 732/2013 for

frivolous revision has imposed cost of Rs.5 lac on the
petitioner. 3. I have heard the Ld. Counsel for the petitioner
and perused the written submissions and the judgments
filed alongwith. 4. On the query of the Court, as to what is the
particular Criminal act or omission, inviting what nature
of penal consequences, Ld. Counsel for petitioner
submitted that the respondent had transferred certain
Public Prosecutors to certain departments in violation of
Law and then when it is put to Ld. Counsel as to in
violation of which law, ld. Counsel submitted that the act
impugned is in contravention of Sections 24 and 25 of the
CrPC. Section 24 CrPC makes provision for appointment
of Public Prosecutors for every High Court and in any

C. R. No.82/2020 page 17
 District. Section 24 CrPC is just an enabling provision,
neither any offence is created nor any punishment is
prescribed thereunder. The provision does not make any
act or omission punishable in any manner. Along same
lines, Section 25 calls for the appointment in every
District of one or more Assistant Public Prosecutors for
conducting prosecution in the court of Magistrates. 5. From the contents of complainant, it emerges
that respondent was holding the post of Director of
Prosecution, GNCT of Delhi, working in such capacity of
the Head of the Department since June, 2015. As per RTI
replies obtained at the instance of the petitioner dated
24.11.2018 by the Directorate of Prosecution, GNCT of
Delhi, 12 prosecution officers have been transferred /
posted as follows :­ 1. Special Investigation Team - 2; 2. Delhi Commission for Women - 1; 3. Home Department (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) ­4; 4. Chief Ministry Grievance Redressal Cell - 2; 5. Delhi Law Ministry - 3. C. R. No.82/2020 page 18
 The petitioner / complainant is aggrieved against the
above mentioned 12 transfers. This act of transfer of 12
prosecuting officers to the said departments is challenged
as without authority, infringing Section 24 and 25 CrPC,
causing injury to the Directorate of Prosecution
occasioned from a consequential scarcity of the public
prosecutors in Court resulting in delays and inefficiency
in the criminal justice delivery system for which the
respondent is alleged to have committed offences
punishable under Section 166 / 409 / 406 IPC. 6. Whoever being public servant knowingly
disobeys the directions of the laws as to the way in which
he is to conduct himself as such public servant with the
intention to cause or knowing that he is thereby likely to
cause injury to any person, is rendered liable for
punishment under Section 166 IPC. The "person" as per
the complainant here is the Directorate of Prosecution /
the entire criminal justice dispensation system. I am
afraid such is not the purport of law. The exercise of the
powers of transfers and posting vested in the
Administrative Head of any department is primarily and

C. R. No.82/2020 page 19
 exclusively an administrative issue. Even if the exercise
of such powers on administrative side results in any
insufficiency, scarcity and shortage of APP in the Courts,
by no stretch of imagination by virtue of incorporation of Section 24 or 25 of CrPC criminal culpability would entail
such action punishable under Section 166 IPC. Moreover,
the transfers / postings by the competent authority in any
establishments in exercise of administrative function is an
act directly related to the office held and the discharge of
official duties of such Office in the ordinary course and for
rendering the officials accountable in any manner for such
an act in the discharge of the official duties sanction of the
competent authority, is a pre­requisite. 7. Culpability is also sought to be imputed for
such acts of transfers / postings, under Section 405 IPC. Section 405 IPC defines the offence of Criminal
Breach of trust in the following words:­
 "Criminal breach of trust: Whoever,
 being in any manner entrusted with
 property, or with any dominion over
 property, dishonestly misappropriates or
 converts to his own use that property, or
 dishonestly uses or disposes of that

C. R. No.82/2020 page 20
 property in violation of any direction
 of law prescribing the mode in which
 such trust is to be discharged, or of
 any legal contract, express or implied,
 which he has made touching the
 discharge of such trust, or willfully suffers
 any other person so to do, commits
 "criminal breach of trust". It is an offence against property, Public
Prosecutors under the Directorate of Prosecution by no
manner of construction and interpretation can be accepted
to be "property" entrusted in the dominion of the
Directorate of Prosecution. The reliance on directions
passed by Hon'ble the High Court of Delhi in the matter
reported as Delhi Prosecutors' Welfare Association

(Regd.) v. Rajiv Mehrishi & Anr. (CONT . CAS (C)

224/2016) and W. P. (Crl.) 1549/2009 titled as Court on

its own Motion v State dated 11.12.2017 is also

misplaced, despite taking note of the shortage of available
prosecutors as against number of criminal courts in Delhi,
no penal consequences have been ordained for transfer of
public prosecutors to other departments besides Courts of
law. Moreover, the respondent has filed on record copy of

C. R. No.82/2020 page 21
 order dated 10.05.2019 passed in W. P. (C) No. 5015/2019

& CM APPL.22234/2014 titled as Brij Mohan Sehgal v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi,

challenging the same transfers / postings which came to
be dismissed vide the following order:­
 "1. Petitioner has filed this petition
 in public interest invoking the writ
 jurisdiction of this Court and the prayer
 made in the writ petition reads as under:­
 "a) Issue an appropriate writ /
 order/direction in the nature of
 mandamus commanding the respondent
 to pass necessary orders to withdraw the
 prosecutors illegally transferred / posted
 to other departments i.e. Home
 Department (Govt. of NCT of Delhi), Delhi
 Law Ministry, Delhi Commission for
 Women, Chief Minister Grievance
 Redressal Cell and Special Investigation
 Team etc. and make their posting in
 criminal courts; b) Issue an appropriate
 writ/order/directions commanding the
 Respondent to take necessary action
 against erring officials who made such
 arbitrary and illegal transfer / posting of
 prosecuting officers to other departments; c) Pass such further
 orders/directions which this Hon'ble
 Court deem fit and proper in the facts and
 circumstances of the case and also in the
 interest of justice, and

C. R. No.82/2020 page 22 d) Grant costs of this petition." 2. The grievance raised by the
 petitioner in the writ petition pertains to
 transfer of Public Prosecutors to various
 other Departments of the Government and
 the petitioner wants that the transfer and
 posting of prosecuting officers to other
 Department should be cancelled. 3. The matter pertains to the transfer
 of officials, namely public prosecutors to
 various Departments of the Government
 and in a Public Interest Litigation merely
 on account of there being shortage of
 Public Prosecutors, we see no reason to
 make any indulgence into the matter. 4. The writ petition stands dismissed."
 The petitioner having remained unsuccessful in
the challenge to the transfer / posting has subsequently
questioned those very transfers and postings as a
criminal act on the part of the respondent. 8. The allegations are too far­fetched, bordering on
the ludicrous if not downright ridiculous in themselves.
Transfers and postings even if made arbitrarily by the
Competent Authority would attract no criminal
consequences either under Section 166 or under Section
405 / 409 IPC. What is arbitrary is not necessarily a
criminal offence punishable under the IPC . It is only
what is made punishable under the Code that is defined

C. R. No.82/2020 page 23
 as an offence and no person can be held liable for any act
or omission except in accordance with law. 9. It is further alleged against the respondent that
he had made procurement of Aadhar Enabled Biometric
Attendance System for marking attendance of the Public
Prosecutors unnecessarily thereby entailing pecuniary
loss to the Directorate of Prosecution. It is the own case of
the complainant that the procurement is made as per
GFR Rules through GeM portal. No financial
irregularities in the procurement process are outlined.
Even if the policy decision was unnecessary, ending in
wasteful expenditure, in the absences of any allegations of
financial irregularities the basic ingredients essential to
constitute the offence under section 405 / 409 IPC are not
made out. It has not been disputed that following the
procurement process that concluded in the year 2017, on
the representation of the vendor, the machines were
returned to the vendor and no payment was made in
consideration thereof. 10. There is no pecuniary loss occasioned from the
procurement process which subsequently came to be

C. R. No.82/2020 page 24
 shelved. It is not that the machines so procured were
misappropriated by the respondent by abusing his official
capacity or converted to his own use in any manner
whatsoever. There is absolutely no ground for an
accusation under Section 405 / 409 IPC against the
respondent on the basis of the procurement process
initiated in implementation of a policy decision even if the
same was absolutely unnecessary. Bad policy decisions do
not constitute criminal offence in themselves. The
necessity of any particular policy decision, the propriety of
any administrative decision, their implementation in the
discharge of official functions by the competent authority
cannot be assessed and gone into by a criminal Court
taking cognizance for commission of offences alleged
under Section 405 / 409 IPC under Section 200 CrPC
without allegations of financial irregularities, actual
pecuniary loss and gain, not merely some imaginary and
remote indirect loss. 11. The facts set forth therefore, do not constitute any
criminal offence of which the Ld. Magistrate could have take
cognizance in terms of Section 190 (1) (a) CrPC. The Ld.

C. R. No.82/2020 page 25
 Magistrate was required to have examined the complainant
under Section 200 and to have commenced proceedings
under chapter XV only where the Magistrate had proceeded
to take cognizance of an offence. Where the facts set out in
the complaint itself do not constitute any such offence, the
Magistrate is not called upon to follow the procedure under
chapter XV and examine the complainant under Section 200. The complaint of the petitioner discloses no offence
from the facts set out under the complaint, there was
nothing for the Magistrate to take cognizance of in
accordance with Section 190 (1) (a) CrPC and hence there
arose no occasion for the Ld. Magistrate to record the
statement of the complainant under Section 200 Cr.PC and
for such reasons, I find no error, irregularity, illegality and
infirmity in the order impugned. 12. Present Revision Petition accordingly is
dismissed. TCR be sent back alongwith copy of this order. 13. Revision Petition be consigned to Record Room.
Announced in the open Court
on this 13th day of April, 2022
 (Neelofer Abida Perveen)
 Additional Sessions Judge : (Central)
 Tis Hazari Court:Delhi

C. R. No.82/2020 page 26