Per: George George K., J.M.

 This appeal at the instance of the assessee is directed against the final
assessment order dated 30.10.2017 passed under Section 143(3) r.w.s. 147 &
144C(5) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the Act). The relevant assessment year
is 2007-08. 2. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee, Google Ireland Limited
(herein after referred as the assessee or GIL) is a foreign company having its
registered office at Ireland. The assessee is involved in the business of sale of 2 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. online advertisement space to Google India Pvt. Ltd. (GIPL) under
distribution agreement dated 12.12.2005. Further the assessee also sells
advertisement spaces to other customers in India. The assessee derives more
than 97% of its total revenue from advertisement services through its
AdWords program worldwide. The AdWords program is used by various
business houses to promote their products and services via targeted
advertising. The AO on verification of financial statement of GIPL noticed
that it had credited an amount of Rs.42,57,53,347/- to the account of the
assessee during the relevant assessment year without deducting tax at source
under Section 195 of the Act. Further it was noticed by the AO that GIL has
also not obtained NIL deduction certificate on the sum received/payable to it.
The AO in the hands of GIPL (Payer) had held that the payments made to the
assessee are covered under Section 9 of the Act and also under the provisions
of DTAA. The AO in the case of GIPL (Payer) passed orders under Sections
201 & 201(1A) of the Act in respect of payments made to the assessee to the
tune of Rs.42,51,53,437/-. 3. Based on the orders passed under Section 201 & 201(1A) of the Act in
case of GIPL (Payer) notice under Section 148 of the Act was issued to the
assessee on 29.03.2014. The assessee filed Nil return of income on 14.08.2014
pursuant to the notice issued under Section 148 of the Act and sought for the
reasons recorded for reopening of the assessment under Section 148 of the
Act. In response to the said letter the AO provided reasons recorded for
reopening of the assessment for AY 2007-08 vide letter dated 25.07.2015. On
receipt of the reasons recorded for reopening the assessment, the assessee
raised its objections on 16.09.2015. The objections were rejected by the AO
vide his letter dated 04.01.2016. During the course of assessment proceedings
the matter was referred to the Transfer Pricing Officer (TPO) and the TPO
after considering the submissions passed an order dated 20.10.2016 3 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. determining the transactions between GIL and GIPL to be at arm's length.
Thereafter the AO issued a draft assessment order proposing to assess the total
income of the assessee at Rs.93,66,27,879/-. The AO considered the amount
received/receivable by the assessee towards sale of advertisement space
amounting to Rs.42,57,53,347/- from GIPL and also a sum of
Rs.51,08,74,532/- from other Indian customers as 'royalty' under the Act and
the DTAA. 4. Aggrieved by the draft assessment order the assessee filed objections
before the Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP). The DRP vide its directions dated
27.09.2017 rejected all the objections of the assessee. Pursuant to the DPR
directions, the impugned final assessment order dated 30.10.2017 was passed.
The computation of income and tax thereon as per the final assessment order
are as under: - taxability of payment received by the assessee on sale of online advertisement
space directly from advertisers in India, the learned A.R. submitted that the
issue is covered in favour of the assessee by the following coordinate bench
orders of the Tribunal: - (emphasis supplied)
II. RELIANCE BY Ld. AR ON THE APPEALS DECIDE BY THE HON'BLE
 ITAT BANGALORE IN THE CASE OF GOOGLE INDIA PVT. LTD. - NOT
 APPLICABLE TO THE INSTANT APPEAL AS "NOT COVERED" BY
 DECISION OF HON'BLE SUPREME COURT IN THE CASE OF
 "ENGINEERING ANALYSIS CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE PVT. LTD."
 (2021) 432 ITR 471 (SC) 1. During the course of hearing the main argument presented by the Ld. AR
 that the instant appeal is squarely covered by the decision rendered by the
 Hon'ble ITAT Bangalore in the case of Google India Pvt. Ltd. in IT(TP)A No.
 1513,1514,1515, 1516/B/2013 dated 19.10.2022 and IT(IT)A No.
 1190,1295/B/2014 & IT(IT)A No. 97/B/2019 & IT(IT)A No. 949& 950/B/2017
 dated 15.12.2022. Firstly, these decisions rendered by the Hon'ble ITAT Bangalore in the case of
 Google India Pvt. Ltd. were with respect orders passed u/s 201(1) and 201(1A) of the I.T. Act. Secondly, the Hon'ble ITAT Bangalore, while deciding these appeals in favour
 of the assessee i.e. Google India Pvt. Ltd , relied upon the decision of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence
 Private Limited Vs CIT & Anr. (2021) 432 ITR 471 (SC). 2. In the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private
 Limited Vs CIT & Anr. (2021) 432 ITR 471 (SC) the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 has rendered its decision only on 4 categories of cases. The relevant Para 4 of
 the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court is reproduced below : M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. ii) The second category of cases deals with resident Indian companies that act
as distributors or resellers, by purchasing computer software from foreign,
non-resident suppliers or manufacturers and then reselling the same to
resident Indian end-users. iii) The third category concerns cases wherein the distributor happens to be a
foreign, non-resident vendor, who, after purchasing software from a foreign,
non-resident seller, resells the same to resident Indian distributors or end-
users. iv) The fourth category includes cases wherein computer software is affixed
onto hardware and is sold as an integrated unit/equipment." ( Emphasis supplied) 3. With utmost humility and respect the undersigned wishes to state that the
instant appeal, which is against the Final Assessment Order u/s 143(3) rws 147
& 144C (5) of the I.T. Act, 1961 dated 30.10.2017, passed by DCIT (Intl. Taxn),
Bangalore, is NOT COVERED by the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited Vs CIT
& Anr. (2021) 432 ITR 471 (SC) as the business transaction of the appellant
i.e. Google Ireland Ltd. with Google India Pvt. Ltd. and the income earned by
the appellant i.e. Google Ireland Ltd. from other advertisers in India towards
sale of online ad space DOES NOT fall in any of the 4 categories of cases on
which the Hon'ble Supreme Court has rendered its decision in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited ( supra) and the
same will be established in the following Para 4. 4. Google Ireland Limited ("GIL"/ "assessee company") is having its
 registered office at Ireland. The Google Group of companies operates in the
 USA, UK, Ireland and a number of other countries including India. Google
 together with its Group Companies referred as "Google" specializes in internet
 Search engines and related advertising services. Google maintains an index of
 websites and other online content, which is made available through its search
 engine to anyone with an internet connection. Its powerful search technology
 helps people obtain nearly instant access to relevant information from its online
 index. Google derives more than 97% of its total revenues from advertising
 services through its AdWords Program worldwide. Business use the Adwords
 program to promote their products and services via targeted advertising.
4.1 The appellant company entered into an agreement with M/s. Google
 India Pvt. Ltd.(GIPL) for AdWords Program Distribution Agreement. As per
 this agreement the assessee company has given the marketing & distribution
 rights of AdWord programme to the advertisers in India.
4.2 Marketing and distribution services for the AdWords program -
Under the Google AdWords Program Distribution Agreement dated December
12, 2005 ('Agreement') entered into between GIPL and Google Ireland, Google
India is appointed as a non-exclusive authorized Distributor/Reseller of
AdWords program to the advertisers in India
4.3 Under the Amended Google AdWords Program Distribution Agreement
dated December 12, 2005 ("Distribution Agreement or Agreement") entered into
between Google India Pvt. Ltd. (GIPL) and Google Ireland Ld., Google India 7 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. was granted the marketing and distribution rights of AdWords program to the
advertisers in India. GIPL has a distribution team which markets and
distributes the AdWords program to the advertisers in India. For these
services, GIPL is remunerated on a cost plus mark-up basis for the
distribution services under the AdWords program. 4.4. The appellant vide letter dated 07.12.2016 had furnished the following
details before the A.O of the amount received/ receivable from India as given
below: About Google AdWords
• Google AdWords is an auction-based advertising program that lets
 advertisers deliver relevant ads targeted to search queries or web content
 across Google sites and through the Google Network (i.e. the network of
 third websites). These advertisements are word based advertisements.
 Advertisers describe their product/service using key words and provide those
 to Google along with its web address for displaying the advertisement on its
 search engine web page when the user/querist searches for such keywords. In
 summary, Google's AdWords associated with their advertisement. The main
 advantage of online advertisement is that it displays advertisement to the
 relevant User/searcher who is searching for such products/ services.
• Outside of USA, Google Ireland is the regional entrepreneur responsible for
 commercializing the Google AdWords product. It has rights of exploitation of
 AdWords to customers in the Europe. Middle East & Africa ('EMEA') and
 Asia Pacific ('APAC') regions. Thus Google Ireland sells/ has the rights to
 sell online ad space in India. • Every advertiser wanting to advertise has to provide his communication
 address, preference of keywords and content describing product/services for
 display, website link, countries for display etc. online for registering as an
 advertiser. • GIL on receipt of the content/keyword description verifies internally that such
 contents are (i) Permissible for advertising in the respective country/location
 chosen by the advertisers; and (ii) not infringing any copyright/trade mark
 registered by other advertisers. This verification process is completely
 automated. M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. • When the contents are found not in accordance with the advertisement policy,
 the same is communicated to the advertiser. The advertiser then has to
 modify the content/description and submit the same to GIL. On receipt of the
 modified content the above verification process is followed for clearance
 before the display of advertisement. • Upon clearance of the content/description, the advertisement are uploaded
 into the system at the data centre and displayed on the webpage.
Since the agreements and other transactions are similar to the one entered by
GIPL with the appellant company the discussions that are taken for
determining the chargeability of receipts from GIPL will apply accordingly for
these amounts also. 4.7 The AdWords program is complex computer software that is used by the
Advertisers to create, display and maintains advertisements. This aspect also
emerges from the description of the Adwords program in the submissions given
by the appellant during the course of 201 proceedings before the A.O which is
reproduced below for reference: 4.8 The AdWords Program is a complex computer software using which an
 Advertiser is able to publish an advertisement on the "Google Website". The
 fact that Adwords program is a complex computer program involving a
 database management system is ascertained from the description of the
 Adwords program in Wikipedia which is reproduced below: 4.9 And as discussed above, by virtue of the Distribution Agreement, the original
 copyright holder, Google Ireland, has granted GIPL the right to use the
 Adwords Program in India by authorizing GIPL to advertise, market and
 distribute the Adwords Program to the Advertisers, thereby transferring the
 copyright right as stipulated in Section 14(a)(iii) and Sec.14(b)(ii) of the Indian
 Copyright Act. Thus, the transaction in question involves transfer of copyright
 right to GIPL, though non-exclusive. 4.10 It does not matter if GIPL has been granted an exclusive or non-
exclusive right to market and distribute the Adwords Program in India. In fact
any right in respect of a copyright can be conferred, because a copyright is a
bundle of rights which may be divided and assigned, or restrained in whole or
in parts. 4.11 Therefore it is to be noted that the expression "exclusive right" used in Sec. 14 of the Copyright Act refers to the rights of author/creator and not the
 "exclusive right" to be given by him to some party to reproduce the
 copyrighted work or sell the computer programme etc. It also does not mean
 that non-exclusive right given by the owner of the copyright to some other party
 to do one or more acts will not have copyright in respect of the property. Even
 grant of one right in respect of a copyright or work would amount to transfer
 or the use of copyright. 4.12 Grant of distribution rights in AdWords program amounts to Royalty
 under clause (vi) to Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act
As per the Distribution Agreement, GIPL is only authorized (licensed) to use the
Ad words Program in India by way of being given the rights to advertise, market
and sell the AdWords Program to the Advertisers. Under the Distribution
Agreement the Ad words Program is not sold to GIPL. The consideration paid
by the GIPL to Google Ireland is for granting of license (authorization) to use
the copyright in the Adwords Program as specified in Section 14(a) (iii) and Section 14(b)(ii) and not for the purchase of such software. Obviously, the
consideration paid/payable by GIPL for such license or authorization is the
consideration paid/payable to GIL for the transfer of certain rights associated
with the copyright of the AdWords Program. And, any consideration for the
transfer of all or any rights in respect of any copyright is royalty as per the
definition of royalty in Sec.9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act.
4.13 Therefore whether the license granted is exclusive or non-exclusive
does not matter as long as a right is granted to GIPL. Amounts payable for the
acquisition of partial rights in the copyright without the transfer fully
alienating the copyright rights will represent a royalty. In the instant case, the
payments by GIPL to GIL are for the right to use the copyright in the Adwords
Program i.e. to exploit the rights that would otherwise be the sole prerogative of
the copyright holder i.e. GIL. Therefore, to constitute Royalty under the Income Tax Act it is not necessary that there should be transfer of exclusive
right in copyright, it is sufficient if there is transfer of any interest in the right 10 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. or if even if a license is granted to any interest in the right. Further the
consideration paid for transfer of any interest in the right/grant of a license
constitutes royalty for the purpose of the said clause in the Income tax Act.
Therefore the term exclusive right used in the copyright act and so relied upon
by GIPL cannot be superimposed when the definition clearly provides only for
use or the right to use the copyright to as to conclude that only in the event
when exclusive rights are transferred, the nature of payment will be deemed to
be royalty. 4.14. In the instant case the GIPL has to pay Google Ireland, the appellant for
being given the right to use the AdWords Program a) by virtue of having the rights to the advertising and market the AdWords
Program b) and the right to sell the license to use the Adwords program to the end-user
of AdWords Program who are Advertisers. 4.15 The Advertisers in India are the licensees who are allowed to use the
Intellectual Property embedded in the Adwords Programs by GIPL. Yet, by
giving the Distributor/Resellser (GIPL) the right to distribute and sell the
Adwords Program, the licensor (Google Ireland) has parted with the license
which the Distributor/Reseller (GIPL) uses in order to sell the Adwords
program to the end-user (Advertisers). The Distributor/Reseller (GIPL) may
not be licensed for use of the intellectual property (except the right to market
and resell) but nevertheless it has paid the consideration for its use. There is
nothing in the royalty definition to suggest that the consideration for use of
intellectual property will be consideration for royalty only if the payee itself is
the user of the right. Hence the sums received/receivable by Google Ireland
are covered by clause (v) of Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act.
4.16 Grant of distribution rights in AdWords program amounts to Royalty
under clause(i) and clause (iii) to Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act;
Vide the Distribution Agreement dated 12.12.2005, Google Ireland has agreed to
provide advertising space to GIPL through its "AdWords" program for
distribution to Indian advertisers (Clause 3.1 of the agreement). Clause 3.2
specifies that Google Ireland will train Google India. Further at Clause 6 of the
agreement, Google Ireland has granted GIPL a non-exclusive and non-sub
licensable license to display 'Google Brand Features' for the purpose of its
marketing and distribution activities. It is clear from Clause 2 of the Agreement
that GIPL has been appointed by Google Ireland as the Distributor/Reseller of
the AdWords Program. 4.17 The Adwords program basically relies on the powerful search engine
technology of Google which in itself is a process. Signing up on Adwords
program in effect allows the advertiser to access the auction pricing mechanism
of the Adwords program which is based on the search engine technology.
Google Ireland as per the service agreement with Google India owns the
Intellectual property for the search engine technology and Adwords program.
GIPL has been granted the right to distribute the Adwords program to
Advertisers in India i.e. GIPL has been granted certain rights connected to the
process i.e. distribution rights. GIPL is entrusted with the work of explaining the 11 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. Adwords product, its functions and auction-pricing mechanism to the
advertisers in India. GIPL has also to perform the task of billing and
collecting payment from Indian advertisers. GIPL also has to perform
functions which involve approving and administering advertisements to
conform to the Google editorial guidelines and responding to customer
queries. Like any other web based platform Adwords program has a front-end
portion and a back-end portion. The front-end portion is what the Advertiser or
the end-user sees while the back-end portion is accessible only by Google
Ireland and GIPL. Without access to the back end GIPL cannot perform its
activities of marketing and distribution. The back-end Includes databases,
software tools, documents etc which are used by GIPL to distribute and sell
the Adwords program and maintain the Adwords account of the advertisers.
In order to perform these activities GIPL will have to access the data centres
running the Google Adwords platform which are located outside India. GIPL
can have access to the processes running on these data centres based on the
distribution rights granted to it by Google Ireland. Without access to such
process GIPL will not be in a position to carry out the tasks as per the
Distribution Agreement. In the submission dated 22nd August 2013 before the
A.O it was stated that AdWords Program is operated on the servers located
outside India, which are not owned and controlled by GIPL.
4.18 As per the submission made before the A.O, GIPL is involved in
performing back office functions for Adwords program which include: GIPL reviews the advertisement on accordance with the company law and the
local law regulation, through various software. These are automated software
which provides assistance by filtering the content of the ads with specified
keywords and helps GIPL in reviewing the content of the ads.
4.19 It is evident from the above description of activities that GIPL is
allowed to access various features, software tools, databases which are
running on the servers located outside India in order to perform the various
activities and to carry out the tasks assigned to it. Hence GIPL has been
granted a) The right to distribute to Advertisers the licence to use the process of
Adwords program for the purpose of online advertisement. M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. b) The right to access platform for purpose of the maintaining the Advertisers
account and servicing the Advertisers. 4.20. Hence GIPL is granted the use of or the right to use the process in the
AdWords platform for the purpose of marketing and distribution. Therefore
clauses (i) and (iii) of Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) are satisfied and hence
the amounts paid/payable to Google Ireland are taxable under Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. 4.21 Grant of distribution rights also involves use of Industrial, commercial
and scientific equipment
The following are the facts which emerge from the Agreements regarding the
Adwords Program: M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. 4.23 Business Transaction of appellant company with other Indian
Customers: Section 9 serves the sole purpose of including within the tax net certain incomes
which under normal circumstances would not be taxed by the Department. It
employs a deeming provision whereby through a fiction of law; tax can be
levied on certain Incomes of residents / non residents which may be deemed to
accrue or arise in India. It includes within its ambit, Income of residents that
accrue or arise outside India as well as incomes of non residents that accrue or
arise in India. The constitutionality of Section 9 was tested and upheld in
numerous cases. Section 9 (v) , (vi), and (vii) were inserted by the Finance Act,
1976 . Through the abovementioned clauses, income is sought to be taxed by
employing the 'Source Rule'. The different types of Income falling within this
ambit are Interest, Royalty and Fees for technical services. Income deemed to
accrue or arise in India is covered under Section 9 of the Income tax Act of
1961. The proviso to Section 9 (1) (vi) creates an exception for income by way
of royalty which is obtained as consideration for the transfer of any data,
documentation, drawing or specification relating to any patent, invention,
model, design, secret formula or process or trademark or similar property, if
such income is payable in pursuance of an agreement. In addition to this, an
exception is created for any income by way of Royalty for transfer of rights for
any computer software supplied by a non resident manufacturer along with a
computer/ computer based equipment. 4.26 The words 'accrue' and 'arise' must be viewed in contradistinction to
the word "receive". Income is said to be received when it reaches the assessee.
On the other hand when the right to receive the income becomes vested in the
assessee it is said to accrue or arise. Section 9 encompasses all incomes that
shall be deemed to accrue or arise in India and it consists of all income
accruing or arising, whether directly or indirectly, through or from any
business connection in India. 4.27 India began expanding its tax base in 2012, starting with the amendments
to section 9(1)(vi) by Finance Act, 2012 , by virtue of which inter alia the 14 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. definition of royalty under the ITA was broadened. The explanation is extracted
 as under: 4.28 The above explanation has clearly done away with the territorial nexus
 principle and added more weight age to the Source Rule. Secondly, the word
 'rendered', included by the Courts has been removed. It is the situs of the payer
 and the situs of the utilization of services which will determine the taxability
 of such services in India. 4.29 Explanation to Section 9 clearly states that for accrual of royalty or
 FTS, there is no requirement of residence, place of business or business
 connection in India. If any payment is made by any person resident in India to
 a non resident person by way of royalty, income is deemed to accrue or arise in
 India. It was because of this deeming fiction, that the income is taxable in India.
 It is also observed that the double taxation avoidance agreement between
 India and Ireland does not come to the rescue of the appellant since this
 treaty itself provides that the income on account of royalty may be taxed in the
 source state as well. The AO has also discussed this issue in detail with the reasons and concluded
 that sums payable by GIPL to Google Ireland is Royalty within the meaning of
 DTA as well as within the meaning of section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. The same
 analogy applies to the amounts receivable by the appellant from direct
 advertisers in India towards the sale of online ad space are chargeable to tax as
 'Royalty' income both under the Act and the India-Ireland DTAA. 5. Finally, in view of detailed discussions on the Para 4 of this written
 submission, the issues in the case of the appellant company are NOT
 COVERED by the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited Vs CIT & Anr. (2021) 432 ITR 471 (SC)" to advertise its business on the Google Search Engine. The targeting
of advertisement is achieved by using appropriate keywords, which
can be selected only by the Advertiser. The Google AdWords
Program contains a glossary of keywords together with helpful
suggestions for the Advertiser to select appropriate keywords for his
targeted advertisement. Google AdWords Program also contains a
number of computer commands, by which the proposed Advertiser
can achieve a more focused and particularised targeting, such as
geographical or area targeting (advertisement to be shown only in a
particular area, say the State of Karnataka) or period targeting
(advertisement to be shown only in a certain period) or time
targeting (advertisement to be shown only at certain fixed times
during the day) or duration targeting (to be shown only for a fixed
time duration each time). All these types of targeting are over and
above the usual subject targeting and are achieved by simple
computer commands, given by the proposed Advertiser on the
Google AdWords Program. All these facilities are available on the
Google AdWords Program to any member of the public, free of 17 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. charge, to enable him to formulate a suitable draft advertisement for
his product or service. The only requirement is that the proposed
Advertiser should have a website of his own / or entity giving
particulars about his/ its business. The Google AdWords Program
itself gives step-by-step and detailed instructions, so that even a
person who has a basic knowledge of computers and internet can
create a draft advertisement and target it suitably by using the
necessary computer commands (or tools). No payment is made for
any use of the Google AdWords Program. After formulating the
draft advertisement, the Advertiser is required to upload the same
for display on Google Search Engine or other online properties
using the Google AdWords Program. No payment is made for the
same. Thereafter, the proposed advertisement is stored on the
servers of Google Ireland Ltd (GIL) located outside India for
undergoing a review process. 15. The review process is undertaken by GIL for advertisements
uploaded by Advertisers from all around the world including India.
Approximately 94% of global advertisements are reviewed by GIL
through its automated system located outside India. Remaining
global advertisements, which are not successfully reviewed by the
automated system, are subjected to a manual review. For carrying
out manual review, the balance 6% (approx.) global advertisements
are forwarded to one of service centres of GIL's group entities,
located in USA, Dublin, China, Korea, Japan, and India. An
advertisement in English by an Indian Advertiser may go for manual
review to any of these service centres. These service centres carry
out the activity of manual review on a cost-plus basis. The assessee
also carries out this activity under the ITES segment as per the
services agreement dated 1.4.2004 entered into with GIL. The
relevant terms and conditions of this agreement are as under: M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. 1.4 "Documentation" shall mean any and all information, written or
otherwise, provided by Goode Ireland to Google India describing the
Intellectual Property or the Products and any updated, improved or
modified version(s) of such materials including information contained in
published written materials, on magnetic media or communicated by
electronic means. 1.5 "intellectual Property' shall mean all intellectual, proprietary, and/or
intangible property rights constituting, embodied in. pertaining to, used in
or with respect to the business of Google Ireland, the Products, or the
provision of related services and all tangible embodiments hereof,
wherever located, including but not limited to the following: (i) all
trademarks, trade names, service marks, logos or trade dress, including all
registrations and applications therefor; (ii) all copyrights. Moral Rights
(as defined below), and other rights in works of authorship including all
registrations and applications therefor; (iii) all patents and patent
applications. patentable Ideas, Inventions, innovations and improvements; (iv) all know-how and trade secrets; v) all design and code documentation,
methodologies, processes, design information, design flows, encoding
techniques, applications, product information. Formulae, engineering
specifications, technical data, testing procedures, drawings and techniques
and other proprietary information and materials of any kind; (vi) all
software programs in both source code and object code format. including
all testing software and software tools: (vii) all documentation, records,
databases, drafts, designs, codes, drawings and algorithms: and (viii) all
confidential and proprietary information related to any of (i) through (vii)
above
**** **** ******
1.10 "Software Embodiments" shall mean all designs, discoveries,
inventions. Products. procedures, improvements, developments, drawings,
notes, Documentation. information. materials, Intellectual Property and
Derivative works Works made, conceived or developed by Google India
alone or with others which result from or relate to the Services
1.11 "Software Technology" shall mean all Intellectual Property,
Confidential Information, Documentation, Derivative works Works and
other technical data used by Google Ireland that are required, used or
appropriate for the design and development of Products. including the
reproduction, use, testing, operation, maintenance and service of such
Products. 2.1 Request Google India hereby agrees to perform certain information
technology, information technology enabled services and software
development services, as requested by Google Ireland from time to time,
with respect to Products, utilizing Google Ireland Software Technology
and other appropriate technology from Google Ireland or third parties
which may be properly used for these purposes. Google Ireland will specify 20 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. the information technology, information technology enabled services and
software development services to be performed, the Products to be worked
on or used, the time line for completion and the specific results to be
achieved (the Services"). 2.2 Performance. Upon agreement between Google Ireland and Google
India as to the Services and completion date for a particular Services
project, Google India will perform the Services. Google India agrees to use
commercially reasonable efforts to perform the Services in a timely fashion
and as described to it by Google Ireland. Google India may not
subcontract work under this Agreement unless specifically and to the extent
set forth in the Services. Google India shall, at all times, be responsible for
work done by its subcontractors within the scope of this Agreement as it is
for work done by its own employees. At the option of Google Ireland,
Google India shall make Goggle Ireland a party to the agreements that
Google India may execute with its subcontractors and Google Ireland shall
have the right to pre-approve the terms and conditions of such agreements
**** **** ****** 5. OWNERSHIP
5.1 Intellectual Property. Google India acknowledges the exclusive right.
title and interest of Google Ireland and its licensors and/or suppliers in
and to any and all Confidential Information, Intellectual Property,
Software Technology and Documentation, and Google India will not at any
time do or cause to be done any act or thing impairing or tending to impair
any part of said right, title and interest. Google India acknowledges and
agrees that all such Confidential Information, Intellectual Property,
Software Technology and Documentation shall remain the exclusive
property of Google Ireland and, as applicable, its licensors and/or
suppliers. 5. 2 Ownership of Derivative works Works and Software Embodiments.
Google India shall keep Google Ireland promptly informed of Google
India's development of any Derivative works Works and Software
Embodiments and hereby irrevocably agrees that all such Derivative works
Works and Software Embodiments shall forever be the sole and exclusive
property of Google Ireland throughout the world from the date of its
creation. As between Google Ireland and Google India no additional
action shall be required to vest all right, title and ownership of such
Derivative works Works and Software Embodiments in Google Ireland.
Google India shall furnish to Google Ireland all such Derivative works
Works and Software Embodiments developed by Google India as soon as
they become available. From time to-time, promptly upon receipt of
Google Ireland's request, Google India shall provide Google Ireland with
assignments, in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto to facilitate
Google Ireland's perfection of its rights in the Derivative works Works and
the Software Embodiments in any jurisdiction in the world. Google India
shall also promptly make available to Google Ireland all Residuals. If
Google India has any rights to Derivative works Works or Software
Embodiments that cannot be assigned to Google Ireland under law. Google 21 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. India hereby waives the enforcement of such rights; and if Google India
has any rights which cannot be assigned or waived under law, Google
India hereby grants to Google Ireland an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual,
worldwide, transferable, folly paid licence, with rights to sub license and
assign, to all such rights. Google India shall enter into agreements with its
Representatives sufficient to permit Google India to make the foregoing
grant of rights. 6.1 Access and Use of Confidential Information. During the course of
performance of this Agreement, Google Ireland will disclose certain
Confidential Information to Google India solely to permit Google India to
perform its obligations under this Agreement. Except as otherwise
provided in this Agreement, Google India agrees that such Confidential
Information shall be kept secret by Google India during the term of this
agreement and after the expiration hereof Google India shall refrain from
using or exploiting any and all Confidential Information for any purposes
or activities other than those contemplated in this Agreement.
6.2 Agreement Not to Disclose Confidential Information. Google India
shall not disclose or facilitate disclosure of such Confidential Information
to any Person without the prior consent of Google Ireland, except to its
Representatives, and then only to the extent necessary for the performance
of the activities contemplated by this Agreement. Google India shall cause
each of its Representatives with access to the Confidential Information to
enter into a nondisclosure agreement in a form approved by Google
Ireland. Google India shall use the highest standard of care currently
employed by any developer or distributor of high technology products in
order to avoid disclosure or misappropriation of such Confidential
Information. 6.3 Ownership and Return of Confidential Information. All files, lists,
records. documents, drawings, specifications, equipment and computer
programs which incorporate or refer to all or a portion of the Confidential
Information shall remain the sole property of Go ogle Ireland or its
licensors and suppliers. Such materials shall be promptly returned: (i)
upon Google Ireland's reasonable request, or (ii) in accordance with Section 12 upon termination of this Agreement, whichever is earlier. **** ********* ******
12.5 Rights and Duties of Termination. (a) Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement: 17. In a case where the assessee is involved in purchase and re-
sale of online advertisement space to Advertiser and if such
Advertiser finds it difficult to use Google AdWords Program, he can
get guidance and assistance from the employees of the assessee
working under the Distribution Segment. However, substantial
portion of Indian Advertisers in India prepare their draft
advertisements themselves, with the aid of the Google AdWords
Program itself. All this is completely free and is open to any member
of the public. No payment is made for any use of the Google
AdWords Program. In fact, even after using the Google AdWords
Program and formulating / displaying an online advertisement, no
payment is made by the Advertiser, unless the Ad is clicked by an
end-user. Relevant terms and conditions of the Distribution
Agreement are as under:- Timing for responses to Customer Queries from Distributor beyond the E-
Mail Escalation Limit shall be at Google's sole discretion.
Distributor agrees that Google will have the right, to review samples of
communications sent to Advertisers to assess the quality of responses and
modify communications accordingly. Google shall also have the right to
send questionnaires to Distributor's customers to ensure that Distributor
is providing an adequate level of service. Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement
This Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement (''Agreement'') is made and
entered into between Google Ireland Limited, for itself and its subsidiaries
and affiliates ("Google''), and "Participant' identified below, individually
referred to as a ''Party'' and collectively referred to as the "Parties". The
Parties wish to exchange Confidential Information (as defined below in Section 2 ) for the following purpose(s): a) to evaluate whether to enter
into a contemplated business transaction; and b) if the Parties enter into
an agreement related to such business transaction, to fulfill each Party's
confidentiality obligations to the extent the terms set forth below are
incorporated therein (the ''Purpose''). The Parties have entered into this
Agreement to protect the confidentiality of information in accordance with
the following terms: M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. 4. A Recipient will use the Confidential Information only for the Purpose
 described above. A Recipient will use the same degree of care. but no less
 than a reasonable degree of care, as the Recipient uses with respect to its
 own information of a similar nature to protect the Confidential
 Information and to prevent: (a) any use of Confidential Information in
 violation of this agreement; and/or (b) communication of Confidential
 Information to any unauthorized third parties. Confidential Information
 may only be disseminated to employees, directors, agents or third party
 contractors of Recipient with a need to know and who have first signed an
 agreement with either of the Parties containing confidentiality provisions
 substantially similar to those set forth herein. ***** ***** ***** 6. This Agreement imposes no obligation upon a Recipient with respect to
 Confidential Information that: (a) was known to the Recipient before
 receipt from the Discloser; (b) is or becomes publicly available through
 no fault of the Recipient; (c) is rightfully received by the Recipient from a
 third party without a duty of confidentiality; (d) is independently
 developed by the Recipient without a breach of this Agreement; (e) is
 disclosed by the Recipient with the Discloser's prior written approval; or (f) is required to be disclosed by operation of law, court order or other
 governmental demand ("Process''); provided that (i) the Recipient shall
 immediately notify the Discloser of such Process; and (ii) the Recipient
 shall not produce or disclose Confidential Information in response to the
 Process unless the Discloser has: (a) requested protection from the legal
 or governmental authority requiring the Process and such request has
 been denied, (b) consented in writing to the production or disclosure of
 the Confidential Information in response to the Process, or (c) taken no
 action to protect its interest in the Confidential Information within 14
 business days after receipt of notice from the Recipient of its obligation to
 produce or disclose confidential information in response to the Process
 ***** ***** ******* 11. No Party acquires any intellectual property rights under II Agreement
 (including, but not limited to, patent, copyright, and trademark rights)
 except the limited rights necessary to carry out the Purpose as forth in this
 Agreement. 12. Each Party acknowledges that damages for improper disclosure
 Confidential Information may be irreparable; therefore, the injured Party
 is entitled to seek equitable relief, including injunction and preliminary
 injunction, in addition to all other remedies available to it. 18. The standard agreement entered into between the assessee
and the advertisers is as under:- Customer signature
 Name
 Title
 Company
 Google Signature
 Name
 Title
 Company." 19. The Standard Google India Private Limited Advertising
Program Terms are as under: any Customer accounts. Ads may be placed on (y) any content or property
provided by Google ("Google Property"), and unless opted-out by
Customer (z) any other content or property provided by a third party (
"Partner") upon which Google places ads ("Partner Property"). With
respect to Adwords online auction-based advertising, Google may send
Customer an email notifying Customer it has 72 hours ("Modification
Period") to modify keywords and settings as posted. The account (as
modified by Customer otherwise as initially posted) is deemed approved
by Customer after the Modification Period, and Google is only liable to
Customer for discrepancies if Customer can certify by contemporaneous
documentary evidence that Google posted ads not approved by Customer.
With respect to all other advertising, Customer must provide Google with
all relevant Creative by the due date set forth in that advertising
Program's applicable FAQ or as otherwise communicated by Google.
Customer grants Google permission to utilize an automated software
program to retrieve and analyze websites associated with the Services for
ad quality and serving purposes, unless Customer specifically opts out of
the evaluation in a manner specified by Google. Google or Partners may
reject or remove any ad or Target any time for any or no reason. Google
may modify the Program or these Terms at any time without liability and
your use of the Program after notice that Terms have changed indicates
acceptance of the Terms. 3. Cancellation. Customer may independently cancel advertising itself
online through Customer's account. if any, or, if such online cancellation
functionality is not available, with prior written notice to Google,
including electronic mail. AdWords online auction-based advertising
cancelled online will cease serving upon cancellation. All other
advertising may be subject to Google's ability to re-schedule reserved
inventory or cancel advertisements already in production. Cancelled
advertisements may be published despite cancellation if cancellation of
those ads occurs after any applicable commitment date as set forth in
advance by the Partner or Google in which case Customer must pay for
those ads. Google may cancel immediately any 10, any of its advertising
Programs, or these Terms at any time with notice, in which case Customer
will be responsible for any ads already run. Google may modify any of its
advertising Programs at any time without liability. Sections I, 2, 3,5, 6, 7,
8, and 9 will survive any expiration or termination of this Agreement. 4. Prohibited Uses; License Grant; Representations and Warranties.
Customer shall not, and shall not authorize any party to: (a) generate
automated, fraudulent or otherwise invalid impressions, inquiries,
conversions, clicks or other actions; (b) use any automated means or form
of scraping or data extraction to access, query or otherwise collect
Google advertising related information from any Adwords website or
property except as expressly permitted by Google; or (c) advertise
anything illegal or engage in any illegal or fraudulent business practice.
Customer represents and warrants that it holds and hereby grants Google
and Partners all rights (including without limitation any copyright,
trademark, patent. publicity or other rights) in Creative. Services and 34 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. Targets needed for Google and Partner to operate Google's advertising
programs for Customer (including without limitation any rights needed to
host, cache, route, transmit, store, copy, modify, distribute, perform.
display, reformat. excerpt, analyze, and create algorithms from and
derivative works of Creative or Targets) in connection with this
Agreement ("Use"). Customer represents and warrants that LV) all
Customer information is complete, correct and current; and (z) any Use
hereunder and Customer's Creative, Targets, and Customer's Services will
not violate or encourage violation of any applicable laws, regulations,
code of conduct, or third party rights (including, without limitation,
intellectual property rights). Violation of the foregoing may result in
immediate termination of this Agreement or customer's account without
notice and may subject Customer to legal penalties and consequences. 5. Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability. To the fullest extent permitted by
law. GOOGLE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION FOR NON- INFRINGEMENT, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, Google disclaims all guarantees regarding positioning or the levels
or timing of (i) costs per click, (ii) click through rates, (iii) availability and
delivery of any impressions, Creative, or Targets on any Partner Property,
Google Property, or section thereof, (iv) clicks (v) conversions or other
results for any ads or Targets (vi) the accuracy of Partner data (e.g.
reach, size of audience, demographics or other purported characteristics
of audience), and (vii) the adjacency or placement of advertisements
within a Program. EXCEPT FOR indemnification AMOUNTS PAYABLE
TO THIRD PARTIES HEREUNDER AND CUSTOMER'S BREACHES OF
SECTION 1, to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) NEITHER PARTY
WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT,
EXEMPLARY, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION LOSS OF PROFITS, REVENUE, INTEREST, GOODWILL,
LOSS OR CORRUPTION OF DATA OR FOR ANY LOSS OR
INTERRUPTION TO CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS) WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) OR ANY OTHER
LEGAL THEORY, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL
PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY; AND (b) EACH PARTY'S
AGGREGATE LIABILITY TO THE OTHER IS LIMITED TO AMOUNTS
PAID OR PAYABLE TO GOOGLE BY CUSTOMER FOR THE AD
GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM. Except for payment obligations, neither
party is liable for failure or delay resulting from a condition beyond the
reasonable control of the party, including but not limited to acts of God,
government, terrorism, natural disaster, labor conditions and power
failures. 6. Agency. Customer represents and warrants that (a) it is authorized to
act on behalf of and has bound to this Agreement any third party for which
Customer advertises (a "Principal'') (b) as between Principals and
Customer, the Principal owns any rights to Program information in 35 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. connection with those advertisements, and (c) Customer shall not disclose
Principal's Program information to any other party without Principal's
consent. 7. Payment Customer shall be responsible for all charges up to the
amount of each 10, or as set in an online account, and shall pay all
charges in Indian Rupees or in such other currency as agreed to in writing
by the parties. Unless agreed to by the parties in writing, Customer shall
pay all charges in accordance with the applicable 10 or Program FAQ.
Late payments bear interest at the rate of 1.5% per month (or the highest
rate permitted by law, if less). Charges are exclusive of taxes, cesses or
other applicable levies. Customer is responsible for paying (y) all
applicable taxes, cesses and levies, government charges, and (z)
reasonable expenses and attorneys fees Google incurs collecting late
amounts. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Customer waives all
claims relating to charges unless claimed within 60 days after the charge
(this does not affect Customer's credit card issuer rights). Charges are
solely based on Google's measurements for the applicable Program,
unless otherwise agreed in writing. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
refunds (if any) are at the discretion of Google and only in the form of
advertising credit for only Google Properties. Nothing in these Terms or
an 10 may obligate Google to extend credit to any party. Customer
acknowledges and agrees that any credit card and related billing and
payment information that Customer provides to Google may be shared by
Google with companies who work on Google's behalf, such as payment
processors and/or credit agencies, solely for the purposes of checking
credit, effecting payment to Google and servicing Customer's account.
Google may also provide information in response to valid legal process,
such as subpoenas, search warrants and court orders, or to establish or
exercise its legal rights or defend against legal claims. Google shall not
be liable for any use or disclosure of such information by such third
parties. 8. Indemnification. Customer shall indemnify without limit and defend
Google, its Partners, agents, affiliates, and licensors from any third party
claim or liability (collectively, "Liabilities"), arising out of Use,
Customer's Program use, Targets, Creative and Services and breach of
the Agreement. Partners shall be deemed third party beneficiaries of the
above Partner indemnity. Without limitation to the generality of the
foregoing, Customer shall indemnify Google against any Liabilities or
losses arising out of any claim based on any act or allegation of
infringement of intellectual property, misrepresentation or defamation. 9. Arbitration. The parties agree that they will try in good faith to settle
within thirty (30) days any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of
relating to or in connection with this Agreement ("Dispute''). If the
Dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days after such Dispute arose,
such Dispute must be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration, to
which the Parties hereto expressly agree and submit. The arbitration will
be submitted to the International Centre for Dispute Resolution of the
American Arbitration Association ("AAA") and conducted in accordance 36 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the AAA in force as of the date
of this Agreement ("Rules''). Pre-hearing information exchange shall be
limited to the reasonable production of relevant, non-privileged
documents and carried out expeditiously. There will be one arbitrator
selected by mutual agreement of the Parties. The arbitrator will not act as
amiable compositeur or ex aequo et bono. It is the intent of the parties
that, barring extraordinary circumstances, arbitration proceedings will be
concluded within 60 days from the date the arbitrator is appointed. The
arbitrator may extend this time limit in the interests of justice. Failure to
adhere to this time limit shall not constitute a basis for challenging the
award. The arbitration will be conducted in English and the place of
arbitration will be Bangalore, India. Either party may, without waiving
any remedy under this Agreement, apply to the arbitrator and/or any court
having jurisdiction any interim, provisional, injunctive or conservatory
relief that is necessary to protect the rights or property of that party until
the arbitration award is rendered or the Dispute is otherwise resolved.
Any decision rendered by the arbitrator will be final and binding on the
parties, and judgment thereon may be entered by any court of competent
jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, any court that has jurisdiction
over either of the parties or any of their assets. The parties expressly
agree that the arbitrator will be empowered to award and order equitable
or injunctive relief with respect to matters brought before him, provided
however, that such remedy or relief is consistent with the remedies and
limitations set forth in this Agreement. The parties agree that all arbitral
proceedings conducted pursuant to this Section, including the existence of
any arbitral proceedings, information disclosed in the course of such
arbitral proceedings, and any settlements, negotiations, discussions,
proposals, and awards related thereto shall be considered confidential
information and shall not be disclosed to third parties except as required
by law or otherwise provided herein. The parties may, however, disclose
such information to an appropriate court, as is necessary to seek
enforcement of any award rendered by the arbitrator or to seek any
interim, provisional, injunctive or conservatory relief pursuant to the
terms hereof 10. Miscellaneous. The Agreement must be construed as if both parties
jointly wrote it, governed by Indian law. The Agreement constitutes the
entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof and supersedes and replaces any other applicable agreements,
terms and conditions applicable to the subject matter hereof Any
conflicting or additional terms contained in additional documents (e.g.
reference to a purchase order number) or oral discussions are void. Each
party shall not disclose the terms or conditions of these Terms to any third
party, except to its professional advisors under a strict duty of
confidentiality or as necessary to comply with a government law, rule or
regulation. Customer may grant approvals, permissions, extensions and
consents by email, but any modifications by Customer to the Agreement
must be made in a writing executed by both parties. Any notices to Google
must be sent to Google India Pvt. Ltd., No.3, RMZ Infinity - Tower E, Old
Madras Road, 4th Floor, Bangalore, 560016, India with a copy to Legal 37 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. Department, via confirmed facsimile, with a copy sent via first class or air
 mail or overnight courier, and are deemed given upon receipt. Notice to
 Customer may be effected by sending email to the email address specified
 in Customer's account, or by posting a message to Customer's account
 interface, and is deemed received when sent (for email) or no more than
 15 days after having been posted (for messages in Customer's account
 interface). A waiver of any default is not a waiver of any subsequent
 default. Unenforceable provisions will be modified 10 reflect the parties'
 intention and only to the extent necessary to make them enforceable, and
 remaining provisions of the Agreement will remain in full effect. Customer
 may not assign any of its rights hereunder and any such attempt is void.
 Google and Customer and Google and Partners are not legal partners or
 agents, but are independent contractors. In the event that these Terms or
 an Advertising Program expire or is terminated, Google shall not be
 obligated to return any materials to Customer. 11. Term: Unless terminated earlier under the terms of this Agreement
 This Agreement shall have a term of 1 year from the latest of the signature
 dates below. Customer acknowledges and agrees that if this Agreement
 expires or is terminated any Customer campaigns in effect as of the date
 of such expiration or termination or any new campaigns commenced after
 such expiration or termination shall run thereafter subject to Google's
 then standard terms and conditions for the Program." 20. Under the Distribution Agreement, the assessee acted as a
distributor of online advertisement space to Indian Advertisers.
The assessee was ensured a specified margin over its cost from
GIL. If in case, the revenue recorded by the assessee from the sale
of online advertisement space to Indian Advertisers was less than
its cost (incurred in connection with its distribution function) plus
the specified margin, GIL was required to compensate the assessee
for the difference. However, where the revenue recorded by the
assessee from the onward sale of online advertisement space to
Indian Advertisers was more than the cost plus the specified
margin of the assessee, the assessee was required to make the
payment to GIL. 21. In the present case, it is not in dispute that the DTAA
between India - Ireland is applicable in respect of the payments
made by the assessee to Google Ireland. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence (P) Ltd v CIT (supra) at para 108 of its judgment held as under:- 22. Thus, the definition of the term "royalty" in Article 12(3) of
the India - Ireland DT AA override the definition of "royalty" as
provided in Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the Act by virtue of section 90(2) . Therefore, the definition of the term "royalty" under
the India - Ireland DTAA being more beneficial to the assessee
must only be considered in these appeals. The findings of the AO
and CIT(A) as regards the characterisation of the payments to
Google Ireland as 'Royalty' under section 9(l)(vi) of the Act is
therefore not relevant and consequently correctness of these
findings need not be adjudicated in these appeals. Similarly, we do
not think it is necessary to decide whether the services agreement
and distribution agreement are interlinked or complementary to
each other. ITES services are enabling the overall business and
not directly related to generating revenue from Adword Program
in India. Revenue is generated by end customers clicking on link
and not because of ITES services. Even if it is interlinked, the
internal tools / intangibles / software of Google Ireland are
admittedly not transferred to assessee. The assessee has only right
to use these for rendering ITES services. Applying ratio of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre
of Excellence Private Limited (supra), this cannot result in royalty.
We proceed to examine whether the definition of 'Royalty' as per Article 12 of India- Ireland DT AA is satisfied in the present case
considering the distribution agreement, services agreement and the
facts on record. 23. The definition of 'Royalty' as per Article 12(3)(a) of India -
Ireland DTAA is as under:- 24. The first limb of the above definition treats consideration for
the use of or the right to use any copyright of literary, artistic or 39 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. scientific work including cinematograph film or films or tapes for
radio or television broadcasting as royalty. The computerised
advertising program i.e., "Google AdWords Program" is
essentially a computer program i.e., a computer software. As per
Explanation 3 to section 9(l)(vi) , a computer software means any
computer programme recorded on any disc, tape, perforated media
or other information storage device and includes any such
programme or any customized electronic data. It is not in dispute
that the Adwords Program is used by the assessee in the present
case be it for the purpose of discharging its functions under the
distribution agreement or under the services agreement. However,
the question for our consideration is whether the copyright in
"Google AdWords Program" is used by the assessee or not? In
order to attract definition of 'Royalty', there has to be use or right
to use, inter alia, any copyright. The issue as to whether usage of
computer software tantamounts to royalty, is now resolved by the
Supreme Court decision in the case of Engineering Analysis
Centre of Excellence Private Limited (supra). The Supreme Court
grouped the various appeals on the aspect of royalty issue on
software payments into four categories as under:- 25. The Supreme Court made a reference to the relevant
provisions of the Copyright Act and on the interpretation of the
same, it accepted the difference between a copyright right and
copyrighted article. The important observations of the Supreme
Court are summarized as follows:- would alone be relevant to determine taxability under the DTAA, as it is
more beneficial to the assessee as compared to section 9(l)(vi) of the
Income-tax Act, as construed by the High Court. Here again, section 90(2) of the Income-tax Act, read with explanation 4 thereof has not been
properly appreciated
 **** ******** ****** 117. The conclusions that can be derived on a reading of the aforesaid
judgments are as follows: Ownership of copyright in a work is different from the ownership of the
physical material in which the copyrighted work may happen to be
embodied An obvious example is the purchaser of a book or a CD/DVD,
who becomes the owner of the physical article, but does not become the
owner of the copyright inherent in the work, such copyright remaining
exclusively with the owner. (iii) Parting with copyright entails parting with the right to do any of
the acts mentioned in section 14 of the Copyright Act. The transfer of the
material substance does not, of itself, serve to transfer the copyright
therein. The transfer of the ownership of the physical substance, in which
copyright subsists, gives the purchaser the right to do with it whatever he
pleases, except the right to reproduce the same and issue it to the public,
unless such copies are already in circulation, and the other acts
mentioned in section 14 of the Copyright Act. (iv) A licence from a copyright owner, conferring no proprietary interest
on the licensee, does not entail parting with any copyright, and is different
from a licence issued under section 30 of the Copyright Act, which is a
licence which grants the licensee an interest in the rights mentioned in section 14(a) and 14(b) of the Copyright Act. Where the core of a
transaction is to authorize the end-user to have access to and make use of 42 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. the "licensed" computer software product over which the licensee has no
 exclusive rights, no copyright is parted with and consequently, no
 infringement takes place, as is recognized by section 52(l)(aa) of the
 Copyright Act. It makes no difference whether the end-user is enabled to
 use computer software that is customised to its specifications or
 otherwise. (v) A non-exclusive, non-transferable licence, merely enabling the
 use of a copyright product, is in the nature of restrictive conditions which
 are ancillary to such use, and cannot be construed as a licence to enjoy all
 or any of the enumerated rights mentioned in section 14 of the Copyright
 Act. or create any interest in any such rights so as to attract section 30 of
 the Copyright Act. (vi) The right to reproduce and the right to use computer software
 are distinct and separate rights, as has been recognized in State Bank of
 India (supra) (see paragraph 21), former amounting to parting with
 copyright and the latter, in the context of no exclusive EULAs, not being
 so." 26. Having considered the above principles in the context of
copyright royalty, we proceed to examine the applicability of the
above principles to the facts of the present case particularly with
reference to distribution agreement, services agreement and other
facts on record. As per para 2.1 of the distribution agreement,
assessee is appointed as a non exclusive authorised distributor of
Google Adwords program to Advertisers. Para 2.2 of the agreement
states that the distributor agrees to market and distribute Adwords
program to advertisers within the broad guidelines provided by
Google with its reasonable commercial expertise and own sales
force and customer service infrastructure. It also provides that the
Distributor will distribute the AdWords program in accordance
with the training provided by Google. As per para 2.3, distributor
shall be responsible for uploading all Advertiser information that is
required by Google for participation in the Adwords Program. As
per para 2.6, distributor will provide after sales services to
Advertisers in accordance with the broad instructions, training and
standards of Google. The advertising space is provided by GIL
through the Adwords program and GIL also agreed to train the
distributor. It is specifically agreed that the agreement shall
constitute a non exclusive relationship between Google Ireland and
distributor. Google Ireland owns all right, title and interest in and
to all information and data including the user data collected by it in
connection with the provision of the Adwords Program. 27. As per the service level agreement - Exhibit C to distribution
agreement, assessee distributor shall be solely responsible for 43 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. providing all customer services to Advertisers, according to the
procedures, and in compliance with standards, provided by Google.
All Advertisers shall be instructed by Distributor to contact
Distributor directly for support, and not to communicate directly
with Google Ireland. Distributor agrees that it shall provide
minimum levels of service like Business hours phone support to all
Advertisers, E-mail queries from Advertisers shall be responded to
within one (l) business day with immediate resolution of any issues
when possible. It was decided that the issues that cannot
immediately be resolved by Distributor based on training and
procedures provided under the Agreement must be communicated
promptly to Google Ireland by Distributor / assessee, and Google
Ireland will assist assessee / Distributor in determining the best
solution. It was also agreed that the distributor agrees that Google
Ireland will have the right, to review samples of communications
sent to Advertisers to assess the quality of responses and modify
communications accordingly. Google Ireland shall also have the
right to send questionnaires to Distributor's customers to ensure
that Distributor is providing an adequate level of service. 28. As per the standard Advertising program terms, the
advertiser is solely responsible for all ad targeting options,
keywords and all ad content. The advertiser represents and
warrants that it holds and hereby grants Google and Partners all
rights (including without limitation any copyright, trademark,
patent, publicity or other rights) in Creative, Services and Targets
needed for Google and Partner to operate Google's advertising
programs for Customer (including without limitation any rights
needed to host, cache, route, transmit, store, copy, modify,
distribute, perform, display, reformat, excerpt, analyze, and create
algorithms from and derivative works of Creative or Targets) in
connection with this Agreement ("Use"). The advertiser represents
and warrants that (y) all Customer information is complete, correct
and current; and (z) any Use hereunder and Customer's Creative,
Targets, and Customer's Services will not violate or encourage
violation of any applicable laws, regulations, code of conduct, or
third party rights (including, without limitation, intellectual
property rights). Violation of the foregoing may result in immediate
termination of this Agreement or customer's account without notice
and may subject Customer to legal penalties and consequences. 29. As per the services agreement, the assessee was providing
information and information technology enabled services to Google 44 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. Ireland. As regards ownership of intellectual property and
ownership of derivate works, it was agreed that all intellectual
property shall remain the exclusive property of Google Ireland. The
confidential information provided by Google Ireland was to be
employed by the assessee in performance of its services under the
agreement and it shall remain the sole property of the Google
Ireland. The statements recorded from the employees also confirms
that the confidential information, software technology and the
training documents for providing services under the services
agreement are provided by Google Ireland to the assessee. 30. On a consideration of all the above agreements and the facts
on record, we find that none of the rights as per section 14(a) /(b)
and section 30 of the Copyright Act, 1957 have been
transferred by Google Ireland to the assessee in the present case.
As held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Engineering
Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited v. CIT & Anr. (supra), mere use of or right to use a computer program without
any transfer of underlying copyright in it as per section 14(a) /(b) or section 30 of the Copyright Act, 1957 will not be satisfying the
definition of Royalty under the Act / DTAA. Similarly, use of
confidential information, software technology, training documents
and others are all 'literary work' with copyrights in it owned by the
foreign entity and there was no transfer or license of copyrights in
favour of the assessee company. Hence, the impugned payments
cannot be characterised as 'Royalty' under the DTAA. 31. The lower authorities have held that the assessee has been
granted the use of or right to use trademarks, other brand features
and the process owned by Google Ireland for the purpose of
distribution of Adwords program and consequently the sums
payable to Google Ireland are royalty. As per Article 12 of India -
Ireland DTAA, consideration for the use of or right to use any
patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or
process is regarded as royalty. In the present case, as per the
distribution agreement, "Google Brand Features" means the
Google trade names, trademarks, service marks, logos, domain
names, and other distinctive brand features, with some but not all
examples at "http://www.google.com/permissions/trademarks.
html" (or such other URL that Google may provide from time to
time), and such other trade names, trademarks, service marks,
logos, domain names, or other distinctive brand features that
Google may provide to Distributor for use solely under this 45 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. Agreement. As per para 6 of the distribution agreement, each party
shall own all right, title and interest, including without limitation
all Intellectual Property Rights, relating to its Brand Features and
Google Irland grants to the assessee / distributor nonexclusive and
nonsublicensable licence during the Term to display Google Brand
Features solely for the purpose of distributor's marketing and
distribution of AdWords Program under the terms and subject to
the conditions set forth in this Agreement. It is thus evident that the
trademark and other brand features are not used independently or
de hors the distribution agreement but they are incidental or
ancillary for the purpose of carrying out the marketing and
distribution of Adword program. The Delhi High Court in DIT v
Sheraton International Inc [2009] 313 ITR 267 held that when the
use of trade mark, trade name etc are incidental to the main service
of advertisement, publicity and sales promotion and further when
there is no consideration payable for such use of trade mark, trade
name etc, the consideration cannot be characterised as royalty.
Applying the said principle, in the present case, use of Google
Brand Features etc are de hors any consideration payable to
Google Ireland and further they are incidental and ancillary for
achieving the main purpose of marketing and distributing the
Google Adwords Program. Hence, the lower authorities were not
right in treating the payments as Royalty. 32. As regards the applicability of 'use of or right to use
industrial, commercial or scientific equipment" the CIT(A) held that
the assessee cannot be said to have gained right to use any
scientific equipment, since, Google Ireland has not parted with the
copyright it holds in the Adwords program and hence it cannot be
said that any kind of technical knowhow has been transferred to the
assessee company. The CIT(A) was not in agreement with the AO
on the above issue without prejudice to his view in holding that the
remitted amount is royalty on different grounds. The revenue has
not challenged the said finding of CIT(A). Hence, the impugned
payments cannot be regarded as made for 'use of or right to use
industrial, commercial or scientific equipment'. The remaining
portion of definition of 'Royalty' under the India - Ireland DT AA is
consideration for information concerning industrial, commercial or
scientific experience. The AO has not characterised the impugned
payments as a consideration for the above. In any case, CIT(A) has
given a finding that it cannot be said that any kind of technical
knowhow has been transferred to the assessee company. This has
not been challenged by the revenue. M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. 33. Thus on an overall analysis of the entire facts on record, we
hold that the impugned payments cannot be regarded as royalty
under the India - Ireland DTAA. It is true that the Google Adword
program was commercially and profitably exploited in a
commercial sense and profitable manner in India to generate
revenues from Indian customers or advertisers. This is the business
or commercial aspect of the transaction. However, the stand of the
lower authorities that the impugned payments are in the nature of
Royalty cannot be upheld especially under Article 12 of the India -
Ireland DTAA merely because the marketing, distribution and ITES
activities are carried out in India and revenues are generated from
India or from Indian Advertisers. As held by the Supreme Court in
the case of UOI v Azadi Bachao Andolan [2003] 263 ITR 706, at
page 763: 34. Before concluding, it is to be mentioned that the taxability
with respect to payments made for purchase of online advertisement
has been decided by the following Co-ordinate Bench orders of the
I.T.Act:- CIT(A) held them to be royalty. The Tribunal relied on the decision in
Yahoo (supra) to delete the disallowance. It was also observed by the
Tribunal that the said payments were business profits, which were not
taxable in India, since GIL did not have a PE in India. (iii) Right Florists (supra): Right Florist was a florist who used
Google Search Engine for online advertising, to generate more business for
itself. In this case again, the AO had disallowed the payments made by
Right Florist for online advertising under section 40(a)(i) of the Act.
However, the CIT(A) reversed the said decision on the ground that none of
the recipients of the payments had a PE in India. The Tribunal, in
Department's appeal, upheld the order of the CIT(A), while observing that
the decisions in Yahoo (supra) and Pinstorm (supra) were authorities in
support of the proposition that payment by the Indian arm of a foreign
owner of search engine portal, in connection with online advertising, is not
in the nature of royalty as per section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. In this decision,
the Tribunal also discussed the modalities involved in the online
advertising business, in the context of Google Search Engine. (iv) Inception Business (supra): In this case the assessee was
engaged in the business of brand management as well as posting
advertisements in the social portal on behalf of their clients. The AO held
the payments made by it for that purpose to Facebook Ireland Ltd., a non-
resident, to be taxable in India. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO.
The Tribunal relied on the decision in Yahoo (supra), Pinstorm (supra), Right Florists (supra), while setting aside the order of the AO/ CIT(A) and
holding that the payments for purchase of online advertisement space were
not taxable in India. (v) Urban Ladder (supra): The assessee in this case, made
payments to Facebook Ireland Ltd., for online advertising. The AO held
the said payments to be royalty. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO.
However, while doing so, the CIT(A) relied upon certain functional aspects
of advertisement system qua Patent Number US20040059708A1 as well as
US7778872B2. These two patents are held by Google LLC., USA in
connection with the Google AdWords Program hereto. The Tribunal, set
aside the order of the CIT(A), while following the decision of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Engineering Analysis (supra). The Hon'ble Tribunal
also relied on the decisions in Yahoo (supra), Pinstorm (supra) and Right
Florists (supra). (vi) Myntra Designs (supra): Myntra in this case, made payments to
Facebook Ireland Ltd., for online advertising. The AO held the said
payments to be royalty and in the alternate, as FTS. The CIT(A) upheld the
order of the AO. The Tribunal followed the decision in Urban Ladder
(supra), while setting aside the order of the CIT(A). (vii) Play Games (supra): Play games is engaged in the business of
providing a platform for online gaming. It had made payments to
Facebook Ireland Ltd. for online advertising. The AO and CIT(A) in this
case as well, held that payments to be taxable in India. The Hon'ble
Tribunal observed that Play Games did not get any right to modify/ deal 48 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. with the servers, which belonged to Facebook Ireland Ltd., in any manner.
 It was also observed inter alia that the said servers, which hosted online
 advertisements, were located outside India and that Facebook Ireland Ltd.
 did not have a PE in India. In that manner, the Tribunal set aside the order
 of the CIT(A) and held the payments in question to be neither royalty, nor
 FTS. (viii) Matrimony.com (supra): Matrimony.com in this case, made
 payments to Facebook Ireland Ltd. for online advertising. The AO in this
 case as well, disallowed the said payments under section 40(a)(i) of the
 Act, which action was upheld by the CIT(A). The Tribunal followed the
 decision in Urban Ladder (supra), while deleting the said disallowance. (ix) ESPN Digital Media (supra): ESPN India in this case, entered
 into a re-seller agreement with ESPN UK, for the resale of online
 advertisement space. In terms thereof, ESPN India purchased online
 advertisement space for re-sale to Indian advertisers. For this purchase, it
 made payments to ESPN UK, which were characterised as royalty by the
 AO. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO. The Tribunal, in second
 appeal, set aside the order of the CIT(A), while observing that ESPN India
 was merely making payment under the re-seller agreement towards
 purchase of online advertisement space. It was also observed that a website
 is not a tangible property and is certainly not a high-tech equipment. It was
 also observed that the reliance of the AO and CIT(A) on the decision in Verizon Communications Singapore Pte Ltd. v. ITO , (2014) 361 ITR 575
 (Madras High Court) was misplaced, since the same had been overruled by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the decision in Engineering Analysis (supra). (x) Interactive Avenues (supra): Interactive Avenues is an internet
 advertising agency, which places online advertisements on behalf of its
 clients. The payments in this case were made to Facebook Ireland Ltd.,
 which were disallowed by the AO and the CIT(A). The Tribunal observed
 that Interactive Avenues was utilising Google Search Engine amongst
 others, to buy online advertisement space on behalf of its clients. Be that
 as it may, the Tribunal set aside the order of the CIT(A) and held that the
 payments in question could not be characterised as royalty, while relying
 on the decisions in Urban Ladder (supra) and Play Games (supra). 35. It is also relevant to point out that in the context of
interpreting Article 12(3) of India - Ireland DTAA, it is relevant to
take note of the existing international jurisprudence. The Technical
Advisory Group ("TAG") set up by the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development ("OECD"), in its Report (2001) on
treaty characterisation of electronic commerce payments analysed
various e-commerce transactions and suggested suitable
characterisation for consideration flowing thereunder. One of the
transactions analysed by TAG was advertising. In the context of
online advertisements, including advertisements where the payment
is based on number of clicks (i.e., CPC basis), TAG recommended 49 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. taxability of such payments under Article 7 of the relevant DTAA.
The said Article 7 deals with "business profits" and not royalty.
Business profits under Article 7 are taxable only where the non-
resident has a PE in India. 36. It is important to note that TAG was set up by OECD and its
recommendation on changes to the OECD commentary were
accepted by OECD. As per the recent decision of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Engineering Analysis , (supra), OECD
commentary is a necessary aid for the interpretation of provisions
contained in DTAA. In fact, the High-Powered Committee
("HPC") on electronic commerce and taxation, set up by the
Central Board of Direct Taxes ("CBDT") had also accepted the
view taken by TAG and recommended taxing consideration flowing
for online advertisement under Article 7 , and not Article 12 of the
relevant DTAA. 37. Therefore, in terms of the international guidance as stated
herein, the position regarding taxability of receipts from sale of
online advertisement space is clear. Unless the non-resident, who
is engaged in sale of online advertisement space, has a PE in India,
no portion of receipts earned by it from sale of online advertisement
space in India can be brought to tax in India as Act read with the
relevant DTAA. 38. The above view is also supported by insertion of provisions
related to Equalisation Levy (EL) by Finance Act, 2016 . The root
for the emergence of the EL can be traced to the dynamic business
models that have the ability to transcend the link between an
income producing activity and a specific location since these
business are carried in the cyber place. The PE definition presently
is based upon the physical presence criteria. The new business
models also created challenges in characterizing the nature of
payment - whether the payment is for services or for any IPR and
hence royalty or whether it represents pure business profits.
Various ITAT decisions, as discussed above, have held that income
from sale of advertisement space on a website is not taxable in
India if there is no PE of the foreign enterprise in India. It was held
that such income is not to be regarded as royalty or FTS. Such tax
challenges is addressed by the introduction of EL. Section 165 of
the Finance Act, 2016 provides for charge of EL at 6% on
consideration for specified services. Section 164(i) of Finance Act,
2016 provides that "specified service" means online advertisement,
any provision for digital advertising space or any other facility or 50 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. service for the purpose of online advertisement and includes any
 other service as may be notified by the Central Government in this
 behalf. Thus, online advertisement is now covered under EL. If
 online advertisement was already covered under definition of
 royalty, then bringing it as part of EL scheme would not arise. 39. In view of the aforesaid discussion and the judicial
 pronouncements, cited supra, we hold that the impugned payment
 cannot be characterized as royalty under the India-Ireland DTAA.
 It is ordered accordingly. 40. In the result, the appeals filed by the assessee are allowed." 9. In view of above order of Tribunal, where it is stated that the payment
made by GIPL to GIL is not in the nature of Royalty or FTS under the Act and
DTAA, a different treatment cannot taken in the hands of the payee, i.e. the
assessee in the instant case. The contentions raised in the written submission
of the learned D.R. has been addressed by the Tribunal in the payer's case i.e.
GIPL (supra). Hence, we are not dealing with the same in this order.
Therefore, we hold that a sum of Rs.42,57,53,347/- cannot be brought to tax in
the hands of the assessee. 10. As regards receipt of Rs.51,09,74,532/- on sale of advertisement space
from Indian customers other than GIPL we find it is covered in favour of the
assessee by the following orders of the Tribunal: - The payment remitted by Yahoo India to Yahoo Hong Kong was the
 subject matter of dispute before the Tribunal. The AO as well as
 CIT(A) held such payments to be royalty and in that manner,
 disallowed the expenditure in the hands of Yahoo India under section
 40(a) of the Act. The Tribunal, in second appeal, held that banner 51 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. advertisement hosting services did not involve use or right to use any
industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment and no such use was
granted by Yahoo Hong Kong. In that manner, the Tribunal set aside
the findings of the AO and CIT(A), wherein the subject payments
were characterised as royalty. (ii) Pinstorm (supra): Pinstorm was engaged in buying online
advertisement space for onward re-sale to an advertiser, much like
GIPL in the present case. For such purpose, Pinstorm made
payments to GIL, which were disallowed by the AO and CIT(A)
under section 40(a)(i) of the Act, on the premise that the said
payments were taxable in India. While the AO held the said
payments to be fees for technical services ("FTS"), the CIT(A) held
them to be royalty. The Tribunal relied on the decision in Yahoo
(supra) to delete the disallowance. It was also observed by the
Tribunal that the said payments were business profits, which were
not taxable in India, since GIL did not have a PE in India. (iii) Right Florists (supra): Right Florist was a florist who used
Google Search Engine for online advertising, to generate more
business for itself. In this case again, the AO had disallowed the
payments made by Right Florist for online advertising under section
40(a)(i) of the Act. However, the CIT(A) reversed the said decision on the ground that none of the recipients of the payments had a PE in
India. The Tribunal, in Department's appeal, upheld the order of the
CIT(A), while observing that the decisions in Yahoo (supra) and Pinstorm (supra) were authorities in support of the proposition that
payment by the Indian arm of a foreign owner of search engine
portal, in connection with online advertising, is not in the nature of
royalty as per section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. In this decision, the
Tribunal also discussed the modalities involved in the online
advertising business, in the context of Google Search Engine. (iv) Inception Business (supra): In this case the assessee was
engaged in the business of brand management as well as posting
advertisements in the social portal on behalf of their clients. The AO
held the payments made by it for that purpose to Facebook Ireland
Ltd., a non-resident, to be taxable in India. The CIT(A) upheld the
order of the AO. The Tribunal relied on the decision in Yahoo
(supra), Pinstorm (supra), Right Florists (supra), while setting aside
the order of the AO/ CIT(A) and holding that the payments for
purchase of online advertisement space were not taxable in India. (v) Urban Ladder (supra): The assessee in this case, made
payments to Facebook Ireland Ltd., for online advertising. The AO 52 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. held the said payments to be royalty. The CIT(A) upheld the order of
the AO. However, while doing so, the CIT(A) relied upon certain
functional aspects of advertisement system qua Patent Number
US20040059708A1 as well as US7778872B2. These two patents are
held by Google LLC., USA in connection with the Google AdWords
Program hereto. The Tribunal, set aside the order of the CIT(A), while
following the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Engineering
Analysis (supra). The Hon'ble Tribunal also relied on the decisions in
Yahoo (supra), Pinstorm (supra) and Right Florists (supra). (vi) Myntra Designs (supra): Myntra in this case, made payments
to Facebook Ireland Ltd., for online advertising. The AO held the said
payments to be royalty and in the alternate, as FTS. The CIT(A)
upheld the order of the AO. The Tribunal followed the decision in
Urban Ladder (supra), while setting aside the order of the CIT(A). (vii) Play Games (supra): Play games is engaged in the business
of providing a platform for online gaming. It had made payments to
Facebook Ireland Ltd. for online advertising. The AO and CIT(A) in
this case as well, held that payments to be taxable in India. The
Hon'ble Tribunal observed that Play Games did not get any right to
modify/ deal with the servers, which belonged to Facebook Ireland
Ltd., in any manner. It was also observed inter alia that the said
servers, which hosted online advertisements, were located outside
India and that Facebook Ireland Ltd. did not have a PE in India. In
that manner, the Tribunal set aside the order of the CIT(A) and held
the payments in question to be neither royalty, nor FTS. (viii) Matrimony.com (supra): Matrimony.com in this case, made
payments to Facebook Ireland Ltd. for online advertising. The AO in
this case as well, disallowed the said payments under section 40(a)(i) of the Act, which action was upheld by the CIT(A). The Tribunal
followed the decision in Urban Ladder (supra), while deleting the
said disallowance. (ix) ESPN Digital Media (supra): ESPN India in this case,
entered into a re-seller agreement with ESPN UK, for the resale of
online advertisement space. In terms thereof, ESPN India purchased
online advertisement space for re-sale to Indian advertisers. For this
purchase, it made payments to ESPN UK, which were characterised
as royalty by the AO. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO. The
Tribunal, in second appeal, set aside the order of the CIT(A), while
observing that ESPN India was merely making payment under the re-
seller agreement towards purchase of online advertisement space. It
was also observed that a website is not a tangible property and is 53 ITA No. 2845/Bang/2017 M/s. Google Ireland Ltd. certainly not a high-tech equipment. It was also observed that the
 reliance of the AO and CIT(A) on the decision in Verizon
 Communications Singapore Pte Ltd. v. ITO , (2014) 361 ITR 575
 (Madras High Court) was misplaced, since the same had been
 overruled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the decision in Engineering Analysis (supra). (x) Interactive Avenues (supra): Interactive Avenues is an
 internet advertising agency, which places online advertisements on
 behalf of its clients. The payments in this case were made to
 Facebook Ireland Ltd., which were disallowed by the AO and the
 CIT(A). The Tribunal observed that Interactive Avenues was
 utilising Google Search Engine amongst others, to buy online
 advertisement space on behalf of its clients. Be that as it may, the
 Tribunal set aside the order of the CIT(A) and held that the payments
 in question could not be characterised as royalty, while relying on the
 decisions in Urban Ladder (supra) and Play Games (supra 11. The contentions raised by the learned D.R. in her written submission
from para 4.6 onwards regarding receipt from other Indian customers has been
dealt with in above orders of the Tribunal and the order of the Tribunal in the
case of GIPL (supra). Therefore, we hold that the payment on online
advertisement is not liable to be taxed as Royalty in view of the aforesaid
judicial pronouncements. It is ordered accordingly. 12. In view of the aforesaid reasoning and judicial pronouncements cited
supra we allow ground No. 13 to 15. The other grounds raised are left open
and not adjudicated. It is ordered accordingly. 13. In the result, appeal filed by the assessee is partly allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 28th February, 2023.