SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How Ebay India Aided in Defrauding Me
DATE: 2016-01-27
SCORE: 306
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/42y0qo/how_ebay_india_aided_in_defrauding_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

*reposted after removing personal information*

I recently sold a used Iphone 4S on ebay India to a buyer from Surat.

The phone was immaculately described as I am very particular of giving full disclosures. The phone was nicely wrapped in bubble wrap and sent to the buyer promptly. A day or two after the buyer received the phone, he directly raised an “item not as described” claim on ebay stating that the mobile phone screen had spots (dead pixels) and wanted to return the item and have his money refunded.

I received a call from ebay subsequently, and was told the problem. I was in a bit of disbelief as the phone was working well when I had sent it and it was packed such that it would not suffer any damage in transit. I had sold many used phone previously and never had I seen anything like this. I expressed my concern to customer care representative about the possibility of the buyer causing intentional damage to the device just because he changed his mind, but I was told that “nobody does that”. (After reading more than a few online pages dedicated to the subject, I found out that MANY people do that). But, being an understanding seller, understanding the hopelessness of trying to argue with ebay, I decided to accept the return after all, not before shooting off an email to ebay criticizing their one sided bias towards buyer protection and ignoring seller protection.

Ebay had booked a return pickup through fedex initially (as reflected in the claims portal), but the buyer opted to send the parcel through his own courier and so booked a parcel through Trackon courier from Surat on 23/12/2015. As soon as the buyer entered the tracking details, ebay immediately initiated the refund to him, without a waiting time and without getting confirmation that I had indeed, received the parcel. To top it, they even gave him a coupon to reimburse his courier expenses. (As far as I can tell, even if the parcel would not have reached me, he would still have received his refund)

A parcel was delivered at my residence at Nagpur on 26/12/2015. Being a working professional I was not at home in the afternoon to receive the parcel personally, but it was accepted and kept unopened under safe custody. After coming home, I opened the parcel to discover my original packing inside the outer packing, in which the buyer had thoughtfully kept a bar of “Wheel Soap” instead of returning my Iphone. I am guessing that he did not return an empty box because the weight difference would have given him away and made it easy for ebay to accept that a fraud was committed. He clearly did not want to make it easy for me to get a refund from ebay.

By the time that I had received the parcel, I had received an email from ebay, confirming to the buyer that since he has provided the courier details of the return shipment, they are returning his payment which was in escrow (paisapay) till now AND providing him a coupon as reimbursement for his courier charges. Suspiciously, the buyer had deleted his account from ebay and his mobile was switched off, as I discovered later.

Since the lines on ebay were closed by the time I had reached home, I reported the issue on ebay by sending an email to ebay on 27/12/2015 along with photograph of the parcel received by me, with the bar of soap inside. The next day, I called customer care to double check that complaint is established. The representative took some time to locate my email, and then told me that he has escalated the issue and a link will emailed to me through which I can open a seller claim.

On 1/1/2016, I once again called customer care to report that no link was sent to me, and I was told that it is a very long process and it will take 20-25 days and a claims officer will call me. I immediately asked to speak to a supervisor, on which I was told that the supervisor may not be available because they are busy people. I asked to be put on hold till the supervisor was available. After being hold for some time, the same customer care rep said that a button will NOW be available in the claims portal which will allow me to open a seller claim (This option is not enabled by default). I had to request him to change the status to “Reopened” manually.

After filing the seller claim, I patiently waited for quite a few days to get a response on ebay. I did call ebay every 72 hours to get an update, and I was told that the complaint is under review. On 5/1/16 on finding an email address of a grievance officer, I emailed my complaint to him as well. (Till date, no response received).

On 14/1/16, I received a telephone call from ebay, asking me to submit the following documents to ebay : (1) Proof of original shipment (2) Invoice (3) Photograph of parcel received (4) A letter on the letterhead of the courier company which had delivered the parcel to me, accepting my complaint (Trackon Courier) which must be stamped and signed by them. I told the guy over the phone that this last bit is impossible, no courier company will take the trouble of issuing a letter to me, the best that I can hope to achieve, is to GIVE them a letter stating my complaint and get it signed and stamped by them as a token of acceptance. He said, "OK, do that". I also received an email stating the same immediately with an addition that I had 72 hours to reply to this email. This happened on a thursday evening.

The first 3 items were easy, but the courier company official refused to accept any letter, asking me to send the letter to the point of origin (Surat, Gujrat). The letter frankly contained a narration of the sequence of events that had happened and I had also mentioned that I am submitting this letter as compliance to ebay policy only. FInally, to comply with this demand, I sent the letter to the agency at the point of origin as well as the delivery point by Registered Post with acknowledgement, hoping that ebay will accept this as a sign of submission of complaint letter.

I attached scans of all 4 items as well as the acknowledgement of the Post office and combined them in a single PDF file and emailed the same to ebay on 16/1/16 and also uploaded the same on the claims portal.

On 18/1/16 (Monday) I received an email from ebay, that my claim has been rejected and closed as I have not submitted the documents required, within the time frame. I immediately called ebay customer care once again to inform them that an email has been sent by me on 16th, then why is the claim closed. I was told that the pdf file contains only the proof or original shipment. I asked the customer rep “have you scrolled down to the pages below?”….. The rep, informed me that he sees the required documents now and is escalating the problem to the claims team, and the case should be reopened in 72 hours. (They gave me 3 days, Friday Saturday and Sunday to get a reply from courier company!!!)

On 22/1/16 I called ebay to enquire, why my claim is not yet reopened. I was told that it has been escalated to the team and I should receive a revert in 48 hours. I also sent an email on 22/1/16 to ebay putting on record that I had indeed sent all documents within the timeline, I also attached the acknowledgment of delivery to Trackon Courier Nagpur, that I had received that day.

On 25/1/16. I called ebay and had to re-explain the whole story. First I was told that I have sent an invalid complaint letter, I should have a letter from the courier company on their letterhead. I insisted that the courier company had refused to accept my letter in the first place, getting a letter from them was out of the question. I asked to speak to a supervisor. After a long hold while the supervisor reviewed my case, I was told that since, there is no revert from the courier company regarding my complaint, they have rejected the case. Then, after more insistence, I was told that I only submitted the letter and postal proof within time line and the acknowledgement was sent by me after the timeline, so they cannot help me. I asked them to extend the timeline "afterall, are you aiming to satisfy your customer or are you only there to find ways to reject my claim, why are you counting Sunday in your 72 hours?" But, my request was not entertained, I then asked them to please state clearly over the phone whether the claim is finally rejected or not so that I can opt for legal recourse and police complaint if necessary. I was again put on hold immediately and after a long time the rep told me that he will call me back after the matter is reviewed. After an hour, I got a call from the same service rep, who informed me that after deliberation, his seniors have decided that the claim cannot be accepted as (1) I do not have a “valid” complaint letter, (by valid they mean on the letter head of the courier company) (2) At the time of receipt of the parcel, I should have opened it immediately in front of the courier delivery person and have it written on his delivery sheet that I have received a soap bar (As if anyone who orders something online has to stay at home 24x7 to receive their parcel personally). In the absence of both the above, may claim finally stands rejected and I am free to peruse any recourse if I think that ebay has violated its terms.

Note that every time I called ebay, I had to explain that I am the seller, I have reopened the claim because I received a bar of soap instead of an Iphone 4S, I had to insist that the claim was closed, first in favour of the buyer and then rejected but I am still trying to get it reopened. I had to give the previous service request number as a reference so that the rep would believe that I had a conversation with ebay before.

When you sell something on ebay India, the money is taken from the buyer in advance and kept in escrow, It is not released to you till the buyer confirms that he/she has received the goods or 15 days have lapsed from date of despatch, even after confirmation, the seller has to wait an average of 30 more days till the next “remittance cycle” to get his money. However, they do not wait for seller’s confirmation that he/she has received the goods back, before refunding the buyers money. The buyer can ship any empty box or a box to the wrong address and they still would refund his money in the present condition.

If Ebay India wants to refund the money to the buyer without verification, to provide a better shopping experience, then fine, but why at the expense of the seller? bear the risk yourself ebay. Why make it so damn difficult for the seller to get his money or goods back or even file a claim for that matter.

Ebay is running a faulty system at the expense of hapless buyers and sellers who stop using ebay when something like this happens, but since there are millions more of us….. they may not need to tighten their systems for a long-long time.

I will of course be filing a police complaint for fraud, a case in consumer court for unfair practices and Competition Commission of India for monopolistic and one sided terms. But.. My sincere recommendation to everyone is NOT TO BUY AND SELL ON EBAY INDIA.

*EDIT: You can see the complaint I filed with Competition Commission of India at 
https://www.scribd.com/doc/297770176/Complaint-To-Competition-Commission-of-India-against-Ebay-India
All personal information is redacted*