SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Hello r/india ! Please learn from my mistake. I hope I can save at-least one person from these fraudsters
DATE: 2020-12-06
SCORE: 279
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/k7oy2n/hello_rindia_please_learn_from_my_mistake_i_hope/

--- POST TEXT ---

Backstory: I used to work in Chennai and moved to Visakhapatnam during the lockdown. I vacated my house but I left few of my stuff at my friend's house so that I can pick them up later once this shit-fest of 2020 ends. My friend calls me up saying that he wants to vacate the house too just like me and asks me take a decision on what to do with my stuff at his place. I thought about various options and decided to bring back my stuff to Vizag because I wasn't sure when I'll be back to office. 

So I enquire about packers and movers and found out that agarwal packers and movers was hella costly but had a very reputable name. Then I spoke to dtdc packers and movers who quoted me a price of 80/kg which seemed reasonable at the time. We agreed on a time so that my friend would be there to oversee the packing and stuff. 

First red flag:
Couple of people came on 3rd Dec and packed everything and then came the first red flag. They said they forgot the weighing scale and that it's present at the godown. Both me and my friend were really busy with both of us having important meetings(production downtime) and I wasn't really thinking about how anything can go wrong with dtdc being a well know company. So they took all of my stuff without giving any receipt (first red flag)

Second red flag:
This realisation dawned on me that I have no receipt of them taking my stuff and then I called the guy who I was speaking to over the phone and he said, he will send me the bill/receipt in an hour. After an hour, I followed up he said, he's busy, he'll send it tomorrow by 11am. I followed up promptly he sends me a bill for 15.7k which was another red flag because the bill shouldn't have crossed 5k at max according to the rate we discussed. I refused to pay and asked for my stuff back, he said that that can't happen, they have left Chennai and is at a hub. The only option is for me to pay in full. I went back and forth with him and then we came to an aggreement that I was to pay and advance of 10k and that he would provide me a docket number which would allow me to track my stuff online. So I did.

Major Red flag#3: After I paid the amount at around 12 pm 4th dec, he verified he received the payment and that he'll initiate the process in 2-3 hours and send me the link. I called him up and he says, it will get done next day. I called him up again next day, he said it will get done by 1pm. I call him up again at 3pm, he says by EOD he will send the docket number. This was the last time I spoke to him. After that he didn't attend any of my calls. I dug a little deeper into this company as I was freaking out if I fell for a scam and lo and behold, so many further red flags came up: The website which I found the number: [http://www.dtdcpackersmovers.com/](http://www.dtdcpackersmovers.com/) didn't have a secure connection. None of the social media icons actually lead to any valid social media site. That's when I knew I fucked up big time.

Things I lost to this scam:
1. my TV.
2. a table
3. a chair
4. few trekking equipment
5. few clothes
6. kitchenware.
7. My peace of mind(most important of all!)
The total value of the goods is around 1L. I'm not sad that I lost all of these stuff but that I got so fooled so easily and that my trust in people in generally suffered because of this.

I have recorded all of my conversations with this guy and few other people I have spoken to. I have the pictures of the people who came to pick up my stuff and the registered number of pickup truck that they came with. I also have the receipt which has the office address : [receipt!](https://imgur.com/5nVZnNR)

I'm posting this because I'm feeling humiliated and don't want this to happen with anyone else. If anyone has any ideas on how I can get my stuff back I will owe you one _/\_

edit:

Suggestions I have gotten so far:
1. report to godaddy
2. report this to dtdc
3. report to police.

Will start working on 1 and 2 right away. Need help with 3. I don't know if directly going would help. I found a few contacts through which I'm trying. Will keep you guys updated