1. This revision petition under sections CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 1 of 31 -:2:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. 397/399 Cr.PC is filed by the revisionist against
 impugned order dated 08.01.2018 passed by Ld.
 MM-01(SW), Dwarka Courts, New Delhi whereby the
 Ld. M.M. has been pleased to dismiss the
 application under section 156(3) Cr.PC filed by the
 complainant (revisionist herein). 2. Briefly stated relevant facts for disposal of
 the revision petition are as under :- 3. The revision petition arises out of
 complaint case under Section 200 CrPC, titled as
 'Pratap Kr. Pattanaik v. SHO & Anr.' filed by the
 complainant(revisionist herein). Alongwith the
 complaint under section 200 Cr.PC, the complainant
 has filed an application under section 156 Cr. PC for
 registration of the FIR under sections 379 , 419 & 420 IPC and section 66C of the IT Act stating therein that
 the complainant is a practicing advocate and in
 November, 2016 had booked the ticket for the
 journey from Bhubaneshwar to Delhi and a sum of
 Rs.5050/- was paid for the said journey which was
 to be undertaken by the complainant on
 03.12.2016. It is further stated that on 03.12.2016,
 the complainant received a SMS on his mobile
 No.9899364167 that the ticket booking for the CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 2 of 31 -:3:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. journey on the said date has been cancelled and the
complainant was shocked and surprised to receive
the said message as he had not cancelled the
ticket. Thereafter, the complainant immediately
rushed to the counter of the Indigo Airlines at
Bhubaneshwar and on checking with the staff at the
counter of Airlines, it was told that his booking for
journey on 03.12.2016 has been cancelled. The
complainant arranged for fresh tickets and paid a
sum of Rs.5300/- for procuring fresh tickets from
Bhubaneshwar to Delhi. On 05.12.2016, the
complainant lodged a complainant with SHO, PS
Domestic Airport and on the basis of his complaint,
SHO, PS Domestic Airport asked the Indigo Airlines
to investigate the matter and after an internal
inquiry, Indigo Airlines informed that the air ticket
for the journey was cancelled by unknown person
by web anonymous containing IP Address
IP:120.56.59.132 at 00.52 hours on 03.12.2016
through internet. SHO forwarded the report to
Cyber Cell of Delhi Police and Cyber Cell carried out
investigation and submitted report to the SHO PS
Domestic Airport. The cyber cell had found that the
booking was cancelled through the phone bearing
No.27667002 which was relayed through internet CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 3 of 31 -:4:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. and the said phone connection was in the name of
 one Shri Naba Kishore Ray, who was not alive on
 03.12.2016 and the phone was being used by D. P.
 Ray(respondent No.2) who is son of late Shri Naba
 Kishore Day. It is further stated in the complaint
 that the respondent no.2 has fraudulently used
 password of the complainant for the purpose of
 changing his identity to be that of the complainant
 and has dishonestly represented himself to be the
 complainant. By way of application under section
 156 (3) Cr. PC, the complainant prayed for issuance
 of direction to SHO, PS:Domestic Airport for
 registration of FIR under sections 379 , 419 , 420 IPC &
 66C of the IT Act, 2000 against the accused and to
 investigate the matter. 4. Vide order dated 26.08.2017, Ld. Trial
 Court directed for calling the Status Report from the
 concerned Police Station. As per order dated
 10.10.2017 of the Ld. Trial Court, Status Report was
 filed. After hearing the arguments of the
 complainant, vide order dated 08.01.2018 Ld. Trial
 court was pleased to dismiss the application under
 section 156 (3) Cr. PC filed by the complainant
 (revisionist herein) and directed for taking up the CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 4 of 31 -:5:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. case for pre-summoning evidence. Aggrieved by
 the order dated 08.01.2018, the complainant
 (revisionist herein) has filed the present revision
 petition. 5. I have heard the Ld. Counsel for the
 revisionist and perused record. 6. The contention of the Ld. Counsel for the
 revisionist is that the complainant(revisionist
 herein) had booked his ticket for air travel from
 Bhubaneshwar to Delhi on 21.11.2016 and
 accused(respondent No.2 herein) came to know
 about the booking of the ticket on the same day but
 he cancelled the ticket on the date of the journey
 which was mala fide intention on the part of the
 respondent no.2. Ld. Counsel for the revisionist has
 further contended that in the status report filed
 before the Ld. Trial Court, IO has arrived at the
 conclusion that no inducement of any sort was ever
 made by suspect Durga Prasad Ray(respondent
 No.2) to the complainant and offence of cheating
 was not made out and it is contended by the
 Ld.Counsel for the revisionist that conclusion arrived
 by the IO is not correct. Ld. Counsel for revisionist CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 5 of 31 -:6:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. has contended that the evidence required for
 proving is not within the reach of the
 complainant(revisionist herein) and on that account
 the impugned order is liable to be set aside. Ld.
 Counsel for the revisionist has further contended
 that the section 66C of the IT Act is attracted as
 respondent no.2 had misused the identification of
 the complainant. 7. The complainant(revisionist herein) has filed
 the present revision petition thereby challenging the
 order dated 08.01.2018 whereby application under section 156(3) Cr.PC was dismissed by the Ld. Trial
 Court. 8. Section 156 IPC reads as: (2)   No proceeding of a police officer in any such CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 6 of 31 -:7:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. case shall at any stage be called in question on the
 ground that the case was one which such officer was
 not empowered under this section to investigate.
 (3)   Any Magistrate empowered under section 190 may   order   such   an   investigation   as   above­
 mentioned. 9. Section 156(3) of the Code aims at
 curtailing and controlling the arbitrariness on the part of
 the police authorities in the matter of registration of
 FIRs and taking up investigations, even in those cases
 where the same are warranted. 10. Even though Section 156 Cr.P.C. empowers
 the Magistrate to issue directions to the police to
 register the FIR but this provision cannot be permitted
 to be misused by the complainant and the Magistrate is
 to apply his mind to the facts of each case before
 passing orders under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C. and not to
 act in a mechanical manner. 11. Section 190 Cr. PC. reads as: sub­section (2), may take cognizance of any offence-- (a) upon receiving a complaint of  facts which
 constitute such offence; (b)  upon a police report of such facts; (c)  upon Information received from any  person
 other than a police officer, or upon his own 
 knowledge,   that   such     offence     has   been  
 committed. (2) The Chief Judicial Magistrate may empower any
 Magistrate   of   the   second   class   to   take   cognizance
 under sub­section(1) of such offences as are within his
 competence to inquire into or try. 12. In Lalita Kumari v. Govt. of UP & Ors. 92014) 2 SCC 1, Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has
 been pleased to observe that : unsustainable. Indeed, even if a Magistrate
 does not pass a direction to register a case,
 still in view of the provisions of Section 156(1) of the Code which empowers the police to
 investigate into a cognizable case and the
 Rules framed under the Indian Police Act,
 1861 it (the police) is duty-bound to formally
 register a case and then investigate into the
 same. The provisions of the Code, therefore,
 do not in any way stand in the way of a
 Magistrate to direct the police to register a
 case at the police station and then
 investigate into the same. In our opinion
 when an order for investigation under Section
 156(3) of the Code is to be made the proper
 direction to the police would be to register a
 case at the police station treating the
 complaint as the first information report and
 investigate into the same. ....................................
 ....................................
 .................................... 111) In view of the aforesaid discussion, we
 hold: discloses commission of a cognizable offence
 and no preliminary inquiry is permissible in
 such a situation. ii) If the information received does not
 disclose a cognizable offence but indicates
 the necessity for an inquiry, a preliminary
 inquiry may be conducted only to ascertain
 whether cognizable offence is disclosed or
 not. iii) If the inquiry discloses the commission of
 a cognizable offence, the FIR must be
 registered. In cases where preliminary inquiry
 ends in closing the complaint, a copy of the
 entry of such closure must be supplied to the
 first informant forthwith and not later than
 one week. It must disclose reasons in brief for
 closing the complaint and not proceeding
 further. iv) The police officer cannot avoid his duty of
 registering offence if cognizable offence is
 disclosed. Action must be taken against erring
 officers who do not register the FIR if
 information received by him discloses a
 cognizable offence. v) The scope of preliminary inquiry is not to
 verify the veracity or otherwise of the
 information received but only to ascertain CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 10 of 31 -:11:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. whether the information reveals any
 cognizable offence. vi) As to what type and in which cases
 preliminary inquiry is to be conducted will
 depend on the facts and circumstances of
 each case. The category of cases in which
 preliminary inquiry may be made are as
 under: The aforesaid are only illustrations and not
 exhaustive of all conditions which may
 warrant preliminary inquiry. vii) While ensuring and protecting the rights
 of the accused and the complainant, a
 preliminary inquiry should be made time
 bound and in any case it should not exceed 7
 days. The fact of such delay and the causes
 of it must be reflected in the General Diary
 entry. -:12:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. viii) Since the General Diary/Station
 Diary/Daily Diary is the record of all
 information received in a police station, we
 direct that all information relating to
 cognizable offences, whether resulting in
 registration of FIR or leading to an inquiry,
 must be mandatorily and meticulously
 reflected in the said Diary and the decision to
 conduct a preliminary inquiry must also be
 reflected, as mentioned above. 13. In Ramdev Food Products Private
 Limited v. State of Gujarat , (2015) 6 Supreme
 Court Cases 439, Hon'ble Supreme Court was pleased
 to hold: before proceeding further. The Magistrate was
 not satisfied from the material available that
 any cognizable offence had been committed
 and he rightly decided to conduct further
 enquiry under Section 202 . Having regard to
 the limited nature of inquiry under Section
 202 which option had been rightly chosen by
 the Magistrate, direction to the police to
 investigate and give a report was limited by
 the very purpose for which the limited inquiry
 was to be held, as against procedure for
 investigation in cases not covered under Section 202 of the Code. The purpose was to
 enable the Magistrate to decide whether
 there was ground to proceed further. The
 Magistrate having taken cognizance of the
 offence and the police having not registered a
 criminal case nor the Magistrate having
 directed registration of criminal case,
 procedure and power of the police in the
 matter are different and in such a situation
 police did not have the power to arrest without
 permission of the Magistrate as was the view
 of the Gujarat and other High Courts.
 XXXXXXXXXXXX
 XXXXXXXXXXXX 20. It has been held, for the same reasons, CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 13 of 31 -:14:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. that direction by the Magistrate for
 investigation under Section 156(3) cannot be
 given mechanically. In Anil Kumar v. M.K.
 Aiyappa , it was observed: (SCC p.711 para 11)
 "11. The scope of Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C.
 came up for consideration before this Court in
 several cases. This Court in Maksud Saiyed
 case examined the requirement of the
 application of mind by the Magistrate before
 exercising jurisdiction under Section 156(3) and held that where jurisdiction is exercised
 on a complaint filed in terms of Section 156(3) or Section 200 CrPC, the Magistrate is required
 to apply his mind, in such a case, the Special
 Judge/Magistrate cannot refer the matter
 under Section 156(3) against a public servant
 without a valid sanction order. The application
 of mind by the Magistrate should be reflected
 in the order. The mere statement that he has
 gone through the complaint, documents and
 heard the complainant, as such, as reflected in
 the order, will not be sufficient . After going
 through the complaint, documents and
 hearing the complainant, what weighed with
 the Magistrate to order investigation under
 Section 156(3) CrPC , should be reflected in
 the order, though a detailed expression of his CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 14 of 31 -:15:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. views is neither required nor warranted. We
 have already extracted the order passed by
 the learned Special Judge which , in our view,
 has stated no reasons for ordering
 investigation." The above observations apply to category of
 cases mentioned in para 120.6 in Lalilta
 Kumari. Xxxxxxxxxx
 xxxxxxxxxx 22. Thus, we answer the first question by
 holding that: process are cases where the Magistrate has
 yet to determine "existence of sufficient
 ground to proceed". Category of cases
 falling under para 120.6 in Lalita Kumari
 may fall under Section 202 . 22.3 Subject to these broad guidelines
 available from the scheme of the Code,
 exercise of discretion by the Magistrate is
 guided by interest of justice from case to
 case. Xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxx 32. We now come to the last question
 whether in the present case the Magistrate
 ought to have proceeded under Section
 156(3) instead of Section 202 . Our answer is
 in the negative. The Magistrate has given
 reasons, which have been upheld by the
 High Court. The case has been held to be
 primarily of civil nature. The accused is
 alleged to have forged partnership. Whether
 such forgery actually took place, whether it
 caused any loss to the complainant and
 whether there is the requisite mens rea are
 the questions which are yet to be
 determined. The Magistrate has not found
 clear material to proceed against the CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 16 of 31 -:17:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. accused. Even a case for summoning has
 not yet been found. While a transaction
 giving rise to cause of action for a civil
 action may also involve a crime in which
 case resort to criminal proceedings may be
 justified, there is judicially acknowledged
 tendency in the commercial world to give
 colour of a criminal case to a purely
 commercial transaction. This Court has
 cautioned against such abuse. 33. In Indian Oil Corpn v. NEPC India
 Ltd. , it was observed: (SCC pp. 748-
 49,para 13)
 "13. While on this issue, it is necessary to
 take notice of a growing tendency in
 business circles to convert purely civil
 disputes into criminal cases. This is
 obviously on account of a prevalent
 impression that civil law remedies are time
 consuming and do not adequately protect
 the interests of lenders/creditors. Such a
 tendency is seen in several family disputes
 also, leading to irretrievable breakdown of
 marriages/families. There is also an
 impression that if a person could somehow
 be entangled in a criminal prosecution,
 there is a likelihood of imminent settlement. -:18:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. Any effort to settle civil disputes and claims,
 which do not involve any criminal offence,
 by applying pressure through criminal
 prosecution should be deprecated and
 discouraged. In G. Sagar Suri v. State of UP this Court observed:(SCC p.643,para8)
 '8. ......It is to be seen if a matter, which is
 essentially of a civil nature, has been given
 a cloak of criminal offence. Criminal
 proceedings are not a short cut of other
 remedies available in law. Before issuing
 process a criminal court has to exercise a
 great deal of caution. For the accused it is a
 serious matter. This Court has laid certain
 principles on the basis of which the High
 Court is to exercise its jurisdiction under
 Section 482 of the Code. Jurisdiction under
 this section has to be exercised to prevent
 abuse of the process of any court or
 otherwise to secure the ends of justice." 34. In Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. Judicial
 Magistrate , it was observed: ( SCC p.
 760, para 28)
 "28. Summoning of an accused in a criminal
 case is a serious matter. Criminal law cannot
 be set into motion as a matter of course. It is
 not that the complainant has to bring only CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 18 of 31 -:19:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. two witnesses to support his allegations in
 the complaint to have the criminal law set
 into motion. The order of the Magistrate
 summoning the accused must reflect that he
 has applied his mind to the facts of the case
 and the law applicable thereto. He has to
 examine the nature of allegations made in
 the complaint and the evidence both oral
 and documentary in support thereof and
 would that be sufficient for the complainant
 to succeed in bringing charge home to the
 accused. It is not that the Magistrate is a
 silent spectator at the time of recording of
 preliminary evidence before summoning of
 the accused. The Magistrate has to carefully
 scrutinise the evidence brought on record
 and may even himself put questions to the
 complainant and his witnesses to elicit
 answers to find out the truthfulness of the
 allegations or otherwise and then examine
 if any offence is prima facie committed by
 all or any of the accused." 14. In M/s Skipper Beverages Pvt. Ltd., Vs.
 State , 2001 IV AD Delhi 625, Hon'ble High Court
 of Delhi was pleased to hold: empowers a Magistrate to direct the police to
 register a case and initiate investigations but
 this power has to be exercised judiciously on
 proper grounds and not in a mechanical
 manner. In those cases where the allegations
 are not very serious and the complainant
 himself is in possession of evidence to prove
 his allegations there should be no need to pass
 orders under Section 156(3) of the Code. The
 discretion ought to be exercised after proper
 application of mind and only in those cases
 where the Magistrate is of the view that the
 nature of the allegations is such that the
 complainant himself may not be in a position
 to collect and produce evidence before the
 Court and interests of justice demand that the
 police should step in to held the complainant.
 The police assistance can be taken by a
 Magistrate even Under Section 202(1) of the
 Code after taking cognizance and proceeding
 with the complaint under Chapter XV of the
 Code as held by Apex Court in 20001 (1)
 Supreme Page 129 titled " Suresh Chand Jain
 Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors ." 8. In case Arvindbhai Rajivbhai Patel Vs.
 Dhirubhai Sambhubhai reported in 1998(1)
 Crimes 351, an Hon'ble Judge of Gujarat High CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 20 of 31 -:21:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. Court took strong exception to the growing
 tendency of asking the police to investigate
 cases under Section 156(3) of the Code and
 advised the Magistrates not to pass orders
 mechanically. It was held that Magistrates
 should act under Section 156(3) of the Code
 only in those cases where the assistance of
 the police is essentially required and the
 Magistrate is of the considered view that the
 complainant on his own may not be in a
 position to collect and produce evidence in
 support of the accusations. 9. In the case in hand the allegations in
 regard to the theft of the cheque could be
 proved by oral or other evidence. The
 allegations regarding the forging of the cheque
 by typing out certain portions therein could
 also be proved by summoning the original
 cheque from the bankers and leading required
 evidence. Therefore, it was not at all a case
 where the police assistance was required for
 breaking the case and discovering some
 evidence which the complainant was unable to
 collect of his own. This Court, therefore, is of
 the considered view that learned Trial Judge
 was justified in declining the request of the
 complainant to issue directions to Police under CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 21 of 31 -:22:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. Section 156(3) of the code as prayed. 15. The case of the complainant is that in
 November, 2016, he had booked air ticket for journey
 from Bbubaneshwar to Delhi by Indigo Airlines by
 paying a sum of Rs.5050/- and at 7:00am on 03.12.2016
 he received a message on his mobile No.9899364167
 that his ticket booking for the journey from
 Bhubaneshwar to Delhi has been cancelled and he
 made the complaint to police and after investigation, it
 came to be known that booking was cancelled through
 phone bearing no.27667002 which is in the name of Shri
 Naba Kishore Ray who has since expired and his son D.P.
 Ray was using the said phone. 16. The case of the complainant is that the said
 D. P. Ray has fraudulently used the password of the
 complainant for the purpose of cancellation of air-ticket
 booked by the complainant for travel from
 Bhubaneshwar to Delhi. The complainant has filed on
 record a copy of the air-ticket booked on 21.11.2016 by
 the Indigo Airlines for travel from Bhubaneshwar to
 Delhi and in the said air-ticket, for the purpose of
 contact information, the complainant has furnished the
 phone No. as 9899364167 and Email ID as [email protected] . The case of the complainant
 is that he received information regarding cancellation of CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 22 of 31 -:23:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. ticket on 03.12.2016 by SMS on the said mobile number
i.e. 9899364167 as furnished in the contact information.
The complainant had furnished the said mobile number
as his contact number and on that account, the Indigo
Airlines had informed him by SMS on the said number so
furnished by the complainant. However, while booking
the air-ticket, the complainant had furnished the email
ID for the purpose of contacting him as [email protected] . The complainant has not
pleaded that the email ID i.e. [email protected] has been created by him and the said email ID belongs
to him and was being used by him. In the Status Report
dated 10.10.2017 filed by police before the Ld. Trial
Court, it is mentioned that during the course of inquiry,
Indigo Airlines was approached to find out as to who had
cancelled the air-ticket and IP Address through which
the ticket was cancelled and through the said IP
address, it was revealed that the said IP Address was
allocated to telephone No.27667002 registered in the
name of Shri Ray Naba Kishore and it was established
that Shri Durga Prasad Ray son of Shri Ray Naba Kishore
has cancelled the ticket and said Durga Prasad Ray was
examined who stated that he received the ticket on his
email ID i.e. [email protected] from the Indigo
Airlines which was for travel from Bhubaneshwar to
Delhi and he was surprised to receive the said ticket as
he has not booked the said ticket and he enquired from CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 23 of 31 -:24:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. Indigo Customer Care and he was told that this ticket
 was booked using old currency notes and the matter
 remained under conversation with Indigo Airlines for 10
 days and finally he cancelled the ticket in the
 intervening night of 2nd and 3rd December, 2016 fearing
 that his email ID may not misused. 17. The Status Report dated 10.10.2017 filed by
 the police before the Ld. Trial Court, reveals that the air-
 ticket was booked by the complainant on 21.11.2016
 i.e. during the period of demonetization, by using the
 old currency notes which were permitted during the said
 period to be used to buy the air-ticket and while booking
 the air-ticket, the complainant used the email ID of DP
 Ray (respondent no.2 herein). As the complainant had
 furnished the email ID as [email protected] ., the
 Indigo Airlines sent the copy of the air-ticket on the
 email ID of [email protected] , which was
 furnished by the complainant while booking his air-
 ticket. The complainant has not pleaded that email ID
 i.e. [email protected] which was furnished by
 him as his contact information while booking the air-
 ticket belongs to him and the same was being used by
 him. 18. In the report dated 10.10.2017, the
 Investigation Officer has observed : 19. The complaint under section 200 Cr. PC has
 been filed by the complainant for the offences under sections 379 / 419 / 420 IPC & section 66C of the IT Act,
 2000. 20. Section 378 reads as under: Explanation 1­ A thing so long as it is attached to the
 earth, not being movable property, is not the subject
 of theft; but it becomes capable of being the subject CR No: 67/2018                                                                            Page No. 25 of 31 -:26:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. of theft as soon as it is severed from the earth.
 Explanation 2­  A moving effected by the same act
 which   affects   the   severance   may   be   a   theft.
 Explanation 3­ A person is said to cause a thing to
 move   by   removing   an   obstacle   which   prevented   it
 from moving or by separating it from any other thing,
 as well as by actually moving it. Explanation 4­  A person, who by any means causes
 an animal to move, is said to move that animal, and to
 move   everything   which,   in   consequence   of   the
 motion   so   caused,   is   moved   by   that   animal.
 Explanation   5­  The   consent   mentioned   in   the
 definition   may   be   express   or   implied,   and   may   be
 given either by the person in possession, or by any
 person   having   for   that   purpose   authority   either
 express or implied. 21. Section 379 reads as under: 22. Section 415 reads as under: causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to that
 person in body, mind, reputation or property, is said to
 "cheat". Explanation ­    A dishonest concealment of facts is a
 deception within the meaning of this section. 23. Section 416 reads as under: Explanation -  The offence is committed whether the
 individual personated is a real or imaginary person. 24. Section 419 reads as under: 25.  Section 420 reads as under: any person, or to make, alter or destroy the whole or
 any part of a valuable security, or anything which is
 signed   or   sealed,   and   which   is   capable   of   being
 converted into a valuable security, shall be punished
 with   imprisonment   of   either   description   for   a   term
 which may extend to seven years, and shall also be
 liable to fine. 26. As per case of the complainant, the
 respondent no. 2 came to be known about the booking
 of air-ticket only on the basis of Email ID of the
 respondent no.2 provided by the complainant while
 booking the air-ticket. In the circumstances, it cannot
 be said that the respondent No.2 intending to take any
 moveable property out of the possession of the
 complainant dishonestly moved the same without his
 consent or that the respondent no.2 represented his
 identity as the complainant in order to dishonestly
 cause wrongful loss to any person and wrongful gain to
 himself. This is not the case of the complainant that
 while cancelling the ticket, the respondent no.2 made
 request for payment of the remaining amount after
 cancellation of ticket in order to cause wrongful gain to
 himself or that he had dishonest intention to cause
 wrongful gain to himself. -:29:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. 27. Section 66C of The Information Technology
 Act, 2000 reads as under: 28. As per the case of the complainant, the Email
 ID i.e. [email protected] was not created by him
 and the said Email ID belongs to respondent No.2. and
 the unique identification feature i.e. Email ID
 ' [email protected] ' is owned by the respondent
 No.2. Hence, it cannot be said that respondent no.2 in
 any manner fraudulently or dishonestly made use of the
 same. Rather, it is the complainant, who has used the
 unique identification feature of the respondent no.2 i.e.
 Email ID ' [email protected] '. In the Status
 Report dated 10.10.2017, IO has observed that : 29. In the impugned order dated 08.01.2018, Ld.
 MM-01(SW), District Court Dwarka, New Delhi has
 arrived at conclusion that investigation by police in this
 case is not required as complainant(revisionist herein) is
 in reach of the evidence which he can very well prove in
 the court by leading Pre-summoning evidence. 30. Looking at the nature of allegations as made
 in the complaint filed before Ld. Trial Court, I am of the
 view that judicial discretion has been exercised by Ld.
 Trial court properly and in accordance with provisions of
 law. I find no infirmity or illegality in the impugned
 order dated 08.01.2018. The revision petition is devoid
 of merits and same is dismissed. -:31:-               Pratap Kr. Pattanaik   v.  SHO & Anr. 31. TCR be sent back to the court concerned along
 with copy of this judgment. Revision file be consigned to Record Room. Announced in the open Court (HARISH DUDANI)
 today on 15.03.2018 Special Judge (PC Act)(CBI)-1
 District Courts(SW), Dwarka
 New Delhi.