SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My family was a part of the Asaram cult following
DATE: 2018-04-25
SCORE: 118
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8eum09/my_family_was_a_part_of_the_asaram_cult_following/

--- POST TEXT ---

So this is in reference to that indian guru (Asaram) that got life sentence for raping minors. 

I'm in no way religious but my parents believe in spiritual stuff. A decade back they were devotees of this old guru that had a large following (still does while being in prison) due to my grandmother's influence on my mother. Things like listening to his broadcasts on TV, memorizing large poems dedicated to him,, buying his merch disguised as medicine and clothes were the norm when I was a kid. Back then, i didnt understand the following, i was just brought up into it. When i used to see him closer, i actually felt blessed, as i was told i was supposed to feel. Every happy coincidence or success was attributed to him. I remember the times where my parents used to travel hours just to catch a glimpse of him giving a sermon from afar or wait months to get on a list of thousands who wanted to meet him for 5 seconds or touch his slippers. Eventually, we moved abroad and lost touch with his tours and his presence, but my parents still maintain some small rituals that he made his followers do. I identify as an atheist-agnostic, and had openly started calling bullshit on his brand of spiritualism as a young teenager, when my parents were still into him. 

In 2013, Asaram was convicted of raping girls; I think there are something like 9 accusers along with a bunch of murders. Now we were no longer a follower of his, but it was very shocking for us to hear. We generally saw this as a witch-hunt by his enemies in political power. Over time, when India's political landscape did a 180 with BJP in power, his influence on my family reduced greatly and so did my parents' belief in him. 

Today as I read comments on news websites about "ugh, yet another guru with loads of money and sexual crimes.." i feel a little detached from the conversation. All this time my justification for not falling in line with my parents' rituals was that it's all bullshit and nothing matters in the end and this country's middle class is fucked if more of these fake gurus in the name of kindness, compassion and Hinduism keep fueling the herd-mentality. But now .. *I* am that. I am the follower who never saw through the antics. I am the follower who was the cultist. I'm the dumb idiot who was once gullible. The feeling is.. interesting. Granted I was a child, but this has helped me sympathise a little with those who were brought up in a cult or follow one. Everything against them is a conspiracy, they're your one true saviour. They make you feel better about yourself, maybe give you a purpose. What people in a cult don't have is access to repeated, calm and logical disagreement over their leader. All matters are emotional. There are schedules and rallies and jargon to keep you hooked and occupied. You're in the system, you can't understand it's extent. I feel like I'm in a weird place, because I can't relate with personality cults still (like for Trump in the US), and yet I was involuntarily a part of one. 

Just be with yourself man,