Heard Sri Vinod Kumar Pandey, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Vipul Gupta, learned AGA, Sri Ramakar Shukla, learned counsel for the informant. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant with the prayer to enlarge him on bail in Case Crime No. 489 of 2021, under Section 302 IPC, Police Station Kadipur, District Sultanpur. The aforesaid case has been registered on the basis of an FIR lodged on 20.09.2021 at 18:07 hrs stating that the informant's nephew Ayush Shukla alias Anshu had gone away from his home at about 10:30 hrs after telling his mother that someone was calling him. At about 12:00 hrs some children saw the dead body of the informant's nephew in his grove and gave information to the deceased's mother, who in turn told it to the informant. Upon receiving the information, the informant went and saw that the dead body of his nephew was lying inside tubewell house constructed in his grove. The postmortem examination report of the dead body mentions numerous fractures and lacerated wounds and the deceased died because of hemorrhage and shock due to the antemoretm injuries caused by hard heavy blunt object and the chest cavity had been punctured by a pointed long weapon. In the statement of the informant, he reiterated the FIR version and in his additional statement, he stated that pieces of flesh and blood was scattered all around the place of incidence and all the walls of the tubewell room were having blood stains. He further stated that upon seeing the scene of occurrence it appears that the incident had been caused by several persons. In the statement of the deceased's mother, she stated the applicant had made a phone call to her son on 20.09.20221 at about 10:12 hrs and thereafter her son went away telling her that he would return in 10 minutes. At about 12:45 hrs, a child informed her that some person had been killed and thrown in her grove. She stated that her son was a person of strong built and he could not have been killed by the applicant alone. A similar statement was given by the deceased's father also. During investigation, one Saurabh Shukla alias Bhure stated on 23.09.2021 that he had seen the deceased talking to the applicant at about 10:15 hrs. Another person Raj Kumar Shukla stated that he had seen the applicant going with the deceased at about 10:30 hrs on 10.09.2021. The learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that both the aforesaid persons are relatives of the deceased. A copy of the relevant extract of the case diary has been annexed with the affidavit filed in support of the bail application, it is recorded in the case diary that the applicant was apprehended from a place near Government Pump on Shahganj Road on the basis of information received from a mukhbir, while a police party was involved in night patrolling and it is further stated that when he was interrogated strictly, he confessed that he had killed the deceased by hitting on his head with a hammer and when the victim fell down, he made repetitive blows on his head with a hammer. When the deceased stopped moving, he made repetitive blows on his neck with a screwdriver. The reason for giving effect to the incident had been told by the applicant to be that the deceased was making illicit relations with him, he had procured a nude video of the applicant and he used to blackmail him by using the said videograph. The deceased prepared an obscene video of the applicant while he had forced the applicant to perform oral sex with him. The applicant further stated that the deceased used to make obscene comments regarding his mother and some further very serious and obscene allegations have been levelled by the applicant against the deceased. In his confessional statement, the applicant stated that he had kept the hammer and the screwdriver used in the incident in some bushes near the wall of the tubewell room and had hidden his clothes near a tree and both were recovered on the pointing out of the applicant. In the rejoinder affidavit it has been stated that the applicant is a student of B.Sc. II year and his continued incarceration is ruining his future. Although the police claimed to have arrested the applicant on the basis of the information received from a mukhbir, from a place near the Government Pump on Shahganj Road, during night patrolling on 23.09.2021, the applicant's father had sent an application to the Inspector General of Police, Lucknow at 05.36 p.m. on 20.09.2021 stating that some persons of Police Station Kadipur had taken away his son from his house without informing any reason and he was being detained in the police station and the applicant's father apprehended that the police was conspiring to entangle his son in some case. This application was sent to the Inspector General of Police through fax on 05:36 hrs on 23.09.2021. Although the State has filed a counter affidavit, no reply has been given to this averment made in the affidavit filed in support of the bail application. The learned counsel for the informant has vehemently opposed the bail application and he had sated that the fact that the FIR was lodged against unknown person indicates that there was no motive to implicate the applicant falsely. He stated that the applicant has been implicated when sufficient material came to light in the shape of the statement of the persons who had last seen the applicant with the deceased and after the police examined his call detail record, which showed that the applicant had last talked to the deceased on his phone. He has further stated that the mobile phone of the applicant was recovered from his house on the pointing out of the applicant's mother. The learned counsel for the informant has submitted that although it is a case of circumstantial evidence, the chain of circumstances indicating involvement of the applicant in causing the incident, is complete and, therefore, keeping in view the heinous nature of the offence the applicant is not entitled to be released on bail. On 22.09.2022, this Court had passed following order:- The learned counsel for the applicant has stated that in spite of the aforesaid order, till date only the informant's examination and cross examination has been completed and examination-in-chief of PW-2 Saurabh Shukla is still going on. Having considered the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, what prima facie appears at this stage is that the applicant had not been named in the FIR; that several witnesses have stated that the deceased was a person of strong built and the situation at the crime scene indicates that the incident could not have been given effect to by the applicant alone; that the police claimed to have arrested the applicant from a public place while the police party was engaged in night patrolling on 23.09.2021, the applicant's father sent a fax message to the Inspector General of Police on 05:36 hrs on 20.09.2021 stating that the police had taken up the applicant from his house on 20.09.2021 without assigning any reason and he was being detained in the police station and the applicant's father apprehended that the police was conspiring to entangle his son in some offence, which fact has not been denied in the counter affidavit, coupled with the fact that the applicant is a young man aged about 20 years, who is a student of B.Sc. II year and although the applicant is languishing in jail since 29.04.2021, even all the witnesses of fact have not been examined till date in spite of the direction issued by this Court in the order dated 20.09.2022 for recording evidence of prosecution witnesses within a maximum period of three months, coupled with the fact that the applicant is young man of 20 years, studying in B.Sc. II year, having no criminal history and is continuing incarceration without him having been guilty will ruin his future, I am of the view that the applicant is entitled to be released on bail. Accordingly, this bail application is allowed. Let the applicant Anubhav Sharma be released on bail in Case Crime No. 489 of 2021, under Section 302 IPC, Police Station Kadipur, District Sultanpur on furnishing a bail bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of magistrate/court concerned, subject to following conditions:- In case of breach of any of the above conditions, the prosecution shall be at liberty to move bail cancellation application before this Court. It is further observed that the trial court will proceed with the trial expeditiously, without giving any unnecessary adjournment to any of the parties and shall make every endeavour to conclude the same expeditiously. Order Date :- 10.4.2023
 
Pradeep/-