Amazon took out an ad in the Economic Times to allege that the transfer of Future Retail’s assets is being carried out clandestinely by committing fraud on courts, tribunals, and statutory bodies, according to an ET report .

Read: Everything You Need To Know About The Amazon Vs Reliance And Future Retail Case

Facebook allowed a large number of ghost and surrogate advertisers to secretly fund the BJP’s election campaigns in India and boost the ruling party’s visibility, according to an Al Jazeera report. The analysis covered advertisements posted on the  platform spanning 22 months and ten elections.

Ukraine’s urban infrastructure has come under attack since Russia invaded the country on February 24 but the internet has stayed working in these areas, according to an Entrackr report.

Google has committed $3 million over the next five years to the Data Transfer Project, as well as hundreds of hours of its engineers’ labour. According to Google , the fresh funds will be used to create open-source frameworks that enable more forms of data transfer and allow more firms and organisations to join the project.

EY India forensic team is currently carrying out a detailed investigation into the finances of influencer-led social commerce startup Trell and has submitted an interim report, according to an ET report . The consulting firm is looking into alleged related party transactions by its founders and other financial irregularities.

BharatPe announced gold loans for its merchant partners on March 14, with a strong focus on business. With that, the firm entered the secured loan sector, partnering with RBI-approved NBFCs (non-banking financial organisations) to offer gold loans up to Rs 20 lakh.

Ukrainian hackers and security researchers claim that cybersecurity company, HackerOne is delaying their bug bounty payouts, which may amount to thousands of dollars, and is refusing to allow them to withdraw their winnings. As per research , HackerOne accounts are withholding reimbursements due to economic sanctions and export controls imposed after Russia invaded Ukraine in late February, but the measures do not apply to them.

The European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee voted 30-23 on March 14 to keep the cryptocurrency bitcoin provision out of a draft of the Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA) framework , the EU’s comprehensive regulation package for controlling digital assets.

SoftBank managing partner Munish Varma is planning to leave the boards of Paytm parent One97 communication and PB Fintech less than six months after the businesses went public in India, sources told Moneycontrol. Both company’s stocks have been hammered in recent months, so the move seems timely, the report added.

The Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association has filed a complaint with the Bombay High Court against restaurants that were “illegally” using food delivery apps such as Swiggy, Zomato, WeFast, ShadowFax, Thirsty Crow, and Dunzo. The petition was filed under Article 226 of the Indian Constitution.

Excellent Publicity, an Ahmedabad-based adtech company, has secured $500,000 from Marquee Investors, according to a press release. The company intends to expand its serviceable territory to all Indian metro areas, invest in programmatic advertising and data analytics technologies as well as acquire an ad agency approved by the Indian Newspaper Society (INS).

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event