1. Rule. Service of rule is waived by Shri J. V. Bhairavia, learned Advocate for the respondent. 1.1 Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (through its Divisional Controller), Ahmedabad - petitioner has filed this petition under Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India challenging the judgment and award dated 20th May, 1999, passed by the learned Presiding Officer, Labour Court, Junagadh in Reference (L.C.J.) No. 8 of 1995 whereby the learned Judge has set aside the order of dismissal of the respondent-Amirkhan Jamiyatkhan Aagvar by the petitioner-Corporation vide its order dated 22-10-1993 and directed the Corporation to reinstate the respondent on the post of a helper or a peon with continuity of service with all consequential benefits with .35% back wages. 2. The facts giving rise to this petition are as under : 3.1 The learned Counsel for the petitioner-Corporation submitted that the Labour Court ought to have consider that in past 19 defaults committed by the respondent. It is further submitted that though respondent was given an opportunity to improve his conduct the has not improved, and therefore, the Labour Court has erred in awarding reinstatement with back wages to the respondent. 3.2 The learned Advocate for the petitioner further submitted that the Labour Court ought to have seen lightly to the charges levelled and the punishment imposed by the appropriate authority is proper. She has further submitted that the burden of proof is on the respondent-workman that in this case the Labour Court should not invoke powers under Section 11A of the Act. The respondent failed to discharge the burden in this behalf and relevant factors has also not been considered by the Labour Court. 3.3 Mr. Bhairavia, learned Advocate for the respondent has tried to support the reasonings of the Labour Court in this behalf. 4. Before I consider the relevant aspects, let me set out statutory provisions of the Act in this behalf. 4.1 Learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the State Road Transport Corporation is constituted under Section 3 of the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950. The Corporation has been established to offer advantages to the public, trade and industry by [he development of road transport and for the desirability of co-ordinating any form of road transport with any other form of transport, and also for the desirability of extending and improving the facilities for road transport in any area and of providing an efficient and economical system of road transport service therein. She has referred certain Sections of the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950 , which reads as under : 4.2 In view of the provisions contained in Regulation 80 of the Gujarat State Transport Employees Regulations, the Corporation has framed Discipline and Appeal Procedure for the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation Employees. Regulation 3 provides that there shall be two clauses of offences : (ii) of clause 3 provides that acts of misconduct are those which have been specified in Schedule 'A' with such modifications as may be specified by the Corporation from lime to time for which the maximum penalty is as prescribed in Clause 7, according to the gravity of the misconduct. (iii) of clause 3 provides that minor lapses and delinquencies are those included in Schedule 'B' with any modification that would be effected by the administration from time to time which may result in warning, reprimand and fines upto the limit prescribed in Clause 7. Clause 7 provides the punishments may be awarded for good and sufficient reasons, including breaches of any rules of conduct, or for committing any of the offences mentioned in the Schedules, according to the gravity of the each case. The same are dealing with minor lapses and delinquencies and acts of misconduct. Schedule A of the Discipline and Appeal Procedure for the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation Employees provides acts of misconduct. Clause 7 of the said Schedule provides as under : Clause 11 of the said Schedule provides for gross negligence resulting in serious loss to the Corporation or inconvenience to the public or both. Clause 12 of the said Schedule provides for (a) Theft (b) Fraud, dishonesty or misappropriation in connection with the business or the property of the Corporation. Clause 23 of the said Schedule provides for collecting money within the premises or vehicles of the Corporation except as sanctioned by any law for the time-being in force or with the permission of the Competent Authority. Clause 27 of. the said Schedule provides for repeated or continued negligence or neglect of work. Clause 34 of the said Schedule provides for excess over Rs. 25/- found with a conductor without proper explanation or repeated excesses of smaller amounts found with a conductor. Clause 35 of the said Schedule provides for Under-issue of tickets i.e., issue of tickets for less than the actual distance travelled by a passenger and failure on the pan of a conductor to maintain records in the proper manner. Schedule B provides for minor lapses and delinquencies. 4.3 On basis of this, the learned Advocate for the Corporation stated that when act of employee-conductor amounts to dishonesty or fraud and when workman is disloyal to the Corporation and when his act is falling within any of the above Clauses it will amount to a serious misconduct and for that the Corporation/Competent Authority is entitled to dismiss the employee from the service. It has been stated that the employee is engaging in corruption activities and misconduct is proved, then Labour Court has unnecessarily shown a sympathy to the workman by reinstating him in the service. 4.4 In view of the aforesaid legal aspects, she has submitted that the findings of the Labour Court that merely because the passenger was not examined, the Corporation has failed to prove the guilt of the respondent-employee is incorrect. She has referred to the detail report of the competent authority and also the cross-examination of the checker which has been referred in the order of dismissal by the competent authority. She stated that the checker was examined and he was cross-examined by the respondent-employee. Even respondent has given his statement before the authority. 4.5 She has referred the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of State of Haryana & Anr v. Rattan Singh , reported in AIR 1977 SC 1512. In para 4 the Hon'ble Apex Court has held as under : 4.5(A) Learned Counsel for the Corporation has relied upon judgment of this Court in the case of Parikshatbhai Madhavbhai Patel v. Division Controller, G.S.R.T.C. Surat , reported in 2000 (1) GLH 31 : 2000 (1) GLR 65. In that case, appellant-employee Parikshatbhai Madhavbhai Patel was working as conductor with the Corporation. It was a case of the Corporation that when

the appellant was on duty on Olpad-Punit route under Surat Depot, his bus was checked and it was found that though the appellant had collected amount of fare from certain passengers, he had not issued tickets nor he had closed way bill. A report was made and an inquiry was conducted against him wherein he was found guilty. He was, therefore, dismissed from service with effect from November 14, 1995. 4.5(B) Being aggrieved by the order of dismissal the appellant approached the Labour Court and in Reference (L.C.S.) No. 190 of 1996. The Labour Court, Surat partly allowed the Reference by an award dated January 31, 1997 and directed the Corporation to reinstate the workman in service on the post of helper or peon without back wages. 4.5(C) Being dissatisfied with the award passed by the Labour Court, the Corporation preferred the petition. The learned single Judge of this Court by the judgment impugned in the petition observed that while inflicting punishment of dismissal, the competent authority took into consideration the fact that the workman was involved in similar kind of misconduct on earlier occasions also and was punished in past. He also observed that once the workman was dismissed from service by the Disciplinary Authority but the Appellate Authority took a lenient view and substituted order of dismissal by imposing lesser punishment. In spite of such leniency, again, the appellant committed similar misconduct. In the opinion of the learned single Judge, therefore, the Labour Court had not exercised its discretion in accordance with law and had exceeded the jurisdiction. The learned single Judge observation which has been quoted in para 4 of the judgment (of Division Bench Judgment) reads as follows : 4.5(D) Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the aforesaid judgment, the employee of the Corporation preferred L.P.A., before this Court. The Division Bench of this Court after considering the judgment of me Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Indian Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, AIR 1953 SC 130 at 138, in para 12-A the Court observed as under : In para 20 of the said judgment the Court observed as under : 4.5(E) In view of this judgment, it was submitted by the learned Counsel for the Corporation that the Labour Court has not properly exercised its jurisdiction in this behalf and exceeded its jurisdiction. She further submitted that this judgment is squarely applies to this case, and therefore, the petition of the Corporation should be allowed in this behalf. 4.5(F) Learned Counsel for the petitioner has relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of U. P. State Road Transport Corporation v. A. K. Parul , reported in 1998 (9) SCC 416. He has also relied upon another judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Janatha Bazar (South Kanara Central Co-operative Wholesale Stores Ltd.) v. Secretary, Sahakari Noukarara Sangli, Etc . reported in 2000 AIR SCW 3439, particularly paras 6, 7 and 8, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under : 4.5(G) Learned Counsel for the petitioner has relied upon recent judgment of this Court in the case of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation v. R. S. Prajapati , reported in 2001 Lab. 1C 618. In that case this Court considered case of very Corporation. The learned single Judge has relied upon the earlier Division Bench decision of this Court in the case of G.S.R.T.C. v, Jamnadas Becharbhai , 1982 GLH 1057 : !982 (2) GLR 557 and also judgment of Division Bench of this Court in the case of G.S.R.T.C. v. Kachraji Motiji Parmar , 1993 (1) GLR 302. It may be noted that in that case the Advocate for the employee has relied upon the judgment of the learned single Judge in the case of G.S.R.T.C. v. Parshottam Premji Tank, reported in 2000 (2) GLH 258, when the learned single Judge has confronted with the aforesaid judgments of the learned single Judge in Para 12, the learned single Judge has observed as under : In para 13 on page 621 the Court has observed as under : 4.5(H) The learned Counsel for the petitioner has relied upon the judgment of this Court in the case of G.S.R.T.C. v. Rameshbhai D. Patel , in Special Civil Application 3244 of 1992 decided on 8-11-2000 by this Court (Coram : K. M. Mehta, J.), In that case this Court considered the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of U. P. State Road Transport Corporation

v. A. K. Parul , reported in 1998 (9) SCC 416, judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Janatha Bazar (South Kanam Central Co-operative Wholesale Stores Ltd.) v. Secretary, Sahakari Noukarara Sangh , reported in 2000 AIR SCW 3439 and Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case of G.S.R.T.C. v. Kachraji Motiji Parmar , reported in 1993 (1) GLR 302 and also Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case of Mihir Textiles Ltd. v. Narayansing Layaksingh, reporled in 1993 (1) GCD 137. This Court considered the provisions of Section 11-A of the Act and wherein the Tribunal has granted reinstatement the workman in similar situation the Court held that Tribunal has failed to exercise jurisdiction under Section 11-A of the Act wherein Tribunal was pleased to direct the reinstatement of the workman and to consider the service of the workman as continuous. The Court held that when there is a case of misappropriation of funds of the Corporation, the order of the Tribunal requires to be quashed and set aside. There also the Court considered the provisions of Section 11-A of the Act in view of all these decisions which are referred. 4.6 Learned Counsel has also relied upon judgment of this Court in the case of Chanduji Sendhaji Khant v. Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation , reported in 1996 (1) GLR 84. In para 9 the learned single Judge observed as under : In para 14 of the said decision , the learned single Judge has observed as under : 4.7 Learned Counsel has also relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation v. Bhikhabhai Manjibhai , reported in 1997 (1) GLR 416. In para 10 the learned single Judge has observed as under : 4.8 Learned Counsel has also relied upon another decision of this Court in the case of Shantilal M. Shah v. Dena Bank & Ors., reported in 1997 (1) GLH 942. In para 8 on page 948 the Court observed as under : 4.9 Learned Counsel for the petitioner has also submitted that when petitioner is dealing with the Corporation money, it is a public money and misappropriated by the employee of the Corporation is the misappropriation of the public money and must be treated a serious misconduct. 5. Learned Counsel for the respondent has relied upon judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of A.M.C. v. Mahendrabhai Jayantibhai Shukla, reported in 2001 Lab. IC 150. In that case also the Court held that when conductor had issued improper tickets the same would amount negligent, but not misconduct. The Court held that punishment of dismissal is too harsh and the Court ordered for reinstatement with 25% back wages. In that case, facmally the Court has come to the conclusion that instead of charging fare of Rs. 1.80/- the respondent has charged Rs. 1.50/- and from that peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, this Court held that punishment of dismissal is too harsh. In my view the facts of that case is not applicable to this case. 5.1 Similarly, learned Counsel for the respondent has also relied upon judgment of this Court in the case of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation v. Gordhanbhai P. Prajapati, reported in 1999 (1) GCD 460 (Guj.). That case also considered that the Labour Court has taken into consideration the aspects of the case and modifying the order of punishment and Labour Court denied the relief of back wages to the respondent and in view of that the Court did not impose further punishment. 5.2 Similarly, learned Counsel for the respondent has also relied upon the judgment of this Court in the case of G.S.R.T.C. v. Danaji Sukhajl Kodiyar , reported in 1993 (2) GLH 356. In that case also, on facts of the case dismissed the petition in this behalf. 5.3 Similar other judgment has also relied upon by the learned Counsel for the respondent. However, in my view, in view of the decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Janatha Bazar (South Kanara Central Co-operative Wholesale Stores Ltd.) v. Secretary, Sahakari Noukarara Sangh (supra) and Division Bench judgment in the case of Parikshatbhai Madhavbhai Patel (supra) which I have referred earlier, the subsequent Division Bench judgment of this Court it is not possible to agree with the findings of the Labour Court in this behalf and in my view looking to the grave misconduct committed by the respondent- employee, the tribunal is not justified in awarding the punishment and giving 35% back wages to the respondent in this behalf. The Tribunal was also not justified in reinstating the respondent on the post of peon/helper. 6. Learned Advocate for the petitioner-Corporation submitted that in this behalf the Tribunal has not considered whether the vacancy is available or not, without considering the Tribunal has passed that order, and therefore, this order is required to be quashed and set aside. 7. In view of the same, the impugned judgment and award dated 20-5-1999 passed by the Labour Court, Junagadh, in Reference (L.C.J.) No.

8 of 1995 is quashed and set aside. This Special Civil Application is allowed. Rule is made absolute. 8. Mr. Bhairavia, learned Advocate for the respondent has contended that his client is coining from very poor state of society and he is out of job since long time. It is no doubt true that post of conductor is a sensitive post, and therefore, he cannot be continued in the post of conductor. As such, however, he submitted that if he makes a representation to the Corporation to employ him to any other post (except conductor), the Corporation may consider the case of the respondent kindly and sympathetically. This observation has been made in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case without adjudicating the merits of the matter in this behalf, and therefore, this may not be treated as a precedent in this behalf. 9. Ms. Bhatt, learned Advocate for the petitioner-Corporation has strongly objected that once (his Court conies to the conclusion on the merits of the matter that Labour Court has erred in passing the impugned judgment and award in favour of respondent, then this Court may not make any further observation in this behalf. I am conscious of this fact and I am making this observation only on humanitarian ground without adjudicating the matter on the merits of the case. 10. In view of the discussion and observations made hereinabove, this Special
Civil Application is allowed. Rule is made absolute. No order as to costs. 11. Petition allowed.