Dear sir/ madam, Victime:- dibyajyoti hazra Contact no:- [protected] Area:- alandi Accused deatils:- avinash, anurag yadav Address:- ashokenagar pune Contact:- [protected], [protected] Deatails:- I belong to a middle class family where i have 6 dependants. I earn monthly 25000 by working in a private company. For last few months i was looking for a part time job so that i can earn some extra money since its difficult to manage with this little amount that too when you are staying in rent. So i started searching for part time job in an online application called olx. I found a part time job noting that parttime massage therapist needed where they are looking for male candidates from across india. I found this job option on 9/3/2019. I called the contact person avinash whose number is [protected] on 10/3/2019. He told me that its an italian massage where you need to provide massage to premium clients and you can earn accordingly. Whatever amount you will get from client 30% of that amount you need to provide to company agent and the rest is yours. I agreed. He told me that there is a joining fee of 500/- that is required for police verificatiin and also to generate a license to the agency they are running. I agreed and transferred the amount. The bank's brunch address was of dilshad colony, new delhi but the guy was saying that he is calling from pune. Still i agreed since i was in need of money. Later after 1 hour i got a call from a trainer who was supposed to train me about the techniques. He told me that i need to purchase the whole massage kit which was worth 50000. I told that if i can buy it now; then why should i search for a part time job? He told me that you can contact avinash for this; because without the kit; you will not be allowed for the massage. Then i called avinash; he told me that he need to talk to his boss; who is mr. Anurag yadav; and will find a solution and will call me back. I told ok. After 1 hour i got a call from avinash. He told me that it is true that you must have that kit; since without that you will not be allowed. There is an option; if you can pay us 4230/- amount as downpayment; then the rest amount will be converted to emi of 2000/- per month from agency end. He told me that there is no more hidden cost; you jist pay us this 4230/- amount and i will book your slot. I had no option since i was looking for some extra money on monthly basis. I thought its just one time cost; so i should spend it. So i transferred this 4230/- amount to his bank account. Then i called him and he told me that i have a slot of 9pm to 11pm where i will get 22500/- amount after agency margin deduction. I agreed. Then i started calling after 1 or 2 hours prior to my booking timing. He was not receiving. At 8:45pm he received my call and told me that customer has cancelled her booking and has asked for either 3 to 5 am slot or next day 9 to 11 pm slot. He asked me which slot do you prefer? I replied that i will go for 3 to 5 am slot. He told me ok. Also he told me that i will get a pick up at my desired address by 2:30am and i need to send the location details to the trainer. I agreed. Till 12:40am avinash picked all my calls and assured me thaf everything is fine and i will get a call by 2am. I started calling both avinash and the trainer from 2 am. I called approaximately 40 to 50 times but none of them picked my call. I messaged the trainer but got no reply. I send msgs to avinash on whatsapp, but no reply. At last i went to sleep at 5am. Now today; 11/3/2019; again i started calling avinash but he was not picking up my call. At last i got annoyed with this and sent him msg on whatsapp by saying that you guys are looting poor people's money by providing them wrong hope. Which is wrong. He wrote me that till the time he is in that agency, noone can loot my money. I found a bit hope again. Then when i called again avinash, he told me that today you will definately have a slot of 9 to 11pm; and the driver will come down to your address at 8:30pm. I agreed. Now when i called avinash at 8pm for the update; he told me that he had forgotten to mention that there is a monthly cab charge of 2500/-. I told him that if it is so; i dont need your pickup service; i will personally book ola cab and will reach to the destination. He told me that they will not allow it; i must need to reach the destination by an agency car only. I had no option again and i transferred 2500/-. Then for confirmation when i called him that i have transfered the amount; he told me that he has mistakenly mentioned 2500/-. Actually its 4000/-. I got very much annoyed and started shouting. I asked them for refund of all money that i have transfered. He told me that its not possible now. I had no option. I asked him again; please please tell me; if i send you this 1500/- more; will there be any further hidden cost that you guys will tell me later? He told me no. So i transferred and he guranteed me that the driver will come to pick me up at 8:30pm. At 8:30pm; when i called him again; he told me that his boss; mr. Anurag yadav need to talk to me, i told ok. I cleared him everything and he told me thaf he has cancelled my booking slot since i have not paid the full amount of the kit. I told that as avinash told me i have sent the 4230/- amount. He told me that avinash was wrong. Avinash is looting poor people so he will fire him by today itself. I told him that its your personal matter; i have nothing to do with that. You just tell me that what about my booking and what about my money that i have already transferred. He told me that for the kit you need to pay us 10000/-. 4230/- you have already paid. So if you pay us the rest 5770/- amount; i will book your appointment by tonight 11 to 2pm only. The cab driver will pick you up by 10:30pm. I asked him that can you provide gurantee? He told me that my office is in ashoke nagar pune, behind dominoz pizza. You can come anytime and can check whether i am doing anything wrong or not. I asked for his personal number but he did not provide me the same. He assured me that whenever you call avinash; just ask him to transfer the call to me. I will pick up your call everytime. I transferred 5770/- amount and called him. He guranteed me that he has booked a time slot of 11 to 2am tonight and i will get a pickup by 10:30. He also told me to be ready in casual dress. Now when i started calling avinash, at 10:30pm; he was not picking up. I called approaximately 10 to 15 times. But no response. Then i called him from my wife's number. Then he picked and started shouting that i have manipulated his boss to fire him. When i have nothing to do with anyone of them ; here i am looted. Its not only me; you can find many of these adds in olx where they are looting massive amount from poor people and no one is doing nothing. Even if they provide 50% of this much amount to police; these guys live freely. I request you to kindly take xharge against these 3 person and refund my all money back. I have transferred a toral of 14500/- to them and i need that back