SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: 21F need help desperately!
DATE: 2022-01-02
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ru37dh/21f_need_help_desperately/

--- POST TEXT ---

Okay so I know this is a bit of a read, but I would really appreciate some support on what to do next. 

I (21F), have been dating my bf (21M) for the past year and a half. We’ve been best friends since we were 18. We go to Uni in Australia, but were stuck in India due to Covid, and because the borders hadn’t opened by the summer of 2021, we were starting to lose hope.

He and I both have terrible lives at home, so we knew we wanted to get out of India. We decided to apply to study in Canada after our bachelors, so we could immigrate and get a work permit quickly. 

Just a bit of context: Canada has both Universities, and colleges, and the former confers degrees, while the latter sticks to diplomas. 

I got into the #1 Uni for Business, but my parents refused to finance my education, citing they wanted me to work for a few years before getting a Masters. This was in complete contrast with their behaviour in the past few months, when they encouraged me to get another degree to supplement my education. 

Getting a loan was out of the question, so my bf encouraged me to look at diplomas since they costed much lesser. 

However, when I did my research about these PGDMs in Canada - I found them to be, to put it politely, SCAMs. They don’t offer any information on life after graduation, no indication that getting the diploma actually helps with anything beyond immigration- and no career support whatsoever.

I know it’s a risk many people take, but I don’t think he and I should. We can still travel to Australia now that the borders are open, although it will be tough to find a job considering we weren’t able to network all that much bc of Covid. 

My bf insists on going to Canada, despite knowing the pitfalls of the course - we didn’t find many graduates from the course or college on LinkedIn, and the ones we did work minimum wage jobs now, which isn’t what we had in mind for our careers. 

We’re both fairly well to do, so this isn’t a decision due to economic duress, but emotional and mental stress caused by living at home. 

I need help to show my bf the reality of what he wants to get into - if he insists on going, i fear he will get into a trap of working to make ends meet, and not wanting to come back home due to the above reasons. 

I have decided to stick to Australia, as much as I want to go to Canada with him, I need to make sure once I leave, I don’t come back and doing a PGDM doesn’t give me that confidence. 

TLDR: Bf wants to escape the country and pursue a PGDM in Canada, which doesn’t have very good prospects based on what I’ve found, and I need advice on how to make him see it’s an objectively poor decision. 

TIA!