The DMK, if voted to power, will urge the Union government to bring in legislation which would prevent all social media from publishing obscene content. The party will also seek to revive the Planning Commission’s and scrap the Niti Aayog. Read other parties tech-related promises in their manifestos here (see the DMK’s manifesto appended in the bottom).

DMK will urge the Centre to set up a task force to review and revive MSME Sector (Micro, Small and Medium scale Enterprises); enabling it with better access to formal credit and technology for modernization.

Mobile manufacturing

The DMK said it will bring back an acceptable GST rate to mitigate all problems through the GST council. The present GST regime, the DMK said,  was launched by the BIP in undue haste causing a lot of difficulties to the business, trade, and the public. The unreasonably high rate of taxes pushed the prices up, and instead of bringing one tax for one Nation, the multiple rates have created confusion, compounded by the series of amendments leading to the collapse of many small business.

The Planning Commission was performing the vital role of planning the equitable distribution of wealth, ensuring employment generation, promoting health, education, social welfare, poverty alleviation and above all regionally balanced development have been closed down. And above all transfer of funds to the States through plan outlays has been stopped.

The DMK will bring back the Planning Commission and disband the Niti Aayog since ” has not made any constructive work till now.”

[embeddoc url=”https://www.medianama.com/wp-content/uploads/DMK-Paliament-Election-Manifesto-English.pdf” download=”all”]

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event