The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has proposed making it mandatory for all regulated entities to disclose their registered names and registration numbers when uploading content on social media platforms.

In a consultation paper released on November 28, the markets regulator said that social media platforms have become a hotbed for securities-market frauds, with scam operators luring victims through “misleading” and “manipulative” content.

To curb rising frauds, SEBI said there is a need to clearly distinguish between content uploaded by regulated entities, such as stockbrokers, investment advisors, and mutual funds, and that posted by unregulated entities.

For this, the regulator has proposed mandatory disclosure of the registered name and registration number on the home page of every regulated entity’s social media handle and in each social media post.

Under the proposed regulation, all regulated entities and their agents are prohibited from:

“In this regard, it is clarified that if anything contained in the social media content is either expressly or in an implied manner, in the nature of promotion of the regulated entity or products or services offered by the regulated entity, such contents shall be considered as an advertisement and shall be required to be in compliance with the provisions of Advertisement Code, if any, applicable for such entity,” said SEBI.

While SEBI has sought public comments on the consultation paper, it has not specified a deadline for submitting feedback.

The proposals come at a time when a growing number of investors are relying on financial influencers, or “finfluencers,” for investment advice.

Speaking at an event on November 29, SEBI chairman Tuhin Kanta Pandey cited findings from the regulator’s Investor Survey 2025, which show that 62% of investors in India rely on recommendations from friends, family, or social media intermediaries.

The survey also found that 56% of investors source information about securities-market products from finfluencers on platforms like YouTube, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn.

Additionally, 93% of investors considered finfluencers moderately to highly credible, and 62% said they made at least some investment decisions based on finfluencer recommendations, indicating a widening trust gap in the traditional advisory ecosystem.

The proposed regulation is part of SEBI’s broader push to curb misleading financial content online. Last month, the regulator issued an advisory to social media platforms and internet-based search engines to combat online investment scams.

The advisory mandated that platforms verify advertisers, ensuring only SEBI-registered entities can promote investment products and services. SEBI also asked platforms to introduce a distinct label for authentic and regulated trading applications to help investors differentiate them from fraudulent ones.

Earlier, in March this year, SEBI ordered registered intermediaries uploading advertisements on social media to use email IDs and mobile numbers registered on the SEBI intermediary (SI) portal while signing up.

To prevent rising online investment fraud, SEBI has also introduced a v alidated Unified Payments Interface (UPI) mechanism for registered intermediaries to ensure payments do not reach fraudulent accounts.

Stock-market investment scams are increasing in India , with fraudsters deceiving victims into putting money into fake or deceptive schemes. These scams often target investors through unsolicited messages linking to WhatsApp or Telegram groups—such as “VIP Group” or “Free Trading Courses” that promise unrealistically high returns.

Fraudsters frequently create fake profiles on social media, posing as securities-market experts. In the past , criminals have impersonated SEBI-registered intermediaries, public figures, celebrities, and top executives from government organisations and well-known private companies.

In a recent interaction with MediaNama, Srikanth Lakshmanan, founder of CashlessConsumer, a collective working on digital payments awareness, noted that several fake or Ponzi schemes specifically target people with low financial literacy, and many of these scams fall outside SEBI’s regulatory purview.

According to data from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), banks reported 13,516 cases of card and internet fraud in the financial year 2024–25 (FY25), with losses exceeding Rs 520 crore.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event