1. The present information under section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act,2002
 ('the Act') was filed by Indian Foundation of Transport Research and
 Training ('the Informant'/ IFTRT) against Shri Bal Malkait Singh, President,
 All India Motor Transport Congress ('the Opposite Party No. 1'/ OP-1/
 AIMTC) and Shri G. P. Singh, Spokesperson, All India Motor Transport
 Congress ('the Opposite Party No. 2'/ OP-2) alleging inter alia contravention
 of the provisions of section 3 of the Act. Facts 2. As per the Information, the Informant is a registered society working in the
 field of road transport, automotive sector and trucking industry for over a
 decade and assisting the government and other agencies to have efficient,
 cost effective, safe and environment friendly road transport system in the
 country. It is stated that AIMTC is an apex body of road transporters
 consisting of passenger and cargo transporters. 3. The Informant has alleged that AIMTC has uniformly increased the truck
 freight by 15% across the country on account of diesel price hike of Rs. 5/-
 per litre w.e.f. 14.09.2012. 4. According to the Informant, such action by AIMTC is clear violation of the
 provisions of the Act and restricts the free and fair play of the market forces C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 2 of 25 in the country. The Informant has also filed some newspaper reports in
 support of its averments. 5. Further, as per the Informant, AIMTC has a track record of instructing its
 constituents to jack up freight charges on account of increase in input costs
 such as diesel price. A cease and desist order was passed by the MRTP
 Commission on 31.08.2006 whereby AIMTC was directed to restrain from
 such restrictive practices. Directions to the DG 6. The Commission, after considering the entire material available on record,
 vide its order dated 10.01.2013 passed under section 26(1) of the Act directed
 the Director General (DG) to cause an investigation to be made into the
 matter and to submit a report. The DG Report 7. The DG, after receiving the directions from the Commission, investigated the
 matter and submitted the investigation report dated 11.12.2013. 8. The report of the DG was considered by the Commission in its ordinary
 meeting held on 02.01.2014. On a consideration of the report, the
 Commission vide its order dated 11.02.2014 directed the DG to further
 investigate the matter. The DG was directed to examine the conduct of the
 officer bearers of AIMTC for fixing individual responsibilities. Besides, the
 conduct of state associations and their office bearers was also ordered to be
 investigated. The DG, after receiving the directions from the Commission,
 further investigated the matter and submitted the supplementary investigation
 report on 15.07.2014. Consideration of the DG reports 9. The main investigation report as well as the supplementary report of the DG
 were considered by the Commission in its ordinary meeting held on
 06.08.2014 and it was decided to send electronic copy of the reports to the
 Informant and the Opposite Parties as also to the office-bearers of AIMTC
 and the other state associations/ federations as identified by the DG for filing
 their respective replies/ objections/ financial statements/ profit and loss
 accounts/ turnover/ Income Tax Returns. 10. It may be noted that the DG, apart from AIMTC, found the following
 associations/ federations to be in contravention of the provisions of section 3 of the Act: Chennai Goods Transport Association, Maharashtra Heavy
 Vehicle & Interstate Container Operators Association, Kumayun Motor
 Operators Co-operative Union Ltd., Navi Mumbai Transport Association,
 Jharkhand Trunk Owners Association and Lorry Owners Welfare Federation,
 Kerala. Besides, the DG identified the officer bearers of such associations for
 the purpose of fixing responsibilities under section 48 of the Act. Reply of AIMTC 11. AIMTC filed its reply/ objections to the investigation reports. An additional
 affidavit dated 28.11.2014 on behalf of AIMTC also came to be filed by one
 Shri Navin Gupta. The same shall be dealt with while analyzing the issues
 arising in the present case. The Informant has supported the findings of the
 DG. Analysis 12. The Commission has perused the information, reports of the DG, reply/
 objections filed on behalf of AIMTC as also the other material available on C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 4 of 25 record. On a careful consideration of the matter, the following issue arises for
 consideration in the present case: 13. It appears that the Informant is aggrieved by the conduct of AIMTC in
 allegedly giving a direction to the member transporters to uniformly raise the
 truck freight rates by 15% across the country on account of and consequent
 upon the diesel price hike of Rs. 5 per litre announced by public sector oil
 marketing companies w.e.f. 13.09.2012. 14. To investigate the matter, the DG framed various issues and on consideration
 of the material collected during the course of investigation concluded that
 there was a meeting of mind/ action in concert amongst the members of the
 association to fix the price consequent upon hike in diesel prices. It was also
 noted by the DG that the statements made by the President and the
 Spokesperson of the association in press were directions/ message to the
 members conveying the decision of the executive body. It was further
 concluded that the announcement in public to increase the freight charges had
 a major role in determining the prices of truck rentals indirectly. Lastly, it
 was noted by the DG that AIMTC acted in a "cartel like" manner by asking
 its members to effect 15% increase in freight charges across the country
 ignoring the actual effect of the diesel price hike. As such, the act of AIMTC
 was considered by the DG to be in contravention of the provisions of section
 3(3)(a) of the Act. 15. AIMTC criticised the investigation conducted by the DG by arguing that no
 material evidence came up before the DG wherefrom allegations against
 AIMTC would be sustained. It was submitted that there was no agreement
 involving AIMTC and/ or its office bearers or members vis-à-vis provision of C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 5 of 25 services. It was argued that there was no meeting of mind by or between
 AIMTC and its members, nor had any one of them committed or attempted to
 commit any act either on 14.09.2012 or at any time thereafter which could
 have impacted the market. 16. It was vehemently argued that far from any evidence against AIMTC and its
 members, nothing came on record to even remotely show that there was
 overall increase in truck fare on 14.09.2012 as a consequence of hike in
 diesel prices by Rs. 5 per litre with effect from 13.09.2012, or that on
 14.09.2012 the market fares were increased by 15% in comparison to rates
 that existed on 13.09.2012. 17. Grievance was also made by AIMTC about reports of the DG on the ground
 that the DG relied upon inter alia the material supplied by the Informant and
 media reports etc. It was alleged that the material supplied by the informant
 was neither authentic nor based on any proof or evidence and was merely in
 the nature of hearsay. It was also pointed out that media reports did not
 provide any authentication to the allegations and at best it could have
 prompted the investigator to probe into reality by studying the market. 18. It was also argued that the Office of the DG is a statutory body under the Act
 to aid and assist the Commission in investigating into the matter. As an
 investigating agency of the Commission, the DG was duty bound to carry out
 surveys, collect material and evidences etc. and to record its findings vis-a-vis
 the allegations for which the investigation was ordered. 19. Reference was made to the various provisions of the Act including the
 provisions as contained in sections 36 and 41 of the Act to contend that the
 statute confers all the powers upon the investigator to carry out a meaningful
 investigation. However, it was alleged that the DG did not make any attempt
 to carry out the genuine investigation into the matter. 20. It was forcefully submitted that none of the office bearers of the AIMTC had
 made any statement to the media that with effect from 14.09.2012 truck fares
 will be increased by 15%. It was argued that the investigator failed to
 appreciate that the steep, abrupt and unprecedented hike in diesel price would
 naturally have sharp reactions in the public and media. Accordingly, media
 interviewed the officer bearers of AIMTC to gather their opinion on the issue.
 In the interview, the officials of AIMTC gave their views that hike in diesel
 prices directly or indirectly affect all sectors and services including the truck
 operating costs. However, no specific statement was given that as a
 consequence of diesel hike truck fares will be hiked by 15%. As there was no
 statement directly or indirectly made by officials of AIMTC, there is no
 question of AIMTC or its officers having issued a "diktat" of any kind to its
 members. Moreover, it was pointed out that as there was no alleged increase
 in the truck fares, the DG was wholly in error to draw conclusions based on
 presumptions. It was also pointed out that none of the newspapers which
 covered the news had quoted the officials of AIMTC. The media reporting
 was from sources of Press Trust of India (PTI) based on its assessment and
 not as a consequence of any statement of any office bearer of AIMTC. 21. On the issue of similarity of news in various newspapers, it was clarified that
 AIMTC did not give any statement to any individual news channel or
 newspaper, but made a press release for PTI. Various news agencies collected
 the news from PTI and, as such, the reporting was bound to be similar. It was
 also argued that merely because various newspapers have made similar
 reporting, it would be an absurdity to draw an inference that it is pursuant to
 statements of officials of AIMTC or must have been from officials of
 AIMTC. 22. It was also argued that media reports are in themselves not conclusive pieces
 of evidence and in the absence of material substantiation and corroboration,
 the same cannot form the basis of any opinion against a party, nor can the
 same lead to any penalty or adverse remarks. 23. In the additional affidavit, it was sought to be clarified that AIMTC did not
 pass any resolution exhorting its members to increase fare in any manner. It
 was argued that the association has nothing to do with the truck fares nor is it
 instrumental in determining truck fares in any other manner. Objection was
 also taken to the investigation on the ground that the DG failed to investigate
 as to whether fares had actually gone up by 15% or not. It was pointed out
 that in reality the truck fares did not rise as alleged. 24. In view of the above submissions, it was prayed that the DG reports, being
 legally untenable and wholly unsubstantiated, are liable to be rejected and the
 information be dismissed accordingly. 25. The Commission has perused the material available on record besides hearing
 the counsel for the appearing parties. 26. The gravamen of the information filed by IFTRT against AIMTC centres
 around the alleged anti-competitive conduct of the latter in giving alleged
 arbitrary direction on 14.09.2012 to its trucker members to increase the truck
 freight by 15% across the country on account of and consequent upon the
 hike in diesel prices by Rs. 5 per litre which was effected by public sector oil
 marketing companies with effect from 13.09.2012. Reference was also made
 to an order passed by the erstwhile the MRTP Commission against AIMTC
 on 31.08.2006 in RTPE No. 03 of 2000 for issuing a circular to its members
 for increasing the freight rates. It was pointed out that a cease and desist order
 was passed against the association by the MRTP Commission directing it not
 to indulge in such practices and further not to repeat the same in future. 27. It may it may be noted that competition law while prohibiting anti- competitive agreements defines the term "agreement" in section 2(b) of the
 Act in a very inclusive and expansive manner. It may be noted that the term
 "agreement" has been defined very widely by including any arrangement or
 understanding or action in concert whether or not such arrangement or C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 8 of 25 understanding or action is formal or in writing or whether or not such
 arrangement or understanding or action is intended to be enforceable by legal
 proceedings. It is no doubt more often the case that the evidence in respect of
 anti-competitive agreements will normally be only fragmentary and sparse,
 and as such it is often necessary to reconstitute certain details by deduction.
 In most cases, the existence of an anti-competitive practice or agreement or
 decision has to be inferred from a number of coincidences and indicia which,
 taken together, may, in the absence of another plausible explanation,
 constitute evidence of the existence of an agreement. 28. In view of this legal position, the Commission is of opinion that nothing
 significant turns upon the submissions made on behalf of AIMTC that since
 no written circular was issued to the members exhorting them to increase the
 freight rates consequent upon the hike in diesel prices, provisions of the Act
 could not have been contravened by the association. The Commission holds
 that even de hors the written circular or directions if the material on record
 indicates a concerted action, it may be enough to hold contravention of the
 provisions of the Act. 29. In this backdrop, the material collected by the DG during the course of
 investigation may be examined. In this regard, it may be noted from the
 statement of Shri Bal Malkait Singh, President of AIMTC recorded before
 the DG, that a press conference was called by Shri Kultaran Singh Atwal,
 Vice-President of AIMTC at the association's head office at 1/16-A, Asaf Ali
 Road, New Delhi-110002 on 14.09.2012. After the press conference, a press
 release was issued to media persons who were present and attended the said
 press conference. For felicity of reference, it would be appropriate to quote
 the same hereinbelow: It is also an umbrella body covering over 2500 taluka, district and state level
 federations and transport associations. In this backdrop, any signal coming
 from the highest officials of the association has a great persuasive effect
 which, as will be shown later, has also translated into action. In any event,
 under the competition law any agreement including practice or decision
 which causes or is likely to cause appreciable adverse effect on competition
 is frowned upon. The question whether such a decision was actually carried
 or implemented is beside the point, though this aspect may have some
 bearing while quantifying the penalties upon the defaulting entities. Thus,
 though the Commission is of opinion that the decisions and directions made
 or issued by AIMTC not only have a great persuasive value due to its pan-
 India representative character but also in fact were acted upon by the
 members of the association, as will be shown in the order. 35. The DG in the main as well as supplementary investigation reports also
 examined the effect of the impugned announcements in public by the officials
 of AIMTC to increase the freight charges upon the prices of truck rentals. It
 cannot be disputed that any announcement made by the association hailing
 the members to increase the freight rate could directly or indirectly result in
 determination of prices of services. For the reasons stated earlier, it is not
 necessary to dilate any further on this aspect as the DG has submitted the C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 14 of 25 detailed analysis in this regard and which has not been seriously disputed by
 AIMTC. Suffice to note that the impact of announcement of AIMTC can be
 seen in the findings of the DG supplementary investigation report which
 notes that state associations like Chennai Goods Transport Association,
 Maharashtra Heavy Vehicle & Interstate Container Operators Association,
 Kumayun Motor Operators Cooperative Union Ltd and Navi Mumbai
 Transport Association, Jharkhand Truck Owners Association and Lorry
 Owners Welfare Federation of Kerala not only communicated to their
 members for effecting an increase in freight charges but also, in some cases,
 to participate in the nationwide strike. Announcement of AIMTC to increase
 freight rates was also a signal to the demand side so that expectations of
 increase in freight rates could be formed, which would aid in actual increase
 on the ground. Therefore, the Commission is of considered opinion that the
 impact of announcement of AIMTC is quite clear in terms of state
 associations taking a cue and directing their members an increase in the
 freight rates. This is fortified by the admission of Pondicherry Goods
 Transporters' Association, as noted below, wherein it has admitted as to how
 it functions on the advice of AIMTC given through press/ media or telephone
 calls. Thus, there cannot be a stronger evidence of the impact of
 announcement of AIMTC upon its members and ultimately upon the freight
 rates charged by individual truckers. 36. There are some other aspects also which strengthen and corroborate the
 existence of an agreement amongst members of AIMTC to fix prices in
 respect of freight rates charged by individual truckers. 37. It may be noted that AIMTC had given a call for nationwide strike on
 20.09.2012. In this connection, it may be noticed from the Press Release
 dated 14.09.2012 that AIMTC was contemplating indefinite suspension of
 transport operations pan-India. Further, it may be observed from the Press
 Release dated 18.12.2012 issued by AIMTC that it decided at its emergent
 meeting held at Mumbai to go for one-day suspension of operations pan-India C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 15 of 25 from midnight of 19.09.2012 so as to mark its protest against the hike in
diesel prices. It would be appropriate to notice the release and same and is
quoted below: India. In such a scenario, it is futile for the association to contend that its
 decisions do not have any binding value for its members and it is purely a
 non-political, non-religious and non-profitable organization committed to
 work for the development of road transport and for the welfare of the people
 associated with this industry. 39. The Commission notes that in terms of the provisions contained in section
 3(1) of the Act, no enterprise or association of enterprises or person or C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 19 of 25 association of persons can enter into any agreement in respect of production,
 supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of
 services, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on
 competition within India. Section 3(2) of the Act declares that any agreement
 entered into in contravention of the provisions contained in sub-section (1)
 shall be void. Further, by virtue of the presumption contained in subsection
 (3), any agreement entered into between enterprises or associations of
 enterprises or persons or associations of persons or between any person and
 enterprise or practice carried on, or decision taken by, any association of
 enterprises or association of persons, including cartels, engaged in identical
 or similar trade of goods or provision of services, which-(a) directly or
 indirectly determines purchase or sale prices; (b) limits or controls
 production, supply, markets, technical development, investment or provision
 of services; (c) shares the market or source of production or provision of
 services by way of allocation of geographical area of market, or type of
 goods or services, or number of customers in the market or any other similar
 way; (d) directly or indirectly results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, shall
 be presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition. 40. Thus, in case of agreements as listed in section 3(3) of the Act, once it is
 established that such an agreement exists, it will be presumed that the
 agreement has an appreciable adverse effect on competition; the onus to rebut
 the presumption would lie upon the opposite parties. It has already been
 shown that AIMTC through its impugned action has tried to determine the
 price of freight rates and, as such, such action squarely fell within the
 presumption raised in section 3 (3) of the Act. 41. In the present case, AIMTC could not rebut the said presumption. It has not
 been shown as to how the impugned conduct resulted into accrual of benefits
 to consumers or made improvements in production or distribution of goods in C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 20 of 25 question. Neither, the association could explain as to how the said conduct
 did not foreclose competition. 42. The Commission is constrained to note that the impugned conduct of AIMTC
 is not only anti-competitive and in contravention of the provisions of section
 3 of the Act but it also has a cascading impact through various state level
 associations affiliated to it in the market setting the chain reaction in motion.
 These state associations were only the foot soldiers in implementing this
 process of distortion at the local level. 43. The Commission also observes that the print and electronic media also
 became an easy purveyor of the anti-competitive conduct resorted to by
 AIMTC in as much as instead of issuing circulars calling upon the members
 to increase the freight rates, AIMTC changed its tack by issuing press
 releases through a news agency reflecting its intent alongwith briefings given
 by the senior officials of the association to the media to clarify the penumbra
 in the press release i.e. fixing of price etc. In fact, such modus operandi
 adopted by AIMTC was laid bare by Pondicherry Goods Transporters'
 Association- a life members of AIMTC- in the documents filed before the
 Commission. It was categorically mentioned therein that the association acts
 and operates or suspends business as per the guidelines issued by AIMTC
 through media/ press and instructions given over phone. For felicity of
 reference, the relevant para of the reply dated 30.10.2014 of Pondicherry
 Goods Transporters' Association may be noticed: -------- We have directed our members regarding diesel price increase and
 advised to increase the rates in freight competitively and instructed
 the Transport annual contract carriers to appeal their customers to
 little more freight since the some members are operating with huge
 loss because of the diesel increase. 44. Such a categorical admission by one of the life members of AIMTC
 completely belies the stand taken by AIMTC that its decisions are not
 binding upon the members and it is purely a non-political, non-religious and
 non-profitable organization committed to work for the development of road
 transport and for the welfare of the people associated with this industry. In
 such a scenario, it is not difficult to envisage that the situation cannot be any
 different in respect of other member associations. Resultantly, the
 Commission has no hesitation in holding that AIMTC through its press
 releases/ media briefings/ telephone calls was instrumental in persuading its
 member associations to fix freight rates. It is also apparent that members
 associations were in touch with each other to discuss the issue of increase of
 freight rates and also directed their respective member to act accordingly.
 Such collusive and concerted practices distorted the market dynamics and led
 the truckers to increase the prices through the decisions of associations
 instead of pricing the services through the market forces of demand and
 supply. 45. In view of the above discussion, the Commission is of opinion that AIMTC
 through its impugned act/ conduct has contravened the provisions of section
 3(3)(a) read with section 3(1) of the Act, as detailed above. 46. Resultantly, AIMTC is directed to cease and desist from indulging in the act/
 conduct which have been found to be in contravention of the provisions of
 the Act in this order and in particular it is directed to refrain from issuing any
 announcements/ directions/ circulars etc. to its members which may
 contravene the provisions of the Act. 47. Furthermore, in terms of the provisions contained in section 27(b) of the Act,
 the Commission may impose such penalty upon the contravening parties, as it
 may deem fit which shall be not more than ten per cent of the average of the
 turnover for the last three preceding financial years, upon each of such person
 or enterprises which are parties to such agreements or abuse. 48. It is evident that the legislature has conferred wide discretion upon the
 Commission in the matter of imposition of penalty as can be noticed from the
 phraseology employed in the provision noted above. 49. It may be noted that the primary objectives behind imposition of penalties
 are: to impose penalties on infringing undertakings which reflect the
 seriousness of the infringement; and to ensure that the threat of penalties will
 deter both the infringing undertakings and other undertakings that may be
 considering anti-competitive activities from engaging in them. 50. The Commission is also conscious of the fact that any unfair and anti- competitive increase in price of freight rates has a cascading and inflationary
 impact upon the goods and services consumed by common man. Thus, the
 Commission deems infraction of competition law with much more
 seriousness in respect of such conduct which ultimately impacts the common
 man besides distorting the competitive process in the market. Needless to add C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 23 of 25 or point out, AIMTC also suffered orders of the MRTP Commission in the
 past for similar conduct. No mitigating factor has been shown by AIMTC or
 is otherwise found to be present. Considering the totality of facts and
 circumstances of the present case, the Commission decides to impose penalty
 on AIMTC @ 10% of the average turnover of the last three years. The total
 amount of penalty is worked out as follows: 51. The Commission further directs AIMTC to deposit the penalty amount within
 60 days of receipt of this order. 52. Before concluding, it may be noted that the Commission while forwarding
 electronic copy of investigation reports to AIMTC, also forwarded the same
 to the identified state associations and their office bearers for filing their
 respective replies and financial statements. As some of such entities have not
 filed the requisite information, the Commission decides to pass an
 appropriate order separately qua such entities and persons. 53. It is ordered accordingly. 54. The Secretary is directed to inform the parties accordingly. Sd/- (Ashok Chawla)
 Chairperson C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 24 of 25 Sd/- (S. L. Bunker)
 Member

 Sd/- (Sudhir Mital)
 Member

 Sd/- (Augustine Peter)
 Member

 Sd/- (U.C. Nahta)
 Member

New Delhi
Date: 16/02-/2015 C. No. 61 of 2012 Page 25 of 25