Since common cause of action is involved, both the writ
 petitions have been clubbed together and are disposed of by
 the following judgment. 2. W.P.(C) No.20998 of 2025: Instant writ petition is filed
 by the petitioner assailing the correctness, legality and Page 1 of 23 judicial propriety of the impugned order dated 6 th May,
2025 as at Annexure-9 of the Commissioner, Bhubaneswar
Municipal Corporation (BMC), namely, opposite party
No.1, whereby, allotment of shop No.36, Unit-IV, Fish
Market, Bhubaneswar in his favour has been cancelled and
furthermore, to direct the opposite parties and particularly,
BMC to restore and re-affirm the allotment and possession
of the shop with necessary steps to be taken to prevent any
such interference in its possession by opposite party No.2
with such other reliefs sought for therein. 3. W.P.(C) No.19444 of 2025: Present writ petition is filed
at the behest of opposite party No.2 seeking quashment of
the impugned order dated 6th May, 2025 as at Annexure-11
of the BMC, pursuant to the direction issued in W.P.(C)
No.1662 of 2025 vis-à-vis consideration of her grievance in
transferring ownership of the shop in question initially
allotted to opposite party No.4 (allottee and the petitioner in
the other case) on the grounds inter alia that such decision is
liable to be interfered with besides a direction to opposite
part Nos.2 & 3 to re-consider the demand for regularization
of possession/ownership in respect thereof as deemed just
and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case. 4. According to the petitioner in W.P.(C) No.20998 of 2025,
he was allotted with the alleged shop in Unit-IV market at
Bhubaneswar by the BMC on 13th August, 1996 and ever
since then, running a business from there. It is pleaded that
in 2011, the petitioner hired one Sayed Samsur Alli as an Page 2 of 23 Accountant and during Covid-19 pandemic, due to his old
age and health issues, temporarily handed over the
management of the shop to the latter's son, namely, Salim
Khan but in mid-2024, it was learned by him that the shop's
electricity connection had been fraudulently transferred in
the name of one Farida Begum, who is the widow of Sayed
Samsur Alli using forged and fabricated documents
including a false notarized agreement dated 5th November,
2004 besides letter dated 28th June, 2023 purportedly issued
by the BMC and thereafter, their family forcefully took over
possession of the shop threatening and preventing him to
run the business, as a result of which, an FIR was lodged on
21st February, 2025 corresponding to ICC No.16699 of 2025
pending in the file of S.D.J.M., Bhubaneswar. It is also
pleaded that in the meanwhile, opposite party No.2, who is
the petitioner in W.P.(C) No.19444 of 2025, filed W.P.(C)
No.1662 of 2025 disposed of on 30th January, 2025 at the
stage of admission carrying a direction therein to the BMC
to consider her representation afresh. It has been alleged by
the petitioner that he submitted a representation on 9 th April,
2025 and had even intimated the BMC about the fraudulent
agreement managed by opposite party No.2. It is claimed
that the parties appeared before the BMC on 15 th April,
2025 pursuant to the order in W.P.(C) No.1662 of 2025,
however, without providing the petitioner a proper and
reasonable opportunity of hearing, directed cancellation of
the allotment by the impugned order vide Annexure-9. The
aforesaid decision of opposite party No.1 has been Page 3 of 23 questioned by opposite party No.2 as well on the premise
that possession/allotment in respect of the alleged shop was
not confirmed and transferred as it had been applied by her.
In fact, opposite party No.1 vide Annexure-9 held and
concluded that both the parties violated the norms in
transferring/subletting/purchasing of licence of the allotted
shop, hence, it cannot be allotted/transferred to them. The
further conclusion of opposite party No.1 therein regarding
the claim of opposite party No.2 is that the same is
impermissible in absence of any provision of transfer of
license, subletting and mortgaging the allotted shop to any
other person or in favour of a business partner by the
allottee. In other words, since the allotment has been
cancelled, the allottee has knocked the doors of this Court
and as there has been no transfer in respect of the shop
allowed by opposite party No.1, it has also been challenged
by opposite party No.2. 5. The question is, whether, the allotment in favour of the
allottee could have been cancelled as has been directed by
opposite party No.1? Whether, opposite party No.2 could
have demanded the transfer of licence of the allotted shop in
her favour on the grounds stated and such transfer is
permissible? 6. Heard Mr. Pangari, learned Senior Advocate for the
petitioner, Mr. Dash, learned counsel for the BMC and Mr.
Palit, learned Senior Advocate for opposite party No.2. 7. Mr. Pangari, learned Senior Advocate for the petitioner
refers to the certificate of trade licence issued in favour of
the allottee on 14th November, 2024 valid till 30th October,
2025 as at Annexure-1 and the receipts issued by the BMC
towards the monthly licence fee deposited to contend that
the allottee is in possession ever since 1996. The further
submission is that possession of the allotted shop till the
month of July, 2025 is proved and established referring to
the holding tax receipts at Annexure-2. It is contended that
there has been payment of monthly licence fee till July,
2025 revealed from Annexure-2 and hence, the possession
of the shop by the allottee is clearly discernible, the fact,
which has been lost sight of by opposite party No.1. It is
also contended that opposite party No.2 produced a fake
notarized agreement dated 5th November, 2024 and
fraudulent application addressed to the BMC with an order
by them dated 28th June, 2023 as at Annexure-3 series to
claim possession and transfer of the allotted shop in her
favour, however, such fraud was revealed after information
was obtained under the RTI Act . It has been the submission
that opposite party No.2 used a fake Aadhaar Card bearing a
wrong Aadhaar number of the petitioner indicated therein
and even obtained an electricity connection in her own
name, which is an act of misuse of personal identification
and hence, it seriously affects the credibility and
authenticity of the document relied on while demanding
transfer of the allotted shop in her favour. A copy of the
original Aadhaar Card of the petitioner as at Annexure-5 is Page 5 of 23 referred to claim that such a fraud has been perpetrated by
opposite part No.2. The contention of Mr. Pangari, learned
Senior Advocate is that the alleged agreement dated 5 th
November, 2004 was never acted upon even assuming for
the sake of argument that it is genuine and notably, the
electricity connection in the name of opposite party No.2
was managed in the year 2024 and thereafter, this Court was
approached in W.P.(C) No.1662 of 2025 in the month of
January, 2025 and because of gross delay, such claim on the
basis of the agreement casts serious doubt on the
genuineness of the same. Furthermore, it is contended that
opposite party No.1 did not provide the allottee, a
reasonable opportunity of hearing, while complying the
Court's order in W.P.(C) No.1662 of 2025 and showing
disinterestedness disposed of the representation of opposite
party No.2, who was demanding the transfer of the allotted
shop without considering the plea advanced by him on the
ground of fraud leading to the passing of the impugned
order as at Annexure-9 and arbitrarily and illegally canceled
the allotment, instead. While advancing such an argument
Mr. Pangari, learned Senior Advocate submitted that
opposite party No.1 ought to have taken judicial notice of
the forgery and fraud committed by opposite party No.2 and
also the official confirmation received from the BMC with
regard to the information shared under the RTI Act on
ownership vis-à-vis shop No.36 but unfortunately, without a
proper hearing being held, such a decision was arrived at
cancelling the allotment altogether and therefore, it amounts Page 6 of 23 to violation of principles of natural justice for non-
consideration of valid documents and even acceptance of
holding tax till the month of July, 2025. In support of the
above contention, Mr. Pangari, learned Senior Advocate
cited the following case laws, such as, Bela Sethi Vrs.
North Delhi Municipal Corporation & others 2018 SCC
OnLine Del 11012 and Ajay Choudhary & others Vrs.
The Ranchi Municipal Corporation & others in LPA
No.296 of 2022 of the High Court of Jharkhand dated 15th
September, 2022 with the submission that there has been
cancellation of allotment without observing the principles of
natural justice and that apart, the decision dated 6th May,
2025 by the BMC is not legally tenable for having not
assigned any reason, though, it has been rightly held that the
transfer of the allotted shop in favour of opposite party No.2
is not permissible. 8. On the contrary, Mr. Dash, learned counsel for the BMC
submitted that the Authority concerned did not commit any
error or illegality in compliance of the Court's order in
W.P.(C) No.1662 of 2025 and on a subjective satisfaction
about subletting of the allotted shop by the allottee in
absence of any such provision of transfer of
licence/subletting and mortgaging of a shop to anyone else,
rightly cancelled the allotment and correctly held that it
cannot be allotted to opposite party No.2 either and
therefore, such a decision as per Annexure-9 & 12 should
not be disturbed and tinkered with. 9. Mr. Palit, learned Senior Advocate for opposite party
No.2 submits that there has been an agreement between the
parties in 2004 and it was on such ground and understanding
between them that the transfer of the allotment of the shop
and a claim in that regard was put forth but it has not been
duly considered by the BMC ignoring the fact that on
account of such agreement, the allottee was paid an amount
of Rs.13 lac and as a consequence, the entire charge of the
business was taken over and also possession of the shop in
the year 2004 itself. The contention is that the agreement
was executed by the allottee and allowed the shop being
used by opposite party No.2 to run the business. It is
contended that pursuant to the agreement as well as the
affidavit dated 5th November, 2004 the allotee submitted a
representation before the BMC for transfer of ownership of
the shop by stating the reasons regarding his inability and
financial crisis to run the business. A copy of the letter
addressed to the BMC as at Annexure-4 in W.P.(C)
No.19444 of 2025 is referred to, while advancing such a
plea and according to Mr. Palit, learned Senior Advocate,
the aforesaid development having taken place and
possession being with opposite party No.2 since 2004 and
the fact that the Union had requested the BMC in 2007 as
per Annexure-5 for transfer of the allotment in her favour,
such transfer of allotment could not have been denied by the
Authority concerned. Further referring to Annexure-12, it is
contended by Mr. Palit, learned Senior Advocate that there
is no bar in transferring the allotment in favour of opposite Page 8 of 23 party No.2 and therefore, it was not right and justified on the
part of the BMC declining the same, while cancelling the
allotment altogether. It is also the submission that the
possession of the allotted shop by opposite party No.2 is
established from the trade licence issued in her favour in
2022-2023 and 2024-2025. The copies of the IT returns with
the address statement therein as at Annexure-6 series are
also placed reliance on. The further submission is that there
has been transfer of possession in favour of opposite party
No.2 by the allottee and hence, a case is made out for such
transfer of the allotment but the BMC while disposing of her
representation denied the same with the conclusion that
there is no provision for transfer of licence and the
agreement between the parties amounts to violation of the
norms of any such transfer of the licence in respect of the
shop in question. The contention is that the BMC ought to
have considered the facts narrated herein above and directed
transfer of the allotment as it had already been allowed
before in view of Annexure-12 and therefore, the impugned
decision dated 6th May, 2025 cannot be sustained in law. An
order dated 25th August, 2014 in W.P.(C) No.5726 of 2012
of this Court is cited by Mr. Palit, learned Senior Advocate
to submit that a direction was issued therein for the BMC to
consider change of ownership and regularization of
possession in respect of the shop rooms in Unit-I Market at
Bhubaneswar and list of names of the original allottees with
transfer of ownerships in respect of the occupants with the
claim that transfer of licence/ownership of the allotted shop Page 9 of 23 in favour of opposite party No.2 is permissible. Lastly, a
decision of the Apex Court in M/s. Motilal Padampat
Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. Vrs. State of Uttar Pradesh &
others (1979) 2 SCC 409 is cited by Mr. Palit, learned
Senior Advocate to contend that opposite party No.2 is
entitled to such transfer of allotment on the basis of doctrine
of estoppel. One more decision in Union of India & others
Vrs. Indo-Afghan Agencies Ltd. (1968) 2 SCR 366 is
referred to in support of the claim that the BMC should have
directed transfer of allotment in favour of opposite party
No.2 under the circumstances described and pleaded on
record. 10. The claim of opposite party No.2 is based on a notarized
certificate accompanied with an agreement dated 5th
November, 2004 and also a representation by the Union,
namely, Jaya Jawan Maschhaya Byabasai Sangha,
Bhubaneswar to the BMC with a request to transfer the
allotment of the shop dated 26th November, 2007. The claim
is that there has been such an agreement between the parties,
which is stoutly denied by the allottee alleging fraud and
fabricated documents. It has also been alleged that opposite
party No.2 secretly staged managed the electricity
connection with an application dated 2nd April, 2025, which
was without the knowledge of the allottee. It is also alleged
that the signature in the agreement dated 5th November,
2004 does not belong to the allottee. A copy of the letter
received by opposite party No.2 dated 28th June, 2023 from
the BMC supplied along with other documents on an Page 10 of 23 application under the RTI Act is also claimed to be an act of
fraud, as according to the allottee, no such letter was ever
issued by the BMC. It is also alleged by the allottee that the
above stated document is a forged one shown to have been
issued by the Executive Officer, BMC. From the agreement
dated 5th November, 2004, it is made to understand that
there was demand of Rs.13 lac paid and received by the
allottee to opposite party No.2 with delivery of possession
of the shop. As earlier stated, the signature of the allottee
therein has been outrightly denied. The claim of possession
of the shop is based on the above documents discussed
herein before. The transfer of licence and allotment of shop
was recently applied even though the agreement is of the
year 2004. The said agreement is alleged to be fraudulent
one by the allottee. The letter of the BMC dated 28th June,
2023 purportedly signed by the Executive Officer, BMC and
placed on record from the side of the allottee reveals
transfer of ownership in respect of the shop situated inside
Unit-IV market at Bhubaneswar. According to the allottee,
fraud was perpetuated by opposite party No.2 and it was
towards transfer of the ownership of the shop. On a reading
of the said letter of the BMC, it is made to reveal that the
transfer of ownership was in pursuance of the order of this
Court and after due consideration and identification of site
by a joint survey team, whereafter, permission was accorded
for such transfer with certain terms and conditions imposed
for compliance by opposite party No.2. Quite interestingly,
the said letter of the BMC has not been referred to by Page 11 of 23 opposite party No.2 while advancing the claim of ownership
change with respect to the shop in question. The agreement
dated 5th November, 2004 is clearly denied by the allottee
and all along the plea is that opposite party No.2 committed
fraud and forcibly took over possession of the shop. On the
other hand, opposite party No.2 claims that there has been
payment to the allottee and as a result, possession of the
shop was delivered to her in 2004 and hence, it should have
been transferred by the BMC. The Authority concerned by a
cryptic order not only denied transfer of licence not being
permissible but also cancelled the allotment in favour of the
original allottee on the ground that he has violated the
norms of the BMC, as there is no any provision to sublet or
transfer of licence or mortgage of a shop by an allottee in
favour of a third party. 11. Insofar as transfer of license or ownership of the allotted
shop is concerned, it is the stand of the BMC that there is no
such provision to allow the same. But, in course of hearing,
Mr. Palit, learned Senior Advocate produced an order of this
Court in W.P.(C) No.5726 of 2012 dated 25th August, 2014
and also a copy of the proceeding of the CT Management
Group (CMG) held on 17th December, 2011 by claiming
that the transfer of allotment has already taken place earlier.
The list of original allottees and occupants with an office
order of the year 2012 of the BMC with respect to the
decision of the Government to develop Unit-I market
inviting applications for change in ownership/regularization
of possession in respect of the shop rooms is cited to claim Page 12 of 23 that there is no any such restriction or complete bar in the
transfer of license in favour of opposite party No.2 but on a
proper reading of the decision towards transfer of allotted
shop rooms in favour of the occupants in Unit-1 market,
Bhubaneswar, it is revealed that the CMG was constituted to
ensure development of Unit-1 market and to undertake such
other activities under consideration and discussed in the
meeting held on 17th December, 2011 and under peculiar
facts and circumstances prevailing then that the ownership
transfer of the shop rooms was considered. It is not a routine
or regular course that the BMC allowed the change in
ownerships. It was a policy decision of the Government in
GA Department that ownership in respect of the shop rooms
in Unit-1 market at Bhubaneswar was conceived of. In fact,
the Commissioner, BMC made a disclosure that the
shopkeepers of the market at Unit-I are demanding mutation
of the shops in the names of the occupants and hence, the
CMG had a decision to invite applications for such mutation
from the claimants decided on the basis of record and field
verification. It is to reiterate that under a special
circumstance that the ownership in respect of the shop
rooms was changed. It was indeed not a routine transfer but
a change under the circumstances detailed in the minutes of
the proceeding of 22nd meeting of the CMG held in the year
2011 and therefore, on any such ground, it would not be
proper for opposite party No.2 to demand any such transfer
of allotment or license in her favour. Though, the BMC has
not discussed in detail regarding the provision whereby Page 13 of 23 transfer of license is not allowed but the fact remains,
decision against opposite party No.2 is on the aforesaid
ground. No any provision has been brought to the notice of
the Court either from the side of opposite party No.2 to
show and satisfy that any such transfer of license of allottee
is permissible, which has not been considered by the BMC.
In such view of the matter, referring to the proceeding of the
CMG and changes in ownership in respect of the shop
rooms at Unit-I of Bhubaneswar carried out in the year
2011-2012 on the basis of a policy decision of the
Government under the special circumstances as existed by
then, the conclusion of the Court is that transfer of allotment
in respect of the shop in favour of opposite party No.2 could
not have been directed by the BMC. 12. So far as the plea of the allottee is concerned, the
contention of the petitioner is that no opportunity of hearing
was provided to him nor any reason has been assigned for
the cancellation of the allotment, when the claim is that
there has been fraud committed by opposite party No.2. The
impugned order dated 6th May, 2025 does not reveal
whether the Authority concerned conducted any enquiry
with regard to subletting of the shop by the allottee. The
allotment in respect of the shop in favour of the allottee in
the year 1996 is not in dispute. It is also revealed from the
record that a certificate of trade licence was issued in favour
of the allottee valid till 31st March, 2025. It is noticed that
opposite party No.2 was issued with a trade licence
certificate for two consecutive years in the address of the Page 14 of 23 same shop. The BMC could have enquired about the same.
That apart, a copy of the letter dated 28th June, 2023
addressed to opposite party No.2 allegedly received from
the Executive Officer, BMC has been provided to the
allottee while applying for information under the RTI Act .
The said letter accorded permission of ownership transfer in
respect of the shop in favour of opposite party No.2.
According to the allottee, no such letter was issued at any
time by the BMC to opposite party No.2. When the allottee
from the very inception alleged fraud with regard to the
documents relied on by opposite party No.2 including the
letter of the BMC dated 28th June, 2023, in the considered
view of the Court, it was for the Authority concerned to
examine the same before reaching at a conclusion that there
has been subletting of the same or handing over possession
thereof in favour of opposite party No.2 thereby violating
the BMC norms. As stated before, the Authority concerned
did not discuss anything with regard to the plea of the
allottee and assign reason for cancellation of the allotment
upon a satisfaction arrived at that the allottee is guilty of
subletting the alleged shop. Had it been that the allottee
admitted subletting while challenging the possession of
opposite party No.2 on any such ground, it would have been
held by the BMC that any such delivery of possession is not
permissible and it is amounted to subletting of the same. But
the allottee outrightly denied the agreement of 2004 and
alleged that opposite party No.2 secretly obtained the
document and even the electricity connection to the shop Page 15 of 23 and forged the letter dated 28th June, 2023 of the BMC
granting permission for transfer of ownership in respect of
the shop. Whether there was any fraud and falsehood in the
claim of opposite party No.2, it could have been easily
ascertained by the BMC with least effort. It is alright to hold
that subletting or mortgaging of a shop or transfer of license
is not allowed under the BMC norms but to outrightly
cancelling the allotment in favour of the allottee, as
according to the Court, is unreasonable, rather, it was
necessary for the Authority concerned to hold an enquiry
considering the plea of the allottee. An enquiry does not
mean receiving evidence from the parties but at least, the
BMC should have scrutinized the records to ascertain the
rival claims of the parties. It is no doubt true that when such
conduct on the part of the allottee in delivery of possession
of the shop in favour of opposite party No.2 in absence of
any such provision and without the concurrence of the BMC
cannot be countenanced but before concluding as such in
juxtaposition to the claim of fraud against opposite party
No.2, it was the bounden duty of the Authority concerned to
find out and ascertain the truth before directing cancellation
of allotment. Any such decision without proper enquiry is
certainly to prejudice the allottee, who all along alleged
fraud against opposite party No.2. Furthermore, the
impugned order dated 6th May, 2025 does not to deal with
any materials referred to and relied on by the parties. In
absence of any such provision to transfer license subletting
or mortgaging an allotted shop, the Authority concerned Page 16 of 23 though declined the demand of opposite party No.2 but
cancelled the allotment as well. A conclusion is necessary
before cancellation of allotment that the original allottee
sublet or handed over possession of the shop to opposite
party No.2. No such decision has been rendered while
dealing with the representation of opposite party No.2 with
the participation of the original allottee. Only if subletting or
delivery of possession is proved and that the original allottee
is found to be at wrong, only then, there can be cancellation
of allotment and not otherwise. 13. In the case at hand, the allottee alleged fraud and that
apart, there is nothing revealed on record from the side of
the BMC and for that matter, in the impugned order dated
6th May, 2025 to show that the allottee violated the BMC
norms with the delivery of possession of the shop and
subletting the same to opposite party No.2. The Court is
constrained to hold that the BMC ought to have considered
all such aspects as discussed herein before at least while
directing cancellation of allotment. Admittedly, at present,
opposite party No.2 claimed to be in possession. According
to the petitioner, it is a forceful possession by opposite party
No.2. A proper enquiry is necessary to ascertain how and
under what circumstances, opposite party No.2 entered into
the possession of the shop allotted to the allottee in 1996.
Unless and until an enquiry is held, the conclusion of the
Court is that it would not be proper to direct cancellation of
allotment of the shop. 14. In Bela Sethi (supra), it has been held and concluded
that any such decision by the State to the prejudice of a
person in derogation of his vested rights may be made only
in accordance with the basic rules of justice and fair play. It
is also held therein that the Authority is not in a position to
decide an action between the parties in the manner and strict
compliance with the forms of judicial procedure. It may not
be proper to insist upon such compliance but is the duty of
the Authority to provide an opportunity in course of any
such enquiry for a proper defence, which would, otherwise,
result in prejudice. The said decision was in the context of
an enquiry in the matter of cancellation of mutation and
therein, it was held by the Delhi High Court that a party to
whose prejudice and/or is intended is entitled to a hearing
applies alike to the Tribunals and other bodies or persons
invested with authority to adjudicate upon such matters
involving civil consequences. It has been concluded therein
that it is one of the fundamental rules of constitutional set
up that every citizen is protected against exercise of
arbitrary authority of the State or its officers; duty to act
judicially therefore arises from the very nature of the
function intended to perform. If an Authority is vested with
the power to decide and determine to the prejudice of a
person, the observance of the principles of natural justice is
implicit in the exercise of such power; if the principle of
audi alteram partem is ignored, any order or action taken by
an Administrative Authority is a nullity and is liable to be
set aside and therefore, the basic concept of the rule of law Page 18 of 23 transcends the significance of a decision and therefore, an
order of the State or any such Authority may only be made
in accordance with the rules of justice and fair play. The
decision of the apex Court in State of Orissa Vrs. Dr.
(Miss) Binapani Dei & others (1967) 2 SCR 625 has been
referred to therein by the Delhi High Court and at last, held
and concluded that the mutation proceeding was to be
restored for a decision in accordance with law after
providing reasonable opportunity of hearing to the party
concerned. In fact, in the above decision, the law enunciated
in Kranti Associates Private Ltd. And another Vrs.
Masood Ahmed Khan & others (2010) 9 SCC 496 was
referred to, wherein, it has been concluded that in India, the
judicial trend has always been to record reasons, even in
administrative decisions, if such decisions affect anyone
prejudicially; a quasi-judicial authority must record reasons
in support of its conclusions; recording of reasons also
operates as a valid restraint on any possible arbitrary
exercise of judicial and quasi-judicial or administrative
power. 15. In the case at hand, the Court finds that the BMC
Authority did not deal with the matter with a proper enquiry
and assigning reasons with respect to the claim of the
allottee. At least, it was for the BMC to consider and discuss
the materials on subletting of the shop in favour of opposite
party No.2 when it was stoutly denied by the allottee. The
claim is that the husband of opposite party No.2 was
allowed to manage the shop but he instead played fraud and Page 19 of 23 fabricated the documents and even obtained the permission
vis-à-vis transfer of the ownership. The allegation is that
there has been no such permission ever granted by the BMC
but opposite party No.2 manufactured the document
purportedly issued by them, a copy of which was received
by the allottee while applying for information under the RTI
Act . In the above circumstances, it was for the BMC to hold
a threadbare enquiry before directing cancellation of
allotment as it has substantially prejudiced the allottee. The
impugned order dated 6th May, 2025 does not deal with any
such matter and in absence whereof, the Court has to reach
at a conclusion that any such decision vis-à-vis cancellation
of allotment needs a re-visit. 16. Insofar as the decision cited by Mr. Palit, learned Senior
Advocate for opposite party No.2 in Motilal (supra) is
concerned, the same is not applicable to the case at hand, as
therein, exemption from sales tax was demanded by
company dealing with manufacture of Vanaspati and sought
confirmation of such exemption on the plea that the State of
Uttar Pradesh cannot be permitted to deny the same and
bound by the doctrine of promissory estoppel. In the said
case, the Apex Court considered the plea of the Government
based on waiver and since it was not pleaded, the writ
petition was never amended and came to be raised for the
first time at the time of hearing held that the same is not
permissible and thereby accepting the stand of the company
that it had acted upon the decision of the Government,
which had granted the exemption from the sales tax and Page 20 of 23 thus, could not have resiled from such promise but the case
of opposite party No.2 does not stand on any such ground. It
is not that opposite party No.2 demands transfer of
allotment on any such application made to the BMC. It is
not a case that the BMC had ever promised opposite party
No.2 towards transfer of ownership or allotment of shop or
licence issued to the original allottee, when the RTI
information revealed otherwise. Rather, the plea is based on
an agreement with the original allottee that opposite party
No.2 demanded the transfer of ownership. The BMC was
hence required to examine the plea of the allottee alone
when it concluded that there is no provision for any such
transfer of license. Therefore, the conclusion of the Court is
that the decision in Motilal (supra) is not applicable and is
not to render any assistance in support of the plea of
opposite party No.2. 17. Having said that, with the conclusion as above, the
Court is of the considered view that the BMC Authority is
required to be directed to hold an enquiry on the plea of the
allottee with regard to fraud perpetrated by opposite party
No.2 and to re-visit the decision on cancellation of allotment
of the shop. In absence of any such discussion with reasoned
order especially considering the plea of the allottee alleging
fraud, the BMC is needed to hold an enquiry and in absence
of any such concrete proof of fraud or at least to conduct an
enquiry regarding delivery of possession of the shop. The
above decision of the BMC is necessary keeping in view the
facts pleaded on record by both the sides. It is to be borne in Page 21 of 23 mind that running of a shop after an understanding with the
allottee may indeed amount to subletting making it violation
of tenancy agreement especially when it is done without the
owner's consent. It is also to be kept in mind that subletting
in a commercial context is generally defined by the transfer
of exclusive possession and control to a third party in
exchange of monetary compensation without the knowledge
or permission of the owner. If the allottee no longer
manages the business and it has been taken over entirely by
a third party, one may infer that it has been sublet. If a
tenant permits an outsider to use the shop and to conduct the
business, subletting may be presumed but where there is a
genuine partnership and the allottee retains control over the
business, it would not be considered so but any such
partnership or understanding or agreement may be subject to
scrutiny by an Authority to ensure that the same is not a
cover-up for a sublet. The said aspects are also to be
examined by the Authority concerned. If the entire episode
was without any fault of the allottee and that the possession
has been taken over by fraud, the BMC is to take action
accordingly. If allotment of the shop is non-transferable in
nature and there has been confirmation of fraud with the
information supplied by the BMC, the allottee should be
restored with the possession of the shop by whatever
measures necessary. In other words, in the interest of
justice, the Court is of the ultimate view that an enquiry is
needed for the BMC to ensure that the allottee is not guilty
of any such subletting of the shop in favour of opposite Page 22 of 23 party No.2, who in any case cannot demand transfer of
 license or ownership of the same in absence of any such
 provision in place. 18. Accordingly, it is ordered. 19. In the result, the writ petition in W.P.(C) No.20998 of
 2025 stands allowed with a direction to the BMC to
 reconsider the plea of the petitioner on cancellation of the
 license with an enquiry held and to take a decision thereon
 after providing reasonable opportunity of hearing to him at
 the earliest preferably within a period of four weeks upon
 production of a copy of this judgment keeping in view the
 discussions and observations made hereinabove. In so far as,
 the other writ petition in W.P.(C) No.19444 of 2025 is
 concerned, the same is dismissed for the reasons stated. 20. In the circumstances, however, the parties are to bear
 their respective costs. (R.K. Pattanaik)
 Judge
 Manoj Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: ROJINA SAHOO Designation: Junior Stenographer Reason: Authentication Location: OHC, CTC Date: 19-Feb-2026 18:42:59 Page 23 of 23