The present appeals are directed against the

 judgment of conviction and order of sentence dated 30.11.2012, 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. passed by learned Sessions Judge, Kangra at Dharmshala

 (learned Trial Court), vide which the appellants (accused before

 learned Trial Court) were convicted of the commission of

 . offences punishable under Section 498A and 306 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) and were sentenced as

 under:- 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

 of
 appeals are that the police presented a challan against the

 accused before the learned Trial Court for the commission of
 rt
 offences punishable under Sections 498-A and 306 , read with Section 34 of the IPC. It was asserted that the informant,

 Kashmir Singh (PW1), is the brother of Sapna @ Kiran (since

 deceased). Sapna was married to the accused Ram Pal on

 08.03.2007 as per Hindu Rites and Customs. She was kept

 properly for about one month after her marriage. Thereafter,

 accused Ram Pal, Meenki Devi and Sanjeev Kumar started

 beating and harassing her. They used to demand dowry and

 money. She used to leave her matrimonial home. The informant,

 his mother, Krishna Devi (PW3) and Shakuntla Devi (PW2) used

 to counsel the accused. The accused would apologise and assure

 not to harass Kiran in future. However, the situation did not

 improve. One daughter was born to Sapna and Ram Pal. Kashmir ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 4 Singh (PW1) went to drop Sapna in her matrimonial home on

 04.07.2008 and stayed with her. He returned to his home at about

 5:45 PM. Nobody talked to Sapna after her return to her

 . matrimonial home; rather, the accused taunted her. Sapna

 consumed some insecticide on 05.07.2008. The matter was

 reported to the police, and entry (Mark 'A') was recorded in the

 of
 Police Station. ASI Partap Singh (PW12) went to the hospital to

 verify its correctness, and entry Mark 'B' was recorded to this
 rt
 effect. ASI Partap Singh (PW12) recorded Kashmir Singh's

 statement (Ext.PW1/A), which was sent to the Police Station,

 where FIR (Ext.PW11/A) was registered. Ajay Kumar (PW7) took

 the photographs (Ext.PA to Ext.PC), which were transferred to a

 CD (Ext. PD). ASI Partap Singh (PW12) conducted the inquest on

 the dead body and prepared a report (Ext.PW1/B). He filed an

 application (Ext.PW1/C) for conducting the postmortem

 examination of Sapna. Dr R.K. Ahluwalia (PW6) and Dr. Pankaj

 Katoch conducted the postmortem of Sapna. They found that the

 cause of death was shock. They preserved the viscera and handed

 them over to the police official accompanying the dead body. They issued the report (Ext.PW6/A). The samples were sent to

 SFSL Junga for analysis, and a report (Ext.PX) was issued ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 5 mentioning that the viscera, blood sample of the deceased and

 gastric lavage contained phosphene gas. The final report issued

 by Dr R.K. Ahluwalia (PW6) stated that the cause of death was

 . shock from phosphide poisoning. The statements of witnesses

 were recorded as per their version, and after the completion of

 the investigation, the challan was prepared and presented before

 of
 the learned Judicial Magistrate First Class, Baijnath, who

 committed it to the learned Sessions Judge, Kangra, at
 rt
 Dharmshala (learned Trial Court) for trial. 3. Learned Trial Court charged the accused with the

 commission of offences punishable under Section 498A and 306 ,

 read with Section 34 of IPC, to which they pleaded not guilty and

 claimed to be tried. 4. The prosecution examined 16 witnesses to prove its

 case. Kashmir Singh (PW1) is the informant. Shakuntla Devi

 (PW2) was the Pradhan of the Gram Panchayat, who used to

 counsel the accused. Krishna Devi (PW3) is the mother, and

 Jaswant Singh (PW5) is the uncle of the deceased. Lok Ram

 (PW4) witnessed the recovery. Dr R.K. Ahluwalia (PW6)

 conducted the postmortem examination of the deceased. Ajay

 Kumar (PW7) took the photographs. HHC Uttam Chand (PW8) ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 6 carried the samples to the SFSL. MHC Punni Chand (PW9) was

 working as an MHC with whom the case property was deposited. Dr Sunita Kashyap (PW10) conducted the initial examination of

 . the deceased. SI Rajinder Pal (PW11) signed the FIR. ASI Partap

 Singh (PW12), SI Lachman Dass (PW15) and Mangat Ram (PW16)

 investigated the matter. Girdhari Lal (PW13) was told about the

 of
 harassment. Om Parkash (PW14) prepared the challan. 5. Accused in their statements recorded under Section
 rt
 313 of Cr.P.C . denied the prosecution's case in its entirety. They

 stated that prosecution witnesses were interested and made false

 statements against them under the pressure of the police. They

 claimed that they were innocent and had not committed any

 offence. They stated that they wanted to lead defence evidence,

 but subsequently, their counsel made a statement that no

 evidence was to be led. 6. Learned Trial Court held that the statements of the

 prosecution witnesses corroborated each other. It was duly

 proved on record that the accused used to harass the deceased. They were counselled not to do so, and they apologized. The

 apology made by them corroborated the prosecution's version

 regarding the harassment. Their harassment led the deceased to ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 7 commit suicide. Hence, the learned Trial Court convicted the

 accused of the commission of offences punishable under Sections

 498A and 306 of IPC, read with Section 34 of IPC and sentenced

 . them as aforesaid. 7. Being aggrieved by the judgment and order passed by

 the learned Trial Court, the accused have filed separate appeals

 of
 asserting that the learned Trial Court failed to properly

 appreciate the evidence on record. The prosecution's evidence
 rt
 was insufficient to prove that the accused had maltreated the

 deceased. The evidence was not appreciated holistically. The

 statements of interested witnesses were required to be seen with

 due care and caution. No complaint was ever made to Pradhan

 regarding the harassment, which falsifies the testimonies of the

 prosecution witnesses about the harassment of the deceased. Therefore, it was prayed that the present appeal be allowed and

 the judgment and order passed by the learned Trial Court be set

 aside. 8. I have heard Mr. Rajesh Mandhotra, learned counsel

 representing the appellant/accused, and Mr. Jitender Kumar

 Sharma, learned Additional Advocate General, for the respondent

 /State. 9. Mr. Rajesh Mandhotra, learned counsel representing

 the appellant/accused, submitted that the learned Trial Court

 erred in appreciating the evidence on record. The prosecution

 . witnesses made generalized statement regarding the harassment

 without any particulars of date, place and time. These were not

 sufficient to constitute cruelty. No complaint was made to any

 of
 authority during Sapna's lifetime regarding the harassment. Learned Trial Court failed to appreciate the evidence holistically
 rt
 and relied upon some stray sentences in the statements of

 witnesses, which is not a proper method to appreciate the

 evidence. Therefore, he prayed that the present appeals be

 allowed and the judgment and order passed by the learned Trial

 Court be set aside. He relied upon the judgments of this Court in Suresh Kumar and another vs. State of H.P. 2024:HHC:7119 and

 Ishro Devi and State of H.P. 2025:HHC:25967 in support of his

 submission. 10. Mr. Jitender Kumar Sharma, learned Additional

 Advocate General for the respondent/State, submitted that the

 prosecution witnesses consistently deposed about the

 harassment of the deceased by the accused. Shakuntla Devi

 (PW2) corroborated this fact. The efforts were made by the ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 9 relatives of the deceased to save the marriage, and failure to

 make a complaint to any authority is not fatal to the

 prosecution's case. Hence, he prayed that the present appeals be

 . dismissed. 11. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

 made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. of 12. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC 184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 286: 13. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

 SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false

 . implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

 unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It

 was observed: cautious in dealing with these complaints and must take

 pragmatic realities into consideration while dealing with
 matrimonial cases, such as allegations of harassment by the
 husband's close relations, who were living in different cities

 and never visited or rarely visited the place where the
 complainant resided, would add an entirely different
 complexion and such allegations would have to be scrutinised

 of
 with great care and circumspection. 15. Earlier, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10 SCC 184, this
 Court observed that the mere mention of statutory
 rt
 provisions and the language thereof for lodging a
 complaint is not the 'be all and end all' of the matter, as

 what is required to be brought to the notice of the Court is the
 particulars of the offence committed by each and every
 accused and the role played by each and every accused in the
 commission of that offence. These observations were made

 in the context of a matrimonial dispute involving Section 498A IPC." (Emphasis supplied) 14. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana , 2024 SCC

 OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person to face criminal

 allegations without any specific instance of criminal misconduct

 amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court. It was observed: 15. It was further held that in matrimonial disputes, the

 parents, including the close relatives, make a mountain out of a
 rt
 molehill, and every matrimonial conduct amounting to nuisance

 does not constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 16. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P., 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the

 phenomenon of false implication by a general omnibus

 allegation in the case of a matrimonial dispute is not unknown to

 the Court. It was observed: - 17. Considering the dicta in Mahmood Ali (supra), we find
 that the High Court, in this case, has failed to exercise due

 care and has mechanically permitted the criminal
 proceedings to continue despite specifically finding that
 the allegations are general and omnibus in nature. The

 Appellants herein approached the High Court on inter
 alia grounds that the proceedings were re-initiated on
 vexatious grounds and even highlighted the
 commencement of divorce proceedings by Respondent No. 2. In these peculiar circumstances, the High Court had a
 duty to consider the allegations with great care and
 circumspection so as to protect against the danger of
 unjust prosecution." 17. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 15 OnLine SC 2621, that general and vague allegations of cruelty

 made against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

 constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
 particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
 SCC 184, this court observed that: xxxx 12. The complaint also refers to a small incident where the

 of
 complainant's brother accompanied her to the
 matrimonial house when appellants no. 1 and 3 are alleged
 to have refused to take her back, but on persuasion by her
 brother, she was allowed to stay. There is also a vague
 rt
 allegation that, when the complainant gave birth to a
 second child, appellants 1 and 2 came

 and "quarrelled" with the complainant, her brother, and
 her parents and threatened them. This Court had occasion
 to examine the phenomenon of general and omnibus
 allegations in the cases of matrimonial disputes. In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC
 OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: xxxx
 13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,

 this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when
 parties are forced to go through the tribulations of a trial
 based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant

 of
 portion of the observation is as under: 18. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi

 of
 Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682, wherein

 it was observed: 20. The prosecution evidence has to be appreciated as per

 the parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 21. The informant's statement (Ext.PW1/A) does not

 contain any details of the harassment. He had made general

 allegations that the accused started harassing the deceased one

 month after her marriage. They used to demand dowry and

 money. The nature of the harassment or demand was not

 specified. It was not mentioned as to how much money was

 demanded by the accused from the deceased and whether the

 informant or any other person had satisfied the demand. Therefore, the statement (Ext.PW1/A) does not satisfy the

 requirements laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 22. Kashmir Singh (PW1) stated that all three accused

 started maltreating and insulting Sapna to meet their demand for

 dowry and money after about one month of her marriage. The

 . marriage of Sapna was solemnized without any dowry because

 she belonged to a poor family; however, her relatives gave her a

 few gifts. Sapna used to inform her relatives about the

 of
 maltreatment, beating and demand of dowry. The informant, his

 mother Krishna Devi (PW3), Shankuntla Devi (PW2) and Jaswant
 rt
 Singh (PW5) went to the house of the accused to counsel them,

 and the accused apologized. However, their behaviour did not

 improve. Sapna visited her parental home 14-15 days before her

 death, and told her relatives about the harassment. He

 accompanied the deceased to her matrimonial home on

 04.07.2008. He stayed in her matrimonial home during the night

 and returned on 05.07.2008 at about 5-6 PM. The accused

 taunted Sapna and misbehaved with her. 23. The testimony of this witness that the accused

 taunted and misbehaved with Sapna in his presence is not

 supported by his conduct. He stayed with Sapna in her

 matrimonial home till 5-6 PM and did not make any effort to

 bring her back or to counsel the accused. He had not told his ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 23 mother or Shakuntla Devi (PW2) about the harassment of the

 deceased. Therefore, it is difficult to rely upon his testimony that

 the accused had taunted the deceased in his presence. . 24. He made a general statement that accused used to

 harass the deceased and demand dowry and cash. He has not

 given the particulars of the harassment and its nature. He has

 of
 also not specified the kind of dowry or the amount of cash

 demanded by the accused. He admitted that the accused had not
 rt
 demanded any dowry at the time of the marriage because of his

 poverty. It is not explained why the accused would start

 demanding the dowry after the marriage when they were aware

 of the informant's financial condition. 25. He specifically stated in his cross-examination that

 no demand for dowry was made from him. If the accused were

 desperate to get the dowry from the deceased, nothing prevented

 them from making the demand directly from the informant. He

 admitted in his cross-examination that he had not made any

 complaint to any person during the lifetime of the deceased,

 which makes it difficult to rely upon his version that the accused

 were harassing the deceased. He claimed that he had made a

 complaint to the Pradhan of the Gram Panchayat of the accused, ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 24 but the Pradhan was not examined to establish this fact. Thus,

 the testimony of this witness cannot be relied upon to prove the

 harassment/cruelty. . 26. Shakuntla Devi (PW2) stated that Sapna was the sister

 of her daughter-in-law. The accused started maltreating,

 insulting and beating Sapna to meet the demand of dowry and

 of
 cash. The marriage of Sapna was solemnized without any dowry

 because her mother and brother were very poor, and her father
 rt
 had died before her marriage. She (Shakuntla Devi) went to the

 house of the accused to counsel them. The accused apologize but

 their behaviour did not improve. She also called Lok Ram (PW4)

 (Pradhan of Rajot) to settle the matter, but he refused to do so. Ex-Pradhan Dhogru was also associated, and he also counselled

 the accused. 27. Her testimony is also vague and general in nature. She

 has not specified the nature of the dowry or the amount of cash

 demanded by the accused. She also admitted that the marriage

 was solemnised without any dowry because the relatives of Sapna

 were poor. She claimed that she had told Lok Ram and Dhogru,

 but none of these witnesses was examined to corroborate this ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 25 version. She is the relative of the deceased, being the mother-in- law of Sapna's sister and cannot be called an independent person. 28. She admitted in her cross-examination that she had

 . not made any complaint to any person regarding the harassment. She admitted that Ram Pal was serving in Delhi and that the

 accused Ram Pal used to request the deceased to stay with him in

 of
 Delhi. She volunteered to say that the deceased had stayed in

 Delhi. She admitted that the deceased was not interested in going
 rt
 to Delhi and residing with the accused. She was not aware that

 Sanjeev Kumar was also serving outside the State. 29. Her cross-examination shows that Ram Pal was

 serving in Delhi. Therefore, he could not have harassed the

 deceased in her matrimonial home. She admitted that the

 deceased refused to reside in Delhi with her husband, which

 falsifies the version that the deceased was being harassed in her

 matrimonial home. She would have been happy to leave the

 matrimonial home where she was being harassed and settle in

 Delhi, but she refused to do so. She also admitted that she had not

 made any complaint to any person regarding the harassment. All

 these circumstances make it difficult to rely upon her testimony

 regarding the harassment of the deceased. 30. Krishna Devi (PW3) stated that the accused used to

 insult and beat Sapna for not bringing dowry. They compelled

 Sapna to bring dowry and cash from her parental home. Sapna

 . made complaints regarding the cruel behaviour and demand of

 dowry by the accused persons. She, Kashmir Singh (PW1),

 Jashwant Singh (PW5) and Shakuntla Devi (PW2) went to the

 of
 house of the accused to counsel them. The accused used to

 apologize but their behaviour did not improve. Sapna disclosed
 rt
 before her death that she had gone to Delhi with her husband and

 mother-in-law, where she was maltreated and beaten. 31. Her testimony is also vague and general in nature. She

 has not specified the nature of the dowry or the amount of cash

 demanded by the accused. She claimed that the deceased had told

 her 3-4 times about her harassment, but she did not specify the

 action taken by her to mitigate the harassment. She stated that

 she went to the matrimonial home of Sapna, where the accused

 apologised for their behaviour, but their harassment continued. She has not explained why she had not taken any action for the

 continuous harassment, even after the apology of the accused. Her statement that Sapna had gone to Delhi, where she was

 harassed, was not mentioned in the initial statement made to the ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 27 police. She admitted in her cross-examination that the husband

 of her other daughter, Kalpana, had also worked in Delhi. The

 prosecution did not examine him to prove that any complaint

 . was made by Sapna to him regarding the harassment. She

 admitted that she has not made any complaint to any person

 regarding the cruelty. Her conduct of not making any complaint

 of
 to any person does not support her statement regarding the

 harassment. 32.
 rt
 Jaswant Singh (PW5) stated that the accused started

 maltreating Sapna after 1½ months of her marriage. They used to

 beat and maltreat her for the demand of dowry. The marriage was

 solemnized without any dowry. However, he and other relatives

 had given few gifts to Sapna. Ram Pal worked in Delhi, and he

 used to visit his home in between. Sapna told him about the

 maltreatment and the demand for dowry. He went to the house of

 the accused twice to settle the matter. Krishana Devi (PW3),

 Shakuntla Devi (PW2) and Binta Devi had accompanied him to

 the house of the accused on one occasion. Krishna Devi (PW3)

 and Shakuntla Devi (PW2) had accompanied him on the second

 occasion. The accused used to apologize but their behaviour did

 not improve. He stated in his cross-examination that the ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 28 distance between his village and the village of the accused was

 about 40 kms. He had not disclosed the name of Binta Devi to the

 police. He never lodged any report to any person regarding the

 . harassment. The accused never made any demand of dowry

 before or at the time of the marriage. 33. The statement of this witness is also general and

 of
 vague. He has not mentioned the date of his visit to the house of

 the accused. His admission that he had not made any report to
 rt
 any person regarding the harassment falsifies his statement that

 the accused used to harass the deceased. 34. Girdhari Lal (PW13) stated that accused Meenki Devi

 had called him to her home because her relatives had visited her

 house. The mother of the deceased was present in the house, who

 told him that the parents-in-law of the deceased used to quarrel

 with her. He advised them to live in a cordial atmosphere. He

 stated in his cross-examination that the husband of the deceased

 and brother-in-law of the deceased used to work in Delhi. The

 deceased used to reside in a cordial manner with her parents-in- law. He had not heard any quarrel. 35. The cross-examination of this witness falsifies the

 prosecution's case. He specifically stated that he had not ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 29 seen/heard any quarrel, and the deceased used to live cordially

 with her parents-in-law. Thus, his testimony does not advance

 the prosecution's case. . 36. Girdhari Lal (PW13) admitted in his cross- examination that the accused had taken the deceased to the

 hospital. This statement shows that the accused never intended

 of
 that the deceased should commit suicide; otherwise, they would

 not have accompanied him to the hospital. The conduct of the
 rt
 accused is inconsistent with their guilt. It was laid down by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan v. Prithvi Raj , 1995

 Supp (3) SCC 410: 1995 SCC (Cri) 934 that where the accused took

 the deceased to the hospital, it is quite consistent with their

 innocence. It was observed at page 412: 37. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naresh Kumar versus the State of Haryana (2024) 3 SCC 573 that the

 prosecution is required to prove that the accused had created ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 30 such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other

 option but to commit suicide. It was observed: Vijay Kumar Mahajan [S.S. Chheena v. Vijay Kumar

 Mahajan , (2010) 12 SCC 190: (2011) 2 SCC (Cri) 465], it
 was observed as under: (SCC p. 197, para 25)

 '25. Abetment involves a mental process of
 instigating a person or intentionally aiding a
 person in doing a thing. Without a positive act
 on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in
 committing suicide, a conviction cannot be
 sustained. The intention of the legislature and
 the ratio of the cases decided by the Supreme
 Court are clear that to convict a person under Section 306 IPC, there has to be a clear mens
 rea to commit the offence. It also requires an
 active act or direct act which led the deceased ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 31 to commit suicide, seeing no option, and that
 act must have been intended to push the
 deceased into such a position that he
 committed suicide." . 18. This Court in M. Arjunan v. State [M. Arjunan v. State,

 (2019) 3 SCC 315: (2019) 2 SCC (Cri) 219], while explaining
 the necessary ingredients of Section 306 IPC in detail,
 observed as under: (SCC p. 317, para 7)

 "7. The essential ingredients of the offence under Section 306 IPC are (i) the abetment and (ii) the
 intention of the accused to aid or instigate or abet

 of
 the deceased to commit suicide. The act of the
 accused, however, insulting the deceased by using
 abusive language, will not, by itself, constitute the
 abetment of suicide. There should be evidence
 rt
 capable of suggesting that the accused intended by
 such an act to instigate the deceased to commit

 suicide. Unless the ingredients of
 instigation/abetment to commit suicide are
 satisfied, the accused cannot be convicted under Section 306 IPC." 19. This Court in Ude Singh v. State of Haryana [Ude
 Singh v. State of Haryana, (2019) 17 SCC 301: (2020) 3 SCC

 (Cri) 306], held that to convict an accused under Section
 306IPC, the state of mind to commit a particular crime

 must be visible with regard to determining the culpability.
 It was observed as under: (SCC pp. 321-22, para 16)
 "16. In cases of alleged abetment of suicide, there

 must be proof of direct or indirect acts (s) of
 incitement to the commission of suicide. It could
 hardly be disputed that the question of the cause of
 suicide, particularly in the context of an offence of
 abetment of suicide, remains a vexed one involving
 multifaceted and complex attributes of human
 behaviour and responses/reactions. In the case of an
 accusation of abetment of suicide, the court would
 be looking for cogent and convincing proof of the
 act(s) of incitement to the commission of suicide. In
 the case of suicide, a mere allegation of harassment ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 32 of the deceased by another person would not suffice
 unless there be such action on the part of the
 accused which compels the person to commit
 suicide, and such an offending action ought to be
 proximate to the time of occurrence. Whether a

 . person has abetted the commission of suicide by

 another or not could only be gathered from the facts
 and circumstances of each case. 16.1. For the purpose of finding out if a person has
 abetted the commission of suicide by another, the
 consideration would be if the accused is guilty of the

 of
 act of instigation of the act of suicide. As explained
 and reiterated by this Court in the decisions above
 referred, instigation means to goad, urge forward,
 provoke, incite or encourage to do an act. If the
 rt
 persons who committed suicide had been
 hypersensitive and the action of the accused is

 otherwise not ordinarily expected to induce a
 similarly circumstanced person to commit suicide, it
 may not be safe to hold the accused guilty of
 abetment of suicide. But, on the other hand, if the

 accused, by his acts and by his continuous course of
 conduct, creates a situation which leads the
 deceased to perceive no other option except to

 commit suicide, the case may fall within the four
 corners of Section 306 IPC. If the accused plays an

 active role in tarnishing the self-esteem and self-
 respect of the victim, which eventually draws the
 victim to commit suicide, the accused may be held

 guilty of abetment of suicide. The question of mens
 rea on the part of the accused in such cases would be
 examined with reference to the actual acts and deeds
 of the accused, and if the acts and deeds are only of
 such nature where the accused intended nothing
 more than harassment or snap show of anger, a
 particular case may fall short of the offence of
 abetment of suicide. However, if the accused kept on
 irritating or annoying the deceased by words or
 deeds until the deceased reacted or was provoked, a
 particular case may be that of abetment of suicide. Such being the matter of delicate analysis of human
 behaviour, each case is required to be examined on
 its own facts while taking note of all the
 surrounding factors having bearing on the actions
 and psyche of the accused and the deceased." . 20. This Court in Mariano Anto Bruno v. State [Mariano
 Anto Bruno v. State, (2023) 15 SCC 560: 2022 SCC OnLine SC
 1387], after referring to the above-referred decisions

 rendered in the context of culpability under Section 306 IPC, observed as under: (SCC para 45)
 "45. ... It is also to be borne in mind that in cases of

 of
 alleged abetment of suicide, there must be proof of
 direct or indirect acts of incitement to the
 commission of suicide. Merely on the allegation of
 harassment without there being any positive action
 rt
 proximate to the time of occurrence on the part of
 the accused which led or compelled the person to

 commit suicide, a conviction in terms of Section 306 IPC is not sustainable." 21. This Court in Gurcharan Singh v. State of

 Punjab [Gurcharan Singh v. State of Punjab, (2020) 10 SCC
 200: (2021) 1 SCC (Cri) 417], observed that whenever a
 person instigates or intentionally aids by any act or illegal

 omission, the doing of a thing, a person can be said to
 have abetted in doing that thing. To prove the offence of

 abetment, as specified under Section 107IPC, the state of
 mind to commit a particular crime must be visible to
 determine the culpability. 22. This Court in Kashibai v. State of Karnataka [Kashibai v.
 State of Karnataka, (2023) 15 SCC 751: 2023 SCC OnLine SC
 575], observed that to bring the case within the purview of
 "abetment" under Section 107IPC, there has to be an
 evidence with regard to the instigation, conspiracy or
 intentional aid on the part of the accused and for the
 purpose proving the charge under Section 306IPC, also
 there has to be an evidence with regard to the positive act
 on the part of the accused to instigate or aid to drive a
 person to commit suicide. 23. Had there been any clinching evidence of incessant
 harassment on account of which the wife was left with no
 other option but to put an end to her life, it could have
 been said that the accused intended the consequences of
 his act, namely, suicide. A person intends a consequence

 . when he (1) foresees that it will happen if the given series

 of acts or omissions continues and (2) desires it to happen.
 The most serious level of culpability, justifying the most
 serious levels of punishment, is achieved when both these

 components are actually present in the accused's mind (a
 "subjective" test). of 24. For intention in English law, Section 8 of the Criminal
 Justice Act, 1967, provides the frame in which the mens
 rea is assessed. It states: Under Section 8(b) , therefore, the jury is allowed wide
 latitude in applying a hybrid test to impute intent or
 foresight on the basis of all the evidence. 25. It is now well settled that in order to convict a person
 under Section 306 IPC, there has to be a clear mens rea to
 commit the offence. Mere harassment is not sufficient to
 hold an accused guilty of abetting the commission of
 suicide. It also requires an active act or direct act that led
 the deceased to commit suicide. The ingredient of mens
 rea cannot be assumed to be ostensibly present but has to
 be visible and conspicuous. 38. This position was reiterated in Patel Babubhai

 Manohardas and others vs State of Gujarat 2025 INSC 322, wherein

 it was observed: tion 309 IPC says that whoever attempts to commit suicide
 and does any act towards such an act shall be punished

 with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to
 one year or with a fine or with both. However, once suicide
 is carried out, the offence is complete. Considering the na- of
 ture of the offence, obviously, such a person would be be-
 yond the reach of the law. Therefore, the question of pe-
 nalising him would not arise, but whoever abets the com- rt
 mission of such a suicide would be penalised under Section
 306 IPC. The punishment prescribed under Section 306 IPC is imprisonment of either description for a term which

 may extend to 10 years, and shall also be liable to a fine.
 What Section 306 IPC says is that if any person commits
 suicide, then whoever abets the commission of such sui- cide shall be punished as above. 16. Therefore, the crucial word in Section 306 IPC is
 'abets'. 'Abetment' is defined in Section 107 of the IPC. As

 per Section 107 IPC, a person would be abetting the doing
 of a thing if he instigates any person to do that thing, if he

 encourages one or more person or persons in any conspir-
 acy for doing that thing or if he intentionally aids by any
 act or illegal omission in doing that thing. There are two

 explanations for Section 107. As per Explanation 1, even if
 a person, by way of wilful misrepresentation or conceal-
 ment of a material fact which he is otherwise bound to
 disclose, voluntarily causes or procures or attempts to
 cause or procure a thing to be done, is said to instigate the
 doing of that thing. Explanation 2 clarifies that whoever
 does anything in order to facilitate the commission of an
 act, either prior to or at the time of the commission of the
 act, is said to aid in the doing of that act. 17. Section 114 IPC is an explanation or clarification of Sec-
 tion 107 IPC . What Section 114 IPC says is that whenever ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 36 any person is absent but was present when the act or of-
 fence for which he would be punishable in consequence of
 the abetment is committed, he shall be deemed to have
 committed such an act or offence and would be liable to be
 punished as an abettor. . 18. In Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh (2001) 9 SCC

 618, this Court held that to 'instigate' means to goad, urge,
 provoke, incite or encourage to do 'an act'. To satisfy the
 requirement of 'instigation', it is not necessary that actual

 words must be used to that effect or that the words or act
 should necessarily and specifically be suggestive of the
 consequence. Where the accused, by his act or omission or

 of
 by his continued course of conduct, creates a situation that
 the deceased is left with no other option except to commit
 suicide, then 'instigation' may be inferred. A word uttered
 rt
 in a fit of anger or emotion without intending the conse-
 quences to actually follow cannot be said to be 'instiga-
 tion' 19. Elaborating further, this Court in Chitresh Kumar
 Chopra versus State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) (2009) 16 SCC 605
 observed that to constitute 'instigation', a person who in- stigates another has to provoke, incite, urge or encourage
 the doing of an act by the other by 'goading' or 'urging
 forward'. This Court summed up the constituents of 'abet- ment' as under: Undoubtedly, the presence of mens rea is the
 necessary concomitant of instigation. 20. Amalendu Pal alias Jhantu versus State of West Bengal (2010) 1 SCC 707 is a case where this Court held that in a
 case of alleged abetment of suicide, there must be proof of ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 37 direct or indirect act(s) of incitement to the commission of
 suicide. Merely on the allegation of harassment without
 there being any positive action proximate to the time of
 occurrence on the part of the accused which led or
 compelled the deceased to commit suicide, conviction in

 . terms of Section 306 IPC would not be sustainable. A

 similar view has been expressed by this Court in the case
 of Ude Singh versus State of Haryana (2019) 17 SCC 301 21. After considering the provisions of Sections 306 and 107 of IPC, this Court in Rajesh versus State of Haryana (2020) 15 SCC 359 held that conviction under Section 306 IPC is not sustainable on the allegation of harassment

 of
 without there being any positive action proximate to the
 time of occurrence on the part of the accused which led or
 compelled the person to commit suicide. rt 22. Abetment to commit suicide involves a mental process
 of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in
 the doing of a thing. Without a positive proximate act on

 the part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing
 suicide, a conviction cannot be sustained. Besides, in order
 to convict a person under Section 306 IPC, there has to be

 a clear mens rea to commit the offence. 23. This Court in Amudha versus State 2024 INSC 244 held
 that there has to be an act of incitement on the part of the

 accused proximate to the date on which the deceased
 committed suicide. The act attributed should not only be

 proximate to the time of suicide but should also be of such
 a nature that the deceased was left with no alternative but
 to take the drastic step of committing suicide. 24. Again, in the case of Kamaruddin Dastagir Sanadi versus
 State of Karnataka (2024) SCC Online SC 3541, this Court
 observed that discord and differences in domestic life are
 quite common in society. The commission of suicide
 largely depends upon the mental state of the victim. Until
 and unless some guilty intention on the part of the
 accused is established, it is ordinarily not possible to
 convict the accused for an offence under Section 306 IPC. 25. Prakash versus State of Maharashtra . 2024 INSC 1020 is a
 case where this Court, after analysing various decisions on ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 38 the point, summed up the legal position in the following
 manner: abetment to suicide, it is important to establish

 proof of direct or indirect acts of instigation or
 incitement of suicide by the accused, which must be
 in close proximity to the commission of suicide by

 the deceased. Such instigation or incitement should
 reveal a clear mens rea to abet the commission of
 suicide and should put the victim in such a position

 of
 that he/she would have no other option but to
 commit suicide. 25.1. In the aforesaid judgment, this Court referred to its
 rt
 earlier decision in Sanju @ Sanjay Singh Sengar versus State
 of M.P. (2002) 5 SCC 371 and held that in a given case, even
 a time gap of 48 hours between the use of abusive

 language by the accused and the commission of suicide
 would not amount to a proximate act." 39. In the present case, the evidence on record is

 insufficient to conclude that the accused had created such

 circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option

 but to commit suicide. 40. Learned Trial Court was impressed by the fact that

 witnesses had made consistent statements regarding the

 apologies, which showed that the prosecution's case was true; otherwise, the accused had no reason to apologize for their

 conduct. However, the learned Trial Court failed to appreciate

 that there was no satisfactory evidence of this fact. The witnesses ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 39 who claimed to be present on the spot at the time of the apology

 were never examined, and the prosecution relied upon the

 statements of the related witnesses. Therefore, this fact by itself

 . was not sufficient to record the conviction of the accused. 41. No other point was urged. 42. In view of the above, the judgments and order passed

 of
 by the learned Trial Court cannot be sustained; hence, the

 present appeals are allowed, and the judgments and order passed
 rt
 by the learned Courts below are set aside. The appellants/accused

 are acquitted of the commission of offences punishable under

 Sections 498A and 306 read with Section 34 of the IPC. The fine,

 if deposited be refunded to the appellants/accused after the

 expiry of the period of limitation, in case no appeal is preferred,

 and in case of appeal, the same be dealt with as per the orders of

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. 43. In view of the provisions of Section 437-A of the Code

 of Criminal Procedure [Section 481 of Bharatiya Nagarik

 Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (BNSS)], the appellants/accused are

 directed to furnish personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000/- each

 with one surety each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the

 learned Registrar (Judicial) of this Court/learned Trial Court, ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS 40 within four weeks, which shall be effective for six months with

 stipulation that in the event of Special Leave Petition being filed

 against this judgment, or on grant of the leave, the

 . appellants/accused, on receipt of notice thereof, shall appear

 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 44. A copy of this judgment, along with the records of the

 of
 learned Trial Court, be sent back forthwith. Pending

 miscellaneous application(s), if any, also stand(s) disposed of. rt
 (Rakesh Kainthla)

 Judge
 1st January, 2026
 (Nikita) ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:26 :::CIS