The American state of California is on the verge of introducing a law that would make it mandatory for any entity to obtain a licence from the state government to operate a digital asset business in the state. The bill— Digital Financial Assets Law —will become a law only if it is signed by California Governor Gavin Newsom before September 30, 2022.

The law will come into effect on January 1, 2025, if and when it is signed by Newsom. He also has the option to veto the bill which was passed by California’s assembly on August 30, 2022 with 71 yes votes and zero no votes, Coindesk reported.

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

The bill prescribes that an entity will have to apply for a licence with the California’s Department of Financial Protection and Innovation. The legislation was introduced by Timothy Grayson and sponsored by the Consumer Federation of California.

“…makes it riskier for consumers because cryptocurrency businesses are not adequately regulated and do not have to follow many of the same rules that apply to everyone else,” Grayson had said in a statement in June.

The bill has come under fire from various stakeholders who argue that the bill creates “shortsighted and unhelpful restrictions” that would impede crypto innovators’ ability to operate in California and push many out of the state.

6/ We urge all Assembly Members to reject this bill & engage with the Executive Order process as laid out by Governor Newsom. https://t.co/UWuITsKEra

— Blockchain Association (@BlockchainAssn) August 29, 2022

Why it matters: California is an important American state which offers a legislative reference point to many other American states and countries around the world. The new bill offers a glimpse into how California intends to regulate the crypto sector within its borders.

The bill, which seeks to cover digital financial assets, defines them as a “digital representation of value that is used as a medium of exchange, unit of account, or store of value, and that is not legal tender, whether or not denominated in legal tender”.

The bill stipulates that “a person shall not engage in digital financial asset business activity, or hold itself out as being able to engage in digital financial asset business activity, with or on behalf of a resident” on or after January 1, 2025.

A licence application will have to keep in mind the following requirements:

The department will have to inform the applicant of its decision to approve or deny the application once it concludes its investigation. An applicant can appeal a denial of its application within 30 days of receiving a notice from the department.

The application will be considered void if the applicant does not comply with conditions specified by the department within 31 days of the notice of the conditions.

The bill also mandates that a licensee will have to maintain a “surety bond or trust account in US dollars which will be determined by the department for the protection of users that engage with the platform.

The state can use the security to pay claims made against the licensee’s digital financial asset business activity by a resident. “A claimant does not have a direct right to recover against security deposited…,” read the bill.

The licensee has also been directed to maintain a certain amount of capital to ensure its financial integrity. The capital can be in the form of cash, digital financial assets, or high-quality, highly liquid, investment grade assets.

An entity will have to renew its licence every year on or before September 15 by paying a renewal fee which will cover reasonable costs of regulation.

The report will have to include information on material change in the financial condition of the licensee, material litigation related to the licensee’s business, any federal or state investigation involving the licensee, or a data security breach.

A licensee will have to make certain disclosures as decided by the department which are necessary for the protection of users.

A licensee has to make the following disclosures:

Offering investment advice

The licensee has to act in the best interest of the user at the time of making a recommendation over an investment strategy without worrying about the financial or other interest of the licensee. They will have to reveal conflicts of interest associated with the recommendation.

“The telephone line shall be operative 24 hours per day, Monday through Sunday, excluding federal holidays,” read the bill.

Press Release: Consumer Federation of California Sponsored Digital Asset/Cryptocurrency Licensing Bill Sent to Governor with Strong Bipartisan Support @AsmGrayson #AB2269 #CALeg pic.twitter.com/1J0mWio8xE

— Consumer Federation of California (@consumercal) August 30, 2022

The department has the power to examine the business and office of any licensee to ascertain whether the business is being conducted in a lawful manner and whether all digital financial asset business activity is properly accounted for under the bill.

The examination can be carried out without any prior notice. The company’s executives will have to furnish accounts, books, correspondence, memoranda, papers, and other records to facilitate the examination.

The entity has been asked to maintain a user’s data for five years. Furthermore, the department can share and jointly examine records and other information with other regulatory agencies including a regulator of a jurisdiction outside the US.

The bill enables the department’s powers to take action against a licensee or person that is not registered but continues to conduct business activity.

“If a licensee materially violates a provision of this division, the department may assess a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) for each day of violation or for each act or omission in violation,” read the bill.

Revoking licence: A licence can be revoked one day after the department has sent a notice to the licensee. The suspension is also effective within one day of the notice being sent to the licensee.

The bill directs an applicant to create and maintain policies and procedures for all of the following:

Tackling fraud: The bill lays down the following measures which should be included in an entity’s policy—

The bill prevents a licensee from exchanging, transferring, or storing a stablecoin or engaging in its administration.

The bill makes an exception only if the stabelocin is issued by the department or a bank. Moreover, the bill states that the provision will become inoperative on January 1, 2028.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event