1. Heard Sri Shailendra, learned Counsel for the petitioner and Sri S.S. Sharma, learned Standing Counsel for the State. In this writ petition the prayer has been made to quash the order dated 21.5.1998 and again order dated 28.11.1998 and the Enquiry Report enclosed as (Annexures No. 9, 11 and 6) respectively. It appears that the petitioner was initially appointed as Constable in Provincial Arms Constabulary in 15 Batallian P.A.C., Agra on 1.1.1986. The petitioner was alleged to have stolen identity card, driving licence and diary of one drawer Amar Singh. Within one day inquiry was completed and petitioner was dismissed from service. The petitioner preferred an appeal against the dismissal order which was allowed by D.I.G., P.A.C., Agra dated 30.6.1996 (Annexure-1). Fresh charge-sheet was issued on 27.12.1996 against the petitioner in reference to incident of 22.1.1996 and in reference to the allegations prior to 22.1.1996 in which enquiry was already been pending and one Kunwar Pal Singh, Assistant Commandant, 45 Bn. PAC, Aligarh, was the enquiry officer and the statement of Mitra Prakash Tiwari and Ravindra Yadav, both Constables and Amar Singh whose diary etc. were alleged to have been stolen, were recorded. It appears that in all the statements were some contradiction and there is no direct evidence where it could be said that the petitioner has stolen the alleged items. The enquiry officer Sri Kunwar Pal Singh has submitted the report on 23.4.1998 (Annexure-6). In reference to the show cause notice the petitioner was allowed 8 days time to give a response. The petitioner on 16.5.1998 wrote a letter seeking some more time on the ground his son is not well. Letter of request is enclosed as (Annexure-8). Petitioner was not granted time and an ex-parte decision dated 21.5.1998 was taken which is the impugned order of the present writ petition. The petitioner preferred an appeal before the Dy. Inspector General of Police who after considering the same dismissed on 22.7.1998 (Annexure-10) and appeal preferred against the above order 21.5.1998 before the D.I.G. Police which was dismissed on 28.11.1998 which is also an impugned order in the writ petition. 2. The counter and rejoinder-affidavit has been exchange. 3. The points/issued raised by the petitioner for consideration before this Court is :- English Transaction is as under : The Uttar Pradesh Police Officers of the Sub-ordinate Ranks (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1991 Rule 4 reads as below :- 4. In addition to the punishments mentioned in Sub-rules (1) and (2) Constables may also be punished with Fatique duty, which shall be restricted to the following tasks : Rule 13 of U.P. Police Officer of the Sub-ordinate Ranks (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1991, which provides as below :- 5. In Mirza Barket Ali v. Inspector General of Police, Allahabad and Ors. , (2002) 2 UPLBEC 1871. The Police Constable was dismissed for absent in duty of 109 days on the ground of illness. The Inquiry Officer recommended for minors punishment however, S.P. disagreed and imposed punishment of dismissal. High Court found that the punishment is too harsh and severe/disproportionate allegations and directed for awarding lessor punishment. Punishment to be imposed-discretion of the Disciplinary Authority :- But, when the Police Constable working as Gunman of Deputy Commissioner of Police while on duty was wandering near the bus stand with service revolver in a heavily drunken condition and when he was brought to Hospital he began abusing the Doctor on duty, the imposition of penalty of dismissal of service cannot be held to be disproportionate because the Constable was guilty of gravest misconduct. [ State of Punjab v. Ex. Constable Ram Singh , (1992) 4 SCC 54 : 1992 SCC (L and S) 793 : (1992) 21 ATC 435]
 

(C) When the charge of misconduct against the Civil Judge in disposing of the Land Acquisition Reference cases have been proved partially and for fixing higher valuation of land than was legitimate in L.A. Reference was not proved for which he can be given benefit of doubt, the Supreme Court has modified the penalty, of dismissal to compulsory retirement. V.R.P. Katarki v. State of Karnataka , AIR 1991 SC 1241; 1991 Supp. (1) SCC 267; 1991 SCC (L and S) 1043 : (1991) 16 ATC 555; 1991 Lab. IC 1001. In another case, when the employee had 29 years of unblemished record and PSC on consultation had not agreed to the proposal of dismissal, but he was dismissed, the Supreme Court, after the death of employee, held that the evidence in support of the charges which led to dismissal was not very strong and in order to grant relief to poor widow, the punishment of dismissal should be converted to compulsory retirement so that the widow will get the appropriate financial benefit. [Kartar Singh Grewal v. State of Punjab, AIR 1991 SC 1067 : (1991) 2 SCC 635 : 1991 SCC (L and S) 780 : (1991) 2 LLN 54 : 1991 Lab IC 1082]. However, even though, the Supreme Court has power to modify the penalty imposed by the Disciplinary Authority in exercise of equitable jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution, but the High Court or the Administrative Tribunal has no such jurisdiction to interfere with the punishment imposed by the Disciplinary Authority. This is the view of the Supreme Court in Samarendra Kishore Endow's case, (1994) 2 SCC 537 : 1994 SCC (L and S) 687 : (1994) LLJ 872 (SC) : 1994 (1) SLR 516 (SC). It is held that the High Court/Administrative Tribunal cannot interfere with the punishment if imposed after holding enquiry and if it is considered that the punishment imposed is harsh, the proper course is not to modify the penalty but to remit the matter to the Appellate or Disciplinary Authority. The Supreme Court has observed as follows : The Police Constable who was dismissed on account of absence without leave from 7th November, 1986 to 1st March, 1988 on holding the departmental enquiry filed civil suit challenging such punishment on the ground that the disciplinary rules, applicable to his provided that the dismissal could be resorted to if there was a gravest Act of misconduct. The trial Court dismissed the suit on the ground that it could not interfere with the order of punishment imposed in a disciplinary proceedings. But, the Appellate Court remanded the matter for reconsideration of the trial Court on the point of punishment. The Supreme Court has disapproved the order passed by the Appellate Court. It is held that it is for the Disciplinary Authority to pass appropriate punishment and the Civil Court cannot substitute its own view to that of disciplinary as well as that the Appellate Authority on the nature of punishment to be imposed upon the delinquent, as he was absent without any leave for over one and half years it ought to not to have interfered with the degree passed by the trial Court dismissing the suit. [State of Punjab v. Bakshi Singh, AIR 1997 SC 2696 : (1997) 6 SCC 381 : 1997 SCC (L and S) 1510 : (1997) 2 LLN 1097 : 1997 (4) SLR 590]. The Supreme Court has also held that when on the charge of demand and acceptance of illegal gratification by the Inspector of Police, the Inspector has been dismissed from service, then the Police Officer being guilty of grave misconduct resorting the corruption, there is no occasion for interference with the order of punishment imposed by the Disciplinary Authority. [ Government of A.P. v. B. Ashok Kumar , AIR 1997 SC 2447 : (1997) 5 SCC 478 : 1997 SCC (L and S) 1215 : 1997 (4) SLR 242 : (1997) 2 LLN 600 : 1997 Lab IC 2353]. (J) When a Bus Conductor was charged for taking certain passengers without tickets and on holding departmental enquiry he was found guilty and the Disciplinary Authority removed the respondent from the post of the Conductor, he moved the High Court challenging the order of removal. The High Court while concurring with the finding of the Authority that the charges, levelled against the respondent were proved held that the punishment awarded did not commensurate with the gravity of the charge. On that basis the High Court set-aside the punishment and directed the reinstatement of the respondent. Being aggrieved an appeal by special leave has been filed by the Corporation before Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has held that it has consistently taken the view that under the judicial review the Court shall not normally interfere with the punishment imposed by the Authority and this will be more so when the Court found the charges were proved and interference with the punishment on the factors of the case cannot be sustained. [ U.P. Road Transport Corporation v. A.K. Parul, Cal . LT 1999 (1) SC 77]. When the respondent, a Police Constable was dismissed from service on the ground that he illegally extracted money from the Autorickshaw Driver by misusing his official position then the interference by the Administrative Tribunal with the penalty imposed by the Departmental Authority is not warranted in this case, because, it is only in a case where the punishment was totally irrational in the sense that it was in outrageous defiance of logic or moral standard that a Court or Tribunal can interfere with the punishment imposed by the Administrative Authority. As in this case, the Police Constable was guilty of grave misconduct, there was no reason as to why the Tribunal should interfere with the punishment imposed by the Disciplinary Authority. [ State of Karnataka v. H. Nagraj , (1998) 9 SCC 671]. 6. In 2001 (2) AWC 983, Sahdev Singh v. U.P Public Service Tribunal, Lucknow and Ors. This Court Hon'ble M. Katju and Onkareshwar Bhatt, JJ., decided on 19th February, 2001, the Writ Petition No. 1722/99, where the petitioner a confirmed Police Constable hand consumed liquor in the night, was charge sheeted and after inquiry was dismissed from service. His appeal was rejected and his claim petition before U.P. Public Service Tribunal was also dismissed. In writ petition this Court has observed that before the Tribunal neither the petitioner has said anything in his defence nor produce any witness but prayed for forgiveness and assured that he will not commit such Act again in future. In these circumstances, this Court had indicated that a lenient view should be taken against the petitioner and for awarding some lesser punishment taking view the sense of Shakspeares Merchant of venice, justice should be tempered with mercy. In these circumstances, the Court has found the punishment of dismissal is too harsh and set-aside the order of dismissal and directed the petitioner to be reinstated in service with 25% of the back wages from the date of the dismissal to the date of reinstatement. 7. In (1985) I Supreme Court Cases 120, Hussaini v. Chief Justice of High Court of Judicature at Allahabad and Ors., the appellant was working as a Sweeper and was placed under suspension for derogation of duty and was dismissed from service after enquiry. At the time of dismissal he had rendered service over 20 years and was denied retirement benefits such as pension, provident fund and gratuity to which he would have been entitled if he was compulsorily retired from service. The Supreme Court has observed that the appellant was a lowpaid Government servant, therefore, the order of punishment of dismissal might have been converted into compulsory retirement on compassionate ground so, that the appellant may get retiral benefits and the Supreme Court observed that the appellant was a lowpaid safai jamadar. We do not propose to minimise the gravity of his misconduct for which the High Court thought fit to impose maximum punishment of dismissal from service simultaneously denying him all retiral benefits. Without in any manner detracting from the view taken by the High Court we are of the opinion that there is some scope for taking a little lenient view in the matter of punishment awarded to the appellant. The lenience if at all would render the post-dismissal life of the lowpaid employee a little tolerable and keep him away from the penury destitution. 8. In AIR 1994 SC 604, Union of India and Ors. v. Giriraj Sharma . It was held that the punishment of dismissal for over-staying the period of 12 days, on account of unexpected circumstances which have not been controverted in the counter in harsh since the circumstances show that it was not his intention to wilfully flout the order, but the circumstances forced him to do so. It was open to the authority to visit him with a minor penalty, but the major penalty of dismissal from service was not called for. 9. In AIR 1994 SC 215, Union of India and Ors. v. Giriraj Sharma . In this case, the respondent who was deputed to undergo a course as an electrician sought leave for 10 days which he was granted and while on leave he sent a Telegram for extension of leave for 12 days which request was rejected, however, the respondent joined duty after over staying period of 12 days and for this misdemeanour his services came to be terminated and his departmental appeal and revision were also rejected, whereupon he filed a writ petition in the High Court challenging the order of termination and the writ petition was allowed with a direction to reinstate his service with all monetary and other service benefits. The Supreme Court did not find merit in the appeal preferred by Union of India but has been pleased to modify the order of the High Court by stating that as there was no wilful intention to flout the order on the part of the respondent and punishment was treated to be harsh and disproportionate, therefore, relief with monetary benefits was granted to the minor punishment. 10. In (1997) 6 Supreme Court Cases 381, State of Punjab and Ors. v. Bakshish Singh , where the respondent a Police Constable was dismissed on account of absence without leave from 7.11.1986 to 1.3.1988. The disciplinary rules applicable to him provided that dismissal could be resorted to, if there was a "gravest Act of misconduct". The trial Court dismissed the suit but the Appellate Court remanded the matter for reconsideration by the trial Court on the point of punishment. It was held by the Supreme Court that it is for the Disciplinary Authority pass appropriate punishment; the Civil Court cannot substitute its own view to that of the disciplinary as well as the Appellate Authority On the nature of the punishment to be imposed upon the Delinquent Officer. The Appellate Court, in view of its own findings, that the respondent's conduct was grave, ought not have interfered with the decree of trial Court. 11. In ( 1998) 9 SCC 220, U.P.S.R.T.C. and Ors. v. Har Narain Singh and Ors. , where a disciplinary enquiry was held against the respondent who was a Bus Conductor in the Appellant's Corporation. The Assistant Regional Manager of the appellant himself conducted the enquiry and found that the charges against the respondent are proved and issued a show cause notice on the punishment and after considering the reply of the respondent imposed a punishment from dismissal of service on the respondent who preferred an appeal before the Regional Manager which too was dismissed. In claim before the Lahore Tribunal held that it had no jurisdiction in the matter. Thereafter, the respondent preferred a writ petition before the U.P. Public Services Tribunal at Lucknow, and the Tribunal dismissed the writ petition and held that there is no illegality in the conduct of the enquiry and the enquiry officer cannot be said to be perverse or against merit on the record. Against this judgment of the Tribunal the respondent filed writ petition before High Court where a Single Judge of the High Court re-appreciated the evidence led in the enquiry and quashed the order passed by the Tribunal as also the order passed by the Disciplinary Authority. The Supreme Court has held that because the High Court was not- sitting in appeal over the findings given by the Disciplinary Authority as such the re-examination of the evidence led in the disciplinary proceedings was not warranted. The impugned judgment and order of the High Court were set-aside and the order of the Tribunal was restored. 12. In ( 2000) 3 SCC 324, U.P. State Road Transport Corporation v. Subhash Chandra Sharma and Ors. , that the delinquent Driver respondent of Corporation went in a drunken State to the Assistant Cashier in the cash room, demanded money from him and on his refusal abused and threatened to assault him held was a serious charges of misconduct and the punishment of removal awarded after the said charge was found proved in a Departmental Enquiry. The said punishment by stopping and payment of 50% back weages. High Court found that the judgment of Allahabad High Court was arbitrary and was not justified. The Supreme Court found that the opinion of the High Court was erroneous in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 to correct the erroneous order of Labour Court as the punishment of removal was not stood as disproportionate and in order to arrive at such decision the Supreme Court consider the following judgment of the High Court in B.C. Chaturvedi v. Union of India , ( 1995) 6 SCC 749 and Colour-Chem Ltd. v. A.L. Alaspurkar , ( 1998) 3 SCC 192 and Hind Construction and Engg. Co. Ltd. v. Workmen , AIR 1965 SC 917. 13. However, the Supreme Court in (2000) 2 UPLBEC 1195, in another case of U.P. State Road Transport Corporation and Ors. v. Mahesh Kumar Mishra and Ors. , while considering the B.C. Chaturvedi 's case, (supra) and Colour- Chem Ltd. , (supra) and also in reference to the Civil Appeal No. 9754 of 1995, Arising out of SLP (C) No. 1960 of 1994, UP. State Road Transport Corpn. and another v. Om Prakash Pandey, in which the order of High Court by which interference was made with the punishment inflicted upon the delinquent employee of the Corporation was set-aside. In Mahesh Kumar Mishra the Supreme Court has interfered with the quantum of punishment inflicted the Disciplinary Authority. The Conductor of Local City Bus was dismissed from service on the allegations that all passengers were without tickets and on the dispute whether the passengers boarded a High Court on Zero Road and what tickets should charged and what rate. In domestic enquiry no passenger examined. In these condition the punishment on the face of highly and interference of the High Court in the quantum of punishment of dismissal was found to be justified. 14. It was held by the Supreme Court that the punishment must be commensurate to the offence, vide Sardar Singh v. Union , AIR 1992 SC 417. In (1992) 2 UPLBEC 851, Girja Shanker Singh v. General Manager, U.P.S.R.T.C- II, Varanasi and another, this Court (Hon'ble M. Katju, J.) has interfered in the quantum of punishment of termination and directed for reinstatement of petitioner on the charge of coming late while deployed on to operate the Bus and refusing to operate the Bus and using insulting language to the ARM. and the punishment was concurrently approved by the enquiry officer, Disciplinary Authority and Appellate Authority. The finding the punishment is not consonance to the allegations and charges, the same was directed and the authorities were directed to pass lessor punishment. 15. In 1998 SCC (L and S) 15, U.P.S.R.T.C. v. Basudev Chaudhary and Anr., where the Conductor worked in the Corporation recovered fair at higher rate and entered in the Bills at lower rate per head passenger and the manipulation in the fair for such misconduct and attempt to cause loss of money to the Corporation. The offence was treated to be in serious nature and punishment of removal held to be justified and not disproportionate. The Supreme Court in Basudev Chaudhary has distinguished, the case of Bhagat Ram, 1983 (sic) 442 and Gulzar v. State of Punjab, 1986 Suppl. SCC 738. In 1996 SCC (L and S) 539, Municipal Committee Bahadurgarh v. Krishna Bihari and Ors., where the respondent was convicted Under Section 468 IPC by Criminal Court for committing forgery and the Municipal Committee imposed punishment of dismissal which was reduced to stoppage of four increments by Director of Local Bodies and appeal to the Commissioner preferred by Municipal Committee the same was dismissed and writ petition filed by the Municipal Committee. In these circumstances civil appeal preferred by the Municipal Committee before the Supreme Court while uphold the punishment of dismissal has observed that the amount misappropriate may be small or large, it is the Act misappropriation i.e., relevant, therefore, the punishment was not to be interfered, with, (2002) 1 UPLBEC 82, Sri Bhagwan Krishna Pandey, Meerut v. U.P.S.RT.C, Meerut, where dismissal of Bus Conductor for carrying eight passengers without tickets in a Bus and for not collecting proper fair from the passenger, the punishment of dismissal indicated by the enquiry officer and affirmed by the Disciplinary Authority was found to be disproportionate directing the authorities replacing the punishment by a minor punishment, however, this case cannot be applied. In the facts of the case, as the High Court in Bhagwan Krishna Pandey has failed to receive proposed punishment was under challenged shockingly disproportionate. 16. In (2002) 3 UPLBEC 2799 (SC), State of U.P. and Ors. v. Ramakant Yadav (Hon'ble G.B. Pattanayak and H.K. Sema, JJ.), the view of the High Court in not interfering the punishment was an error whether the Constable for the alleged charge of sleeping in duty to guard armoury was on an inquiry was found to be guilty and dismissed by the Disciplinary Authority and affirmed by the U.P. Public Services Tribunal such dismissal was interfered on preferring the writ petition. The High Court had interfered in the said punishment of dismissal with an observation that the finding of guilt is not a finding of fact and High Court has no jurisdiction to interfere in the finding and indicated that the punishment was disproportionate and was set-aside the dismissal of the order with direction to reinstatement of the petitioner with a payment of 50% back wages. 17. In ( 2003) 1 UPLBEC 566 (SC), Director General, R.P.F. v. Ch. Sai Babu (Hon'ble Shivaraj V. Patil and Arijit Pasayat, JJ), where quantum of punishment from removal from service imposed for the alleged charges under Rule 153 Railway Protection Force Rules, 1987, was found proved by the Enquiry Report and affirmed by the Disciplinary Authority as well as Appellate/Revisional Authority and the same was interfered with by the High Court by substituting dismissal from stoppage of increment with cumulative effect and reinstatement of the petitioner the decision of the High Court interfering in the punishment of removal on the ground of shockingly disproportionate was not found justifiable by the Supreme Court as it was not supported by recording of reasons. 18. In 2002 (93) FLR 616 (SC),.(Hon. G.B. Pattanaik and Brijesh Kumar, JJ.), ( State of Rajasthan and Ors. v. Sujata Malhotra ), where the respondent absented from 1983 to 1987 and Departmental Inquiry was initiated and termination order was passed. The High Court found the punishment was grossly disproportionate and set-aside the termination and re-instated the writ petition with 50% of back wages, in these circumstances, the Supreme Court has observed that the High Court should not have interfered with the punishment however since the reinstatement had taken place that order was not touched and the respondent employee did not get back wages and the period of absence were treated for retirement benefits but, not for pecuniary benefits. 19. In JT 2003 (2) SC 27 (2003) 2 UPLBEC 1047 (SC), Regional Manager, UPSRTC, Etawah v. Hote Lal and Ors. (Hon'ble Shivaraj V. Patil and Arijit Pasayat, JJ.), where the respondent employee Conductor for dereliction of duty, for violation of employment code and misappropriation and extraction of money from the passenger for not issuing the tickets was enquired into by a retired District Judge and was found guilty and was termination, which was affirmed by Appellate Authority, the punishment too was affirmed by Single Judge of High Court, however, Division Bench of the High Court set-aside the order of termination leaving it open to the employer to award other punishment except termination or compulsory retirement while allowing the appeal of U.P.S.R.T.C. in those circumstances the Supreme Court held that High Court Division Bench has not recorded any reason for consideration of disproportionate punishment and as such there was denial of justice and mere statement that the punishment is disproportionate was not sufficient in cases where the persons deals with the public money or is engaged in financial transaction Acts in fiduciary capacity as such are to be dealt with by an iron hands. As such, the order of High Court (DB) was set-aside and the dismissal order of the High Court (DB) was upheld. 20. In JT 2003 (2) SC 78, (2003) 1 UPLBEC 840 (SC), Chairman and Managing Director, United Commercial Bank and Ors. v. P.C. Kakkar , the Supreme Court (Hon'ble Shivaraj V. Patil and Arijit Pasayat, JJ.), has analysed, in the matter of quantum of punishment in respect of respondent Bank Officer when he was found to be involved in financial irregularities, dereliction of duty, misappropriation of fund and whose service was dispensed with, however, the High Court found the charges proved, nevertheless accepted the plea of the respondent employee and directed the respondent Bank to impose lessor punishment without recording any reason as to why it considered the punishment to be disproportionate. The Supreme Court held that when the High Court finds that the punishment is shockingly disproportionate and could not meet the requirement of law, therefore, in the facts of the case since the charges against the respondent employee were not in casual nature and was serious nature, therefore, the High Court was not justified in interfering the quantum of punishment and the matter was remitted to the High Court for fresh consideration only with regard to the quantum of punishment. 21. In 1996 (Vol. 2) LLJ (sic), Shri Panchaman Manna v. Indian Oil Corporation, Haldia, Madinapur and Ors., the Calcutta High Court has found the scope of judicial review in analysing the disproportionate aspect of punishment inflicted upon the writ petitioner for the misconduct and the High Court, indicating the punishment should be commensurate with the nature of misconduct alleged upon. Similar view was taken by the High Court, Bombay in 1992 (Vol. 1), LLJ (sic), Abdullah A. Latif Shah v. Bombay Port Trust. 22. In JT 2003 (2) SC 78, (2003) 1 UPLBEC 840 (SC), Chairman and Managing Director, United Commercial Bank and Ors. v. P.C. Kakkar (Hon'ble Shivaraj V. Patil and Arijit Pasayat, JJ.), the observations made in Paragraphs 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 read as below :- 8. In Om Kumar and Ors. v. Union of India, JT 2000 (3) SC 92 : 2001 (2) SCC 386, this Court observed, inter alia, as follows : Lord Templeman also said in the above case that the Courts could go into the question whether a reasonable minister could reasonably have concluded that the interference with this freedom was justifiable. He said that "in terms of the Convention" any such interference must be both necessary and proportionate (ibid pp. 750-51). In the famous passage, the seeds of the principle of primary and secondary review by Courts were planted in the administrative law by Lord Bridge in the Brind case, (1991) 1 AC 696. Where Convention rights were in question the Courts could exercise, a right of primary review. However, the Courts would exercise a right of secondary review based only on Wednesbury. principles in case not affecting the rights under the . Convention. Adverting to cases where fundamental freedoms were not invoked and where administrative action was questioned, it was said that the Courts were then confined only to a secondary review while the primary decision would be with the administrator. Lord Bridge explained the primary and secondary review as follows : But, when an administrative action is challenged "arbitrary" under Article 14 on the basis of Royappa, 1974 (2) SCR 348, (as in cases where punishments in disciplinary cases, are challenged), the question will be whether the administrative order is "rational" or "reasonable" and the test then is the Wednesbury test. The Courts would then be confined only to a secondary role and will only have to see whether the administrator has done well in his primary role, whether he has acted illegally or has omitted relevant factors into consideration or whether his view is one which one which no reasonable person could have taken. If his action does not satisfy these Rules, it is to be treated as arbitrary in G.B. Mahajan v. Jalgaon Municipal Council, JT 1991 (1) SC 605, Venkatachalian, J., (as he then was) pointed out that "reasonableness" of the administrator under Article 14 in the context of administrative law has to be judged from the stand point of Wednesbury Rules. In Tata Cellular v. Union of India, JT 1994 (4) SC 532 (at pp. 679-80); Indian Express Newspapers Bombay (P) Ltd. v. Union of India , 1985 (2) SCR 287), Supreme Court Employees' Welfare Assn. v. Union of India, (JT 1989 (3)SC 188) and U.P. Financial Corpn. v. Gem . Cap (India) (P) Ltd., JT 1993 (2) SC 226, while judging whether the administrative action is "arbitrary" under Article 14 { i.e., otherwise then being discriminary), this Court has confined itself to a Wednesbury review always. The principles explained in the last preceding paragraph in respect of Article 14 are now to be applied here where the question of "arbitrariness" of the order of punishment is questioned under Article 14. xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx
 

Thus, from the above principles and decided cases, it must be held that whether an administrative decision relating to punishment in disciplinary cases in questioned as "arbitrary" under Article 14 , the Court is confined to Wednesbury principles as a secondary reviewing authority. The Court will not apply proportionality as a primary reviewing Court because no issue of fundamental freedoms nor of discrimination under Article 14 applies in such a context. The Court while reviewing punishment and if it is satisfied that Wednesbury principles are violated, in has normally to remit the matter to the administrator for a fresh decision as to the quantum of punishment. Only in rare cases, where there has been long delay in the time taken by the disciplinary proceedings and in the time taken in the Courts, and such extreme or rate cases can by the Court substitute its own view as to the quantum of punishment." 23. I have heard learned Counsel for the parties, I find that that some deficiency in the part shall not vitiate the entire proceedings in totality of the procedure and for the endeavourance on the part of the respondent enquiry has been concluded. The petitioner was charged for alleged theft of identity card, diary and licence, which could have been re-coconstituted and for much to be said on the enquiry, the manner of enquiry and for such allegations the dismissal is not proper and for these reasons the punishment appears to be shockingly disproportionate. Therefore, keeping in view the charge and allegations it appears that the punishment awarded is disproportionate to the petitioner. In these circumstances, the order of punishment is set-aside and the matter is relegated back to the authority concerned to consider the lessor punishment. 24. In view of the above observation the writ petition is disposed of.