Apple has announced that it will be adding call and message screening features for users with its iOS 26 update. The Cupertino-based tech giant revealed this during its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) 2025 . The company has revealed very few details about how the new feature would function. However, Apple did state that the new tool would help in “eliminating distractions like unwanted calls.” This raises the question: How is Apple determining which calls and messages can cause interruptions?

The iPhone maker is going to use its Live Voicemail feature to take phone calls for the users before they even pick up the call. To “eliminate interruptions,” the voicemail tool will ask the unknown callers on the other side their identity and the purpose of the call. With the help of the transcription tool, the Apple device would show the users what the other person is saying.

On one hand, this might allow iPhone owners to ignore calls that might be malicious or from spammers. But there is a chance that the transcription tool falters, and the user might miss an important call.

This also raises privacy concerns. Will the device inform the caller that an automated answering feature is seeking such information? Also, what if the person receiving the call is not around and the transcription is being read by someone around the smartphone?

Another concern that comes to the fore is whether there will be an opt-out feature.

The Cupertino-based company also announced that it will roll out a message filter with its next iOS update. The Apple device will soon be able to screen text messages from unknown senders. Such messages will appear in a dedicated folder, separate from the conversation list. The company said that the users will be able to mark such conversations as either known, ask for more information, or delete. The Apple devices will keep such conversations silent till a user marks them as known.

Here again, there is a possibility of a user missing important text messages from numbers they have not saved. This feature might turn into another spam folder that a user never checks unless someone specifically asks them to. This raises the question: Will Apple place messages from all unknown contacts in a separate folder, or will it screen each message only from unknown senders?

If the company fails to address these concerns before rolling it out in September 2025 with Apple’s iPhone 17 series, it might cause serious problems for iPhone users.

This is not the first time that a tech giant has announced in-call protection features for smartphone users.

In May 2025, Google announced that it will start rolling out in-call scam protection features for Android devices with its latest operating system update. With this, the Android devices will be able to disable certain features and display alerts when a user is on a call with an unknown contact. On top of this, the US-based company will also roll out protections for banking apps and expand real-time scam detection for text messages. This came after the tech giant started rolling out an AI-based feature for Google Messages in March 2025 to protect Android users from text message scams.

Apart from US tech giants, Indian telecom service providers (TSPs) have also been trying to integrate similar features to protect their subscribers. In May 2025, Bharti Airtel announced that it is rolling out a network-level system that blocks malicious links across WhatsApp, Telegram, Instagram, email, browsers, and SMS. The telecom company has auto-enabled this AI-powered feature for all mobile and broadband users.

Recently, in a letter seen by MediaNama, Airtel urged its market competitors Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea to join forces to curb the “menace” of telecom fraud. The company also sent letters to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) informing them of the same.

Given the rising cases of telephonic and text message-based frauds and scams, it becomes important that companies take a step in this direction.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event