VINOD K.SHARMA, J. O.A.No.436 of 2012
		The plaintiff/applicant has filed this application for grant of interim injunction restraining the defendants/respondents, their men, servants, agents, or assigns or any other person claiming under them from in any manner proceeding with the arbitration proceedings (Case No.ARC/SA/RSL/138/2012) pending before the fifth respondent sole arbitrator, pending disposal of the suit. A.No.2319 of 2012: 2 The learned counsel for the applicant/ plaintiff would contend that there is no agreement for referring the disputes between the parties for arbitration. A perusal of Clauses 8.2. and 8.3 of the Memorandum of Understanding, dated 29.1.2010 entered into between the parties would indicate that there is no provision for referring the dispute to an arbitrator. It is also evident that the parties themselves have agreed to agitate the disputes or differences, if any, before the Civil Court at Chennai. The learned counsel for the petitioner would further contend that the fifth respondent had originally sent an e-mail dated 31.3.2012 stating that he was appointed as an arbitrator by the respondents 1 to 4 as per the clauses contained in the Memorandum of Understanding entered into between the parties to the dispute. On receipt of the letter, the applicant/plaintiff sent a reply dated 9.4.2012 questioning the very authority of the fifth respondent, as an arbitrator, to adjudicate the dispute and the fifth respondent/arbitrator in turn sent an e-mail dated 11.4.2012 pointed out that he was appointed as an arbitrator pursuant to the letter dated 15.3.2011 of the plaintiffs which letter also does not specifically indicate the authority or jurisdiction of the respondents 1 to 4 to appoint the fifth respondent as an arbitrator nor applicants/ plaintiffs have even agreed to appoint any one as an Arbitrator. 3 The applicant/plaintiff questions the very appointment of the fifth respondent/ arbitrator to conduct the arbitral proceedings as there is no arbitration agreement at all. 4 Even before appointment of the fifth respondent as arbitrator, no notice was issued to the applicant/plaintiff by the respondents 1 to 4. Therefore, considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, there will be an order of interim injunction restraining the respondents 1 to 4 from proceeding further with the arbitration proceedings (Case No.ARC/SA/RSL/138/2012) which is stated to take place on 25.5.2012 or on any further dates, for a period of four weeks. Notice. Private Notice is also permitted." 48 This application is opposed by filing common counter affidavit on behalf of the respondent No.2 being the Managing Director of the respondent No.1. This affidavit is also filed on behalf of the respondents 1, 3 and 4. 49 In the counter affidavit filed by the fourth respondent, it is pleaded as under: 50 The applicant has not filed any document to establish the case, is not entitled to maintain the suit as well as the application. In any event, the ingredients necessary for grant of relief of attachment is not available and consequently application No.2319 of 2012 for attachment is also not maintainable. 51 The averments in para 3 are matters of record and admitted. The averments in para 4 are misleading and incorrect. The respondent had commenced the resort in 1998 in which the bar was a small part. The resort as a whole comprised of rooms, restaurants, bar, swimming pool etc., apart from facilities for banquetes, conferences and residential training programmes for Corporates. In March 2008, this respondent has launched "Nine Feet High" which was a successful venture fully owned and operated by the first respondent. It was on account of the success of this venture, the applicant together with one Mr.G.Vinod Reddy had approached the first respondent seeking to partner and operate a pub at the resort. The claim that this respondent was unable to maintain standards of food, beverages and quality of service is mischievous and completely baseless. The food as well as the ambience of the pub was very much appreciated by the clientele. 52 With regard to the averments in para 6, this respondent was misled by the applicants Managing Partner who was controlling and running a successful pub at Chennai. It was only later that the respondent came to know that the said Managing Partner was not directly involved in the venture and was only a minor stake holder in the venture. The fact that the respondent wanted the applicant to provide the food would clearly show that the claim that the respondent was unable to maintain the standards of the food made earlier is false. The applicants Managing Partner was fully convinced about the respondent's ability to live upto international standards well before entering into the understanding. In fact, the applicant's partners have at several occasions paid strong accolades to the respondent for the excellent food supplied by the respondent. 53 The averments in para 7 are substantially correct. However, the claim that the applicant had paid a sum of Rs.30,00,000/- (Rupees thirty lakhs only) as security deposit pursuant to the lease agreement is false and denied. The applicant had paid only Rs.20,00,000/- (Rupees twenty lakhs only), and requested the respondent to accept the same as they claimed that they had some difficulty in raising the funds at that stage. Since the remaining amount was agreed to be paid subsequently, in good faith, this respondent accepted the same. 54 With regard to the averments in para 8, it is submitted that contrary to the tall claims made by the applicant in this paragraph, the applicant was unable to raise sufficient funds for the venture, which is evident from the facts stated in the preceding paragraphs that out of the security deposit of Rs.30,00,000/- (Rupees thirty lakhs only) due and payable by the applicant, the applicant could only raise Rs.20,00,000/- (Rupees twenty lakhs only). The applicant is put to strict proof of the alleged expenditure incurred by them. In fact, the applicant had at many occasions requested this respondent to intervene on account of their non payment of dues to their vendors. Accordingly, this respondent had taken steps to sort out the issues for which the applicant's Managing Director had also sent SMSs appreciating the efforts taken by the respondent to help sort out the complications and problems of the applicant. 55 The averments in para 9 regarding the inauguaration of the pub "No Sky Above" belonging to this respondent managed by the applicant is admitted. 56 With regard to the averments in para 10, it is submitted that while the applicant claims that the business was a "huge success" on one hand, on the other hand, the applicant never furnished details of the gross sales to the respondent inspite of repeated reminders, in order to prevent the respondent from computing the amount due and payable by the applicant to the respondent calculated at 15% of the gross sales in the event the sale is above Rs.15,00,000/- (Rupees fifteen lakhs only) as provided in clause 4.2 of the MOU. 57 The averments in para 11 are false, defamatory and made for the purpose of this case. The applicant who from the beginning had no intention of paying the amounts rightfully due to this respondent and have always been struggling for finances and defaulting in payments to third parties as well as to this parties as well as to this respondent is painting a different picture before this Court. The respondent's letter, dated 23.11.2010 would show the correct position of the fact and that the applicant has admittedly not responded to the said letter sent by registered post would clearly show the true colours of the applicant. 58 The averments in para 12 are denied. It is submitted that the respondents have been giving bills periodically to the applicants. This would be evident from the fact that no requests were ever made for the bills by the applicant, since the inception of the Memorandum of Understanding until 28.01.2011 when the applicant's Manager by an email first made such a request for bills. 59 The averments in para 13 are denied. The applicant is put to strict proof of the same. It is submitted that all demands were raised only as per the terms agreed flowing from the MOU. Further, right from inception, the respondent had periodically sent statements numbering MHS statement 01 dated 31.7.2010 to MHS statement 20D dated 27.2.2012 to the applicant under proper acknowledgement. 60 The averments in para 14 are denied. It is submitted that the applicant was unable to face the financial pressures caused solely due to their several commitments and mismanagement. At a meeting with the applicant's Managing Partner in mid-January 2011, the fourth respondent was informed that he was bogged down by several health ailments which were life threatening. The applicant's Managing Partner even stated that he had to leave back to his native place for urgent medical treatment and directed the fourth respondent to contact Mr.Arun Vasu, another partner of the applicant for assistance, co-ordination and payment, in future. The said Mr.Arun Vasu used delaying tactics after which the fourth respondent tried to contact Mr.Srinivas Choudary who is the brother of the applicant's Managing Partner and also another partner of the applicant. Being in another state, he was inaccessible in person and not responsive when contacted. In these circumstances, with no solution in sight for the mounting dues the respondents were left in a quandary and was forced to find some means of forcing the applicant realise their fault and pay up the dues. Hence the respondent opened an email id " [email protected] too correspond only with the partners and those connected with the applicant in order to hasten the payments. There was nothing illegal about the same and the averments are false and contrary to the truth. At no time, did the respondents pose any threat to the staff of the applicant. In fact, the respondents had assisted the applicant's staff in every way possible. However, there was no reciprocal response. 61 That one of the Managers of the applicant had promised to submit details pertaining to sales and purchase figures as required by the Excise department which is a mandatory requirement for renewal of the FL3 licence and he kept delaying for over two months. The Excise department officials had threatened to reject and close the renewal file due to want of these details. The applicant produced the records only after repeated persuasion by the respondents since the respondents' reputation and licence was at stake. The respondents are respectable persons in society and would never resort to either physical or verbal abuses to anyone. It is false to state that the applicant's Managers were leaving because of the threats and harassment of the respondents. The four Managers who had worked during that short tenure, left due to conflict and misunderstanding with applicant's Managing Partner and differences in operation styles with the applicant. 62 The averments in para 15 are false. It is submitted that the FL3 licence fee was paid in time and applied for the year 2011-12 by the applicants. At no time was the applicant ever denied or troubled for the renewal of licence. The seeking of sales, purchase and other details by the respondent which the applicant firm was required to furnish is what the applicant is claiming to be harassment. 63 It is pertinent to mention herein that the applicant's employees at the bar did not even use a peg measure and were pouring drinks based on the presumptive minds of its bartenders. When the respondents learnt of this blatant violation, a licensed peg measure was purchased by the respondent and given to the applicant as the Tamil Nadu Liquor (Licence and permit) Rules 1981 Act very clearly stipulates that it is mandatory that every licenced Permit Room holds and uses a valid or validated peg measure at all times. The Act also clearly stipulates that the valid Peg Measure certificate is always displayed in the Bar. By failure to ensure that a valid peg measure and its certificate was present, the applicant exposed their claims of prefessionalism. The averments that the language used by the respondent in their letters and email communication was threatening and abusive are false and misleading. It was the applicant who, in all its correspondence took pains to belittle the respondents by nasty statements and remarks. 64 The averments in para 16 are false and misleading. It is submitted that even though there were several rounds of talks, the applicant never showed any intention to solve issues permanently. The energy audit was done unilaterally by the applicant and this was never shared with the respondent at any time. In fact, a study of the said energy audit report as submitted by the applicant before this Court clearly shows that the operating time per day for air conditioners was 3.5 hours only. In reality, it ran for close to 20 hours a day. More so, on big events and other night parties etc., additional loads were used that were never taken into account for by the said audit team. Again, a closer scrutiny of the said Audit Report clearly states that the figures given were not conclusive but "Possible". Such was the quality of the so called energy audit conducted by the applicant. 65 It is false to state that the respondent demanded 50% of the Resort Consumption. In line with the MOU, a sub-meter was installed by the respondent and given to the account of the applicant. The applicant in order to create a situation conducive to themselves sabotaged the sub-meter and then claimed helplessness. The respondent submits that the only load for the entire building where the Bar is located is EB service No:294:017:187 wherein a restaurant, kitchen, conference hall, ED's office room and rooms under renovation are located. Apart from this is the Bar and areas occupied by the applicant. The statement made by the applicant is that of one trying to "pass the buck" or making the respondent to pay for the applicant's use. 66 The averments in para 17 are denied. The applicant at no time showed any registers or accounts. Neither did it give any audited reports as it ought to have done under the MOU, despite written request by respondents. 67 The averments in para 18 are admitted. Even going by the statement in the plaint, the applicant does admit that dues were payable to the respondent. At no time was there any allegation made of false and wrongful accounts. The claims of the applicant are an after-thought only to avoid paying up their dues. A closer scrutiny of the applicant's statement will reveal that no attempt was made by the applicant to pay statutory dues such as VAT. 68 The averments in para 19 are misleading. It is submitted that the purpose of the internal email by the second respondent' with a copy to the applicant was merely to temporarily "suspend" the running statement and not to waive the same. This was done based on the request of the applicant to the respondent to give them a chance to make good the old payments from future business accruals, with a promise to pay the new amounts (i.e. From 9.5.2011) promptly. A reading of the sequential statements issued till the very end would show that the suspended account was always present and any credits of the applicant was debited in the suspended account as and when paid by the applicant. The applicant has also made use of the Geneset, garbage clearance and beach cleaning benefits but failed to remit its dues inspite of the applicant agreeing to do so. 69 The averments in para 20 are incorrect and false. The respondent had only demanded the legitimate dues which was scuttled by the applicant. Further, the problems pertaining to cutlery were self-created by the applicant due to poor mismanagement of the applicant's staff. With poor food sales, it was impractical and ineffective to run two kitchens and hence after according due notice, the respondent shut down the temporary kitchen and functioned from the main kitchen. The absence of the proper service boys led to poor speed of service which the applicant ought to take onus and responsibility. In the entire tenure of the applicant in operations, only once was the chef temporarily substituted since the existing Chef had been sent abroad for training in the art of manual noodle-making. Hence, the statements of failure of the respondent made by the applicant are far-fetched and far from the truth. 70 The averments in para 21 are incorrect. All claims made by the respondent are clear and sent under the proper channel of correspondence. 71 The averments in para 22 are incorrect. It is submitted that the liquor for the applicant is made through the TIN number allotted to the respondent. The monthly returns and payment of VAT pertaining to liquor sales is filed by means of Form J and this ought to have been done by the applicant as per the MOU. The applicant, on their failure to file the said returns led the Enforcement Wing of the VAT department onto us (being the Licence Holders and Tin A/c No.). On intimation that the applicant had a MOU to run the Permit Room and the fact that the applicant was responsible to file the returns and pay the VAT, the Enforcement Cell informed the respondent that the fact that liquor was being purchased, sold, taxes collected and not remitted to the Government tantamount to an illegal act that ought to have our TIN No. suspended. This was intimated to the applicant, whose accounts were then inspected and based on the sworn statement of the applicant's representative Mr.G.Vijay Saanath he acknowledges that Form J had never been filed from 31.3.2010 to date. So also, in the case of food the applicant ought to have paid VAT at 12.5% which was billed. Towards this, the applicant had remitted Rs.1.7 lakhs with the hope of suppressing the balance payment. 72 The averments in para 23 are misleading. It is submitted that despite letters being sent highlighting the lacuna in the operations of the applicant like a) VAT issue, b) Police issue, c) Service tax issue, the respondent took all possible steps to encourage the applicant to come for meetings, to which the applicant made every excuse to avoid the meetings, fearing grave consequences in line with the Indemnity Bond executed by the applicant's Managing Partner dated 29.1.2010. It is further submitted that the respondents are law abiding, honest and cultured people who cannot be seen continuing to support the illegal acts of the applicant. That too, with one of the applicant's Partners making use of his Diplomatic immunity to escape from any sort of punishment from the authorities. The applicant is trying to paint the respondent in dark shades only to hide their own illegal acts and violations. 73 The avermens in para 24 denied. It is submitted that the applicant has surreptitiously failed to produce before the Court, the letters addressed by the respondent to the applicant on various dates which speaks volumes of the wrong doings of the applicant. By not producing the respondents letters to the applicant, it is clear that the applicant had approached this Court with unclean hands and the sole intention of hoodwinking this Court. A mere reading of the respondents letters sent to the applicant, will prove that the applicant had failed to rectifying and correcting the errors and omissions committed by the applicant alone. 74 The averments in para 25 are denied, the applicant is put strict proof of the same. It is submitted that the applicants alone are liable and responsible for the illegal acts and follies committed by them. The averments in para 26 are denied. It is submitted that the statement "settlement talks" as made by the applicant in the plaint itself shows that dues did exist from the side of the applicant. However, it is false to state that the applicant repeatedly asked the respondent to come for settlement talks. All along with, it was the respondents who had been vociferous through letters asking for the applicant to come for a meeting. But the applicant cited various pre-occupations to avoid the meeting. 75 The averments in para 27 are denied. It is submitted that the non payment of dues by the applicant led to the respondent writing a letter dated 6.2.2012 requesting the applicant to pay a sum of Rs.2.42 lakhs towards FL3 Licence and other fees. This was done only because the applicant had to pay the Licence fee as per the MOU. The applicant, as a matter of habit had again taken it upon themselves to ride on the kindness of the respondent and interpret the "arrangement "to suit their wrong doings. 76 The averments in para 28 are denied. It is false to state that the respondent tampered with the electricity connection. The respondents do not benefit from in any way extending injustice to others. Even as late as 29.5.2012, the respondents Managing Partner sent a telegram to the fourth respondent on the issue of Electricity and Water, to which it was immediately checked and a reply refuting the allegations of the applicant was sent on 31.5.2012. The respondents have given utmost respect to the MOU and will never go against any agreed obligations. 77 The averments in para 29 are denied. Since there was no response to any of the respondents letters and the fact that there was no intention on the part of the applicant to resolve the issues in hand, the respondent by virtue of the Clauses of the Memorandum of Understanding and communications exchanged, referred the matter for arbitration. It is false to state that the MOU clearly expresses that the parties will approach the Courts in Chennai to resolve any disputes by litigation. Clause 8.2 very clearly stipulates that "Both parties agree to use best efforts to amicable resolve any disputes or differences between them before resorting to litigation before resorting to litigation before the Courts at Chennai." Further, in line with the ongoing issues, the applicant's Managing Partner expressed and authorized the respondent's Managing Director by means of an official correspondence dated 15.3.2011 to refer the matter for arbitration. Private notice was issued to the applicant on the arbitration vide notice dated 8.4.2012. Hence, it is false to state that the first respondent appointed the Arbitrator without notice to the applicant. 78 The averments in para 30 reference is drawn to part 3 (proceedings) on the Arbitral Award in Case No.ARC-SA-RSL-138/2012 dated 15.5.2012. A reading of page 31, 32 and 33 of the same will show that the respondents request for FAST TRACK ARBITRATION" was rejected and that the record of the proceedings by the observer dated 14.4.2012 and 9.5.2012 showed no hastle by the Sole Arbitrator to pass the award. Rather, due to the incapacity and unprofessionalism of the applicant's Managing Partner, the award was passed after giving sufficient opportunities to the applicant. To state that the basic requirement of an arbitration clause has not been fulfilled is false and untrue. 79 The averments in para 31 are denied. Mere reading of the relevant correspondences, together with Part 1 (General) C.Constitution of the Tribunal  C(i) to (xi) of the Arbitral Award in case No.ARC-SA-RSL-138/2012 dated 15.5.2012 will suitably answer to the averments made by the applicant that there is neither an arbitration clause/agreement nor has the plaintiff agreed to arbitration...." 80 The averments in para 32 is denied. The statement that the applicant wrote to the 5th respondent with a copy to the respondent on 13.4.2012 is referred to herewith. In it, the applicant's Managing Partner had categorically stated therein that: 81 The said letter of the applicant stated to have been sent on 3.4.2012 did not reach either the respondent or the 5th respondent before the first hearing on 14.4.2012 at 11.00 hrs and hence the first hearing was conducted without the presence of the applicant. Further, the applicant acknowledged receipt of the sole arbitrator's notice dated 31.3.2012 and it only for the applicant to be blamed for the delay in consulting the applicant's lawyers. Further, unknown to the contents of the applicant's letter dated 13.4.2012 the 5th respondent adjourned the proceedings to 9.5.2012. As stated in the applicant's letter dated 13.4.2012 to the 5th respondent, the applicant failed to get back to the 5th respondent by the 30th April 2012, by which it can be implied that the applicant is participating in the arbitral proceedings. 82 The averments in para 33 are denied. It is submitted that though the applicant acknowledged receipt of the letter from the Sole Arbitrator as early as 31.3.2012, the applicant chose to reply only on 13.4.2012, just one day before the first hearing of the Arbitration proceedings. In other words, the applicant confirmed that the applicant would revert by 30.4.2012 on the Arbitration issue. The applicant did not respond by the date as stated by the applicant himself and hence it was implied that the applicant had accepted and would participate in the Arbitral proceedings. 83 The averments in para 34 are denied. It is submitted that all documents were sent to the applicant by proof of delivery and hence the applicant's averment on viewing the documents was only to find ways of derailing the Arbitral proceedings. It is imperative to note here that all along the applicant had been trying to sabotage any attempt by the respondent to seek justice only because of the huge legitimate amounts owed by the applicant to the respondent. 84 The averments in para 35 are denied. The Claims Document was sent to the applicant and an affidavit of service was submitted to the Arbitral Tribunal. The request for the set of documents by the applicant's counsel was vague and baseless. Even so, the applicant's counsel argued the matter before the Arbitral Tribunal and consequently to state that the applicant would not submit to arbitration proceedings is incorrect. 85 The averments in para 36 are not to the knowledge of this respondent. The averments in para 37 are denied. The presumptions of the applicant and the applicants failure to represent before the Arbitral Tribunal has only led the applicant to feel that the conduct between the first respondent and the fifth respondent is extremely suspicious. It is pertinent to state that the applicant's Managing Partner had always behaved in doubt of even his own partners. The averments in para 38 are denied. At the time of Arbitration proceedings, there was no multiplicity of proceedings. Further, with the Arbitral Award being passed on 15.5.2012 the Arbitration Proceedings had come to an end. 86 The averments in para 39 are denied. The averments made by the applicant are false and without any basis. The applicant escaped severe repercussions on several occasions only due to the timely response and goodwill that the respondent holds. The fourth respondent reserves his right to proceed against the first respondent based on the Indemnity Bond furnished by the first applicant in favour of the fourth respondent. The grounds will solely be based on that what is stated in the Indemnity Bond itself. 87 With regard to the averments in para 40, the respondents letters sent to the applicant for which there is valid acknowledgment has been wilfully suppressed by the applicant and a mere reading of the letters will expose the applicant that has led to the respondent being put under severe mental trauma and agony. In other words, it is evident that the applicant has approached this Court with unclean hands. Therefore, the defendant has prayed for dismissal of both the applications. 88 The defendants/respondents opposed the application on the plea that the respondent No.5, sole Arbitrator has concluded the arbitration proceedings and passed an award on 15.5.2012 and therefore, this application has been rendered infructuous, as remedy with the plaintiff/applicant now is to challenge the award under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act . 89 It was also contended by the learned counsel for the respondents that the present suit as well as application is not maintainable, as the civil Court cannot interfere with arbitration proceedings, as the remedy with the plaintiff/applicant if any, is to challenge the award under Sec.34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, and not by filing civil suit. 90 It was also vehemently contended that the plaintiff/ applicant having submitted to jurisdiction of the Arbitrator, it is now estopped from challenging the jurisdiction of the respondent No.5. 91 The learned counsel for the plaintiff/applicant vehemently contended that the suit filed by the plaintiff/applicant is maintainable, as the proceedings hold by respondent No.5 are totally void, as the respondent No.5 did not have any jurisdiction to enter reference for want of arbitration agreement. Therefore, Sec.5 of the Act would not be attracted in this case. 92 The learned counsel for the plaintiff/applicant referred to proceedings of the respondent No.5 wherein it was recorded, that the respondent is given one more opportunity for their objection if any, to be filed before the Arbitrators on 25.5.2012 at 11.00 sharp at the same venue at ICSA No.107, Pantheon Road, Chennai 8. This order was passed by the alleged Arbitrator on 10.5.2012. The learned counsel for the plaintiff/applicant also referred to the order passed by this Court staying further proceedings before the learned Arbitrator. 93 The contention is that the award passed on 15.5.2012 therefore is nothing but a waste paper having been passed in violation of order of injunction and that too, before the date fixed for filing of objections. 94 It was also contended by the learned counsel for the plaintiff/applicant that this Court has the jurisdiction to entertain and try suit as framed, as section 5 cannot be a bar to maintainability of the suit or this application, as the arbitration proceedings being void, the award, dated 15.5.2012 is totally null and void. In support of this contention, the learned counsel for the plaintiff/applicant placed reliance on the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in (2005)8 SCC 618 (S.B.P. & co. v. Patel Engineering), (2003)12 SCC 140 (C.D.C. Financial & B.P.L. Communications) , A.I.R. 2004 P & H 276 Pappu Rice Mills v. Punjab State Coop. Supply & Marketing Federation. 95 But these judgments have no relevance to the facts of the present case, as the dispute in this case is with regard to validity of the arbitral award having been passed without jurisdiction, for want of arbitration agreement/clause. 96 The question with regard to the jurisdiction of the civil Court was considered by the Constitutional Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dhulabhai Etc. vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and another (A.I.R. 1969 SC 78) wherein after considering the relevant judgments on the point, the Constitutional bench was pleased to lay down as under: 97 The Full Bench of the Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the State of Haryana vs. Vinod Kumar and others (A.I.R. 1986 (Punjab) 407) was pleased to lay down as under: 6. Even if for the sake of arguments it may be accepted that the impugned order is only voidable and will be binding on the respondents unless it is got declared void or set aside can it be said that the only remedy open to them is to approach the authorities under the Punjab Act and the remedy of a regular suit would be barred by the provisions of S. 25 of the Punjab Act. The law has been well-established in this regard and was enunciated by the Privy council in Secretary of State v, Mask & Co. , AIR 1940 PC 105 thus: 7. The most authoritative pronouncement by the Supreme Court in this regard was made in Kamala Mills Ltd. v. State of Bombay , AIR 1965 SC 1942 by a 7-Judge Bench as under:-- The matter was again considered at a great length by 5 Judge Bench of the Supreme Court in Ram Swarup v.Shikar Chand, AIR 1966 SC 893. In this case the provisions of Ss. 3(4) and 16 of the U.P. (Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act, 1947 were under consideration. Although the provisions of the said section expressly barred the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts still it was held that if the order was passed in violation of the statutory provisions or the principles of natural justice the order would be open to challenge in Civil Court. Paragraphs 12 and 13 which contain the ratio and the precise rules laid down, read as under:-- It was further observed in paragraph 18 that the earlier decision of the Supreme Court in Kamala Mills case (AIR 1965 SC 1942) (supra) fully supports the view taken by them. In the face of this authoritative pronouncement there is no room for any doubt that if an order is passed by a tribunal of limited jurisdiction without issuing a notice to the concerned party, the order would be a nullity and open to challenge in the Civil Court even if the statute expressly bars the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to entertain a suit to challenge the validity or legality of the order passed by such a tribunal. This question was once against considered by a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Dhulabhai v. State of Madhya Pradesh , AIR 1969 SC 78 and the seven principles contained in the judgment of the learned Chief Justice were enunciated. The scope of the observations made and the rule laid down in Kamala Mill 's case (supra) came under specific consideration of the Bench and it was observed that the Special Bench (in Kamala Mills case) refrained from either accepting the dictum of Mask Co 's case 67 Ind App 222; (AIR 1940 PC 105) or rejecting it, to the effect that even if jurisdiction is excluded by a provision making the decision of the authorities final the Civil Court have jurisdiction to examine into case where the provisions of the particular Act are not complied with. The jurisdiction of the Civil Court to try the suits against the order passed by the Tribunal of Special Jurisdiction in violation of the provision of the statue or principles of natural justice was thus upheld even though the jurisdiction of Civil Court to question the legality or validity of the orders of the Tribunal was expressly barred by the statute. 8. Though according to the rule laid down in Amar Singh 's case (AIR 1974 SC 994) (supra) respondent had no right to file either an appeal or a petition for review or revision against the impugned order of the Collector to which they were not parties, but even if it may be accepted for the sake of argument that they could file an appeal with the permission of the Appellate Authority or move for review even then it cannot be said that the concurrent or alternative remedy of fining a suit for getting the declaration that the impugned order was non est so far as they were concerned would be barred by the provisions of the said S. 25 of the Punjab Act. It is well-established that in the case of alternative or concurrent remedies it is open to the party to choose anyone of them. The existence of the remedy under the Act, if any, therefore, would not bar the remedy of the suit if it otherwise was available to the respondent. Not a single case could be cited by the learned counsel for the State at the bar wherein it may have been held that the remedy of suit by a person who is not a party to the order nor has been served with any notice, for declaration that such an order was non est so far as he was concerned was held to be barred even though the validity and legality of the orders passed were expressly stated to be not open to challenge under the statute. All the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for the State were such in which the suit was filed by the person who was a party before the Tribunal of exclusive jurisdiction. The observations made in all those decisions therefore, have to be therefore, have to be understood in the context of the situation available there and in none of these decisions as observed in Dhaunkal Sheo Ram's case (AIR 1940 Punj & Har 431) (FB) (supra) the rule laid down in Mask Co 's case (AIR 1940 PC 105) (supra) was adversely commented upon. We would., therefore, hold that the present suit was not barred by the provisions of S. 25 of the Punjab Act and answer the question referred to Full Bench in the affirmative." 98 The conduct of respondent No.5 in entering reference in absence of arbitration agreement being without jurisdiction and contrary to provisions of Arbitration and Conciliation Act itself leads to conclusion that this Court has the jurisdiction to entertain and try the suit, as the proceedings by the respondent No.1 being void are not covered under the arbitration and Conciliation Act . 99 On being questioned as to whether there is arbitration agreement which could give jurisdiction to the respondent No.5 to enter reference to decide the dispute between the parties, the learned counsel for the respondents referred to Clause 8 of the lease agreement entered into between Mr.Joseph Fernandaz and M/s.Madras Hospitality Services which reads as under: 100 The dispute resolution as stipulated in the Memorandum of Understanding entered into between the plaintiff and the first defendant, cannot be said to be arbitrary agreement by any stretch of imagination. Rather, Clause 8.2 clearly stipulates that in absence of amicable settlement between the parties, the litigation will be before the Court at Chennai and not by way of arbitration. 101 It is well settled law that arbitration agreement is the very foundation on which the jurisdiction of the arbitration to Act rests, and where that is not in existence at the time when arbitration enters reference, the proceedings are totally without jurisdiction and this defect cannot be cured by the appearance of the parties in these proceedings, even if it was without protest, because consent cannot confer jurisdiction. Reference in support can be made to judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Waverly Jute Mills Co.Ltd. And another vs. Raymon and Co. (India) Pvt. Ltd. (A.I.R. 1963 SC 90)

		102 It is also well settled law that acquiesce by parties or participation by parties in a proceeding before the Arbitrator cannot confirm the jurisdiction, nor parties can be estopped from challenging the jurisdiction. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in U.P.Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Ltd. vs. Indure Pvt. Ltd. and others (1996)2 SCC 667) was pleased to lay down as under: 103 Therefore, it can be safely be held that the plaintiff has made out a prima facie case. The respondent No.5 did not have jurisdiction to enter reference or pass an award, therefore, proceedings and passing of award are patently void having no force of law. The balance of convenience is also in favour of the applicant. The applicant is likely to suffer irreparable loss if the injunction as prayed for is not granted. 104 Now, we are left with question as to what relief can be granted to the applicant in view of the passing of the award, dated 15.5.2012. 105 It is proved on record that the respondent No.5 had fixed the next date of arbitration proceedings on 25.5.2012, whereas the stand of the respondent is that the award was passed on 15.5.2012 which prima facie seems to ante dated to defeat the rights of the plaintiff/applicant. This Court cannot be mute spectator to illegalities of the respondent No.5 who did not act bonafidely and made deliberate attempt and intentional attempt to overreach this Court in view of the injunction granted on 17.5.2012. No explanation is forthcoming from the respondent as to how the award could be passed on 15.5.2012 when the last date for filing objection was fixed as 25.5.2012. The award therefore, is nothing but an deliberate and intentional attempt to overreach this Court therefore, fraud on the Court. The respondents therefore, cannot take any advantage of the award, dated 15.5.2012. 106 Otherwise also, in view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Waverly Jute Mills Co.Ltd. and another vs. Raymon and Co. (India) Pvt. Ltd. (A.I.R. 1963 SC 90), the award is nothing but nullity having no force of law, for want of arbitration agreement. 107 It is only in the case of valid arbitration agreement that this Court does not interfere with arbitration proceedings or award passed in exercise of civil jurisdiction. Once the proceedings are held to be void and a nullity, jurisdiction of this Court is not ousted and this Court can set aside null and void award, passed without jurisdiction in exercise of civil jurisdiction. 108 Keeping in view of the fact that the petitioner has made out prima facie case and balance of convenience is also in favour of the applicant and also in view of the fact that there is order of injunction by this Court restraining the respondent No.5 from proceeding with the arbitration proceedings, an attempt was made to overreach this Court, therefore, relief is modified and application is allowed by setting aside the award, dated 15.5.2012 by declaring it to be null and void and further restraining the respondent No.5 to proceed with the arbitration proceedings during the pendency of the suit. 109 The award is otherwise also hit by the principle of lis pendence, as the suit was filed prior to the passing of the award. Therefore, rights of the applicant are also protected under the principle of lis pendence. A party cannot be left remedyless. The respondent No.5 inspite of serious allegations has not chosen to file any counter. The allegations against the respondent No.5 therefore go unrebutted. 110 It has been brought to the notice of this Court that the respondent No.5 is running illegal institution to conduct arbitration proceedings unilaterally without the consent of both parties. This case proves this fact. Furthermore, keeping in view of the fact that the respondents have tried to overreach this Court by passing award, dated 15.5.2012 even though, the application for injunction was pending in this Court. O.A.No.436 of 2012 is allowed with exemplary costs. The costs are assessed at Rs.2,00,000/- (Rupees two lakhs only) to be paid by the respondent No.5, to the Tamil Nadu Legal Services Authority, High Court, Madras. The plaintiff/applicant in a suit for damages, has filed this application under Order 14 Rule 8 of the O.S. Rules read with Order 38 Rule 5 of C.P.C . to direct the respondents 1 and 4, to jointly furnish security for a sum of Rs.2,00,000/- (Rupees two lakhs only) failing which to order attachment of schedule mentioned property. 112 In support of this application, besides reproducing factual averments made in the plaint, the grounds with regard to furnishing security read as under: 113 The averments even if taken on face value do not satisfy the requirement of Order 38 Rule 5 of C.P.C . It is yet to be determined whether the plaintiff/applicant will be entitled to damages as claimed. Otherwise also, there is no averments regarding any overtact on the part of the respondents in disposing of the property to defeat the decree to be passed in favour of the applicant/plaintiff. In absence of any material showing the steps being taken to dispose of the property with intention to defeat the decree to be passed, no order under Order 38 Rule 5 of C.P.C . can be passed as prayed. 114 Consequently, A.No.2319 of 2012 being totally misconceived, and void of any merit is ordered to be dismissed, but, with no order as to costs. 12.02.2013
Index: Yes/No
Internet:Yes/No
vaan

VINOD K.SHARMA, J. vaan
				
	

Pre-Delivery common order in 
O.A.No.436 of 2012 &
A.No.2319 of 2012 in C.S.No.335 of 2012 Dated: 12.02.2013