Heard Shri Imran Ibrahim, learned counsel for the applicant, learned Additional Government Advocate for the State of U.P. as well as Shri K.K. Rao, learned counsel for the informant, and perused the record. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant seeking bail in Case Crime No. 76/2023, under Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 506 IPC, Police Station- Pahasu, District - Bulandshahar. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present crime. He further submits that the first informant is well familiar with the family of the applicant as the sister of the applicant, Monika, is a family friend of the first informant. The first informant and his family members took loan from the sister of the applicant, Monika, amounting to Rs. 51 lacs and paid only Rs. 44 lacs to her, which was credited in the account of mother of Gurucharan Kaur, and when Monika demanded his rest money, then the first informant only with intention to embezzled the said money prepared forged document at Khurja and Delhi and implicate the entire family members of the applicant. He further submits that the applicant or his family members have not executed any notary affidavit or forged documents. He further submits that the signatures of Gurucharan Kaur are entirely different in the notary affidavit and the documents as well as on the forged application, which indicates that the first informant prepared forged case against the applicant. He further submits that the forged notary affidavit was prepared at Delhi with regard to the property situated at Khurja, Bulandshahar, which has no value in the eye of law. He further submits that the sister of the applicant, Monika, has no business relationship with the first informant. He further submits that the applicant does not have previous criminal history.It is also submitted that there is no apprehension that after being released on bail, the applicant may flee from the course of law or may, otherwise, misuse the liberty of bail and the applicant is in jail since 11.04.2023 and the possibility of conclusion of trial in near future is very bleak. Learned A.G.A. and counsel for the informant have, however, opposed the prayer for grant of bail. Learned counsel for the informant submits that when the informant requested the accused persons to provide the original copy of the sale deed, they refused to provide the same. He further submits that a sum of Rs. 77 lacs has been paid by the informant to the applicant, along with his mother, by way of cash and bank on the promise to execute the sale deed. He further submits that when the informant came to know that the documents prepared by the applicant and his sister for seeking permission from the Sub Divisional Magistrate are forged, the informant has lodged the instant FIR. He further submits that the entire family of the applicant is involved in cheating the poor persons and induced them to pay money by making forged documents. He further submits that the sister of the applicant was known to the informant as she was engaged in business with the family of the informant. The forged documents were sent by the sister of the applicant in watsapp chat. He further submits that the biometric was taken outiside the Office for the reason that the mother of the applicant was ill. He further submits that the act of fraud and cheating has been committed b the applicant and his sister by making forged documents and induced the informant for paying the money as consideration amount for execution of the sale deed and therefore, it cannot be said that the allegations are only against the sister of the applicant. He further submits that the offence has been made out against the applicant and therefore, the instant bail application is liable to be rejected. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, perusing the record, as also considering the nature of allegations, arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and also the fact that the offence is triable by a 1st Class Magistrate, without expressing any opinion on the merit of the case, I find it to be a fit case for granting bail. Let applicant, namely, Vishal Kumar, be released on bail in the aforesaid Case Crime Number on furnishing personal bond and two reliable sureties each of the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions:- Any violation of above conditions will be treated misuse of bail and learned Court below will be at liberty to pass appropriate order in the matter regarding cancellation of bail. The bail application stands disposed of. Order Date :- 30.01.2024
 
Amit Mishra
 
(Piyush Agrawal,J.)