This is the fourth bail application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. The
 applicant is in custody since 26.11.2020 in connection with Crime
 No.242/2020 registered at Police Station Malhargarh, District Mandsaur for
 the offence punishable under Sections 388 , 365 and 394 of IPC. First
 application was dismissed as withdrawn vide order dated 02.03.2021 in
 M.Cr.C.No.10441/2021. Second application was dismissed as withdrawn
 vide order dated 05.04.2021 with liberty to revive after eight weeks in
 M.Cr.C.No.14872/2021 and third application was dismissed as withdrawn
 vide order dated 08.06.2021 with liberty to revive after eight weeks in
 M.Cr.C.No.23665/2021. As per prosecution story, the applicant a member of an organized
 gang is involved in cheating and blackmailing people for extraction of huge
 money. In the instance case, the applicant is alleged to have initially made
 phone calls to the complainant and tried to lay honey trap. Though initially
 the complainant resisted and did not encourage the applicant to make calls,
 however, due to her persistent calls, the complainant had gone to the spot
 where both of them decided to leave their home. No sooner the complainant
 reached there four persons riding on two motorcycles came on the spot and
 started assaulting by fists and kicks and also demanded huge amount, Signature Not VerifiedDigitally signed by SAN REENA JOSEPH
 Date: 2021.09.08
 17:37:12 IST
 2 MCRC-40547-2021

 otherwise they threatened to make the complainant accused of such offence
 punishable with life imprisonment. The complainant out of fear had given
 an amount of Rs.71,000/-. Thereafter complaint has been filed and
 accordingly case has been registered. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that applicant is innocent
 and she has been falsely implicated in the offence. She is not required for
 custodial interrogation as challan has been filed. It is further submitted that
 applicant has already suffered jail incarceration since 26.11.2020. Looking
 to the COVID-19 situation, trial is not likely to conclude early in the near
 future. Hence, the applicant may be enlarged on bail on the ground of long
 incarceration. Per contra, learned Panel Lawyer supports the order impugned and
 opposes the bail application with submission that the applicant has played
 fraud with the complainant and demanded huge amount alongwith the other
 co-accused persons. There is one criminal antecedent of the year 2020 of
 the same nature and this Court had given liberty to the applicant to revive
 after eight weeks twice. Hence, the applicant is not entitled for bail. At this stage, learned counsel for the applicant, on instructions
 graciously and voluntarily submits that looking to the grave critical social
 economic condition of poor persons living in old age homes, Vidhwa
 Ashrams or orphans living in orphanage, the applicant is prepared to deposit
 a sum of Rs.50,000/- (Rs. Fifty Thousand only) in the office of Jila Bal
 Sanrakshan Samiti, Mandsaur (Bank of India Account
 No.912910210000074 IFSC Code BKID0009129 for the purpose of
 providing basic amenities, clothing, food/food items and other essential
 amenities required for old age people living in old age homes, vidhwas
 living in vidhwa aashrams, orphans living in orphanage and also to
 sufferers of Covid-19 Pandemic in the city of Mandsaur as well as for Signature Not VerifiedDigitally signed by SAN REENA JOSEPH
 Date: 2021.09.08
 17:37:12 IST
 3 MCRC-40547-2021

 providing facility of Bio gas plant (Gobar Gas) to poor
 villagers/agriculturists for enabling them to avail the LPG gas for domestic
 purpose. However, the aforesaid deposit of amount may not influence the
 pending trial but is only, for enlargement of applicant on bail. Upon hearing counsel for the parties, but without touching merits of
 the contentions so advanced, regard being had to the fact that the applicant
 is in jail since 26.11.2020, not required for custodial interrogation, in the
 light of the liberty granted twice and due to Covid-19 pandemic, the
 possibility of delay in conclusion of trial cannot be ruled out. Hence,
 applicant is held entitled for enlargement on bail. Consequently, the application of the applicant filed under Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 is hereby allowed. It is directed that
 the applicant be released on bail on furnishing personal bond in the sum of
 Rs.2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs only) with one solvent surety in the like
 amount to the satisfaction of the learned Trial Court and on the condition
 that she shall remain present before the Court concerned during trial and
 also comply with the conditions enumerated under Section 437 (3) of
 Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 with following further conditions: (Rs. Fifty Thousand only) in favour of Jila Bal Sanrakshan Samiti,
 Mandsaur (Bank of India Account No.912910210000074 IFSC Code
 BKID0009129 to be utilized for providing clothing, food and other
 essential amenities required for old age people living in old age homes,
 vidhwas living in vidhwa aashrams, orphans living in orphanage in the
 District, physically challenged persons and to sufferers of Covid-19
 Pandemic as well as for providing facility of Bio gas plant (Gobar Gas) to
 poor villagers/agriculturists for enabling them to avail the LPG gas for
 domestic purpose and the same shall have no bearing on merits of the trial
 but for enlargement of the applicant on bail and obtain a receipt. (ii)(a) the applicant will submit the aforesaid original demand drafts
 alongwith copy of the order passed today through her counsel before
 the Principal Registrar of this Bench, for keeping the same in his safe
 custody. (ii)(b) as and when directed the Principal Registrar shall seek
 instructions/directions through PUD from this Court for handing over
 the demand drafts to the concerned authority in that behalf. (ii)(c) The Registry is directed to accept the original demand drafts
 without mentioning the account number therein. However, ensure that
 the same is in relation to the present case. (iii) the aforesaid authority is at its discretion to utilize the amount so
 deposited as and where it is required upon verification. The Collector,
 Mandsaur is also directed to maintain a separate account (for production of
 the record as and when directed for). (iv) the applicant will submit an attested photocopy of the receipt before the
 Principal Registrar of this Bench, for placing the same on record of this
 case. The Principal Registrar shall produce the same as and when required
 by this Court in the form of PUD. (v) the applicant shall mark her attendance before the concerned Police
 Station on 2nd & 4th Saturday of every month between 10.00 AM to
 12.00 Noon. (vi) the applicant shall abide by the terms and conditions of various
 circulars and orders issued by the Government of India and the State
 Government as well as the local administration from time-to-time in the
 matter of maintaining social distancing, physical distancing, hygiene, etc.,
 to avoid proliferation of Novel Corona virus (COVID-19); (vii) the concerned jail authorities are directed that before releasing the
 applicant, the medical examination of the applicant be conducted through
 the jail doctor and if it is prima facie found that she is having any symptoms Signature Not VerifiedDigitally signed by SAN REENA JOSEPH
 Date: 2021.09.08
 17:37:12 IST
 5 MCRC-40547-2021

 of COVID-19, then the consequential follow up action or any further test
 required be undertaken immediately. If not, the applicant will be released on
 bail in terms of the conditions imposed in this order; (viii) violation of conditions, State is free to apply for cancellation of bail. (ix) in future, if the applicant is found to be involved in such nature of cases
 or any other similar criminal cases or misuse the bail granted by this Court,
 this bail order shall stand cancelled automatically. Learned Panel Lawyer is directed to send an e-copy of this order to
 all the concerned including the concerned Station House Officer of the
 Police Station for information and necessary action. E-certified copy as per rules.