Cyberbullying of children, identity theft, gaslighting, doxxing, impersonation and catfishing are some of the online offences likely to be penalized in the upcoming Digital India Bill, according to a report by the Indian Express . Bringing in a law that addresses modern harms in the internet space is currently on the agenda of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY).

While cyberbullying and identity theft are commonly discussed cybercrimes , catfishing is a term mainly related to the online dating world, wherein a user creates a false identity or a deceptive persona on a platform to convince another user into forming a relationship with them. Impersonation means stealing someone’s profile picture and creating a fake account under their name, similar to identity theft. Gaslighting in an online platform essentially means misleading someone and making them question their own understanding or instincts. Doxxing refers to the act of revealing someone’s identifiable information on the internet with malicious intentions.

The said law is meant to replace the Information Technology Act 2000, established during the pre-social media era and caters mainly to real-world offences. According to the Indian Express report, the government has reached out to more than 200 young people and parents to deliberate upon the nature of these harms.

The ministry is also planning to make clear distinctions between various online intermediaries such as social media, e-commerce sites, fact-checking and AI-based platforms in the Digital India Bill. It is also likely to introduce a separate regulator for the digital space, which will penalise offences and include provisions for algorithmic accountability of social media platforms, MediaNama reported.

Why does this matter?

India yet does not have a law explicitly addressing online harms of specific nature such as gaslighting, doxxing and catfishing on online platforms. In India, consequences of catfishing and gaslighting came to light in the form of financial frauds as well as mental health woes. These highlighted the implications of the nuanced nature of such online activities in people’s real life. The government’s plan to modernise the existing framework and define specific online harms is relevant to note. However, in the internet space, definitions of terms are not absolute and continue to evolve alongside the development of the platform features. It will be interesting to watch how the government intends to address these dynamics in the much-awaited bill.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event