The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) stated that it had blocked 83,668 WhatsApp accounts and 3,962 Skype IDs in a bid to clamp down on incidents of digital arrests. The Indian government has blocked 7.81 lakh SIM cards and over 2 lakh International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) numbers reported by police authorities until February 28, 2025.

The Minister of State (MoS) for Home Affairs, Bandi Sanjay Kumar provided this information in the Lok Sabha in response to a series of questions related to digital arrests asked by Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) lawmaker Mahesh Kashyap , who represents Chhattisgarh’s Bastar.

Kashyap quizzed Kumar about the following points:

With respect to the first two queries, Kumar stated that the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) compiles and publishes data in its publication “Crime in India”, the latest edition of which was published three years ago in 2022.

He added that the NCRB does not separately record or maintain particular data about digital arrests.

He also reminded Kashyap that the Centre is not responsible for dealing with cyber crimes; instead, it is the purview of the States and Union Territories (UTs).

“The States/UTs are primarily responsible for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of crimes including cyber crime and digital arrest scams through their Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs).

“The Central Government supplements the initiatives of the States/UTs through advisories and financial assistance under various schemes for capacity building of their LEAs,” he said in the lower house of the Parliament.

Coming onto the steps, the Centre has taken to combat cyber crimes, including digital arrests, Kumar said that the MHA has instituted the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) within its setup to deal with virtually every type of cyber crime in the country.

Notably, the I4C has collaborated with the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to launch a caller-tune campaign to raise awareness about cybercrime.

As per Kumar, the caller tune is being broadcast in regional languages and is delivered seven to eight times in a day by telecom service providers (TSPs).

Kumar highlighted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about digital arrests in the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ episode broadcast on October 27, 2024.

He also revealed that the Central Government has launched an awareness programme focused on digital arrest scams, which includes newspaper advertisements, announcements in the Delhi Metro, social media influencers creating special posts, a campaign delivered through Prasar Bharti and the electronic media, etc.

Furthermore, to curb the incidence of digital arrests, the Centre has resorted to disseminating SMS alerts, using I4C’s social media presence, organising cyber safety and security awareness weeks in association with States/UTs, publishing handbooks for adolescents and students, and placing digital displays on railway stations and airports across India.

Notably, this is not the first time that the Centre has cracked down on digital arrest scam perpetrators: in December last year, the Union Government blocked over 1,700 Skype IDs and 59,000 WhatsApp accounts utilised for digital arrests. As digital arrest fraudsters impersonate government officials, it reduces people’s trust in officers and digital platforms, which resulted in Skype introducing alerts to tackle such scams in November last year.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event