During its fourth quarterly earnings call for financial year 2024-2025, the parent company of FirstCry, Brainbees Solutions, reported a loss of Rs 111.5 crore as compared to a Rs 43.3 crore loss in Q4FY24. However, the company’s revenue from operations increased 15.8% year-over-year (YoY) to Rs 1,930 crore in Q4FY25 from Rs 1,667 crore in the same quarter in the previous year.

The gross merchandise value (GMV) also rose 14% YoY to Rs 2,614.6 crore in Q4FY25. Moving to operational metrics, FirstCry witnessed 10.6 million annual unique transacting customers (AUTC) in Q4FY25, denoting a 17% YoY rise from Q4FY24.

This business recorded a 17% YoY rise in customers, which stood at 10.1 million alongside a GMV growth of 14% YoY to Rs 2,193.8 crore in Q4FY25. Company officials disclosed that while online channels contributed 78% of this GMV growth, offline stores derived the remaining 22%.

Speaking of the slight moderation of GMV growth, Brainbees’ CFO Gautam Sharma attributed it to three reasons. These include the overall slowdown in the offline business, the shortened winter period, and the closure of 38 Company-Owned and Company-Operated (COCO) stores in the fiscal year.

Coming to its international business, FirstCry currently operates via online platforms in Saudi Arabia and the UAE. This segment recorded 0.5 million orders and a GMV growth of 16% YoY to Rs 420.8 crore in Q4FY25. This was accompanied by a 14% YoY growth in customers to 0.5 million in the quarter.

Comparatively, the international segment noted four times higher Average Order Value (AOV) than the India channel, executives claimed during the investors’ presentation. This is due to a higher birth rate and eight times more spending per child on childcare in the Middle East compared to India. Despite being four years old, the international business has achieved a gross margin (GM) of 23.3% in FY25, akin to the India Multi-Channel business’ recording a GM of 24% in its seventh year, or FY18.

This segment comprises D2C brands across categories like home appliances, personal care, lifestyle, and home utilities. It reported a 33% YoY revenue growth to Rs 398.4 crore in the quarter, up from Rs 298.6 crore in Q4FY24.

In a different vein, the management ascribed the overall increase in advertising spend to an increase in marketing efforts for Globalbees, which takes the lion’s share of the total spend.

In this segment, FirstCry’s preschool partnerships increased to 363 in FY25 from 208 in FY24. Additionally, the revenue grew to Rs 42.5 crore in Q4FY25 from Rs 33.4 crore in Q4FY24.

Moving forward, an analyst questioned the disparity between the AUTC and order growth in the International and India Multi-Channel segments. In response, executives argued that the India business has seen a slowdown in the offline store network, driven by lower footfall and consequently fewer orders in the months of January and February. However, the growth in the online channel remains somewhat unchanged.

Concerning the international business, the gap stemmed from competition from new entrants in the market in the previous quarter. While the segment is registering new customers, their transaction frequency might be impacted by engagements with other sites offering higher discounts or other incentives. Elaborating on competitive intensity, the management expects to see it moderated over a period of time. The Middle East’s geography would experience aggressive competition from marketplaces that would eventually allay, akin to what India experienced, FirstCry officials explained.

The discussion also delved into the overall advantage of FirstCry as a vertical over other horizontal players in the industry. Drawing a likeness between Nykaa and FirstCry as verticals, stakeholders questioned why customers would prefer the retail company over other horizontals.

“For Nykaa, the primary difference is that it holds inventory and vouches for products in contrast with horizontal platforms that risk the presence of fakes and counterfeits. And the second reason is that it has a huge number of SKUs (stock keeping units) that are not available on other horizontals, so people transact with Nykaa. So, if I have to find reasons, why would people go to FirstCry versus other horizontals?”, the analyst queried.

For context , while vertical companies focus on a niche market like Nykaa with beauty or FirstCry with baby products, horizontal companies include marketplaces like Amazon or Flipkart that house a variety of products.

In response, the management stated that end-consumers, including young parents, choose FirstCry for two fundamental reasons. First, the company offers a curated experience through multi-brand outlets (MBOs) and a personalised app interface tailored to individual customer demographics, behaviour, and regional nuances. Second, FirstCry’s ‘home brands’ like Babyhug and Pine Kids are only available on its e-commerce platform, which aids customer preference and ‘stickiness’ over other online platforms. Notably, the company contends that home brands contributed 55% of the India Multi-Channel business’ GMV in FY25.

Elaborating on ‘home brands’, stakeholders probed what factors would drive margin expansion in the India Multi-Channel business. They claimed that while ‘home brands’ currently contribute 55% to the GMV, it can only be scaled to a maximum of 65% to aid expansion. To explain, given its position as a retailer, FirstCry should provide customers a wide variety of choices and accordingly refrain from expanding private labels at the cost of customer experience, the analyst explained.

Company executives countered this narrative and justified their focus on ‘home brands’ by noting that the market potential for this segment remains untapped. “There are no big brands in apparel and fashion for kids, which stands at a market value higher than Rs 400 crore. Most of the brands have withered away or become very small”, they explained. Further, FirstCry remained bullish on its ability to grow home brands at scale through leveraging its supply chain and product development at different price points. Conversely, it is noted that small or sub-optimal-sized brands face difficulties in scaling.

Alongside this, the company reaffirmed its focus on collaborations with ‘mompreneurs’ and other brand partnerships. In FY25, the company housed 8,019 brands as compared to 7,580 in FY24. “Overall, the ecosystem will continue to deliver a superior ‘home brand’ share while embracing both brand partners and expectations of end consumers and mothers”, FirstCry MD & CEO Supam Maheshwari concluded.

In a different vein, the management discouraged the usage of the term “private labels” for its home brands, arguing that the former only comprises margins.

Speaking on its ambition for faster deliveries, Sharma explained that FirstCry, among other e-commerce players, has experienced dissatisfaction with the delivery ecosystem. He attributed this to challenges encountered by delivery partners, particularly manpower constraints or a shortage of last-mile delivery workers, especially in the past two or three months. However, FirstCry has experimented with tech infrastructure and its local logistical partners to get on par with the overall industry standard for faster delivery. Accordingly, the company is attempting to reduce delivery durations to three to four hours from six hours for same-day delivery in certain cities.

While the company expands COCO stores, stakeholders questioned the moderation of Franchise Owned, Franchise Operated (FOFO) stores. For context, FirstCry recorded a net addition of one FOFO store in FY25, taking the total to 629. Explaining this rationale, the management contended that the overall industry slowdown has resulted in caution on both the franchise and company sides. Consequently, FirstCry has ramped up its criteria for partner selection to control larger store churn (as most franchising partners also collaborate with other retail brands) and deliver a better customer experience.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event