Heard the learned counsel for the parties. The parties

are referred to by their rank before the trial court for the

sake of convenience. 2. This is an appeal by the plaintiff. It was the case of

the plaintiff that she was married to the first defendant at

Somwarpet, Kodagu District on 16.5.1966 as per customary

Hindu rites. The first defendant was a medical practitioner

and was employed on various assignments, which required

him to travel abroad. In the year 1969, he visited England

on an assignment, where he had worked up to the year

1971. Thereafter, he had returned to India. He had again

left for the United States Of America (Hereinafter referred to

as the 'USA', for brevity) in the year 1972 on a temporary

assignment. The plaintiff had joined him in the USA and 4 three children were born to the plaintiff and the first

defendant, namely, Shashikumar, who was 13, Skanda, who

was 7 and Shanmuga, who was 5, as on the date of the suit.

The plaintiff was the only child to her parents. Her father

had died early and her mother had inherited extensive

Coffee estates and other properties at Somwarpet and other

places. It was the plaintiff's case that the first defendant was

keen that the properties be sold and the plaintiff should

encash the same, so that it could be better enjoyed by them.

But the plaintiff and her mother were opposed to the idea

and this lead to discord between the plaintiff and her

husband. It was the allegation of the plaintiff that from the

year 1980, she and her children were neglected by the first

defendant, who was displaying bad temper at all times and

had remained withdrawn from the plaintiff. The relationship 5 further degenerated and the plaintiff was physically abused

and was even locked out of the house. It is the plaintiff's

case that in this background, she was advised by a well-

wisher in USA, to go to India with the children. When the

plaintiff demanded money for her support and maintenance,

the first defendant refused to provide the same. The first

defendant had compelled the plaintiff to go to India along

with one A.C.Basavaraj, though the plaintiff was reluctant to

do so. However, the plaintiff did come to India on

5.6.1981. On 6.7.1981, the first defendant had sent a

telegram informing her that he would be coming to

Bangalore along with the children on 8.7.1981. The two

children, Skanda and Shanmuga were accordingly brought

to Bangalore by the first defendant. After leaving the two

children at Bangalore, the first defendant left for the USA on

19.7.1981. Thereafter, the plaintiff's best efforts to get 6 back to the USA, along with the children, were in vain as

the first defendant had refused to provide the air fare. It transpires that on 5.2.1982, the third son Shanmuga

was run over by a bus in Somwarpet and suffered multiple

fractures and he was hospitalised. Hence, the plaintiff was

not in a position to go back to USA until the injured boy

was discharged from the hospital. It was the plaintiff's case that in the month of July

1982, she had received a notice containing a divorce petition

lodged by the first defendant, but she was unable to go to the

USA and answer the notice and she was unable to take

further steps as the first defendant did not provide any

further financial support nor was he ready to sponsor her

visit to USA, which the American Consulate at Chennai

required. However, on 22.11.1982, the plaintiff managed to

go back to the USA, but she was not allowed to enter her 7 home by the first defendant and she had to seek refuge in a

Community Welfare Centre. It is later that she learnt that

the first defendant had instituted proceedings for judicial

separation before the Twenty-Sixth Judicial District Court,

Bossier Parish, Louisiana and that an ex-parte order had

been passed on 28.1.1982, granting judicial separation. It

was the plaintiff's case that though the plaintiff had made an

attempt to resist the divorce petition that followed, a decree

of divorce was granted as on 3.12.1982. The plaintiff had

questioned the binding effect of the said divorce decree on

the ground that the plaintiff and the first defendant were

lingayaths and were governed by the Hindu Marriage Act,

1955 (Hereinafter referred to as the '1955 Act' for brevity)

and the American court being a foreign court, had no

jurisdiction as regards the matrimonial affairs of the parties,

as they continued to be Indian citizens on the date of decree 8 of divorce granted by the American court and hence, it

would not bind the parties. Further, the first defendant had

taken advantage of the absence of the plaintiff from USA

and his sending her to India was with an ulterior motive of

obtaining such decree of divorce without resistance from

the plaintiff and therefore, he had practised fraud on the

American Court. Since the decree had been rendered

without recognition of the law of India, which was

applicable to the parties and since the proceedings of a

foreign court were not in conformity with the Hindu Law,

the same was opposed to natural justice and was invalid in

terms of Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908

(Hereinafter referred to as the ' CPC ' for brevity). It was further alleged by the plaintiff that in January

1983, the first defendant is said to have visited India and 9 had contracted a marriage with the second defendant as per

Hindu customary rites, as evidenced by a marriage

certificate, which has been produced, which further fortifies

the fact that the first defendant continued to be governed by

the Hindu law and therefore, the marital status of the

plaintiff was not dissolved in the eye of law and hence, the

purported marriage of the first defendant with the second

defendant was void. In this regard, the plaintiff had also

instituted a criminal case alleging an offence of bigamy

against the first defendant and it is in this background that

the suit was filed, which was subsequently amended to

incorporate the subsequent events, with a prayer for a

declaration that the marriage of the first defendant with the

second defendant was void and to declare that the judgment

and decree dated 3.12.1982 granted by the Twenty-Sixth

Judicial District Court, Bossier Parish, Louisiana, USA 10 against the plaintiff, as being null and void and not binding

on her. It is seen from the record that there are written

statements filed by the second defendant dated 4.10.1983

and 26.10.1990 and an additional written statement dated

22.7.1986. The first written statement dated 4.10.1983 is

signed by the second defendant, though only on the last

page of the written statement and the additional written

statement dated 22.7.1986 and the written statement dated

26.10.1990 are signed by the power of attorney holder of the

defendants. Therefore, there are no pleadings on behalf of

the first defendant. It is to be observed that the judgment of

the court below proceeds on the footing that the written

statements had been filed by the first defendant. In any

event, the written statements are to the following effect: 11 Issue nos.1,2,4 and 8 are answered in the negative and

issue nos.3, 9 and 10 are answered in the affirmative. 17 4. The court below has considered issue no.1, 2, 8 and

9 together and had formed an opinion that Section 13(1) , (a), (b) and (c) of the CPC were not applicable since the plaintiff

had failed to demonstrate that the decree of divorce was

inconsistent with the private international law or in

recognition of Indian law in a case where such law was

applicable and since it was not the case of the plaintiff that

she had no notice of the proceedings before the foreign

court and she herself had appeared before that court and had

pleaded her case, which was subsequently negatived by the

foreign court on the ground that she was guilty of deserting

defendant no.1 continuously for a period of six months after

the order of judicial separation was passed and since she was

not in a position to satisfy the requirement, that she had

rejoined her husband during the period of six months after 18 the order of judicial separation. There was justification in

the foreign court having applied the law of that State of

USA. Therefore, it was the opinion of the trial court that the

judgment passed by the American Court was in order and

that it was final. Insofar as the contention that the judgment

of the foreign court suffered from an infirmity as it was in

breach of the Indian law, since under the Indian law, after an

order of judicial separation is passed, the decree of divorce

can be granted only after the expiry of two years from the

date of order of judicial separation. Therefore, it was

opposed to Section 13 of the 1955 Act and would attract Section 13(f) of the CPC. The trial court has opined that Section 19 of the 1955 Act provides that a petition for

divorce could be instituted where the parties last resided

together and since they were ordinarily residing within the

jurisdiction of the foreign court, the petition having been 19 filed therein, did enable the first defendant to invoke the

jurisdiction of the American Court and since the plaintiff has

not raised the issue of jurisdiction, that contention was not

available to the plaintiff. Further, the trial court has formed

an opinion that since the decree of divorce is final and

binding on the plaintiff, the present suit filed by the plaintiff

was barred by the doctrine of res judicata and has further

answered issue no.3, while assigning the reason that since

the plaintiff did not join defendant no.1 within six months

from the date of the order of judicial separation and though

she had a right of appeal, did not seek to question the

decree, on the other hand, had proceeded to seek for

maintenance pursuant to the decree of divorce and it was

possible only if she had conceded the position that the

marriage stood dissolved. The court has also taken

exception to the plaintiff not having examined herself in the 20 case and therefore, has opined that the plaintiff was estopped

from challenging the decree granted by a foreign court. In

answering issue no.4, the court below has held that once the

decree of the foreign court is upheld, the marriage of

defendant no.1 with defendant no.2 would not be invalid or

illegal and further has answered issue no.2, holding that

since the plaintiff did not question the validity of the

judgment passed by the American Court by way of an

appeal, she has waived her right to question the same and

has also expressed that if the status of the plaintiff in the

USA is that of a divorced wife of defendant no.1, other

countries must also recognise the same. On the other hand,

if the trial court were to decree the suit of the plaintiff,

conversely, the American Court would not recognise the

same. This would lead to utter confusion and therefore, has

expressed that it is not a fit case where discretion could be 21 exercised in favour of the plaintiff and has accordingly,

dismissed the suit. It is that which is under challenge in the

present appeal. 5. The learned Counsel for the appellant would submit

 that having regard to the facts and circumstances, the court

 below has failed to address the scope and effect of Section 13 of the CPC, when it was apparent that the case of

 the plaintiff could not have been negated on the footing that

 the first defendant had obtained a decree of divorce granted

 by a US Civil Court, when the sequence of events would

 indicate that the decree passed by the said court was in

 violation of the principles of natural justice and was vitiated

 by the conduct of the first defendant bordering on fraud and

 that the said decree was in breach of the personal law

 governing the parties and in force in India. It was also 22 vitiated for an incorrect application of the international

law and the blatant refusal to recognise the personal law

applicable to the parties, which rendered the US Court

incompetent to dissolve the marriage of the parties, as it

had no jurisdiction insofar as the matrimonial relationship

was concerned, which was governed exclusively by the

provisions of the 1955 Act. temporary residence of the parties within its jurisdiction.

Assuming that the foreign court could exercise jurisdiction on

the basis of such domicile, it could not have been exercised to

dissolve a marriage governed by the provisions of the 1955

Act, which does not contemplate the exercise of jurisdiction

under its provisions by a court outside the territory of India. 23 It is therefore contended that the decree of divorce by the

foreign court is void, as it is rendered by a Court, which did

not have jurisdiction. It is contended that the reasoning of the court below that

the plaintiff had submitted to the jurisdiction of a foreign

court and therefore, was estopped from challenging the binding

effect of the decree of divorce granted by a foreign court, is

an incorrect premise. The order of judicial separation was

granted ex parte. Notwithstanding that a curator was appointed

on behalf of the plaintiff herein before the foreign court, the

question of initial want of jurisdiction was not raised nor was

present to the mind of the court at that point of time. Though

the plaintiff had received the notice of those proceedings it was

at a point of time when the plaintiff had to deal with several

situations, namely, that she was then back in India and was not

enabled to return to America for want of sufficient funds, which 24 again, was a circumstance engineered by the first defendant and

the fact that one of her sons was seriously injured and

hospialised and she could not leave his bedside. The plaintiff

however, had appeared before the American Court only at the

final stage of consideration of the petition for divorce pursuant

to the non-compliance with the condition imposed in the

order of judicial separation, where she was required to join the

society of the first defendant, failing which, he was entitled to a

decree of divorce by virtue of such default and it is that

circumstance which has weighed uppermost with the foreign

court and the court has proceeded to negate any other

contention that was raised, including the protest of the plaintiff

that the personal law applicable could not be enforced before

the foreign court. Therefore, the decree of the foreign court was

opposed to the principles of natural justice as there was no

adequate hearing on the primary issue of jurisdiction at the 25 appropriate time and the application of the local American law

in accordance with the settled principles therein has, however,

resulted in a miscarriage of justice against the plaintiff, who

was entitled to protection of her personal law as an Indian

citizen at that point of time. The said decree of divorce

therefore, could not be said to be a decision which has

decided all the issues that would arise between the parties and

hence, the court below was in error in holding that the suit

was barred by res judicata . The decree of the foreign court is also not binding

even if it is held that the plaintiff had acquiesced and

submitted to the jurisdiction of the foreign court.

Though the ground of divorce was available under the 1955

Act, there being a variation thereof, in the manner in

which, divorce could follow an order of judicial separation, as

is evident. Insofar as the American Law that has been applied 26 only required a lessor period should elapse from the date of

order of judicial separation before the decree of divorce could

be granted, clearly in variance with Section 13 of the 1955

Act, which requires 24 months to elapse before a decree of

divorce could be granted. Therefore, when the decree

of divorce is clearly in violation of the law as applicable in

India, the same would clearly be opposed to Section 13 of

the CPC. It is further contended that insofar as the subsequent

conduct of the plaintiff pursuant to the grant of decree of

divorce by the foreign court in having approached the very

court for further reliefs, such as, enhancement of child support

and other reliefs, would not by itself clothe a decree, which was

void in the eye of the Indian law, with validity. 27 The learned counsel would place reliance on the

following authorities in support of his contentions and

would seek that the suit be decreed as prayed for. 1. Sankaran Govindan vs. Lakshmi Bharathi and

others , AIR 1974 SC 1764 2. Smt. Satya vs. Teja Singh , AIR 1975 SC 105 3. Y. Narasimha Rao and others vs. Y.Venkata Lakshmi

and another ,

1991 (3) SCC 451 4. M/s. International Woollen Mills vs. M/s. Standard

Wool (U.K.) Limited,AIR 2001 SC 2134 5. Deva Prasad Reddy vs. Kamini Reddy and another ,

ILR 2002 KAR 2835 6. Smt. Anubha vs. Vikas Aggarwal and others , AIR

2003 DELHI 175. The learned counsel for the respondents, on the other

hand, seeks to justify the judgment of the court below. He

would submit that the plaint allegations as to the conduct of the

first defendant have not been established, as found by the court

below. The primary contention that the decree of divorce

obtained by the first defendant as being null and void on the

several grounds urged are not tenable. He would contend that

the assertion as to the decree of divorce having been granted by

a foreign court, which did not have jurisdiction over the

matrimonial relationship of the plaintiff and the first defendant

is an incorrect premise. It is well settled, as spelt out by the

apex court that it is not unknown to the rule of private

international law that Indian citizens living abroad, even

temporarily, are enabled to invoke the law of a foreign country,

which confers jurisdiction on the court, over the parties by

virtue of their domicile, as was the case insofar as the 29 parties to the present proceedings are concerned. It is not in

dispute that the plaintiff and the first defendant were residing as

husband and wife within the jurisdiction of the Twenty-Sixth

Judicial District Court, Bossier Parish, Louisiana and the

law of that State in the USA did provide that a person could

petition the court for judicial separation and divorce, by virtue

of his residence within the jurisdiction of that court. Secondly,

the ground on which the relief of judicial separation and

divorce were claimed, was that of desertion, by the plaintiff of

defendant no.1. This is a ground, which is also available under

the 1955 Act, which is the personal law of the parties.

Therefore, there is no inconsistency insofar as the law

applicable or the ground on which such relief was sought before

the foreign court. The variance in the procedural particulars as

to the period prescribed from the date of order of judicial

separation, in order to enable a party to seek a decree of 30 divorce, are clearly procedural. As long as the substantive law

or the ground on which the divorce was sought was in

consonance with the Indian law, it cannot be said that there was

want of jurisdiction or the relief granted by the foreign court

was without recognition of the Indian law. It is further contended that the claim of the plaintiff as to

there being want of notice insofar as the proceedings for

judicial separation and divorce is concerned, is incorrect. It is

not denied by the plaintiff that she was absent from the USA

and was in India, at the relevant point of time. Even then she

had been represented by a Curator before the foreign court. The

contention of the plaintiff that she was deliberately prevented

from returning to US, since the first defendant failed to provide

the necessary funds, is also not a tenable contention, as it is the

plaintiff's own case that she, along with her mother, had

inherited vast properties and therefore, was well provided for in 31 her own right and ultimately, she has returned to the US,

apparently at her own cost. This would belie the allegation that

the plaintiff was prevented at the relevant point of time from

returning to the US and contesting the proceedings for judicial

separation. In any event, the plaintiff had, in fact, participated

in the proceedings for divorce and had effectively cross-

examined the first defendant and had also tendered evidence

before the foreign court. More significantly, after the grant of

decree of divorce on 3.12.1982, the petitioner did not choose to

challenge the same by way of an appeal before a higher court in

the US, which she was entitled to do. On the other hand, there

were several proceedings whereby the plaintiff had sought for

division of the properties belonging to the first defendant in the

USA, as also the relief of enhancement of child support and

for alimony. These proceedings were clearly initiated, on the

footing that there was a divorce, by which the marriage of the 32 plaintiff and the first defendant stood dissolved and such

petitions were filed over a period of several years between 1983

and 1988. Further, in the year 1990, the plaintiff had chosen to

file a petition to annul the judgment of the District Court and on

dismissal of the same, an appeal was filed before the Court of

Appeal, Second Circuit, State of Louisiana. That appeal was

disposed of by a judgment dated 28.2.2001 and the Court of

Appeal has observed as follows:- However, such an attack pursuant to art. 2002, is
limited pursuant to La. C.C.P. art. 2003, which states as
follows: 7. To answer the first point for consideration, it would be

useful to keep in view the settled legal position applicable to

cases, such as the present one, having due regard to the facts

and circumstances. The discussion on the legal provisions

involved by the apex Court in the case of Satya vs. Teja Singh ,

AIR 1975 SC 105, may be usefully noticed. The facts leading up to that case were as follows :- Reliance is also placed on M/s International

Woollen Mills vs. M/s Standard Wool (U.K.) Limited, AIR

2001 SC 2134. This was a case where the appellant had

placed an order with the respondent for purchase of greasy

fleece wool. The goods were shipped to Mumbai in 60 September 1996. The appellant claimed the goods from

Mumbai and took them to Ludhiana. The appellant did not

pay the price of the goods on the ground that upon taking

delivery, it was found that the goods were of an inferior

quality. The respondent issued a notice in October 1997.

The appellant relied to the same in November 1997. In

January 1998, the respondent filed a case in Central London

County Court in the United Kingdom and the respondent

claimed that the appellant was served with the summons of

that case. The appellant claimed that he had not been served.

In April 1998, an ex parte decree came to be passed by

that court. In August 1998, the respondent filed an execution

application in the Court of the Civil Judge, Ludhiana. On

receipt of the summons, the appellant filed an application

praying for dismissal of the execution application as it was filed

without following the procedure prescribed under the CPC . In 61 reply, the respondent contended that the execution was under There are copies of proceedings before the foreign court.

The pleadings on behalf of the appellant before that court,

apparently, are filed without regard to the Indian law and

absence of jurisdiction, which would be apparent going by the

admitted circumstances, in that, as on the date of the grant of

decree of divorce by the foreign court, the plaintiff and the first 75 defendant who were married according to Hindu religious rites

in India and continued to be governed by the 1955 Act, was a

clear bar of jurisdiction insofar as their marriage being

adjudicated by a foreign court. The appellant had appeared

before the foreign court and had even tendered evidence at the

final stages of the divorce proceedings. Insofar as the clear

legal bar in the Indian law in respect of the adjudication of their

matrimonial dispute was concerned, from Page-208 (marked in

red ink) of the Court Records, the exchange between the

foreign court and the appellant is recorded verbatim. The

appellant in her halting English, has tried to explain to the

court that it had no jurisdiction and the same is reproduced here

to demonstrate that in her own words, she has attempted to

bring to the attention of the court that she seeks to resist the

grant of divorce.