R. Subbiah, J

 This appeal is filed by the appellant questioning the correctness and/or

 validity of the Judgment and Decree dated 11.12.2013 passed in F.C.O.P. No. 80 of

 2008 on the file of Family Court, Salem. By the said Judgment dated 11.12.2013,

 the Family Court, Salem dismissed the Original Petition filed by the appellant

 seeking to dissolve the marriage solemnised between him and the respondent on

 01.06.2006 on the ground of cruelty as contemplated under Section 13 (1) (i-a) of

 The
http://www.judis.nic.in Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 . 2. The appellant herein has filed F.C.O.P. No. 80 of 2008 before the

 Family Court, Salem contending that he married the respondent on 01.06.2006 and

 the marriage was solemnised as per Hindu rites and customs at Balasubramania

 Swamy Temple, Oothumalai, Salem in the presence of friends and relatives of both

 sides. On the same day, a marriage reception was conducted in P.C.C. Marriage

 Hall, Jagiredipatti, Salem. At the time of marriage, the appellant presented six

 sovereign of thali chain, five sovereigns of dollar chain and two rings weighing 2

 grams each to the respondent. According to the appellant, the jewels presented to

 the respondent at the time of her marriage were kept in her parents house itself. It

 is the specific grievance of the appellant that from the date of marriage, the

 respondent refused to have conjugal relationship with him under one pretext or the

 other. The appellant had expressed his intention to have sexual intercourse with the

 respondent, however, by assigning one reason or the other, the respondent refused

 to have sexual intercourse with him and procrastinated it. Even after one week of

 the marriage when the appellant and respondent went to Cuddalore where the

 appellant is working, the respondent did not evince any interest to accede to the

 reasonable and legitimate desire of the appellant to have sexual intercourse with

 him. This has caused acute mental agony and disturbance to the appellant, whose

 expectation to consummate marriage could not be fulfilled by reason of the attitude

 of the respondent. While so, during June 2006, the appellant lost his employment

 and therefore he sent the respondent to her parents house to stay there for some

 time. At the same time, the respondent got employment in a College at

 Komarapalayam during August 2006 and she was attending to her employment.

 Since the respondent was staying at her parents house and was going for
http://www.judis.nic.in
 employment, the appellant went to the parents house of the respondent 3 occasionally during which he informed the parents of the respondent about the

 reluctance of the respondent to consummate the marriage. The parents of the

 respondent also cited the physical weakness of the respondent as a reason for her

 reluctance to consummate the marriage and they assured the appellant that they

 will do all that is required to improve her health. While so, during the end of

 October 2006, the respondent resigned her employment on her own accord,

 purportedly due to her physical inability. At this stage, according to the appellant, in

 order to get more proximity in the relationship between him and the respondent, he

 had taken the respondent for a trip to Munaar and stayed there for three days

 between 21st October 2006 and 23rd October 2006 but even there, he could not

 succeed in convincing the respondent to have conjugal relationship with him. In the

 meantime, the appellant got employed as a Finance Consultant in a private firm at

 Pondicherry and therefore, he and the respondent had taken a house for rent at

 Pondicherry and stayed there from December 2006. Even during such stay, the

 respondent refused conjugal relationship with the appellant. As the respondent was

 physically not stable in her health, she was taken for treatment to a private hospital

 at Pondicherry. After examination, the Doctors have opined that the respondent is

 suffering from a dreaded disease called Rheumatoid Arthritis, coupled with Vascular

 disease and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. The appellant was also informed by

 the Doctors that better treatment facilities are available at Chennai and directed him

 to take respondent for further treatment there. Accordingly, the respondent went to

 Chennai where she was treated by the Doctors at Government General Hospital,

 Chennai. After medical examination, the Doctors at Chennai confirmed that the

 respondent is suffering from the above dreaded disease and also prescribed
http://www.judis.nic.in
 medicines to be taken on a daily basis. The respondent was thereafter sent to her 4 parents house to take rest, as advised by the Doctors. 3. According to the appellant, he went to the parents house of the

 respondent on the eve of Pongal festival during January 2007 and at that time, he

 was informed that the respondent will be sent to the matrimonial home within a

 week. It was also stated that presently the respondent is taking native treatment

 and she is not taking the medicines prescribed by the Government Hospital at

 Chennai. However, even after two weeks, the respondent did not join the

 matrimonial company of the appellant. Therefore, a mediation was convened at the

 instance of elders of both sides during which it was stated on behalf of the

 appellant that in view of the ailment suffered by the respondent, she may not be fit

 for engaging herself in marital life. Therefore, it was suggested that the matrimonial

 tie can be snapped by approaching the competent Court for getting a decree of

 divorce. Such a suggestion was not acceded to by the respondent and she

 threatened the appellant with dire consequences if he proceeded to dissolve the

 marriage through a competent Court of law. According to the appellant, the

 respondent and her parents have suppressed the dreaded disease suffered by the

 respondent prior to the marriage. The respondent and her parents, knowing fully

 well that the respondent is not fit enough to engage in marital life, have solemnised

 the marriage of the respondent with the appellant thereby the appellant was

 subjected to acute cruelty and hardship. It is the contention of the appellant that

 the respondent did not discharge her matrimonial obligations, particularly she did

 not engage in sexual intercourse with him from the date of marriage, thereby, the

 object with which the marriage has been solemnised itself has been defeated.
http://www.judis.nic.in
 Even the efforts taken by the appellant to cure the disease suffered by the 5 respondent went in vain due to the refusal on the part of the respondent to follow

 the advise given by the Doctors at Government General Hospital, Chennai in taking

 the medicines prescribed. The appellant therefore would contend that the very

 purpose and object with which he married the respondent has been defeated by

 reason of the attitude of the respondent. The appellant had suffered enough at the

 hands of the respondent and he could not continue the matrimonial life with her.

 Therefore, the appellant has filed the Original Petition for dissolution of the

 marriage on the ground of cruelty. 4. Repudiating the averments made in the Original Petition, the

 respondent filed a counter statement contending that at the time of marriage, her

 parents have gifted 100 sovereigns of gold jewellery besides other household

 articles and performed the marriage well. After the marriage, the respondent was

 employed in a College at Komarapalayam with good physique and without any

 disability. At no point of time the respondent refused to have sexual intercourse with

 the appellant and it is a blatant lie. Since the appellant got an employment in

 Pondicherry, the respondent resigned her employment in the College at

 Komarapalayam and such resignation is not owing to the ill health of the

 respondent. After resigning her employment, the respondent joined the matrimonial

 company of the appellant and resided at Pondicherry. The appellant has filed the

 Original Petition with false and untenable averments as if the respondent is

 suffering from a dreaded disease and on that ground she allegedly refused conjugal

 relationship with him. The respondent is always ready and willing to lead a

 peaceful and blissful matrimonial life with the appellant, however, it is the appellant
http://www.judis.nic.in
 who is ignoring and neglecting the respondent from joining his matrimonial 6 company. The intention of the appellant is to get the marriage dissolved and to re-

 marry another girl. The respondent is hale and healthy and she is not suffering

 form any disease, much less a dreaded disease as projected by the appellant. The

 respondent therefore prayed for dismissal of the Original Petition. 5. Before the Family Court, the appellant examined himself as PW1 and

 marked Exs. P1 to P7 on his side. On the side of the respondent, the respondent

 examined herself as RW1, one Mr. Kandasamy Ganesan, father of respondent, as

 RW2 and Dr. V. Rathinavel as RW3 and marked Exs. R1 to R4. The Family Court,

 upon analysing the oral and documentary evidence concluded that the appellant

 mainly contended that the respondent is suffering from a dreaded disease with the

 result, she could not engage herself in cohabitation with him, thereby he was

 subjected to acute mental pain and hardship. However, to prove the nature of

 disease said to have been suffered by the respondent, the appellant has not

 examined any Doctor on his side. Even though Exs. P1 to P4 were filed to show the

 treatment taken by the respondent, those documents disclose that the respondent

 has not taken treatment for Arthiritis ailment and there is nothing to show the nature

 of treatment extended to her was particularly for Rheumatoid Arthritis, coupled with

 Vascular disease and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. On the other hand, the

 respondent examined RW3, Doctor, who has given a Certificate under Ex.R4

 stating that the respondent is not suffering from any dreaded disease and that she

 is fit enough to engage herself in marital life. Therefore, the Family Court

 concluded that the basis on which the Original Petition has been filed by the

 appellant that the respondent is suffering from a dreaded disease has not been

 established by the appellant. The Family Court also concluded that there is nothing
http://www.judis.nic.in
 to show that the respondent is unfit to indulge herself in marital life and that the 7 appellant has been subjected to matrimonial cruelty at the instance of the

 respondent. Therefore the Family Court dismissed the Original Petition filed by the

 appellant for dissolution of the marriage on the ground of cruelty. Aggrieved by the

 same, the present Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is filed by the appellant. 6. The learned counsel for the appellant would submit that Ex.P5 is the

 Certificate issued by a Doctor to the respondent. As per Ex.P5 the respondent was

 diagnosed with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus and she was directed to consult a

 Rheumatologist in a higher medical institution for further management. Similarly,

 Ex.P6 is the Certificate issued by Apollo Hospitals, Chennai confirming that the

 respondent is suffering from Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Therefore, it is clear

 that the respondent is suffering from a dreaded disease due to which she became

 unfit to engage herself in cohabitation. While so, the Family Court, without

 assigning any reason, has discarded Exs. P5 and P6, Certificates issued by the

 competent hospitals in favour of the respondent. The Family Court failed to

 consider that due to the disease suffered by the respondent, her health condition

 deteriorated and she could not lead a normal life, much less to indulge in sexual

 intercourse with the appellant and to fulfil her marital obligations. Even the

 respondent did not specifically deny that she is suffering from the aforesaid

 disease. The respondent also did not deny that she had taken treatment at

 Government General Hospital, Chennai and subsequently at Apollo Hospital,

 Chennai. Thus, the respondent is suffering from serious ailment owing to which

 she refused to have sexual intercourse with the appellant. In this context, the

 learned counsel for the appellant relied on the decision of the Division Bench of this
http://www.judis.nic.in

 Court in the case of ( S. Indrakumari vs. S. Subbaiah ) reported in 2003 (1) CTC 8 259 wherein it was held that wilful denial of sexual intercourse by one's spouse

 when other spouse is anxious for it would amount to cruelty and more particularly

 when couple are young and newly wed. Reliance was also placed on the decision

 of the Honourable Supreme Court in the case of Praveen Mehta vs. Inderjit Mehta reported in (2002) 5 SCC 706). In that case, it was held that the husband, who was

 enjoying normal health was likely to feel a sense of anguish and frustration in being

 deprived of normal cohabitation that every married person expects to enjoy. In

 such circumstances, it was held that denial by the wife to undergo proper medical

 treatment to improve her health and thereby depriving the husband to lead a normal

 sexual life would amount to cruelty. 7. For the same proposition, reliance was also placed on the decision of

 the Honourable Supreme Court in Samar Ghosh vs. Jaya Ghosh reported in 2007

 (4) SCC 511 wherein it was held that wife's refusal to cohabit with her husband and

 her unilateral decision not to have any children for some time would cause mental

 cruelty on the husband. 8. The learned counsel for the appellant would further contend that in

 order to establish that the respondent is suffering from the disease called Systemic

 Lupus Erythematosus, before the Family Court, the appellant has taken out an

 application in I.A. No. 47 of 2011 praying to direct the respondent to undergo

 medical examination at Rheumatic Care Centre attached to Government General

 Hospital, Chennai and after her examination to submit a report by the hospital

 authorities to the Court. The said application was resisted by the respondent by
http://www.judis.nic.in

 stating she is hale and healthy and is in a position to lead a normal life, while so, 9 the question of subjecting herself to any medical test is not warranted. It was

 further stated that the petition has been filed only to protract the Original Petition

 and prayed for dismissal of the same. It was further contended that the respondent

 has already filed a medical certificate obtained from a Doctor under Ex.R4 and she

 also examined the Doctor as RW3 before the Family Court, while so, the petition

 has been filed at the fag end of the proceedings. The Family Court allowed the

 application in I.A. No. 47 of 2011 and directed the respondent to undergo a medical

 examination, but she failed and neglected to undergo the test. Inspite of the same,

 the Family Court, instead of taking an adverse inference against the respondent

 has dismissed the Original Petition by erroneously holding that the appellant has

 failed to establish the disease suffered by the respondent and that it was the cause

 for non-cohabitation between the spouse. The Family Court failed to take note of

 the fact that the appellant had taken all necessary steps to prove the ailment of the

 respondent, while so, the finding rendered by the Family Court that the appellant

 failed to prove the medical infirmities of the respondent is untenable. In this

 context, reliance was placed on the decision of the Division Bench of the Calcutta

 High Court in the case of Birendra Kumar Biswas vs. Hemlata Biswas reported

 in AIR 1921 Calcutta 459 wherein it was held that concealment of a loathsome and

 insurable form of syphilis is recognised as a fraud sufficient to warrant divorce or

 annulment, especially where the existence of the disease is discovered by the other

 party before the marriage is consummated. Such disease must be actually and

 probably incurable but annulment has been granted notwithstanding a mere remote

 possibility of a cure. http://www.judis.nic.in 9. The learned counsel for the appellant would further contend that the 10 Family Court considered Exs. P4 to P7 as genuine. Ex.P4 to P7 are medical

 records issued by the Rheumatology Care Centre attached to the Government

 General Hospital, Chennai to the respondent. However, the Family Court discarded

 Exs. P4 to P7 on the ground that it reveals that the respondent had only gone for a

 diagnosis and the result of the diagnosis is not reflected therein. The Family Court

 failed to note that the documentary evidence under Ex.P4 to P7 clearly reveals the

 nature of ailment suffered by the respondent and the treatment given to her. While

 so, the finding of the Family Court that the appellant has not examined the Doctor

 to establish the ailment suffered by the respondent is untenable. On the other

 hand, the Family Court carried on by the deposition of Doctor, RW3, examined on

 the side of the respondent, who in his deposition has admitted that he is not aware

 of the pathologist and scientific biochemist details and the nature of test done to the

 respondent. While so, the Family Court ought not to have relied on the deposition

 of RW3, Doctor or Ex.R4, Certificate issued by him to hold that the appellant did not

 prove the physical infirmities of the respondent. Further, the Family Court erred in

 considering the lab report under Ex.R4 to conclude that the respondent is hale and

 healthy. In effect, the learned counsel for the appellant would contend that the

 respondent had concealed the serious ailment suffered by her prior to the marriage

 and that the marriage was solemnised by fraud but this was not properly

 considered by the Family Court. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant

 would further contend that the Family Court failed to take into consideration the

 documentary evidence filed on behalf of the appellant to show the nature of

 disease suffered by the respondent. According to the counsel for the appellant,

 even prior to the institution of the Original Petition, on behalf of the appellant, a
http://www.judis.nic.in
 notice dated 25.02.2008, Ex.A-2 was sent to the respondent in which it was clearly 11 stated that the respondent is suffering from Systemic Lupus Erythematosus even

 prior to the marriage, however, it was suppressed by the respondent at the time of

 marriage and thereafter. According to the counsel for the appellant, due to the

 serious ailment which the respondent suffers, she is not fit enough to engage

 herself in marital intercourse with the appellant. Even otherwise, from January

 2007 to till date, the appellant and the respondent are residing separately without

 any physical contact and this long separation had rendered the marriage

 relationship between the appellant and the respondent an otiose. In this context,

 the learned counsel for the appellant relied on the decision of the Honourable

 Supreme Court in ( Rishikesh Sharma vs. Saroj Sharma ) reported in Case No.

 Appeal (Civil) 5129 of 2006 to contend that when the parties to the lis are living

 separately for a considerable length of time, compelling them to live together is not

 warranted. In such circumstances the best course to be adopted is to dissolve the

 marriage solemnised between them so as to enable them to live peacefully in their

 remaining part of life. 10. The learned counsel for the appellant has also invited our attention to

 the deposition of the respondent, as RW1 and her father, as RW2. According to

 the counsel for the appellant, the respondent has admitted that she did not

 cooperate with the appellant to lead a normal life. At the same breadth, the

 respondent denied that she has taken any treatment in Pondicherry or at Chennai,

 which are contrary to the documentary evidence under Exs. P1 to P4. Further,

 RW2, father of the respondent has also admitted that he has not produced any

 documentary evidence to show that the respondent is not suffering from the
http://www.judis.nic.in

 diseases indicated in the Original Petition by the appellant. The learned counsel 12 for the appellant would therefore contend that the appellant has clearly established

 the diseases for which the respondent had taken treatment, owing to which she

 could not lead a normal marital life with the appellant. In such circumstances, the

 Family Court ought to have allowed the original petition filed by the appellant

 instead of dismissing it. 11. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent would contend that

 soon after the marriage between the appellant and the respondent on 01.06.2006

 at Salem, the couple have stayed at Cuddalore in a separate house where the

 appellant was employed. There was sexual intercourse between the appellant and

 the respondent which made their life peaceful and blissful. Thereafter, during

 December 2007 the appellant got an employment at Pondicherry and therefore, the

 couple have moved to Pondicherry where also they stayed in a separate house.

 However, the appellant has filed the Original Petition alleging that the respondent is

 suffering from a dreaded disease owing to which she could not indulge in normal

 sexual life. Thus, the principal contention of the appellant is that the respondent

 was inflicted with a dreaded disease and that is the reason for her disinclination to

 engage herself in sexual intercourse with the appellant, thereby, the appellant, a

 newly married youth, was deprived of giving vent to his feelings to have normal

 sexual intercourse. In such circumstances, the burden is heavy on the shoulders of

 the appellant to prove that the respondent is suffering from a dreaded disease or a

 communicable disease, which had adversely affected the normal marital life.

 According to the counsel for the respondent, section 13 (1) (v) of The Hindu

 Marriage Act contemplates that if one of the spouse suffers from a venereal
http://www.judis.nic.in
 disease in a communicable form and the existence of such disease is established, 13 then the other spouse is entitled for a decree of divorce. In the present case, the

 appellant did not prove that the respondent is suffering from any venereal disease

 in a communicable form, which deprived her of discharging her normal matrimonial

 obligations, as expected by the appellant. Even otherwise, the disease for which

 the respondent is said to have taken treatment will not fall within the ambit of Section 13 (1) (v) of The Hindu Marriage Act and therefore, the appellant is

 estopped from seeking a decree of divorce on this ground. 12. The learned counsel for the respondent would contend that Exs. P1 to

 P7 were filed on behalf of the appellant to contend that the respondent is suffering

 from Systemic Lupus Erythematosus even prior to the marriage and that the

 existence of such disease was suppressed by her at the time of marriage. Ex.P4 is

 the blood test report and it did not reveal the existence of the aforesaid disease.

 Ex.P6 and P7 are the medical reports issued by Apollo Hospital at Chennai.

 However, the appellant did not prove by any documentary evidence that the

 respondent was subjected to such test in Apollo Hospital and based on such

 examination those documents have emanated. This is more so since the

 respondent denied having undergone any test at Apollo Hospital, Chennai.

 Therefore, it is doubtful as to whether the documents have emanated based on the

 physical medical test undergone by the respondent. According to the learned

 counsel for the respondent, Dr. Vasanthakumkar, who issued certificate under Exs.

 P6 and P7 as if he had examined the respondent is none other than the appellant's

 cousin and therefore it is highly doubtful as to the manner in which Exs. P6 to P7

 have emanated. Moreover, the appellant did not examine any one else to prove the
http://www.judis.nic.in
 genuineness of the documents and that is the reason why the Family Court has 14 rightly discarded Exs. P4 to P6 from consideration. On the other hand, the

 respondent examined RW3, Doctor who has examined the respondent and issued

 Exs. R4 which would clearly prove that the respondent is not suffering from any

 disease. 13. The learned counsel for the respondent submits that the appellant has

 contended that RW3, Doctor examined on the side of the respondent is not a

 competent person to depose on behalf of the respondent. It was also contended

 that RW3 is not specialised in Rheumatology and therefore his report cannot be

 considered. The fact remains that RW3 is highly qualified to examine the

 respondent to diagnose whether she is suffering from the so-called disease or not

 for which there is no requirement to examine a Doctor who is specialised in that

 particular field. When the appellant alleged that the respondent is suffering from a

 dreaded disease, the burden is heavy on his shoulder to prove the same to the

 satisfaction of this Court. Instead the appellant alleged that the Doctor who

 examined on the side of the respondent is not a specialist and therefore his

 deposition has to be discarded, without examining any Doctor on his side. In this

 context, the learned counsel for the respondent placed reliance on the decision of

 the Division Bench of this Court in the case of (Lakshmi Priya vs. K.V.

 Krishnamoorthy) reported in 2007 (2) Law Weekly 261 wherein it was held that it

 is the settled proposition of law that the burden lies on the person who affirms a fact

 and not on the party who denies it. 14. The learned counsel for the respondent would further place reliance
http://www.judis.nic.in

 on the decision of the Division Bench of this Court in the case of R. 15 Sivasubramanian vs. S. Krishnaveni reported in 2007 (1) CTC 198 wherein it was

 held that in para No.11 and 12 as follows:- 15. By placing reliance on the above decision , the learned counsel for the

 respondent would contend that the appellant, who is seeking a decree of divorce on

 the ground of cruelty, has a huge burden to establish that he was treated cruelly by

 the respondent, but in the present case, the appellant would only contend that he

 was refused sexual bliss by the respondent owing to her ill health. When the

 appellant could not establish that the respondent is suffering from a dreaded

 disease, it cannot be said that the respondent is unfit to engage herself in sexual

 intercourse with the appellant. This is more so that the respondent has

 categorically
http://www.judis.nic.in stated that the appellant was not denied cohabitation and there was

 cohabitation between them. In such circumstances, the learned counsel for the 16 respondent would pray for dismissal of this appeal by confirming the decree and

 judgment passed by the Family Court. 16. We have heard the learned counsel for both sides and perused the

 materials placed on record. As we have dealt with the factual matrix of the case in

 detail, we refrain ourself from dealing with the narration of the facts of the case any

 further. At the same time, certain facts, which are germane and necessary for

 disposal of this appeal alone are considered. 17. The marriage between the appellant and the respondent was

 solemnised on 01.06.2006 at Uthamalai, Salem. The marriage was arranged by the

 elders of both sides. Admittedly, after one week from the date of marriage, the

 appellant and the respondent went to Cuddalore where the appellant was employed

 and resided there. It is also an admitted fact that the appellant lost his employment

 and therefore, the respondent was sent to her parents house for some time.

 Subsequently, during December 2006, the appellant secured an employment at

 Puducherry and therefore, the appellant and respondent stayed at Puducherry from

 December 2006 in a separate house for rent. 18. The main grievance of the appellant is that the respondent did not

 cooperate with him in having sexual intercourse from the date of marriage and that

 the marriage was not consummated at all. In view of the non-consummation of the

 marriage, the appellant was subjected to acute mental agony and hardship. As a

 newly married man, he had lot of expectations and desires to lead a blissful marital
http://www.judis.nic.in
 life, but due to the refusal on the part of the respondent in having sexual 17 intercourse with him, he was put to untold mental agony and pain. The appellant

 attributes such refusal on the part of the respondent to an incurable, rather dreaded

 disease suffered by her for which she was given treatment by him. It is also his

 contention that the respondent, knowing fully well about the disease which she

 suffered, did not reveal it to the appellant prior to the marriage and by suppressing

 the pre-existing disease, the respondent was given in marriage to him. 19. With this background, it has to be examined as to (i) whether the

 appellant has proved that the respondent is suffering from a dreaded disease which

 had resulted in non-consummation of the marriage (ii) whether the respondent

 suppressed the existence of any such disease prior to the marriage and thereby

 committed a fraud on the appellant and (iii) whether the appellant had established

 that he was subjected to matrimonial cruelty by the respondent by refusing to

 confer the conjugal bliss to the appellant. 20. Before dealing with the rival contentions, it is necessary to point out

 that the appellant has come forward with the Original Petition complaining that the

 respondent refused him sexual bliss. It was also complained that by reason of such

 refusal on the part of the respondent, he was subjected to matrimonial cruelty and

 on that ground he seeks for a decree of divorce. The appellant went on to contend

 that the respondent is suffering from Rheumatoid Arthritis and therefore, she will not

 have the urge to engage in cohabitation as a normal woman. When such being the

 complaint, the burden is heavy on the shoulders of the appellant to prove his case.

 However, in order to prove the disease suffered by the respondent, the appellant
http://www.judis.nic.in
 did not examine any Doctor on his side. On the contrary, the respondent has 18 examined a Doctor, as RW3 through whom a certificate was marked as Ex.R4 in

 which it was stated that the respondent will have no difficulty in leading a normal

 marital life. 21. As regards the allegation that the respondent has refused to cohabit

 with the appellant and the marriage has not been consummated, the respondent in

 her cross-examination has categorically deposed as follows:- http://www.judis.nic.in 24 29. The counsel for the appellant finally made a submission that the

 appellant and the respondent are living separately from 2007 and therefore, the

 long and separate living of the appellant and the respondent had rendered the

 matrimonial life meaningless and that the matrimonial life has been broken

 irretrievably beyond repair. We are not inclined to consider this contention of the

 counsel for the appellant for the reason that it is not the case of the appellant that

 the respondent deserted his matrimonial company without any just or sufficient

 cause. On the other hand, according to the respondent, the appellant and his family

 members have demanded a car to be presented to the appellant and owing to non-

 fulfilment of the same, the respondent was not taken back to the matrimonial home.

 At the same time, the appellant also did not take any steps to rejoin the respondent.

 Rather, in the Original Petition reference was made to a meeting arranged among

 the elders of the family members of both sides in which on behalf of the appellant it

 was only suggested that the matrimonial relationship can be dissolved by

 approaching the competent Court. To this the respondent asserted that she is only

 inclined to live with the appellant and if any steps are taken in that direction, she

 threatened the appellant and his family members with dire consequences. This

 piece of the averment made by the appellant in the Original Petition would fortify

 and strengthen the fact that the respondent is always ready and willing to live with

 the appellant and her intention is not to reside separately. In such view of the

 matter, we reject the argument of the counsel for the appellant. 30. In the light of the above, we confirm the Judgment and Decree dated

 11.12.2013 passed in F.C.O.P. No. 80 of 2008 on the file of Family Court, Salem.
http://www.judis.nic.in
 The Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is dismissed. No costs. (R.P.S.J.,) (C.S.N.J,)

 10-01-2019
 rsh

 Index : Yes

 To

 The Presiding Officer
 Family Court, Salem

http://www.judis.nic.in 26 R. SUBBIAH, J
 and
 C. SARAVANAN, J

 rsh

 Pre-delivery Judgment in CMA No. 1151 of 2014 10-01-2019

http://www.judis.nic.in