?If There’s One Story To Read Today

The Indian Civil Aviation Ministry issued a press release in response to MediaNama Editor Nikhil Pahwa’s tweet highlighting concerns about the data privacy of air travellers using the Digi Yatra facility, which uses facial recognition tech. In an attempt to clarify concerns about the collection and storage of people’s facial data, the Ministry tweeted out a screenshot of the Civil Aviation Minister responding to Pahwa stating that passenger data is not stored in a central repository.

It all started when the Ministry, in response to our Right to Information queries, replied saying that information on Digi Yatra does not come under RTI, which is quite strange as it’s one of the flagship projects of the Union government. Pahwa’s tweet triggered a discussion and Twitter users responded with more questions about the Digi Yatra data collection process.

The press release mainly reiterates what the minister tweeted, but there’s more to what’s being said. What are these unaddressed concerns? Find out here . [ 3.5 minutes ]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

To what extent does a user need to be identified? Can verification processes prevent scams? How can we protect our sensitive data while undergoing government verification? We will be raising and discussing these, and more such questions, at our hybrid roundtable on ‘Exploring User Verification’ at The Claridges in New Delhi on March 23 , 2023. Want to join? Register here . Need to know more? Read here .

CYBERSECURITY AND DATA BREACHES

The much-needed TikTok ban list: If you are tired of keeping track of which all countries have banned TikTok, you are not alone. It indeed is hard to keep up, as a new country seems to be added to the list every other day. To make it easier for you, we have prepared a full list of countries that have banned or are considering banning TikTok, and we hope to keep this list updated. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

ECOMMERCE AND GIG ECONOMY

Zomato pulls out of Jordan: It seems like Zomato has made up its mind about India and continues to shut down its international subsidiaries. The latest in the line is its step-down subsidiary located in Jordan which did not generate any revenue. It is clear that the company is going to focus on India but even India seems to be shaky as it only recently pulled out of 225 cities. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

Stuck in the waiting room : Over 12 online pharmacies have been trying to “seek an audience” with the Ministry of Health for a while now. Why? They want to explain their stance on the show-cause notices India’s drugs controller sent them in February for selling drugs online without a licence. The Ministry has stayed mum. Now that’s a busy waiting room. [ Read , 2 minutes ]

FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION

What right do you have? Twitter thinks some of the Indian government’s orders to block tweets and accounts are dodgy. Last year, it filed a petition at the Karnataka High Court saying so —and added that these orders harm its users’ free speech rights. The Indian government thinks otherwise, repeating once again in court yesterday, that a “foreign body corporate” like Twitter doesn’t enjoy free speech protections. ? [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

PLATFORM REGULATION

Are you doing enough? The US government wants to find out if social media and video streaming platforms are doing enough to prevent fraudulent and misleading ads. If you are one of those who got scammed by an ad you saw on YouTube, you’ll understand why this is important. The US FTC has issued orders to platforms seeking information, because, let’s admit it, there’s no other way to get these platforms to open up about their workings. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

U.S. lawmaker wants TikTok CEO to detail actions to protect kids [ Read ] (David Shepardson/Reuters)

Amazon sued for not telling New York store customers about facial recognition [ Read ] (Kevin Collier/CNBC)

Microsoft announces generative AI-powered Copilot 365 to ‘change work as we know it’ [ Read ] (Sharon Goldman/VentureBeat)

New Zealand to ban TikTok on devices linked to parliament, cites security concerns [ Read ] (Lucy Craymer/Reuters)

Google warns users to take action to protect against remotely exploitable flaws in popular Android phones [ Read ] (Zack Whittaker/Tech Crunch)

Chat-GPT Pretended To Be Blind and Tricked a Human into Solving a CAPTCHA [ Read ] (Kevin Hurler/Gizmodo)

FCC orders phone companies to block scam text messages [ Read ] (Jon Brodkin/Ars Technica)

Walmart invests $200 million in Indian mobile payments giant PhonePe [ Read ] (Manish Singh/Tech Crunch)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event