SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: FE developer seeking desperate career advice
DATE: 2023-08-04
SCORE: 18
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/15i16qn/fe_developer_seeking_desperate_career_advice/

--- POST TEXT ---

Tried posting in developersIndia but post is getting auto removed

A bit about me. 

I was not very driven in the initial days of my career (regrettably so) and I worked on random stuff through a few orgs(which I won't name). I worked on stuff like Java, Python, Django, Apache Tomcat. 
In my third job in 4 years, I was called by my manager and advised to look elsewhere again. I pleaded saying it would look bad on my resume and I wanted to stay in the org for a while longer. He spoke to some different team, and asked me to work in the front end team, where I would be mainly working in PHP under a new manager. I had no background of JS or JQuery at this point. I just caught hold of the code base, deployed it locally and played around. With time, I did some feature building too. I was always the bare minimum guy. The new manager would assign me some task and I would meet the deadline or overshoot it by a bit more often than not. But, I always got the job done. My manager was Non-technical. He wasn't my mentor in anyway. With time I started working on NextJS and ReactJS too. I should mention that even now, I hadn't build a project from scratch and just did some feature building here and there. More importantly, I had very less knowledge of CSS. There were other people who just did CSS and I just had to deal with the flow and logic and integration. That kept me afloat and my manager was happy with that. 

I stuck around in that job for more than half a decade until layoffs happened and I was let go. I realised that I had not made myself indispensible to the company. Other people with almost double my salary were retained rightfully. They added more value, I won't dispute that. Anyway, I got laid off and shit hit the fan!!

I started giving interviews and very quickly realised how hollow my knowledge of front end actually was. I didn't know anything about CSS, about prototypes, I had always worked on mobX with class based components. So, I had no idea about redux or any UI libraries and very less knowledge of hooks. I didn't even know basic things like debounce and throttle. Even concepts like virtualisation were not very good. My PSDS was always strong so brushing up on that was easy. Alongside that, I started learning online, Udemy, Codecademy and started watching YT videos of Roadside Coder. 

I just prepared for the interviews as much as I could and within a few months, I was able to crack half a dozen rounds for an SDE-3 role in a very big organisation. The machine coding round was a challenge. But, I managed to finish a 3 hr task in 4.5hr. In the JS round, I was asked mostly topics that I knew about. And I managed to prepare for the design round by almost memorising the designs of products like Youtube, Netflix, Uber, Amazon and Spotify. I scraped though that round too and got in the new company. Yay! Not quite though.

Here I feel woefully out of place. I am in a team of 20 and I am senior to 16 and junior to only 1. Most of them have so much more knowledge than me. So much more knowledge of the DOM, the browser, service workers, hooks, callable refs, css, webpack. They don't use any externall libraries here. Write everything on their own. There's a severe gap in my knowledge. I pick up things quickly. I have become quite proficient in things that I knew nothing about in a very quick time. But, there's so much more to learn. I just worked on infinite scroll and intersection observer for the first time. There is so much I don't know. My manager looks at me to take the lead in solutioning, product discussions. My juniors look up to me to provide critical feedback of their work and help in solutioning. But, I know so less that I am scared to open my mouth. I am feeling like an inefficient fraud in this organisation. And my manager here expects more from me. I don't wanna get laid off again. I need to learn everything and that too become very good at them in a very quick time. I am a little flustered and tbh a little lost to be honest. Desperately looking for some guidance.