This order shall dispose of application U/o 7

rule 11 CPC dated 5.9.08 for dismissal of the present

petition as well as application U/o 14 rule 5 CPC dated

5.9.08 for framing of additional issue regarding

maintainability of the present petition, moved by

respondent no. 3. I have already heard Ld counsels for the parties.

I have also carefully perused the material available on -: 2 :- G.No. 218/06

record including the authorities cited at the bar. Brief facts relevant for deciding the said two

applications are that petitioner is natural mother of the

girl child namely Ms. Sanya whereas respondent no. 1 is

the natural father of the said child and respondents no. 2

and 3 are brother in law and sister in law of the

petitioner. The child in question was born on 1.10.05 out

of the wedlock of petitioner and respondent no. 1. It is

stated that one female child namely Kumari Purnima was

born out of the wedlock of respondents no. 2 and 3. It is

alleged that respondent no. 1 was jobless and

represented the petitioner that they should obtain divorce

on papers in India as they will not be able to get visa for

going to Belgium as married and after reaching Belgium,

they would continue to live as husband and wife. The

petitioner believing the words of respondents and without

understanding the bad intention of the respondents,

agreed to such proposal and obtained divorce by way of -: 3 :- G.No. 218/06 mutual consent on 28.3.06 despite the fact that she was

not ready and willing to give divorce to respondent no. 1.

Respondents no. 2 and 3 also represented the petitioner

that their daughter i.e the child in question will still not

get visa and made her to execute adoption deed of the

child Ms. Sanya in their favour and got the same

registered on 28.4.06. She had also claimed that the

statements given by her before Matrimonial Court were

not voluntarily and the child continued to be with her

even after execution of the Adoption Deed. She has

further claimed that the respondents had taken away the

custody of child on 04.05.2006 on the pretext of

producing her before High Commission of Belgium.

Thereafter, the petitioner was thrown out of matrimonial

house and then came to know about the fraud played by

the respondents. The petitioner has also challenged the

said adoption deed in the present petition by seeking a

decree for declaring the said adoption deed dated 28.4.06 -: 4 :- G.No. 218/06 as null and void ab-initio besides decree of permanent

injunction for restraining the respondents from removing

the child in question from territorial jurisdiction of this

Court. She has also claimed decree in the form of

direction to the respondent no. 1 for handing over the

custody of girl child to her. The grounds of challenge of

said adoption deed as mentioned in the petition, are not

relevant for the purpose of deciding the applications

under consideration and therefore,are not being

discussed herein. The respondent no. 1 in his written statement

has taken the stand that petitioner had agreed not to

institute any suit or proceeding against him as well as

against his relatives in any Court with respect to divorce

proceedings etc. The child is not in his custody and he

has been unnecessarily impleaded as a party in the

present petition. He has further claimed that the

petitioner is well educated lady with criminal record as -: 5 :- G.No. 218/06 FIR no. 89/2005 under Section 419 / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC

with PS IGI Airport for travelling on forged passport, is

pending against her. He has denied that the divorce was

obtained on false representation for the purpose of

arranging VISA. He has also denied the other allegations

made in the petition including the allegation that he was

jobless or made any misrepresentation to the petitioner.

According to said respondent, the custody of the child

was given to the petitioner by him in decree of divorce by

mutual consent. Thereafter, the petitioner threw the child

in front of the respondent and declined to maintain her

and also told that she would sell the child to the

foreigners on which she was suggested by respondents

no. 2 and 3 to give the child in adoption to them.

Petitioner accepted the proposal and executed the

adoption deed on 28.04.2006. Respondents no. 2 and 3, in their joint written

statement, took preliminary objection that present -: 6 :- G.No. 218/06 petition is not maintainable as the petitioner is not the

guardian of the child either within the meaning of G&W

Act or under Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act .

They have also claimed that the petitioner was not

interested in the nourishment of the child and had

abandoned the child. They have also levelled certain

allegations regarding the conduct of the petitioner and

her previous background. According to them, petitioner

left the baby with them after divorce from respondent no.

1 and also threatened to sell the child to foreigners or to

send the child to some orphanage. The respondents

therefore sought that petitioner should execute the

adoption deed which she willingly did on 28.04.2006. It

is also claimed that the petitioner is bent upon to harass

them in order to extort money. They have denied that the

petitioner live in matrimonial home till 04.05.2006. The

petitioner was always fond of the company of her

sister and their relatives after marriage and there were -: 7 :- G.No. 218/06 temperamental differences between the petitioner and

respondent no. 1 due to which they had agreed to file

divorce by mutual consent. They have also claimed that

the petitioner had willfully neglected and relinquished all

her maternal right and was never a responsible mother. In the application under Order 7 rule 11 CPC ,

respondent no. 3 has claimed that the child in question

was given in adoption by petitioner and petitioner is

challenging the validity of the said adoption by way of

present petition which this Court has no jurisdiction to

do and therefore, the petition should be dismissed. Ld. Counsel for respondent no. 3 had argued

that this Court cannot decide the issue of validity of

adoption deed as same is within the exclusive domain of

Civil Court. Ld. Counsel had argued that in case prayer

clause (c) regarding cancellation of adoption deed is not

granted by the Court then the prayer clause (a) regarding

grant of custody of the child can also not be granted to -: 8 :- G.No. 218/06 the petitioner. Ld. Counsel had also submitted that the

petitioner is not the guardian of the child within the

meaning of provisions of G&W Act as well as Hindu

Minority and Guardianship Act and therefore, she cannot

seek the custody of child unless and until the adoption

deed is declared as null and void by competent Court of

law. Another bone of contention raised by Ld. Counsel

was that petitioner is not alleging the adoption deed to be

a forged document and is admitting to have executed the

said deed on 28.04.2006 and therefore, this Court has

got no jurisdiction to declare such adoption deed as null

& void as Guardianship Judge. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for petitioner

had referred to the preamble of G&W Act as well as to the

provisions contained in Section 7 , 39 and 41 of the said

Act in support of her submission that the entire

provisions of the Act are to be read as a whole and the

provisions contained in G&W Act are exhaustive enough -: 9 :- G.No. 218/06 to enable this Court for declaring such adoption deed as

null & void. Next limb of argument of Counsel for

petitioner was that relief of custody of child is the main

relief whereas the relief for declaring the adoption deed as

null & void, is consequential relief arising out of the main

relief itself. Ld. Counsel had also submitted that said

adoption deed is in violation of Section 11 (ii) of Hindu

Adoption and Maintenance Act. In support of her

submissions, Ld. Counsel has relied upon the following

authorities :- The term "guardian" has been defined in Section

4 (2) of G&W Act which reads as under :- Section 7 (1) of G&W Act confers power on Court

for appointing guardian of a person or property or both in

respect of a minor or for declaring any person to be such

guardian of the minor. Section 7 (2) of the said Act

clearly provides that any order passed in the foregoing

sub Sections shall imply removal of any guardian who

has not been appointed by Will or other instrument or

appointed or declared by the Court. In other words, the -: 11 :- G.No. 218/06 order either appointing guardian of minor or declaring

any person to be guardian of such minor, can be at the

instance of those persons who are seeking removal of

guardian not appointed by Will or other instrument. The

term "other instrument" also includes adoption deed. Section 25 of the said Act provides that whenever

any minor leaves or is removed from the custody of

his/her guardian then the Court after satisfying itself

that it shall be for the welfare of such minor to return his

/ her custody to the said guardian, may pass appropriate

order for his return. Section 39 of the said Act speaks of

certain situations where the Court may either on the

application of interested party or on its own, remove the

guardian appointed or declared by the Court or the

guardian appointed by Will or other instrument. Section 4 (b) of Hindu Minority and

Guardianship Act also defines the term "guardian" and

reads as under :- Section 12 of the said Act, in clear and express

terms, provides that an adopted child shall be deemed to

be the child of his / her adoptive father or mother for all

purposes with effect from the date of the adoption and

from such date all the ties of the child in the family of his

/ her birth shall be deemed severed and replaced by

those creative by the adoption in the adopting family. Section 16 of the said Act further provides that

whenever any registered document purporting to record

an adoption is produced before the Court, the Court shall

presume that the adoption has been made in compliance

with the provisions of said Act unless and until it is -: 14 :- G.No. 218/06 disproved. Having judged the facts and circumstances of the

present case in the light of aforementioned provisions of

said three different statutes, the Court is of the view that

unless and until the adoption deed dated 28.04.2006 by

which the child in question namely Sanya

was given to respondents no. 2 and 3, is declared null &

void, respondents no. 2 and 3 shall be deemed to be the

lawful guardian of the said child. The present petition

has been filed by petitioner under Section 25 of G&W Act

as well for declaration of said adoption deed as null and

voild with consequential relief of injunction for

restraining the respondents from removing the said child

from the jurisdiction of this Court. As already discussed

above, Section 25 of G&W Act shall come into operation

only in case of removal of the child from the custody of

the guardian. The Court does not find any merit in the

submission of Ld. Counsel for petitioner that execution of -: 15 :- G.No. 218/06 adoption deed necessarily results in the removal of child

in question from the custody of petitioner. The removal

of child from the custody of guardian means the removal

of child from the custody of lawful guardian and it cannot

be stretched to include within its sweep such type of

instance where petitioner who has approached the Court,

executed adoption deed in respect of child and still

claiming such child to have been removed from her

custody because the custody of such child cannot be said

to have been removed by any illegal or unlawful means or

even forcefully. For this very reason, the argument of

Counsel for petitioner that relief of declaration of

adoption deed as null & void is subsidiary or ancillary

relief to the main relief of custody of child, does not hold

any ground. Unless and until the adoption deed in

question is declared as null and void, the petitioner

cannot be granted relief of custody of child in question.

The Court also does not find any force in the submission -: 16 :- G.No. 218/06 made on behalf of petitioner that the provisions of G&W

Act are exhaustive enough to empower this Court for

declaring such adoption deed as null & void. The

legislature has enacted the Hindu Adoption and

Maintenance Act 1956 with a great purpose and object.

The said Act is a complete code in itself and contains all

the necessary provisions as well as remedies concerning

adoption of any minor governed by the said Act. That

being so, the argument that this Court can declare

adoption deed as null & void seems to be totally

misplaced. Admittedly, the power to declare any such

adoption deed as null & void lies within the exclusive

domain of Civil Court, this Court while acting as

Guardianship Judge, cannot exercise such power of Civil

Court and declare the adoption deed in question as null

& void. In the entire petition, the petitioner has not

averred at all that the present case is covered by any

of the clauses (a) to (j) of Section 39 of G&W Act. The -: 17 :- G.No. 218/06 authorities relied upon by Ld. Counsel for petitioner are

clearly distinguishable from the facts and circumstances

of the present case. They do not support the case of

petitioner. The authority mentioned at Sr. no. 1 above is

in respect of provisions of Income Tax Act and has been

held that the provisions of the said Act are exhaustive of

the matters dealt with therein. The said authority rather

goes to show that the relief of declaration of adoption

deed as null & void, can be granted by the Court within

the scope and ambit of Hindu Adoption and Maintenance

Act which is also a complete code in itself and not by this

Court while acting within the scope and ambit of Guardians and Wards Act or Hindu Minority and

Guardianship Act . In authority mentioned at Sr. no. 2, 3

above, it has been held that whenever substantive power

is conferred upon a Court or Tribunal, all incidental and

ancillary powers for effective exercise of substantive

power have to be conferred. The authorities mentioned at -: 18 :- G.No. 218/06 Sr. no. 4 to 7 above, are altogether on different facts and

have been rendered in entirely different facts and

circumstances of those matters. In the light of aforesaid discussion, this Court is

of the view that the present petition merits rejection and

this Court has got no power to declare the adoption deed

dated 28.04.2006 as null & void. Consequently, the

application under consideration is hereby allowed. In view of the fact that application U/o 7 rule 11 CPC has been allowed, the other application U/o 14 rule

5 CPC of respondent no. 3 has become meaningless and

is disposed of accordingly. The petition is rejected U/o 7

rule 11 CPC . Interim order, if any, stands vacated. Decree

sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to

Record Room. Present:- Proxy Counsel for petitioner. None for respondents. Vide separate order of the even date, the
application U/o 7 rule 11 CPC of respondent no. 3 has
been allowed and the petition has been rejected. Interim
order, if any, stands vacated. Decree sheet be prepared
accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room. (Vidya Prakash)
 GJ/Delhi