CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SANJAY KUMAR DWIVEDI
For the Petitioner :Mr. R.S. Mazumdar, Senior Advocate
 Mr. Nishant Kumar Roy, Advocate
For the ACB : Mr. Sumeet Gadodia, Advocate
 : Mr. Ritesh Kumar Gupta, Advocate
 : Ms. Shruti Shekhar, Advocate
 Mr. Nillohit Choubey, Advocate

 04/ 06.01.2026: Heard Mr. R.S. Mazumdar, learned senior counsel for the

petitioner and Mr. Sumeet Gadodia, learned counsel for the A.C.B. 2. The petitioner has been made an accused in connection with

Hazaribagh A.C.B. P.S. Case No. 09 of 2025 registered under sections 409 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 420 , 120B of the Indian Penal Code and under section 13(2) and 13(1) (c) & (d) of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 1988 ,

pending in the Court of learned Additional District Judge-II-cum-Special

Judge, Vigilance (ACB), Hazaribagh and by way of this petition the petitioner

is seeking regular bail. 3. Mr. R.S. Mazumdar, learned senior counsel for the petitioner

submits that petitioner is innocent and he has committed no offence as

alleged in the F.I.R. He further submits that the petitioner has been falsely

implicated in this case. He next submits that petitioner was not named as

an accused in the F.I.R. but subsequently he has been made accused in the

instant case and he has been taken into custody by the prosecuting agency.

He next submits that the petitioner has been made an accused in the instant

case only on account of the fact that the petitioner was the then Deputy 1 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

Commissioner, Hazaribag and petitioner had joined the office as Deputy

Commissioner, Hazaribagh on 26.05.2008 and he remained there till

05.10.2010. He next submits that the present case is outcome of

preliminary enquiry being 24 of 2015 which was conducted by A.C.B on the

complaint made by one Tripurari Singh 10 years ago who happens to be a

journalist and the said enquiry was conducted with respect to the orders

which were not passed by the petitioner and even the said orders were

passed 17 years back when the petitioner was posted as Deputy

Commissioner, Hazaribagh. He then submits that any order with respect to

land relating to the khas mahal land are being passed under the Khas Mahal

Estate Manual and on the directions of the Government. He further submits

that only on the approval of the State Government said land has been

transferred. He next submits that lessee has made an application for renewal

of the lease which was registered as Lease Renewal Case No. 85/2007-08

and they have also made a prayer with respect to removing the word

"Sevayat" and petitioner being the Deputy Commissioner has passed an order

to delete the word "Sevayat" from Register-II and further recommended for

renewal of the lease to the State Government through Divisional

Commissioner. He further submits that this allegation is false in the F.I.R

against the petitioner and petitioner has not passed any order to remove the

word 'sevayat' and only forwarded the proposal put up by the Additional

Collector in lease renewal case record no. 85/2007-08 to Divisional

Commissioner for the State Government to take a decision in the matter and

further action was taken after the approval of the State Government was

obtained vide Memo No. 1502 dated 18.06.2009 thereafter the land in

question has been transferred. He then submits that the petitioner has only 2 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

forwarded the same and noting of the other officers have been placed

before the petitioner and in view of that the petitioner has been falsely

implicated in the instant case. He next submits that allegation of not taking

care of the order dated 26.07.2005 passed in C.W.J.C. No. 4200 of 2000 of

the High Court is not against the petitioner. He submits that the petitioner

has not passed any order and only the Government has passed the order of

transfer of land in question. He next submits that the said order is of the

year, 2005 whereas the petitioner has joined in the year, 2008 and the

period of the said order the petitioner was not posted at Hazaribagh and it

was not within the knowledge of the petitioner. On these grounds, he

submits that the petitioner may kindly be granted regular bail. He next

submits that the petitioner is in custody since 13.08.2025. He further submits

that in para 41 to 43 of the counter affidavit, the Anti Corruption Bureau

has stated about the other criminal cases lodged against the petitioner. He

further submits that the word "approval for transfer of the land by the

petitioner has been mentioned in the para 26 of the counter-affidavit, is not

correct. On these grounds, he submits that the petitioner may kindly be

granted regular bail. 4. Per contra, Mr. Sumeet Gadodia, learned counsel for the Anti

Corruption Bureau vehemently opposes the prayer for grant of regular bail of

the petitioner. He draws the attention of the Court to Annexure-D of the

counter-affidavit which is order passed by the Commissioner, North

Chhotanagpur, Division, Hazaribagh and submits that the lease was

renewed in favour of deity Sri Sri Mahavir Ji from 01.04.1978 to 31.03.2008.

He submits that by way of Annexure-E renewal was granted in favour of

individual "sevayat" in place of deity Sri Sri Mahavir Ji ignoring all earlier 3 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

records of the case. He further submits that by order dated 08.12.2008 the

approval was granted for substitution of the name of the Sevayat by the

approval of the petitioner. He next submits that in the light of order dated

08.12.2008, the petitioner has recommended the renewal in favour of the

four 'sevayat' and forwarded the same for recommendation to the

Government. He further submits that the petitioner has approved the

renewal of lease to the power of attorney holder namely, Vijay Pratap Singh

and Sudhir Kumar Singh. He next submits that transfer case has been

initiated being Transfer Case No. 01/2009-10 contained in Annexure-F which

was instituted by Smt.Basanti Kumari Sethi and others. He then submits that

by order dated 04.09.2009 the petitioner has recommended for approval of

the transfer of the land to the Government in respect of 23 persons. He

next submits that the petitioner is deeply involved in transaction of Khas

Mahal land. He further submits that Investigating Officer has also examined

the witness and two persons out of 23 persons in whose favour subsequent

transfer of khas mahal land has taken place, have given the specific

statement that through the power of attorney holders, namely, Vijay Pratap

Singh and Sudhir Pratap Singh, the aforesaid persons met the petitioner, who

was the then Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribagh and the petitioner has

personally assured them that lease can easily be transferred in their names

and accordingly, the said persons have stated that they had agreed to get

the land transferred in their names. He draws the attention of the Court to

para 86 of case diary and submits that this fact has been stated by three of

the purchasers namely, Manish Narayan, Smt. Priti Prasad and Nand Rani

Sinha. He further submits that in course of investigation it has been revealed

that that approximately 5000 acres of land in the district of Hazaribagh have 4 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

been illegally transacted and the said lands in fact were belonging to and/or

Forest land, Gair Majaruwa Aam, Sarkari Khas Mahal, Kesher-e-hind,

Lakheraj, Trust lands etc. He then submits that entire land scams were done

during the tenure of the petitioner, the then Deputy Commissioner,

Hazaribagh. He further submits that there is huge possibility of surfacing of

transaction of huge amount of illicit money being involved and that fact has

come in para 104-107 of the case diary. He next submits that the petitioner

being a senior IAS officer and custodian of government land records,

exercised enormous administrative control and authority over subordinate

officials of the district administration, revenue and registration departments.

He then submits that ACB has very genuine apprehension that if the

petitioner be granted regular bail he will influence the witnesses and tamper

with the documentary evidence and to buttress this argument he draws the

attention of the Court to supplementary affidavit filed by the petitioner

particularly annexure-1 series and submits that even the orders which were

in custody of the ACB have been annexed and that orders are not certified

copy of the said orders. He next submits that petitioner being in custody, he

has been able to procure those documents and annexed the same with the

supplementary affidavit which cannot be ruled out that petitioner will not

tamper with the documentary evidences. He next submits that the petitioner

is also involved in another three cases relating to land scam and

disproportionate assets etc. 5. Mr. Gadodia further draws the attention of the Court to para 54 of

the Case Diary and submits that Rupees 3.16 crores in cash has been

deposited in the account of Brahmastra Education Private Limited of which

Swapna Sanchita who is wife of the petitioner and her brother namely, 5 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

Shipij Trivedi (brother-in-law of Vinay Kumar Choubey) are the directors. On

these grounds, he submits that regular bail of the petitioner may kindly be

rejected. 6. In view of above submissions of the learned counsel for the

petitioner and learned counsel for the Anti Corruption Bureau, the Court has

gone through the documents brought on record by way of annexing with

this bail application as well as with the counter affidavit and in course of

argument, case diary was also produced before the Court. 7. The land in question is khas mahal land which settled in favour

of Ganpat Rai Sarawgi and the said Ganpat Rai Sarawgi as settled the same

in the name of deity Sri Sri Mahavir Ji. The said settlement was sought to be

cancelled by the deed of cancellation dated 29.10.1951 which has been

rejected later on by the competent authority i.e Commissioner, North

Chhotanagpur Division, Hazaribagh. Thereafter, again the renewal application

was filed by Sevayat Pannalal Sethi and again it was renewed in favour of

deity upto 31.03.2008. Thereafter ancestors-in-interest Sevayats have filed

another renewal application being Renewal Case No. 85/2007-08 and

thereafter, it has been renewed in favour of four Sevayats. The four

sevayats have given the power of attorney to Vijay Pratap Singh and Sudhir

Kumar Singh and through this power of attorney holder all the land was

transferred to 23 persons. Various documents annexed with the petition

which has been noted in the argument of the learned counsel for the Anti

Corruption clearly suggests that the petitioner was instrumental in moving

the file and recommending to the Government for approval of transfer. 8. The statement of the purchasers under section 180 of BNSS has

been produced before the Court which is part of the case diary wherein 6 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

Manish Narayan, Smt. Priti Prasad and Smt. Nandrani Sinha have stated that

Vijay Pratap Singh and Sudhir Kumar Singh have sold the land to twenty

three persons and the purchasers were not having the knowledge of fraud

being done by the power of attorney holder. They have stated that both

power of attorney holders have stated that they are having the high

connection with the higher officials and they will facilitate everything. They

have also stated that Vijay Pratap Singh and Sudhir Kumar Singh used to

visit the office of the Deputy Commissioner when the petitioner was posted

as Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribagh. 9. Thus, there are sufficient materials against the petitioner to

suggest that the petitioner was involved in all these transactions through

different persons. 10. An IAS officer serves as the District Collector District Magistrate

(DM)/Deputy Commissioner and acts as the government representative for

the district. The officer will coordinate all services and direct the district's

administration. The District Magistrate/ Deputy Commissioner do focus on the

field and his role includes three major, related functions. First, the officer

serves as the Revenue Head of the district, in charge of all records of land,

revenue, and taxes within the district, including land acquisition. The second function is of the DM/ Deputy Commissioner to act as

the Executive Magistrate, serving as a direct partner with the police

department in Law & Order and maintaining public peace. Finally, the DM/ Deputy Commissioner serves as the district's

Development Leader, organizing all government welfare and infrastructure

projects related to roads, hospitals, and schools to effectively advance 7 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

development for all citizens. 11. The petitioner was heading the post of Deputy Commissioner

at the relevant time and all these transactions have taken place. At this

stage it can be noted that interpreting the provisions of bail contained under sections 438 & 439 of the Cr.P.C., the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its various

judgments has laid down various considerations for grant or refusal of bail to

an accused in a non-bailable offence like, (i) Whether there is any prima facie

or reasonable ground to believe that the accused had committed the offence; (ii) Nature of accusation and evidence therefor, (iii) Gravity of the offence and

punishment which the conviction will entail, (iv) Reasonable possibility of

securing presence of the accused at trial and danger of his absconding or

fleeing if released on bail, (v) Character and behavior of the accused, (vi)

Means, position and standing of the accused in the Society, (vii) Likelihood of

the offence being repeated, (viii) Reasonable apprehension of the witnesses

being tampered with, (ix) Danger, of course, of justice being thwarted by

grant of bail, (x) Balance between the rights of the accused and the larger

interest of the Society/State, (xi) Any other factor relevant and peculiar to

the accused. (xii) While a vague allegation that the accused may tamper with

the evidence or witnesses may not be a ground to refuse bail, but if the

accused is of such character that his mere presence at large would intimidate

the witnesses or if there is material to show that he will use his liberty to

subvert justice or tamper with the evidence, then bail will be refused. 12. Furthermore, in the landmark judgment of Gurucharan Singh

and others v. State , reported in (1978) 1 SCC 118, it was held that

there is no hard and fast rule and no inflexible principle governing the

exercise of such discretion by the courts. It was further held that there 8 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

cannot be any inexorable formula in the matter of granting ball. In the facts

and circumstances of each case will govern the exercise of judicial discretion

in granting or refusing bail. It was further held that such question depends

upon a variety of circumstances, cumulative effect of which must enter into

the judicial verdict. Such judgment itself mentioned the nature and

seriousness of nature, and circumstances in which offences are committed

apart from character of evidence as some of the relevant factors in deciding

whether to grant bail or not. 13. In the case of Mallampati Gandhi S/O. Naga Raju vs The

State of Telangana, reported in 2018 SCC Online HYd. 42, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held that, "Bail law on economic and white collar offences is

well delineated-and-no-more-res integra. Echoing the concern for economic

offences, which are more dangerous and having far reaching impact on

society than bodily offences, Honble Apex Court and several High Courts

have held that in dealing with such bail applications, Courts are required to

analyze and evaluate certain relevant factors cautiously." 14. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Nimmagadda Prasad

vs. Central Bureau of Investigation , reported in (2013) 7 SCC 466),

has held as under; 15. Further looking into para 54 of the Case Diary it transpires that

Rupees 3.16 crores in cash has been deposited in the account of Brahmastra

Education Private Limited of which Swapna Sanchita who is wife of the

petitioner and her brother Shipij Trivedi (brother-in-law of Vinay Kumar

Choubey) are the directors. 16. So far the argument of the learned senior counsel for the petitioner

with regard to ignoring the order of the High Court passed in C.W.J.C No.

4200 of 2000 is concerned, that cannot be accepted in view of the fact that

the petitioner being head of the administration particularly of revenue

record was not able to see the order of the High Court, the said submission

appears to be misconceived. 17. In the light of above discussions noted hereinabove and coming to

the facts of the present case it transpires that the petitioner while working

as Deputy Commissioner and has done various irregularities by allotting

various government lands to the interested persons. The petitioner has

shown undue favour to the persons in whose favour the land was

transferred. The petitioner has abused the power of his post and position. 18. The supplementary affidavit has been filed by the petitioner

wherein annexure-1 series are the orders passed relating to the said

transfer. The said orders are not certified copy. The petitioner is in custody

and inspite of that those orders have been annexed with the supplementary 10 ( 2026:JHHC:99 )

 affidavit which clearly suggests that petitioner can tamper with the evidence

 and this fact itself fortifies the apprehension of the Anti Corruption Bureau

 that petitioner can tamper with the evidence being senior IAS officer of the

 State of Jharkhand. 19. Thus, considering the overall materials on record and the role

 attributed to this petitioner, the gravity and seriousness of the offence

 committed by the petitioner as he is sitting over the highest post of the

 Government, he can tamper with the evidence if he is granted regular bail.

 Further in course of argument it has been pointed out by the learned

 counsel for the Anti Corruption Bureau that Sevayats are not cooperating in

 the investigation being done by the ACB and investigating against Sevayats is

 pending. 20. It has been noticed that in recent times there was increase in

 socio-economic offences in the country. These are the offences which are

 solely committed for personal gains. These crimes are affecting every part of

 the country's economic structure and wrecking the people's faith in the

 system. 21. In the following circumstances, if the person is very influential

 and there is every chance to mislead the case, in such cases bail should not

 be granted. 22. In view of what has been discussed hereinabove, the present

 bail application fails and is hereby rejected at this stage. Pending I.A, if any,

 stands dismissed.