Writ Petition:- Facts of the Case: 8.	Learned Standing Counsel representing the State was directed to communicate the aforesaid order to the Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary, Revenue, as also, to the Chief Secretary of the Uttar Pradesh. 9.	After the said order was passed by this Court, a letter dated 25.3.2021 was issued by the Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary, Revenue to the District Magistrate, Hardoi with direction to send some senior officers along with record to brief her regarding the issue in question. On 26.3.2021, Sub-Divisional Magistrate and the Naib Tehsildar came along with record in respect of the land in question to brief the Principal Secretary, Revenue, Government of Uttar Pradesh. The Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary, Revenue, prima facie, found irregularity in the whole process and, therefore, vide order dated 26.3.2021 directed the District Magistrate, Hardoi to inquire into the matter in detail and take further action against the officials/employees concerned and to intimate the same to the State Government. 10.	In compliance of the directions issued by the Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary, Revenue vide order dated 26.3.2021, the District Magistrate, Hardoi constituted a three members committee comprising of Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sadar, Hardoi, Settlement Officer, Consolidation and the City Magistrate, Hardoi to inquire into the matter vide order dated 30.3.2021. The three members committee submitted its detailed report dated 1.6.2021 to the District Magistrate, Hardoi. The inquiry report has been placed on record with the affidavit of the Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary, Revenue. The committee in its detailed report, said that the land in question was recorded in revenue record of 1333 Fasli (Year 1926) as ''Jangal Dhak' of Class-5(iii)(b)(2) land. In 1356 Fasli (Year 1949) also the said land was recorded as ''Jangal Dhak'. The said land is vested in the Gram Sabha as per Para A-124 of the U.P. Land Records Manual, and it is a public utility land. 11.	The three members committee also said that the resumption order dated 30.1.1987 passed by the then District Magistrate was against the law. It was further said that transfer of the land by Mr. Sanjeev Agarwal, Managing Trustee of the Trust in favour of his two sons and a close relative for setting up commercial venture, was bad in law. The committee also noted the forging of the documents by the revenue authorities and misplacing the original file of the resumption and allotment of land by the then District Magistrate vide order dated 30.1.1987. The committee recommended for taking action and lodging of FIR against the erring officials. 12.	The District Magistrate, Hardoi after considering the said report of the three members committee, vide a detailed order dated 4.6.2021 cancelled the resumption and allotment order dated 30.1.1987 passed by then District Magistrate, Harodi holding same to be void ab initio and directed the said land to be recorded as Gram Sabha land. FIR No.0305 of 2021 under Section 409 IPC has been registered for going missing of the original file of the resumption and allotment order dated 30.1.1987 from the office of the District Magistrate. 13. 	The District Magistrate also noted in his order that after death of Radhey Shyam Agarwal, retired IAS officer, vide order dated 23.10.1999 passed under Section 34 of the U.P. Land Revenue Act, 1901, name of Rajeev Agarwal S/o Radhey Shyam Agarwal was substituted in place of Radhey Shyam Agarwal in the revenue records. However, there was no order of substitution of name of Sanjeev Agarwal in place of Sri Rajeev Agrawal. It has been further said that the transfer of land to private persons, is against the provisions of the Sections 51 , 52 and 53 of the Indian Trust Act, 1882 and in violation of Section 117(6) of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act. Thus, it has been said that the order dated 30.1.1987 was void ab initio and, therefore, the same is liable to be cancelled. Tehsildar, Sadar has been directed to take action under Section 67 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 for eviction of the persons illegally occupying the land in question. 14.	Sanjeev Agarwal, opposite party no.5 filed Writ Petition bearing No.12066 (MB) of 2021 before this Court on 14.6.2021 challenging the order dated 4.6.2021 passed by the District Magistrate, Hardoi. However, the said writ petition was dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to file a fresh petition on 16.6.2021. On 15.6.2021, opposite party no.5 filed a revision bearing No.1146 of 2021 before the Board of Revenue, Prayagraj impugning the order dated 4.6.2021 passed by the District Magistrate, Hardoi. Thereafter, second Writ petition bearing no.12641 (MS) of 2021 was filed before this Court impugning the order dated 4.6.2021 passed by the District Magistrate, Hardoi. This Court vide order dated 23.6.2021 directed the said writ petition to be listed along with the present writ petition. The said writ petition was, however, withdrawn by opposite party no.5 on 20.7.2021. 15.	During the pendency of this writ petition, another revision bearing No.1351 of 2021 came to be filed by Ram Chandra Razwar, the Manager of the Concept Carts Limited under Section 210 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 impugning the order dated 4.6.2021 passed by the District Magistrate, Hardoi. Interestingly, while the writ petition was pending on the subject matter and the High Court was in seisen of the subject matter, the Board of Revenue proceeded to decide the said revision and passed the order dated 2.8.2021. Two very interesting aspects of the order dated 2.8.2021 are to be taken note of. The Board of Revenue in paragraph eight of the said order held that the preliminary objection raised by the counsel for the complainant and the Standing Counsel for the revenue regarding maintainability of the revision on behalf of the Concept Cars Limited or its Manager had force. It was said that the Manager of the Concept Cars Limited and the Concept Cars Limited itself had no right file and maintain the revision challenging the validity of the order dated 4.6.2021 passed by the District Magistrate, Hardoi and, therefore, the Board of Revenue accepted the preliminary objection raised regarding the maintainability of the revision. It was observed that if the revisionist was so advised, he could become the party in the revision filed on behalf of the Trust impugning the order dated 4.6.2021, but the revision on behalf of the Manager of the Concept Cars Limited/Concept Cars Limited would not be maintainable. Despite the said finding on the preliminary objection, the Board of Revenue held that the prayer of the revisionist i.e. Manager of the Concept Cars Limited regarding exchange of the land in question with some other land being offered on behalf of the revisionist/Concept Cars Limited in exercise of powers under Section 161 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act and under Section 101 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 would be required to be considered. 16. 	This Court is of the considered view that the Board of Revenue has incorrectly held that the land in Gata No.1175 was not recorded as ''public utility land' though the same was recorded as ''Jangal Dhak' and was a public utility land as per the provisions of Para A-124 of the U.P. Land Records Manual. The Board of Revenue held that since the said land was not a public utility land, therefore, the said land could be exchanged with some other land of equal value and there would not be any legal hurdle in doing so. The Board of Revenue thus, directed the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sadar, Hardoi to make inspection of the lands, which are being offered by the revisionist/Concept Cars Limited in exchange of the land in Gata No.1175, and take possession of the land offered by the revisionist in exchange of the land in Gata No.1175 of the area, which would be 10% more than the area of Gata No.1175. It has been further held that the said order of exchange would be subject to the final outcome of Revision No.1146 of 2021 filed by the Trust. It has been ordered that that the revisionist would file an affidavit before the Sub-Divisional Magistrate and will undertake that in case the order dated 4.6.2021 is affirmed, the revisionist should not claim any right in respect of the land being offered in exchange of the land in Gata No.1175, and in future if it was found that the land offered in exchange of land in Gata No.1175 had any defect of ownership, then the revisionist would be liable to compensate for the loss, if any. It has been ordered that the revisionist would file the undertaking along with application within a period of two weeks before the Sub-Divisional Magistrate and the Sub-Divisional Magistrate has been directed to make inspection of the land in Gata Nos.1143, 1167 Cha and 846, which are being offered in exchange and then out of the three gatas, the most valuable land should be accepted in exchange. After taking possession of the said land, the possession should be handed over to the Gram Sabha. It has been further directed that all this should be completed within a period of six weeks. It has been ordered that for a period of two months or from the date of taking possession of the land offered in exchange of Gata No.1175, status-quo in respect of the possession of Gata No.1175 shall be maintained. 17.	Thus, on one hand the Board of Revenue held that the revision on behalf of the Manager of Concept Cars Limited or by the Concept Cars Limited itself was not maintainable, and on the other hand, it allowed the prayer of the revisionist/Manager of the Concept Cars Limited for exchange of the land. This Court finds the approach of the Board of Revenue wholly illegal, unjustified and against the judicial propriety inasmuch as when the High Court was in seisen of the matter, the Board of Revenue had no business to proceed with the matter. Further, after holding that the revision was not maintainable, the Board of Revenue had allowed the prayer of the revisionist/Manager of the Concept Cars Limited in a most illegal and uncalled for manner. The Board of Revenue has overreached its jurisdiction and this Court deprecates the way the order has been passed to favour a private party in a non-maintainable proceeding. This Court holds that the order passed by the Board of Revenue dated 2.8.2021 is wholly illegal, non est and without jurisdiction. The authorities are directed not to take any action in pursuance of the order dated 2.8.2021 passed by the Board of Revenue. 18.	After Revision No.1146 of 2021 was filed by the Trust against the order darted 4.6.2021, the Trust filed a recall application before the District Magistrate, Hardoi praying to recall the order dated 4.6.2021. However, the District Magistrate vide order dated 31.1.2022 rejected the said application for recall on the ground that against the order dated 4.6.2021, a revision had already been filed by the Trust being Revision No.1146 of 2021 before the Board of Revenue and, therefore, the recall application was not maintainable. Against the said order dated 31.1.2022, the Trust has filed another Revision bearing No.511 of 2022 before the Board of Revenue and the Board of Revenue vide interim order dated 9.3.2022, admitted the said revision and strangely enough stayed the orders dated 4.6.2021 and 31.1.2022 passed by the District Magistrate, Hardoi. The Board of Revenue appears to be extra generous and benevolent towards the revisionist. The approach of the Board of Revenue is anything but judicial. 19.	Before the order dated 9.3.2022 came to be passed by the Board of Revenue, the Tehsildar, Sadar, Hardoi proceeded under Section 67 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 and ordered for eviction of Devendra Das S/o Mahant Indresh Charan Das, Principal, Sri Gururamrai Public School, Lucknow Road, Hardoi and imposed the compensation of Rs.5,65,76,000/- along with cost of Rs.11,300/- vide order dated 27.1.2022 passed in Case No.6112 of 2021. Another order of the same day i.e. 27.1.2022 was passed in Case No.6113 of 2021 for eviction of Sri Siya Ram S/o Chote Lal, who had constructed shops on Gata No.749/M land in Gata No.1175/0.126 hectares along with compensation of Rs.22,20,000/- and cost of Rs.11,000/-. Third order dated 27.1.2022 was passed in Case No.6114 of 2021 Gram Sabha Vs. Sanjeev Agarwal under Section 67 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 for eviction of opposite party no.5, Sanjeev Agarwal from 8248 Sq.M land along with compensation of Rs.35,04,60,000/- along with cost of Rs.12,800/-. 20.	It appears that appeal(s) was/were filed against the order(s) dated 27.1.2022 passed by the Tehsildar, Sadar, Hardoi before the District Magistrate, Hardoi. However, Transfer Application No.47 of 2022, under Section 212 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 was filed before the Board of Revenue on behalf of opposite party no.5 and the Board of Revenue vide order dated 22.3.2022, transferred the appeal(s) to the Court of District Magistrate, Sitapur from the court of District Magistrate, Hardoi. Questions: - 21.	The following questions are involved in the present writ petition:- 22.	Since the issues involved in this writ petition are complex issues of revenue laws, this Court requested Sri P.V. Chaudhary, learned Counsel of this Court to assist the Court as Amicus in disposal of the writ petition. Sri P.V. Chaudhary willingly agreed to assist the Court and the Court records its appreciation for his valuable assistance and labour put by him in short notice, in rendering his valuable assistance for deciding the issues involved in this petition. Submissions:- 23.	Sri P.V. Chadhary, learned Amicus has submitted that the land in question was recorded as ''Jangal Dhak' in Class 5(iii)(b)(2) in revenue records from 1333 Fasli (Year 1926) and 1352 Fasli (Year 1949). Para A-124 of the U.P. Land Records Manual provides class of tenures and the categories of land within each village in the khatauni. Class 5(iii)(b)(2) of Para A-124 is in respect of the forest and other trees shrubs, bushes etc. Two kinds of forests are mentioned i.e. (1) forest under the management of Forest Department (including erstwhile private forests made over to Forest Departments); and (2) forest vested in the Gram Sabha. Class 5(b)(2) will consist of Babool, Dhak, Sirhoar, Bankraunda etc. These lands are recorded as ''Jangal Dhak' and, therefore, the same are public utility lands. He has further submitted that under Section 132 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, the public utility lands are saved and no bhumidhari rights shall accrue in respect of the public utility land in favour of anyone. He has also submitted that the order dated 30.1.1987 passed by the then District Magistrate, Hardoi purportedly in exercise of power under Section 117(6) of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, whereby he resumed the said land for Gyan Yog Charitable Trust through its chairman, Radhey Shyam Agarwal, a retired IAS officer, was wholly illegal inasmuch as no bhimidhari right could have been created in favour of anyone in respect of the said land being public utility land. He has further submitted that the order was void ab initio and was result of arbitrary and mala fide exercise of the powers by the then District Magistrate, Hardoi to benefit his fellow brother of IAS community. 24.	Sri P.V. Chadhary, learned Amicus has further submitted that the object of the Trust was to run the trust for public purpose, and it is said that for the said object and purposes, it constructed a charitable hospital and school etc. Instead of carrying out its objects of public purpose, the Board of Trustees of the Trust in its meeting dated 9.10.2009 resolved that the land along with building should be sold and Sri Sanjeev Agarwal, the Managing Trustee was authorized for the said purpose. In furtherance of the resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Trust, Sri Sanjeev Agarwal, Managing Trustee, executed two sale deeds on 19.6.2010 and on 1.7.2010 in favour of his own sons, Yash Vardhan Agarwal and Surya Vardhan Agarwal and his close relative, Pradeep Kumar Agarwal, who are the Treasurer and Trustees of the Trust for meagre amounts of Rs.15,00,000/- and Rs.12,00,000/- respectively. Thereafter, this land was given on lease to their own company i.e. Concept Cars Limited, in which Sanjeev Agarwal, his two sons and Pradeep Kumar Agarwal are the Directors. After demolishing the hospital building, they have constructed commercial complex and a Maruti Car showroom is being run from the commercial complex to earn profit. 25. Sri P.V. Chadhary, learned Amicus has also submitted that the public utility land belonging to the Government/Gram Sabha was initially obtained in the name of charitable trust and subsequently the same was sold by the President of the Trust to his own sons and a close relative. It is nothing but a sham transaction and fraud played by the trustees to make commercial use of the public land held in Trust. It is nothing but a breach of trust, cheating and legal fraud committed by the Trustees in connivance with the authorities concerned. The authorities/State Government is the Trustee of the land in question and instead of protecting the public utility land, they had resumed it in favour of the private persons in a mala fide, arbitrary and unjust manner. He has, therefore, submitted that the question involved is of huge public importance and, therefore, even if it is assumed that the petitioner has some personal grudge against opposite party no.5 or the Concept Cars Limited, this Public Interest Litigation would be maintainable, and the Court is required to examine the issue of public importance involved in the petition. 26.	Sri P.V. Chadhary, learned Amicus has further submitted that this Court vide order dated 18.3.2021 has itself recorded the important issues involved in the writ petition and held that if it is found that the petitioner was espousing his personal vendetta/grudge against opposite party no.5, but if the facts mentioned in the writ petition were correct, the Court would itself examine the issues involved and register the present writ petition as Public Interest Litigation suo motu. 27.	Sri P.V. Chadhary, learned Amicus has taken this Court to the detailed report submitted by the three members committee, which was constituted by the District Magistrate, Hardoi vide order dated 30.3.2021 and has submitted that the District Magistrate, Hardoi has rightly held that the order of resumption of land in favour of the Trust, was wholly illegal and without jurisdiction and void ab initio. He has further submitted that since the order of resumption dated 30.1.1987 in favour of Gyan Yog Charitable Trust through its Chairman was void ab initio, there is no question of exchanging the land with some other land. 28. Sri P.V. Chadhary, learned Amicus has further submitted that the land was public utility land and the same was illegally obtained by Sri Radhey Shyam Agarwal, father of opposite party no.5, by using his influence and reach being an ex-IAS officer. Though the land was obtained for charitable purpose, but the same is being used for commercial purpose and the same cannot be exchanged in any manner. Illegal encroachment of the Gram Sabha land cannot be regularized inasmuch as the same would amount to perpetuating the illegalities. Even if the opposite parties are carrying out the commercial activities for several years, the same would not vest them with any legal right to continue their illegal possession and the villagers cannot be allowed to suffer merely because the opposite party no 5 and others have continued to occupy the land for several years. The unauthorized occupants are liable to be evicted. He has, therefore, submitted that this Court should order for eviction of the opposite parties forthwith from the land in question, which is a public utility land which was wrongfully resumed by the then District Magistrate in favour of the Trust inasmuch as the opposite parties have no right to continue possession of the land in question. 29.	Sri K.K. Singh, learned counsel for the petitioner has supported the submissions made by Sri P.V. Chaudhary, learned Amicus and has prayed that writ petition be allowed, and the opposite parties be evicted forthwith from the land in question. 30.	Sri Shailendra Kumar Singh, learned Chief Standing Counsel assisted by Sri Yogesh Kumar Awasthi, learned Standing Counsel has submitted that admittedly the trust namely, Gyan Yog Charitable Trust, is a private trust. The powers under Section 117(6) of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act can be exercised by the State Government for resuming the land vested in the Gram Sabha or any other local authority. However, the public utility land covered under Section 132 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act cannot be allotted in favour of any person. It has been further submitted that the said land was recorded as ''Jangal Dhak' in revenue record and was a public utility land, therefore, resuming the said land for a private Trust, was in violation of Section 132 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act and, therefore, it was void ab initio. 31.	On facts, the order passed by the District Magistrate, Hardoi has been supported. It has been submitted that the order dated 30.1.1987 was void ab initio in terms of law. It has also been submitted that the Trustees have played fraud and breached the trust inasmuch as they have usurped the public land held by the government under trust for their commercial venture. The land, which was allotted ostensibly for charitable purposes, is being used for commercial establishment and the transfer of the land by the Managing Trustee in favour of his sons, who are the Treasurer and the Trustees of the Trust and a close relative, is a legal fraud and thus, transfer would not vest them with any right over the land, which is a public utility land illegally allotted to the Trust for charitable purposes. It has also been submitted that the Tehsildar has already passed orders for eviction and compensation and the action accordingly would be taken against the illegal occupants and the encroachers of the Gram Sabha land. 32.	Sri Mohd. Arif Khan, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Sri Mohd. Aslam Khan and Sri Ratnesh Chandra has submitted that though the land was recorded as land in Class-5(iii)(b)(2) in the revenue record but the same was not a public utility land. He has further submitted that the land of Class-5(iii)(b)(2) would refer to the nature of land to be a cultivated land, which remained uncultivated since long time, due to which stray trees etc, came up over it naturally. He has also submitted that merely use of the term ''Jangal Dhak' in revenue record, would not render the nature of the land as public utility land and merely by use of nomenclature ''Jangal Dhak', the land would not ipso facto become a land of public utility. He has further submitted that public utility lands are those lands, which are mentioned in Class-6 and only those lands are saved under Section 132 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act or the lands, which are reserved under the consolidation operation. The land, which has been earmarked as a public utility land, basically refers to a land which has been kept reserved for being utilized as a common land by residents of a Gaon Sabha to whom it has been entrusted under Section 117(6) of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act. However, Gram Sabha will not have any absolute right over the said land and the State will continue to be ultimate owner of the property. 33.	Sri Mohd. Arif Khan, learned Senior Advocate has further submitted that Section 117(6) of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act deals with the power of the State Government to resume any land entrusted to Gram Sabha, and take over control of any piece of land. The reservation over such land resumed by the State Government will not continue. There is no fetter upon the power of the State Government to resume any public utility land inasmuch as on resumption, the land would not be treated to be a land in control any more by the provisions of the U.P.Z.A. &L.R. Act. He has therefore, submitted that resumption by the then District Magistrate of the land in question in favour of the Trust, cannot be said to be illegal or against any provision of Section 117(6) of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act. He has further submitted that if it is held that the State Government/Collector has power to resume the land, including the land recorded as ''Jangal Dhak', then the State Government/ Collector would be empowered to assign the land to a private person and the Government Department etc. after receiving the cost of the land under the provisions of U.P. Land Records Manual inasmuch Paragraph No.361 of the U.P. Land Records Manual empowers the Government to dispose of the land in its possession by sale, by grant, by gift etc. He has, therefore, submitted that in the present case, the Collector has firstly taken the land under control of the State Government and, thereafter, has settled it in favour of Gyan Yog Charitable Trust after receiving the cost of the land, and there was no illegality committed in resumption or allotment of the land in favour of the Trust. 34.	Sri Mohd. Arif Khan, learned Senior Advocate has further submitted that the Trust in question, is a private charitable Trust and therefore, any act done by the Trust with the property so purchased by it, can be challenged either by trustees or by the beneficiary thereof. The petitioner is neither the Trustee nor a beneficiary of the Trust, therefore, he is not entitled to challenge the sale of the land of the Trust in favour of two sons and a close relative of the Managing Trustee of the Trust. He has also submitted that this writ petition under the garb of ''Public Interest Litigation' would not be maintainable inasmuch as the Trust being a charitable Trust, an aggrieved person is required to approach the regular Civil Court by way of filing proceedings under Section 92 of Code of Civil Procedure. He has submitted that the purchasers of the land had already moved an application before the appropriate authority to give in exchange an equally valuable bigger piece of land in lieu of the land sold by the trust, and this Court may pass an order directing the State Government to consider the exchange as per law prevailing on the subject. He has further submitted that the exchange of the land is permitted under Section 101 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 read with Rules 101 and 102 of the U.P. Revenue Rules, 2016 and the statute itself permits the exchange of land of any kind or nature. Therefore, the authorities may be directed to consider the application of the purchasers for exchange of the land. Relevant Provisions:- 35.	Para A-124 of the U.P. Land Records Manual provides the classes of the tenure or categories of land, which reads as under:- 36. Section 117 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950 is in respect of the vesting of certain lands etc. in Gram Sabhas and other local authorities. Section 117(6) of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950 reads as under:- 37. Section 132 of U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950 provides the category of lands in which bhumidhari rights shall not accrue. Relevant provisions of Section 132 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950 read as under:- ................ (c) lands declared by the Slate Government by notification in the Official Gazette, to be intended or set apart for taungya plantation or grove lands of a [Gaon Sabha] or a Local Authority or land acquired or held for a public purpose and in particular and without prejudice to the generality of this clause- .................... (vi) lands set apart for public purposes under the U.P. Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1953 (U.P. Act V of 1954).]" 38. Section 101 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 permits the exchange of land by a Bhumidhar with prior permission in writing of the Sub-Divisional Officer. However, it further provides that the Sub-Divisional Officer shall refuse permission for exchange inter alia in respect of the land in which bhumidhari rights do not accrue. Section 101 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 reads as under:- Analysis: 39.	It is a trite law that if a writ petition filed by a person raises question of public importance involving exercise of power by men in authority, then it is the duty of the Court to enquire into the matter. The legal fraud played by the public authority for benefit of the private persons at the expense of public at large cannot be condoned. In the present case, even if it is believed that the petitioner has some personal grudge or score to settle with opposite party no.5 and his sons, the cause espoused by him in this writ petition is of greater public importance and, therefore, this Court in its order dated 18.3.2021 observed that looking at the facts of the case, this Court may treat this writ petition as Public Interest Litigation suo motu. 40.	Supreme Court in the case of Akhil Bhartiya Upbhokta Congress Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and others , (2011) 5 SCC 29 in paragraph 80 held as under:- 41.	The State or its instrumentalities cannot give largesse to any person according to the sweet will and whims of the authorities of the State. Every action/decision of the State and its agencies/instrumentalities to give largesse or confer benefit must be founded on a sound, transparent, discernible and well-defined policy. Paragraph 65 of the said judgment reads as Under:- 42.	This Court in Gyanendra Singh Vs. Additional Commissioner, Agra Division, Agra, 2003 (95) RD 286 has held that the land recorded as ''Jangal Dhak' is a forest land and is a public utility land and same cannot be transferred by way of lease, sale etc and no bhumidhari rights shall accrue in respect of the said land. These lands are saved under Section 132 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950. This Court considering the provisions of Section 132 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950 held that lands recorded as ''Jangal Dhak' are covered by the lands enumerated under Section 132 U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950 and the same cannot be transferred in favour of anyone. 43.	This Court defined in the said judgment that ''Jangal Dhak' means ''Dhaka Forest'. Dhaka is a kind of small tree having large leaves. It has been held that the entry of the land as ''Jangal Dhak' would mean that it is a forest land and forest is beneficial for human life and environment. Therefore, the land in the category of ''Jangal Dhak' is a public utility land, in respect of which no bhumidhari right can accrue. Paragraphs 7 and 8 of the said judgement read as under:- 44.	Thus, I do not find any substance in the submission of Sri Mohd. Arif Khan, learned Senior Advocate that the land in question, which was recorded as ''Jangal Dhak' is not a public utility land and, therefore, there was no bar under Section 132 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950. 45.	This Court has taken judicial notice of the fact regarding loot of the public property and observed that during consolidation proceedings, consolidation authorities/officers liberally donate the Gram Sabha properties to influential and resourceful persons by passing illegal and arbitrary orders. 46. In the case of Dina Nath Vs. State of U.P. and others , 2009 (108) RD 321, this Court directed the Collectors of all the districts in the State to reopen such cases where names of private persons are entered in revenue records based on old pattas or adverse possession over Gram Sabha land and correct the illegality by taking suo motu action. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the said judgement, which are relevant, are extracted herein below:- 47.	Supreme Court in the case of Dina Nath Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and others , (2010) 15 SCC 218, not only upheld the said direction issued by this Court in its order dated 8.9.2009 passed in the case of Dina Nath (supra), but dismissed the Special Leave Petition with exemplary cost of Rs.50,000/-. It has been further held that in a matter such as this, the Court cannot be a silent spectator and is bound to perform its constitutional duty for ensuring that the public property is not frittered by unscrupulous elements in the power corridors and acts of grabbing public land are properly enquired into and appropriate remedial action be taken. Paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of the aforesaid judgement are extracted herein below:- 48.	A Division Bench of this Court again in the case of Rajendra Tyagi Vs. State of U.P. through Principal Secretary, Nagar Vikas, Babu Bhawan, Lucknow and others, 2016 (131) RD 243 took judicial notice of the loot of the Gram Sabha land with active assistance and connivance of the revenue officers on a large scale and suggested the steps to be taken by the Government to prevent the loot and take corrective measures. The Division Bench interpreted the provisions of sub-section(6) of Section 117 of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950 and held in paragraph 8 as under:- The principle is stated thus: 49.	This Court vide its judgment and order dated 17.7.2012 passed in Writ-A No.33751 of 2012 in view of the fraud being played in respect of the allotment of the public utility land in favour of private persons by the authorities in power in respect of the Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Panchsheel Nagar (Hapur) where the land has become extremely valuable suggested as under:- 50.	The land which was a public utility land, was resumed and allotted in favour of a private person, Late R.S Agrawal, Ex-IAS officer by the then District Magistrate in purported exercise of the power under Section 117(6) of the U.P.Z.A. & L.R. Act, 1950 for charitable purpose and now it is being used for commercial purposes, therefore, such a land cannot be exchanged in any manner. Even otherwise, under Section 101 of the U.P. Revenue Code, 2006 the land in which bhumidhari rights cannot get accrued, cannot be exchanged. 51.	Therefore, I am not convinced with the submission of Sri Mohd Arif Khan, learned Senior Advocate that once the land was resumed by the District Magistrate, it came out of the purview of the provisions of the U.P.Z.A.&L.R. Act, 1950 and cannot be governed under the said Act. 52.	The question is whether in the said land the bhumidhari rights could have been created by transferring the said land in favour of a private person headed by a retired IAS officer. 53. 	As discussed above, the land recorded as a ''Jangal Dhak', is a public utility land and on such land bhumidhari rights could not have been created in favour of private person/ Trust headed by a such a person. Since the very order of resuming the land for a private Trust, was against the law and, therefore, it was void ab initio and no valid right, title or interest got accrued in favour of the private Trust and no exchange, therefore, is permitted. It is nothing but a mala fide, arbitrary and colourable exercise of the power by the then District Magistrate on a fraud played by the Trustees by usurping the public utility land ostensibly given for the charitable purposes, but they sold it amongst themselves for commercial purpose and constructed a commercial building, in which commercial establishment is being run for profit. This is nothing but an illegal encroachment of the Gram Sabha land by respondent No.5 and his family members. Such illegality cannot be permitted to continue in perpetuity. For commercial interest of opposite party no.5 and his sons, the villagers cannot be allowed to suffer. 54.	Supreme Court in the case of Jagpal Singh and others Vs. State of Punjab and others , (2011) 11 SCC 396, noticed that since Independence, in large parts of the country this common village land has been grabbed by unscrupulous persons using muscle power, money power or political clout, and in many States now there is not an inch of such land left for the common use of the people of the village, though it may exist on paper. It has been further held that long duration of such illegal occupation or huge expenditure in making constructions thereon or political connections cannot be treated as a justification for condoning this illegal act or for regularizing the illegal possession. Regularization should only be permitted in exceptional cases, where lease has been granted under some Government Notification to landless labourers or members of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes or where there is already a school, dispensary or other public utility on the land. Paragraph 22 of the aforesaid judgement reads as under :- 55. In the aforesaid judgment, the Supreme Court took note of the judgement in the case of M.I. Builders (P) Ltd. Vs Radhey Shyam Sahu , 1999 (6) SCC 464, in which the Supreme Court ordered for restoration of a park after demolition of a shopping complex constructed at the cost of over Rs.100 Crores. 56. In the case of Friends Colony Development Committee Vs. State of Orissa , 2004 (8) SCC 733, the Supreme Court held that even where the law permits compounding of unsanctioned constructions, such compounding should only be by way of an exception. 57.	This Court wonders that if Late R.S. Agrawal was not an IAS officer, could the then District Magistrate have resumed the land for him. Judicial notice has been taken of the phenomenon of grabbing scarce natural resources by powerful persons in active connivance with the state machinery. A few in the administrative establishment who have commitment to the rule of law take initiative to correct the wrong done favouring powerful persons. Such officers who could muster courage of conviction face unsurmountable pressure from all quarters, which is evident in the present case. This Court believes that but for the cognizance taken by this Court of the fraud played by the Trustees in connivance with the State machinery, it would have been extremely difficult for the District Magistrate to pass the order dated 4.6.2021. This Court appreciates the courage of conviction shown by the District Magistrate and his team. 58.	The natural resources are limited and scarce and meant to be preserved and protected. The State holds natural resources such as land, forests, minerals etc on behalf the citizens of this country in trust. The state authorities can not allow natural resources going in the hands of unscrupulous persons who have money and muscle power or have influence in the State machinery. If one undertakes a case study regarding the wealth in the hands of people who have enjoyed power or in power, startling facts would come out that how people with absolutely no means or with limited means once occupied power became rich/super rich and without any known source of income from calling or profession live Maharaja lifestyle in palace like houses. Once these people reach to power, they create enormous wealth for themselves not by legal and justified means but by corruption and taking control of scarce and valuable natural resources by their influence over the administration. This Court can not shut its eyes to this alarming phenomenon. New kind of Maharajas and princes have prop up after independence who could or have reached to power even for short period. The people are not pursuing merit as they find that merit is not recognised in this country. They believe that to earn wealth and power, one should enter politics. Politics is no longer a public service but a means to achieve power and wealth. This phenomenon must be reversed if democracy has to survive in this country and society is to be governed by rule of law. Unscrupulousness must be eschewed. Merit is to be recognised and respected . Conclusion: 59.	In view of the aforesaid discussion, answers to the questions formulated above are as under:- 60.	In view of the aforesaid discussion, writ petition is allowed with the following directions: - 61.	Let a copy of this judgment be communicated forthwith to the Chief Secretary, Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary, Revenue and the District Magistrates, Hardoi and Sitapur for necessary compliance. (Dinesh Kumar Singh, J.)
 
Order Date: 5th July, 2022
 
Rao/-