- 1. The applicant seeks quashment of FIR in Crime No.252/2025

 registered with Police Station CIDCO, Tq. and Dist. Chhatrapati

 Sambhajinagar for offences punishable under Sections 64, 64(2)(m)

 69 of Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 and consequential proceedings

 in Regular Criminal Case No.2013/2025 pending before Judicial

 Magistrate First Class at Aurangabad. (2) appln-3289-2025.odt 2. The investigation was set in motion on information given by

respondent no.2 alleging that she married with one Anil, resident

of Jalna. However, on third day after marriage she came to know

that her husband had love affair since before their marriage.

Hence, she left company of her husband. Since March-2024 she is

serving at MGM Hospital. She was also preparing for recruitment

in Police Department. In that process, she got acquaintance with

applicant/accused. They used to practice in premises of University.

She developed love affair with applicant/accused. She had

informed applicant about her marriage. However, applicant

started residing with her. He developed physical relationship

under pretext that he would marry with her. The relationship

continued while they were residing together. In January 2025,

applicant got recruited in Maharashtra Home Guard. However, he

continued to reside with applicant for 3 to 4 days a week. 3. On 14.03.2025, she noticed that applicant chatting with a

lady through mobile application. When she questioned about lady,

applicant replied that she is his friend. On that count, there was

quarrel between informant and applicant. Thereafter, applicant

introduced her to his grandmother and promised that he would

marry her. The applicant's grandmother consented for the same.

However, applicant discontinued relationship with informant and

refused to marry under pretext that his family members are not
 (3) appln-3289-2025.odt

ready to accept marriage. It is accordingly alleged that applicant

raped on her. The aforesaid information has been culminated into

registration of Crime No.252/2025 with Police Station CIDCO.

Eventually, investigation was progressed leading to filing of

charge-sheet no.376/2025. Presently Regular Criminal Case

No.2013/2025 is pending before Judicial Magistrate First Class at

Aurangabad. 4. Mr. Mohit Deshmukh, learned Advocate appearing for

applicant submits that contents of FIR and investigation papers

depicts that physical relation between informant and applicant was

consensual. There is no element of fraud, undue influence,

misrepresentation or mistake at inception of consensual

relationship. The informant was a married lady. Her matrimonial

ties were in subsistence. In this background, physical consensual

relationship was maintained by informant with application. In

backdrop of such factual matrix, it can never be said that inception

of physical relationship between applicant and informant was

under pretext of promise to marriage. In support of his contentions

he relies upon observation of Supreme Court in case of Pramod

Suryabhan Pawar Vs. State of Maharashtra and Another 1, Mahesh Damu Khare Vs. State of Maharashtra and Another 2

and Nitin B. Nikhare Vs. The State of Maharashtra & Anr 1 (2019) 9 SCC 608. 2 (2024) 11 SCC 398. Deshmukh would further submit that even assuming that there

was promise of marriage, unless investigation depicts that false

promise was made at inception of relationship or such false

promise triggered inception of such relationship, presumption of

mistaken belief or false assurance cannot be drawn. Further

relying upon judgment in cases of Naim Ahamed Vs. State (NCT

of Delhi )3 and Prashant Bharti Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) 4, he

submits that if complaint and investigation does not inspire

confidence as to false promise of marriage, prosecution cannot

continue. He would, therefore, urge to quash FIR and proceeding

in exercise of inherent powers under Section 528 of Bhartiya

Nagarik Surksha Sanhita, 2023. 5. Per contra, Mr. Lomte, learned APP appearing for State and

Mrs. Deshpande, learned Advocate appearing for respondent no.2

would submit that informant has clearly stipulated that she was

unwilling for physical relationship, however, on false promise of

marriage, she was induced to develop and continue physical

relationship with applicant. Therefore, trial is necessary in facts of

case. 6. Careful reading of FIR depicts that informant is working lady

aged about 27 years. She was married. However, abandoned
3 (2023) 15 SCC 385. 4 (2013) 9 SCC 293. (5) appln-3289-2025.odt

company of her husband. While her matrimonial relationship was

subsisting, applicant and informant both were preparing for police

recruitment and training together at University ground. Since

March-2024 they developed intimacy. The informant had given

idea about her marital status to applicant. They resided together

in common house and continued consensual sexual relationship

approximately for one year. If aforesaid factual matrix is taken

into account, there is no semblance of ingredients constituting

offence of rape. However, further stipulation in FIR that applicant

had promised to marry informant and, therefore, informant was

induced to consent for physical relationship may be a triggering

point to attract ingredients of offence. It is, therefore, required to

be examined, whether inducement on account of false promise can

really be inferred from allegations in FIR. 7. Admittedly, informant was married with one Anil resident of

Jalna and her matrimonial ties were intact. In this background,

assuming that applicant had assured or promised to marry with

informant, such marriage was not possible in law as long as her

matrimonial ties with Anil were subsisting. The contents of FIR

would demonstrate that applicant and informant came together

being aspirant for recruitment in Police Department. They

developed intimacy with each other. The informant allowed

applicant to reside in common house with her. During stay
 (6) appln-3289-2025.odt

physical relationship between them was established. In this

background, it is difficult to believe that applicant was induced for

physical relationship under false promise of marriage. It can be

safely inferred that physical intimacy was germane of love affair. 8. Perusal of charge-sheet shows that there is no other material

that would substantiate theory of inducement or false promise

being triggering point for sexual relationship between applicant

and informant. The statement of witnesses namely Kalyani Wagh,

Babitai Channe and Ravi Chavan throws light on fact that

applicant and informant were residing together in shared

accommodation and nothing beyond that. The statement of Babitai

Channe, landlady, depicts that informant introduced applicant to

be in a relationship and they were willing to marry each other.

However, this statement is not sufficient to bring home allegations

of sexual relationship under inducement or under pretext of false

promise of marriage. 9. Since informant and applicant had love affair and resided

together for more than 12 months, although informant was already

married, physical relationship between applicant and informant

can never be said to be on account of inducement or

misrepresentation on part of applicant. It is not conceivable that

informant had engaged in a physical relationship with applicant on

an assurance of marriage, when she was already married to
 (7) appln-3289-2025.odt

someone else, particularly when such a promise, to begin with, was

illegal and unenforceable qua applicant. 10. In similar circumstances, in case of Amol Bhagwan Nehul

Vs. State of Maharashtra and Another 5, Supreme Court of

India observed in paragraph no.9 as under: 11. Similarly, in case of Mahesh Damu Khare (supra),

Supreme Court of India cautioned against large number of cases

wherein prolonged consensual relationships are sought to be

criminalised after they later turn sour. Reference can be given to

observations in paragraph nos.39 and 40, which reads thus: 12. In case of Naim Ahamed (supra), Supreme Court of India

observed that prosecutrix who herself was married woman having

three children, could not be said to have acted under alleged false

promise given by appellant or under misconception of fact while

giving consent to have sexual relationship with appellant.

Undisputedly, she continued to have such relationship with him at

least for about five years till she gave complaint in year 2015.

Even if allegations made by her in her deposition before Court, are

taken on their face value, then also to construe such allegations as

'rape' by appellant, would be stretching case too far. The

prosecutrix being married woman and mother of three children was

matured and intelligent enough to understand significance and

consequences of moral or immoral quality of act she was consenting

to. 13. In case of Pramod Suryabhan Pawar (supra), Supreme

Court elaborately discussed issue as to consensual sexual

relationship and observed in paragraph no.18 as under: 14. In light of aforesaid legal position emerging from catena of

decision of Supreme Court of India, this Court finds that entire

criminal proceeding initiated against applicant is nothing but

abuse of process of law. In result, looking to law laid down by Supreme Court in case of State of Haryana and Ors. Vs. Ch.

Bhajan Lal and Ors.6 , this Court finds that this is a fit case for

exercise of jurisdiction under Section 528 of Bharatiya Nyaya

Suraksha Sanhita, 2023. Resultantly, following order is passed: (S. G. CHAPALGAONKAR)
 JUDGE
Devendra/January-2026