The debate on e-KYC exclusions took centre stage in Parliament yesterday. The government is repeatedly denying claims of unfair exclusions affecting marginalised populations.

The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food, and Public Distribution (MOCAF&PD) responded to a Lok Sabha question regarding the ‘e-KYC process’. The response stated, “The process leads to the elimination of duplicate and ineligible cardholders.” This, in turn, “creates space for the inclusion of additional eligible & needy beneficiaries.”

In response, the government stated that the eKYC process ensures the “right targeting and the inclusion of genuine beneficiaries.”

The government added that the process of eKYC does not marginalize anyone; instead, it excludes ineligible beneficiaries.

The government further emphasized that State/UT (Union Territory) governments are responsible for identifying ineligible or duplicate ration cards and including eligible beneficiaries. The government highlighted that States/UTs must conduct proper verification, including field verification, to ensure they do not exclude legitimate beneficiaries.

This shift in accountability is notable, even though the UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India), under the ambit of the Government of India, regulates the e-KYC process under the Aadhaar Act.

The MOCAF&PD responded to another Lok Sabha question regarding ‘Cancellation of Ration Cards Due to e-KYC’. The response stated that the government is not aware of reports indicating that the mandatory e-KYC verification process is leading to the exclusion of genuine ration cardholders, particularly affecting migrant populations.

In response, the government stated that States/UTs carry out the eKYC process. No data on ration cards cancelled due to the implementation of eKYC is available with the Department of Food and Public Distribution.

Last month, the ministry stated that “Digitalization and Aadhar seeding have led to de-duplication of ration cards and approx. 5.8 crore ration cards have been removed from the PDS system”.

Moreover, reports by The Wire and Down to Earth stated that the e-KYC verification process aimed at removing ineligible beneficiaries (such as deceased or fraudulent individuals) from the food security coverage list is becoming a significant challenge for many legitimate ration cardholders, especially among the migrant population.

Activists in Odisha also urged the government to halt e-KYC verification, fearing exclusion from the National Food Security Act, reported The Hindu.

A third statement in the day by the MOCAF&PD regarding e-KYC digitisation, in response to a Lok Sabha question regarding ‘Ration Card Digitisation’, stated, “So far, authorities have de-duplicated 45,16,519 Ration Cards.”

It’s important to note the discrepancy between the de-duplication of 45.16 lakh ration cards and the removal of 5.8 crore ration cards from the PDS system. It can be potentially explained as follows:

In response, the government stated that all States/UTs have fully digitised the ration card and beneficiary databases.

Moreover, it added that the government has not allocated or spent any funds for the digitisation of ration cards in the current fiscal year.

Furthermore, it said that the government faced no challenges in digitizing ration cards in rural and remote areas.

Moreover, Karti Chidambaram also pointed out the fallacies within the KYC system in Lok Sabha yesterday. “The tyranny of KYC is happening. I am sure you have a bank account which is linked to some phone number, and they are calling you all the time and asking you to update KYC.” I think we should stop this tyranny of KYC. When nothing has changed, your name hasn’t changed, your parents’ name hasn’t changed, your address hasn’t changed, nothing has changed but the bank is calling you continuously in a year, asking you to update your KYC and it’s a serious harassment.”, he stated .

“(This is happening) because they are outsourcing the KYC process to some third-party agency, and the agency has to make these calls to harass you. In order to make life simple for the customer, they must simplify and mandate that if there is no change then, there should be no reason to update to your KYC, he added.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event