The above case has been posted to today for consideration of report

filed by the Committee appointed by this Tribunal. 2. When the matter came up for hearing today through Video

Conference, Dr. V.R. Thirunarayanan represented respondents 1 to 5, 7 Page 1 of 11 and 8 and Mr. C. Kasirajan through Ms. D. Ashwini represented sixth

respondent. 3. It is seen from the report that on similar issue there are other

connected matters pending before this Tribunal as O.A.No.55 of 2020,

O.A.No.191 of 2020 and O.A.No.37 of 2012. 4. We have received the Joint Committee Report dated 'nil' e-filed on

4.3.2021, received on the same day which reads as follows: 2. It is alleged in the report that huge amount has been spent by the Government for
 rejuvenating the Putheri Lake in Pallavaram. However, due to the negligence and lapses
 on the part of the local bodies there is no maintenance for the lakes, whereby lot of
 water hyacinth have grown affecting the flow of the water and also reducing the oxygen
 level in the water. 3. Further, it is also alleged in the report that indiscriminate discharge of sewage is being
 done in that area and the municipal authorities are pumping sewage water into the lake
 thereby affecting the quality of the water causing pollution. 2. COMPLIANCE OF THE DIRECTION

 It is respectfully submitted that in due compliance of the orders of the Hon'ble National
Green Tribunal, water samples were collected by the officials of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control
Board along with RDO, Tambaram and officials from Pallavapuram Municipality from the
Putheri Lake in Pallavaram on 20/08/2020. Collection of water sample to ascertain the quality of water in the Putheri Lake in
Pallavaram

Statement showing the value of the Physico chemical parameters analysed

 Parameters Units Point of Collection TNPCB Standards
 (Inland Surface
 Putheri Lake in
Sl. Pallavaram Water)
No

1 pH @ 25oC No. 7.84 5.5-9 2 Total Suspended Solids @ mg/L 56 100 Page 3 of 11 105oC
3 Total Dissolved Solids @ 180oC mg/L 1006 2100 4 BOD @ 27oC mg/L 40 30 5 COD mg/L 360 250 6 Copper as Cu mg/L <0.033 3 7 Zinc as Zn mg/L <0.01 1 8 Cadmium as Cd mg/L <0.013 2 9 Lead as Pb mg/L <0.07 0.1 10 Nickel as Ni mg/L <0.05 3 11 Total Chromium Cr mg/L <0.01 2 12 Hexavalent Chromium Cr+6 mg/L <0.01 0.1
13 Iron as Fe mg/L <0.01 - 14 D.O mg/L 5 5mg/l and above
Statement showing the value of the Bacteriological parameters analysed

Sl. Parameters Units Point of Collection Primary Water
No Quality Criteria for
 Putheri Lake in Pallavaram
 Bathing Waters
 prescribed by
 Central Pollution
 Control Board
1 Total Coliform MPN 1700 500 or less. The Report of analysis of the water samples collected from the said water body reveals that
the Physico chemical parameters analysed satisfy the Inland surface water standards
prescribed by the Board. Furthermore the water sample collected from the Putheri Lake in
Pallavaramanalysed for Bacteriological parameter.Total Coliform exceeds the standards and
the Faecal Coliform meets the Primary Water Quality Criteria for Bathing Waters prescribed by
Central Pollution Control Board. 3. REPORT OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT: 4. REPORT FROM COMMISSIONER, PALLAVAPURAM MUNICIPALITY 1. Pallavapuram is a Special Grade Municipality 2. Location of the saidPutheri lake:Survey No.273 of Zamin Pallavaram Village 3. Extent of Putheri lake:4.23 hectares 4. Total Area of the Pallavapuram Municipality : 18.01 Sq.Km 5. Total Population of the Pallavapuram Municipality: 2,15,452 6. Total Household of the Pallavapuram Municipality: 75,000 7. No of Wards: 42 8. Total Solid waste generation: 104 T/day (Biodegradable waste - 44T/day & Non
 Biodegradable Waste - 60 T/day) 9. Total Sewage generation: 9 MLD

 It is respectfully submitted that the said complaints regarding the Sewage reaching the
Putheri Lake had arisen due to the fact that during the Monsoon of 2019, there was huge inflow
of rain water along with sewage into Underground Sewage system (UGSS) of the Pallavapuram
Municipality and the same was a cause for the overflow of the sewage mixed with Rain water
from the pumping lines, lifting stations and the pumping stations in a few places. Particularly in the Lifting station in Aishwarya Nagar there was overflow of the water that
accumulated in the collection well. As there was a power failure at the time of the excessive rain
the overflow of the sewage and flood waters had occurred. Due to this the water mixed with
sewage had drained into the Putheri Lake through the natural channels in the area. The said overflow was the reason for the sewage mixed with rain water to reach the
Putheri Lake. The defect in the capacity of the lifting station was identified. In order to rectify the
same, the capacity of the said Lifting station was improved by increasing the power of the
Pumps installed in the Lifting station. In addition, a new Power Generator has been placed in
the Lifting station at times of power failure. In this regard the two 5HP motors were replaced with two 10 HP motors and the allied
pumps. This essentially increases the capacity of the Lifting station to more than double its
capacity and the said overflow has been now completely addressed. Moreover, the provision of
Generator will ensure that the Lifting station will function even during the times off power failure
and during the Stormy weather
 Even during the monsoon season from October 2020 till date, the overflow of the same
lifting station has not happened and the UGSS is now functioning without any overflow or
leakages. It is submitted that the overflow that happened in the Monsoon of 2019 was also due Page 5 of 11 to the fact that the UGSS was completed in 2017-18 in the left out area and the same was first
heavy monsoon after the completion of the UGSS in the said area. With regard to the maintenance of the Putheri Lake it is submitted that the Lake is in two
parts namely South and North and it is separated by the Radial Road. The Lifting station is on
the Southern part of the lake. The work of deepening the lake in order to restore its capacity
was carried out by Pallavapuram Municipalityand completed in the Month of June 2020, utilizing
the CSR Funds through the District Collector, Kancheepuram. The work involved is desilting,
deepening, formation of Bund, footpath around its periphery at an estimate cost of Rs.30 Lakhs.
With regard to the Northern part the same is deepened with the assistance of an NGO by name
Pasumai Sei and the lake has been restored to its full capacity. Further on 30-12-2020 it as noticed that few loads of solid waste had been dumped on
the northern part of the Putheri Lake on the night of 29-12-2020. Immediate action was taken
and the same was also removed using the machinery. Action will be taken by the Pallavapuram Municipality for removal of hyacinth in the
Putheri Lake. SEWAGE GENERATION AND DISPOSAL ARRANGEMENTS: Of the 60 MT/day of Non biodegradable waste, saleable waste such as plastics, glass bottles
and metals to the tune 10MT/day are sold to the recycling facility. Garden waste and Coconut
shell to the tune of 10MT/day are being sent to garden waste processing facility at Perungudi
operated and maintained by Greater Chennai Corporation and the remaining 40MT/day of Non
biodegradable waste is taken to theGanapathipuram Transfer Station, from where the same is
transported to Kodungaiyur dump site of Greater Chennai Corporation. Pallavapuram Municipality earlier transported the Non biodegradable solid waste to the
Integrated Municipal Solid Waste processing facility at Vangadamangalam Village, Vandalur
Taluk, Chengalpattu District and dumped in the premises of the said facility. The Hon'ble
National Green Tribunal in Original Application 208 of 2017 dated: 16.12.2019 directed the local
bodies Tambaram, Pallavapuram, Sembakkam Municipalities not to use the said area for
further dumping. Thereafter the local body is disposing the same through Chennai Corporation
dumping yard. Action Plan for Solid Waste Management
Short Term 1. Pallavapuram Municipality is carrying out composting of the biodegradable waste at
 its Micro Compost centres(MCC) and Onsite Composting Centers(OCC) 2. Pallavapuram Municipality is carrying out the disposal of recyclable and saleable
 waste through recycling facilities. 3. Pallavapuram Municipality disposing the Non biodegradable waste through Greater
 Chennai Corporation using its Kodungaiyur dumping facility.
Long Term : Photographs taken during the time of inspection of the Joint Committee 6. OBSERVATIONS BY THE COMMITTEE
During the time of inspection, the committee observed the following 1. Putheri Eri is located at survey no.273 of Zamin Pallavaram Village, Pallavaram Taluk,
 Chengalpattu District 2. It is bounded by vacant land and M/s Vels Universityin the Northern side, lifting station
 and Kurinji nagar in the Southern side, road and vacant land in the Eastern side and
 Aishwarya Nagar and Surya Avenue in the Western side. 3. Putheri Eri spreads over in an extent of 4.23 hectares and it is divided by the Radial
 Road into two parts namely Southern and Northern part. 4. Hyacinth was found in the southern part of Putheri Eri. 5. The overflow of the Pallavaram Periya Eri and the storm water from the Malliga Nagar
 and Velmurugan colony area near the Vels University reaches this Eri. 6. The overflow of this Eri leads to Pallikaranai Marsh land through Keelkattalai Surplus
 course. 7. Pallavapuram Municipality is carrying out the processing of the biodegradable waste
 collected from the Municipality area and handling the same as per Solid Waste
 Managmenet Rules, 2016.The local body is having solid waste processing facility to
 process the biodegradable waste generated in the Pallavapuram municipal area for
 which the local body has obtained Authorization from the TNPCB vide Procs. No.
 JCEE(M)/ TNPCB/ CHN./ SWM/ F.6840/ MMN/2019, Dated 08/04/2019 valid upto
 31/03/2020 and subsequently extended up to 30/09/2020. 8. It was reported by the Pallavapuram Municipality that the entire non biodegradable
 waste will be taken to the Vengadamangalam solid waste processing facility after the
 installation of the 2 x 50 tonne capacity incinerator with necessary control measures. 9. Sewage is pumped into Putheri Lake in Pallavaramfor which a suo moto case O A
 No.55 of 2020 under the caption "Sewage is pumped into Putheri Lake in Pallavaram/
 Back to the Brink"is pending before the Hon'ble National Green Tribunal. 10. Accumulation of non biodegradable waste was noticed in the Ganapathipuram transfer
 station for which a suo moto case O A No.191 of 2020 under the caption "In Pallavaram,
 the road is dump yard"is pending before the Hon'ble National Green Tribunal. 11. Pallavapuram municipality is carrying out the biomining of the legacy waste in the
 Pallavaram Periya Eri for which O A No.37 of 2012 filed by S.P Surendranath Karthik,
 Madipakkam, Chennaiis pending before the Hon'ble National Green Tribunal. 12. It is ascertained from the Pallavapuram municipalitythat during Monsoon 2019 there was
 a overflow from the sewage pumping station located in the southern end of the Putheri
 Eri and same was rectified by providing pumps with increased horse power along with
 standby DG set of capacity 25 KVA. 13. Further on 30/12/2020 it was noticed that few loads of solid waste had been dumped in
 the northern part of the Putheri Eri, Pallavapuram municipalityhas taken action and
 removed the dumped solid waste and the same was taken to the Ganapathipuram
 transfer station. 14. Pallavapuram municipality has identified the person who has dumped the solid waste in
 the said nothern part of the Putheri Eri and levied a fine of Rs.25000 and the same was
 collected. 7. RECOMMENDATIONS: They have not ascertained what is the present status and whether any

environmental compensation has to be recovered from the authorities

etc. The Pollution Control Board also did not file any independent action

taken report regarding the violation of environmental laws which are

coming under their purview. The Committee as well as Pallavaram

Municipality are directed to file their status report and the action taken

report to resolve the issue permanently. 6. Since Pallavaram Municipality has not been made as party to the

proceedings, we feel that it is required to be impleaded. So Pallavaram

Municipality, represented by its Commissioner is suo motu impleaded as

additional 9th respondent. The Registry is directed to carry out the

amendment in the cause title. Pallavaram Municipality is directed to

comply with the direction. 7. The Registry is also directed to communicate this order along with Page 10 of 11 the Joint Committee Report, the suo motu proceedings and earlier orders

to Pallavaram Municipality by e-mail immediately so as to enable them

to comply with the direction. The Registry is also directed to

communicate this order to the Members of the Committee, Chief

Secretary, State of Tamil Nadu, Principal Secretary to Government,

Environment Department, Principal Secretary to Government, Irrigation

Department and the local body for their information and compliance of

the direction. They are directed to file their respective report on or before

20.4.2021 by e- filing in the form of Searchable PDF/OCR

Supportable PDF and not in the form of Image PDF along with

necessary hardcopies to be produced as per Rules. For consideration of further report, post on 20.4.2021

 ......................................J.M.
 (Justice K. Ramakrishnan)

 .....................................E.M.
 (Shri. Saibal Dasgupta) O.A. No.56/2020 23.3.2021
Kkr Page 11 of 11