The United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea have issued a joint statement blaming hackers backed by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) for a number of cryptocurrency thefts in 2024, totaling $659.13 million. The three countries collectively attribute four cyberthefts to North Korea, including $308 million from DMM Bitcoin, $50 million from Upbit, $16.13 million from Rain Management and $50 million from Radiant Capital. In addition, the USA and South Korea attribute two more cyberattacks to North Korea, based on “detailed industry analysis:” the July 2024 heist on WazirX, then India’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, that stole $235 million and an attack on Radiant Capital for $50 million.

“The DPRK’s cyber program threatens our three countries and the broader international community and, in particular, poses a significant threat to the integrity and stability of the international financial system,” said the statement.

The document states that advanced persistent threat (ATP) groups linked to the DPRK, with the Lazarus Group as a key threat actor, have been targeting the cryptocurrency industry with social engineering attacks and using malware like TraderTraitor and AppleJeus. Another significant threat comes from North Korean IT workers who pose as legitimate job seekers to infiltrate companies.

The three governments behind the statement have issued multiple advisories about the threat and created a number of multilateral security frameworks like the Illicit Virtual Asset Notification (IVAN) information sharing partnership, the Cryptoasset and Blockchain Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Crypto-ISAC) and others. The statement affirms an intention to combat North Korean cyberattacks through sanctions, with the ultimate aim of denying funding for the nation’s ballistic missile program.

WazirX, then India’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, suffered a cyberattack in July 2024 that left it in the lurch for $235 million, or about half of the company’s total holdings. WazirX stated that the cyber attack occurred due to a discrepancy in data displayed on Liminal’s interface and the actual transaction contents. Liminal is a firm specializing in building secure storage and wallet services for virtual assets, used by WazirX to store its assets.

Cybersecurity firm Elliptic and other independent researchers on X attributed the attack to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK).

WazirX hacked for over $230m USD (2,000 cr INR) Their safe multisig was compromised and drained. The hackers started practicing the hack onchain at least 8 days ago and finally executed it today. It's a very methodical and organized attack, pointing towards DPRK as the hacker. pic.twitter.com/HziVY7dCoq

However, the Delhi Police seems to be following a different angle when investigating the attack, as it arrested a suspect from West Bengal in November last year. The individual, SK Masud Alam, allegedly opened a WazirX account under the fake name of Souvik Mondal and sold it via Telegram to another individual, M Hasan, who then allegedly used it to breach the crypto exchange. M Hasan reportedly escaped to Bangladesh more than two months ago.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event