. This company appeal impugns an order passed by the 

 Company Law Board, Mumbai Bench, Mumbai ("CLB") on petitions filed 
 under Section 111(4) of the Companies Act, 1956 for rectification in the 
 register of members. The petitions for rectification were filed in respect of ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:19 ::: Chittewan/sg 5/31 cal41-15.doc

 eight different companies, who were arraigned respectively as Respondent 
 No.1 in eight separate petitions. The facts of these eight petitions are more 

 
 or less similar and considered hereinbelow in Company Appeal (L) No.41 
 of 2015 arising out of Company Petition No.19 of 2011 as a representative 

 
 case. 2. The short facts of the Petitioner's case may be noted as 

 
 follows : The business interests are substantially owned and controlled through nine 
 investment companies like Respondent No.1 herein. Nearly 98% of the 
 share capital of each of these nine holding companies is held by S.N. Trust. Chittewan/sg 6/31 cal41-15.doc

 6800 shares of Respondent No.1, which constitutes 98% of capital, are 
 accordingly acquired in the joint names of Dr. Kalyani, Sulochana, DGK and 

 
 SNI. Under Section 153 of the Act, Respondent No.1 is not entitled to take 
 cognizance of the trust. Accordingly, Dr. Kalyani, Sulochana, DGK and SNI 

 
 have been joint shareholders of these shares and members of Respondent 
 No.1 Company. (iii) In or about 2005, Dr. Kalyani's health started failing. 
 Gaurishankar having peculiar medical problems connected to his mental / 
 physiological imbalances, preventing him from taking responsibility of 

 
 looking after the family business, Rohini started acquiring a position of 
 
 dominance, control and trust in the affairs of the business of Kalyani family. 
 She was appointed as Managing Director of Kalyani Forge Limited, an 
 
 important group company, and also became a Director of other group 
 companies and started looking after the Kalyani family companies and 
 business affairs. It is Sulochana's grievance that Rohini had illegally and / 
 

 or wrongfully gained confidence of late Dr. Kalyani and Gaurishankar and 
 

 placed herself in a position where she exercised undue influence over 
 them. (iv) Sometime later, unrest started in the family, when Dr. Kalyani 
 and Sulochana started learning about the wrongdoings and illegalities 
 committed by Rohini. With a view to maintain family amity and for other 

 diverse reasons, including the deteriorating health of Dr. Kalyani, no legal 
 action was initiated in the matter, though in January 2010, both Dr. Kalyani 
 and Sulochana revoked two Powers of Attorney, which were earlier 
 executed in favour of Gaurishankar and Rohini. stage of full-blown unrest, whereupon a search was caused to be taken in 
 the records of various statutory authorities, including the Registrar of 

 
 Companies, in respect of Kalyani family companies. Upon these inquiries, 
 Sulochana claims to have gained knowledge of the following : 3. Though the CLB held in favour of the Petitioner on merits of ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:19 ::: Chittewan/sg 9/31 cal41-15.doc

 the case, that is to say, the impugned transfer of shares to be invalid and 
 not in accordance with law, the CLB proceeded to dismiss the petition on 

 
 the following grounds: 4. In their cross appeal/objections, the Respondents contest the 
 impugned order of the CLB on the merits of the controversy as also on 
 various preliminary objections such as locus standi of the Petitioner, non- joinder of necessary parties, etc., which were rejected by the CLB. 5. Going by the arguments advanced by the parties before me, 
 the following questions arise for the consideration of the Court in the 

 present matter: 6. The questions of locus of the Petitioner as one of the four joint 
 
 holders to present a rectification petition and non-joinder of other joint-
 holders/co-trustees can be taken up together. The argument of the 
 
 Respondents is that the Petitioner holds the subject shares as a joint holder 
 and trustee of N.S. Trust along with other joint holders and co-trustees and 
 cannot maintain in her own right a rectification petition and in any event, 
 

 her co-trustees who jointly hold the shares with her ought to have been 
 

 joined as necessary parties to the petition. The Respondents rely on Section 48 of the Indian Trusts Act in this behalf, which provides that when 
 there are more trustees than one, all must join in the execution of the trust 

 except where the instrument of trust otherwise provides. The argument is 
 devoid of substance. Section 153 of the Companies Act provides that no 
 notice of any trust, express, implied or constructive, shall be entered on the 

 register of members. A company cannot take cognizance of any trust and is 
 obliged in law to treat the trustees who may be holding shares in it as 
 merely joint holders. The four trustees of N.S. Trust have, thus, been mere 
 joint holders of the impugned shares qua the company. If it is the case of ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:19 ::: Chittewan/sg 11/31 cal41-15.doc

 the Petitioner, as such joint holder, that without compliance with the 
 provisions of Section 108 , and particularly, her having executed any 

 
 transfer deed, the shares are transferred, she is but an aggrieved person 
 and can certainly apply for rectification in her individual capacity. When 

 
 she does so apply, she is not executing the trust within the meaning of Section 48 of the Trusts Act, but seeking redressal as a 'person aggrieved' 
 under Section 111(4) of the Companies Act. In that case, there is no need 

 
 to join the other joint holders, even if they be co-trustees, as necessary 
 parties. These joint holders cannot be termed as parties who ought to have 
 been joined. The Petitioner, accordingly, had the locus and, as rightly held 

 
 by the CLB, need not have joined the other joint holders/co-trustees as 
 
 parties to the petition. 7. The question of bar of limitation has two aspects- one, whether 
 the Limitation Act, 1963 and particularly, Article 137 thereof (residuary 
 article providing for applications, where no limitation period is otherwise 
 

 provided for), applies to a rectification application to the CLB under Section 111(4) , and two, what is the starting point of limitation - whether 
 it is the date of execution of the purported transfer documents or the date 
 of knowledge as claimed by the Petitioner. 8. The applicability of the Limitation Act generally to proceedings 
 before the CLB depends on the central question as to whether the CLB is a 

 "Court" within the meaning of Section 3 read with Sections 4 and 5 of that 
 Act. The proposition that the Limitation Act only applies to proceedings 
 before 'Courts' is not seriously contested by the Respondents. What the 
 Respondents submit is that the CLB is indeed a 'court' within the meaning ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:19 ::: Chittewan/sg 12/31 cal41-15.doc

 of the Limitation Act . The Supreme Court in Kerala State Electricity 
 Board vs. T.P. Kunthaliumma1 , whilst analysing the provisions of Article 

 
 181 of the old Limitation Act (the 1908 Act) and Article 137 of the present 
 Act (the 1963 Act), both of which are residual entries, has affirmed that 

 
 the words "any other applications" under Article 137 do not imply only 
 applications under the Civil Procedure Code other than those mentioned in 
 Part I of the third division; that any other application under Article 137 would be a petition or an application under any Act, but it has to be an 
 application to a 'court'. The Court stated its conclusion in the following 
 words : 9. Let us now consider what is meant by a 'court', or specifically, a 

 'civil court', in this context. The word 'court' is not defined under the Limitation Act . Courts are established by the State for administration of 
 justice. It is a generic expression and in the context in which it occurs, may 
 mean a 'body or organization' invested with the power or authority to 

 decide disputes between the subjects of the state or the State and its 
 subjects. But there is a well-known distinction between 'courts' and 
 'tribunals', both of whom are required to decide matters involving a 
 1 (1976) 4 Supreme Court Cases 634 ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:19 ::: Chittewan/sg 13/31 cal41-15.doc

 decision on the rights and obligations of the parties before them and act 
 judicially, i.e. fairly and impartially and in accordance with law. Then there 

 
 are judicial as well as quasi-judicial tribunals. A mere duty to act judicially, 
 either expressly imposed or arising by necessary implication by the nature 

 
 of duties to be performed whilst so acting, does not of itself make a 
 tribunal - whether judicial or quasi-judicial - a 'court' (See Ramrao vs. 
 Narayan2 ). The distinction between a 'court' and a 'tribunal' is explained 

 
 by the Supreme Court in Kihota Hollohon vs. Zachilhu3 by quoting 
 Hidayatullah, J. in Harinagar Sugar Mills Ltd. vs. Shyam Sunder 
 Jhunjhunwala4 in the following words: The expression 'court' used in different Acts has been 
 interpreted by the Supreme Court and various High Courts in a number of 

 cases. In Union of India vs. R. Gandhi 5 the Supreme Court explained the 
 term 'courts' thus: 2 AIR 1969 Supreme Court 724
 3 AIR 1993 Supreme Court 412
 4 AIR 1961 Supreme Court 1669 (V 48 C 315)
 5 (2010) 11 Supreme Court Cases 1 ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:19 ::: Chittewan/sg 14/31 cal41-15.doc

 that is for exercise of the judicial power the State to maintain and 
 uphold the rights, to punish wrongs and to adjudicate upon 
 disputes. Tribunals on the other hand are special alternative 

 
 institutional mechanisms, usually brought into existence by or 
 under a statute to decide disputes arising with reference to that 
 particular statute, or to determine controversies arising out of any 

 
 administrative law. Courts refer to civil courts, criminal courts 
 and the High Courts. Tribunals can be either private tribunals 
 (Arbitral Tribunals), or tribunals constituted under the 
 Constitution (Speaker or the Chairman acting under Para 6(1) of 
 the Tenth Schedule) or tribunals authorised by the Constitution 

 
 (Administrative Tribunals under Article 323-A and tribunals for 
 other matters under Article 323-B ) or statutory tribunals which 
 are created under a statute (Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, 
 Debt Recovery Tribunals and Consumer Fora). Some Tribunals are 

 
 manned exclusively by Judicial Officers (Rent Tribunals, Motor 
 Accidents Claims Tribunal, Labour Courts and Industrial 
 Tribunals). Other statutory tribunals have judicial and technical 
 
 members (Administrative Tribunals, TDSAT, Competition 
 Appellate Tribunal, Consumer Fora, Cyber Appellate Tribunal, 
 etc.)" Our Court in a Full Bench decision in the case of Gangwani 
 and Co. vs. Mrs. Saraswati wd/o Maniram Banewar 6 put the matter 
 thus : 6 2001(3) Mh.L.J. 6 ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 16/31 cal41-15.doc

 Relying on various decisions on the point, our Court held that 
 the word 'Court' used in Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure is used 

 
 as meaning only a civil court in the normal hierarchy of Courts and that the 
 Commissioner appointed under Section 20 of the Workmen's Compensation 

 
 Act discharges functions and powers as a tribunal and is not a civil court. 10. Apart from the case of Union of India Vs. R. Gandhi (supra), 

 
 the decisions of Allahabad and Andhra Pradesh High Courts respectively in Prakash Timbers Pvt Ltd. Vs. Smt. Sushma Shingla 7 and RDF Power 
 Projects Ltd. Vs. M. Muralikrishna8 , have considered the position of the 

 
 CLB and held that it is a tribunal and not a court. These decisions have 
 
 ruled that though the CLB has trappings of a court, its powers are confined 
 only to the provisions of the Companies Act in that behalf and exercised in 
 
 only specific matters provided therein; that all members of the board are 
 not judicial members, but there are technical members; that sub-section (4-
 D) of S.10 of the Act and Regulation 47 are deeming clauses treating the 
 

 Board as a Court for a limited purpose; that matters which are not within 
 

 the jurisdiction of the Board are decided by the High Court or the District 
 Court as provided under Section 10 and other provisions of the Act; that 
 the residue goes before ordinary civil courts or some other competent 

 authority; and that considering the scope, function and special jurisdiction 
 conferred on it, the Board can said to be only a Tribunal and not a Court. 11. Mr. Mukherjee, learned Senior Counsel for the Respondents, 
 submitted that the expression 'Court' appearing in the Limitation Act, 1963 would include all bodies which discharge curial functions and thus include 
 7 AIR 1996 Allahabad 262
 8 2005 Company Cases Vol.124 Pg.184 ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 17/31 cal41-15.doc

 the CLB as a judicial body performing a curial function under Section 111 of the Act, which was originally with the High Court under Section 155 

 
 prior to the amendment to the Act. He relied on the Supreme Court 
 decisions in Canara Bank Vs. Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. 9, P. Sarathy Vs. State Bank of India 10 and our Court's decision in Raju 
 Grover vs. Kalati Constructions Pvt. Ltd. 11 in support of his submission. 12. In Canara Bank 's case (supra), the Supreme Court was 
 considering the question as to whether or not the word 'court' used in Section 9A of the Special Courts (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions 

 
 in Securities) Act, 1992 included the CLB exercising powers under Section 
 
 111 of the Companies Act. Section 9A dealt with the jurisdiction, powers 
 and authority of a Special Court constituted under that Act. It inter alia 
 
 provided that on and from the commencement of that Act, every suit, 
 claim or other legal proceedings (other than appeal) pending before any 
 court answering the description under Section 9-A shall stand transferred 
 

 to the Special Court. The Supreme Court, after considering the case law on 
 

 the subjects, held as follows : 9 1995 Supp (3) Supreme Court Cases 81
 10 AIR 2000 Supreme Court 2023
 11 Company Appeal No.12/15 in Company Petition No.6/14 ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 18/31 cal41-15.doc

 The Court, accordingly, held the CLB as being covered within 

 
 the expression 'court' for the purposes of Section 9-A. There were special 
 circumstances which warranted such interpretation under that Act. The 

 
 Court considered the purpose of the enactment. The Act was preceded by 
 a huge scam which had hit the securities market between July 1991 and 

 
 May 1992 resulting from a systematic and deliberate abuse of the system 
 by unscrupulous elements. Having regard to the enormity and 
 ramifications of the scam, a special forum was created for deciding all 

 
 matters and claims arising out of transactions of the period. These 
 circumstances and steps taken to deal with them required to ascribe a 
 
 broader meaning to the word 'court' so as to suppress the mischief and 
 advance the remedy. The following paragraph from the judgment in 
 
 Canara Bank explains the position : Such is not the position with a general statute like Limitation 
 Act . There is nothing in the statute or its context to ascribe a broader 
 meaning to the expression 'court' used in it so as to include within it all 

 
 courts and tribunals dealing with curial or judicial matters and thereby 
 include the CLB within it. 13. In P. Sarathy 's case (supra), the Supreme Court was dealing 
 
 with the question as to whether the expression 'court' in Section 14 of the 
 Limitation Act includes only 'civil courts'. Section 14 allows exclusion of 
 
 time of proceeding bona fide in a court without jurisdiction for 
 computation of limitation period. The Court held that Section 14 did not 
 speak of a 'civil court' and that any authority or tribunal having the 
 

 trappings of a court would be a 'court' within its meaning. Again, here the 
 

 context is very clear. What is important for the purposes of Section 14 is 
 bona fide prosecution of a civil proceeding before a forum having trappings 
 of court but without the jurisdiction of the court and not pendency of a 

 matter before a civil court. Such is not the case with Section 3 read with Sections 4 and 5 and Article 137 of the Limitation Act . Here, we already 
 have a decision of the Supreme Court directly on the point, namely, the 

 decision in Kerala State Electricity Board (supra) which holds that any 
 other application under Article 137 has to be an application to a 'court' for 
 the reason that Sections 4 and 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 speak of courts 
 and Article 137 would apply to any petition or application filed under any ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 20/31 cal41-15.doc

 Act before a 'civil court'. 14. In Raju Grover (supra), this Court has not really considered 
 the question of applicability of Article 137 of the Schedule to the Limitation 

 
 Act to a petition under Section 111 before the CLB. That point was not 
 argued before the court in that case and the case is no authority for the 
 proposition advanced by the Respondents here. 15. In the premises, the CLB is not a 'court' for the purposes of Article 137 read with Sections 3 , 4 and 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and 

 
 there is no particular limitation period for an application under Section 
 
 111(4) of the Companies Act. The impugned order holding against the 
 Petitioner on the ground of limitation, thus, clearly suffers from an error of 
 
 law. 16. That is not to say that there are no considerations of delay and 
 

 laches for granting reliefs under Section 111(4) of the Act. The relief to be 
 

 granted under Section 111 is in the nature of a discretionary relief. 
 Exercise of such discretion could certainly be affected by inordinate and 
 unexplained delay, and laches. Any such delay may render granting of the 

 relief of rectification inequitable; there could be equities arisen in favour of 
 other parties as a result of such delay; such delay may give rise to a case of 
 acquiescence, waiver or estoppal. These aspects would be for the CLB to 

 assess and would depend on the peculiar facts and circumstances of each 
 case. In the facts of the present case, there is no warrant for holding that 
 there is any inordinate or unexplained delay for any reason disentitling the 
 Petitioner to the discretionary relief of rectification of the register. There ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 21/31 cal41-15.doc

 are no equities arising in favour of the Respondents as a result of any delay. 
 So also, there is no case of acquiescence, waiver of estoppel against the 

 
 Petitioner. In fact, as I have particularly noted Bellwood, if one takes the 
 correct date of accrual of the course of action in the present case, there is 

 
 no inordinate or unexplainable delay or laches. 17. That takes us to the question of the time of accrual of a cause 

 
 of action for claiming rectification of register. The cause of action, in a 
 case of fraud or misrepresentation in the matter of transfer of shares, 
 would naturally arise when the fraud or misrepresentation is noticed by the 

 
 aggrieved party. Even here, the CLB has clearly erred in the present matter. The impugned order proceeds on the footing that the cause of action has 
 arisen in the present case on the date of execution of the purported 
 
 documents of transfer by the Petitioner. The Petitioner's case before the 
 CLB was that she had not signed the alleged documents of transfer and in 
 any event, her signatures were obtained by misrepresentation and without 
 

 knowledge on her part of the real nature of the transaction. The 
 

 Petitioner's case was that the execution of documents, which was said to be 
 a fraudulent act, came to light when the Petitioner took inspection of 
 records in 2011. That is when the fraud or misrepresentation was noticed 

 and that is when the cause of action for rectification arose. The CLB 
 considered a so-called concession by learned Counsel for the Petitioner at 
 the hearing in that the signatures themselves were said to be not seriously 

 disputed, or "impliedly accepted", as the CLB puts it. The CLB says that 
 Counsel "confined his arguments by saying that the Petitioner was having no 
 knowledge of having signed these documents". Though, it is highly debatable 
 whether the record of the case bears out such concession, such concession ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 22/31 cal41-15.doc

 certainly does not lend itself to the further conclusion drawn by the CLB on 
 the basis of such concession that the Petitioner had knowledge of having 

 
 signed the documents. It is one thing to not to dispute the signatures and 
 quite another to say that the signatory actually knew that he was signing a 

 
 document of transfer of shares, especially in the face of a specific case in 
 the alternative, which was pressed at the Bar, that the Petitioner signed the 
 documents inadvertently in routine course or more seriously, the 

 
 signatures were obtained by misrepresentation and without letting the 
 Petitioner know the real nature of the transaction. The CLB has not come 
 to this conclusion on the basis of any analysis of evidence, but simply 

 
 deduced it from the so-called concession of Counsel. That is clearly 
 
 impermissible and has led to miscarriage of justice. 18. We may now take up the case of suppression of material 
 documents and facts, which is the other ground on which the petition was 
 dismissed by the CLB. The CLB found that the various documents executed 
 

 by the Petitioner, which purported to transfer the subject shares and which 
 

 were used by the Company to effect the transfer, were deliberately not 
 disclosed by the Petitioner; and that such non-disclosure amounted to 
 suppression of material documents and facts, calling for dismissal of the 

 petition. The documents were : (i) Letter dated 6.7. 2007 addressed by the 
 Petitioner to the Board of Trustees of N.S. Trust tendering her resignation 
 as a trustee, (ii) Declaration of relinquishment executed by the Petitioner 

 on 7.7.2007 in respect of all benefits in the income and corpus of the trust, (iii) Letter dated 7.7.2007 addressed by the Petitioner to Dr. Kalyani and 
 SNI inter alia requesting the latter to act as trustees and without 
 considering her as a beneficiary, (iv) Letter dated 10.7.2007 addressed by ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 23/31 cal41-15.doc

 Dr. Kalyani inter alia co-opting Gaurishankar and Rohini on the Board of 
 Trustees and nominating Rohini to be the chairperson of the Board, (v)Resignation dated 22.6.2007 by DGK resigning from the trust, (vi) 
 Minutes of Board of Trustees dated 12.7.2007 accepting the resignation of 

 
 the Petitioner and DGK, and (vii) Letter dated 20.7.2007 addressed by SNI 
 to the Board of Trustees conveying his consent to distribute/transfer the 
 income/corpus to the sole beneficiary of the trust, viz. Dr. Kalyani. Apart 

 
 from these documents, it is said that the share certificate which bears the 
 signature of the Petitioner shows her knowledge of (i) transfer of shares to 
 Dr. Kalyani as far back as on 17.9.2007 and (ii) further transfer from Dr. 

 
 Kalyani to Gaurishankar by a registered gift deed on 22.11.2007. It is 
 
 submitted that suppression of these facts and documents justified the 
 dismissal of the petition. 19. The central point in this discussion (which also bears on the 
 question of limitation, as noted above, from the standpoint of starting of 
 

 the limitation period) is knowledge of these documents and facts on the 
 

 part of the Petitioner. This is evidently a question of fact. As I have noticed 
 above, there is no proof of such knowledge emanating from the record 
 save and except the fact that these documents are purportedly signed by 

 the Petitioner. As I have noticed above, the conclusion of the CLB on such 
 knowledge is simply based on a so-called concession at the bar that the 
 signatures of the Petitioner per se are not seriously disputed. I have already 

 held above that no knowledge can be deduced from such concession, 
 assuming without admitting the factum of such concession, in face of the 
 alternative case pressed by the Petitioner's Counsel about the signatures 
 being obtained on a misrepresentation and without being aware of the ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 24/31 cal41-15.doc

 nature of the documents. Here we need to consider the submission of 
 learned Counsel for the Respondents on the plea of non est factum - denial 

 
 or disowning of execution - for want of knowledge of the nature or 
 contents of the document executed. The submission is that if the document 

 
 is in fact signed, the burden of establishing a plea of non est factum is on 
 the signatory seeking to disown the document and that party must show 
 that in signing the document, he acted with reasonable care; he cannot 

 
 take advantage of his own wrong, say, of not reading the contents carefully. 
 It is submitted that after having actually signed the documents, the 
 Petitioner cannot plead ignorance of the nature or contents of the 

 
 documents. 20. The Supreme Court in the case of Smt. Bismillah Vs. 
 
 Janeshwar Prasad12, considered the contours of the common law defence 
 of non est factum in the following words : 15. This decision was referred to with approval by this Court 
 
 in Ningawwa Vs. Byrappa . It was observed : (SCR pp.80-01)

 "It is well established that a contract or other transaction 
 
 induced or tainted by fraud is not void, but only voidable at 
 the option of the party defrauded. Until it is avoided, the 
 transaction is valid, so that third parties without notice of 
 the fraud may in the meantime acquire rights and interests 
 in the matter which they may enforce against the party 
 

 defrauded." This would be a voidable transaction. But the position 
 was held to be different if the fraud or misrepresentation 
 related to the character of the document. This court held : 16. However the distinction based on the character of the 
 document and the contents of the document was considered 
 
 unsatisfactory. The distinction based on the character and 
 contents of a document is not without its difficulties in its 
 practical application; for, in conceivable cases the 'character' 
 of the document may itself depend on its contents. The 
 
 difficulty is to be resolved on a case by case basis on the facts 
 of each case and not by appealing to any principle of general 
 validity applicable to all cases. Chitty on Contracts ["General 
 Principles" 25th edn, para 343, page 194] has this 
 

 observation to make on Sauders decision : In the instant case prima facie appellant seems to 
 proceed on the premises that she cannot ignore the sales but 
 that the sales require to be set aside before she is entitled to 
 possession and other consequential reliefs." Chittewan/sg 27/31 cal41-15.doc 21. No doubt, as explained by the Supreme court in Bismillah's 

 
 case, the defence of non est factum is not to be lightly allowed where a 

 
 person of full age and capacity has signed a document containing 
 contractual terms. It is also true that the burden would always lie on the 
 person raising a plea of non est factum. But it is equally true that as when 

 
 such plea is raised what the Court has to consider is whether or not the 
 person signing the document had made a fundamental mistake as to the 
 character and effect of the document; whether there was a radical 

 
 difference between what he signed and what he thought he was signing. In 
 
 the present case, the plea was based on the allegation that the Petitioner 
 thought that she was actually signing routine administrative papers along 
 
 with others, which were brought to her by her own daughter-in-law, who 
 was with the consent of the family members managing the affairs of the 
 family companies. What the Petitioner actually signed were the documents 
 

 purporting to effect transfer of ownership of the shares which gave the 
 

 Petitioner and her co-trustees a controlling interest in the companies. 
 There was a fundamental difference between what she signed and what 
 she thought she was signing. The CLB had to actually consider whether 

 this case was made out. Instead of considering that, the CLB appears to 
 have simply based its conclusion on the so-called concession of Counsel 
 about signatures of the Petitioner. The reasoning of the CLB goes like this : 22. The error committed by the CLB in not considering the plea of 
 non est factum simply on the basis of a so-called admission of the 
 Petitioner's signatures on the subject documents, without going into the 
 

 defence of fraud and misrepresentation, is an error of law which has 
 

 vitiated the impugned order. 23. The same can be said even of the Respondents' plea of deemed 

 knowledge of the registered document (i.e., the gift deed). Deemed 
 knowledge may at best support a case of binding nature of the document 
 but cannot sustain a plea of actual knowledge and deliberate suppression 

 based on such actual knowledge. 24. Coming now to the merits of the determination by the CLB of 
 the illegality of the transfer itself under Section 111 read with Section 108 ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 29/31 cal41-15.doc

 of the Act, it is pertinent to note that there are two transfers in the present 
 case- one, from the four joint holders, namely, Dr. Kalyani, Sulochana, DGK 

 
 and SNI, to Dr. Kalyani as a sole holder and two, from Dr. Kalyani to 
 Gaurishankar. These transfers were admittedly accomplished on different 

 
 dates. The share certificate placed on record shows in the memorandum of 
 transfers overleaf that the first transfer in favour of Dr. Kalyani was effected 
 on 17 September 2007, whilst the second transfer from Dr. Kalyani to 

 
 Gaurishankar was effected on 22 November 2007. There is no explanation, 
 however, on record as to how the names of Sulochana and DGK were 
 replaced by the names of Rohini and Gaurishankar as 'holders' of the shares 

 
 on the face of the share certificate. No such transfer is recorded in the 
 
 memorandum of transfers overleaf. There is no share transfer form for 
 transfer of shares between the original holders to the new four joint 
 
 holders (said to be the co-trustees of the trust after the purported 
 resignations of Sulochana and DGK and co-option of Rohini and 
 Gaurishankar in their place), as required by Section 108 of the Act. Apart 
 

 from this glaring lapse, the CLB has also noted the following admitted 
 

 position for holding the transfers to be in contravention of Section 108 : Based on these facts and applying the law laid down by the 
 Supreme Court in the case of Mannalal Khetan Vs. Kedar Nath Khetan 13 

 
 and followed by our Court in Shirish Finance and Investment (P) Ltd. Vs. 
 M. Shreenivamlu Reddy14 , holding that execution of valid transfer deeds 
 within the meaning of Section 108 is a mandatory requirement of a valid 

 
 transfer of shares, the CLB held the impugned transfers to be invalid and 
 
 not in compliance with the provisions of Section 108. There is no error of 
 law to be found in this analysis and the finding arrived at by the CLB on 
 
 the basis thereof. 25. For the reasons stated above, the Company Appeal of 
 

 Sulochana deserves to be allowed and the cross appeal/objections of the 
 

 Respondents deserves to be disallowed. 26. In the premises, the following order is passed: 13 1977 Company Cases Vol.47 Pg.185
 14 2002 (1) Bom CR 419 ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 ::: Chittewan/sg 31/31 cal41-15.doc (iii) In view of the disposal of Company Appeal (L) No.41 of 2015, 

 
 Company Application (L) No.60 of 2015 does not survive and the same is 
 disposed of accordingly. (iv) There shall be no order as to costs. 27. Learned Counsel for the Respondents applies for stay of this 
 order. On his application, the order is stayed for a period of eight weeks 
 from today. However, during the period of the stay, as a condition of such 

 
 stay, the Respondents shall maintain status-quo in respect of the shares as 
 
 well as the shareholding of the first Respondent Company in all these 
 appeals. (S.C. GUPTE, J.) ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2016 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2016 00:06:20 :::