The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is considering new regulations to moderate “perverse” online content and will put the draft rules up for public consultation, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said during a hearing before a Supreme Court bench led by Chief Justice Surya Kant and Justice Joymalya Bagchi. The case was taken up after Ranveer Allahabadia’s controversial viral statement on India’s Got Latent comedy show, which led host Samay Raina to remove the entire show and all its episodes from YouTube.

For context, this comes after the Supreme Court asked the Solicitor General to draft a regulatory proposal to prevent the publication of content that is offensive to “well-known moral standards of our society.” Calling YouTubers broadcasters, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta described the India’s Got Latent situation as “perverse,” adding that “Something must be done about user-generated content (UGC). There is some lacuna [gap] in what is called UGC.”

“I can have my own YouTube channel, I can have my own program. I am not controlled by any of the statutory regulations or at least the self-imposed regulations. It’s something very strange that I create my own channel, I create my own platform, and I am not accountable to anyone, I am not answerable to anyone… I would like to have a discussion with you,” said Mehta, referring to the possible policy regulation governing online speech for influencers and social media content creators.

When Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing disabled people, argued back citing the Shreya Singhal judgment and the risk of restrictions on free speech, Mehta said, “Freedom of speech is a valuable fundamental right, but it cannot lead to perversity or obscenity. The difficulty is that young boys and girls of 10 years are more technologically savvy than we are. They have easy access to all this. We cannot do anything and everything under the guise of freedom of expression.”

Mehta stated that the ministry had filed a note with the court indicating that it was still considering how to address user-generated content and had not yet proposed any measures in this regard. However, he noted that the ministry had proposed guidelines for broadcasters and digital content.

Justice Suryakant questioned the extent of self-regulation when it comes to sensitive matters such as national security or content perceived as “anti-national.”

“The regulations also govern intermediaries. And the question, which is really troubling us, is where the content is perceived as ‘anti-national.’ Where the content is perceived as disruptive of societal normalcy, will there be a self-regulating responsibility of the intermediaries to curate those materials and not permit circulation?” he asked.

When Bhushan argued that terms like “anti-national” are too broad and vague, Justice Kant asked, “An application which shows a part of sovereign India is not a part of India, will that be permitted to be said?”

Bhushan responded, “Suppose somebody says that there is a dispute between China and India as to whether this part is part of India or part of China, or whether, let’s say, Sikkim was rightly annexed or not. Therefore, the question will arise: will somebody writing an academic piece about the history of the dispute regarding this territory be regarded as anti-national?”

“Sometimes it can be,” Attorney General R. Venkataramani interjected, attending the hearing virtually.

During the hearing, Solicitor General Mehta referred to the September 2024 Bombay High Court judgment in which Justice A. S. Chandurkar struck down portions of the IT Amendment Rules, 2021 that sought to create a government-appointed fact-checking unit empowered to flag and remove “false or misleading” online content. Citing that ruling, Mehta argued for a more limited mechanism, one that would not delete content but would allow the government to place a disclaimer indicating that a particular news item or post was factually incorrect.

Mehta said, “For example, RBI. There are fake RBI sites. They say that whenever you receive this particular message, open the link and give your bank details. So the government would say that this is a fake ID. Don’t fall prey to it. We cannot do it now, as it has been quashed by the High Court. I am just bringing that, I am not arguing it.”

Advocate Prashant Bhushan reiterated the necessity for wider public consultation. “That is absolutely essential, because in a matter so sensitive as this, there needs to be proper, widespread public consultations with the relevant stakeholders,” he said.

The advocate representing the News Broadcasters and Digital Association added, “There’s a brief note the Ministry has filed in which they say that digital news and current affairs are still under consideration. So my concern is that before anything is brought out… Last time, you also said the news and digital news broadcasters should be consulted. We should be consulted.”

“A book, painting, or other creation works differently because people have a choice. Physical restrictions can still apply, and the material is not always open to the public. But when you turn on your phone, and something appears that you never wanted, or never wanted your children to see, and it is forced on you, what should happen then?” Justice Kant asked.

If any content contains adult content, Justice Surya Kant suggested that advanced parental controls and warnings can be used, which may not impact freedom of speech. He also suggested age verification through official government-issued ID cards.

The advocate representing the Indian Broadcast and Digital Foundation said, “Age classifications and warnings are already in place because, for the broadcasters and online curated content providers I represent, there are existing guidelines,” referring to the Digital Media Ethics Code.

She also noted that the code, issued in 2021, was currently sub judice, as it has been challenged in various High Courts through 15 writ petitions. The Union had filed a transfer petition before the Supreme Court, which, on 22 March 2024, transferred all the petitions to the Delhi High Court. The matter is scheduled to come up there on 8 January 2026.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event