% 25.11.2019 1. These proceedings emanate from a complaint, dated 9 th
September, 2008, submitted by Ms. „M‟ (whose name is being
withheld, for the sake of propriety), an M. Phil. Student in the
Department of Hindi, University of Delhi, wherein she alleged that she
had been sexually harassed by the petitioner who, at the time, was a
Professor in the said Department. The complaint was referred to the
Apex Complaints Committee (hereinafter referred to as "ACC"),
under Ordinance XV-D of the Ordinances governing the University of
Delhi (hereinafter referred to as "the University"). The ACC found the
allegation of sexual harassment, against the petitioner, to be proved,
and forwarded its findings, along with the recommendation that the
petitioner be demoted with reduction of salary, and be debarred from WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 1 of 58 (i) holding any administrative position for the remainder of his
service, (ii) membership of any selection committee in the University
and (iii) appointment as research supervisor, in the Department of
Hindi, in future, to the Executive Council (hereinafter referred to as
"EC"), through the Vice-Chancellor. A copy of the findings and
recommendations of the ACC were also furnished to the petitioner,
who submitted his response, thereto, on 20 th May, 2009. The EC, vide
its Resolution dated 26th June, 2009, opined that the petitioner had
committed a serious act of misconduct and, accordingly, issued a
Show Cause Notice, dated 29th June, 2009, to the petitioner, requiring
him to show cause as to why his services be not disengaged. The reply
of the petitioner, to the said Show Cause Notice, was referred back to
the ACC, which forwarded its report, containing its comments and
observations on the Show Cause Notice dated 29th June, 2009, and the
response of the petitioner thereto, to the EC, on 14th October, 2009. 2. In the interregnum, the Supreme Court, on 12th January, 2010,
passed an order in Delhi University v. Bidyug Chakraborty1 ,
acceding to the request of the respondent in that case - who had also
been charged with sexual harassment - for permission to cross
examine witnesses produced by the University. While doing so, the
Supreme Court permitted the respondent Bidyug Chakraborty, before
it, to submit a questionnaire, to which responses would be sought,
from the witnesses. Following this precedent, the petitioner was also
directed to submit a questionnaire, to which the response of „M‟ would
be sought. The petitioner did so. However, as „M‟ did not respond to 1 SLP (C) 23060/2009 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 2 of 58 the questions, or cooperate, the University wrote, on 12th May, 2010,
to the petitioner, informing him that, owing to non-co-operation by
„M‟, in the process of cross-examination, the proceedings were closed.
Challenging this decision, „M‟ moved this Court, by way of WP (C)
8208/2010. During the pendency of the said writ petition, however,
the impugned Memorandum, dated 4th or 8th July, 2011, came to be
issued, compulsorily retiring the petitioner from the services of the
University. In view thereof, WP (C) 8208/2010, insofar as it sought
relief against the petitioner, did not survive, as noted by this Court in
its order dated 5th July, 2011, whereby the said writ petition was
disposed of. 3. The impugned Memorandum, dated 4th/8th July, 2011 states that
the ACC forwarded a report, to the EC, vide letter dated 31st August,
2010 and that, having considered the said report, the EC, accepting the
findings therein, resolved that the petitioner be compulsorily retired. 4. Aggrieved by the decision to compulsorily retire him from
service, the petitioner has moved this Court, by means of the present
writ petition 5. Having thus presented the factual matrix, in which the present
writ petition arises, in conspectus, a more detailed narrative, thereof,
follows. Facts 6. On 9th September, 2008, „M‟, an M.Phil student in the
Department of Hindi in the University, addressed a complaint, to the
Chairman, Apex Committee, Women Development Centre in the
University, alleging that, over a period of one and a half to two years
prior thereto, the petitioner, along with the erstwhile Head of the
Department of Hindi Prof. Ramesh Gautam and the then Head of the
Department Prof. Sudhish Pachauri, had been exploiting her
"physically, mentally and educationally". It was specifically alleged,
by „M‟, in her complaint, that, during their journey to the University,
and back home, the petitioner used to pass sexually charged remarks.
She further alleged that, at the Metro station, the petitioner, on finding
himself alone with her in the elevator, used to subject her to forcible
unwelcome physical contact. (The complaint sets out, in somewhat
lurid detail, the specifics of the alleged physical advances, by the
petitioner to „M‟, but any detailed reference thereto is, for the
purposes of this judgment, being eschewed.) She also alleged that,
while travelling with her in his car, the petitioner submitted her to
inappropriate physical contact, which she sought to rebuff. Over a
period of time, according to „M‟, the intensity of the physical
advances, of the petitioner towards her, progressively increased, and
the petitioner also threatened „M‟ that, were she to resist his advances,
he would ensure that she failed her examination. According to the
complaint, she, out of fear, "repeatedly engaged" the petitioner "in
sexually demeaning talks". The complaint also referred to various text
messages, addressed by the petitioner, to her, which, according to her, WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 4 of 58 were sexually coloured. Alleging that, in these advances, the petitioner
was assisted by Prof. Ramesh Gautam and Prof. Sudhish Pachauri, the
complaint requested that adequate punishment be meted out to them. 7. The Policy against Sexual Harassment, of the University, is
codified in Ordinance XV-D of the Ordinances governing the
University. Sub-clause (viii), of Clause 2 of Ordinance XV-D defines
"sexual harassment", in the following terms: 8. The redressal mechanism, in the University, to deal with cases
of alleged sexual harassment, consists of a three-tier hierarchical
structure, the College Complaints Committee/University Units
Complaints Committee (UUCC), followed by the Apex Complaints
Committee (ACC), followed by the Executive Council (EC). 9. The complaint, dated 9th September, 2008, of „M‟, in the present
case, was marked, by the Vice-Chancellor, to the ACC, which
convened a Sexual Harassment Complaints Committee (hereinafter
referred to as "SHCC") to enquire into the complaint. Accordingly, on
14th October, 2008, the Member-Secretary of the SHCC wrote,
directing him to appear before the SHCC on 21st October, 2008 and
state his position with respect to the allegations leveled by „M‟. 10. The petitioner responded, vide communication dated 18th
October, 2008, addressed to the Member Secretary, SHCC, requesting
that a copy of the complaint, of „M‟, be provided to him, so that he
could reply thereto. 11. The SHCC responded, vide communication dated 27th October,
2008, informing that it was not empowered to provide, to the
petitioner, a copy of the complaint of „M‟. 12. On 8th December, 2008, „M‟ wrote to the Vice Chancellor,
complaining that members of the SHCC had misbehaved with her and
requesting, therefore, that the inquiry, on her complaint dated 9 th
September, 2008, be transferred to the ACC. 13. Apparently acting on the aforesaid request of „M‟, the Vice
Chancellor transferred her complaint, dated 9th September, 2008, to
the ACC. The Sub-Committee constituted by the ACC, to enquire into
the complaint, wrote, on 24th February, 2009, to the petitioner,
informing him of the transfer of the complaint to the ACC and
requiring him to appear before the Sub-Committee on 4th March, 2009,
with any material that he would seek to rely upon. A copy of the
complaint of „M‟ was enclosed with the aforesaid communicated
dated 24th February, 2009. 14. The petitioner responded, to the aforesaid communication dated
24th February, 2009, vide his letter, dated 4th March, 2009, addressed
to the ACC, wherein he requested for being supplied the printouts of
the SMS exchanges, between „M‟ and himself, to which reference was
contained in the complaint, as well as any other document or material
furnished by „M‟, in support of her complaint. He also requested for
permission to place oral and documentary evidence, on record, in his
support, and for permission to cross examine „M‟ and her witnesses. 15. The petitioner also objected to the complaint being entertained
by the ACC, as, according to the prescribed procedure, the UUCC was
the designated authority to deal with such complaint. He, therefore,
expressed his discomfiture on the complaint, which was being
examined by the UUCC, being withdrawn from the UUCC and placed
before the ACC. He also submitted that, by this change of Committee,
he had lost a valuable right of appeal to the ACC. 16. Apart from this, the petitioner also advanced the following
submissions, in his defence, in the aforesaid communication dated 4 th
March, 2009: Acceptance of the version of „M‟ would necessarily imply that
 she was waiting at the station, till the petitioner reached there.
 This, even by itself, belied the possibility of the petitioner
 having subjected „M‟ to any unwelcome advance. Similarly, the
 classes of „M‟ ended at 10.00 a.m., whereas the petitioner‟s
 classes were scheduled at 2.00 pm. (vii) The allegation that, on the way back from the University
 to their respective residences, the petitioner subjected „M‟ to
 sexual harassment, therefore, implied that „M‟ was waiting in
 the University till it was time for the petitioner to return home.
 This, too, belied the allegation of sexual harassment. (viii) In fact, it was „M‟ who had made sexual overtures
 towards the petitioner. She had personally approached to the
 petitioner and addressed indecent queries to him. Though the WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 9 of 58 petitioner rebuked her, he was of the view that, as an immature
 student, „M‟ was probably suffering from infatuation. (ix) „M‟ used to frequently contact the petitioner,
 telephonically, and indulge in indecent and provocative
 conversation. The petitioner admitted that, "due to the influence
 of ambience and provocation thrown by her", the petitioner also
 participated in such indecent conversation. He characterized
 these occasions as "moments of indiscretion" and admitted that,
 on certain such occasions, he used to call „M‟, and they
 indulged in sexually charged conversation. He also admitted
 having sent her provocative text messages, on these occasions,
 and expressed regret, submitting that these acts of indiscretion
 could not justifiably be regarded as acts of sexual harassment,
 as he had been provoked into acting thus. (x) If the petitioner had, actually, been subjecting „M‟ to
 sexual harassment, she could easily have avoided his company.
 That she did not do so itself indicated that the acts of the
 petitioner were not "unwelcome". (xi) The allegation that the petitioner used to forcibly drive
 „M‟ around in his car, and that, on these occasions, he subjected
 her to sexual advances, was denied. (xii) „M‟ had admitted, in her complaint, that she had recorded
 the allegedly indecent conversation, between the petitioner and WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 10 of 58 herself. Were the conversation to be unwelcome, there was no
 reason for „M‟ to record it. (xiii) That the petitioner did not subject „M‟ to any unwelcome
 sexual harassment was also borne out by the admission, in the
 complaint, that, even if such alleged acts of sexual harassment
 had been perpetuated, by the petitioner towards her, she
 approached him to help her in her studies. In view the above facts, the petitioner submitted that it could not be
alleged that he had "sexually harassed" „M‟ within the meaning of the
expression as defined in the explanation to Clause 2 (viii) of
Ordinance XV-D. 17. On 4th March, 2009, the petitioner appeared before the Sub-
Committee of the ACC, and reiterated the contents of the aforesaid
response, dated 4th March, 2009, submitted by him. 18. On 18th March, 2009, the ACC wrote to the petitioner,
informing him that the Sub-Committee had framed the following
charges against the petitioner: 19. The petitioner was informed that inquiry would be conducted
into these charges, and was requested to submit, in writing, his
defence thereto, as well as a list of witnesses, on whom he chose to
rely. 20. On receiving the aforesaid communication, dated 18 th March,
2009, informing him of the charges which had been framed against
him by the Sub-Committee of the ACC, the petitioner responded, vide
letter dated 24th March, 2009, addressed to the ACC. He also
reiterated his request to be permitted cross-examination of „M‟. 21. Despite the request contained in the letter dated 4th March,
2009, the petitioner had not been provided the documents annexed to
the complaint, dated 9th September, 2008, of „M‟. He, therefore,
reiterated his request for being furnished all the documents, which
were before the ACC. 22. To a request, made by ACC, to him, to submit a list of
questions, which could be put to „M‟, the petitioner submitted that
such a procedure was no substitute for cross examination of „M‟. Even
so, the petitioner submitted a list of questions, for being put to „M‟. He objected to the summary procedure which was adopted by ACC,
and reiterated his discomfiture at the transfer of the proceedings,
which were earlier being conducted by UUCC, to the ACC. 23. The petitioner further submitted that, if the period during which
„M‟ was a student in the Arts faculty, was taken into account, vis-à-vis
the official duties of the petitioner, the only three days when the
petitioner officially came into contact with „M‟ were 11th March,
2007, 18th March, 2007 and 25th March, 2007. Any allegation of the
petitioner having sexually harassed „M‟, on any other occasion, would
necessarily imply that „M‟ had herself provoked such acts. The
petitioner once again admitted the fact that he had, on certain
indiscreet occasions, indulged in exchange of text messages, of a
sexual nature, with „M‟, but submitted that these were provoked by
„M‟ herself. The petitioner also requested for permission to cross
examine five witnesses, namely, Anil Solanki, Pratibha Solanki, Rasal
Singh, Tek Chand and Sunil Kumar. 24. The ACC responded on the very same day, i.e. 24th March,
2009, which also answered the petitioner‟s earlier communication
dated 4th March, 2009 supra. The letter enclosed all the documents
relating to the complaint, dated 9th September, 2008, of „M‟, stating
that these documents had not been furnished to the petitioner, earlier,
owing to an oversight. The petitioner‟s apprehension that the ACC
was conducting the proceedings in a summary fashion, was sought to
be allayed, by pointing that the ACC was an impartial body, which
would provide every reasonable opportunity, to the petitioner, to WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 13 of 58 present his defence. The petitioner was therefore requested to name
the witnesses whom he sought to cite in support of his stand. 25. The request, of the petitioner, to be permitted to cross examine
„M‟, and her witnesses, was, however, rejected, pointing that
Ordinance XV-D did not permit cross examination either by the
complainant or by the accused. In so far as transfer of the proceedings,
to the ACC was concerned, it was pointed out that, the Vice-
Chancellor had ordered such transfer of the petitioner and the
petitioner was, therefore, directed to communicate directly with the
Vice Chancellor on this issue. 26. The writ petition avers that, though the aforesaid
communication, dated 24th March, 2009, from the ACC, purported to
enclose, therewith, the complete set of documents relating to the
complaint of „M‟, only two pages of SMS communications were, in
fact, enclosed therewith. The said two pages of text message
exchanges, between the petitioner and „M‟, are also on the record of
these proceedings, and a bare glance thereat reveals their nature. 27. The following three examples, of text messages, sent by the
petitioner, to „M‟, in vernacular, on 10th June, 2007 (at 9.47 p.m.), 17th
July, 2007 (at 9.49 p.m.) and 19th July, 2007 (at 3.40 p.m.), may, with
their translations, be reproduced, for ready reference: 17th July, 2007 (at 9.49 p.m.)

 "Khubsurati aur aqlamandi ka ek jagah milna mushqil hota
 hai! Lekin tumne is kahawat ko galat sabit kar diya hai. Bas
 thoda gussa kar do. Kabhi-kabhi samajdari bhi aachi lagi
 hai." Translation: 19th July, 2007 (at 3.40 p.m.),

 "Kahan Khoi hui ho Shakuntala? Kya Soch rahi ho? Dekho
 tumhara Dushyant Kahin bhatak raha hai." Translation: (Shakuntala and Dushyant were the star-crossed couple, who were
separated and met years later, in the poet Kalidasa‟s Sanskrit classic,
"Abhigyan Shakuntalam".) 28. On 30th May, 2009, „M‟ wrote to the ACC, answering the
queries addressed by her, on the basis of the questionnaire submitted
by the petitioner. It is not necessary to enter into the specifics of this
communication. Suffice it to say that „M‟ made pointed allegations, of WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 15 of 58 the petitioner having subjected her to unwelcome conversation of
explicitly sexual nature. 29. On 8th April, 2009, the petitioner wrote to the ACC, submitting
his defence, to the messages, sent by him to „M‟, of which three
relevant messages stand reproduced in para 27 hereinabove. Apropos
these three text messages, the petitioner submitted as under: (ii) Apropos the message sent by him on 17th July, 2007 at
 9.49 p.m. and on 19th July, 2007 at 3.40 p.m., the petitioner
 submitted that, while he could not vouchsafe the contents of the
 SMS, „M‟ used to continuously pester him with requests to send
 her romantic text messages, and used to threaten not to talk to
 her unless and until he sent her text messages, addressing her as
 "Menaka", "Rambha", "Shakuntala" etc.. He further submitted
 that the messages indicated "mutual and consensual exchange
 without any hint of pressure or coercion for sexual favours". (iii) On 1st May, 2009, the petitioner represented to the Vice-
 Chancellor as well as to the ACC, requesting that Prof. Vibha WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 16 of 58 Maurya be not permitted to be a member of the ACC, inquiring
 into the complaint, against him, as he had alleged bias against
 her husband, Professor Abhay Maurya, in his response to the
 complaint of „M‟. 30. The writ petition avers that, at about this time, the petitioner
came to learn that the Sub-Committee, constituted by the ACC, had
submitted its report, regarding the complaint, dated 9th September,
2008, of „M‟, to the ACC, which had deliberated thereon and
forwarded its recommendations, on the said report, to the EC, on 30th
April, 2009. A copy of the said report, dated 30 th April, 2009, of the
ACC, was also made available to the petitioner. 31. A perusal of the report, dated 30th April, 2009, of the Sub-
Committee, as forwarded to the ACC, reveals that a detailed inquiry
was conducted by the Sub-Committee, into the complaint of „M‟. The
Sub-Committee noted that the petitioner had admitted having
telephonic conversation of explicitly sexual nature with „M‟, though,
in his defence, he had sought to contend that these conversations had
been provoked by „M‟. This fact, seen in conjunction with the number
of calls exchanged between the petitioner and „M‟, indicated, in the
opinion of the Sub-Committee, that there existed a close and intimate
relationship of sexual nature between „M‟ and the petitioner. The Sub-
Committee, however, expressed its inability to determine, on the basis
of the available record, whether this relationship was, from the
beginning, entirely consensual, or non-consensual, but chose,
nevertheless, to opine that the issue at stake was not one of consent, WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 17 of 58 but of power. The following findings, from the report of the Sub-
Committee, merit reproduction, in extenso: In the present case, the accused has not produced any
 direct or indirect evidence to show that the complainant had
 taken the initiative to establish the relationship. Moreover,
 there is no evidence to show that the accused took steps to
 discourage or discontinue the relationship with Ms. „M‟ till
 August, 2007. He decided to distance himself only when he
 began to suspect that his telephonic conversations with Ms.
 „M‟ might be getting recorded. Therefore, the complainant‟s contention that she was
 afraid of her result being adversely affected, if she did not
 oblige Prof. Tiwari cannot be dismissed as completely
 unfounded. A teacher does exercise control over evaluation
 of the performance of students in written examinations and
 interviews. This is an essential aspect of the power dynamics
 of teacher-taught relation. It is therefore, extremely important
 that a teacher maintains a friendly and dignified distance from
 the students. The responsibility for ensuring this lies much
 more with the teacher than the students, since a teacher by WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 18 of 58 virtue of his position and age is expected to be more mature
 and responsible than a student. Even if Ms. „M‟ made
 attempts to befriend him, as alleged by Prof. Tiwari, he should
 have taken steps to ensure that the girl become discouraged.
 However, Prof. Tiwari not seem to have taken any such steps. The SC is not convinced by Prof. Tiwari‟s assertion
 that he was simply a victim of the complainant‟s provocative
 overtures since it is not supported by available records. It is
 difficult to believe that a senior teacher like him would allow
 himself to be dragged into such a situation against his will.
 Prof. Tiwari has stated that the recordings of the telephonic
 conversations between him and the complainant will
 substantiate his contention. The complainant was asked about
 such recordings by the SC and was also requested in writing
 to submit the recordings of her conversations with the
 accused, if she had any. However, she denied that any such
 recordings existed." Following the above observations, the Sub-Committee found the
petitioner guilty of sexually harassing „M‟, and of having created a
hostile environment, by his verbal and physical conduct, which was
explicitly sexual in nature. However, the claim, of „M‟, that the
petitioner had victimized her, was found to be unsupported by
evidence. The Sub-Committee expressed its deep concern over the
fact that a senior teacher of the University had entered into an explicit
sexual relationship with a student, and observed that such
relationships vitiated the atmosphere of the University and resulted in
failure, on the part of the University, to provide a safe and secure
environment for girl students to pursue their academic goals. The
conduct of the petitioner was found to be entirely unacceptable.
Adverse notice was also taken, of the fact that the petitioner had
recorded his conversations, with „M‟, at his residence, without her
consent. 32. Even while returning these findings, qua the allegation of
sexual harassment, contained in the complaint dated 9 th September,
2008, of „M‟, the Sub-Committee also expressed concern regarding
the allegation, of the petitioner that „M‟ had used the aforesaid
material to pressurize the petitioner into clearing a job for herself, as
well as for certain other favours. A separate inquiry, into these
allegations was, therefore, recommended. 33. As noted hereinabove, the report of the Sub-Committee was
forwarded to the ACC. The ACC, in its meeting dated 30 th April,
2009, approved the findings of the Sub-Committee, and recommended
that the petitioner be punished by (i) demoting him with reduction in
salary, (ii) debarring him from holding any administrative position, or
position of authority in the University, for the remainder of his
service, (iii) debarring him from membership of all selection
committees for the remainder of his service and (iv) debarring him
from being appointed as research supervisor in future. 34. On 20th May, 2009, the petitioner addressed a representation, to
the Vice-Chancellor, voicing his objections to the report of the ACC. 35. In the said representation, the petitioner contended, inter alia,
as under: Committee had relied on several documents, including pages WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 20 of 58 from the personal diary of „M‟, and had also assimilated other
 evidence, in the form of statements from various witnesses, as
 well as a complaint by a former student of the School of Open
 Learning (SOL), to which the response of „M‟ was also sought.
 The petitioner objected that none of these documents were ever
 made available to him, despite his repeated requests. He pointed
 out that he had been called by the Sub-Committee only on one
 occasion, i.e. 4th March, 2009, when his statement was
 recorded, and that the entire proceedings, of the Sub-Committee
 had, thereafter, taken place, behind his back. This, the petitioner
 submitted, constituted stark violation of the principles of natural
 justice and fair play. (ii) The participation of Prof. Vibha Maurya, who was biased
 against the petitioner, completely vitiated the proceedings, as
 well as the final report of the ACC. The petitioner drew
 attention to the fact that he had, in his representation, dated 1 st
 May, 2009 supra, and 4th May, 2009 supra, objected to the
 participation of Prof. Vibha Maurya in the deliberations of the
 ACC, and had requested that she be directed to recuse herself
 from the said proceedings. The decision, of the ACC, to
 enhance the punishment recommended by the Sub-Committee,
 was, he submitted, solely owing to the participation of Prof.
 Vibha Maurya. (iii) The submission, regarding "sexual harassment" within
 the meaning of explanation Sub-clause (viii), of Clause 2 of WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 21 of 58 Ordinance XV-D, necessarily having to be non-consensual in
 nature, was reiterated. It was also submitted that the Sub-
 Committee, having found substance in the petitioner‟s
 submissions that he was being blackmailed and that there was a
 conspiracy against him, could not, in the same breath, have
 found him guilty of "sexual harassment". The submissions,
 regarding the alleged conspiracy, amongst Anil Solanki, Abhay
 Maurya and „M‟, as contained in the earlier representations,
 were reiterated. (iv) The Sub-Committee had proceeded on the basis of its
 perceived notion of an ideal student-teacher relationship, and its
 understanding that such relationship had to be free from power
 dynamics. These findings, it was submitted, was presumptuous
 in nature, and could not constitute a legitimate basis to find the
 petitioner guilty of sexual harassment against „M‟. It was also requested, by the petitioner, that a separate independent
inquiry be instituted, to ascertain the truth of the entire matter and
that, till the completion of such inquiry, the recommendations of the
ACC be kept in abeyance. 36. Apparently, on 26th June, 2009, the recommendations and
report of the ACC were placed before the EC of the University. 37. On 29th June, 2009, the University issued a memorandum/Show
Cause Notice, to the petitioner, informing him that, the EC had, after
considering the report of the ACC, as well as the evidence on record WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 22 of 58 and the various representations, of the petitioner, noted that the facts
disclosed a "serious act of misconduct on the part of a Professor of the
University" and had decided, consequently, that the petitioner be
issued a Show Cause Notice, asking him to show cause as to why his
services, as Professor in the University, be not disengaged, in terms of
the Annexure to Ordnance XI of the University, for having committed
the said misconduct. In the interregnum, the EC resolved to place the
petitioner under suspension. 38. The aforesaid Show Cause Notice, dated 29th June, 2009, was
challenged, by the petitioner, before this Court, by way of WP (C)
9933/2009, which was disposed of, vide order dated 9th July, 2009,
with liberty to the petitioner to take all contentions in his response to
the Show Cause Notice. 39. The petitioner, accordingly, submitted a reply, dated 13 th July,
2009, to the Show Cause Notice dated 29th June, 2009. In the said
reply, the petitioner placed reliance on the judgment, dated 29 th May,
2009, of this Court in Prof. Bidyug Chakraborty v. Delhi University2 ,
to contend that the ACC had, by not affording him an opportunity to
cross-examine „M‟, infringed the principles of natural justice. He
submitted that the questionnaire, which had been requisitioned from
him, and on which the comments of „M‟ had been sought, was no
substitute for cross-examination. He also protested against not having
been permitted to lead his own evidence, and at the fact that all the
documents and other material/evidence, to which the final report of 2 2009 (112) DRJ 391 (DB) WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 23 of 58 the ACC alluded, including the personal diary of „M‟ and statements
of witnesses who deposed before the Sub-Committee, were never
made available to him. These lapses, he submitted, were serious
enough to vitiate the findings, of the Sub-Committee, in their entirety.
He submitted that the requirement of permission to cross-examine the
complainant and other witnesses, and of being provided all documents
and evidence, on which reliance was proposed to be placed, had
necessarily to be read into Ordinance XV-D, as, otherwise, the
Ordinance would be rendered unconstitutional. He also reiterated his
objections to the participation, in the ACC, of Prof. Vibha Maurya and
the transfer of the proceedings from the UUCC to the ACC, by the
Vice-Chancellor. In fine, he submitted that, even on merits, the
allegation of "sexual harassment", as defined in Ordinance XV-D,
could not be said to have been made out against him. In the
circumstances, he prayed that the charges against him be dropped, his
order of suspension be revoked, and he be honorably discharged. 40. The judgment of this Court in Prof. Bidyug Chakraborty2, on
which the petitioner had placed reliance, was carried, in appeal, by the
University, before the Supreme Court. The appeal was disposed of, by
the Supreme Court, vide order dated 12th January, 2010, which read
thus: 50. An identical communication was sent, by the ACC, to „M‟, on
the same date, i.e. 12th May, 2010. (1997) 6 SCC 241 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 29 of 58 51. „M‟ moved this Court, at this stage, by way of WP (C)
8208/2010, praying, qua the petitioner, that he be awarded punishment
on the basis of the Enquiry Report dated 30th April, 2009, of the ACC,
and the decision, of the EC, taken thereon. Reliefs were also claimed,
by „M‟, against two other Professors, but it is not necessary to advert
thereto, for the purposes of this decision. Suffice it to state that the
aforesaid WP (C) 8208/2010 came to be disposed of, by a learned
Single Judge of this Court, vide judgment dated 5th July, 2011, noting
the submission, made before him, that punishment already stood
meted out, to the petitioner, consequent on a finding that he had, in
fact, indulged in sexual harassment of „M‟ and that, therefore, the
reliefs sought, by „M‟, against the petitioner, did not survive for
consideration. 52. The petitioner avers, in the writ petition, however, that, till the
passing of the aforesaid judgment by this Court on 5th July, 2011, no
order, imposing any punishment on him, had been served by him. This
appears to be correct, as the impugned Memorandum, awarding
punishment to the petitioner, though dated 4th July, 2011, has been
signed, by the Registrar of the University, only on 8th July, 2011.
Apparently, therefore, the impugned Memorandum was, apparently,
served on the petitioner only on or after 8th July, 2011. 53. The impugned Memorandum, dated 8th July, 2011,
communicates, to the petitioner, the decision of the EC, taken vide
Resolution No 137 dated 1st July, 2011, to accept the report, dated 31st
August, 2010, of the ACC and, on the basis thereof, to compulsorily WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 30 of 58 retire the petitioner from the services of the University, w.e.f. 1st July,
2011. 54. It is averred, in the writ petition, that the report, dated 31 st
August, 2010, of the ACC, was never supplied to the petitioner,
though this assertion has been baldly denied in the corresponding
paragraph of the counter-affidavit filed by Respondent No.1. The said
report has, however, been placed on record in these proceedings, and a
reading thereof reveals that it relies, essentially, on the earlier report,
dated 30th April, 2009, as no additional evidence had come to light,
and „M‟ had not cooperated in the matter of submission of a response
to the questionnaire supplied by the petitioner. The report, dated 31st
August, 2010, therefore, reiterated the recommendations, contained in
the earlier report dated 30th April, 2009, for demotion of the petitioner,
with reduction in salary, debarment of the petitioner from holding any
administrative position or position of authority for the remainder of
his service, debarment from membership of any Selection Committee
in the University for the remainder of his service and debarment from
appointment as Research Supervisor in future. The EC, however, in
the impugned Memorandum dated 4th/8th July, 2011, decided to
compulsorily retire the petitioner from the services of the University,
w.e.f. 1st July, 2011, in accordance with Clause 6 of the Annexure to
Ordinance XI of the Ordinances governing the University. 55. Aggrieved thereby, the petitioner has approached this Court by
means of the present writ petition. Analysis 56. Detailed submissions, on the writ petition, were advanced by
Mr. Manish Bishnoi, learned Counsel for the petitioner, Ms.
Beenashaw N. Soni, appearing for the University and Ms. Tanya
Agarwal appearing for „ M ‟. 57. To facilitate ease of reference, the definition of "sexual
harassment", as contained in Clause 2(viii) of Ordinance XV-D may,
albeit at the cost of repetition, be reproduced thus: 58. Considerable emphasis was placed, by Mr. Bishnoi, learned
counsel for the petitioner, on the use of the word "unwelcome" in
Clause 2 (viii) of Ordinance XV-D, and in clause (a) of the
Explanation thereto, as well as the words "without the latter‟s consent
or against the person‟s will", as employed in clause (c) of the said
Explanation. Mr. Bishnoi sought to impress, upon this Court, that the
textual, and verbal, exchanges, between his client and „M‟ were not,
in the least, "unwelcome", or without the consent of „M‟. In fact, he
submitted, his client had been "provoked" into entering into such
exchanges, as „M‟ had caught him off guard in moments of
vulnerability, and had subjected him to repeated provocative and
suggestive verbal and textual assault. Any person, placed in the
position in which his client found himself, would, Mr. Bishnoi would
seek to submit, have reacted similarly. Having, thus, provoked his
client into behaving as he did, Mr. Bishnoi would submit that it did
not lie in the mouth of the petitioner to complain that she had been
sexually harassed. 59. It is apparent, at a very first glance, that the definition of
"sexual harassment", as contained in Clause 2(viii) of Ordinance XV-
D is inclusively worded, not once, but twice, in the main body of the
definition as well as in the Explanation thereto. It is obvious that the
framers of the Ordinance have deliberately worded the definition of
"sexual harassment" in an inclusive manner, and due respect has
necessarily to be accorded to the intention of the framers of the
Ordinance, while construing the provision. Clearly, the definition of
"sexual harassment" would include, not only conduct conforming to
the circumstances outlined in the definition, but also any other
conduct as would be understood, commonly, to constitute "sexual
harassment". 60. Inclusive definitions have necessarily to be expansively
construed. Ordinarily, when a definition is worded in inclusive terms,
the common and ordinary parlance understanding of the expression
would continue to apply4. At times, courts have interpreted the
expression "includes", as contained in definition clauses, to expand
the ambit of the expression defined, beyond the boundaries of the
commonplace understanding of the expression. The expression
"District Judge", as inclusively defined in Article 236(a) of the
Constitution of India, was interpreted, in State of Maharashtra v.
Labour Law Practitioners Association5 , as encompassing the entire
hierarchy of specialised Civil Courts, including Labour Courts and
Industrial Courts. In State of Uttarakhand v. Harpal Singh Rawat6 , 4 Carter v. Bradbeer, (1975) 3 All ER 158 (HL) 5 AIR 1998 SC 1233: (1998) 2 SCC 688 6 AIR 2011 SC 1506: (2011) 4 SCC 575 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 34 of 58 the word "lease", as inclusively defined in Section 2(16)(c) of the
Stamp Act, 1899, was construed as covering a transaction, for the
purposes of the Stamp Act , which may not, otherwise, amount to
"lease", as defined in Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act,
1882. In State of Bombay v. Hospital Mazdoor Sabha7 , the position
in law was pithily encapsulated, by Gajendragadkar, J. (as he then
was), thus: 61. In attempting to understand the concept of "sexual harassment",
as defined in Ordinance XV-(D), therefore, it would not be justifiable
to restrict the scope of the interpretation to the specific types of
conduct referred to therein. 62. In Apparel Export Promotion Council v. A. K. Chopra8 , it was
opined that sexual harassment was "a form of sex discrimination
projected through unwelcome sexual advances, request for sexual
favours and other verbal or physical conduct with sexual overtones,
whether directly or by implication, particularly when submission to or
rejection of such a conduct by the female employee was capable of
being used for effecting the employment of the female employee and
unreasonably interfering with her work performance and had the
effect of creating an intimidating or hostile working environment for
her". Vishaka3 held that "sexual harassment" includes "such 7 AIR 1960 SC 610:1960 (2) SCR 866 8 (1999) 1 SCC 759 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 35 of 58 unwelcome sexually determined behaviour (whether directly or by
implication) as: (a) physical contact and advances; (b) a demand or
request for sexual favours; (c) sexually-coloured remarks; (d) showing
pornography; (e) any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal
conduct of sexual nature". 63. As observed hereinabove, Mr. Bishnoi emphasises the use of
the word "unwelcome" in Clause 2(viii) in Ordinance XV-D.
Inasmuch as the exchanges, between the petitioner and „M‟ took place
with her consent, he submits, the acts of the petitioner could not be
regarded as "unwelcome". 64. In so submitting, Mr. Bishnoi, in my view, has confused the
concept of "unwelcome" acts, with acts done with the consent of the
other party. "Consent" is essentially a physical act. Consent may
either be express or implied. Conscious failure to put up a resistance,
to an act which is being committed, may indicate consent. At all
times, however, the issue of whether the alleged victim of an act,
consented, or did not consent, to the doing thereof, would have to be
gauged on the basis of the manner in which the victim acted, herself
or himself. It is precisely for this reason that "consent" itself, is rarely
a defence to an act of oppression or assault. "Consent" may become a
defence, where it is free. This is for the obvious reason that a victim of
an assault, or an act of oppression, may consent to the doing thereof,
owing to circumstances beyond the victim‟s control, which may
partake of coercion. Consent, given under coercion, or without
volition, is no consent at all. 65. The word "welcome" - or, equally, the word "unwelcome" - on
the other hand, denotes a state of mind. If a person welcomes an act,
that, by itself, denotes free, voluntary and willing consent. An act is
"welcome" when there is an active element of conscious and willing
acquiescence, by the person, to the doing of the act. Contrariwise, an
act is "unwelcome", when the person, on whom the act is perpetrated,
does not invite the doing thereof, or "welcome" the act. Examination
of the question of whether an act, performed by one person or another,
is "welcome", or "unwelcome", would necessarily involve an element
of psychoanalysis of the purported victim. 66. Free consent, or "welcome", can constitute a defence, however,
only where the act itself is not proscribed by the law. Generally
speaking, sexual intercourse, between adults, is legally permissible.
Where, therefore, it is alleged that such intercourse amounts to "rape",
the perpetrator of the act may legitimately urge, in his defence, that
the victim freely consented to the act. If the act complained of, is,
however, not legally permissible in the first place, the existence, or
otherwise, of consent, on the part of the "other party", pales into
insignificance. 67. The relationship between student and teacher is sacred. It
partakes of divinity. The guru stotram of Adi Sankaracharya teaches
us that the guru (teacher) embraces, within his form, the holy trinity of
Brahma, Vishnu and Maheshwara9. The poet-saint Kabir, in a 9 गु रुर्ब्र ह्मा ग्रु रुर्वर ष्ुुः गु रुर्दे वो महे श्वरुः ।
गु रुुः साक्षात् परं र्ब्ह्म तस्मै श्री गु रवे नमुः ॥ WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 37 of 58 celebrated couplet, declares that obeisance to the guru (teacher) takes
precedence, even over salutations to the Almighty, as it is only
through the guru, that one aspires to God10. The nature of the
relationship, between the teacher and the taught, was tellingly
underscored, in the following passages from Avinash Nagra v.
Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti11 , as penned by K. Ramaswamy. J.: Similarly spiritual values open the vision of a student to "one
 spirit" dwelling in all and unite him with the whole mankind
 as one family. He, therefore, emphasised that it is the duty of
 every citizen interested in the future of the country and in the
 preservation of our great cultural heritage, to extend
 cooperation for successful implementation of the programme
 of value-oriented education being imparted by Sri Sathya Sai
 Educational Institutions. 8. In The Social and Political Thought of Dr S.
 Radhakrishnan by Clarissa Rodrigues, at p. 120, it has been
 stated that education helps to improve the social order. An
 educated man has an open mind, a broad outlook, is willing to
 reconsider issues and make his own decisions. He is liberated
 from the tutelage to outmoded notions, to oppressive
 institutions and is always willing to learn from others and
 change whenever it is necessary. On the necessity of
 education, it is stated that the view of Dr Radhakrishnan was
 that education is meant to enable individuals to tackle the
 myriad problems of society (such as ignorance, disease,
 poverty and so on) and to cope with the accelerated pace of
 change in several spheres (such as agriculture, industry,
 medicine, transport, communication) which is a characteristic
 feature of society today. According to Dr Radhakrishnan, WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 39 of 58 education from the individual point of view will be
 incomplete, if it does not initiate the child to the supreme
 values of love, truth, goodness and beauty and fill him with a
 sense of purpose or else he suffers from greed, pusillanimity,
 anxiety and defeatism. Education, therefore, should not only
 train the intellect, promote technical skill but also develop a
 person's aesthetic abilities and especially moral and spiritual
 values. This is in accordance with the Upanishadic view that
 we should aim at the play of life (pranaraman), the
 satisfaction of mind (manarandam) and the fullness of
 tranquillity (santisamdharm). On social aims of education,
 according to Dr Radhakrishnan, man must also realise that in
 a society where there is social injustice, gross inequality and
 lack of fraternity, individual liberty cannot be preserved. It
 must also be borne in mind that individual freedom entails
 social responsibility. Education, therefore, transforms the
 social order by promoting a healthy nationalism and the spirit
 of internationalism. 9. On the functions of a teacher, at p. 133, according to
 Dr Radhakrishnan, the success of the educational process
 depends considerably on the teacher, for it is the teacher who
 has to implant aims, and to build the character of the students.
 According to Laski, at bottom of the education, the quality of
 a university is always in direct proportion to the quality of its
 teacher. A good teacher is one who knows his subject, is
 enthusiastic about it and one who never ceases to learn.
 Communication with the students and sense of commitment
 to his work are necessary. A good teacher, therefore,
 according to Dr Radhakrishnan, is one who is objective, just,
 humble and is open to correction. According to Whitehead
 the teacher must be a self-confident learned man. The
 teacher, therefore, is the primary functionary to transmit the
 intellectual and ethical values to the young. He should
 encourage the attitude of free enquiry and rational
 reflections. The teacher should try to remove the leaden
 weights of pride and prejudice, passion and desire which are
 likely to cloud a student's vision. The devoted teacher is not
 only concerned with the child's intellectual development but
 also has the obligation to attend to his moral, emotional and
 social growth as well. 10. Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation has stated
 that "a teacher cannot be without character. If he lacks it, he WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 40 of 58 will be like salt without its savour. A teacher must touch the
 hearts of his students. Boys imbibe more from the teacher's
 own life than they do from books. If teachers impart all the
 knowledge in the world to their students but do not inculcate
 truth and purity amongst them, they will have betrayed them".
 Shri Aurobindo has stated that "it is the teacher's province to
 hold aloft the torch, to insist at all times and at all places that
 this nation of ours was founded on idealism and that whatever
 may be the prevailing tendencies of the times, our children
 shall learn to live among the sunlit peaks". Dr S.
 Radhakrishnan has stated that "we in our country look upon
 teacher as gurus or, as acharyas. An Acharya is one whose
 aachar or conduct is exemplary. He must be an example of
 Sadachar or good conduct. He must inspire the pupils who
 are entrusted to his care with love of virtue and goodness.
 The ideal of a true teacher is andhakaraniridhata gurur itya
 bhidhiyate. Andhakar is not merely intellectual ignorance, but
 is also spiritual blindness. He who is able to remove that kind
 of spiritual blindness is called a guru. Are we deserving the
 noble appellation of an acharya or a guru?" Swami
 Vivekananda had stated that "the student should live from his
 very boyhood with one whose character is a blazing fire and
 should have before him a living example of the highest
 teaching. In our country, the imparting of knowledge has
 always been through men of renunciation. The charge of
 imparting knowledge should again fall upon the shoulder of
 Tyagis". 11. It is in this backdrop, therefore, that the Indian society
 has elevated the teacher as "Guru Brahma, Gurur Vishnu,
 Guru Devo Maheswaraha". As Brahma, the teacher creates
 knowledge, learning, wisdom and also creates out of his
 students, men and women, equipped with ability and
 knowledge, discipline and intellectualism to enable them to
 face the challenges of their lives. As Vishnu, the teacher is
 preserver of learning. As Maheswara, he destroys ignorance.
 Obviously, therefore, the teacher was placed on the pedestal
 below the parents. The State has taken care of service
 conditions of the teacher and he owes dual fundamental duties
 to himself and to the society. As a member of the noble
 teaching profession and a citizen of India he should always be
 willing, self-disciplined, dedicated with integrity to remain
 ever a learner of knowledge, intelligently to articulate and
 communicate and imbibe in his students, as social duty, to WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 41 of 58 impart education, to bring them up with discipline, inculcate
 to abjure violence and to develop scientific temper with a
 spirit of enquiry and reform constantly to rise to higher levels
 in any walk of life nurturing constitutional ideals enshrined in Article 51-A so as to make the students responsible citizens
 of the country. Thus the teacher either individually or
 collectively as a community of teachers, should regenerate
 this dedication with a bent of spiritualism in broader
 perspective of the constitutionalism with secular ideologies
 enshrined in the Constitution as an arm of the State to
 establish egalitarian social order under the rule of law.
 Therefore, when the society has given such a pedestal, the
 conduct, character, ability and disposition of a teacher
 should be to transform the student into a disciplined citizen,
 inquisitive to learn, intellectual to pursue in any walk of life
 with dedication, discipline and devotion with an enquiring
 mind but not with blind customary beliefs. The education that
 is imparted by the teacher determines the level of the student
 for the development, prosperity and welfare of the society.
 The quality, competence and character of the teacher are,
 therefore, most significant to mould the calibre, character and
 capacity of the students for successful working of democratic
 institutions and to sustain them in their later years of life as a
 responsible citizen in different responsibilities. Without a
 dedicated and disciplined teacher, even the best education
 system is bound to fail. It is, therefore, the duty of the teacher
 to take such care of the pupils as a careful parent would take
 of its children and the ordinary principle of vicarious liability
 would apply where negligence is that of a teacher. The age of
 the pupil and the nature of the activity in which he takes part
 are material factors determining the degree and supervision
 demanded by a teacher. 12. It is axiomatic that percentage of education among
 girls, even after independence, is fathom deep due to
 indifference on the part of all in rural India except some
 educated people. Education to the girl children is nation's
 asset and foundation for fertile human resources and
 disciplined family management, apart from their equal
 participation in socio-economic and political democracy.
 Only of late, some middle-class people are sending the girl
 children to co-educational institutions under the care of
 proper management and to look after the welfare and safety
 of the girls. Therefore, greater responsibility is thrust on the WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 42 of 58 management of the schools and colleges to protect the young
 children, in particular, the growing up girls, to bring them up
 in disciplined and dedicated pursuit of excellence. The
 teacher who has been kept in charge, bears more added
 higher responsibility and should be more exemplary. His/her
 character and conduct should be more like Rishi and as loco
 parentis and such is the duty, responsibility and charge
 expected of a teacher. The question arises whether the
 conduct of the appellant is befitting with such higher
 responsibilities and as he by his conduct betrayed the trust
 and forfeited the faith whether he would be entitled to the
 full-fledged enquiry as demanded by him? The fallen
 standard of the appellant is the tip of the iceberg in the
 discipline of teaching, a noble and learned profession; it is for
 each teacher and collectively their body to stem the rot to
 sustain the faith of the society reposed in them. Enquiry is not
 a panacea but a nail in the coffin. It is self-inspection and
 correction that is supreme." (Emphasis supplied)

Significantly, in Avinash Nagra11, the Supreme Court upheld the
decision, of the disciplinary authority, to dispense with the holding of
an enquiry, altogether, before chastising the delinquent teacher, on the
ground that the teacher had admitted to committing the act in
question. 68. So sacred, therefore, is the student-teacher relationship, that the
slightest sexual tinge, therein, indelibly tarnishes the relationship, and
consigns it to profligacy. 69. Viewed thus, in the opinion of this Court, there can never be
any question of a teacher seeking to justify having committed acts,
admittedly of a sexual colour and connotation, towards a student,
seeking to urge, in his defence, that the acts were not "unwelcome". The very idea, in the opinion of this Court, is preposterous, and
bordering on absurdity. In the opinion of this Court, it is completely
foreclosed, to a teacher, who has made sexually coloured remarks to
his student, to urge that the remarks were not "unwelcome" and that,
therefore, he cannot be accused of "harassment". It is true that the
definition of "sexual harassment", as ordinarily understood, and as
defined in Clause 2 (viii) of Ordinance XV-D, refers to "unwelcome"
acts. That, however, might be a factor to be taken into the reckoning,
where the allegation of sexual harassment is between two adult
colleagues, or two adults working in the University. It can never apply
to the equation between the teacher and a student. This is essentially
because sexually coloured conduct or behaviour, towards a student, by
a teacher, is completely proscribed, morally as well as legally. Any
such conduct, therefore, if committed or exhibited, can never be
defended on the ground that the conduct was not unwelcome to the
student. It is not, therefore, in the opinion of this Court, open to a
teacher, accused of sexual harassment towards a student, by making
lewd, or sexually coloured remarks, or exhibiting other conduct
having sexual connotations, to urge, in his defence, that the student
welcomed the acts. The "unwelcome" caveat, as contained in
Ordinance XV-D is, in the opinion of this Court, intended to apply to
other cases of alleged sexual harassment, and could never have been
intended to apply to a case of a charge of sexual harassment, made by
a student against a teacher. 70. It hardly matters, in this context, whether the student was being
taught by the particular teacher, against whom the allegation of sexual WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 44 of 58 harassment was made, or not. The teacher, in an educational
institution, is a teacher, qua every student in the institution. He is in
loco parentis, not only towards the students whom he teaches, but to
every student, studying in the institution. During the time spent by a
student, pursuing her, or his, studies in an educational institution, the
institution partakes of the character of a home away from home, and
the teachers and the institution over responsibility to afford, to every
student in the institution, the safety, security and sanctuary that the
parents of the student would provide, when the student is at home. A
teacher who, instead of maintaining this high degree of moral conduct,
indulges in sexually coloured text messages, or telephonic
conversations, with his student, has no place in the institution, and is
an insult to the entire teaching community. For a teacher who regards
himself as Dushyant to the student‟s Shakuntala, there can be no
lesser punishment, in administrative civil law, then wholesale
expulsion from the portals of the institution. 71. It is no defence to a teacher, in such a situation, to urge that the
student provoked the allegedly delinquent behaviour on his part.
Students may be impressionable, and infatuation, towards a teacher,
on the part of a student, is not an unknown phenomenon. It may be
pardonable for a student to harbour such an infatuation, towards the
teacher; it is, however, entirely unpardonable, for the teacher, to
succumb to the infatuation, and reciprocate. This court is completely
convinced that any such reciprocation, on the part of the teacher,
renders him unfit to continue to teach in the institution. There is, in
the opinion of this Court, no half-way house in such matters. 72. In recent times, the principle of purposive interpretation has
ousted the earlier prevalent principle of literal interpretation, as the
"golden rule" of interpretation of statutes13. This principle - also
known as the "mischief rule" , or "Heydon‟s rule" of interpretation,
owing, as it does, its origin to Heydon's case14 requires statutes to be
interpreted keeping in mind the purpose thereof, and the mischief that
is sought to be remedied by the statute, in mind. Allowing placement,
on Clause 2(viii) of Ordinance XV-D, any interpretation which would
permit, or even condone, the making of sexually coloured remarks, by
a teacher of the University, to a student, whether orally or textually,
would, in the estimation of this Court, defeat the entire purpose of
having an Ordinance to deal with cases of sexual harassment within
the portals of the University. For this reason, too, therefore, this Court
is of the firm view that the defence, so fervently urged by Mr.
Bishnoi, of the conduct, of his client, not having been "unwelcome" to
„M‟, is thin as tinsel. 73. This Court is also of the view that, in this context, the issue of
whether „M‟ conspired, with Anil Solanki, or Abhay Maurya, or
anyone else, or conceived a grandiose scheme to blackmail the
petitioner, is entirely irrelevant. These facts, even if true, do not
detract, one jot, from the fact that the petitioner engaged in
unacceptable, sexually charged communication with „M‟. Mr. Bishnoi
would seek to contend that, as a willing conspirator in the plan to 13 Shailesh Dhairyawan v. Mohan Balkrishna Lulla , (2016) 3 SCC 619; Richa Mishra v State of
Chattisgarh , (2016) 4 SCC 179 14 (1584) 3 Co. Rep. 7a: 76 ER 637 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 46 of 58 blackmail the petitioner, „M‟ could not claim to be a victim of
unwelcome sexual harassment. The submission, in the opinion of this
Court, misses the wood for the trees. In the context of sexual
harassment, especially in the backdrop of teacher-student
relationships, a wider connotation is required to be ascribed to the
expression "unwelcome". Acceptance of the contention of Mr.
Bishnoi, and the interpretation placed by him on the expression
"unwelcome" would result in permitting any teacher, with whom a
student may be infatuated, to enter into a sexual relationship with the
student and, thereafter, seek to claim that the relationship was
consensual and, therefore, not "unwelcome" to the student. Such an
interpretation, which is clearly against public interest has, in the
opinion of this Court, necessarily to be eschewed. What has to be
seen, in such circumstances, is not whether the conduct of the teacher
is welcome, or unwelcome, to the student, but as to whether it is
welcome, or unwelcome, to societal interest, and to preservation of
the societal moral fabric. The acts of the petitioner, qua „M‟, even as
admitted by the petitioner, could not be regarded as minor
peccadilloes. The manner in which the petitioner conducted himself,
qua „M‟, at least in the matter of exchanges, verbal and textual, made
a mockery of the teacher-student relationship. The infraction was
undoubtedly serious, in the opinion of this Court. Such conduct cannot
be regarded as "welcome". It is inherently unwelcome, to public and
societal interest, and to preservation of the sanctity of the educational
edifice. For this reason, the motivations of „M‟, or her co-conspirators,
if any, cannot mitigate, to any extent, the indiscretions committed by
the petitioner. This Court does not, therefore, intend to enter into that WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 47 of 58 arena, in respect which the ACC rightly recommended initiation of an
independent, and separate, inquisitorial exercise. 74. Equally, this Court finds no substance in the objection, voiced
by Mr. Bishnoi on behalf of his client, to the proceedings having been
transferred from the UUCC to the ACC, or to the participation of Prof.
Vibha Maurya in the proceedings. The submission, of the petitioner,
that the proceedings could have been transferred to the ACC only in
exceptional circumstances, and for specific reasons, is not borne out
by a reading of Ordinance XV-D. Clause 4 of the "Procedure to be
followed", in dealing with complaints of sexual harassment, clearly
states that the Vice-Chancellor could refer any complaint to any of the
Committees including the Apex Committee. The stipulation,
regarding cases being taken up by the ACC in exceptional
circumstances is, on the other hand, to be found in Clause 5 of the said
Procedure, which deals with the right of the complainant to directly
approach the ACC. In such cases, the complainant is required to give
reasons for bypassing the UUCC. No such stipulation is contained in
Clause 4, which deals with the power of the Vice-Chancellor to refer
the complaint to the ACC, and reads as under: 75. No infraction of the prescribed procedure can, therefore, be said
to have been committed by the Vice-Chancellor, in directing the ACC
to look into the complaint. As the recital of facts, hereinabove,
discloses, the complaint was transferred, from the UUCC to the ACC,
consequent on a representation made by „M‟, in which she was WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 48 of 58 apprehensive regarding the conduct of the members of the UUCC. In
such cases, some amount of deference is, necessarily, required to be
accorded to the alleged victim of sexual harassment, vis-à-vis the
perpetrator thereof, as the latter is, in fact, merely being subjected, in a
way, to a peer review. If, therefore, the Vice-Chancellor decided to
have the complaint enquired into, by the ACC, and was possessed of
the requisite power to do so, as per Clause 4 of the Procedure
stipulated in this regard in Ordinance XV-D, this Court finds no
reason to interfere therewith, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 76. Though the present writ petition could be dismissed even on the
aforesaid ground, this court deems it appropriate to examine the other
contentions advanced by Mr. Bishnoi. 77. The misgivings, expressed by the petitioner, regarding the
participation, in the ACC, of Prof. Vibha Maurya, equally fail to
impress. The ACC was a body comprising of 13 members, of whom
Prof. Vibha Maurya was but one. That apart, the apprehensions,
expressed by the petitioner regarding the participation of Prof. Vibha
Maurya, are founded on mere conjectures and surmises, involving a
perceived and convoluted, conspiracy, in which „M‟, Anil Solanki,
Prof. Abhay Maurya and Prof. Vibha Maurya were, if the petitioner is
to be believed, all conspirators. No positive finding, in favour of the
petitioner, has been returned, on this aspect, either by the ACC or by
the EC, and this Court is not inclined, in these proceedings, to
entertain such a plea. In any event, there is nothing to indicate that WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 49 of 58 Prof. Vibha Maurya played any controlling role in the deliberations of
the ACC, or could, in any manner, influence the decision of the EC. 78. The decision in Rattan Lal Sharma v. Managing Committee,
Dr. Hari Ram (Co-Education) Higher Secondary School15 , on which
the petitioner places reliance, turned on entirely different facts. In that
case, Maru Ram, the member of the Enquiry Committee against
homebuyers was alleged, was one of three members constituting the
Enquiry Committee and had, in fact, himself deposed against the
charged officer, whereafter he himself submitted the report, holding
the officer guilty of some of the charges, including the charge
regarding which he himself had deposed. In view thereof, the
Supreme Court found that Maru Ram had a real and prevailing
interest in establishing the charge against the charged officer and
could not, therefore, have been co-opted as a member of the Enquiry
Committee. In the present case, except for vague allegations
regarding the possible bias of Prof. Vibha Maurya, as the wife of
Prof. Abhay Maurya, against whom, too, the allegation of bias is
nebulous, there is little to discredit Prof. Vibha Maurya, or lead to an
inference that her participation , as a member of the ACC, resulted in
a "real likelihood of bias", as could justify a "reasonable
apprehension" in the mind of the petitioner. The test, that is required
to be satisfied in such cases, is the existence of a reasonable
apprehension, or of a real likelihood, of bias, and not of any fanciful
trepidation, in the mind of the petitioner. 1993 SCC (L & S) 1106: (1993) 4 SCC 10 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 50 of 58 79. These two contentions, as advanced by Mr. Bishnoi, regarding
the manner in which the proceedings had been transferred to the ACC,
and the perceived bias, of the ACC, owing to the participation of Prof.
Vibha Maurya are, therefore, rejected. 80. Mr. Bishnoi also sought to impress, repeatedly, on this Court,
the fact that, once the proceedings stood "closed", as communicated to
the petitioner vide the letter dated 12th May, 2010, there could be no
question of penalising the petitioner, as that would amount to
reopening closed proceedings. This Court is unable to agree. Closure
of proceedings is one thing, and exoneration of the petitioner, is quite
another. Significantly, the letter dated 12th May, 2010, does not even
go to the extent of closing the disciplinary proceedings. All that it
states is that the proceedings are closed. In the opinion of this Court, it
is quite obvious that the letter did not intend to bring the disciplinary
proceedings to an end. Any such attempt would, in fact, have been
completely illegal, as disciplinary proceedings, once initiated, can end
only with the punishment, or with the exoneration, of the charged
official. There is no third option. The proceedings cannot be brought
to an end in any other manner (unless, of course, they abate in law).
No order, awarding any punishment to the petitioner, or exonerating
him of the charges against him, had been passed, prior to the issuance
of the letter dated 12th May, 2010. The petitioner had only been issued
a Show Cause Notice, dated 29th June, 2009, to which the petitioner
had submitted his response. Before any decision could be taken, by
the EC, on the response of the petitioner, the matter veered off, as it
were, towards the Bidyug Chakraborty1 tangent. The disciplinary WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 51 of 58 proceedings, therefore, remained inchoate and unconcluded. Once the
petitioner had submitted his questionnaire, pursuant to the
communication, dated 18th February, 2010 supra, of the ACC, and
„M‟, despite the communications addressed to her, failed to respond to
the questionnaire, the EC could not, straightaway, have brought the
proceedings to an end. The reference, in the letter dated 12 th May,
2010, to the "closure" of the proceedings, therefore, necessarily has to
be read as referring to the closure of the enquiry proceedings, insofar
as they required the participation of the petitioner, or of „M‟. The ball,
as it were, lay, thereafter, in the court of the EC, which was required
to take a decision, regarding the culpability, or otherwise, of the
petitioner, keeping in view all the material before it. It is this decision
that was taken and communicated, to the petitioner, vide the impugned
Memorandum dated 4th/8th July, 2011, by which the petitioner claims
to be aggrieved. It cannot, therefore, be alleged that, by doing so, the
EC reopened closed proceedings. One may refer, profitably, in this
context, to the following words, from Yoginath D. Bagde v. State of
Maharashtra16 : (Emphasis supplied) 16 (1999) 7 SCC 739 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 52 of 58 81. The reliance, by Mr. Bishnoi, on the "closure" letter, dated 12 th
May, 2010 is, therefore, misplaced. 82. Mr. Bishnoi has also made elaborate and eloquent submissions,
regarding the manner in which the principles of natural justice had
been infracted in the present case. He also sought to submit that the
procedure outlined by the Supreme Court, in its decision in Bidyug
Chakraborty1, too, had not been followed, as, despite „M‟ having
defaulted in responding to the questionnaire submitted by his client,
the EC ultimately held in her favour. Ordinarily, these submissions
may have merited some consideration; in the present case, however, in
the face of the admission, by the petitioner, of his having exchanged
suggestive text messages, and indulged in telephonic conversation,
having sexual overtones, with „M‟, albeit in what he termed "moments
of indiscretion", it cannot be said that any procedural infraction, even
if it were to be supposed to have existed, resulted in prejudice to the
petitioner, so as to vitiate the final decision taken against him. It is, by
now, well settled, in service jurisprudence, that procedural lacunae,
even if they exist, would vitiate disciplinary proceedings only if, as a
result thereof, the charged officer is subjected to prejudice. One may
profitably refer, in this context, to, among others, State Bank of
Patiala v. S. K. Sharma17 , P. D. Agrawal v S.B.I.18 and Haryana
Financial Corporation v. Kailash Chandra Ahuja19 . In the face of
the consistent admission, by the petitioner, regarding the character of
the text messages and verbal communications, established, by him, 17 AIR 1996 SC 1669: (1996) 3 SCC 364 18 (2006) 8 SCC 776 19 (2008) 9 SCC 31 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 53 of 58 with „M‟, it cannot be said that the petitioner has been prejudiced, in
any manner, by any procedural infraction that might have taken place
in these proceedings. In Channabasappa Basappa Happali v State of
Mysore20 , on which Ms. Agrawal, appearing for „M‟, rightly placed
reliance, it has been held that, "where the delinquent admitted all the
relevant facts, on which the decision could be given against him, it
could not be said that the enquiry was in any breach of principles of
natural justice". 83. In his statement, as recorded before the Sub-Committee on 4th
March, 2009, the petitioner admitted that, on 16th May, 2007, „M‟
"had sex related talks and (he) also responded positively on that day".
In a similar, but more elaborate, vein, the petitioner, in his reply dated
4th March, 2009, to the communiqué, dated 24th February, 2009, of the
ACC, admitted thus: (Emphasis supplied)

The aforesaid admission, on the part of the petitioner, seen in
conjunction with the text messages, especially those extracted in para
27, conclusively bring home, to the petitioner, the charge of sexual
harassment, as levelled against him in the complaint, dated 9th
September, 2008, of „M‟, and render the petitioner unfit to hold the
post of Professor or, for that matter, any other teaching assignment, in
the University. 84. For the same reason, the non-supply, to the petitioner, of the
"report", dated 31st August, 2010, of the ACC, on the basis whereof
the impugned order, dated 4th/8th July, 2011, came to be passed,
cannot be regarded as fatal to the final decision to compulsorily retire
the petitioner from service. A reading of the report, dated 31 st August,
2010, discloses that the ACC merely noted the fact that, after the
forwarding, of its earlier report dated 30th April, 2009, to the EC, there
was no particular change in circumstances, as the questionnaire of the
petitioner, though forwarded to „M‟, did not elicit any response from
her. As such, the ACC merely resolved, in its report dated 31st August,
2010, to stand by its earlier report, dated 30 th April, 2009. As the said
earlier report, dated 30th April, 2009, had been furnished to the
petitioner, who also submitted his representation there against, no
fatal procedural infraction could be said to have been committed,
merely by the fact that the report, dated 31st August, 2010, was not WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 55 of 58 furnished to the petitioner, especially in view of his admission, on
merits, to the allegation of having sent text messages, and having
made voice calls, having sexual overtones, to „M‟. 85. The facts, in Prof. S. P. Narang v. University of Delhi21 ,
rendered by a co-ordinate Single Bench of this Court, and on which
Mr. Bishnoi places considerable reliance, clearly distinguish it from
the case at hand. In the first instance, there was no admission, in Prof.
S. P. Narang21, of commission, by the petitioner therein, of the acts
which were alleged to constitute sexual harassment. Secondly, the
learned Single Judge, deciding Prof. S. P. Narang21, based his
decision on the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in Prof.
Bidyug Chakraborty2, which effectively stands diluted by the order
passed by the Supreme Court in the Special Leave Petition preferred
thereagainst. As a result, no substantial benefit can enure, to the
petitioner, by the judgment of this Court in Prof. S. P. Narang21. 86. Mr. Bishnoi also sought to rely on the Guidelines, issued by the
United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, as well as
the decision of a learned Circuit Judge of the United States of
Appeals, 11th Circuit, in Barbara J. Henson v. City of Dundee22.
This Court is not persuaded to advert thereto. Overseas jurisprudence,
in cases of sexual harassment, does not, in the opinion of this Court,
have any substantial precedential value, as, sexual harassment, being
in the nature of a social, and societal, evil, the jurisprudence
developed with respect to sexual harassment is also, inevitably, 21 2007 SCC OnLine Del 9458 22 682 F. 2d. 897 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 56 of 58 conditioned by the prevalent social, and societal, milieu. That apart,
the law, relating to sexual harassment, may justifiably be regarded as
having crystallised, in our jurisprudence, to a point where is not
necessary to refer to decisions emanating from other jurisdictions. 87. Reliance was also placed, by Mr. Bishnoi, on the judgment, of a
Division Bench of this Court in Union of India v. S. K. Das23 . That
case, however, did not deal with an allegation of alleged sexual
harassment of a student, by a teacher; neither was there any
admission, by the respondent in that case , of his having made
statements having sexual overtones, as in the present case. 88. Learned counsel for the respondents have invited the attention,
of this Court, to the limited scope of its jurisdiction, as vested by Article 226 of the Constitution of India, insofar as re-evaluating the
merits of the decision of the competent disciplinary authority,
regarding the charges levelled against a charged officer, is concerned.
Inasmuch as, on the facts as admitted, this Court has, in this judgment,
come to considered view that the decision to compulsorily retire the
petitioner from service cannot be said to be unjustified, or in any
manner disproportionate to the "indiscretions" committed by him, it
becomes unnecessary to consider this submission. Suffice it to state
that, on the admitted facts, the decision, of the respondents, to
compulsorily retire the petitioner from service cannot be said to
warrant any interference, by this Court, in exercise of its extraordinary
jurisdiction, conferred by Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 2016 SCC OnLine Del 5578 WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 57 of 58 Conclusion 89. The writ petition is, therefore, dismissed, with no orders as to
costs. C. HARI SHANKAR, J. NOVEMBER 25, 2019
dsn/HJ WP (C) 1288/2012 Page 58 of 58