The complainant filed the complaint under Sec.200 Cr.P.C.

against the accused for the offence punishable under Sec.138 Negotiable Instruments Act (For short N.I.Act). 2 C.C.No.26238/2019 2. The brief facts of the complainant case is as under: 3. After filing of the complaint, cognizance taken and

recorded the sworn statement of the complainant. The complainant

has complied all the statutory requirements under Sec.138 of 4 C.C.No.26238/2019

N.I.Act. On the other hand, accused has not complied with the

demand notice issued by the complainant company nor made the

payment within the stipulated period. Thereafter, the case is

registered against the accused and summons issued. Pursuant to

issuance of summons, the accused has not appeared , but, he

appeared in pursuance of issuance of lok adalath notice and

accepted claim of the complainant and accepted to make payment

of cheque amount. Accordingly, the complainant filed memo by

stating that the matter has been settled out of court and he has no

claim against the accused and requested to pass judgment on the

basis of joint memo. 4. Heard arguments and perused the material on record. 5. On the basis of the contents of the complaint the

following points arise for my consideration. : 6. My findings to the above points are as follows: 7.Point No.1: The complainant has filed the complaint

alleging that the accused has committed an offence punishable

u/s.138 Negotiable Instrument Act . The complainant and the

accused appeared before the court and filed joint memo on

21.06.2022. Under the joint memo, the matter has been settled

between the parties for a sum of Rs.1,50,000/­towards full and

final settlement and the complainant acknowledges the same

in the joint memo. 8. Despite it, the complainant counsel has filed memo

with authorized copy of the resolution stating that the

authorized representative of the complainant company has

been changed and present representative of the complainant

company appeared personally and entered into settlement

process. After perusal of documents submitted by the

complainant counsel it is legally presumed that the said

representative of the complainant company has authority to

enter into settlement process. 9. In this case, it is to be considered by the court that
whether the mandatory requirement as mentioned u/s.138 Negotiable Instrument Act has been complied with or not. The 6 C.C.No.26238/2019

cheque is dt.08.04.2017 it was presented for encashment and the
endorsement received on 01.06.2017. That on 26.06.2017 the legal
notice is issued through RPAD. The complaint was filed on
07.08.2017 before XIV ACMM Court. Later on, it has been
transferred to this court on 21.12.2017. It is evident from the
contents of joint memo that the accused has not paid the cheque
amount. 10. Upon appreciation of the materials , this court is of the

opinion that the accused failed to prove that he has not not

issued the cheque for legally enforceable debt On the contrary,

the complainant has proved that the accused issued the cheque in

question towards discharge of legally enforceable debt. When the

said cheque was presented the same has been dishonored. Hence in

this regard a notice has been issued against the accused. Despite

service of notice, the accused has not paid the cheque amount.

Hence, the court is of the opinion that the complainant has proved

that the accused committed an offence punishable u/s.138 Negotiable Instrument Act. Hence, Point No.1 is answered in the

Affirmative. 11 . Point No.2 : IN view of the discussion made supra, the

court is of the opinion that the complainant has proved that the

accused committed an offence punishable u/s.138 Negotiable

Instrument Act . The joint memo has been filed by the complainant

and the accused before this court. Further both the parties i.e the 7 C.C.No.26238/2019

complainant and the accused have consented to pass the judgment

for payment of agreed amount as per the joint memo as

compensation to the complainant. The complainant and the

accused themselves have come forward with mode of repayment

of the loan amount and discharged the legal liability by making

payment of settled amount. Hence, in view of this I proceed to

pass the following :