Suit for declaration, permanent & mandatory injunction 1. The present suit has been filed by Rukmani Devi (hereinafter CS No.206/2022 Page 1 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 referred as plaintiff) for declaring the Sale Deed bearing registration
 no.14393 in Book No.1 Vol. No.7834 on Page 104 to 114 on
 26.11.2007 of the property no.123-A, Savitri Nagar, Delhi as Null
 and Void under the Specific Relief Act 1963 and permanent and
 mandatory injunction against the defendants namely (i) Shiv Kumar
 (hereinafter referred as defendant no.1), (ii) Smt. Neelam Sharma
 (hereinafter referred as defendant no.2) and (iii) Rajesh Kumar
 (hereinafter referred as defendant no.3). 2. The case of the plaintiff is that defendant no.1 and 2 are son and
 daughter in law of the plaintiff and defendant no.3 had executed
 sale deed in favour of defendant no.1 and 2. The plaintiff was
 residing at House No.555, Dhani Chajaran, Bhiwani, Haryana and
 defendant no.1 and 2 approached and persuaded the plaintiff to
 come and live with them at Delhi. In the year 2007, plaintiff shifted
 to Delhi with defendant no.1 and 2 in a rented accommodation.
 After some time, defendant no.1 and 2 asked financial aid from the
 plaintiff to purchase their own house i.e. Flat No.123-A, Savitri
 Nagar, Delhi and assured the plaintiff that said property shall be
 purchased in her name. Plaintiff gave total Rs.9 lacs to the
 defendant no.1 and 2 from her savings and after taking friendly loan
 from one Ram Kishan Beniwal. The Plaintiff even sold her cattle
 and jewelery for arranging the said amount. 3. After sometime the defendant no.1 & 2 showed some documents to
 the Plaintiff and took her signatures and thumb impression on
 several blank papers telling her that the property bearing flat
 no.133-A, Savitri Nagar had been purchased in her name and the CS No.206/2022 Page 2 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 plaintiff being an illiterate lady believed defendant no.1 & 2. 4. Defendant no.1, 2 & Plaintiff were living happily together and
 plaintiff used to visit her native village off & on for care and upkeep
 of native house. In the year, 2015, while Plaintiff was in her native
 village, she came to know about the matrimonial dispute between
 defendant no.1 & 2 when she was summoned to appear in a
 complaint filed by Defendant no.2 under Section 498A IPC. That
 was when the Plaintiff came to know that the suit property was not
 in her name but in the joint names of Defendant no.1 & 2. The
 Plaintiff had been cheated as the property had been registered in the
 name of Defendant no.1 & 2 despite the entire payment being made
 by the Plaintiff. The Plaintiff had used all her savings and had even
 sold her belongings and had taken a loan from her husband's friend
 and her married daughter and she had been befooled by her own son
 and daughter-in-law. She even filed a complaint before Ld.MM. 5. The Plaintiff has filed the present suit as she has facing threat of
 dispossession from Defendants and therefore, has prayed for
 declaration of the sale deed as null and void and also for permanent
 injunction restraining the defendants from dispossessing the
 plaintiff from the property. 6. Written statement was filed by the Defendant no.1 wherein it was
 stated that he was residing separately from Defendant no.2 since
 last 8 years and admitted that financial help had been extended by
 the Plaintiff for purchase of the suit property which was in the joint
 name of Defendant no.1 & 2. He further admitted that he intended CS No.206/2022 Page 3 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 to return money of the plaintiff and also had assured the Plaintiff
 that he would transfer the house in her name but due to the family
 dispute, the same could not be effected. 7. Written statement was also filed by Defendant no.2 and she denied
 all the averments made by the Plaintiff and Defendant no.1 stating
 that the suit had been filed to usurp the property of the Defendant
 no.2. She further stated that she wanted half of the share in the suit
 property as the same was purchased by her jointly with her husband. 8. Plaintiff filed replication to the written statement of defendants
 controverting the stand taken by them in their written statement and
 reiterated the facts of her plaint. 9. During the course of arguments on maintainability, the court of
 learned ACJ held that the value of the suit was Rs.7,35,000/- and
 hence the plaint was returned after which the same was transferred
 to the Predecessor Court. As the pleadings were complete, the case
 was listed for framing of issues and arguments on the application of
 the plaintiff under Order VII Rule 14 CPC . 10.Before the issue could be framed, the defendant was proceeded ex-
 parte vide order dated 02.04.2022 and matter was listed for ex-parte
 plaintiff evidence. The application under Order VII Rule 14 CPC of
 the plaintiff was allowed and additional documents were allowed to
 be taken on record. 11.During the plaintiff evidence, plaintiff examined herself as PW1 CS No.206/2022 Page 4 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 and tendered his affidavit in evidence as Ex.PW1/1. She relied upon
 the following documents :- 7) Ex.PW1/7, certified copy of proceedings of Tribunal of
 Maintenance of Parents and Senior Citizens with order dated
 11.03.2016. 12.Thereafter, plaintiff examined PW2 Ram Kishan Berwal who
 tendered his evidence by way of affidavit and relied upon the
 documents as under:- 13.Plaintiff examined another witness namely Ajeet Singh as PW3 who
 was a summoned witness. He brought the summoned record i.e.
 original record of sale deed registered on 26.11.2007 vide
 registration no.14393, before the court and exhibited the same as
 Ex.PW3/A. 14.Thereafter, plaintiff did not examine any other witness in plantiff's
 evidence. Ex-parte plaintiff's evidence was closed. Ex-parte final CS No.206/2022 Page 5 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 arguments on behalf of plaintiff were heard and record perused. 15.It was argued by learned counsel for plaintiff that the plaintiff was
 an old lady aged 67 years and was a widow. She was earlier staying
 at her native village but shifted with her son and daughter in law in
 Delhi where they started residing together in a rented
 accommodation. Later on, the son of the plaintiff requested the
 plaintiff to help him to purchase the suit property as he was facing
 financial constraints in paying the rent. On the assurance that the
 property shall be purchased in the name of the plaintiff, the plaintiff
 paid Rs.9 lacs which was the price of the property out of her savings
 and disposing of her movable properties. She was kept under the
 impression that she was the owner of the property but she came to
 know about the fraud committed upon her when there was
 matrimonial dispute and defendants threatened to dispossess her.
 Thereafter, she filed a suit for declaring the sale deed as null and
 void and further prayed for directions to defendant no.3 to execute
 the sale deed in her name. 16.Learned counsel for the plaintiff has referred to two judgments of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court titled Anil Rishi Vs Gurbaksh Singh dated
 02.05.2006 wherein the Hon'ble Court held that "The onus to prove
 the validity of the deed of settlement was on the defendant No. 1.
 When fraud, misrepresentation or undue influence is alleged by a
 party in a suit, normally, the burden is on him to prove such fraud,
 undue influence or misrepresentation. But, when a person is in a
 fiduciary relationship with another and the latter is in a position of CS No.206/2022 Page 6 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 active confidence the burden of proving the absence of fraud,
 misrepresentation or undue influence is upon the person, in the
 dominating position, he has to prove that there was fair play in the
 transaction and that the apparent is the real, in other words, that
 the transaction is genuine and bona fide. In such a case the burden
 of proving the good faith of the transaction is thrown upon the
 dominant party, that is to say, the party who is in a position of
 active confidence. A person standing in a fiduciary relation to
 another has a duty to protect the interest given to his care and the
 Court watches all transactions between such persons so that the
 protector may not use his influence or the confidence to his
 advantage. When the party complaining shows such relation, the
 law presumes everything against the transaction and the onus is
 cast upon the person holding the position of confidence or trust to
 show that the transaction is perfectly fair and reasonable, that no
 advantage has been taken of his position". This Court in arriving at the aforementioned findings
 referred to Section 111 of the Indian Evidence Act which is in the
 following terms:- 17.The learned counsel has also referred to the judgment of Krishna CS No.206/2022 Page 7 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors Mohan Kul @ Nani Charan Kul & Anr Vs Pratima Maity & Ors dated 09.09.2003 wherein it has been held that "when fraud, mis-
 representation or undue influence is alleged by a party in a suit,
 normally, the burden is on him to prove such fraud, undue influence
 or misrepresentation. But, when a person is in a fiduciary
 relationship with another and the latter is in a position of active
 confidence the burden of proving the absence of fraud,
 misrepresentation or undue influence is upon the person in the
 dominating position, he has to prove that there was fair play in the
 transaction and that the apparent is the real, in other words, that
 the transaction is genuine and bona fide. In such a case the burden
 of proving the good faith of the transaction is thrown upon the
 dominant party, that is to say, the party who is in a position of
 active confidence. A person standing in a fiduciary relation to
 another has a duty to protect the interest given to his care and the
 Court watches with zealously all transactions between such persons
 so that the protector may not use his influence or the confidence to
 his advantage. When the party complaining shows such relation,
 the law presumes everything against the transaction and the onus is
 cast upon the person holding the position of confidence or trust to
 show that the transaction is perfectly fair and reasonable, that no
 advantage has been taken of his position. This principle has been
 engrained in Section 111 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (in short
 the ' Evidence Act '). The rule here laid down is in accordance with a
 principle long acknowledged and administered in Courts of Equity
 in England and America. This principle is that he who bargains in a
 matter of advantage with a person who places a confidence in him
 is bound to show that a proper and reasonable use has been made CS No.206/2022 Page 8 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 of that confidence. The transaction is not necessarily void ipso
 facto, nor is it necessary for those who inpeach it to establish that
 there has been fraud or imposition, but the burden of establishing
 its perfect fairness, adequacy and equity is cast upon the person in
 whom the confidence has been reposed. The rule applies equally to
 all persons standing in confidential relations with each other.
 Agents, trustees, executors, administrators, auctioneers, and others
 have been held to fall within the rule. The Section requires that the
 party on whom the burden of proof is laid should have been in a
 position of active confidence. Where fraud is alleged, the rule has
 been clearly established in England that in the case of a stranger
 equity will not set aside a voluntary deed or donation, however,
 improvident it may be, if it be free from the imputation of fraud,
 surprise, undue influence and spontaneously executed or made by
 the donor with his eyes open. Where an active, confidential, or
 fiduciary relation exists between the parties, there the burden of
 proof is on the donee or those claiming through him. It has further
 been laid down that where a person gains a great advantage over
 another by a voluntary instrument, the burden of proof is thrown
 upon the person receiving the benefit and he is under the necessity
 of showing that the transaction is fair and honest. In judging of the
 validity of transactions between persons standing in a confidential
 relation to each other, it is very material to see whether the person
 conferring a benefit on the other had competent and independent
 advice. The age or capacity of the person conferring the benefit and
 the nature of the benefit are of very great importance in such cases.
 It is always obligatory for the donor/beneficiary under a document
 to prove due execution of the document in accordance with law, CS No.206/2022 Page 9 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 even de hors the reasonableness or otherwise of the transaction, to
 avail of the benefit or claim rights under the document irrespective
 of the fact whether such party is the defendant or plaintiff before
 Court". 18.The judgments pointed out by learned counsel are not relevant to
 the facts of the present case as the plaintiff has not been able to
 prove that there was undue influence or that she was under some
 kind of incapacity. 19.After hearing the arguments and going through the record, it is
 observed that the plaintiff has not mentioned anywhere regarding
 her correspondence with defendant no.3 with respect to purchase of
 property. The entire case of the plaintiff is based on the allegation
 that she paid the complete consideration of suit property and
 therefore the same should be in her name. It is a settled law that
 consideration may follow from any person in a contract and mere
 payment of consideration does not create any right of the
 contributor or a person who had made the payment in the subject
 matter. The plaintiff has herself admitted the sale deed Ex.PW1/2 by
 virtue of which the property was purchased in the joint name of
 defendant no.1 and defendant no.2. Merely by virtue of the payment
 made, the plaintiff cannot claim her right over the property. 20.Further, from the documents it is clear that the sale deed was
 executed on in 2007 and the present case was filed in the year 2017
 which is clearly barred by limitation as the suit for declaration has CS No.206/2022 Page 10 of 11 Rukmani Devi Vs Shiv Kumar & Ors
 to be filed within three years from the date when the right to sue
 accrues. The plaintiff was aware about the right of the defendant
 no.2 in the property in the month of June 2014 itself when she
 demanded her right in the property after FIR was registered under section 498A / 494 / 406 / 323 / 506 / 34 IPC and even if it is presumed
 that the plaintiff came to know about the defendant no.2 being the
 joint owner at that point of time, the case is still barred by
 limitation. 21.Keeping in view the above discussion, I see nor merit in suit of the
 plaintiff. The suit is accordingly dismissed and disposed of. 22.No order for costs. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. The
 present decree is passed subject to filing of deficient court fees, if
 any. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance. Purva by Purva Sareen
 Date: