VIPIN SANGHI, J. 1. By this order, I proceed to dispose of the aforesaid application
preferred by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC to seek
interlocutory injunction. The relief sought in the said application is to seek
an ad-interim injunction against defendant, restraining it, its promoters, I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 1 of 119 assigns, successors-in-interest, licensees, franchisees, partners, directors,
representatives, servants, distributors, employees, agents etc. from using a
design/bottle, which is claimed to be a fraudulent or obvious imitation of
Design Representation No.244246, as well as any label/trade dress/get up
similar to that of plaintiff's registered trademark/label and trade dress/get up
in any manner whatsoever, upon and in relation to their
products/services/business; 2. The plaintiff claims to be a corporation organized and existing under
the laws of Denmark. The plaintiff states that it is using a unique and
distinctive bottle in respect of its product, viz. beer, under the brand
"TUBORG", design whereof is registered under the provisions of the Designs Act, 2000 . The novelty of the applicant's registered design resides
in the shape and configuration of the bottle. 3. The plaintiff is using its registered trademark, namely, "Clockman
Shape Label" which appears as follows: The worldwide figures of expenditure incurred between 2012 and 2014 are: 13. The plaintiff claims that the defendant has a history of trade mark
infringement. The defendant "was restrained by this Court from using the
trade mark TIGER CHAKRA which is deceptively similar to the registered
trade mark TIGER of Heineken Asia Pacific Breweries [Heineken Asia
Pacific Breweries v. Surjeet Lal & Ors. (CS(OS) 3318/2014)]. The same
speaks volumes on the conduct of the Defendant." 14. The plaintiff also claims that the conduct of the defendant was found
to be dishonest by the Bombay High Court in SABMiller India Ltd. v. Som
Distilleries and Breweries Ltd. , 2013 (54) PTC 291 (Bom), wherein the
Bombay High Court held: 15. When the suit and the present application came to be listed on
21.05.2015, the defendant was represented through its counsels. The record I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 11 of 119 shows that arguments were heard by this Court. The defendant made a
statement through counsel that till the next date of hearing, "'Hunter Beer'
in the new bottle shall not be launched in any new territory". The matter
was adjourned to 25.05.2015. On that date, the defendant was bound by the
statement made on 21.05.2015. The matter was adjourned to 26.05.2015,
when it was further adjourned to 27.05.2015. On the said date, the
defendant tendered in Court an affidavit which was taken on record. The
case was adjourned to 28.05.2015. On 28.05.2015, the Court passed the
following order: No new bottle could be introduced in the market. However, the defendant
stated that the period of four months was too short for the defendant to
recover the investment made in the purchase of the bottles in question.
Since the parties could not agree on the time to be granted to the defendant,
the matter was adjourned to 03.07.2015. 17. Thereafter, the case was adjourned from time to time by the learned
Judge. On 14.08.2015, the learned Judge released the matter from part-
heard, since the parties were not able to resolve the matter amicably. 18. On 21.08.2015, this Court extended the time for the defendant to
exhaust the 56 lakh odd bottles by marketing its product in the territories of
Delhi and Madhya Pradesh till the next date of hearing, which was fixed for
09.10.2015. Thus, the time granted to the defendant by the order dated
25.08.2015 stood extended till 09.10.2015. 19. The defendant preferred an appeal, being FAO (OS) No.594/2015, to
assail the order dated 25.08.2015. The said appeal was disposed on
20.10.2015 with a direction that the appellant/defendant may use only those
bottles which have not earlier been put to use, i.e. the appellant/defendant
was not permitted to recycle the bottles and use the recycled bottles. The
appellant/defendant disclosed that there are 11,40,000 such bottles which
have not been used earlier. The said order permitted the appellant/defendant
to sell its product in the bottles in question till 05.11.2015, which was the
date fixed for hearing of the interim application in the suit. 20. On 05.11.2015, the Court took up for consideration the defendants
application being I.A. No.21848/2015, whereby the defendant sought
clarification of the order dated 09.10.2015. The clarification sought by the
defendant was that the status quo and permission granted to the defendant to
use the 56 lakhs (approx.) bottles was operative till the next date of hearing. 21. The learned Single Judge dismissed the said application by passing
the following order: On 21.8.2015, this Court had recorded as under: Against the said order, limiting the time within which the
 bottles could be used for sale of the alcoholic beverage, the
 defendant went in appeal which, in turn, was dismissed by the
 Division Bench vide order dated 20.10.2015. The order reads
 as under:- Mr. Sandeep Sethi, the learned Senior Advocate for the
 applicant/defendant would submit that, even as of today,
 approximately 10,45,000/- bottles are stored unused in mint
 condition, hence permission be granted for sale of beer in these
 new bottles in Delhi. This is a suit seeking injunction against the defendant's design
 infringing the registered design of the plaintiff. The consent
 order passed on 28.5.2015 envisaged use of 56 lacs bottles.
 There was no lack of clarity as to time within which it would be
 done i.e. four months in Madhya Pradesh and one month in
 Delhi. The said time was extended by this Court for both the
 States till 9th October, 2015. The order leaves no room for
 doubt that what was contemplated was the sale of 56 lacs
 bottles of beer in bottles with the 'infringing design', only till
 9th October, 2015 and no further. The recycling of used bottles
 was not contemplated or referred to in previous orders. Hence, I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 16 of 119 the endeavour to have the time period extended, without
 consent, would not be justified. If the defendant were to be
 permitted to use the bottles till they were naturally exhausted,
 with a loss of approximately 20% the bottles in each cycle, it
 would take approximately one and a half years. Resultantly, the
 purported infringement of the registered design of the bottles
 would run into several millions of bottles. For the purpose of
 recovery of investment made by the defendant, the statutory
 rights and interests of the plaintiff, who has a registered design
 of the bottle, cannot be compromised. On a balance of
 convenience, this Court finds that it would not be fair at this
 interlocutory stage to permit the defendants to continue to sell
 beer in bottles which are prima facie identical to the
 registered bottle design of the plaintiffs. The application is
 without basis and is accordingly dismissed". (emphasis supplied) 22. Thus, the learned Single Judge was of the view that the order dated
28.05.2015 and 21.08.2015 "leaves no room for doubt that what was
contemplated was the sale of 56 lacs bottles of beer in bottles with the
'infringing design', only till 9th October, 2015 and no further. The recycling
of used bottles was not contemplated or referred to in previous orders.
Hence, the endeavour to have the time period extended, without consent,
would not be justified. If the defendant were to be permitted to use the
bottles till they were naturally exhausted, with a loss of approximately 20%
the bottles in each cycle, it would take approximately one and a half years.
Resultantly, the purported infringement of the registered design of the
bottles would run into several millions of bottles". 23. Dissatisfied with the aforesaid order, the defendant again preferred a
first appeal, being FAO No.628/2015, which was disposed of/ dismissed on
23.11.2015 by extending the time for the appellant/defendant to sell its beer I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 17 of 119 in the impugned bottles in the State of Delhi and Madhya Pradesh upto and
including 31.12.2015. The defendant then preferred a Special Leave
Petition being SLP (C) No.34251/2015. The Supreme Court on 14.12.2015
passed the following operative order: 24. It is in the aforesaid background that the present application has been
heard. The hearing commenced on 20.01.2016 and continued thereafter on
several dates. On 03.02.2016, this Court recorded the following order: Eventually, the hearing was concluded on 04.03.2016, and order
reserved. Since the same could not be pronounced earlier on account of the
heavy work load, and the fact that this case required consideration of the
detailed submissions which was time consuming, the matter was listed for
recapulation of submission on 16.09.2016. The submissions were
recapulated by the learned counsels and judgment reserved on 20.02.2017. Plaintiff's submissions 25. Mr. Sudhir Chandra, learned senior counsel for the plaintiff has,
firstly, drawn the attention of the Court to the affidavit of the defendant
dated 27.05.2015, which had been tendered in Court on the said date and
taken on record. He points out that in the said affidavit, the defendant had
conceded that the plaintiff had a valid registered design and that the
defendant was not contesting the same. The defendant after disclosing the
number of bottles, which had already been bottled and which remain to be
bottled, with the impugned design, had undertaken: 26. The defendant had further undertaken that: 27. Mr. Chandra submits that the aforesaid solemn statement made on
behalf of the defendant by the authorized representative of the defendant
constitutes an admission by the defendant of the fact that the defendant was
infringing the plaintiff's copyright in the bottle design. He submits that it
was on the basis of the aforesaid admission that the Court had passed the
order dated 28.05.2015. 28. He submits that the effect of the said admission made by the
defendant is recorded in the order dated 28.05.2015 in the following words: 29. Mr. Chandra submits that it was on account of the aforesaid admission
made by the defendant that it was permitted - as a one-time measure, to sell
its stocks which had already been manufactured for the State of Orissa,
Pondicherry, Kerala, and for the paramilitary forces. The defendant was
also permitted to sell its beer in the impugned bottles in the State of Delhi
and Madhya Pradesh for a period of four months, while making it clear that
no new bottle, other than 56,23,305 bottles which had already been
purchased by the defendant, shall be introduced in the said markets. The
Court had also recorded the undertaking of the defendant that no new order I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 20 of 119 for purchase of impugned bottles shall be placed, and no new advertisement
with regard to the impugned bottles shall be put in print or visual media.
Mr. Chandra submits that the defendant cannot be permitted to approbate
and reprobate at the same time. Having conceded to the plaintiff's copyright
in its registered bottle design, and on that basis obtained the leeway for
marketing its beer in the impugned bottle design, the defendant cannot now
seek to resile from its admissions. 30. Mr. Chandra submits that in view of the aforesaid admission made by
the defendant, the relief qua infringement of design should not only be
granted in the application, but a decree on admission should be passed in
favour of the plaintiff in that respect. Mr. Chandra submits that since the
claims of the plaintiff also pertain to infringement of its trademark in the
label, and also to the copying of the trade dress/get up and consequent
passing of, those aspects alone need to be addressed by the Court while
disposing of the application, at a prima facie stage. 31. Without prejudice to his aforesaid submission that the issue with
regard to infringement of the registered design of the plaintiff in its beer
bottle stands concluded on account of the admission made by the defendant,
on the aspect of infringement of the copyright in the plaintiffs design, Mr.
Chandra submits that the defendant is using a fraudulent imitation of the
plaintiff's registered bottle design which is liable to be injuncted by virtue of section 22 of the Designs Act, 2000. He submits that the copy must be a
fraudulent or obvious imitation and that imitation does not mean duplication.
It is not necessary that the infringing should be an exact replica of the
original registered design. It is the article as a whole which must be I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 21 of 119 compared and contrasted with the features or shape or configuration of the
registered design. In support of the aforesaid submission, he places reliance
on Castrol India Ltd. v. Tide Water Oil Co. (I) Ltd. , 1996 (16) PTC 202
(Cal). 32. Mr. Chandra submits that if the Court finds that there is substantial
and sufficient resemblance between the allegedly infringing design and the
registered design, an injunction should follow. In this regard, he places
reliance on Dabur India Ltd. v. Amit Jain & Anr., 2009 (39) PTC 104 (Del)
DB. 33. Since features of a registered design are to be judged solely by the
eye in respect of the essential features which form part of the registration,
the two articles, namely, one having the registered design and the infringing
article should, therefore, be judged visually and carefully with the eye of an
informed person in the trade. In this regard, he places reliance on Videocon
v. Whirlpool , 2012 SCC Online Bom 1171, and Whirlpool India Ltd. v.
Videocon Industries, 2014 (60) PTC 155 (Bom). 34. Mr. Chandra submits that merely because the defendant may have
also obtained registration of its design in its bottle is no ground to refuse
injunction and the present suit and the interim application would still be
maintainable and require consideration on merits. In this regard, he places
reliance on the Full Bench judgment in Mohan Lal v. Sona Paint , 2013 (55)
PTC 61 (Del) (FB). 35. Mr. Chandra submits that "mark" is defined in section 2(1)(m) of the
Trademarks Act, to include a label. Trademark is defined in Section I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 22 of 119 2(1)(zb) to mean a mark capable of being represented graphically, and
which is capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one person from
those of others, and may include the shape of goods, their packaging and
combination of colours. Thus, he submits that the novel shape of the
plaintiff's bottle - with grooves and indentations, coupled with the unique
label adopted by the plaintiff, have assumed trade mark significance, and
identify the product of the plaintiff i.e. beer under the mark TUBORG, with
the plaintiff. 36. Mr. Chandra has also drawn the attention of the Court to Section 29 of
the Trademarks Act, which sets out the circumstances in which the
registered trademark is infringed by a person. 37. Mr. Chandra submits that there is grave similarity in the mark/label
adopted by the defendant, with the registered trademark of the plaintiff and
the goods are also identical and, thus, there is every likelihood that the
consumer of beer from the infringing bottle-with the label and get up as
adopted by the defendant, would get confused. The public is also likely to
draw an association of the defendant's product, with the plaintiff's product
sold under the brand "TUBORG". 38. Mr. Chandra has relied on Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v.
Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories , AIR 1965 SC 980, to submit that
in an action for infringement the plaintiff must, no doubt, make out that the
use of the defendants mark is likely to deceive, but where the similarity
between the plaintiffs and the defendants mark is so close-either visually,
phonetically, or otherwise, and the Court reaches the conclusion that there is I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 23 of 119 an imitation, no further evidence is required to establish that the plaintiff
rights are violated. If the essential features of the trademark of the plaintiff
have been adopted by the defendant, the fact that the get up, packing and
other writing or marks on the goods, or on the packets in which he offers his
goods for sale show marked differences, or indicate clearly a trade origin
different from that of the registered proprietor of the mark, would be
immaterial; whereas in the case of passing off, the defendant may escape
liability if he can show that the added matter is sufficient to distinguish his
goods from those of the plaintiff. 39. Mr. Chandra submits that the essential feature of the plaintiff's
registered trademark in the label is its shape - which is the "Clockman Shape
Label". The same shape has been adopted by the defendant in respect of its
label. 40. Mr. Chandra also submits that the act of the defendant in adopting the
same trade dress gives an overall impression that the defendant's product
has the same source of origin as that of the plaintiff. He has placed reliance
on Parle Products (P) Ltd v. J.P. & Co., Mysore , (1972) 1 SCC 618,
wherein the Supreme Court has observed that to come to the conclusion
whether one mark is deceptively similar to another, the broad and essential
features of the two are to be considered. It is not the dissimilarities and
differences which are to be focused upon, but the overall similarity between
the registered trademark and the impugned mark which has to be considered.
It would be enough if the impugned mark bears such an overall similarity to
the registered mark, as would be likely to mislead a person usually dealing
with the goods into accepting the goods of another, if offered to him. 41. Mr. Chandra submits that the features already enumerated herein
above, and the general appearance of the two bottles-of the plaintiff and the
defendant, leaves no manner of doubt that the impugned packaging and get
up of the defendant is deceptively similar to that of the plaintiff. Mr.
Chandra submits that the Supreme Court in the aforesaid decision had laid
down the test, and applied the same in the following words: Mr. Chandra submits that if the same test is applied, there would be
no manner of doubt that the defendant's packaging and get up is deceptively
similar to that of the plaintiff. Mr. Chandra submits that the Court must
have regard to the overall similarity between the trade dress adopted by the
plaintiff and that adopted by the defendant. In this regard, he places
reliance on R.R. Oomerbhoy Pvt. Ltd. v. Court Receiver, High Court &
Anr., 2003 (27) PTC 580. 42. He has also placed reliance on Ramdev Food Products Pvt. Ltd. v.
Arvindbhai Rambhai Patel & Ors. , 2006 (33) PTC 281 (SC), wherein the
Supreme Court observed that in an action for infringement, where the
defendant's trade mark is identical with the plaintiff's registered mark, the
aspect of confusion is not required to be enquired into. 43. Mr. Chandra has placed reliance on Vicco Laboratories, Bombay v.
Hindustan Rimmer, Delhi , AIR 1979 Del 114, to submit that even though
the two brand names/ word marks TUBORG and HUNTER are distinct, and
by themselves may not cause confusion - that by itself is not determinative
of the issue of passing off. In this case, the two word marks in question
were "Vicco" and "Cosmos". However, the Court found that the entire get
up and colour scheme of the tubes and cartons adopted by the defendant
were identical in every detail with that of the plaintiff and were likely to
confuse and deceive the consumer easily. 44. Reliance is placed on Colgate Palmolive Company & Anr. v. Anchor
Health & Beauty Care Pvt. Ltd. , 2003 (27) PTC 478 (Del), wherein this
Court had observed: 45. Mr. Chandra submits that a label-which is registered as a trade mark,
contains several essential features, including its shape. He submits that since
the shape of the plaintiff's label in the present case is uncommon, it is an
essential feature of the said label mark. He submits that under Section
17(2)(b) of the Trade Marks Act, a mark which contains any matter which is
not common to trade, or is otherwise of a distinctive character, stands
protected on account of registration of the entire mark. He submits that in
any event, to obviate an argument founded upon Section 17(2) of the Act,
the plaintiff has already applied for registration of the shape of the label as a
trade mark, and the said application is pending. He, thus, submits that the
reliefs sought in the aforesaid application be granted to the plaintiff. Defendant's submissions 46. The application is opposed by the defendant. Ms. Pratibha Singh,
learned senior counsel for the defendant, firstly, submits that there is no
admission made by the defendant qua the claim of validity in its registered
design made by the plaintiff. Ms. Singh submits that the plaintiff is claiming
that the defendant has admitted and conceded to the plaintiff's rights in the
registered design in the affidavit dated 27.05.2015, which also forms the
basis of the recording of paragraph 'A' in the order dated 28.05.2015. Ms.
Singh submits that a perusal of the affidavit itself would show that the
defendant had made the statements-as contained in the said affidavit, during
the course of negotiations between the parties with a view to finally resolve
all the disputes in the suit. This is clear from paragraph 2 of the said
affidavit, wherein the defendant had expressly stated that "in order to bring
an end to the litigation between the parties, the defendant is not contesting
the registered design of the plaintiff ... ... ...". The defendant had also stated
in the same paragraph, that it was "according to the plaintiff" that there was
similarity in the design adopted by the defendant with that of the plaintiff for
packaging of its TUBORG Beer. Thus, there was no unqualified or clear
admission of similarity of the bottle design, trade mark, or trade dress. 47. She further submits that on the aforesaid aspect, the plea of the
plaintiff was rejected even by the Supreme Court, while passing the order
dated 14.12.2015 in S.L.P.(Civil) No.34251/2015. The plaintiff had sought
to urge before the Supreme Court that so far as the plaintiff's claim qua its
design is concerned, the suit had been decided. After noticing the orders I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 28 of 119 dated 28.05.2015, 03.07.2015, 14.08.2015, 21.08.2015 & 05.11.2015, the
Supreme Court observed that this contention of the plaintiff was not correct. 48. Ms. Singh submits that proposals made by the parties during the
course of negotiations are always "without prejudice", and in case the
settlement does not come about, such proposals cannot be held against, or to
be binding on the party making the same. She submits that if the Courts
were to bind the parties to their proposals made during the course of their
negotiations, no party would freely make a proposal on account of the risk
of being bound down to the same, even though the settlement may not
eventually be reached. She submits that in the present case, the parties
eventually did not arrive at a settlement, and thus, the said proposal cannot
be held against the defendant. 49. In support of her submission, she has placed reliance on Surinder
Kaur & Others Vs. S. Rajdev Singh & Others , 152 (2008) DLT 704. In the
said case the matter was taken in Chamber by the learned Judge and after
hearing them the Court had passed an order regarding the in-principle
settlement between them. One of the parties sought to enforce the said in-
principle settlement by moving an application under Order XXIII Rule 3
CPC on the basis of the terms recorded by the learned Judge in Chamber.
The Court observed that, in the order passed in Chamber, only the "basic
agreement" had been reached between the parties. The parties were aware
of the terms & conditions which had been settled, and certain details were
yet to be worked out by the parties in consultation with each other. The
Court observed: 50. The Court also considered the issue whether the plaintiff was entitled
to a judgment/ decree on admission contained in the recorded terms. The
Court rejected the plaintiffs' argument in this regard by observing: 51. The Court also noticed that the defendant had agreed to make
payment, not in admission of any liability but "to finish the litigation". Ms.
Singh submits that in the present case as well, the defendant had filed the
affidavit with a view to put an end to the litigation between the parties, as is
expressly recorded in the said affidavit, and not because the defendant
admits the claim of the plaintiff unconditionally. 52. Ms. Singh submits that the present suit has been structured as a suit
for infringement of a registered design of the plaintiff in its TUBORG beer
bottle, and the plaintiff has also sought the relief of infringement of the
registered trade mark in the label mark, and passing off in the same suit.
She submits that a composite suit for the said reliefs is not maintainable, as
held by the Full Bench of this Court in its decision dated 15.05.2013 in Mohan Lal, Proprietor of Mourya Industries Vs. Sona Paint &
Hardwares , 2013 (55) PTC 61 (Del.)(FB). The Full Bench formulated three
questions to be determined by it in the said decision . The third issue
formulated by the Full Bench was: 53. The Full Bench in its majority view held that since the cause of action
for bringing a suit for infringement of a registered design is different from
the cause of action on which a claim of passing off is premised, two separate
suits would have to be filed by the aggrieved plaintiff; though, if filed at the
same time, or in close proximity, they may be tried together as there may be
some aspects which may be common. Specific reference has been made to
paragraphs 24.3 and 25 of the majority view of the Full Bench, which read
as follows: 54. Ms. Singh further submits that the plaintiff was also conscious of this
position and, consequently, has preferred another civil suit alleging passing
off and seeking permanent injunction, delivery, rendition of accounts, etc.
being C.S.(O.S.) No. 3076/2015. In paragraph 4 of the said plaint, the
plaintiff has itself disclosed the filing of the present suit. The averment
made by the plaintiff in paragraph 4 of the plaint in the said suit reads as
follows: 55. Thus, Ms. Singh submits that the present suit should be treated as
confined to the issue of design infringement of the plaintiff's beer bottle
TUBORG, since the other suit raises the other issues, including of trade
mark infringement and trade dress passing off. Ms. Singh submits that
while examining the issue of design infringement, the test to be applied is of
a knowledgeable person, who knows the field, and not that of an unwary I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 33 of 119 customer. She submits that design resides in the shape of the bottle de hors
the label. Therefore, the bottle of the plaintiff de hors the label, would have
to be compared with the bottle of the defendant de hors the label, to
determine whether the registered design of the plaintiff has been infringed.
She submits that, even the defendant had obtained registration of its design
for its bottle during the pendency of the suit. She submits that when the
defendant's bottle is viewed from different angles and compared with the
plaintiff's bottle, marked dissimilarity are visible between the two. 56. The comparison of the designs of the plaintiff's and the defendant's
bottle, filed by the defendant, is as follows: 57. On the aspect of comparison of the design registration of the plaintiff
and of the defendant, the defendants have relied upon the following
differences in the two designs: 58. Ms. Singh submits that the defendant's brand of beer, namely,
HUNTER is a very well established brand which was introduced in 1995.
Since it is well accepted in the market, there was no reason for the defendant
to make any attempt to copy the plaintiff's design in its bottle, or the lable or
get up used for packaging and marketing TUBORG beer. She submits that
after more than 15 years of defendant's launch of beer HUNTER, sometime
in August 2011 the defendant started working on adoption of a new design
and get up for its HUNTER beer bottle. In this regard, attention has been
drawn to an email communication dated 18.08.2011 from one Rohit Bindal
of purpolefocus.com-one of the entities being considered to, inter alia,
revamp the packaging in respect of HUNTER beer. Other emails and
communications have also been placed on record, including a "Contact
Report: Session 8" prepared by Harish Bijoor Consultants, Bhopal India,
inter alia, in relation to "Hunter Relaunch". The same was received by the I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 38 of 119 defendant on 26.08.2011. While the defendant was still holding
consultations with one of the designers/ consultants, on 30.03.2012 the
plaintiff obtained registration of its design in its beer bottle in question.
Thus, the submission is that even prior to the launch of its beer bottle in
question by the plaintiff, the defendant was already engaged in consultations
with experts in the field to revamp its own beer bottle. 59. Reference is also made to the email communication dated 12.01.2012
sent by the defendant to a consultant-one Mr. Michael at
claessensinternational.com in relation to the designing of the HUNTER beer
bottle and its labels. On the same line is the email dated 30.07.2012
received from the consultant Claessens International containing their
proposal for undertaking the designing of the new HUNTER beer bottle.
The defendant also held consultations with other consultants, such as
Widecanvas and IPSOS. On 25.05.2012, the defendant had sent a email
communication to one Vidya Sen-a consultant, inter alia, stating: 60. Another consultant Ascentaz also made a proposal in relation to the
HUNTER brand of the defendant. In this respect, the defendant has placed
on record the email dated 07.12.2012, wherein the said consultant, inter alia,
stated: 61. Similarly, another consultant JTW sent a email communication
offering its services on 22.01.2013, inter alia, stating as follows: a. Basic primary research to be done in couple of key
 markets to understand key strengths and weakness of
 the brand by interacting with couple of retailers and
 consumers. b. New packaging and positioning line to be developed
 for bottles, cans and carton. c. Communication collaterals like, brand campaign
 including press, outdoor, shop signage, posters,
 banners, danglers, merchandise, etc (detailed scope of
 work will be fleshed out together). Given the time constraints of Feb 15th as cut off for
 packaging, we would need to depend on you for research
 inputs. We would like to concentrate significant time on
 packaging job. We can do this in two days- we can share
 a questionnaire which can be administered by your team
 and the inputs are wired back to us. Or you can, based
 on your experience share a detailed understanding of the
 brand (we can have a detailed call for the same)". (emphasis supplied) 62. In February 2013, the defendant finally commissioned Lowe Lintas to
revamp HUNTER bottle and the label. In this regard, reference is made to
several emails, including the email dated 07.02.2013 sent by the defendant
to the representatives of the consultant Lowe Lintas. Ms. Singh submits that
after a great deal of exchange of thoughts and ideas, and several meetings
between the defendant and its consultant, eventually, HUNTER beer bottle
with its present bottle design and lable were created. Almost two years were I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 41 of 119 spent by the defendant in considering several design options to zero-in on a
new bottle design and the label, and in its fine tuning. 63. The defendant has also placed on record the communications
exchanged with Lowe Lintas undertaken in the process of designing its
bottles and labels. In this regard, reference may be made to the email
communication of 20.08.2013, whereby Lowe Lintas sent to the defendant
the power point presentation of the revised labels pasted on green bottles.
The print out of the power point presentation itself has also been filed on
record. The said power point presentation contains several options offered
by the consultant. This is followed by another email communication of
26.08.2013 sent by the consultant to the defendant. The consultant stated
that they had a bottle shape recommendation, which would be sent to the
defendant. On 30.08.2013, the consultant forwarded its recommendations
for the bottle design. This email communication from the consultant Lowe
Lintas reads as follows: 27.11.2013, the consultant sent another email communication including the
modifications made by them in consultation with the defendant. In the
feedback given by the defendant to the consultant, the defendant, inter alia,
stated: 65. Similarly, emails were sent by the consultant in relation to
modifications suggested in the bottle groove and label options, as a result of
consultation between the parties on 24.12.2013, 09.01.2014, 27.02.2014,
19.03.2014, 15.10.2014 and so on. Eventually, the design finalized by the
defendant in consultation with the designer/consultant was sought to be
registered by making a design registration application on 28.11.2014.
Between December 2014 and January 2015, the defendant placed orders for
manufacture and supply of 60 lacs new bottle on the basis of the design
created by the consultant. The defendant has also placed on record several
invoices and delivery notes evidencing the purchase of bottles in April and
May 2015. Once the bottles were supplied, the defendant launched its
HUNTER brand of beer in the new bottle design and the label in the States
of Delhi and Madhya Pradesh in April 2015. 66. Thus, the submission of Ms. Singh is that the bottle design and label
adopted by the defendant is the result of a process of evolution premised on
the creativity of the consultant and the preference and feedback received
from the defendant, who also actively participated in the said process. She
submits that in this process neither the consultant, nor the defendant were
influenced by, or driven with the objective of copying either the plaintiff's
bottle design, or the label or the overall get up of the plaintiff's beer bottle
TUBORG. 67. Ms. Singh also places reliance on the certificate issued by the
defendant's consultant Lowe Lintas certifying that the defendant had
appointed them in February 2013 to design the bottle and label for their
brand HUNTER. The designs developed were conceptualized by Lowe
Lintas based on the feedback gathered from the defendant. The designs are
true and original to the best of their collective knowledge and experience.
The consultant also confirmed the receipt of Rs.18,33,943/- towards their fee
out of the total project fee of Rs.28,11,247/- for packaging and
communication campaign of HUNTER. 68. The defendant has also placed on record the label approval for the
HUNTER label in the various States such as Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh,
Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakand and Orissa. Ms. Singh submits that each
label approval costs lakhs of rupees and if the use of the same is injuncted,
the defendant would lose all the money invested to obtain approval of its
lable in several states. 69. Ms. Singh submits that from the communication exchanged with
Lowe Lintas, it would be seen that the criteria that was kept in mind by the
defendant and its consultant while designing the beer bottle shape, were
aspects such as grip, simplicity, uniqueness and feasibility. Several colour
options were considered and label shapes were also considered. The
defendants added 'wings' to the labels, to differentiate the same from
standard oval labels. The communications would show that initially the
design of the bottle had concave surface. However, the same was discarded
after testing, due to wrinkles being formed on the labels when affixed to the
belly of the bottle. 70. She further submits that the features claimed by the plaintiff to be
distinctive and unique in their bottle design are present in most bottles used
in the trade. She submits that a beer bottle is coloured green/ brown on
account of its functionality/ utility, and no monopoly can be claimed by the
plaintiff in respect of the same. The purpose is to prevent direct light from
falling on the beer content in the bottle so as to prevent its deterioration. In
this regard, she has referred to a print out placed on record containing
pictures of about 20 beer bottles in green colour, including that of the
plaintiff and the defendant. These contain pictures of beer bottles of other
popular brands such as Heineken, Kingfisher and Stella Artois. 71. She submits that the pull-of caps used by the plaintiff are also
common to trade in beverage industry, including in respect of beer bottles.
The defendant has placed on record photographs of several bottles used by
other brand owners for their beverages, including beer, which show the use
of pull-of caps by the manufacturers. These include beer bottles of the I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 45 of 119 brand Kingfisher, Kamenitza and Miller Highlife. Ms. Singh points out that
the plaintiff has no proprietary right in respect of use of pull of caps as the
United States Patent Office had granted a patent in respect of pull off caps in
the year 1984 to a Swedish inventor. Thus, the plaintiff has no proprietary
right in the use of pull off caps, and cannot seek an injunction against the
defendant's use of the said feature. 72. She submits that the oval and circular shape of labels with insignia is
also common to trade. In this regard, reference is made to the print out of
several labels used in the beer industry which are in circular and oval shape,
such as Amstel, Guinness, Bavaria, Yuengling Lager, Belhaven St.
Andrews, New Castle Brown Ale etc. The insignia can be prominently seen
in labels of Tiger, Joker I.P.A and Everards Sunchaser, apart from the labels
of the plaintiff and the defendant. The label of the defendant has 'wings' on
the two sides, which also appear in the label of Kingfisher, Kingdom and
Everards Sunchaser. 73. Ms. Singh submits that the making of grooves on the bottles are a
common practice in the trade. In this regard, reference is made to the print
out of pictures of several bottles of beer manufacturers such as Redd's,
Tanqueray, Cascade, Budweiser, Staropramen, Perla, Ursus, A. Le Coq,
Hebckoe, Bavaria. The defendant has placed on record the pictures of the
said bottles in support of its submission. 74. Mr. Singh submits that on a comparison of the labels used by the
plaintiff and the defendant, it would be seen that they are markedly different.
The label of the plaintiff is used and affixed at an angle. The insignia, thus, I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 46 of 119 appears at an angle. Even the placement/printing of the plaintiff's mark
TUBORG is at an angle. However, the defendant's mark is not placed or
printed at an angle. The insignia used by the defendant is also markly
different from that of the plaintiff. The two marks-of the plaintiff and the
defendant, namely, TUBORG and HUNTER are boldly and prominently
printed in different fonts, and different colour background in the respective
lables. The red colour used by the defendant for HUNTER is very
prominent, and there is no red colour used by the defendant in its label.
Whereas the defendant's label has wings specially designed by the
defendant's consultant in consultation with the defendant, the plaintiff's
label is circular with an insignia. The plaintiff prints the words "export
quality" on the upper part of the label, and "premium beer" on the lower part
of the said label, as opposed to the print of 'genuine quality' and 'strong' on
its label by the defendant. 75. Ms. Singh submits that the crown placed on the top of the label of the
plaintiff is also not new to the trade. In this regard, reference is made to the
label of Corona Extra (Mexico), Il Sud In Tavola (Italy), Case Riglio (Italy),
Bienvenue Noble Femme, Audacieuse Et Sage, Templars Birra Artigianale
(Italy), A. Le Coq etc. which appear as follows: 76. In response to the submissions of Mr. Chandra, with respect to the
alleged infringement of the plaintiff's trademark in the label, Ms. Singh has
submitted that the registration of the plaintiff's label grants protection qua
the entire label, as such, and its registration cannot be relied upon to seek
protection in respect of each and every aspect which has gone into the
making of the label individually. In this regard, she has placed reliance on Section 17 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, which reads as follows: 77. Ms. Singh has placed reliance on ITC Limited Vs. Philip Morris
Products SA and Ors. 166 (2010) DLT 177. In this case, the claim of
infringement made by plaintiff in respect of its welcome group mark/logo by
the defendant, was rejected. The Court in the course of its decision, inter
alia, observed as follows: 78. Ms. Singh has also sought to place reliance on the judgment of this
Court in Kellogg Company Vs. Pravin Kumar Bhadabhai 1996 PTC (16).
The plaintiff/appellant sought an injunction against the defendant/respondent
in respect of its carton used for selling cornflakes. The carton of the plaintiff I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 52 of 119 was described as "KELLOGG'S CORNFLAKES". The defendant was
selling its cornflakes in a carton more or less similar in size but with a title
'AIMS ARISTO CORN FLAKES' which was placed similarly as the
plaintiff's words, "KELLOGG'S CORNFLAKES". The plaintiff alleged
likelihood of confusion amongst the consumers in respect of the two
products. The learned Single Judge denied relief to the plaintiff and,
consequently, the plaintiff preferred an appeal. The Division Bench in para 9
of this decision observed as follows: 79. The Division Bench considered the decision of the House of Lords
delivered by Lords Halsbury LC in Schewappers Ltd. Vs. Gibbens (1905)
22 RPC-a decision dealing with a claim for injunction, founded on adoption
of similar trade dress, and, inter alia, observed: 86. This view was concurred by the Earl of Halsbury, who held that for a
registered design to be infringed "... ... it must be the exact thing; and any
difference, however trifling it may be or however unsubstantial, would
nevertheless protect it from being made the monopoly of the particular
designer who thought proper to take it". 87. Lord Shaw, in his concurrent view commented on the aspect of
novelty and originality of a design in the following words: 88. Ms. Singh submits that in the present case, the design registration
obtained by the plaintiff in respect of TUBORG beer bottle itself is suspect
since, firstly, there is no novelty in the said design - inasmuch, as, the same
is like any other bottle having the same basic features of a round base; a
cylindrical body; a longish neck, and; proportionate round opening/ mouth.
She submits that, in any event, even if the peculiar indentations in the
plaintiff's design are considered novel, original and creative enough to
warrant design registration, unless the same design has been copied
practically in its entirety, the same would not tantamount to infringement of
the design as, even a small difference is capable of distinguishing the design
of another. The differences in the design adopted by the plaintiff and that
adopted by the defendant in respect of their respective beer bottles are far
greater than being mere trifling or unsubstantial. Even if the difference had
been trifling or unsubstantial, the same would not have amounted to
infringement of the plaintiffs beer bottle design. 89. Ms. Singh has next placed reliance on Negretti & Zambra v. WF
Stanley & Co., RPC (42) 358. In this case, the court was dealing with an
action for infringement for registered design in respect of a stove
thermometer. The plaintiffs thermometer had an inlet tube bent at a right
angle and a projecting and inclined flat scale face, the novelty claimed being
"the stove thermometer having the scale face A projecting and being
inclined as shown". The only substantial difference between the plaintiffs'
design and the alleged infringement was that the defendants' thermometer
had a V shaped scale face. The Chancery Division held that all the element
in the plaintiffs' design (except the means for securing the thermometer to I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 58 of 119 the stove) were old, and all that the plaintiffs had done, was to apply trade
variants or trade adjustments well known and common for the purpose of
making an instrument useful for the purpose for which it was intended. The
fact that the plaintiff had produced an article of commerce, the utility of
which had been demonstrated, was held to be wholly immaterial. It was
held that the design of the plaintiff was not new or original. Having regard
to the extreme slightness of the differences between the design of the
plaintiff and the thermometers which had preceded it, the court held that
there was sufficient distinction between the defendants' thermometer article
and the plaintiffs' design to prevent the defendants' design to be an
infringement of the plaintiffs' design. Thus, it was held that even if the
plaintiffs design were held to be valid, the action should fail. In the course
of its decision, the Chancery Division placed reliance on Gramophone
(supra) and, in particular, on the proposition laid down in the said decision
that in order to succeed in its claim of design infringement, the plaintiff must
show that the article complained of is an exact reproduction of his design,
and that any difference, howsoever ordinary or unsubstantial, will or may
protect it from infringement. While comparing the two designs before it, the
court observed: 90. Ms. Singh also places reliance on Phillips v. Harbo Rubber
Company, 37 RPC 433. In this case, the plaintiff had claimed design
registration in respect of the surface pattern of rubber pads or plates for heels
of boots and shoes. The defendant claimed that there was no novelty or
originality in the plaintiffs' design. Alternatively, it was claimed that the
defendants' design being different, the plaintiffs' registered design is not
infringed. The trial court agreed with the defendants' submission that there
was no substantial novelty or originality of the plaintiffs' combination of old
parts. The appeal was dismissed by the court of appeal. The House of Lords
held that a design cannot be rendered new or original merely by a change of
mode of construction of an article. It was held that no design could be
considered as new or original, unless it is distinguished from what
previously existed, by something different from ordinary trade variants. In
the course of its discussion, Lord Moulton observed that questions of the
meaning of a design and of the fact of its infringement are matters to be
judged by the eye. It is necessary to determine the question of infringement,
and still more to determine the question of novelty or originality, that the
eye should be of an instructed person i.e. that he should know what was
common trade knowledge and usage, in the class of articles to which the
design applies. The introduction of ordinary trade variants into an old design
cannot make it new and original. For example, if it is common practice to
have spikes in the sole of running shoes, a man does not make a new and
original design out of an old type of running shoe by putting spike into the
soles. He observed : 91. He further observed that it was the duty of the Court: 92. The submission of Ms. Singh is that mere creation of a groove or
indentations in the beer bottle by the plaintiff does not result in creation of a
novel and original design, as indentations and grooves in bottles for
beverages are well known and common to trade. 93. She also places reliance on Gaskell & Chambers Ltd. v. Measure
Master Ltd., 1993 RPC 76. In this decision, the learned Judge set out the
mechanism/ test that a court would adopt to judge, for itself, the aspect of
infringement of a registered design in the following words: 94. Ms. Singh submits that this court should, therefore, consider the shape
and configuration of the plaintiff's beer bottle, de hors the label and
compare the same with other beer bottles which constitute prior art, as also
with that of the defendant - without the label. The court should compare the
features which appeal to it and which are judged solely by the eye on the
competing bottles. She submits that if this exercise is carried out, it would
be clear to the court that there is no novelty or originality in the plaintiff's
claimed design and, in any event, there is no infringement of the plaintiff's
registered design by the defendant, since the shape and configuration of the
defendant's beer bottle is not identical in respect of features which the
plaintiff claims to be novel in its own design. 95. Ms. Singh has also placed reliance on Repetition Woodwork Co. v. M
Briggs, 41 RPC 449. In this decision, the plaintiff - a registered proprietor I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 63 of 119 of design of a 'combined press for neckties or the like and box to contain
collars and other articles', commenced an action for infringement of his
design. The defendant's box differed in several respects. Firstly, the court
held that there was no novelty or originality in the plaintiffs' design. The
plaintiffs' design was merely a particular arrangement of old and well
known things. The court further held that even if it were to be assumed that
the plaintiff had a valid registration in respect of its design, there were six
small differences between the defendant's articles and the plaintiffs' design.
Since, an exact reproduction was necessary to constitute infringement, it was
held that the defendant had not infringed the plaintiffs' registered design.
The court relied on Gramophone (supra) in coming to its aforesaid
conclusions. While holding that the defendant had not infringed the
plaintiffs' design, the court held that "Although each one of these differences
when taken separately may well be said not to be very substantial, yet when
taken all together they cause the defendant's box, both when closed and
when opened, to present an appearance substantially different from that of
the plaintiffs design". 96. Ms. Singh submits that several differences exist in the indentations
and dimensions of the beer bottle of the plaintiff, when compared to that of
the defendant, and when they are taken as a whole, they constitute
substantial difference in the designs of the two bottles. 97. Ms. Singh has also placed reliance on a decision of the Calcutta High
Court in Polar Industries Ltd. v. Usha International Ltd. & Ors. , 2000 (20)
PTC 469 (Cal). The product in respect of which design infringement action
was commenced by the plaintiff in this case was a table fan/ portable fan. While making its claim for registration of its design of table fan, the plaintiff
had claimed that "the novelty resides in the shape, configuration or
ornamentation of the table fan". The court held that this claim means that
the novelty is claimed in the design as a whole. The court observed that an
overall view of the registered design of the plaintiff-comprising of
configuration, shape and ornamentation will have to be considered for the
purpose of comparison. The component parts of the said registered design
of the plaintiff could not be viewed in isolation, to determine as to what are
its striking features. The court invoked the principal laid down in Gramophone (supra) while examining the question as to whether the design
of the defendant-as applied to its portable fan, "is an obvious imitation" of
the registered design of the plaintiff, when applied to its portable fan. 98. Ms. Singh has placed reliance on Dabur India Ltd. v. Rajesh Kumar ,
2008 (37) PTC 227. The plaintiff claimed infringement of its registered
design and its bottle used for marketing Dabur Amla Hair Oil. The plaintiff
claimed to have a distinctive design-having semi circular shoulder with
curvaceous back and front panel, converging taperly into each other in
respect of its hair oil bottle. The plaintiff claimed that the shape and
configuration of its bottle was unique, novel and original and was,
accordingly, registered under the Designs Act . The plaintiff claimed that the
green cap put over the bottle was also unique and was also registered under
the Designs Act . The bottles were having embossing of the plaintiff's
trademark "Dabur" at the bottom. The defendants were manufacturing
plastic bottles-which were claimed to be imitation of bottle of the plaintiff,
having embossing of "Dabur" trademark on the bottom, which were being I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 65 of 119 sold by the defendant to counterfeiters of Dabur Amla Hair Oil. The
defendant denied the plaintiff's claim, including its claim that the
defendant's bottles were embossed with the trademark "Dabur" at the
bottom or at any other place on its bottle. The court found the said averment
of the plaintiff to be false. On a comparison of the bottles of the plaintiff
and the defendant, the court observed as follows: 99. Another decision of this court in Dabur India Ltd. v. Amit Jain &
Anr passed in IA No.1910 in CS(OS) No.314/2007 was also relied upon. In
that decision, the court had observed: ...... (emphasis supplied) 100. In the aforesaid circumstances, the court held that the plaintiff had not
made out a strong prima facie case of design infringement. Consequently,
the ex-parte order of injunction against the defendant was vacated. 101. Ms. Singh submits that in the present case as well, the design of the
beer bottle of the plaintiff is common to trade. There is nothing new about
the shape of the bottle which the plaintiff has adopted. Similar shape bottles
are being used by other manufacturers of beverages and particularly beer.
Ms. Singh has also tendered in Court an Article titled, "The Origins and Life
of the Export Beer Bottle" by Bill Lockhart published by the Society for
Historical Archeological in its May-June 2007 Issue, to submit that shape of
the beer bottle-historically, has more or less remain the same and there is not
much change in the same since then. She submits that beer bottles
historically have been manufactured with a longish neck. She has also relied
upon the designs of beer bottles depicted in the said article. The colour of
the beer bottles - historically, have been green and brown. Some of the
figures of beer bottles in this article are as follows: 102. The article also states: Because of their size, color and gently sloping shoulders,
 these are easily mistaken for champagne bottles. x x x x x x x x x x
 Returnable Beer Bottles and Transportation

 In general, beer bottle development followed two different
 regional patterns in the United States. The Midwest, South and
 East Coast states tended toward three major beer bottles styles: 103. Ms. Singh submits that when serious disputed question arise about the
design, lack of originality, trade variants etc., injunction will not follow as a
matter of routine. She submits that the plaintiff did not seek novelty in any
specific aspect while claiming registration. No specific dimensional ratios
of the bottle have been disclosed in the design. In any event the dimensions
of the defendant HUNTER bottle are different. Thus, the plaintiff is not
entitled to any protection of the said design. To the same effect is the
decision of this court in S.K. Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. Deepak Ghosh , 2010
(42) PTC 96. 104. Ms. Singh submits that it is well known that consumers of liquor
constitute an informed class. She submits that, in fact, it was the case of the
plaintiff itself in Carlsberg India Pvt. Ltd. v. Radico Khaitan Ltd. , 2012
(49) PTC 54 that the Court held that "consumer of alcohol is an informed
consumer and would not be misled, as claimed by Radico, not only for the
reason that the two products are different but even for the reason that the
price difference of the two products is substantial ...". She submits that the
plaintiff cannot now be heard to say that consumers of beer would be misled I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 71 of 119 on account of the design of the bottles of the plaintiff being, allegedly, same
as that of the defendant, or even on account of similarity of the labels of the
two parties. 105. Reliance is placed by Ms. Singh on Steelbird Hi-Tch India Ltd. v.
S.P.S. Gambhir & Ors. , 2014 (58) PTC 428 (Del). In this case, the Court
was considering the claim of the plaintiff to seek an interim injunction
against the infringement of its registered design in respect of helmets. The
learned Judge while dismissing the plaintiff's application referred to the
view expressed by Buckley L.J. on the question of quantum of novelty in
Simmons v. Mathieson & Cold., 1911 (28) RPC 486 in the following
words: 106. The Court proceeded to consider whether the plaintiff's design was
new or original or different from what had been done before. The certificate
itself was held not to throw any light since the claim of novelty was for the
whole shape, configuration and surface pattern of the helmet. The learned
Judge referred to Dover Ltd. v. Nurnberger Celluloidwaren Fabric
Gebruder Wolff, 27 RPC 498, where Buckley L.J. drew the distinction
between "new" and "original". The learned Single Judge by reference to this
decision observed: 19. It is rightly held in the cases decided that in the matter of
 novelty the eye is to be the ultimate test and the determination
 has to be on the normal ocular impression. In order to know
 its newness or originality it is necessary that a design identical
 with or even materially similar to the relevant design should
 not have been published or registered previously. A slight
 trivial or infinitesimal variation, from a pre-existing design
 will not qualify it for registration. Taking into account the
 nature of the article involved, the change introduced should
 be substantial. It is not necessary to justify registration that
 the whole of the design should be new, the newness may be
 confined to only a part of it but that part must be a significant
 one and it should be potent enough to impart to the whole
 design a distinct identity, unless registration is sought for the
 said part alone." (emphasis supplied) 107. The Court held: Plaintiff's submissions in Rejoinder 108. In response to the submissions of Ms. Singh premised on Mohan Lal (supra), Mr. Chandra has submitted that the decision of the Full Bench is per
incuriam, inasmuch, as, firstly, the statutory provision contained in Order 2
Rule 3 CPC has been overlooked, and the judgment of the Supreme Court in Dabur India Ltd. Vs. K.R. Industries (2008) 10 SCC 595 has not been
correctly appreciated by the Full Bench. Mr. Chandra points out that Order
2 Rule 3 CPC specifically provides for joinder of different causes of action
in the same suit. It provides that the plaintiff "may unite in the same suit
several causes of action against the same defendant, or the same defendants
jointly; and any plaintiffs having causes of action in which they are jointly
interested against the same defendant or the same defendants jointly may
unite such causes of action in the same suit." Thus, the causes of action in
respect of the infringement of a registered design can be clubbed with the
cause of action arising on account of the infringement of a registered trade
mark, or cause of action relating to claim of passing off, since the parties are
the same. He points out that in Mohan Lal (supra), the Full Bench observed
that different causes of action cannot be combined in one suit and for that
purpose places reliance on K.R. Industries (supra), whereas, K.R. Industries (supra) says just to the contrary. In this regard, he points out that the
Supreme Court held that two causes of action may not be joined in the same
suit, if the same Court does not have the territorial jurisdiction to deal with
both of them. He has referred to para 19, 23, 24 and 34 of the said decision in K.R. Industries (supra) which read as follows: Noticing the provisions of Order 2 Rules 2 and 3 of the Code
 of Civil Procedure enabling the plaintiff to combine more
 than one causes of action, it was opined that the said
 provisions relate to pecuniary jurisdiction. The said
 jurisdiction, however, can be exercised only in the event the
 court has otherwise jurisdiction in respect of the cause of
 action wherefor the action has been brought. xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 23. It was also noticed that in a given case the petition under
 the 1957 Act or the 1958 Act may be overlapping, holding: Such additional forum was provided so as to enable the
 author to file a suit who may not otherwise be in a position
 to file a suit at different places where his copyright was
 violated. Parliament while enacting the Trade and
 Merchandise Marks Act in the year 1958 was aware of the
 provisions of the 1957 Act. It still did not choose to make a
 similar provision therein. Such an omission may be held to
 be a conscious action on the part of Parliament. The I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 75 of 119 intention of Parliament in not providing for an additional
 forum in relation to the violation of the 1958 Act is,
 therefore, clear and explicit." 24. Noticing that whereas in Dhodha House [AIR 1998 All
 43] the infringement complained of primarily was that of the
 1958 Act and not under the 1957 Act, in Patel Field
 Marshal [AIR 1998 Del 225] the thrust was on the sale of
 products and/or advertisement by the appellant for registration
 of trade marks in the Trade Marks Journal and other local
 papers. The law was stated in the following terms: (Dhodha
 House case [(2006) 9 SCC 41] , SCC p. 56, para 54)
 "54. For the purpose of invoking the jurisdiction of a
 court only because two causes of action joined in terms of
 the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure , the same
 would not mean that thereby the jurisdiction can be
 conferred upon a court which had jurisdiction to try only
 the suit in respect of one cause of action and not the other.
 Recourse to the additional forum, however, in a given case,
 may be taken if both the causes of action arise within the
 jurisdiction of the court which otherwise had the necessary
 jurisdiction to decide all the issues."(emphasis supplied)

 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 34. What then would be meant by a composite suit? A
 composite suit would not entitle a court to entertain a suit in
 respect whereof it has no jurisdiction, territorial or otherwise.
 Order 2 Rule 3 of the Code specifically states so and, thus,
 there is no reason as to why the same should be ignored. A
 composite suit within the provisions of the 1957 Act as
 considered in Dhodha House [(2006) 9 SCC 41] , therefore,
 would mean the suit which is founded on infringement of a
 copyright and wherein the incidental power of the court is
 required to be invoked. A plaintiff may seek a remedy which
 can otherwise be granted by the court. It was that aspect of the
 matter which had not been considered in Dhodha
 House [(2006) 9 SCC 41] but it never meant that two suits I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 76 of 119 having different causes of action can be clubbed together as a
 composite suit."(emphasis supplied) 109. He, therefore, submits that the Full Bench did not correctly appreciate
the conclusion drawn in para 34 of the above decision, and failed to
appreciate that two causes of action cannot be clubbed in a composite suit,
only where they do not arise within the jurisdiction of the same Court. He
has also placed reliance on two other decisions of the Supreme Court in Paragon Rubber Industries & Ors. Vs. Pragathi Rubber Mills & Ors. 2014
(57) PTC 1; and Dhodha House Vs. S.K.Maingi (2006) 9 SCC 41, which
are also considered in Dabur India Ltd. (supra). In Paragon Rubber
Industries & Ors. (supra), the Supreme Court takes notice of Dhodha
House (supra), and observes: 110. Mr. Chandra has argued that if this Court is faced with decision of a
Larger Bench of this Court on the one hand, and the decisions of the
Supreme Court on the other hand, which hold otherwise, this Court is bound
to follow the judgments of the Supreme Court and by doing so, this Court
would not be committing any judicial impropriety. 111. Mr. Chandra has sought to place reliance on State of U.P. and
another Vs. Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. and another (1991) 4 SCC 139
(hereinafter referred to as 'Synthetics and Chemicals -2') to submit that the
Supreme Court held, as per incuriam, the observations made in the
Constitution Bench judgment in Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. Vs. State of
U.P. (1990) 1 SCC 109 (hereinafter referred to as 'Synthetics and
Chemicals-1'). Specific reference has been made to paragraphs 36,39,40,41 I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 78 of 119 and 42 of this decision in SCL-2, the relevant extracts whereof read as
follows; 42. Effort was made to support the conclusion, indirectly, by
 urging that the State having raised same objections by way of
 review petition and the same having been rejected it amounted
 impliedly as providing reason for conclusion. Law declared is
 not that can be culled out but that which is stated as law to be
 accepted and applied. A conclusion without reference to
 relevant provision of law is weaker than even casual
 observation. In the order of Brother Thommen, the extracts
 from the judgment of the Constitution Bench quoted in extenso
 demonstrate that the question of validity of levy of sales and
 purchase tax was neither in issue nor was it raised nor is
 there any discussion in the judgment except of course the
 stray argument advanced by the learned Attorney General to
 the following effect: (SCC p. 139, para 43)
 "But alcohol not fit for human consumption are not
 luxuries and as such the State legislatures, according to
 Attorney General, will have no power to levy tax on such
 alcohol." Sales tax or purchase tax under Entry 54 is levied on sale or
 purchase of goods. It does not contemplate any distinction
 between luxury and necessity. Luxuries are separately taxable
 under Entry 62. But that has nothing to do with Entry 54. What
 prompted this submission is not clear. Neither there was any
 occasion nor there is any constitutional inhibition or statutory
 restriction under the legislative entry nor does the taxing
 statute make any distinction between luxuries and necessities
 for levying tax. In any case the bench did not examine it nor
 did it base its conclusions on it. In absence of any discussion
 or any argument the order was founded on a mistake of fact
 and, therefore, it could not be held to be law declared. The
 bench further was not apprised of earlier Constitution Bench
 decisions in Hoechst Chemicals v. State of Bihar [(1983) 4 SCC
 45 : 1983 SCC (Tax) 248 : AIR 1983 SC 1019] and Ganga I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 81 of 119 Sugar Mill v. State of U.P. [(1980) 1 SCC 223 : 1980 SCC
 (Tax) 90 : (1980) 1 SCR 769] which specifically dealt with the
 legislative competence of levying sales tax in respect of any
 industry which had been declared to be of public importance.
 Therefore, the conclusion of law by the Constitution Bench
 that no sales or purchase tax could be levied on industrial
 alcohol with utmost respect fell in both the exceptions,
 namely, rule of sub-silentio and being in per incuriam, to the
 binding authority of the precedents." (emphasis supplied) 112. He has also placed reliance on Subhash Chandra and another Vs.
Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board and others (2009) 15 SCC 458
wherein the Supreme Court held that it is now a well settled principle of law
that a Division Bench-in case of conflict between a decision of a Division
Bench of two judges and a decision of a Larger Bench, and in particular
Constitution Bench, would be bound by the latter. (See Sardar Associates
Vs. Punjab & Sind Bank (2009) 8 SCC 257). 113. Mr. Chandra submits that majority view in Mohan Lal (supra) is a
result of the Hon'ble Judges ignoring to take into account the express
provision contained in Order 2 Rule 3 CPC , as well as observations made in K.R. Industries (supra) in the correct perspective. In this respect, he read
para 100 from the aforesaid decision in Subhash Chandra (supra) which
reads as follows: 114. Mr. Chandra has also placed reliance on Chauharya Tripathi and
others Vs. Life Insurance Corporation of India and Others (2015) 7 SCC
263 to submit that a case is only an authority for what it actually decides,
and not what logically follows therefrom. 115. In response to the submission of Ms. Singh with regard to the
investment allegedly made by the defendant in the development of its own
design; procurement of bottles with the infringing design, and; the obtaining I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 83 of 119 of licenses from various States, Mr. Chandra submits that if the design
adopted by the defendant is in infringement of the plaintiff's registered
design for its beer bottles and if the plaintiff's trademark in its registered
label is infringed and the overall get up of the plaintiff's beer bottle, or if
there is passing off by the defendant on account of a confusing overall get
up of the defendant's beer bottle, the extent of monetary investment incurred
by the defendant is not a relevant consideration and would not prevent this
Court from granting an injunction against the defendant. In this regard, he
places reliance on Thermos Ltd. v. Alladdin Sales and Marketing Ltd.,
2000 FSR June 402. 116. The submission of Ms. Singh that there are others in the market with
similar beer bottle designs and with similar label or trade dress as adopted
by the plaintiff in respect whereof the plaintiff has not initiated action, Mr.
Chandra submits that the plaintiff is not expected to sue all small type of
infringers who may not be affecting the plaintiff's business. In this regard,
he places reliance on Pankaj Goel v. Dabur India Ltd. , 2008 (38) PTC
(Del) (DB) and Prakash Roadline Ltd. v. Prakash Parcel Services Pvt.
Ltd., PTC (suppl) (2) 177 (Del). Defendant's submission in Sur-Rejoinder 117. To counter the submission of Mr. Chandra, that this Court should
follow the decision of the Supreme Court in K.R. Industries (supra) in
preference to the judgment of the Full Court in Mohan Lal (supra), Ms.
Singh has argued that the correct course of action for this Court to adopt
would be to invite the attention of the Chief Justice, and request the matter
for being placed for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum than the Bench I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 84 of 119 whose decision has come up for consideration. In this regard, she has placed
reliance on Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community and another Vs.
State of Maharashtra and another (2005) 2 SCC 673. Discussion 118. Having heard learned Senior Counsels at length and considered their
submissions, at the outset, I must first deal with the submission of Ms. Singh
premised on the judgment of the Full Bench in Mohan Lal (supra). The
submission of Ms. Singh is that a composite suit for infringement of
registered design and for infringement of trade mark and passing off would
not lie. She submitted that, being mindful of this position, the plaintiff has
already filed a separate suit for infringement of the registered trade mark and
passing off and, consequently, the present suit should be confined to a
consideration of the plaintiff's case with regard to the alleged infringement
of the registered design, and nothing more. 119. The submissions of Mr. Chandra, raising a doubt with regard to the
correctness of the decision of the Full Bench in Mohan Lal (supra) on the
aspect of maintainability of a single suit in relation to the different causes of
action, namely, infringement of registered design and infringement of a
trade mark/passing off are indeed forceful. The Full Bench, in Mohan Lal (supra) in para 34 (iii) has observed as follows: 120. It appears on a reading of the decision in Mohan Lal (supra) that Order 2 Rule 3 CPC may have escaped the attention of the Full Bench. There is also force in the submission of Mr. Chandra that the observations
made in K.R. Industries (supra) may not have been appreciated in the
correct context. However, this Court cannot ignore and go contrary to a
judgment of the Full Bench of this very Court. 121. Synthetics and Chemicals-2 is not apposite in the facts of the present
case. This is for the reason that the observations made by the Supreme
Court in the decision of Synthetics and Chemicals-1 were found to be
"abrupt observation without a preceding discussion, and inconsistent with
the reasoning adopted by this Court in earlier decisions from which no
dissent was expressed on the point". In this context, para 14 of the
Synthetics and Chemicals -2 may be taken note of, which reads as follows: Reference to Entry 51 of List II ought to have been made if it
 was excise duty that the court had in mind. Entry 54 of List II
 would have been referred to, and not Entry 52, if the court had
 in mind sales tax. On the other hand, Entry 52 refers to "Taxes
 on the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use or
 sale therein". None had a case that this entry had any
 application to the fees or charges in question. The Court further
 says: (SCC p. 158, para 86)
 "However, sales tax cannot be charged on
 industrial alcohol in the present case, because
 under the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) Orders
 sales tax cannot be charged by the State on
 industrial alcohol." That was an abrupt observation without a preceding
 discussion, and inconsistent with the reasoning adopted by
 this Court in earlier decisions from which no dissent was
 expressed on the point. Coming, as it does, immediately after a
 reference to Entry 52 of List II in connection with excise duty
 and sales tax when neither falls under that entry, the
 submission of the Advocate General that the observation
 regarding sales tax in para 86 of the judgment was per
 incuriam assumes great significance. (emphasis supplied)

 Similarly, in para 39 (in the concurrent judgment by Sahai, J.), the
Supreme Court observed; 122. In para 36 of the same decision, the Supreme Court held that the
Synthetics and Chemicals-1 decision was not an authority for the
proposition canvassed by the assessee in challenging the provision. In this
context, the Supreme Court observed in Synthetics and Chemicals-2 that the
reference to sales tax in para 86 of that judgment (in Synthetics and
Chemicals-1) was merely accidental, or per incuriam and has, therefore, no
effect on the impugned levy. 123. In para 41 of the Synthetics and Chemicals-2 decision, the Supreme
Court noticed the rule of sub-silentio which has been quoted hereinabove. I
have deliberately highlighted the relevant observation of the Supreme Court
in Synthetics and Chemicals-2 only to emphasize that what was held as per
incuriam vis -a-vis Synthetics and Chemicals-1, was not the issue arising;
raised, or; considered by the Supreme Court in Synthetics and Chemicals-1. 124. However, the position is materially different in the present case. In Mohan Lal (supra), the Full Bench expressly set out the issues which were
referred to it by the learned Single Judge. Issue No.3 as referred to the Full
Bench, reads as follows: Thus, the said issue was present to the mind of the Full Bench, and it
was, accordingly, answered by the Full Bench after a discussion on the
subject. 125. Reliance placed by Mr. Chandra on Subhash Chandra (supra) is
misplaced for the reason that this was a case of conflict of opinion between a
decision of a Division Bench of two Judges, and a decision of a larger
Bench, and, in particular, Constitution Bench. The Supreme Court held that
the Division Bench would be bound by the larger bench decision. The same
is not the case in the present situation. Sitting singly, this Court cannot
ignore the decision of the Full Bench. 126. Chauharya Tripathi (supra) is also not relevant for the reason that it
merely invoked the principle that, "a case is only an authority for what it
actually decides and not what logically follows from it", as held in Quinn
Vs. Leathem 1901 AC 495: (1900-03) All ER Rep 1 (HL). In Mohan Lal (supra), the Full Bench has expressly held that a composite suit for design
infringement and passing off is not maintainable. 127. In Dawoodi Bohra (supra), the Supreme Court summed up the legal
position on the subject as follows: 2005.] A Bench of lesser quorum cannot
 disagree or dissent from the view of the law
 taken by a Bench of larger quorum. In case of I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 89 of 119 doubt all that the Bench of lesser quorum can do
 is to invite the attention of the Chief Justice and
 request for the matter being placed for hearing
 before a Bench of larger quorum than the
 Bench whose decision has come up for
 consideration. It will be open only for a Bench
 of coequal strength to express an opinion
 doubting the correctness of the view taken by the
 earlier Bench of coequal strength, whereupon
 the matter may be placed for hearing before a
 Bench consisting of a quorum larger than the
 one which pronounced the decision laying down
 the law the correctness of which is doubted. (3) [Ed.: Para 12(3) corrected vide Official
 Corrigendum No. F.3/Ed.B.J./7/2005 dated 17-1-
 2005.] The above rules are subject to two
 exceptions: (i) the abovesaid rules do not bind the
 discretion of the Chief Justice in whom vests the
 power of framing the roster and who can direct
 any particular matter to be placed for hearing
 before any particular Bench of any strength; and (ii) in spite of the rules laid down hereinabove, if
 the matter has already come up for hearing
 before a Bench of larger quorum and that Bench
 itself feels that the view of the law taken by a
 Bench of lesser quorum, which view is in doubt,
 needs correction or reconsideration then by way
 of exception (and not as a rule) and for reasons
 given by it, it may proceed to hear the case and
 examine the correctness of the previous decision
 in question dispensing with the need of a specific
 reference or the order of the Chief Justice
 constituting the Bench and such listing. Such was
 the situation in Raghubir Singh [(1989) 2 SCC
 754] and Hansoli Devi [(2002) 7 SCC 273] ." (emphasis supplied) I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 90 of 119 128. Thus, even though, this Court finds a lot of merit in the submissions
of Mr. Chandra with regard to the conclusion drawn by the Full Bench in Mohan Lal (supra) in para 34(iii), I am bound by the said decision and, at
this stage, it would not be appropriate for me to treat the present as a
composite suit in respect of infringement of the copyright in the registered
design of the plaintiff, and for infringement of the trade mark/passing off of
the plaintiff's registered trade mark in its label and for passing off its trade
dress. 129. As noticed above, the plaintiff being conscious of the aforesaid
decision in Mohan Lal (supra), has preferred a separate suit in respect of the
latter reliefs. Thus, I have no option but to limit the consideration in the
present case to the aspect of infringement of the copyright in the registered
design claimed by the plaintiff in its beer bottle in question. 130. Turning now to the submission of Mr. Chandra that the defendant has
conceded and acknowledged the validity of the plaintiff's copyright in its
design in the beer bottle in question and, therefore, to that extent nothing
survives to be determined in the present suit and an injunction should
follow, I find merit in the submission of the defendant that there is no
unqualified and unconditional admission by the defendant of validity of the
registration granted by the plaintiff in its design for its beer bottle. I have set
out herein above the proceedings which were undertaken before the Court
from 21.05.2015 onwards. It appears that on the said date, the defendant, on
its own, made a statement through counsel that the HUNTER beer in the
new bottle shall not be launched in any new territory and the case was
adjourned to 25.05.2015. The defendant was bound by the said statement on I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 91 of 119 25.05.2015 and the matter was adjourned to 26.05.2015, and further
adjourned to 27.05.2015. On the said date, the defendant tendered an
affidavit in Court which was taken on record and the case adjourned to
28.05.2015. 131. Mr. Chandra has sought to place strong reliance on the said affidavit
of the defendant. The said affidavit has been sworn by one Ashok Bhandari,
the Deputy Manager of the defendant. In para 2 of the said affidavit, he
states that "the defendant states that in order to bring an end to the
litigation between the parties, the defendant is not contesting the registered
design of the plaintiff and is filing the present affidavit so as to address the
concern of the plaintiff with respect to the impugned bottle design of the
defendant, which according to the plaintiff, is similar to its registered
design of "Tuborg" beer". (emphasis supplied) 132. Ashok Bhandari then proceeds to provide particulars of the number of
bottles already utilized for the purpose of packaging its beer. He states that
no new impugned bottles other than the total of 56,23,305 bottles already
purchased by the defendant, shall be introduced in the market. He
undertook that no new order for the impugned bottles shall be placed by the
defendant in future. He, inter alia, stated that the defendant shall, within a
period of four months, adopt a new unique design for "Hunter" beer. 133. What emerges from this affidavit, firstly, is that the said affidavit was
filed by the defendant "in order to bring an end to the litigation between the
parties". The defendant did not contest the registered design of the plaintiff
on account of the aforesaid consideration. The defendant clearly and
consciously did not concede that the impugned bottle design of the I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 92 of 119 defendant was similar to the registered design of the plaintiff's bottle. This
is clear from the use of the expression "... ... which according to the
plaintiff, is similar to its registered design of "Tuborg" beer". When the
contents of the said affidavit are read in conjunction with the order dated
28.05.2015 recorded by the predecessor of this Court, the position clearly
emerges that the affidavit filed by the defendant was a step taken by the
defendant towards an overall settlement of the disputes with the plaintiff.
However, the final settlement had yet to be arrived at. Pertinently, the
affidavit of Ashok Bhandari dated 27.05.2015 does not talk about the period
during which it shall continue to use its beer bottles which allegedly
infringed the plaintiff's registered design in its beer bottles for TUBORG
beer. The statement contained in the affidavit of Ashok Bhandari that the
"defendant shall within a period of four months from today adopt a new
unique design for Hunter beer" cannot be taken to mean that the defendant
had impliedly also undertaken not to use its impugned bottle design after a
period of four months from the date of the affidavit i.e. 27.05.2015. His
statement that the defendant shall not introduce its bottles with the impugned
design in the market, other than the 56,23,305 bottles already purchased by
the defendant conveys that the defendant intended to use the said bottles for
marketing its beer. 134. Pertinently, the same affidavit also stated that the defendant shall
produce the said new design before this Court around the first week of July
2015, meaning thereby that the same shall be placed before the Court so that
the plaintiff and this Court may have a look at it, and the objection to the
proposed new bottle design, if any, may also be examined and redressed. The said process was clearly open ended, and there could be no certainty as
to when the objections, if any, to the proposed new design produced by the
defendant would be taken by the Court and disposed of, one way or another.
Thus, the assurance given by the defendant that it shall, within a period of
four months, adopt a new unique design for HUNTER beer does not take
within its scope the assurance that its beer bottles with the impugned design
shall be discontinued after a period of four months from 27.05.2015. The
aforesaid position also becomes clear from a reading of the order dated
28.05.2015. The said order, inter alia, records: 135. The affidavit dated 27.05.2015 was filed by Ashok Bhandari in the
context of the hearing which had been undertaken before the Court prior to
the said date. If the clear and definite understanding of the parties had been
that the defendant shall undertake to discontinue the use of its bottles with
the impugned design within a period of four months, and if in that context
the affidavit had been filed by Ashok Bhandari on 27.05.2015, there was I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 94 of 119 nothing to prevent the Court from enforcing the said understanding on
28.05.2015 when the defendant claimed that the period of four months was
too short for the defendant to recover the investment that it had made for
purchase of the bottles in question. Clearly, there was no meeting of the
mind between the parties as to for what length of time the defendant shall
continue to use its existing stock of bottles with the impugned design. It is
for this reason that the Court recorded the disagreement of the parties on the
aforesaid aspect in the order dated 28.05.2015, and adjourned the case to
03.07.2015 by observing that the period during which the defendant can sell
the beer in the impugned bottles shall be decided on the next date of hearing. 136. I find force in the submission of Ms. Singh that, firstly, there was no
admission made by the defendant qua the claim of validity of the registered
design of the plaintiff in its beer bottle in question and, secondly, that the
affidavit dated 27.05.2015 of Ashok Bhandari merely contained a proposal
of the defendant - made with a view to finally resolve all the disputes in the
suit between the parties. The said offer of the defendant could, at the
highest, be considered as a "without prejudice" offer. Pertinently, on the
aforesaid aspect, the submission of the plaintiff has also been rejected by the
Supreme Court while dealing with SLP (C) No.34251/2015 in its order
dated 14.12.2015. The Supreme Court has deliberately mentioned the orders
dated 28.05.2015, 03.07.2015, 14.08.2015, 21.08.2015 and 05.11.2015
passed in the proceedings between the parties, and rejected the same
submission of the plaintiff by observing that the said contention was not
correct. 137. The decision of this Court in Surender Kaur (supra) is clearly
attracted in the facts of the present case. All that could be said on a perusal
of the affidavit dated 27.05.2015 of Ashok Bhandari is that there was an
offer made by the defendant to the effect, that the defendant shall change the
impugned design of its beer bottles; that the defendant shall not place orders
for procurement of any further bottles with the impugned design; that the
defendant shall come up with a new design of its beer bottles within a period
of four months. The time line disclosed in the last of the aforesaid
representations made by the defendant can only be described as possible
time line for introduction of a new bottle design by the defendant, for the
reason that the new bottle design was undertaken to be produced before the
Court "around the first week of July 2015". Thus, as to when the said
proposed new bottle design would be produced was uncertain. It was also
uncertain whether the new proposed bottle design produced by the defendant
would meet the approval of the plaintiff and of the Court. The defendant
may have assumed that the entire process may get concluded within a period
of four months from 27.05.2015 i.e. by 25.09.2015. On a reading of the
affidavit dated 27.05.2015 of Ashok Bhandari, it certainly cannot be said
that there was a definite date given by the defendant by when it would
certainly introduce the new bottle design for its beer in the market. There
was also no definite date given by the defendant as to when it would
discontinue the use of the existing stock of the impugned bottle design, if at
all! 138. I agree with the submission of Ms. Singh that in the aforesaid context,
the defendant could not be bound down, and could not be said to have I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 96 of 119 unconditionally conceded to or accepted the claim of validity made by the
plaintiff in respect of its registered design for the beer bottle in question.
The plaintiff cannot pick up a few words and sentences from the affidavit of
Ashok Bhandari dated 27.05.2015, while ignoring the other parts of the
same affidavit and the plaintiff cannot seek to introduce unstated obligations
of the defendant - by implication, in the said affidavit, according to its own
understanding or convenience. Thus, the submission of Mr. Chandra that
the issue of validity of the plaintiff's claim for copyright in its design for the
TUBORG beer bottle stands concluded in favour of the plaintiff has no
merit, and is rejected. 139. This leads me to consider, prima facie, the claim of validity of the
plaintiff in respect of its registered design in its TUBORG beer bottle. 140. Section 2(d) of the Designs Act defines the expression 'Design'.
Design means only the feature of shape, configuration, pattern, ornament or
composition of lines or colours applied to any article - whether in two
dimensional or three dimensional or in both forms, by any industrial process
or means, whether manual, mechanical or chemical, separate or combined
which, in the finished article, appeal to and are judged solely by the eye. 141. In Castrol India Limited (supra) decided by the Calcutta High Court - relied upon by Mr. Chandra, Ruma Pal, J., as her ladyship then was, sets
out the sequence of the obligations of the Court in considering a claim for
infringement of design. The first inquiry that the Court would undertake
would be - whether protection is claimed in respect of a design, or mode of
manufacture. In the present case, protection is being sought in respect of a
design of a bottle, and no protection is sought in respect of mode of I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 97 of 119 manufacture of the bottle, which aspect would fall within the realm of, and
may be protected by the law of patent. 142. The Court should then consider whether the design is, in fact, novel
and if so, to what extent. In this respect, the learned Judge referred to Section 43 of the Designs Act, 1991 (which is similar (though not identical)
to Section 5 of the Designs Act, 2000) which provides that, registration
under the Act can be made in respect of a new and original design
previously not published in India. Normally, designs which are purely
functional cannot be protected or form the basis for an action for
infringement. A functional shape and configuration, which is dictated solely
by the functionality, is not registerable under the Design Act as a design.
The learned Judge referred to the observation of Lord Reid, J. in Amp. Inc.
Vs. Utilux Pty . Ltd. 1972 RPC 103 wherein the learned Lord observed,
"..........and the words 'judged solely by the eye' must be intended to
exclude cases where a customer might choose an article of that shape not
because he thought that the shape made it more useful to him". 143. The next question to be considered is whether there is sufficient
resemblance between the alleged infringing copy and the plaintiff's
registered design to found an action for infringement under Section 22 of the
Act of 2000. In this regard, learned Judge cautioned that, not every
resemblance in respect of the same article would be actionable at the
instance of the registered proprietor of the design. She referred to Best
Products Ltd. Vs. F.W.Woolworth & Company Ltd. (1964) IX RPC 215,
wherein it was held that it was necessary to break the article down into parts
for descriptive purposes, but in the ultimate result it is the article as a totality I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 98 of 119 that must be compared and contrasted with the features of shape and
configuration of the claimed infringed design taken as a whole. Apart from
over all resemblance in the design, the Court is required to see, in particular,
as to whether the essential part or the basis of the petitioner's claim for
novelty forms part of the allegedly infringing copy. 144. The next task of the Court is to judge the similarity or difference
through the eye alone, and where the article in respect of which the design is
applied is itself the object of purchase - through the eye of the purchaser.
She referred to the observation of Russel L.J. in Benchairs Ltd. Vs. Chair
Center Ltd. 1974 RPC 429 wherein the learned Lords observed: 145. Her ladyship further observed that in judging the article solely by the
eye, the Court must see whether the defendant's version is an obvious or a
fraudulent imitation. Imitation does not mean duplication. The copy
complained of, need not be an exact replica. The expressions, 'obvious'
and 'fraudulent' as explained in Dunlop Rubber Co. Ltd. Vs. Golf Ball
Developments Ltd. (1931) XLVIII RPC 268 were also taken into
consideration. In Dunlop Rubber Co. Ltd. (supra), the Court held: 146. Thus, to see whether the imitation is obvious, the same should strike
at once on a visual comparison of the article containing the registered design
and the article containing the design which is said to be infringing the
registered design. The impugned design should be very close to the original
design - the resemblance of the original design being immediately apparent
to the eye while looking at the two designs. 147. Fraudulent imitation is one which is deliberately based upon the
registered design. The imitation may be less apparent than an obvious
imitation. There may be subtle distinction between the registered design and
the alleged fraudulent imitation, and yet the fraudulent imitation although
different in some respects from the original, renders it as a perceptible
imitation when the two designs are closely scanned. 148. Her Ladyship rejected the argument of the respondent that the
purchase (in that case of Motor Oil) would be dictated by the brand of the
oil, and not by the particular shape of the container in which the oil is sold
(in that case the design infringement related to the shape of the container).
She observed that: 149. She also observed that in cases of infringement of design, the question
is not whether the similarly has, or is likely to cause confusion or deception
of a purchaser, but whether the similarity is an imitation of the registered
design - sufficient to destroy the exclusive right to user of the registered
proprietor despite the fact that no confusion is or may be caused as to the
source of the goods. Otherwise, every registered design could be imitated
with impunity merely by changing the colour of the two products, thus
obviating any confusion. 150. Before comparing the registered design of the plaintiff in its beer
bottle, with the design adopted by the defendant in respect of its beer bottle,
it would be useful to also take into consideration the tests laid down and
applied by the courts in the decisions relied upon by the defendants. The
leading case relied upon by the defendant is that of Gramophone (supra).
While rejecting the claim of the plaintiff for design infringement, the House
of Lords (Lord Loreburn LC) held that the product of the defendant - a
cabinet, "is a different combination of familiar contrivances". He further I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 101 of 119 observed that if the suggested novelty lies in the detailed arrangements of
the parts, quite a small change in the arrangements make a real difference.
The Earl of Halsbury in the same case observed that: 151. Lord Shaw, in his opinion, emphasized the aspect of novelty and
originality which alone would render the design entitled to protection. 152. In Negretti (supra), the claim of the plaintiff for design protection was
rejected by holding that the plaintiff's design was not new or original. There
was only a slight difference between the design of the plaintiff and the
design of thermometer which had preceded it. The Court also held that there
was sufficient distinction between the defendant thermometer and the design
of the plaintiff. 153. In Phillips (supra), the House of Lords rejected the claim of the
plaintiff for a novel design in respect of rubber pads and plates for heels of
boots and shoes on the ground that the same was not new or original, since it
is not distinguishable from what previously existed. It was merely an
ordinary trade variant. The House of Lords further held that to determine
the question of infringement of a registered design, the eye should be of any
instructed person i.e. he should know what was common trade knowledge
and usage in the class of articles to which the design applies. 154. In Gaskell & Chambers Ltd. (supra), the Court held that the issue of
validity of registered design should be decided on a comparison and features I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 102 of 119 which appeal to and are judged by the eye. It is often helpful to look at what
was available before the priority date of the registered design as the eye of
the interested addressee could be drawn to details, only if the registered
design differs from the prior art by such details. It is only when the new
design differs radically from the previous designs, that the interested
person's eye would more likely concentrate on and more likely remember
the general form of the new design rather than the details. 155. In Repetition Woodwork Co. (supra), the comparison of the designs
was in respect of combined press for neckties - or the like, and box to
contain collars and other articles. The Court held that although each one of
the differences in the two designs when taken separately may well be said to
be not very substantial, yet when taken all together they cause the
defendant's box, both when closed and when opened, to present an
appearance substantially different from that of the plaintiff's design. Thus,
apart from comparison of the different parts of the article in question, an
overall view is also required to be taken. 156. In Polar Industries Ltd. (supra) since the design registration claim by
the plaintiff pertained to the entire article as a whole, namely, a table
fan/portable fan, the Court held that overall view of the registered designs of
the plaintiff - comprising of configuration, shape and ornamentation will
have to be considered for the purpose of comparison. The component parts
of the registered design of the plaintiff could not be viewed in isolation to
determine as to what are its striking features. 157. In Rajesh Kumar (supra), the claim for design infringement made by
the plaintiff was rejected by the Court by observing that the hair oil bottles
of the plaintiff are common bottles being used by several other companies
for marketing their hair oil and other products. These bottles have similar
shape with slight variation in form which have pre-existed the registration of
design of the plaintiff. In that case, the design registration obtained by the
plaintiff was not in respect of any peculiar feature of the bottle registered as
a design. The whole bottle was got registered as a design. The Court held
that the plastic bottle got registered as a design by the plaintiff was a very
common shape, and that it did not have any peculiar eye catching designing
or shape. To the same effect is the decision in Amit Jain (supra). In Amit
Jain (supra), the Court held that unless the plaintiff had any claim qua
specific ratios of the dimensions which were not pre-existing, there could be
no novelty in the bottle. 158. In Steelbird Hi-Tch India Ltd. (supra), the aspect of novelty and
originality was explained to mean that there must be a mental conception
expressed in a physical form which has not existed before, but has originated
in the constructive brain of its proprietor and that it must not be trivial or
infinitesimal in degree, but in some substantial degree. 159. In Dover Ltd. (supra), the Court held that a slight trivial or
infinitesimal variation from the pre-existing design will not qualify for its
registration, and that the change introduced should be substantial. At the
same time, the newness may be confined to only a part of the design of the
article-but that part must be a significant one and it should be potent enough I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 104 of 119 to impart to the whole design a distinct identity, unless registration is sought
for the said part alone. 160. I now turn to apply the aforesaid tests to examine, prima-facie, the
plaintiff's claim of holding a valid design in its beer bottle, and if it does,
whether the same stands, prima facie, infringed by the defendant. 161. The design certificate, apart from the cover sheet, contains the
following four sheets in respect of the design of the bottle registered by the
plaintiff: 162. The plaintiff is claiming protection in respect of its bottle design, and
its claim does not involve registration of a process of manufacturer (the first
step undertaken by the Court in Castrol India Ltd. (supra)). Thus, the
plaintiff claims infringement of the copyright in its registered design, and no I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 108 of 119 claim involving infringement of a patent is alleged. The design registration
is in respect of the entire beer bottle, and not in respect of a part of it. The
statement of novelty contained in the design registration certificate reads: 163. The bottle illustrated in the design registration certificate, by itself, is
not a new or novel item. The shape of the bottle, itself, is like any other
bottle existing in the prior art. Like most other bottles, it has a round base; a
cylindrical body; a proportionate narrowing neck and; a mouth, which could
be capped after the bottle is filled with whatever contents one may choose to
fill in the bottle. Thus, the only aspect that needs consideration is whether
there is any novelty in the indentations/ grooves found in the plaintiff's
bottle which are seen from the design registration certificate reproduced
hereinabove. It would also need consideration, whether the indentations are
functional - and, therefore, not entitled to protection; whether they appeal to
the eye - i.e. when adjudged solely by the eye. If the indentations are
functional, they would not be entitled to design protection. 164. When the bottle of the plaintiff is viewed, the indentations made on it
appear to be novel, but the question is, whether they appeal to the eye. Can
it be said that the plaintiff's bottle stands out, on account of the indentations/
grooving? 165. In my view, the answer is 'No'. Though the indentations/ grooving
may be novel inasmuch, as, the bottles of other manufacturers may not have
identical indentations/ grooving, the idea of adopting a bottle design with I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 109 of 119 indentation/ grooving is not new in itself, since there are scores of other
bottles being used by other vendors of beer and other beverages, and other
products, which too have indentations/ groovings. 166. In that sense, the indentations/ groovings on the plaintiff's bottle in
question can be described as "a different combination of familiar
contrivances". (See Gramophone (supra), where Lord Loreburn LC used
the aforesaid expression while comparing the defendant's product - a
cabinet, with that of the plaintiffs). The indentations on the plaintiff's bottle - and for that matter even on the defendant's bottle, appear to serve the only
purpose of providing the groove, wherein the printed label is to be affixed.
The grooving serves as a frame within which the label is affixed. In that
sense, the indentations can also be described as functional. The grooves
serve the purpose of accommodating, within the grooves, the label
containing the mark of the manufacturer/ plaintiff. 167. It appears to me that the claim of the plaintiff is similar to the one
made by the plaintiff in Rajesh Kumar (supra) and Amit Jain (supra). Like
in Rajesh Kumar (supra) - where the claim for design infringement was
made in respect of a hair oil bottle, it appears that the plaintiff's beer bottle
has similar shape (as those available in the prior art), with only slight
variation in form. The plaintiff has not claimed novelty and appeal to the
eye in respect of any peculiar feature of its bottle registration. The whole
bottle has been got registered as a design, and the shape of the bottle as a
whole, undoubtedly, exists in the prior art. 168. Thus, prima-facie, it appears to me that the design registration
obtained by the plaintiff in respect of its beer bottle itself may not be worthy
of protection, as it may be liable to be revoked. 169. The next question that arises for consideration is that even if the
plaintiff's design registration is presumed to be valid, i.e. that the
indentations/ grooves found on the plaintiff's beer bottle are presumed to be
not only novel, but also appealing to the eye and at the same time, as not
being functional, whether the defendant's bottle design prima-facie infringes
the plaintiff's registered design. 170. Once again, I, prima-facie, find that the plaintiff has not been able to
make out a case of design infringement. When one compares the beer bottle
of the plaintiff as a whole with the beer bottle of the defendant - as a whole,
they both appear to be like any other ordinary beer and other beverage
bottles available in the market. The defendant has placed on record
photographs of several other beer and other beverages brands having similar
shapes of bottles, such as Bud Weiser, Staropramel, Podkovan, Ursus,
Glenfiddseh, Goldur, Praha, etc. It needs consideration whether the
indentations/ grooves in the plaintiff's bottle design, and those found in the
defendant's bottle, when compared, lead to the prima-facie conclusion that
the defendant's indentations/ grooves are a fraudulent and obvious imitation
of the plaintiff's bottle design. The two bottles when viewed from different
angles, by placing them side by side appear as follows: 171. The above comparison has been taken from the documents filed by
the defendant at pages 651 and 652 of the record. I may observe that the
plaintiff has not filed a similar comparison. The plaintiff has, however, filed
the comparison of photographs taken from the same angles, and they have
been taken note of in paragraph 3 above. 172. As held in Castrol India Ltd. (supra), not every resemblance would be
actionable at the instance of the registered proprietor of the design. At the
same time, imitation does not mean duplication. The copy complained of
need not be an exact replica. While comparing, it is necessary to break
down the article into parts for descriptive purposes, but in the ultimate result,
it is the article in totality, i.e. as a whole, that must be compared and
contrasted with the features of shape and configuration of the design
allegedly infringed, taken as a whole. The Court "is required to see as to I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 113 of 119 whether the essential part or the basis of the plaintiff's claim for novelty
forms part of the alleged infringing copy". 173. I proceed to compare the two bottles from different angles. The front
: top view of the plaintiff's bottle has the name "TUBORG" inscribed. The
indentations/ grooving shows a larger asymmetrical curvature in the groove
at the top. The groove/ indentation on the plaintiff's bottle is parabolic in
shape at the top. In contrast, the groove/ indentation in the defendant's
bottle shows a curved groove with lesser radius, and the same appear to be a
symmetrical shape. The groove/ indentation on the defendant's bottle
appears more circular. The grooving of the bottom of the bottle is, no doubt,
similar but the said design appears to carry no novelty or appeal to the eye at
all. Moreover, it does not, prima facie, form an essential part or the basis of
the plaintiff's claim for novelty in its design. The indentation of the words
"TUBORG" on the plaintiff's bottle, and the word "HUNTER" on the
defendant's bottle, are obviously not similar. When both the bottles are
rolled by 90º, there is nothing of significance noticed in either of the two
designs, and clearly there is no novelty or appeal to the eye in the shape of
the grooves/ indentations as seen on the side of the bottle. 174. This brings us to the rear view of the bottle. Whereas, in the
plaintiff's bottle the groove/ indentations is a plain horizontal line, in the
defendant's bottle grooving/ indentation is the same as found in the front
view. The additional features found on the defendant's bottle in its rear
view are the grooving/ indentation of the word "SOM" written vertically,
and in the crown of the circular indentation/ groove at the top, the logo of
the defendant is engraved. Once again, the plaintiff's and defendant's I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 114 of 119 brands "TUBORG" and "HUNTER" are also engraved, just as the bottle
begins to taper into the neck portion. The grooving at the bottom of the two
bottles, no doubt, appear to be similar. To that extent, it appears that the
defendant's drawing at serial no.4 is not completely accurate. For this
purpose, one may refer to the photographic comparison provided by the
plaintiff in respect of the indentations at the bottom which is as follows: INDENTIONS INDENTIONS 175. Once again, in my view, the said indentations are extremely
insignificant and non-essential part of the entire bottle design. It is not
something that appeals to the eye, and when an overall view of the design of
the two bottles is taken, the same pales into insignificance. When the two
design shapes of the bottles in question are compared, in my view, it cannot
be said that there is an obvious or a fraudulent imitation. The defendant's
bottle design does not appear to be an obvious imitation, because the so-
called similarity in the shapes of the two bottles - when they are compared
part by part, and thereafter as a whole, do not lead to the immediate and
striking impression that the defendant's bottle design is so close to the
original design of the plaintiff's bottle, that the similarity is immediately
apparent to the eye. 176. It also cannot be said that the so-called imitation is based upon the
plaintiff's registered design, or that the distinction between the two bottle
designs is found to be subtle in nature, upon close examination and
comparison of the two bottle designs. The adoption of its bottle design by
the defendant also appears to be bona fide and not fraudulent in view of the
detailed and protracted correspondence that the defendant has had with
several designers, as already taken note of hereinabove while recording the
defendant's submissions. From the correspondence place on record, prima-
facie, it appears that the idea of revamping the Hunter Beer bottle design and
packaging was present to the mind of the defendant as early as in August
2011, if not earlier, as would be apparent from the e-mail communication
dated 18.08.2011 from Rohit Bindal of purpolefocus.com. The
correspondence placed on record by the defendant with the various
designers/ consultants shows that the defendant approached several
consultants for designing a new bottle and packaging for its Hunter Beer.
Pertinently, the plaintiff got its design registered only on 30.03.2012, i.e.
sometime after the defendant had already initiated the process of engaging
consultants to design and re-package its beer bottle and packaging for
Hunter Beer. The communications that the defendant had with several
designers/ consultants have been extracted hereinabove, precisely for the
reason that a perusal of these communications show that the defendant was
actively engaged in the process of re-designing its bottle and packaging for
its Hunter Beer. It appears that, eventually, the defendant engaged Lowe
Lintas, who made their recommendations. The recommendations made on
30.08.2003 along with the e-mail have been taken note of hereinabove. It
appears that the process of consultation continued even thereafter, and the I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 116 of 119 pros and cons of the suggestions/ recommendations made by the consultant
were discussed between the defendant and the consultant. From the
correspondence placed on record, it appears that the new design of the beer
bottle and the packaging was firmed up by the defendant in consultation
with its designer/ consultant sometime in November 2014, whereafter the
defendant applied for registration of its design on 28.11.2014. The
defendant also proceeded to place the orders for manufacture and supply of
60 Lakhs new bottles on the basis of the bottle design, label and packaging
created by the consultant. The consultant has also acknowledged receipt of
substantial amount of professional fee from the defendant, as is evident from
the certificate/ communication of the consultant placed on record. Thus,
prima facie, it appears that the defendant's beer bottle design is an
independently evolved design and not a fraudulent imitation of the plaintiff's
bottle design. 177. It appears to the Court that the grooving/ indentations on the bottles is
not even designed with a view to create the shape/ grooving which appeals
to the eye - since there is no eye appeal in the grooving as found on either of
the two bottles. The groovings are not very striking or artistic, so as to
immediately attract the attention of the viewer. In fact, it appears to this
Court that the grooving is something which follows the shape of the label
created/ designed by the designer/ consultant. Evidently, it is the label
which is first conceived of and designed - which is to be affixed on the
bottle, and thereafter, the grooving/ indentation is designed on the bottle,
such that the grooving/ indentation serves as a frame within which the label
is affixed. As aforesaid, the grooving in that sense is functional more than I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 117 of 119 anything else. I am, thus, of the considered view on a prima-facie
examination that neither the plaintiff's claim for novelty/ appeal to the eye,
in its design may be sustainable, nor its claim for infringement thereof is
made out on a comparison of the plaintiff's bottle design with that of the
defendant. 178. It also appears to me that balance of convenience is not in favour of
the plaintiff, since the defendant has invested very large amount of money in
designing and procuring its bottles. To injunct the defendant at this stage
from using its bottle design would certainly lead to a substantial loss to the
defendant and would also be a waste of resources. The rights of the parties
can well be balanced by requiring the defendant to keep full and complete
accounts and submit the same in this Court periodically. Since the design in
question relates to a beer bottle - which is a control commodity, the
defendant would be obliged, under the law, to maintain and preserve
accounts in relation to its production and sale of beer scrupulously. I am,
therefore, inclined to dismiss the present application. The defendant is,
however, directed to maintain full and complete accounts in respect of its
beer sales under its brand Hunter; and to file in this Court the statements
reflecting the sales of the said beer State-wise, throughout the country on a
quarterly basis. The statements in respect of the past period shall be filed
within four weeks, and the statements in respect of future sales shall be filed
within one month of the expiry of each quarter. 179. In view of the decision of the Supreme Court in Dawoodi Bohra (supra), I deem it proper to invite the attention of Hon'ble the Chief Justice,
and to request her for the matter being placed for hearing before a bench of I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 118 of 119 larger quorum than three judges, since it is the decision of the Full Bench of
three learned Judges in Mohan Lal (supra), which has come up for
consideration. Thus, while dismissing the plaintiff's application, i.e. I.A.
No.10972/2015 and leaving the parties to bear their respective costs, I direct
that the present matter be placed before Hon'ble the Chief Justice. The
Hon'ble the Chief Justice may consider whether the decision in Mohan Lal (supra) - on the aspect of maintainability of a composite suit in relation to
infringement of a registered design and for passing off, where the parties to
the proceedings are the same needs re-consideration by a larger bench in the
light of Order II Rule 3 CPC , which permits joinder of causes of action. (VIPIN SANGHI)
 JUDGE
MAY 02, 2017 I.A. No.10972/2015 in C.S. (OS) No.1485/2015 Page 119 of 119