1. Grievance in this application is against dumping of sewage carried

by unauthorized trucks/vehicles on roads and drains resulting in

pollution and damage to the environment. The complaint has specified

locations at Chandan Hola Main Road Bus Stand near Pulliya, Gadaipur

Bandh Road, DLF, Vasant Kunj Farm House, Delhi. 2. The matter was earlier considered on 22.12.2021 and reference

was also made to identical grievance in another matter. The Tribunal

observed that such accidents may be taking place at various locations

which were required to be looked into. The relevant observations are: 3. Since such incidents may be taking place at various locations
which needs to be verified by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Delhi
Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) in coordination with the
concerned Municipal Corporations and local Police. Report may be
furnished within one month by e-mail at judicial- [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/ OCR Support
PDF and not in the form of Image PDF. DPCC will be the nodal 2 agency for coordination and compliance. DPCC may also ascertain
 the status of follow-up action of the above order of the Tribunal and
 mention the same in its report alongwith result of general survey of
 other areas where such problem may be found." 3. In pursuance of above, report has been filed by DPCC on

10.03.2022 acknowledging that septage tankers were dumping sewage

waste in the drains in the night and early morning instead of taking the

same to the nearest STPs managed by DJB and PWD for scientific

treatment. Relevant extracts from the report are reproduced below: 4. Apart from the above, the applicant has also filed further letters

reiterating the grievance of illegal dumping of sewage in Gadaipur Bandh

Road, Chandan Hola, Chhattarpur, Vasant Kunj, Rajpur Khurd, Ghitorni

in collusion with some Government Department/Officials. Photographs of

tankers dumping such sewage in drains through pipes are also annexed.

Similar allegations are repeated in letter dated 12.01.2022. 5. Since the problem is acknowledged even by the DPCC and

situation is disturbing, continuous, sustained and stringent action is

required by the statutory authorities, particularly DJB which has given

licences which are being misused in violation of the Water (Prevention

and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 . The violations are also offences

under Sections 268 to 270 of the IPC. There appears to be serious failure

to monitor compliance of Delhi Water Board Septage Management

Regulation, 2018 by DJB. There is need to review current mechanism

and evolve more effective system to prevent such incidents. Violators

need to be identified and proceeded against in the interest of rule of law,

public health and environment. Licensed service providers must 5 transport septage to the Sewage Pumping Stations (SPS) and pre- notified

STPs having facilities to treat the septage and duly record the same with

proper manifest system. If septage is disposed illegally, there must be

mechanism to report and take action. 6. Accordingly, we constitute a joint Committee headed by Justice

S.P. Garg, former Judge, Delhi High Court with nominees of CPC B,

DPCC and Chief Engineer, DJB. The DPCC will be the nodal agency for

coordination and compliance. The Committee may meet within two weeks

to take stock of the situation in the light of above observations. It may

undertake visit to such sites as may be found appropriate and devise

appropriate monitoring mechanism to prevent such incidents. It may

coordinate with the stake holders and any other department or

institution. It may give its report within three months by e-mail

at [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/OCR

Support PDF and not in the form of Image PDF with a copy thereof to the

Chief Secretary, Delhi for further remedial action. The honorarium

payable to Justice S.P. Garg will be paid by the DJB, in case honorarium

is not already being paid in connection with any other work entrusted by

the NGT. A copy of this order be forwarded to Chief Secretary, Delhi, Justice

S.P. Garg, former Judge, Delhi High Court, CPC B, DPCC and DJB by e-

mail for compliance. List for further consideration on 26.08.2022. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP 6 Dinesh Kumar Singh, JM

 Prof. A. Senthil Vel, EM

 Dr. Vijay Kulkarni, EM

April 22, 2022
Original Application No. 365/2021
DV 7