SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Thane Amazon delivery Team Leader scammed me for 27K
DATE: 2022-01-01
SCORE: 31
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/rtgcfa/thane_amazon_delivery_team_leader_scammed_me_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

I purchased an Apple watch SE from Amazon and what followed after that was the worst time in my life. And the delivery agent and his team leader would scam me of 27K.

The full incident is as follows.

I ordered Apple Watch SE around 5th Nov. It was delivered on the next day. I opened the Apple Watch and started noticing odd things about the watch. The charger was missing, the straps were cheap, the watch didn’t turn on etc. I checked youtube for Watch SE videos and realised that I have received a fake product.

I took some pictures of the watch and the box. Then I called Amazon customer support. After some discussion, they informed me that I will get a replacement watch in next few days.

On 10 Nov, the delivery agent P\*\*\* K\*\*\* came with the replacement watch. I gave him the bad product that I received earlier and he gave me the replacement watch. The delivery agent left. I checked the replacement watch and it was working as expected.

Almost 2 hours later, the delivery agent and his team leader came back to my house and says that the watch is a fake product. His product verification has failed. He made a mistake of marking the fake watch as original watch and marking the delivery done. Now, if he doesn’t submit the original watch, 27K will be deducted from his salary.

I called up Amazon customer support and asked them to speak with the team leader directly. The customer support explained it to him that the customer(“Me”) will keep the replacement watch and he is supposed to keep the fake watch and nothing more needs to be done.

On 7th Nov, the Thane Amazon delivery team leader A\*\*\* P\*\*\* calls me. And started explaining that the delivery guy is in a big problem due to his mistake. The delivery is already marked done but the product verification has failed. He cannot afford 27K loss from his salary. I told him to discuss with customer support and sort it out with them. But he said, no sir they cannot help us since they are a different team and various other reasons.

The the team leader suggested, sir if you return your new apple watch, you will your get refund back. Plus after picking up the return product, the delivery boy can take the watch and complete his product verification. This way the poor delivery agent’s 27K would be saved. I said no to all of that in the beginning. But he insisted too much and I finally agreed to help him. The team leader wanted to meet me on the same day but I was travelling for next 7 days and he couldn’t meet me.

On 17th Nov, around 10:30pm he came near by building and called me. “sir I am already outside your building. can I come to your house to take the apple watch”. I said “Look I am returning the product back and I want refund. thats the only reason I am ready to help you.” He said, “sir I am team leader at amazon since 3 years. Don’t worry. Just return the product, you will get refund. I will take care of everything.”

I said, “I want everything in writing on WhatsApp. If I don’t get refund, I am giving these details to customer support.” He shared the delivery agent’s photo, his photo, his details and whatever he spoke on phone with me on WhatsApp. I took screenshots of the same as a backup.

He then asked me to speak to customer support and raise a return request saying that I have received a fake product. I gave him my phone and asked him to speak with the customer care himself. He called the customer support from my phone, my amazon account and argued with them for a good 20mins or so and raised a return. The explanation he gave over the phone was that “it is a fake product and he was returning it and he doesn’t want it anymore”. Then he gave me back the fake watch I had initially received and took away the working watch that I got in replacement.

He said “sir your watch will be picked in a few days and after that you will get refund. If there’s any issue call me.” and then he left. Little did I know, the Amazon team leader had scammed me of my money and I am not getting my refund.

On 25th Nov, the watch got picked and I was waiting for my refund.

Fews days went by, I decided to call Amazon customer care to ask about my refund. Customer care said they cant refund me since they received a local watch. I said “yes it was returned bcoz it was a fake product.” They said “Sir we need to investigate and based on that we will see what we can do.”

I called the Amazon team leader and he would not pick up my calls. I messaged him on WhatsApp and he would not respond back. I understood that this man has scammed me and thats why he is not responding back. I would have easily called him 20-30 times. He didn’t respond once.

Few days later, I called up customer care and gave them all the details and evidence of WhatApp chat by team leader and how he scammed me. Even after giving the whatsApp screenshots and asking them to look through the 17th Nov call recording, they haven’t be able to take any action against the team leader or refund my money.

It’s been more than a month now and I haven’t gotten any resolution on this in spite of sharing all the evidence. My 27K is stuck even though I have returned all the items I had received. Customer support had mentioned there was some investigation done and the delivery agent was asked if he is aware of such an incident. The delivery agent denied everything. He or his team leader weren’t held accountable for anything.

If anyone has any inputs on what can be done here, that would be really helpful.