SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] You can get an Aadhaar Card without document verification for INR 500
DATE: 2017-08-12
SCORE: 110
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6t8yf0/np_you_can_get_an_aadhaar_card_without_document/

--- POST TEXT ---

Disclaimer: Posting on behalf of the reporter who originally wrote this article. Link at the end of the post.

---

Divya Bhaskar’s sting- Aadhaar number generated without any proof.

Conversation between reporter and Aadhaar agent

R- We need to make Aadhaar, how much will you charge?

A- 200/- only.

R- But there's one problem we don’t have any required documents, the birth certificate is also missing so will you be able to make it?

A- I will make it easily, daily hundreds of people come here for this but then you have to pay 500 rupees.

R- Yes I will pay but what if that Aadhaar card does not work and people reject it?

A- Than I will return the money. I am giving you guarantee this card will work anywhere in the world. And we follow all government methods we will take retina and finger prints it will be original card don't worry.

The agent also added that till now they have made 10,000 Aadhaar cards.

Reality check- On 28 June 2017 we went to that photocopy shop named Siddhi Vinayak Xerox, our finger print, retina print were taken by the operator and all the details were filled directly on Aadhaar software the way we were telling him without any check or verification. Aadhaar receipt was given to us as soon as we paid him 500 Rs. Sitting in Ahmedabad, an agent fearlessly uploaded the details without any documents and it got registered in central government records. (Wow) Hello UIDAI are you listening?

There is a major loophole in the system. Is Aadhaar's software so vulnerable that anybody can use it? I found one agency but I am damn sure that there are many more like this in every state. 

And seeing the crowd in his office I can say these people are in demand. On 10 July 2017 we received a message on mobile from UIDAI that our Aadhaar number is generated and we can download e-Aadhaar for use. Within 13 days the Aadhaar number was generated and uploaded on UIDAI website www.uidai.gov.in (slow claps)

BJP government is relentlessly forcing Aadhaar card on everything possible, even the death certificate is not spared. The importance of Aadhaar card is increasing day by day and so it's scams. Aadhaar is free identity card and for enrollment of one has to submit few documents like birth certificate, driving license, passport, ration card, voter ID etc.

But in Modi’s Ahmedabad, Aadhaar cards are in making without any mandatory proofs, photocopy shop situated behind the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (the department who is responsible for Aadhaar enrollment in the city) enrolled us just like that. He enrolled us that’s still believable but it got approval from central government- UIDAI that’s shocking it was a cake walk for us to generate this number.

Like this any Bangladeshi, Pakistani, Nepali can easily generate their Aadhaar number, I hope BJP will not make Aadhaar card as citizenship proof.

Hence, the debate goes on about the authenticity of Aadhaar and its future. Here we have another proof of it going downhill.

Special quote of our internet sweet heart Aunty Bhawri when I told her about Aadhaar card fiasco she said, “Ye bik gayi hai Gormint ab iss gormint me kuch nahi bacha, ye saale saare humko milke pagal bana rahe hai."

Article originally appeared in Divya Bhaskar on 11 August, 2017 (Divya Bhaskar is flagship newspaper of Dainik Bhaskar in Gujarat)

http://imgur.com/nKJjBCt

http://imgur.com/AvIAbcx

http://imgur.com/b0qUPlg

http://imgur.com/7kzk7ee

Link to said article: http://www.divyabhaskar.co.in/news/MGUJ-AHM-c-69-without-proof-made-aadhar-card-just-rs-500-scam-in-ahmedabad-NOR.html

---

Update #1: Addressing u/charavaka's and u/ArchangelleSnek's comments, I asked the reporter if the person who got the Aadhaar card made without any documents previously held a legit Aadhaar card. She didn't hold an Aadhaar card previously.