Hon'ble Mr. Manish Garg, Member (J)

 By way of the present O.A. the applicant seeks

 following reliefs:- 2. Highlighting the facts of the present case, learned

 counsel for the applicant states that the case of the

 applicant is that the candidature of the applicant has

 been rejected by the respondents on the ground that

 his biometrics were not verified followed by mismatch

 reported by Handwriting expert in Handwriting and / or

 signature on relevant papers. 2.1. He submits that even assuming for the sake of the

 arguments, as contended in the counter affidavit that an

 ANKIT expert was appointed, the copy of the same was not
 ANKIT SAKLANI
SAKLANI 2025.12.24
 10:40:07+02'00' supplied. He further submits that verification expert was 3 Item No. 47 O.A. No. 291/2024 Court No. IV
 hired from a private agency and in light of the decision

 rendered by this Tribunal in O.A. No. 3628/2013 decided

 on 09.11.2021 titled as Dev Dutt Vs. Union of India &

 Ors. , the respondents ought to have carried out the

 mismatch of the analyses by CFSL rather than a private

 individual expert. He further submits that the said

 observations made in the matter of Dev Dutt is based on

 the decision rendered in the matter of Praveed Vs. Union

 of India and Ors. in W.P. (C) No. 2975/2021 decided on

 05.03.2021 by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi.

 2.2. He further draws attention to the fact that Hon'ble

 High court of Madhya Pradesh in W.P. (C) No. 8990/2020

 decided on 25.03.2025 in the matter of Vinod Kumar

 Meena Vs. Life Insurance Corporation of India , has

 considered issue of biometrics and highlights the

 observations so made therein, which reads as under:- 3. On the other hand, learned counsel for the

 respondents vehemently opposes the grant of relief in the

 present matter. He states that neither the handwriting of

 the applicant matched nor the biometric verification is in

 favour of the applicant. 3.1. He does not dispute the fact that an expert was

 appointed which was duly authorized by the competent
 ANKIT
 ANKIT SAKLANI authority and the observations made by the private
SAKLANI 2025.12.24
 10:40:07+02'00' 5 Item No. 47 O.A. No. 291/2024 Court No. IV
 examiner cannot be denied merely because it was done

 by a private individual. 3.2. He further draws attention to the averments made

 in the counter affidavit, which reads as under:- 4. The original record of the case was also summoned. 5. Having the heard the learned counsels for the parties

 and perused the records of the case. 6. First of all we will examine the report of the Forensic

 Document Examiner, Sh. D.D. Goel, M.Sc. dated

 17.07.2023, who opined as follows:- 6.1. The records would reveal that document verification

 was called on 13.03.2023. Three members of the

 committee verified the documents as per the Document

 Verification Cum Medical Examination Cen. RRC-

 01/2019 the applicant is shown to be "Provisionally

 Eligible". In the column where it has been mentioned

 that the reasons if declared Provisionally Eligible or

 Negligible, it has been highlighted that reasons assigned

 is "Signature mismatch with Registration Form".

 6.2. We also noticed that in Registration Form there is a

 column of suspicious candidate be freezen, however the

 said 2 columns remains unfilled by the committee nor

 there is any other remark by the Committee. 6.3. On perusal of the records, it also appears that there

 is an ambiguity in the observations made in the opinion

 word enclosed "writings" has been used at serial number

 1 and in second line "not right". We fail to understand

 how these observations have been made, as it has to be a

 word 'writing' or otherwise. 6.4. Though Mr. Vikas Chaurasia, CLA/NRHQ is present

 alongwith the original records, but, he is unable to show

 the Registration Form. We presume that the Registration

 form is in fact the actual application form filled by the

 applicant, which clear the signature of the applicant.

 Probably the records also reveals that the said document

 has also not been supplied to the private examiner to

 verify the veracity of the claim as contended by the by the

 Committee Members, who verified the documents on

 13.03.2023. 6.5. We also observe that the last page of the records

 the biometric authentication has been authenticated.

 There are two left and right thumb impression alongwith

 the signatures. Call letter for Physical Efficiency test is

 verified, biometrics authentication call letter for

 ANKIT
 ANKIT
 SAKLANI computer base also shows that biometrics authenticated. 7. In view of the above and present factual matrix of the

 case, we are guided by the above fact that the grievances

 of the applicant has been examined in the matter of Dev

 Dutt and coupled with the observations made in Vinod

 Kumar Meena, we deem it appropriate dispose of the

 present matter by directing the respondents to send the

 documents of the applicant to the CFSL for examination

 by the Railway authority within a period of 15 days from

 the date of receipt of a copy of this order. Ordered

 accordingly. On receipt of the request of the Railway

 authority, the CFSL shall give their report in this regard

 within a period of six weeks thereafter to the Railway

 authority, on the basis of which the Railway authority

 shall take a final decision as regards the employment of

 the applicant to the post in question. 8. We also take note of the fact that the opinion which

 has been referred only relates to the signature / hand

 writing and not of the biometrics authentication. 9. Original record produced before us has been

 returned to the departmental representatives after

 perusal. 10. Accordingly, the present O.A. is disposed of in

 above terms. All pending M.As, if any, shall also stand

 dispose of. No order as to costs.