R.F. Nariman, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. These appeals pertain to a notice inviting tender [“N.I.T.”] dated

 02.12.2019 by the State of Madhya Pradesh, Public Works

 Department [“PWD”]. The N.I.T. was for the construction of an Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by Elevated Corridor (Flyover) from LIG Square to Navlakha Square Anita Malhotra Date: 2020.12.08 17:52:36 IST Reason: (Old NH 3) A-B Road in Indore district in the State of Madhya

 Pradesh of a length of 7.473 kilometers. The work was for an 1 estimated cost of Rs. 272.66 crores, to be completed within a period

 of 24 months including the rainy season. Various parts of the N.I.T.

 are important and are referred to hereunder: 3. Under Section - 2, entitled “INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS”, under

 clause A, entitled “GENERAL”, sub-clause 2.1.4 reads as follows: 4 Construction in core sector that 0.70
 qualify under Clause 2.2.2.6(ii) 3 (ii) The Technical capacity in respect of an Eligible Project
 situated in a developed country which is a member of
 OECD shall be further multiplied by a factor of 0.5 (zero
 point five) and the product thereof shall be the Experience
 Score for such Eligible Project.”

Under clause 2.6.2(a), the authorities reserved the right to reject any

bid, inter alia, on the following grounds: 3.1.6.2 The Authority reserves the right to reject any
 Technical BID which is non-responsive and no request for
 alteration, modification, substitution or withdrawal shall be
 entertained by the Authority in respect of such BID.”

Under Section - 4, entitled “FRAUD AND CORRUPT PRACTICES”,

clause 4.1 read with the definition clause contained in clause 4.3(b),

read as follows: Paragraphs 11 and 13 of this letter are important and are set out

hereinbelow: A statement by the Bidder and each of the Members of its
 Joint Venture (where applicable) disclosing material non-
 performance or contractual non-compliance in current
 projects, as on bid due date 'is given below (attach extra
 sheets, if necessary) w.r.t. para 2.1.14.” 4. Eleven companies bid for the aforesaid project, including U.P. State

 Bridge Corporation Limited [“UPSBC”], Rajkamal Builders

 Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. [“Rajkamal Builders”] and Rachana

 Construction Co. Insofar as UPSBC is concerned, the State of

 Madhya Pradesh rejected its bid on the ground that the bidder

 suppressed information required under paragraph 13 of Appendix IA 7 and clause 7(b) of Annex I. Hence, the aforesaid bid was considered

 to be non-responsive. Likewise, insofar as Rachana Construction

 Co. is concerned, it did not fulfil the criteria under clause 2.2.2.2(ii)

 of the N.I.T. for “one similar work” of 25% of the estimated project

 cost, and was also therefore considered non-responsive. Pursuant

 to the rejection of the technical bid of UPSBC in the Technical

 Evaluation Committee’s meeting held on 13.03.2020, Writ Petition

 No. 6681 of 2020 was filed by UPSBC and by an interim order dated

 17.03.2020, the financial bid of UPSBC was ordered to be opened. 5. On the opening of the financial bids, it was found that UPSBC had

 bid for a sum of Rs. 306.27 crores and Rajkamal had bid for Rs.

 315.80 crores. Being disqualified, Rachana Construction Co.’s bid

 for Rs. 293.25 crores was not under consideration. 6. By the impugned judgment dated 15.06.2020 in Writ Petition No.

 6681 of 2020 filed by UPSBC, it was held that as on the date of

 submission of the technical bid, since no investigation was pending

 within the meaning of clause 7(b) of Annex I, there was no

 suppression of facts by UPSBC, despite the fact that an FIR dated

 15.05.2018 had been lodged against it in respect of a particular

 bridge constructed by it at Janpad, Varanasi which had collapsed,

 killing 15 persons and injuring 11 persons. The investigation in this

 case resulted in a charge sheet being filed. After the trial 8 commenced, the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, by an order

 dated 30.07.2019, stayed the trial. Despite these facts not being

 stated in the bid document submitted by UPSBC, the High Court

 found that there was no suppression of facts, as clause 7(b) of

 Annex I only required details as to investigations that were pending,

 and as “investigation” as defined under the Code of Criminal

 Procedure [“ Cr.P.C .”] was different from inquiries and trials, there

 was no need to disclose the FIR and its aftermath, as there was no

 “investigation pending” strictly speaking, as it had culminated in a

 charge sheet. The High Court was also swayed by the fact that there

 was a difference of Rs. 9 crores between the financial bids of

 UPSBC and Rajkamal. Public interest therefore demanded that the

 rejection of UPSBC’s technical bid be set aside. The State of

 Madhya Pradesh was therefore directed to issue a letter of intent

 [“LOI”] in favour of UPSBC for the financial bid of Rs. 306.27 crores

 within a period of 30 days from the date of the judgment. 7. Meanwhile, Rachana Construction Co. also filed Writ Petition No.

 8404 of 2020 challenging the rejection of its technical bid by the

 State of Madhya Pradesh. By the impugned judgment dated

 02.07.2020, the High Court adverted to the judgment dated

 15.06.2020 in UPSBC’s writ petition and thereafter went on to

 examine whether Rachana Construction Co.’s bid had been rightly 9 rejected. Insofar as Rachana Construction Co.’s bid was concerned,

the High Court referred to clause 2.2.2.2(ii) in paragraph 9 of its

judgment and held that there was nothing wrong with the State of

Madhya Pradesh’s rejection, as follows: Hindustan Petroleum Corpn. Ltd., (2019) 14 SCC 81 [“Caratel

Infotech”], for the proposition that where a tender was in a particular

format, nothing beyond the information that is required by that

format need be given, and since no investigation was in fact pending

against his client, clause 7(b) of Annex I could not have been

invoked to non-suit his client. He also relied upon the judgment in

Secy., Deptt. of Home Secy., A.P. v. B. Chinnam Naidu , (2005) 2

SCC 746, in which case the petitioner concerned had to fill up a

recruitment form in which previous convictions had to be stated.

Since merely being arrested would not amount to a previous

conviction, it was held that the petitioner could not be said to have

suppressed the fact of his being convicted. He then argued that in

any case if there is any ambiguity in the clause the rule of contra

proferentem applies, as a result of which the literal interpretation,

which is a possible interpretation, ought to prevail, and for this he

cited Bank of India v. K. Mohandas , (2009) 5 SCC 313. He was at

pains to point out that no ground other than clause 7(b) of Annex I

could now be taken, as the ground of fraudulent practice, which was

sought to be argued by the State of Madhya Pradesh in this Court,

was not a ground on which UPSBC’s bid was rejected. He also

pointed out that public interest would require that the financial bid be

accepted, being Rs. 9 crores less than that of Rajkamal. 13 11. Shri Anupam Lal Das, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf

 of Rachana Construction Co. assailed the impugned judgments

 dated 02.07.2020 and 04.08.2020 by relying upon the Contract

 Agreement dated 23.08.2017 between his client and the Dedicated

 Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited [“DFCCIL”] for the work

 of construction of two nos. of road over bridges for an amount of Rs.

 76.87 crores, 95% of which had been completed, for which a

 payment of Rs. 68.71 crores had been received. This being so, and

 this being above 25% of the estimated cost of the present tender

 (fixed at Rs. 68.17 crores), he stood technically qualified. It was

 wholly incorrect for the authorities to have bifurcated one project

 awarded under one tender into two, merely because two road over

 bridges had to be built. He also stated that non-joinder of a

 necessary party could not be held against him as all the facts were

 known and UPSBC could have intervened in Rachana Construction

 Co.’s matter. 12. Shri Puneet Jain, learned counsel appearing on behalf of Rajkamal,

 attacked the judgment in UPSBC’s case and supported the

 judgment in Rachana Construction Co.’s case, stating that quite

 apart from the clauses referred to and relied upon by the State of

 Madhya Pradesh, it was clear that Appendix IA had not been

 properly read, as paragraphs 11 and 13 had to be read together. 14 Clearly paragraph 11 indicated that if UPSBC were “indicted” in a

 criminal case, which would cast doubt on its ability to undertake the

 project, this would be sufficient to reject UPSBC’s bid. Insofar as

 Rachana Construction Co. is concerned, he referred to and relied

 upon clause 2.2.2.2(ii) and in particular, the latter part of the clause,

 which required that the bidder would have to demonstrate additional

 experience in respect of the bridge to be constructed in the present

 tender and would have to show that it had completed at least one

 similar major bridge of a span equal to or greater than 50% of the

 longest span of the structure proposed in this project. He adverted to

 the two road over bridges that were constructed under the

 agreement dated 23.08.2017 by Rachana Construction Co. for

 DFCCIL, both being of a length of 2380 meters when taken together.

 This would fall woefully short of 50% of 7.473 kilometers, which

 would amount to 3.736 kilometers, and on this additional ground

 also, Rachana Construction Co.’s bid ought to be rejected. 13. We have heard all the learned counsel for the parties. The

 parameters of judicial review in matters such as the present have

 been well stated in many decisions of this Court, beginning with the

 celebrated Tata Cellular v. Union of India , (1994) 6 SCC 651, in

 which a 3 judge bench of this Court laid down the following

 principles: 15 However, the decision must not only be tested by the
 application of Wednesbury principle of reasonableness
 (including its other facts pointed out above) but must be
 free from arbitrariness not affected by bias or actuated by
 mala fides. (6) Quashing decisions may impose heavy administrative
 burden on the administration and lead to increased and
 unbudgeted expenditure.”
 (pages 687-688) 14. Likewise, in Jagdish Mandal v. State of Orissa , (2007) 14 SCC

 517, this Court held: or
 Whether the process adopted or decision made is so
 arbitrary and irrational that the court can say: “the decision
 is such that no responsible authority acting reasonably and
 in accordance with relevant law could have reached”; (ii) Whether public interest is affected. If the answers are in the negative, there should be no
 interference under Article 226. Cases involving blacklisting
 or imposition of penal consequences on a
 tenderer/contractor or distribution of State largesse
 (allotment of sites/shops, grant of licences, dealerships and
 franchises) stand on a different footing as they may require
 a higher degree of fairness in action.”
 (pages 531-532) 15. In Central Coalfields Ltd. v. SLL-SML (Joint Venture

 Consortium ), (2016) 8 SCC 622, this Court held as follows: 48. Therefore, whether a term of NIT is essential or not is a
 decision taken by the employer which should be respected.
 Even if the term is essential, the employer has the inherent
 authority to deviate from it provided the deviation is made
 applicable to all bidders and potential bidders as held in Ramana Dayaram Shetty [Ramana Dayaram Shetty v.
 International Airport Authority of India , (1979) 3 SCC 489] .
 However, if the term is held by the employer to be ancillary
 or subsidiary, even that decision should be respected. The
 lawfulness of that decision can be questioned on very
 limited grounds, as mentioned in the various decisions
 discussed above, but the soundness of the decision cannot
 be questioned, otherwise this Court would be taking over
 the function of the tender issuing authority, which it cannot.”
 (page 638) 16. Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. v. Nagpur Metro Rail Corpn. Ltd. ,

 (2016) 16 SCC 818, puts the proposition extremely well when it

 states: 15. We may add that the owner or the employer of a
 project, having authored the tender documents, is the best
 person to understand and appreciate its requirements and
 interpret its documents. The constitutional courts must
 defer to this understanding and appreciation of the tender
 documents, unless there is mala fide or perversity in the
 understanding or appreciation or in the application of the
 terms of the tender conditions. It is possible that the owner
 or employer of a project may give an interpretation to the
 tender documents that is not acceptable to the
 constitutional courts but that by itself is not a reason for
 interfering with the interpretation given.”
 (page 825) 17. This view of the law has been subsequently reiterated and followed

 in Montecarlo Ltd. v. NTPC Ltd. , (2016) 15 SCC 272 (see

 paragraph 25 at page 287) and Caratel Infotech (supra) (see

 paragraphs 38-39 at pages 92-93). 18. Judged by these parameters, it is clear that this Court must defer to

 the understanding of clauses in tender documents by the author

 thereof unless, pithily put, there is perversity in the author’s

 construction of the documents or mala fides. As against this, Shri

 Dhruv Mehta is also correct in drawing our attention to Caratel

 Infotech (supra), and in particular, to paragraphs 4, 9, 22 and 23,

 which are set out hereinbelow: *** 10. Other mandatory requirements: 23. It may be possible to contend that the format is not
correctly made. But then, that is the problem of the framing
of the format by Respondent 1. It appears that Respondent
1 also, faced with the factual situation, took a considered
view that since Clause 20(i) provided for the four
eventualities, while the format did not provide for it, the 21 appellant could not be penalised. May be, for future the
 format would require an appropriate modification!”
 (page 89) 19. It is clear that Shri Dhruv Mehta is right when he refers to and relies

 upon the aforesaid judgment for the proposition that where there is

 a format which had to be strictly complied with, his client was

 justified in going by the literal reading of the aforesaid format, which

 only required a disclosure of pending investigations under clause

 7(b) of Annex I of the N.I.T. However, as has correctly been pointed

 out by Shri Saurbh Mishra and Shri Puneet Jain, clause 7(b) of

 Annex I, which is in terms similar to paragraph 13 of Appendix IA,

 must be read together with paragraph 11 thereof, which, as has

 been pointed out hereinabove, requires the bidder to certify that in

 regard to matters other than security and integrity of the country, the

 bidder has not been convicted by a court of law or indicted. Clearly

 in the facts of the present case, though the investigation is no

 longer pending and though there is no conviction by a court of law,

 UPSBC has certainly been “indicted”, in that, a charge sheet has

 been filed against it relatable to the FIR dated 15.05.2018 in which

 a trial is pending, though stayed by the High Court. Also, Shri

 Saurabh Mishra is correct in stating that “fraudulent practice”, as

 defined in clause 4.3(b) of the N.I.T., would include an omission of

 facts or disclosure of incomplete facts in order to influence the 22 bidding process. In the facts of the present case, there is clearly an

 omission of a most relevant fact and suppression of the same fact,

 namely that an FIR had been lodged against UPSBC in respect of

 the construction of a bridge by it, which had collapsed, and in which

 a charge sheet had been lodged. 20. This being the case, Secy., Deptt. of Home Secy., A.P. v. B.

 Chinnam Naidu , (2005) 2 SCC 746 is clearly distinguishable, as in

 the facts of that case, the expression “convicted” could not have

 possibly included the factum of arrest which was pre-conviction. On

 the facts of the present case, we have seen as to how UPSBC has

 indulged in a fraudulent practice and has suppressed the fact that it

 was indicted for offences relatable to the construction of a bridge by

 it, which had collapsed. Equally, paragraphs 12 to 18 of the

 judgment in Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya v. State of Gujarat ,

 (2019) 17 SCC 1, which distinguish between investigation, inquiry

 and trial in a criminal case, are also of no avail to UPSBC in view of

 the finding hereinabove. Equally, the well-known rule of contra

 proferentem as expounded in Bank of India v. K. Mohandas ,

 (2009) 5 SCC 313 (at paragraph 32) is also of no avail, given the

 fact that there is no ambiguity whatsoever insofar as the fraudulent

 practice clause and paragraph 11 of Appendix IA are concerned. 23 21. Adverting to Shri Dhruv Mehta’s argument that his client has been

 non-suited only on application of clause 7(b) of Annex I, a reference

 to the Technical Evaluation Committee’s order dated 13.03.2020

 declaring UPSBC’s bid non-responsive shows that it also refers to

 Appendix IA comprising the technical bid and paragraph 13 thereof,

 in particular. We have already held that paragraph 13 has to be

 read along with paragraph 11, which clearly states that a person

 who is “indicted” for a criminal offence has to disclose the factum of

 indictment. A technical objection based on the rejection order

 cannot be allowed to prevail in the face of the suppression of a

 most material fact, that is of an FIR pertaining to the construction of

 a bridge by UPSBC, which has collapsed. 22. Coming to the public interest factor, and the fact that the financial

 bid of UPSBC is about Rs. 9 crores less than that of Rajkamal, the

 sting has been removed inasmuch as Shri Puneet Jain readily

 accepts that if, as a result of UPSBC being disqualified, his client is

 to be awarded the tender, he will do so at the same amount as the

 financial bid of UPSBC. For all these reasons, the impugned

 judgment dated 15.06.2020 is set aside. 24 23. We now come to Rachana Construction Co.’s case. Insofar as

 Rachana Construction Co. is concerned, it will not be open for a

 constitutional court, in accordance with all the decisions cited

 hereinabove, to substitute their view of the view of the tendering

 authority, when it reads clause 2.2.2.2(ii) in the manner that has

 been done. Suffice it to say that the expression “at least one similar

 work” could possibly mean only one such work, namely, the

 construction of one such bridge and not two such bridges, even if

 two bridges were to be constructed under the same tender

 document. It is not possible, therefore, for this Court to say that the

 construction of the aforesaid clause by the tendering authority is an

 impossible one rendering it perverse. Also, Shri Puneet Jain’s

 argument, though made here for the first time, does support the

 State of Madhya Pradesh, in that the two road over bridges that

 have been constructed under the agreement between DFCCIL and

 Rachana Construction Co. have a span of only 2380 meters taken

 together, which is certainly less than 50% of 7.473 kilometers. For

 these reasons, we dismiss Rachana Construction Co.’s SLP and

 uphold the judgment dated 02.07.2020 and the review judgment

 dated 04.08.2020. 25 24. Given the lapse of time taken in court proceedings, the State of

 Madhya Pradesh is directed to issue a LOI as soon as is practically

 possible to Rajkamal insofar as the present tender is concerned at

 the same financial bid as that of UPSBC. All the appeals are

 disposed of accordingly. ……………….......................... J. (ROHINTON FALI NARIMAN)

 ……………….......................... J. (K.M. JOSEPH)

 New Delhi; December 08, 2020. 26