Statement of mr. Narendra ayyapparaju s/o a. Dayakar raju etc drr pg, no.301, ckb layout, marathahalli multiplex, bangalore.-560037. I am residing in the above mentioned address since june 2017 with my friends. I am quality control analyst working intangoe india softek services company, bellandur area, bengaluru since 2017. One day during june 2017 i was discussing with my close friend and colleague mr. Sudhakar byna about this he tried to convince me and told me that he is going on trip to malaysia and asked me also to join him so that i can overcome my personal problems. Suddenly one day when discussions were going on about malaysia trip, sudhakar byna forced me to join his business trusting him as soon as possible. As i had personal and financial problems i delayed joining the business. To this sudhakar byna was pestering me to join the business telling that he can’t hold the position for me long time and many people are missing opportunity because of me and he would be there to help me and asked me again to join at the earliest. He also told me as i am close to him i need to trust and join without asking any details. Again and again i insisted sudhakar byna to provide the details of the business to which he did not provide any information on that. He kept on dodging on providing the business details and was telling me not to tell anybody that i am doing this business etc. As he did not give details about the nature of business i doubted, if it was network marketing and told him clearly that i’m not interested to join. So he told it is not related to that you don’t have to worry on that and if in case i’m not interested in business he would return my money back. When i asked him about investment, he told he will help me getting loan. Then i asked how much i should pay for it, to which he told i have to pay approximately rs.5, 00, 000/-. To this i told i don’t have that much money as i have my own financial problems. To this mr. Sudhakar byna suggested he will help me getting loan as he had knew some person who would be doing this work. And during june 2017 the process started. One person claiming himself to be vijay (Mobile no.[protected] from hdfc bank and your no. Was given to me by ms. Pramoda and she has asked to me to help you to apply for the instant hdfc personal loan. Subsequently, ms. Pramoda forced me to apply for loan to which i yielded and applied for the loan. I don’t remember the name of the person who had come to collect my documents and he told me vijay had sent him and he will help in processing the loan etc. I think he had met me twice/thrice. After two days loan was not sanctioned, to this ms. Pramoda forced me to start the business and asked me to trust her and in case you are not interested then within 6 months she will return money my money etc. After that one day ms. Pramoda forced me to go with her for visa processing and for buying ticket to malaysia, to this i did not agree as my parents were not interested in my going to malaysia. However, ms. Pramoda forced me she convinced me and told me to convince my parents stating that we are going on a business trip form company. But still i denied later she was forcing me and following up with me every day regarding the loan and my thoughts about business and ensuring that my views about business would not change and also she made sure that i would not tell anyone regading the my joining in business. Then somehow i managed to convince my parents and i asked her exact plan of trip, who all will be going over to malaysia, date of going and probable return date etc. And process of visa etc. She did not give any proper information to which i told her i am not joining them for malaysia trip. Ms. Pramoda had taken leave and gone to malaysia.in between i checked up with hdfc bank regarding loan. Pramoda also called me from malaysia and discussed with me about my loan to which i told her still not sanctioned. She followed up from malaysia regarding my loan approval. During april end loan amount of rs. 2, 40, 000/- was sanctioned and money was transferred to my sbi account. I was still under confusion whether to join her business or not as she was not giving clear picture about what business it was. To this pramoda told that she has blocked the position for me paying some amount for that position and she forced me to join as soon as possible and she was following with me to transfer the money to her account. Then i transferred rs. 1, 70, 000/- to her sbi and hdfc account on 04th of may 2018. After transfer of money through online banking via neft, i asked for documents for having paid money, to which she told, it will be discussed at the business meeting and she arranged for meeting with her senior to discuss regarding business. The meeting was organised at pizza hut restaurant in hsr layout at 4.00 pm on 5th may 2018. On 5th may went to pizza hut for meeting, there i saw pramoda. She was alone and i asked her where others are. To which she told they are in a business meeting and it will take some time for them to arrive. Then she called someone and she told she had taken time for meeting for her friend that is me. Meanwhile, she was boasting that the person whom i would be meeting is a very successful person and i must be very lucky to get to meet her. She left her corporate & started earning handsome of money in this business. She had given her precious time to you. She is a bundle of knowledge, listen to her carefully & don’t judge her or don’t question her in b/w. By after some time one girl came, pramoda introduced her as disha to me. Then disha talked to me and enquired about me and my background and took my details and also asked how much i know pramoda and how much i trust pramoda etc. And also mentioned thatas ms. Pramoda had requested a lot regarding you with our senior partners. Because of her request you got the opportunity. So utilize the opportunity & grow with us, we will guide you in the process, by saying this she ended her conversation and then she told and asked me to wait as one more person will come and explain about the business prospects. After this disha left and one more person (Whose name i do not remember) came and explained me about the business module. This discussion went on for almost 1 hrof discussion i could only make out that it was some kind of referral mode/network type business ad after that person left i informed pramoda i feel that its networking business and i’m not interested. To which pramoda told me not tobe judgmental at first discussion as i am not aware on all their business verticals convinced me and told me once i join and start the business i will be comfortable. On attending the system you will understand the business and on paper that person explaining about left-right etc which i am not able to re-collect.in the end i could finally make out that it was a network related business. Then disha came and told some stories regarding how this business has helped her grow financially and as a person everything and tried to brainwash me on business views i had. Then she told i need to sigh some documents after that my ir account would be created for me and they would take care of that and send me my login details and credentials. Since it was already late i told her i need to leave and also they had not got any documents ready so she asked me to come next day. And i left for that day. Next day on may 6th again we met at the pizaa hut sarjapur road at around 5:30pm and they made sure that i don’t read the documents as i trust pramoda she was telling i’m a very good friend of her and she has struggled a lot to get me this opportunity and i should make use of this efficiently and also it was getting late for me so i just signed the documents. She did not inform me regarding how the money which i have paid will be invested in business. They just told it is the initial investment that is to be done to start the business. And my ir and login details will be shared by them after 3 days and they would create a watsapp group with the so called uplines and if anything important we can discuss in that group. I left for that day. Suddenly, on 25th may i received the product from qnet. I was not even aware about it. The mobile number and email id mentioned in that invoice was not mine so i was confused and i tried to reach pramoda and asked her if she had ordered any products for me. She told yes and later i asked her without informing how she can do this. She setup a conference call with disha and they convinced me telling that it’s a complimentary product that i have received for registering with qnet and product cannot be returned. If in case i don’t need the product i need to give it to pramoda. The product that i received was some diabetes power, sugarfree powder which was worth around 17k approx. Later, pramoda told me to attend the system that will be conducted on sundays and termed it to be very important. But i was still in a confusion to do the business or not so i used to not attend giving some reasons. But she used to force me to attend it and i thought of attending and see what exactly is this business about so i went for the system that was conducted on a sunday (24thjune 2018) at citrus hotels bellandur. I went there and they told me to pay rupees 150 as entry fee. I paid and went in and saw people dancing with loud music playing. I actually was blank for few minutes and i asked pramoda that you told some important meeting and what is going on here. She stated that that they would relax by dancing later they would start the meeting. So after an hour probably at 11 the system started. Then a person by name mr. Rishabchoudary entered in and all these people were treating him as a great personality and very submissive to him. Rishab started some talk about his journey with ​qnet business and was advising not to quit the business its very great platform to start this business and we should be very glad to get this opportunity and etc.. I am not able to recollect. Later the system got over by 1 clk and they told there will be a welcome meeting with rishab and i need to attend that it’s a very important meeting and they forced me and dragged me to that ccd, hsr layout where welcome was conducted. There was a lot many people sitting there probably the whole of ccd was covered by these people and waiting for rishabbhai to come. He came and gave a some talks on that working 9-5 will not fetch anything we need to invest in more time and effortsin this business and it will give us a huge profit (I. E., 4cr) in 4 years and all. Then i left from that place once it was over. The next also i told i felt like quitting the business and told i can’t convince people and all refer them. But for this she told that we are sharing the opportunity and how to share it is again a part of their process and i told her this business seems to be very funny and stupid. So she told the i haven’t started the business and know nothing about it so don’t decide anything on quitting until i know the process and each time we used to talk on the business she used to warn me stating that i should not share it with anyone until they insist me to tell. Then she shared some videos and books and asked me read and watch the videos in the sequence they have ordered. Then they asked me make name list (Approx. 500 names of people whom ever i know) and dream list (20 dreams). I again was in dilemma then asked was the use of doing this if its not reffrering people business and what role i have in this business they told that you have to complete the books and attend the system regularly only then you can understand. Then on 8thjuly 2018 second time i attend the system meeting held at samaikya restaurant, hsr layout. There was some sytem meeting conducted at chennai and they again forced me to attend but i refused. Later i wanted to know there process of business so i told one of my friend is interested in business what needs to be done. Pramoda scolded me that we told you not to share anything now but why did u share. Then she told she will discuss with ms. Disha and let me know. Then on 29 july they told me to join the association held at cuppa hsr layout. I went there and asked what has to done she told her uplinems. Rameshwari will guide me. I sat there and rameshwari came to me and asked me whether i have completed the name list and dream list i told yes. Then she asked me who are my best friends in that list of names noted. I mentioned few then she asked me there background details and the level of trust they have on me and told me to call them right away asking them to join the business if they trust me and value my friendship. They also told not tell any information on what business we are doing and just tell it’s a multi crore project and we are working on different verticals. They provide some invite call script and asked me to tell the same things. I felt very awkward doing this. I decided i can’t take this business ahead and will quit and asked ms. Pramoda to return my money as she had promised me to return if i’m not interested. But she refused to give my money back and spoke harsh with me and told me that the money is invested in product purchase. I was not informed about all this during the business meeting. They also had not shared me any login credentials my ir information nothing was shared with me. I finally decided to quit and started asking her to give my money she stopped replying to me and used to tell that i have signed all the legal documents and i can’t do anything. If incase i need my money i need to request qnet about it. So when i started researching about it i got to know refund can be done within 30days of product purchase. As i had already exiped 30 days duration nothing was on my favour. Later i tried to ask them my login credentials she used to tell im busy and can’t give right now will give you later but finally i did not receive my credentials from them. But i myself with the help of other people managed to contact qnet support team asked them to update my email id in the qnet profile and later, i tried to access my qnet profile. When i logged in there they had purchased two products in my name but i had received only one product. The other product was a club package worth 143800 lk and did not get this product also. Then i saw they have requested for delivery address change as i had scolded them not to order any products again to be ordered without my knowledge. I was not aware all these product purchase and investment details. I was cheated by them (Pramoda, disha, rameshwari, nashikanta). This business is a scam business which is fraud, cheating innocents and looting their money. It is against the legality as the pyramid shape of business is banned in india. So, i kindly request the cid team to take this case on high priority and stop this business and save many people life’s. Also, request you to create awareness among comman man, including all it sectors. It would really help many people. Thank you so much for your support! Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)