1. The present petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. has been filed

 by the petitioners, namely, Mr. Rajesh Gosain, Sh. Abhishek Arvind,

 Sh. Alok Gupta, Sh. Mohit Kothiwal, Pankaj Johari and Sh. Niraj

 Johari for quashing of FIR No.154/2011 dated 19.08.2011, under Sections 66 / 66C of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Sections 408 / 420 / 120B / 511 IPC, registered at Police Station E.O.W.

 on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between

 the petitioners and respondent no.2, namely, Mr. Shailesh Agarwal, Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 1 of 10 authorized representative of M/s Vogueserv International Pvt. Ltd.,

Noida ("Company") on 17.10.2015. 2. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor for respondent-State

submitted that the respondent no.2, present in the Court has been

identified to be the authorized representative of the complainant

Company in the FIR in question by Inspector Deveshwari. 3. The factual matrix in the present case is that a complaint was

made by Sh. Vijay Govind Saxena, General Manager(H.R.) of M/s

Vogueserv International Pvt. Ltd., to the Additional Commissioner of

Police E.O.W. against the petitioners/accused. The accused persons

were ex-employees of the Company and they entered into a criminal

conspiracy with each other and committed breach of trust by

committing data theft from the system, network and emails of the

Company and also took wrongful possession of very important and

confidential files and records etc. all of which were entrusted to them

in their official capacity and used the same for their wrongful gain

causing corresponding loss to the Company. During the second week

of July 2011, petitioner nos. 1, 2 & 4 had resigned from the services

of the complainant Company and despite the notice period given by Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 2 of 10 them, they absconded without reporting. Later it was found that Mr.

Abhishek Arvind had deleted all confidential data from the office

laptop which was in his possession. The said three petitioners

instigated petitioner no.3 to join them in the conspiracy of running

their own business and that they also took secret passwords for email

and related networks for the reason of keeping a watch over the

Company's confidential data. They also asked petitioner no.3 for

sharing the access of D-drive of Mr. Ajendra Agrawal with petitioner

no.1 so that he can misappropriate the confidential data of the

company. In the year 2012, the respondent no.2 filed a civil suit against

the petitioners before this Court being CS(OS) No. 1436 of 2012 and

vide order dated 18.05.2012 this Court restrained the petitioners from

using the data of respondent no.2 in respect of the companies

mentioned in the said suit. Thereafter, the parties entered into an

amicable settlement. 4. Respondent No.2 present in the Court, submitted that the

dispute between the parties has been amicably resolved. As per the

MOU, both the parties have on the intervention of the common Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 3 of 10 Business friends, arrived at the present amicable settlement out of

their free will and consent without any force, compulsion or coercion

from any corner and are signing the same after understanding the

contents thereof. The parties have agreed that the petitioners shall pay

a total amount of Rs. 14,00,000/- towards full and final settlement to

respondent no.2. It has also been agreed that the petitioners or

anybody acting on their behalf shall not contact the customers of

respondent no.2. It is also agreed by the parties that the petitioners

shall neither use nor possess or transfer the confidential data or the

trade secrets of respondent no.2 in any manner whatsoever. However,

Pankaj Johari-petitioner no.5 shall be entitled to pursue his legal

remedies for recovery of his dues from Company namely "Strauss

Innovations". It has been further agreed between the parties that upon

the petitioners fulfilling their obligations under this agreement, the

parties shall together file an application under Order 23 Rule 3 CPC for decreeing the civil suit filed by the respondent no.2 and

simultaneously, the petitioners shall file a petition in this Court for

quashing the FIR in question. Respondent no. 2 affirmed the contents

of the aforesaid MOU and of his affidavit dated 29.10.2015. In the Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 4 of 10 affidavit, the respondent no.2 has stated that he has no objection if the

FIR in question is quashed. All the disputes and differences have been

resolved through mutual consent. Now no dispute with petitioners

survives and so, the proceedings arising out of the FIR in question be

brought to an end. Statement of the respondent No.2 has been

recorded in this regard in which he stated that he has entered into a

compromise with the petitioners on behalf of the Company and has

settled all the disputes with them. He further stated that he has no

objection if the FIR in question is quashed. 5. In Gian Singh v. State of Punjab (2012) 10 SCC 303 Apex

Court has recognized the need of amicable resolution of disputes in

cases like the instant one, by observing as under:- 6. The aforesaid dictum stands reiterated by the Apex Court in a

recent judgment in Narinder Singh v. State of Punjab (2014) 6 SCC Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 5 of 10 466. The relevant observations of the Apex Court in Narinder Singh (Supra) are as under:- While exercising the power the High Court is to form
 an opinion on either of the aforesaid two objectives.
 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in those
 prosecutions which involve heinous and serious
 offences of mental depravity or offences like murder,
 rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not private in
 nature and have a serious impact on society. Similarly, for the offences alleged to have been
 committed under special statute like the Prevention of
 Corruption Act or the offences committed by public
 servants while working in that capacity are not to be Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 6 of 10 quashed merely on the basis of compromise between
 the victim and the offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases having
 overwhelmingly and predominantly civil character,
 particularly those arising out of commercial
 transactions or arising out of matrimonial relationship
 or family disputes should be quashed when the parties
 have resolved their entire disputes among themselves. 7. The inherent powers of the High Court ought to be exercised to

prevent the abuse of process of law and to secure the ends of justice.

The respondent no.2 agreed to the quashing of the FIR in question and

has stated that the matter has been settled out of his own free will. As

the matter has been settled and compromised amicably, so, there

would be an extraordinary delay in the process of law if the legal

proceedings between the parties are carried on. So, this Court is of

the considered opinion that this is a fit case to invoke the jurisdiction

under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to prevent the abuse of process of law and

to secure the ends of justice. 8. The incorporation of inherent power under Section 482 Cr.P.C.

is meant to deal with the situation in the absence of express provision

of law to secure the ends of justice such as, where the process is

abused or misused; where the ends of justice cannot be secured;

where the process of law is used for unjust or unlawful object; to Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 7 of 10 avoid the causing of harassment to any person by using the provision

of Cr.P.C . or to avoid the delay of the legal process in the delivery of

justice. Whereas, the inherent power is not to be exercised to

circumvent the express provisions of law. 9. It is settled law that the inherent power of the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. should be used sparingly. The Hon'ble Apex

Court in the case of State of Maharashtra through CBI v. Vikram

Anatrai Doshi and Ors. MANU/SC/0842/2014 and in the case of

Inder Singh Goswami v. State of Uttaranchal MANU/SC/0808/2009

has observed that powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. must be

exercised sparingly, carefully and with great caution. Only when the

Court comes to the conclusion that there would be manifest injustice

or there would be abuse of the process of the Court if such power is

not exercised, Court would quash the proceedings. 10. It is a well settled law that where the High Court is convinced

that the offences are entirely personal in nature and therefore do not

affect public peace or tranquillity and where it feels that quashing of

such proceedings on account of compromise would bring about peace

and would secure ends of justice, it should not hesitate to quash them. Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 8 of 10 In such cases, pursuing prosecution would be waste of time and

energy. Non-compoundable offences are basically an obstruction in

entering into compromise. In certain cases, the main offence is

compoundable but the connected offences are not. In the case of B.S.

Joshi and others v. State of Haryana and another 2003 (4) SCC 675

the Hon'ble Apex Court observed that even though the provisions of Section 320 Cr.P.C. would not apply to such offences which are not

compoundable, it did not limit or affect the powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. The Hon'ble Apex Court laid down that if for the purpose of

securing the ends of justice, quashing of FIR becomes necessary, section 320 Cr.P.C. would not be a bar to the exercise of power of

quashing. In the nutshell, the Hon'ble Apex Court justified the

exercise of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to quash the

proceedings to secure the ends of justice in view of the special facts

and circumstances of the case, even where the offences were non-

compoundable. In the light of the aforesaid, this Court is of the view that

notwithstanding the fact the offence under Section 511 IPC is non-

compoundable offence, there should be no impediment in quashing Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 9 of 10 the FIR under this section, if the Court is otherwise satisfied that the

facts and circumstances of the case so warrant. 11. In the facts and circumstances of this case and in view of

statement made by the respondent No.2, the FIR in question warrants

to be put to an end and proceedings emanating thereupon need to be

quashed. 12. Accordingly, this petition is allowed and FIR No.154/2011

dated 19.08.2011, under Sections 66 / 66C of the Information

Technology Act, 2000 and Sections 408 / 420 / 120B / 511 IPC,

registered at Police Station E.O.W. and the proceedings emanating

therefrom are quashed against the petitioners. 13. This petition is accordingly disposed of. (P.S.TEJI)
 JUDGE
JANUARY 29, 2016
dd Crl.M.C. 4527/2015 Page 10 of 10