1. Vide this order, this court shall decide a Criminal
 Appeal filed by the Appellant-Father-in-law under Section
 29 of Protection of Women From Domestic Violence Act,
 2005 (hereinafter be referred as " DV Act ) against the order
 dated 09.08.2023 (hereinafter be referred to as the
 "impugned order") passed by the court of Ld. MM (Mahila CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.1/17 VINEET Digitally signed by
 VINEET KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09
 16:32:50 +0530
 Court-01) (Shahdara) (hereinafter referred to as 'Trial
 Court') in CT Case bearing No. 1624/2021 titled as Deepali
 Sharma Vs. Hari Krishna Sharma and Ors . 2. In brief, the facts of the present case are that
 complainant (Respondent herein) had filed an application u/s
 12 / 18 / 19 / 20 & 22 of D.V. Act along with application u/s
 23(2) DV Act against her father-in-law Hari Krishna Sharma
 (Appellant herein), mother-in-law Rekha Sharma and sister-
 in-law Ruchika Sharma, wherein she has stated that her
 marriage was solemnized with deceased son of appellant on
 20.04.2007 as per Hindu rites and customs at New Delhi and
 parents of complainant spent Rs.10-12 lakh in the marriage;
 that respondents were not happy with the articles given by
 parents of complainant in the marriage; that after marriage,
 the respondents had continuously harassed the complainant
 and tortured her to give money to them; that ultimately in
 June 2019, complainant was thrown out of her matrimonial
 home by her in-laws and since then she has been residing in
 her parental house; that all gold and silver jewellery articles,
 istridhan and all documents are still in the possession of
 respondents; that complainant received a call from
 chachi/mother-in-law and she informed her that Vimal-
 husband of complainant was in very serious condition due to
 over drinking of alcohol and he was admitted in hospital;
 that complainant along with her parents and brother went to
 hospital, but nobody allowed her to meet him; that on
 08.11.2020, complainant came to know from some relative
 that her husband has expired, however, respondents had not
 informed her about the same; that complainant along with
 her parents and brother had gone to cremation ground at
 Nigam Bodh Ghat; that after some time, father, brother and
 VINEET Digitally signed by
 VINEET KUMAR

CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali KUMARSharma Page No.2/17 Date : 2025.06.09
 16:33:03 +0530
 uncle of complainant went to her matrimonial home and they
 requested the respondents to return her stridhan/gold
 jewellery, but they flatly refused to return the same; that
 respondent no.3 and her husband are permanently residing at
 her matrimonial home since May 2019 till date; that
 respondent no.3 is the main person, who wants to grab the
 whole property of her parents; that all bank balances, Fixed
 Deposits, life insurance policies and other investments of
 complainant's husband are lying in the custody of
 respondents and being legally wedded wife/widow of her
 late husband, complainant has every right to take benefits of
 the same; that after death of complainant's husband,
 respondents are liable to give maintenance as well as to
 provide her residence rights being widow daughter-in-law of
 respondent no.1 and 2. Therefore, having no other option,
 the Complainant filed a Petition under section
 12 / 18 / 19 / 20 / 22 DV Act, wherein she has alleged certain
 incidents of commission of domestic violence upon her
 during the subsistence of domestic relationship with
 appellant and claimed various reliefs under the provisions of
 the Act. 3. Along with the petition u/s 12 D.V. Act, complainant
 had also moved an application seeking interim maintenance
 against the Appellant and by order dated 09.08.2023, the Ld.
 Trial Court allowed the application and directed the
 Appellant/R1 to pay interim maintenance of Rs.5,000/- per
 month to complainant into the bank account of complainant
 from the date of filing of petition i.e. 03.12.2021 till disposal
 of the complaint or till such time, complainant is entitled to
 receive the same, whichever is earlier. VINEET Digitally signed by
 VINEET KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09
 16:33:12 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.3/17 4. Aggrieved by the said order, the appellant preferred
 the present appeal for setting aside of the impugned order
 mainly on the following grounds: 5. Ld. Counsel for appellant has argued on the lines of
 grounds taken in the instant appeal and submitted that the
 respondent herself is running a boutique and earning income
 from it. Also, it has been argued that appellant being father-
 in-law of respondent is otherwise not liable to pay any
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:33:22
 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.4/17 maintenance to her. Therefore, order of the Ld. Trial Court to
 pay interim maintenance is liable to be set aside. 6. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for Respondent has
 argued that appellant has failed to point out any infirmity in
 the impugned order and the Ld. Trial Court had passed the
 impugned order after going through the complaint as well as
 income affidavits of both the parties. It is further argued that
 this appeal is just an abuse of legal process and has been
 filed only to defeat/delay a well-reasoned maintenance order
 passed by the trial court and thus the same is liable to be
 dismissed. 7. I have heard the arguments addressed on behalf of
 both sides and perused the material available on record. 8. At the outset, it is essential to understand the scheme
 of DV Act . A petition u/s 12 Act can be filed only by an
 'aggrieved person' claiming one or more reliefs provided
 under the Act. An aggrieved person is defined in Section
 2(a) of the Act to mean any woman, who is or has been, in a
 domestic relationship with the respondent and who alleges to
 have been subjected to any act of domestic violence by the
 respondent. Further, complainant shall be entitled to any
 interim relief as per provisions of D.V. Act , only if domestic
 relationship between the parties is established and there is
 commission of domestic violence upon her during the course
 of aforesaid relationship. 9. It is worth mentioning that appellant has admittedly
 stated that marriage of his son was solemnized with
 respondent/complainant on 20.04.2007 at Delhi, thus,
 domestic relationship between the parties is well established.
 Further, there are specific allegations of physical, emotional
 VINEET Digitally signed by
 VINEET KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09
 16:33:34 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.5/17 and mental torture upon the respondent/complainant in the
 present matter. 10. Further, it is a settled law that for grant of interim
 relief to the aggrieved party, court can take the averments
 made by the parties along with their respective affidavits of
 assets and liabilities into consideration. Pertinently, the
 respondent/ complainant by way of an application u/s 23 D.V. Act, had sought an interim relief for an amount of
 Rs.30,000/- p.m. along with litigation expenses for herself,
 while the Ld. Trial Court, by virtue of the impugned order,
 had directed the appellant/father-in-law to pay an interim
 maintenance of Rs.5,000/- per month to the complainant-
 daughter in law to be paid in the bank account of
 complainant from the date of filing of petition. 11. Pertinently, under DV Act , the monetary relief to be
 granted, has to be adequate, fair and reasonable and
 consistent with the standard of living to which the aggrieved
 person is accustomed to. Although, under the D.V. Act ,
 father-in-law, who has been directed to pay interim
 maintenance in the case in hand, would be well covered
 within the ambit of the definition of word 'respondent', as
 provided under Section 2(q) of the Act and a daughter in law
 may be entitled to reliefs under the Act against him,
 however, as per scheme of things the primary responsibility
 of maintaining the complainant-wife is upon the husband,
 but in the present case, the father-in-law has been burdened
 with the same. Even though, father- in- law may be directed
 to pay interim maintenance to daughter-in-law, but that has
 to be seen on case- to- case basis and only if the facts and
 circumstances demand. However, it is worth mentioning that
 in the case in hand, admittedly Appellant's son and
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR
 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:33:45 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.6/17 respondent got married on 20.04.2007 and date of their
 separation, as per contention of respondent when she is
 stated to be thrown out of matrimonial home, is 10.06.2019.
 The said contention has been vehemently opposed by the
 appellant by stating that on the contrary, respondent had left
 her matrimonial house on her own accord/sweet will and
 thereafter despite requests made by the appellant's side, she
 did not return, even when she was told that her husband was
 not keeping well. Further, it is stated on behalf of appellant
 that respondent severed her ties with the family of her
 husband and had nothing to do with the appellant or any
 other family members of the appellant, so much so that she
 did not visit her husband in the hospital even once, when he
 was admitted there. Importantly, the aforesaid contentions on
 behalf of appellant have only been plainly denied on behalf
 of respondent in the reply to the pending appeal as well as in
 the rejoinder filed by the respondent in response to written
 statement filed by appellant, before the Ld. Trial court,
 without answering the same as to the point of substance.
 Even in the petition under Section 12 DV Act, it has been
 averred on behalf of respondent that she received a call from
 chachi, who is stated to have told her about the admission of
 husband of respondent in a hospital due to over drinking of
 alcohol, upon which respondent along with her parents and
 brother went to the hospital, but nobody allowed them to
 meet her husband. However, the said averment seems to be
 bereft of specific details either of the hospital or about the
 date on which she visited her husband. Also, nothing has
 been mentioned therein as to what action/effort was
 taken/made by the respondent when she was allegedly not
 allowed to meet her ailing husband at hospital. Even if the
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:33:53
 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.7/17 said averment made before the Ld.Trial Court is taken as
 gospel truth, then too, it seems that no further effort was
 made by her to meet her husband, otherwise the same would
 have been mentioned in the petition. Moreover, in case she
 was really not allowed to meet her husband, then a
 complaint in this regard could have been moved to the police
 seeking their intervention. Further, during the course of
 arguments in the pending appeal, it was never refuted on her
 behalf even once that she did not visit her late husband in the
 hospital. Importantly, one contention in the appeal that
 "respondent herself left the company of her late husband in
 June 2019 much prior to death of her husband and she took
 all her ornaments of gold and silver, cash, clothes and
 documents at the time of leaving the matrimonial home
 without any reason" has only been plainly/evasively denied,
 without answering the same as to the point of substance. It is
 worthwhile to mention that it is not in dispute that
 respondent had already left the matrimonial house while her
 husband was alive, however, regarding the contention on her
 behalf that she was ousted from her matrimonial house and
 was subjected to cruelty by the appellant and other family
 members during the time she was residing in the
 matrimonial house, it may well be stated that not even a
 single complaint was filed by the respondent since her
 marriage took place on 20.04.2007 till the date of separation
 on 10.06.19 and not even soon thereafter. It is worthwhile to
 mention that under normal circumstances, if a daughter-in-
 law is ousted from her matrimonial house against her wishes,
 then the first thing which is expected to be done by her
 would be to instantly file a complaint or approach the
 women's commission or other authorities, but it is beyond
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:34:02
 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.8/17 comprehension as to why no such step was taken by her
 immediately. Pertinently, it intrigues this court no end that if
 at all, the respondent was aggrieved by the fact that she was
 forcibly ousted from the matrimonial house, then why did
 she take a long time to file her first complaint i.e. under DV
 Act , which as per record, was belatedly filed only around 2.5
 years after the date of separation and after more than one
 year of the death of her husband. In addition to this, the FIR
 u/s 498A/406 IPC was got registered only after around three
 years of separation and only after around 1.5 years of death
 of her husband. Importantly, no explanation whatsoever
 with respect to the aforesaid delay in filing the
 complaint/FIR has been given on behalf of respondent, more
 so, as it has been contended in the petition filed before the
 trial court that she was thrown out of her matrimonial house
 by her husband and other family members in presence of her
 father. Further, the delay on behalf of respondent in taking
 any action is all the more baffling, as it was contended
 before the trial court on behalf of respondent that she and her
 father were given stern directions by the appellant and his
 family by saying jab tumhare paas 5 lakh rupye or car ka
 intzaam ho jaye to bata dena hum le aayenge. Moreover, it is
 not even her case in the petition filed under DV Act before
 the Ld. Trial court that when she was allegedly ousted from
 her matrimonial house, then she went back to her parental
 house and told her parents and brother about the fact that she
 was subjected to domestic violence/cruelty by the appellant
 and his family members including her husband and they
 advised her not to take any action to save her matrimonial
 life. Further, the contention that the appellant and his family
 members had taken away her stridhan, which upon several
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR
 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:34:10 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.9/17 demands, was not returned, also seems to lack specific
 details as to when the said stridhan, if at all in possession of
 the other side, was demanded back by the respondent from
 the appellant and his family. Moreover, whether at all the
 said istridhan/gold & silver jewellery was ever handed over
 to the Appellant and his family or not, is a matter of trial and
 is yet to be proved, especially when no bills/invoices
 pertaining to the same have been placed on record before the
 trial court. 12. Further, interim relief was sought by the respondent
 before the trial court by contending that after she was ousted
 from the matrimonial home, her parents have been taking
 care of her needs and as per affidavit filed on record, her
 monthly expenses are Rs.30,000/-. However, the said
 contention also does not seem to be supported by any
 documentary proof, more so, as she has not filed any specific
 details as to who exactly has been incurring the expenses as
 stated above on the respondent and if at all, the same are
 being incurred, then from what source, the said amount is
 being spent for the needs of respondent. Regarding the
 contention on behalf of respondent before the trial court that
 she is residing on rent, it is worth mentioning that only a rent
 agreement for tenancy beginning w.e.f. 25.10.2022 has been
 filed, but inexplicably the same seems to have been executed
 only on 21.12.2022 pertaining to property bearing no. 255,
 New Layalpur, Chander Nagar, East Delhi, Delhi-110051.
 Further, in the said agreement, it has been mentioned that
 respondent has been a tenant for the last two years in the said
 property, but no document in support of said tenancy with
 respect to previous 2 years has been filed on record.
 Importantly, a copy of front page of passbook of Kangra
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:34:18
 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.10/17 Cooperative Bank Ltd. belonging to the respondent has been
 placed on record on her behalf, wherein the address of
 respondent at the time of opening the account in the said
 bank on 25.10.2022 is shown as 283/5, Dixit Gali, New
 Layalpur, Chander Nagar, Krishna Nagar, East Delhi-51,
 which is inexplicably contradictory to the address given in
 the rent agreement placed on record by the respondent
 pertaining to the same date i.e. 25.10.2022. It is beyond the
 comprehension of this court as to how the respondent was
 residing at two different addresses on the same date and this
 discrepancy creates a doubt on the version put forth by the
 respondent, which may well be appreciated by the Ld. Trial
 Court at an appropriate stage. In addition to this, it is beyond
 explanation as to why respondent in her urgent application
 filed before the trial court has stated that she has to take
 loans for rental accommodation, whereas a contrary stand
 has been taken by her in the affidavit of assets and liability
 filed before the trial court, wherein she has stated that her
 parents are taking care of her needs and she is totally
 dependent on them. Also, in sub column '6' of the column
 no. 'G' i.e. assets owned by the deponent in the aforesaid
 affidavit, against the details of loans taken by the deponent,
 respondent has categorically mentioned 'NA', which clearly
 negates her version that she has to take loans for rental
 accommodation and thus raises doubt about the veracity of
 her claim. 13. Further, interim relief was also sought by the
 respondent before the Ld. Trial court by contending that
 during the time she was residing at her matrimonial home,
 she was subjected to harassment, cruelty as well as domestic
 violence. Pertinently, a Domestic Incident Report (DIR) was
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:34:26 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.11/17 +0530
 filed before the trial court wherein contradictory versions as
 to demand of money are apparent on the face of it, as at one
 place under the heading 'Dowry related harassment', it has
 been mentioned that a demand of Rs.5 lakh and a car was
 made, whereas in the said report, under the heading 'any
 other information.....', it has been categorically mentioned
 that her husband and his family members had demanded an
 amount of Rs. 2 lakhs and a car on 10.06.2019 i.e. the date
 of separation. The said discrepancy as to the amount
 allegedly demanded by the appellant and his family does not
 inspire confidence and raises some sort of doubt as to the
 version of the respondent before the trial court. Further, it
 has been contended by the respondent in the petition filed
 before the Ld. Trial court that she was subjected to cruelty/
 domestic violence, as she was forcibly made to consume
 some pudiya/pills by the wife and daughter of appellant in
 the year 2008, however, it may well be said that these
 allegations also do not inspire any confidence, as apart from
 bald submissions in this regard, nothing has been placed on
 record by the respondent to even remotely suggest that she
 was forcibly administered some objectionable substance by
 the wife and daughter of appellant, more so, as no action
 whatsoever was taken by the respondent by filing a
 complaint/FIR in this regard, especially when the act alleged
 to have been done was supposed to be a serious one, which
 may have led to serious consequences as far as health/well-
 being of respondent is concerned. It is noteworthy that even
 if the aforesaid allegations are presumed to be correct for a
 moment, then too, it may well be said that the same are not
 against the appellant and are instead levelled against his wife
 as well as his daughter, against whom no directions
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR
 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:34:34 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.12/17 whatsoever have been passed in the impugned order. In
 addition to this, it is worth mentioning that the Ld. Trial
 court has ignored the fact that the allegations of domestic
 violence mentioned in the DIR as well as in the petition filed
 before the said court are primarily against the wife and
 daughter of appellant, whereas the same against the
 appellant are only general in nature. Moreover, the said
 allegations upon the appellant do not seem to be
 substantiated by any documentary proof on record and even
 otherwise, the same are a matter of trial and are yet to be
 proved. Further, the said allegations of cruelty/ domestic
 violence by the appellant seems to be negated to a great
 extent in the light of medical documents pertaining to
 respondent, placed on record by the appellant. Perusal of
 said documents clearly reveals that respondent was
 undergoing treatment for complications as far as
 conception/pregnancy is concerned. Further, perusal of the
 said documents also seem to reveal that IVF treatment of
 respondent was going on from a private clinic and payment
 of substantial amount of money for the said purpose prima
 facie seems to have been made by the appellant, as per
 documentary proof on record. 14. Further, apart from a house, which is alleged to be the
 matrimonial house/shared household of the respondent,
 appellant does not seem to be having any other property or
 source of income, as per the affidavit filed, however, the
 interim maintenance amount seems to have been fixed by the
 Ld. Trial court without considering the aforesaid financial
 capacity of the appellant/father-in-law as well as his age i.e.
 75 years (at the time of passing of impugned order). Further,
 the fact that he has been battling several old age ailments
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:34:43
 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.13/17 and also has an old aged wife to take care of, seems to have
 been ignored by the trial court while passing the impugned
 order. 15. Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that
 respondent/complainant has relied upon the judgment passed
 by the Hon'ble SC in the case of Ajay Kumar Vs. Lata @
 Sharuti and Ors. Crl . Appeal No. 617 of 2019 (SLP CRL.
 No. 652 of 2019). Pertinently, this court while owing
 allegiance and being duty bound to follow the said law laid
 down by the Hon'ble Court, would still like to point out that
 the said authority is of no assistance to the respondent, as the
 same is very much distinguishable on facts. In the said case,
 maintenance was directed by the Hon'ble Court to be given
 by brother-in-law to the respondent(wife of deceased
 brother), as he and his deceased brother were jointly running
 a kiryana store and parties were residing in a house, which
 belonged to Hindu Joint Family and was an ancestral
 property, which is not the case in hand by any stretch of
 imagination nor any such pleadings have been taken by the
 respondent before the trial court or here in this appeal, at the
 time of filing reply to the same. It is worth mentioning that
 only in the affidavit of assets and liabilities, respondent has
 stated that matrimonial house is an ancestral property,
 however, no document in this regard has been placed on
 record by the respondent, while on the other hand, a copy of
 will pertaining to the property in question bequeathed in
 favour of appellant has been furnished on record by the
 appellant, which prima facie suggests that the said property
 is a self-acquired property. Moreover, it is for the respondent
 to prove the contrary and whether the property is ancestral or
 not is a matter of trial. VINEET Digitally signed by
 VINEET KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09
 16:34:50 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.14/17 16. Otherwise, it is a settled law that a daughter-in-law
 may claim maintenance from her father-in-law under Section
 19 of Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act subject to the
 condition that she is unable to maintain herself with her own
 earnings or where she has no property of her own and is
 unable to maintain herself from estate of her husband or her
 father or her mother or her son, daughter. However, sub section 2 of Section 19 of the said Act, has created a caveat
 against right of daughter-in-law to claim maintenance from
 her father-in-law that she cannot claim the same except out
 of coparcernary property in possession of her father-in-law,
 in which her deceased husband has a share and she has not
 already obtained the same. It is worthwhile to mention that
 an application in the light of aforesaid provision for seeking
 interim maintenance by the respondent against the appellant
 was filed before the Judge, Family Court (Shahdara) and the
 same was dismissed vide order dated 15.02.2024 with the
 finding that interim maintenance application is not
 maintainable, as appellant and his wife are old aged and
 have no source of earning and that the property, which is
 stated herein to be the matrimonial home/shared household
 of respondent, is not a coparcenary/ancestral property, but is
 a self-acquired property. Moreover, it is worth mentioning
 that in the absence of anything placed on record with respect
 to stay, if any, on the aforesaid order by a higher court, the
 said order is binding upon the respondent. 17. Last but not the least, it would be profitable to place
 reliance upon the judgment of Jagdev Singh Vs. Paramjeet
 Kaur CRR No. 2937 of 2010 (O & M), wherein the Hon'ble
 Punjab and Haryana High Court has placed reliance upon Vimalben Ajitbhai Patel Vs. Vatsalaben Ashokbhai Patel and
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR
 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:34:58 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.15/17 Ors. 2008 (3) SCC 649, in which the Hon'ble Apex Court
 has held that obligation to maintain a daughter-in-law arises
 only when the husband has died and such an obligation can
 be met from the properties of which the husband is a co-
 sharer and not otherwise. Thus, the Hon'ble Punjab and
 Haryana High Court in Jagdev Singh (supra) has held that a
 daughter-in-law can claim maintenance from father-in-law in
 case she is able to prove by adducing evidence/documents
 that the property in question is a Joint Hindu Family
 property or ancestral property, in which her deceased
 husband has a right. So, in the light of aforesaid authority, it
 may well be said that respondent may prove by way of
 leading evidence that the property in question is an ancestral
 property and her husband had a share in the same, therefore,
 she has a right to be maintained out of it. 18. Thus, in the light of above factual scenario, it may
 well be said that fixing interim maintenance in favour of
 respondent-daughter in law payable by the appellant-father-
 in-law was not warranted at that stage. However, this court
 may hasten to add that in case allegations against the
 appellant/father-in-law are proved upon leading evidence by
 the respondent, then it would be open to the Ld. Trial court
 to appropriately fix an amount, if any, against the appellant
 at the time of disposal of DV petition. 19. Therefore, considering the above discussion, this
 court is of the opinion that Ld. Trial Court has erred by
 passing the impugned order and suffice it to state that the
 same is not sustainable, especially considering the facts and
 circumstances of the present case. 20. Accordingly, the present appeal stands allowed and as
 a result, impugned order is set aside. However, it may well
 VINEET Digitally signed by VINEET
 KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09 16:35:05
 +0530 CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.16/17 be stated that nothing expressed herein above shall
 tantamount to any expression of this court on merits of the
 case pending before the trial court. Appeal file be consigned to Record Room. TCR be sent back to Ld. Trial Court along with copy
 of this Order for necessary information and compliance, if
 any. VINEET Digitally signed by
 VINEET KUMAR

 KUMAR Date: 2025.06.09
 16:35:15 +0530

 Announced in the open (Vineet Kumar)
 court on 09.06.2025 Presently: Addl. Sessions
 Judge-02, West District
 Tis Hazari, Delhi. Earlier: Addl. Sessions Judge-02,
 E-Court, Shahdara District
 KKD Courts, Delhi. (Transferred vide order no. 5/D-3/Gaz.IA/DHC/2025
 dated 30.05.2025) CA No. 170/2023 Hari Krishna Vs. Deepali Sharma Page No.17/17