After making a name for itself in the digital lending space, Moneyview is now looking at Dalal Street. The Bengaluru-based startup has filed its draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for a Rs 1,500 crore initial public offering (IPO).

The price band and valuation are still under wraps, with more details expected closer to the listing. For now, Moneyview’s draft documents offer a peek into the IPO size, financials, early investor windfall and looming risks.

The IPO will be a mix of a fresh issue of shares worth Rs 1,500 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) of up to 136,095,900 shares by investors who are ready to ring the cash register.

Early believers such as Accel India, Apis Partners, Tiger Global, and Ribbit Capital are lining up to book healthy exits.

Ribbit Capital, one of Moneyview’s earliest backers, is poised for a bumper payout. Its exit value is a staggering 15.6x higher than that of Apis Partners, 13x higher than Crimson Winter’s and nearly three-fold higher than Tiger Global.

Accel India is also set for a windfall. Its exit value is 8.4x higher than Apis Partners’s and 7x higher than that of Crimson Winter.

The exit value is calculated by comparing the prices at which investors bought shares at. For instance, Ribbit’s weighted average cost of acquisition per share was Rs 2.87, making its exit value significantly higher than Apis Partners, which bought at Rs 44.74 a piece.

The IPO mandate is being managed by Axis Capital, BofA Securities, IIFL Capital and Kotak Investment Bank. Moneyview has also slotted a pre-IPO placement worth up to Rs 300 crore, which, if completed, will proportionally trim the size of the fresh issue without altering end-uses.

Moneyview, formerly Whizdm Innovations, plans to deploy the fresh issue proceeds over the next two years to drive up loan disbursals under default loss guarantee (DLG) arrangements and strengthen its non-banking financial company arm, WhizDM Finance.

Of the total, Rs 650 crore is earmarked to provide DLG cover to lending partners, aimed at boosting the credit distribution business and scaling financial services operations. As of the nine months that ended on December 31, 2025, the aggregate amount of DLGs outstanding stood at Rs 847 crore.

Another Rs 450 crore will go towards investment in Whizdm Finance Private Limited (WFPL), a middle-layer NBFC through which Moneyview extends loans to its customers. This capital infusion is aimed at improving WFPL’s net worth, strengthening its balance sheet, enhancing its credit profile, and supporting its planned growth.

According to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines , all middle-layer NBFCs are required to maintain a capital adequacy ratio of 15% of their aggregator risk-weighted assets on the balance sheet.

WFPL disbursed loans worth Rs 5,429.6 crore in the nine months ended December 2025, a 38% jump from Rs 3,933 crore in FY25.

The remaining funds will be used to cover general corporate purposes, including working capital and strategic investments, capped at 25% of gross proceeds in compliance with SEBI norms, the DRHP says.

The financials paint a picture of steady ascent, albeit with a few caveats. For the first nine months ended December 31, 2025 (9M FY26), Moneyview reported an operating revenue of Rs 2,373.3 crore, up from Rs 2,339.1 crore posted in the entire FY25. The fintech company’s revenue from operations stood at Rs 1,342.4 crore in FY24 and Rs 648.1 crore in FY23.

EBITDA came in at Rs 748.6 crore in nine months of FY26, significantly higher than Rs 698 crore in FY25 and Rs 328.7 crore in FY24. Moneyview reported a net profit of Rs 209.7 crore in the first nine months of FY26. The lending tech startup had reported a net profit of Rs 240.3 crore in FY25, a sharp increase from Rs 171.1 crore in FY24 and Rs 162.6 crore in FY23.

Platform metrics are also moving in the right direction. The number of unique visitors or registered users rose to 125.49 million in 9M FY26 from 109.59 million in FY25. Monetised users, registered users who have availed at least one revenue-generating product on Moneyview, increased to 9.73 million in 9M FY26, compared to 7.45 million in FY25.

In its IPO prospectus, Moneyview said that frequent regulatory interventions by the RBI around DLG caps, buy now, pay later (BNPL) norms, and restrictions on outsourcing of core lending functions pose significant risks to its business model.

In February 2026, the RBI restored the DLG framework for NBFCs, rolling back last year’s curbs that had forced them to make higher provisions on loans sourced through credit partners.

Moneyview said that sudden policy shifts can impact unit economics, restrict product offerings, change product strategy, and require time-consuming platform overhauls.

In FY25, the lending tech startup also expanded its offerings with the launch of several new products, including credit cards, earned wage access, home loans, loans against property, insurance, digital gold and unified payments interface (UPI).

With the expansion of service offerings, the platform now also falls under the purview of regulatory bodies such as IRDAI and SEBI, exposing it to a higher degree of scrutiny.

Fintech NBFCs like Moneyview are heavily dependent on external funding for day-to-day operations, but getting access to long-term, low-cost capital is quite challenging.

“In a tight credit environment, this can constrain disbursal capacity and force platforms to scale back, Moneyview said.

As per the IPO prospectus, Moneyview works with multiple lending partners, including its own NBFC arm Whizdm Finance, as well as with banks and other NBFCs, which underwrite and disburse loans to customers on its platform. It also operates under a distribution-led model for other financial products (non-lending) in partnership with third-party financial partners.

In 9M FY26, the top 10 financial partners accounted for 37.31% or Rs 885.5 crore of the company’s total revenue. In FY25, the top 10 partners raked in a revenue of 1,095 crore, accounting for 46.82% of the top line.

While these financial partners are crucial to Moneyview’s business, they don’t have an exclusive contract with the company and may choose to terminate their relationship and join hands with a competitor instead. This could dent Moneyview’s business, financial condition, cash flows, operations and future prospects.

“Rapid growth into sub-prime and new-to-credit segments exposes platforms to higher default risk. A lack of credit bureau depth in many cases weakens risk assessment. As economic conditions tighten, maintaining portfolio quality without compromising growth is a key challenge. Failure to balance growth with asset quality could lead to rising GNPA levels and increased provisioning burdens,” said Moneyview.

Moneyview operates as a lending service provider with regulated entities to facilitate personal loans. As part of these arrangements, the company participates in underlying credit risk and provides a DLG cover of up to 5% of loan portfolio to lending partners in line with RBI’s guidelines for NBFCs.

The DLGs provided by the company are invoked upon the occurrence of credit losses. If there is an increase in borrower defaults in the portfolios covered under DLG arrangements, this would result in an increase in the company’s DLG expense, which could adversely affect its financial performance.

As of December 31, 2025, the company had facilitated loans worth Rs 9,165.7 crore under its DLG partnerships. Meanwhile, DLG expense stood at Rs 318.8 crore during the same period, accounting for 15.3% of the company’s total expenses.

The digital lending space and the broader fintech industry are witnessing intense competition, which has pushed platforms to offer zero-cost EMIs, deep discounts and cashback-led acquisition, Moneyview said in its DRHP.

“Coupled with rising digital marketing costs and limited pricing power in lending, this puts pressure on contribution margins and delays breakeven for many players. Without a path to sustainable unit economics, long-term profitability remains elusive for many digital lenders,” it added.

As digital lending companies collect and process sensitive financial and user behaviour data, they face mounting scrutiny under data protection laws such as the DPDP Act. Any breach or misuse can erode customer trust and invite regulatory action. Therefore, securing systems against fraud and cyberattacks is increasingly non-negotiable.

In August 2025, Moneyview’s NBFC arm, Whizdm Finance, suffered a cyber attack , where hackers exploited vulnerabilities in the application programming interface (API) integrated with partner banks and initiated a substantial number of unauthorised withdrawals from the platform’s bank accounts through unapproved third-party systems, with losses aggregating Rs 48.3 crore.

“Although we have implemented the security measures described above and established a cybersecurity policy to address cybersecurity and other technology related threats and risks, we cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent all future attacks, effectively mitigate the risks if such threats materialize or that our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations will not be adversely affected,” Moneyview said.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event