Heard Dr. Sujay Kantawala along with Mr. P. Choudhari, learned
 counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Pradeep Jetly, learned senior counsel
 along with Mr. J. B. Mishra, learned counsel for the respondents. 2. By filing this petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India, petitioner has sought for the following reliefs:- 3. On 08.09.2020, this Court had issued notice on admission as well
on stay while directing the respondents to file affidavit. Subsequently an
affidavit was filed by the respondents. 4. On 08.10.2020, the interim prayer of the petitioner was heard
whereafter the following order was passed:- 9.6. Allegation of the petitioner that no order of provisional
attachment was passed by the Commissioner has been denied as it is
stated that order for provisional attachment in Form GST DRC-22 was
issued which is the requisite format under section 83 of the CGST Act
read with rule 159 of the CGST Rules. 10. Petitioner has filed rejoinder affidavit denying the allegations
made against him by the respondents. Regarding the statement made by
him on 28.02.2020, he has stated that it was not a voluntary statement
but one made under duress. He has stated that M/s. XS Components has
exported goods worth Rs.114 crores and had realized about Rs.22 crores.
Before the entire dues could be realized and paid to the suppliers, the
search was carried out and original documents were seized, further
blocking importer exporter code of the petitioner. Regarding freezing of
bank accounts, he has stated that it came to his notice only when his
son's school payment cheque got dishonoured. 11. In the additional affidavit filed by respondent Nos.5 to 7
following order of this Court dated 08.10.2020, reference has been made 8/18 WPL2901_20.doc

to office memorandum dated 12.05.2019 issued by the Central Board of
Indirect Taxes and Customs wherein it is provided that provision for
provisional attachment of property including bank accounts contained in section 83 of the CGST Act read with rule 159 of the CGST Rules
should be invariably invoked in cases of fake invoices detected during
investigations. In the said affidavit, relevant note-sheets have been
annexed wherefrom it is seen that Principal Additional Director General
had noted on 08.07.2020 that in the light of the apparent findings of
fraudulent availment of IGST refund, it was deemed necessary to attach
the bank accounts of the concerned person Mr. S. P. Mandavia to protect
government revenue as per section 83 of the CGST Act. It has been
clarified that the post of Principal Additional Director General is
equivalent to the post of Principal Commissioner and he granted
approval to the action under section 83 . Thereafter the order was issued
on 08.07.2020 in the prescribed format i.e., Form GST DRC-22.
Reference has been made to sections 67 and 74 of the CGST Act
whereafter it is contended that the investigation carried out in respect of
the petitioner falls within the ambit of pendency of any proceedings
under sections 67 and 74 which is an essential pre-requisite for
invocation of section 83 of the CGST Act. 12. While Dr. Kantawala submits that attachment of the bank
accounts of the petitioner and his family members is wholly unjustified
and illegal being beyond the purview of section 83 of the CGST Act
causing immense hardship to the petitioner and his family members, Mr.
Jetly, learned senior counsel for the respondents on the other hand
submits that attachment of bank accounts is provisional only and the said
power is available to the authorities which has been exercised in a
bonafide manner to protect the interest of government revenue. He has
referred to rule 159 of the CGST Rules and submits that petitioner has
got an adequate and efficacious alternative remedy against such
provisional attachment which he has not availed. WPL2901_20.doc 13. Dr. Kantawala has produced before the Court a number of
decisions in support of his contention that such a harsh and drastic
measure like attachment of bank account should ordinarily not be
resorted to and if at all the same is required to be done, the due
procedure has to be followed. Asserting that due procedure has not been
followed, he submits that in the present case there was no necessity to
resort to attachment of bank accounts when petitioner had deposited
Rs.30,00,000.00 with respondent No.4 in the month of January, 2020. 14. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have been
considered. 15. Section 83 of the CGST Act deals with provisional attachment to
protect revenue in certain cases. Section 83 reads as under:- 16. We had done some analysis of this provision in our order dated
08.10.2020. To enable invocation of section 83 , first and foremost there
must be pendency of any proceeding either under section 62 or under section 63 or under section 64 or under section 67 or under section 73 or
under section 74 of the CGST Act. Thereafter, the Commissioner must
form an opinion that for the purpose of protecting the interest of the
government revenue, it is necessary to attach any property provisionally,
including bank account belonging to the taxable person. On satisfaction
of the above two conditions, the Commissioner must pass an order in 10/18 WPL2901_20.doc

writing provisionally attaching any property of the taxable person
including bank accounts. Because of the very nature of temporary
attachment, sub-section (2) makes it abundantly clear that such
provisional attachment shall not be in excess of one year from the date
of the order made under sub-section (1) and shall cease to have effect
after the expiry of one year from the date of the order. 17. Rule 159 of the CGST Rules deals with provisional attachment of
the property as envisaged in section 83 of the CGST Act. Rule 159 is
extracted hereunder:- 17.1. As per sub-rule (1), when the Commissioner decides to attach any
property including bank account in terms of section 83 , he shall pass an
order in Form GST DRC-22 mentioning therein the details of property
which is attached. Sub-rule (5) says that any person whose property is
attached may, within 7 days of attachment, file an objection to such
provisional attachment and if such objection is filed, Commissioner may
release the said property after affording an opportunity of being heard to
the person filing the objection. As per sub-rule (6), the Commissioner
may, upon satisfaction that the property was or is no longer liable for
attachment, release such property. 17.2. In so far sub-rule (6) is concerned, the same is in consonance with
the provisional nature of attachment. Under section 83 and rule 159 we
are dealing with provisional attachment of property, including bank
account. Therefore, by its very nature such attachment is temporary as
opposed to permanent. Dictionary meaning of provisional is 'arranged or
existing for the present, possibly to be changed later'; Black's Law
Dictionary, 8th Edition has defined it as 'temporary or conditional'.
Being provisional such attachment is required to be reviewed
periodically by the Commissioner. Such suo-motu review is implicit in
rule 6 which empowers the Commissioner to release the property
provisionally attached before the outer limit of one year if he is satisfied
that such attachment of property is no longer required. 17.3 In so far sub-rule (5) is concerned, it goes without saying that pre-
assessment attachment of property, including bank account, even if
provisional, is a drastic measure. Its sole purpose is to protect the
interest of government revenue. It cannot be used as a punitive measure.
It is a serious invasion into the private domain of a tax payer. Therefore,
to ensure that the said power is exercised after due consideration and in a
reasonable manner as well as to provide an opportunity to the tax payer 12/18 WPL2901_20.doc

to satisfy the Commissioner that such attachment is unnecessary and
therefore should be lifted, provision for objection, hearing and release is
provided in sub-rule (5). 18. The format of passing the order contemplated under section 83 read with sub-rule (1) of rule 159 is provided in Form GST DRC-22
which is in the form of an intimation to the bank / post office / financial
institution / immovable property registering authority. 19. From a careful analysis of the above provisions what is to be
noted is that the property including the bank account liable to or which
has been provisionally attached must belong to the taxable person.
'Taxable person' has been defined in section 2(107) of the CGST Act to
mean a person who is registered or is liable to be registered under sections 22 or 24 of the CGST Act . 20. Respondent Nos.5 to 7 have explained in their affidavits that the
investigation carried out against the petitioner falls within the ambit of sections 67 and 74 of the CGST Act and on satisfaction of the concerned
authority provisional attachment orders were issued in the prescribed
format. 21. Contention of the petitioner that there was violation of the
provisions of section 83 of the CGST Act and no due process was
followed while provisionally attaching the bank accounts and the
rebuttal contentions of the respondents that there has been due
compliance to the statutory requirement of section 83 read with rule 159
may require a detailed examination. However, for the moment we may
consider attachment of the bank accounts from the perspective of the
taxable person i.e., the petitioner Mr. Siddarth Mandavia and his
proprietorship firm M/s. XS Components. From the list of bank accounts
mentioned in paragraph 8.8, it is seen that the bank accounts at Sr.
Nos.3, 5 and 12 are in the joint names of Ms. Mansi Mandavia and Mr. 13/18 WPL2901_20.doc

Siddharth P. Mandavia whereas the bank account at Sr. No.10 is solely in
the name of Ms. Mansi Siddharth Mandavia. It has been clarified that
Mansi Mandavia and Mansi Siddharth Mandavia is one and the same
person and is the wife of the petitioner. On the other hand we find that
the bank accounts at Sr. Nos.6 and 11 are in the joint names of the
petitioner and Hriaan Siddharth Mandavia (minor) who is stated to be
the son of the petitioner. Prima facie, Mansi Mandavia alias Mansi
Siddharth Mandavia and Hriaan Siddharth Mandavia (minor) are not the
concerned tax payers in this case. There are no allegations against them.
To be more specific, there is no allegation or any averment made by the
respondents that any money belonging to the petitioner or to his firm
have been credited into the joint accounts of the petitioner with his wife
or with his minor son or into the account of his wife. As a matter of fact,
in paragraph 38 of their first affidavit, respondent Nos.5 to 7 have stated
that the reason for attachment of other bank accounts appears to be their
link with the petitioner or his PAN. They being not the tax payers in this
case, provisional attachment of their bank accounts therefore would not
be justified. 21.1. In so far the other bank accounts are concerned, considering the
seriousness of the measure and having regard to the provisions contained
in sub-rule (5) of rule 159, we are of the view that liberty may be
granted to the petitioner even at this stage to file objection to the
provisional attachment and if such an objection is filed, the competent
authority may take an appropriate decision thereon after providing an
opportunity of hearing to the petitioner. 22. At this stage, we may usefully refer to the observations of the
Gujarat High Court in the case of Patran Steel Rolling Mill Vs. Assistant
Commissioner of State Tax , 2019 (20) GSTL 732 wherein it was
emphasized that while exercising powers under section 83 of the CGST
Act, authorities should try to balance the interest of the government
revenue on the one hand and the interest of the dealer on the other hand. WPL2901_20.doc

Authorities should ensure that the dealer is left in a position where he
can continue with his business because it is only if the dealer continues
with the business that he would be in a position to generate revenue and
pay the taxes. Bringing the business of a dealer to a halt does not in any
manner serve the interest of the revenue. 23. In so far blockage of importer exporter code of the petitioner is
concerned, we find that the relevant statute in this connection is the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 . Section 7 thereof makes it abundantly clear that importer exporter code number is
granted by the Director General of Foreign Trade who is appointed by
the central government or by an officer authorized by the Director
General of Foreign Trade. No person can make any import or export
without an importer exporter code number so granted. 23.1. Suspension and cancellation of importer exporter code number is
provided in section 8 of the Foreign Trade (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1992. For ready reference, section 8 is extracted
hereunder:- 23.2. From a careful reading of sub-section (1) of section 8 it is seen
that when there is contravention of the provisions of the Foreign Trade
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 or the rules or orders made
thereunder, or breach of the foreign trade policy or if the Director
General of Foreign Trade or his authorized officer has reason to believe
that any person has made an export or import in a manner which is
prejudicial to the trade relations of India with any foreign country etc.,
the Director General or the authorized officer after calling for the record
and after giving a notice in writing to the person concerned informing
him of the grounds on which his importer exporter code number is
sought to be suspended or cancelled and after giving him reasonable
opportunity of making a representation in writing and a personal
hearing, if sought for, either suspend or cancel the importer exporter
code number granted to that person. If it is a case of suspension then the
period has to be specified in the order of suspension. Once the importer-
exporter code number is suspended or cancelled, that person would not
be entitled to carry out any import or export except under a special
licence that may be granted by the Director General. WPL2901_20.doc 24. It is trite that when a law requires a thing to be done in a
particular manner, it has to be done in that particular manner and
recourse to any other manner is necessarily forbidden. Suspension and
cancellation of importer exporter code number can be done only under Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 by the Director
General of Foreign Trade or by his authorized officer for the reasons
specified and in the manner provided in section 8 of the said Act.
Respondents arrayed in this petition are neither the Director General of
Foreign Trade nor his authorized officer. Prima facie, they are not
empowered either to suspend or cancel the importer exporter code of the
petitioner, the only two measures provided under law. There is no
provision for blocking of importer exporter code, that too by an
authority which is not competent either to suspend or cancel such code.
It is interesting to note that on the allegation of blocking of importer
exporter code of the petitioner by respondent No.3 made in paragraph 11
and ground No.S of the writ petition, respondents in paragraph 32 of
their first affidavit have offered no comment, so also in paragraph 64. If
that be the position, blocking of importer exporter code of the petitioner
by any authority other than the Director General of Foreign Trade or by
his authorized officer under section 8 of the Foreign Trade
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 would be unauthorized,
unwarranted and without jurisdiction. 25. That being the position, we feel that the following directions may
meet the ends of justice. Accordingly, as an interim measure, we pass the
following orders:- 26. This order will be digitally signed by the Private Secretary of this
Court. All concerned will act on production by fax or email of a digitally
signed copy of this order.