India called for global anti-terrorism treaties to be applied to the cyber domain at the UN Security Council meeting addressing evolving threats in cyberspace in New York. The meeting called for an open debate under the agenda item “Maintenance of International Peace and Security” on 20 th June 2024.

Among the statements given by representatives of countries, India stated “Current international law is not well positioned to support responses to cyberattacks.” The representative for India claimed that India has been “a victim of terrorism for several decades and thus is cognizant of the serious nature of the cyberterrorism.”

It called for cyber threats such as attacks against critical infrastructure, information and financial systems, and government networks to be classified as terror attacks, stating that these threats in cyberspace have “the potential not only to jeopardize national security but also to undermine the very fabric of global stability and cooperation.” According to India, terrorists have found new methods in cyberspace to perpetrate violence and radicalize youth recruitment and training. It also alleged that terrorists have found funding methods in the form of virtual assets and cryptocurrency.

Noting the common occurrence of cryptocurrency, heist, data hijacking, deep fakes, misinformation, and incitements including the potential of artificial intelligence to add scope and scale to cyber attacks. The representative stated, that the integrity and security of ICT products which form the building blocks of cyberspace, are being compromised. “Such nefarious acts undermine trust and confidence in global ICT supply chains, compromise security, and create potential flashpoints between states,” he said. Further, the representative claimed that these acts are committed by state-sponsored and non-state actors, as well as transnational crime networks. Thus, India called for global cooperation in “harmonizing cybersecurity benchmarks, best practices, and regulations” and called for a multi-stakeholder collaboration essential to be informed of and understand the emerging threats in cyberspace.

UN Secretary-General António Guterres noted that the ‘Summit of the Future’ scheduled in September, and the Pact that will emerge from the Summit represents a pivotal chance to support the maintenance of international peace and security in cyberspace. He said, “Chapter 2 of the Pact aims to re-affirm global consensus on safeguarding critical infrastructure against harmful information and communications technology (ICT) practices, and creating enhanced accountability for data-driven technology, including artificial intelligence.”Additionally, a High-Level Advisory Body on Artificial Intelligence is completing its final report on best practices for governing artificial intelligence for humanity, while addressing its risks and uncertainties, he said.

Further, the “New Agenda for Peace” released in 2023 calls for focused efforts by States to prevent the extension and escalation of conflicts both within and through cyberspace.  Guterres added, “The rule of law must exist in the digital sphere as it does in the physical world.”

Guterres also briefly mentioned the UN Cyber Crime Treaty that has been in discussion by the United Nations (UN) Ad-Hoc Committee to create an international convention on tackling cybercrime. The treaty proposed by the UN can be the first of its kind to tackle countries’ growing concerns about international cybercrime.

India has been one of the many countries active in the discussion of the treaty. Notably, in the Committee’s last session, India proposed using a ‘24×7 global communication network’ to tackle the common cybercrime known as phishing wherein bad actors extract sensitive information from victims by sharing fraudulent links. India proposed using the 24/7 communication channel for “swiftly rendering phishing links inaccessible and identifying the abused IT resources and the malicious actor.” They proposed facilitating information exchange between Law Enforcement Agencies, globally.

Calling the communication network a more ‘practical mechanism’ for combating phishing India explained the functioning stating- that law enforcement agencies could identify and block a phishing link and use the communication network to promptly inform the requested state about vulnerable IT resources and malicious actors. States can then “take appropriate action in accordance with domestic law.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event