1. Vide this judgment, I shall dispose of the present case

registered on the complaint of Muskan Container Pvt. Ltd.

(hereinafter referred to as "the complainant"), under Section 138 Negotiable Instruments Act (hereinafter referred to as ' NI Act ')

against M/S All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred

to as "the accused no.1") and Mr. Kunal Ravindra Umarnai,

Director/Authorised signatory, of Accused no.1 (hereinafter referred

to as "the accused no.2") (collectively referred to as "the Accused

persons" hereinafter) alleging that accused no.2, acting for Accused

no.1, issued a cheque numbered no. 143336 dated 25.10.2019 for a

sum of Rs. 5.00,000/- drawn on IndusInd Bank, to the complainant,

and which, upon presentation, was dishonoured on the ground

"Payment stopped by drawer" and that the accused persons did not

pay the aforesaid amount despite having been served a legal notice

of demand by the complainant. FACTS OF THE CASE 2. It is the case of the complainant that the complainant, Muskan

Container Lines Pvt. Ltd., registered under the Companies Act,

1956 , operates from multiple offices across India and abroad,

maintaining various port accounts. Mr. Rahul Prajapati, Accounts 2 / 34 Digitally signed CC NI Act 44830/2019 by ARVIND
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ARVIND TOMAR
 TOMAR Date: 3. Prima facie case was found to be made out against the

accused persons, cognizance of offence punishable u/s 138 of the NI

Act was taken and they were summoned. Upon entering appearance,

the substance of accusation was served to the accused persons

through accused no.2 on 23.12.2022 wherein he pleaded not guilty

but admitted issuing the cheque. He admitted that the cheque bears

his signatures and that the amount was filled by him. He denied

filling other particulars. The accused admitted the receipt of demand

notice. He further stated that he is a custom broker and a

consignment was sent to dubai by his client M/S Siddhi Vinayak

and was delivered without original delivery order and consignee did

not make the payment to the consignor so consignor stopped the

container in dubai port as she observed documentational lapse and

intentional fraud. To recover these charges the complainant in India

held his other customer's import shipment and tried to pressurise

him for the payment which was not his liability. For safety of his

importer and business he issued the cheque as the complainant was

not releasing the consignment and immediately stopped payment for

the same. M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. Page no. 5 / 34 COMPLAINANT EVIDENCE 4. The case was proceeded with and in support of the allegations

made in the complaint, the complainant, adopted his pre-summoning

evidence by way of affidavit Ex. CW1/A and relied upon the

documents already exhibited at the time of pre-summoning evidence

as follows: 5. Thereafter, statement u/s. 313 Cr.P.C. of the accused no.2 was

recorded on behalf of the accused persons in which he stated that

there was no liability to pay the complainant and that the cheque

was forcefully collected by holding their other customer's shipment.

As there was no liability, the company stopped payment. He stated

that the company was already in communication through email with

the complainant before the legal notice was received. He further

stated that it was a complete mistake of the complainant company as

containers under subject shipment were released to consignee

without original delivery order by the complainant and containers

were evacuated from port without submission of original documents

due to which their client M/S Shree Siddhi Vinayak Company faced

a huge loss and balance 3 containers were put on hold by them to

investigate and that they have filed complaint in UAE for the same.

It also came to their knowledge that the balance of 3 containers were

auctioned and charges were recovered by the complainant. Digitally signed by ARVIND CC NI Act 44830/2019 ARVIND TOMAR
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. 6. The accused no.2 thereafter examined himself as DW-1. Ld.

predecessor had permitted the accused to file an affidavit in lieu of

examination in chief (Ex. AW-A) wherein he stated that M/s All

Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ("Accused No. 1") is a Custom

House Agent that arranged an export of eight containers of rice to

Jebel Ali port in Dubai for its client, M/s Shree Siddhivinayak

Import And Export Company. The booking was made on

09/08/2019 through the Complainant shipping agent. Accused No. 1

completed all customs formalities, and the shipment was loaded and

documented under Shipping Bill No. 6232097 dated 13/08/2019. 7. On 24/08/2019, Accused No. 1's client reported that five

containers were released by an unauthorised party without payment,

allegedly due to the Complainant's negligence in releasing the

containers without the original delivery order. Dubai authorities

confirmed that the containers were released based on fake

documents. The Complainant placed a hold on further container

releases at the request of Accused No. 1's client, resulting in ground

rent charges at the port. Accused No. 1 contended these charges

were not its responsibility but due to the Complainant's error. 8 / 34 Digitally signed
 by ARVIND CC NI Act 44830/2019 M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ARVIND TOMAR
 Date: 8. Despite this, the Complainant demanded payment of the

ground rent and allegedly withheld other consignments booked by

Accused No. 1, which led to the loss of Accused No. 1's client, M/s

Hinjawadi Infra Development Pvt. Ltd. Under pressure, Accused

No. 1 issued a cheque of ₹5,00,000, though it maintains there was

no legal obligation for payment. 9. Accused persons have relied on the following documents (as

referenced in the affidavit filed) to support their case: 10. Lastly, Accused no.2 stated that the Complainant's actions are

a result of malafide intentions to recover costs improperly, has filed

the present complaint for payment that he contends is baseless, after

which the defence evidence was closed and the case was put for

final argument. FINAL ARGUMENTS 11. During the final arguments, the Ld. Counsel for the complainant

argued that all essentials of the offence as enumerated in Ch. 17 of

the NI act are made out beyond reasonable doubt against the

accused and prayed that the accused be convicted, sentenced as per

law. 12. Per contra, ld. Counsel for the accused has argued that there

existed no legally enforceable debt/liability of the accused towards

the complainant and that the complainant had pressured the accused

to make payment as a condition to release the import shipment of

the accused's customer. It was for the safety of his importer and

business that the accused had issued the cheques as the complainant

was not releasing the consignment. Ld. counsel also highlighted the

infirmities in the testimony of the complainant and prayed that the

 Digitally
 10 / 34 signed by
 ARVIND CC NI Act 44830/2019 ARVIND TOMAR
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. TOMAR Date: POINT OF CONSIDERATION 13. In the present matter, the court is called upon to consider: ARVIND TOMAR Date: TOMAR 2024.11.28
 16:40:07
 +0600 CC NI Act 44830/2019 M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. Page no. 11 / 34 14. For the sake of clarity, it is imperative to discuss the legal

standards required to be met by both sides and analyse the facts of

the present case in their light. S. 138 of the NI acts reads as follows,

 "Where any cheque drawn by a person on an account maintained
 by him with a banker for payment of any amount of money to
 another person from out of that account for the discharge, in whole
 or in part, of any debt or other liability, is returned by the bank
 unpaid, either because of the amount of money standing to the
 credit of that account is insufficient to honour the cheque or that it
 exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an
 agreement made with that bank, such person shall be deemed to
 have committed an offence and shall without prejudice to any other
 provisions of this Act, be punished with imprisonment for a term
 which may extend to two year, or with fine which may extend to
 twice the amount of the cheque, or with both: Explanation: For the purpose of this section, "debt or other
 liability" means a legally enforceable debt or other liability. In order to establish the offence punishable under Section 138 of NI Act, the complainant must fulfil all the essential ingredients of

the offence, as discussed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in

 12 / 34 Digitally signed CC NI Act 44830/2019 ARVIND by ARVIND
 TOMAR
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. TOMAR Date: 2024.11.28
 16:40:12 +0600 Krishna Janardhan Bhat v. Dattatreya Hegde AIR 2008 SC 1325.

Perusal of the facts of the case in light of the bare provision and the

Krishna Janardhan Bhat judgment, reveal the following necessary

ingredients of the offence. 15. First Ingredient: The cheque was drawn by the accused on an

account maintained by him for payment of money to the drawer and

the same is presented for payment within a period of 3 months from

the date on which it is drawn or within the period of its validity; 15.1 With respect to this ingredient, the complainant has, in his

complaint as well as his affidavit, alleged that the cheque in

controversy was issued to him by the accused no.2 on behalf of

accused no.1 on an account maintained by the accused no.1 at their

bank. To prove the allegation, the complainant relied on the

statements of the accused no.2, one recorded at the stage of issuing

notice u/s 251 CrPC and u/s 313 CrPC where he has admitted his

signatures, filling in the amount and issuing the cheque in question. 15.2 However, the accused, in his statements mentioned above,

has denied making any other entries on the cheques in question. In

this regard, a reading of S. 20 of the NI Act reveals that the

provision gives a prima facie authority to the holder of the cheque,

CC NI Act 44830/2019 Digitally signed
 by ARVIND
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ARVIND TOMAR Page no. 13 / 34 TOMAR Date: Digitally
 signed by
 ARVIND
 ARVIND TOMAR
 TOMAR Date: 16. Second Ingredient: The cheque was returned unpaid by the bank

due to insufficiency of funds in the account to honour the cheque or

that it exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account on

an agreement made with that bank or for any other reason. 16.1 S.146 of the NI act, 1881 states that " The Court shall, in

respect of every proceeding under this Chapter, on production of

bank's slip or memo having thereon the official mark denoting that

the cheque has been dishonoured, presume the fact of dishonour of

such cheque, unless and until such fact is disproved." 16.2 Analysing the facts of the case in the light of the provision,

reveals that the Return memo report Ex. CW1/9 bears the signature,

stamps of the Bank Official and the official mark denoting that the

cheque Ex. CW-1/8 has been dishonoured for "Payment stopped".

In respect to this, the defence has not led any evidence, oral or

documentary, to rebut the presumption raised by virtue of the

provision qua the return memo reports, nor has questioned the

genuineness or validity thereof. The accused no. 2 has gone on to

admit that the cheque was issued and the stopping of payment was

directed at his instance in his statements u/s 251 , 313 Cr.PC.

Therefore, by virtue of the provision, the court draws the

presumption that the cheques in question were dishonoured for CC NI Act 44830/2019 M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. Digitally
 Page no. 15 / 34 signed by
 ARVIND
 ARVIND TOMAR
 TOMAR Date: 17. Third Ingredient: A demand of the said amount has been made

by the payee or holder in due course of the cheque by a notice in

writing given to the drawer within thirty days of the receipt of

information of the dishonour of cheque from the bank and the

drawer fails to make payment of the said amount of money within

fifteen days from the date of receipt of notice. 17.1 The demand notice Ex. CW-1/10 Dated: 20.11.2019 is

purported to have been sent on 20.11.2019 to the accused persons.

The notice had been sent within a period of 30 days from the date of

issuance of return memo reports Ex. CW-1/9. The complainant has

filed Postal receipts and tracking reports (Ex. C1/11-18), that shows

delivery of the legal notice to the accused persons. The receipt of the

legal notice has been admitted by the accused persons in statements

recorded under S. 251 and 313 CrPC. The accused no.2 in his

statement u/s 294 CrPC has not questioned the validity of the

documents. In this light, the documents (Ex. C1/11-18) tendered by 16 / 34 Digitally signed by ARVIND CC NI Act 44830/2019 M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ARVIND TOMAR
 Date: the complainant to prove delivery/service of legal notice upon the

accused persons do not require formal proof. Further, since the

cheque was dishonoured for "Stop Payment" and the argument on

behalf of the accused persons is that they don't owe any money to

the complainant, it is safe to conclude that payment was not made

within 15 days from the receipt of legal notice sent by the

complainant. Thus, this ingredient also stands proved against the

accused persons. 18. Fourth Ingredient: The cheque was issued by the accused in

complete or partial discharge of a legally enforceable debt or other

liability towards the complainant. 18.1 As the prosecution has successfully been able to establish

the existence of the aforementioned first three ingredients beyond

reasonable doubt, particularly, the signature of the accused on the

cheque, as a result of this, the presumption under S. 118 and 139 ,

with regard to existence of a legally enforceable debt or liability

comes into play. M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. Page no. 17 / 34 S. 118 : Presumptions as to negotiable instruments--Until the
 contrary is proved, the following presumptions shall be made: The offence under Section 138 of the NI Act is at best a
 regulatory offence and largely falls in the arena of a civil
 wrong and therefore the test of proportionality ought to guide
 the interpretation of the reverse onus clause. An accused may
 not be expected to discharge an unduly high standard of
 proof. A reverse onus clause requires the accused to raise a
 probable defence or create doubt about the existence of a
 legally enforceable debt or liability for thwarting the
 prosecution. The standard of proof for doing so would
 necessarily be on the basis of "preponderance of
 probabilities" and not "beyond shadow of any doubt"."

The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dayabhai Chhaganbhai Thakkar
vs State of Gujarat (1964) 7 SCR 361, held that: In Parminder Kaur @ P.P. Kaur @ Soni vs State of Punjab [CrA
283 of 2011], the apex court has held that

 18 / 34 Digitally signed
 by ARVIND
CC NI Act 44830/2019 ARVIND TOMAR
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. TOMAR Date: Thus, in a nutshell, the law regarding the presumption for

the offence under Section 138 N.I. Act is that rebuttable

presumptions under Sections 118(a) and 139 of the act have to

be compulsorily raised as soon as execution of cheque by

accused is admitted or proved by the complainant and thereafter

burden is shifted upon the accused to prove otherwise.

Therefore, here the onus shifts upon the accused to prove the

nonexistence of debt or other liability. As the law and legal

precedent establish, it is the accused persons' responsibility to

rebut the presumptions against them, which they can do by

cross-examining the complainant, presenting defence evidence

and weakening the complainant's case. The accused persons do

not need to prove their case beyond a reasonable doubt; they CC NI Act 44830/2019 M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. Digitally
 signed by
 Page no. 19 / 34 ARVIND
 ARVIND TOMAR
 TOMAR Date: Later when the evidence led by the complainant was put to him

and he was asked to explain the circumstances u/s 313 Cr.P.C, in

his answer to Q.5, the accused no. 2 alleged mistake on the part

of the complainant in releasing the 5 of the 8 containers. He

further stated that a complaint was filed in UAE qua the incident.

 18.5 To substantiate his defence, the Accused no. 2 has stated

in his affidavit in para 5, para 7 and para 8 that the first 5 of the 8

containers were delivered to the buyer from the port by the

complainant without submission of original delivery order, by

using fake documents and due to the carelessness of the

complainant. He has alleged errors on the part of the

complainant in all his statements. However, Ex. CW1/5 & EX.

CW1/6, which are letters sent by Accused no. 1 & Sri Siddhi

Vinayak, addressed to the complainant requesting him to hold

delivery, don't mention anything about fault of the complainant
CC NI Act 44830/2019 Digitally
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. signed by
 Page no. 21 / 34 ARVIND
 ARVIND TOMAR
 TOMAR Date: Complainant opposes this contention and relies on Ex. CW1/5,6

where the accused company has requested the complainant to

withhold delivery of remaining consignments, which admits

sending it in his cross examination. The complainant also places

reliance on the email dated 23.10.2019, tendered in evidence by

the accused no.2 himself, as Ex. AW1/4, sent by him to the

complainant where it is stated that "We informed Mr. Vivek and

his team to hold the containers as the consignee did not make the

payment". Thus, it is sufficiently proved that the accused 24 / 34 Digitally signed CC NI Act 44830/2019 by ARVIND
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ARVIND TOMAR
 Date: persons communicated with the complainant and requested the

consignment be put on hold by the complainant company at

Dubai due to payment irregularities. 18.8. The next issue arises with respect to liability towards

the charges incurred by reason of hold on consignment at the

Dubai port. The hold led to additional storage charges for which

the complainant is seeking reimbursement from the accused

persons. The complainant has again placed reliance on email

dated 23.10.2019 (Ex. AW-1/4) from the accused no.2 in which

it was stated by the accused no.2 that "We assure you the port

charges payment and we will also take care that you do not

suffer any loss due to this." implying that storage charges fall

under the accused person's commitment. The complainant has

also pointed out the statement of the accused no.2 in his cross

examination where he admitted sending the email to the

complainant and admitted its contents. To contest this, the

defence has relied on the statement of the complainant where he

testified in cross examination that typically, storage charges are

paid by the shipper (here, the complainant) to the port

authorities. As it is conclusively established that the hold was

placed at the request of the accused persons and not at the
CC NI Act 44830/2019 Digitally signed
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. by ARVIND Page no. 25 / 34 ARVIND TOMAR
 Date: complainant's own whim, it would be incorrect to burden the

complainant with the resulting charges. Therefore, his claim for

reimbursement is both reasonable and justified. 18.9 The accused persons further contest the liability to pay,

on the ground that they are a mere custom broker house acting as

an agent of the original consignor Shree Siddhi Vinayak Export

and Import Pvt. Ltd. and if any liability to pay to the

complainant exists, it would be of the original consignor and not

the accused persons. They seek support from the statement of the

complainant witness CW-1 during his cross examination where

he admitted it to be correct that the accused no.1 was merely an

agent of Shree Siddhi Vinayak Export and Import Co. and the

goods also belonged to them. This contention has been opposed

by the complainant on the ground that the complainant never

dealt with Shree Siddhi Vinayak Export and Import Co. directly

but only through the accused persons. Assurance to ensure no

loss was also given by the accused persons. Under agency law,

an agent acts on behalf of a principal and typically binds the

principal in transactions within the scope of their authority.

Here, the accused introduced the Shree Siddhi Vinayak Export

and Import Co. to the complainant, facilitating the transaction. 26 / 34 Digitally signed CC NI Act 44830/2019 by ARVIND
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ARVIND TOMAR
 Date: While the accused served as an intermediary, it was not merely a

passive agent but an active party that instructed the complainant

to hold the consignment, thereby causing the storage charges to

accrue. Generally, an agent is not personally liable for acts done

on behalf of a principal unless: The principal is undisclosed, the

agent exceeds its authority or there is a written assurance or

contract with the agent accepting liability. However in this case,

the accused's email to the complainant, stating it would "assure

port payment charges and take care that you will not suffer any

loss due to this", coupled with its issuance of a signed cheque,

which the complainant states were to cover the disputed storage

charges, suggests that the accused assumed a direct liability

towards the complainant, overriding the standard principal-agent

limitations. The accused no.2 in his cross examination has

admitted to sending the email ex. AW-1/4 and the

aforementioned statement from A to B in the email. Even if the

principal-agent relationship typically shields agents from

liability, the accused's express undertaking to cover storage

costs, confirmed through the issuance of the signed cheque in

question, creates an enforceable liability towards the

complainant. Digitally
 signed by
 ARVIND CC NI Act 44830/2019 M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. alleged liability. Ld. Counsel on behalf of the accused persons has

submitted that the complainant has no where specified the amount it

has allegedly incurred as storage charges to suggest that this cheque

was paid in lieu thereof. To cast a shadow of doubt on the case of

the complainant, he has relied on the statement given by the

complainant during his cross examination where he has stated " the

total cost of the detention would be Rs. 50 to 60 lacs. This cost

includes storage charges, detention charges, port charges, freight

charges, CHA, item dispose charges. We have not raised any

invoice of Rs. 50 to 60 against the accused." The complainant in his

cross examination recorded on 18.07.2023 has voluntarily stated that

the cheque was given as a part payment for advance payment as the

total loss was not calculated at that time". In this regard it is held

that as per S. 138 of the NI act, cheque may be issued for the

discharge of whole or part of the liability to pay. It is not mandatory

to issue the cheque for discharge of entire liability to attract the

provisions of Ch. 17 of the NI act. Further, it is worth noting that the

amount therein was filled by the accused no.2 himself. He has

admitted to it in his response to Q. 5 of Notice stated to him u/s 251 Cr.P.C. Apart from this, the defence has also highlighted that no
 28 / 34 Digitally signed
 by ARVIND CC NI Act 44830/2019 M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ARVIND TOMAR
 Date: invoice has been generated by the complainant regarding these

charges it alleges against the accused persons. To this, the response

of the complainant has consistently been that invoice cannot be

generated till the accounts are settled and since the payment has not

yet been made to settle the account, the invoice cannot be issued or

generated, as can be referred from his statement during cross

examination recorded on 23.12.2022. 18.11 The accused persons have also taken the defence that the

complainant has extorted the cheques in question and the accused

persons had never issued it to them. The version of facts which the

defence suggests through its statement u/s 251 CrPC and affidavit of

evidence Para 9 and 11, is that the due to the dispute over holding of

containers, the complainant sought expenses incurred by way of

holding from the accused wrongfully, and when the liability to pay

such charge was denied, the complainant withheld another import

shipment of a different customer of the accused persons namely,

Hinjawadi Infra development Pvt. Ltd. so as to compel/pressurise

the accused persons to issue cheques for a payment which was not

their liability. The allegation has also been made by the accused

persons in the email dated 31.10.2019 exhibited as Ex. AW-1/4. In

para 11 of the affidavit, the accused no.2 has stated that he has CC NI Act 44830/2019 M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. Digitally
 signed by
 Page no. 29 / 34 ARVIND
 ARVIND TOMAR
 TOMAR Date: In Sampelly case also, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India

had distinguished between a cheque issued for a debt that had

already accrued (existing liability) and one issued for a debt or

obligation that would arise in the future (security) and held that

liability under S. 138 arises only in cases where the liability is

existing. The Ld. Counsel for the accused, during the final

arguments submitted that the cheque in question was a security

CC NI Act 44830/2019 Digitally
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. signed by
 Page no. 31 / 34 ARVIND
 ARVIND TOMAR
 TOMAR Date: 19. Lastly, u/s 141(1) of the NI act, when an offense u/s 138 is

committed by a company, every person who, at the time of

the offense, was in charge of and responsible for the company's

business is deemed guilty, unless they prove the offense occurred

without their knowledge or despite due diligence. In the instant case,

the complainant has tendered the Company Master Data from the

Ministry of Corporate Affairs in evidence as Ex. CW-1/2,

unequivocally identifying accused no. 2 as a director of accused no.

1 and the correctness of its contents has not been disputed by the

defence. Admittedly, accused no. 2 is also the signatory of the

dishonored cheque, and as already established, all communications

with the complainant regarding the transaction were conducted by

accused no. 2 on behalf of the company. These incontrovertible facts

establish a clear nexus between accused no. 2 and the affairs of

accused no. 1, demonstrating that the former was in charge of and

responsible for the conduct of the latter's business. Accordingly, in

light of the plain language of Section 141(1) , the documentary
 Digitally
CC NI Act 44830/2019 signed by
M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd. ARVIND
 Page no. 33 / 34 ARVIND TOMAR
 TOMAR Date: 2 alongside accused no. 1 is warranted under the law.

CONCLUSION 20. In the light of the foregoing discussion, M/S All Bound Global

Freight Pvt. Ltd. (accused no.1) and Mr. Kunal Ravindra Umarnai,

Director/Authorised signatory of accused no.1 (accused no.2), are

convicted of the offence punishable under section 138 of the

Negotiable Instruments Act 1881. 21. Let the accused be heard on the point of sentence separately. 22. Let copy of this judgment be given to convict free of cost. Digitally signed by ARVIND M/s Muskan Containers Line Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s All Bound Global Freight Pvt. Ltd.