SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: PSA: How not to get scammed
DATE: 2024-04-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1c2szp2/psa_how_not_to_get_scammed/

--- POST TEXT ---

I lurk on quite a few subs related to India (like indiainvestments, legaladviceindia etc.) and these days I see a lot of posts where people are seeking advice on how to recover money lost to scams/frauds.

An interesting observation I made is that all these scam operations have a common modus operandi. And somehow, this specific system of scamming seem to work on people from all kinds of strata. Be it rich or poor, intellingent or stupid. 

Somehow in comments section of such threads, I see people commenting how stupid those victims are to fall for such scams, but I will argue that it's got nothing to do with a person's intelligence. Maybe, to some extent, but not entirely.

Now coming to the common modus operandi, I was talking about. The entire operation of most of these scams runs on fundamentally one thing. **Exploitation of the victim's greed**.

I think we can all agree that human beings, in general, are quite careful about their monetory wealth. And it's especially more pronounced in a developing nation like India, where your position in the socio-economic strata can significantly impact your life.

So the only way to successfully scam such a financially-sensitive demographic is through the exploitation of their desire to earn more money. So, instead of using a stick to extract money, like false threats (scams like these exist, although uncommon, for example, scammer calling as a police officer and saying that the victims' relative has been arrested and they need to pay immediately for release), most scammers use carrot method. Their basic premise is that the victim will get very high return on investment (classic multiply your money scam), or will get very high part time salary (classic 150 rs for small tasks scam), or will get owed money (classic army officer scam), or have won lottery (classic WhatsApp kbc scam). Somehow, all of these premises successfully cloud the victim's logical mind (that there's no simple shortcut to get rich) and make them fall right into the scam on the context of getting more money. 

So, while the commonly advertised mechanisms to not get scammed like never providing OTP to others or not entering UPI pin for receiving money protects one from get exploited technically, the most sure shot way to not get scammed by any mechanism whatsoever is by realising that nobody gives away free money just like that. The only way to make money is by find and work the money making process by yourself, nobody is going to come to one and offer you some golden goose.

In simple, don't be greedy and you'll never be get scammed.