This is an application for anticipatory bail. 2. The petitioner is the 3rd accused in Crime No.1379 of 2021

of Punnapra Police Station, Alappuzha District, which has been

registered alleging commission of offences under Sections 406, 419,

420 and 465 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The

allegation against the petitioner and the other accused is that the 1st

accused misused the Aadhaar Card of the de-facto complainant for

obtaining a SIM card and handed over the said SIM card to the 2 nd

accused in the case, who in turn handed it over to the petitioner and

the petitioner had handed it over to one of the accused in Crime

No.897 of 2021 registered at the Alappuzha South Police Station. 3. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner would

submit that the petitioner is absolutely innocent in the matter. It is

submitted that even if all the allegations against the petitioner are

accepted to be true, the only allegation against the petitioner is that

he had handed over a SIM card obtained from the 2 nd accused to the

accused in another case. It is submitted that in such circumstances,

the petitioner may be granted anticipatory bail. 4. The learned Public Prosecutor vehemently opposes the
 BAIL APPL. NO. 9080 OF 2023 3 grant of bail. It is submitted that Crime No.897 of 2021 of Alappuzha

South Police Station is a case relating to the gruesome murder of a

lawyer of the Alappuzha Bar by his political opponents. It is

submitted that some of the accused in that case are yet to be

apprehend and they have absconded. It is submitted that the

allegation is that using the Aadhaar Card and other details of a third

person, certain SIM cards were obtained and this was clearly for the

purpose of using the said SIM card during commission of offences. It

is submitted that the petitioner is also accused of similar offence in

another case, where he has been granted anticipatory bail. It is

submitted that the allegations against the petitioner are serious and

therefore, the petitioner is not entitled to anticipatory bail. 5. Having heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and

the learned Public Prosecutor and considering the fact that the

allegations against the petitioner are as noticed above, I am of the

view that the petitioner can be granted anticipatory bail subject to

strict conditions. The allegations against the petitioner is that he

obtained a SIM card, which was obtained by the 1 st accused misusing

the Aadhaar Card of the de-facto complainant and thereafter, the

petitioner handed over the said SIM card to an accused in Crime

No.897 of 2021 of Alappuzha South Police Station. The allegations
 BAIL APPL. NO. 9080 OF 2023 4 against the petitioner are no doubt serious as prima facie it appears

evident that the petitioner was clearly aware that he was handing

over a SIM card to the third person knowing fully well that the same

would be used for the commission of offence. However, considering

the nature of the allegations, I am of the opinion that the custodial

interrogation of the petitioner may not be necessary. 6. Therefore, this application for anticipatory bail is allowed

and the petitioner is directed to be released on anticipatory bail in

the event of his arrest in connection with Crime No.1379 of 2021 of

Punnapra Police Station, Alappuzha District, subject to the following

conditions:- (Rupees fifty thousand only) with two solvent sureties each for

 the likesum to the satisfaction of the Arresting officer; (ii) Petitioner shall appear before the investigating officer in

 Crime No.1379 of 2021 of Punnapra Police Station, Alappuzha

 District, at 11.00 A.M on 22.11.2023 and 23.11.2023 and

 thereafter, whenever called upon to do so; (iii) The petitioner shall not attempt to contact the de-facto

 complainant or interfere with the investigation or to influence

 or intimidate any witness in Crime No.1379 of 2021 of
 BAIL APPL. NO. 9080 OF 2023 5 Punnapra Police Station, Alappuzha District; (iv) The petitioner shall not involve in any other crime while

 on bail. (v) The petitioner shall not commit similar offence in future.

 If any of the aforesaid conditions are violated, the investigating

officer in Crime No.1379 of 2021 of Punnapra Police Station,

Alappuzha District, may file an application before the jurisdictional

Court, for cancellation of bail. Sd/- GOPINATH P.
 JUDGE
DK