(PER : HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ILESH J. VORA) 1. By filing this writ application under Article 226 , the writ
 applicant seeks to challenge the notice dated 31.03.2019
 issued by the respondent under Section 148 of the Income
 Tax Act, 1961 ('the act' for short) seeking to reopen the
 applicant's income assessment for the A.Y 2012­13. 2. The brief facts leading to file the present writ application can
 be summarized as under: Agencies as well as its own information; which brought the
 big scam of money laundering to the fore. In the
 investigation, it was found that foreign remittances have been
 made by the following 12 entities from their bank accounts to
 the Dubai and Hongkong based companies on the strength of
 fake documents for the purpose of money laundering: 3. During the course of investigation, the following facts were
 unearthed: 4. In all, this money laundering scam is known as Afroze
 Mohd. Hasanfatta group scam. Several entities were traced
 related to this group on the basis funds trail, which were used
 as a conduit for channelizing funds to various concerns,
 ultimate beneficiaries of which were Hong Kong and Dubai
 based entities, to which the funds were transferred on the
 fake documents. 5. The detailed information so received from the Investigation
 Wing, Surat has been perused carefully and it is found that
 the assessee company is one of the concerns which has
 provided entry of funds to the below:mentioned entities
 operated by Shri Afroz Fatta during the F.Y. 2011­12 relevant
 to A.Y.2012­13: 6. The above information received from the investigation
 Wing has been analysed along with the case records available
 in the case of the assessee company. On perusal of assessment
 records in the case of the assessee for AY 2012­13, it is seen
 that the assessee has shown purchase of Rs.4,57,48,000/­
 from one of the above alleged concerns i.e. M/s. Agni Gems
 P. Ltd. It establishes that the allegation that the assessee has
 made transaction with the above mentioned alleged parties, is
 true. Further, it is found on the bases of fund trail provided
 by Investigation Wing, that during the year under
 consideration, the assessee company has made transactions
 with the above mentioned target entity either directly or in a
 circular manner, in other words, funds have reached to the
 above destination companies either directly or through other
 intermediary concerns. 7. During the course of the assessment proceedings, the
 assessee failed to disclose fully and truly all material facts
 related to the above companies/firms, necessary for his
 assessment for the assessment year under consideration.
 Therefore, the failure being on the part of the assessee
 company and in view of the above facts/material available on
 records and after analyzing the same, I have reason to believe
 that income of the assessee to the extent of Rs.
 10,13,00,000/­ has escaped assessment for A.Y.2012­13
 within the meaning of section 147 of the IT. Act. 8. In this case, a return of income was filed for the year under
 consideration and regular assessment u/s.143(3) of the Act
 was made on 25.03.2014. Since, 4 years from the end of the
 relevant year has expired in this case, the requirement to
 initiate proceedings u/s. 147 are reason to believe that
 income for the year under consideration has escaped
 assessment because of failure on the part of the assessee to
 disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his
 assessment for the assessment year under consideration. It is
 pertinent to mention here that reasons to believe that income
 has escaped assessment for the year under consideration have
 been recorded above (refer paragraphs 2 to 7). Though,
 during the course of assessment proceedings, the assessee
 company has disclosed the transaction with the alleged
 concern either directly or with the intermediary concerns
 through which funds were circulated, the requisite material
 facts as noted above in the reasons for reopening were
 embedded in such a manner that material evidences could
 not be discovered by AO and could have been discovered with
 due diligence, accordingly attracting provisions of
 Explanation 1 of section 147 of the Act. Further, this case is
 being analysed now on the basis of fresh material which was
 not available with the Assessing Officer at the time of
 assessment. It is evident from the above facts that the
 assessee had not truly and fully disclosed material facts
 necessary for its assessment for the year under consideration
 thereby reopening u/s. 147 of the Act. In this case more than four years have lapsed from the end of
 assessment year under consideration. Hence necessary
 sanction to issue notice u/s. 148 has been obtained separately
 from Principal Commissioner of Income Tax as per the
 provisions of section 151 of the Act. 3. In view of the judgment of Hon'ble GHC in the case of
 Sahkari Khand Udhyog Mandal Ltd., it is expected from you Page 5 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER to put your say, if any, within 60 days of receipt of this letter
 containing reasons of re­opening in your case. 4, In view of the above facts, you are requested to
 submit your say within permissible time limit as
 mentioned above for further proceedings of the case." 2.4 The writ applicant raised the objections vide its
 communication dated 04.07.2019, mainly on the following
 issues on facts and law: 2.5 The objections came to be rejected by the respondent vide
 order dated 30.08.2019. 3. Being aggrieved by the disposal of the objections against the
 notice for reopening of the assessment, the writ applicant has
 come up before this Court with the present writ application. 4. We have heard Mr. Sunit Shah, the learned Senior counsel
 assisted by Mr. Omkar C. Dave, the learned advocate
 appearing for the writ applicant and Mrs. Kalpana K. Raval,
 the learned Standing Counsel appearing for the revenue. 5. Mr. Sunit Shah, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
 writ applicant raised the following contentions: In this context, the learned counsel submitted that the notice
 under Section 142(1) was issued by the Assessing Officer to Page 8 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER call for certain particulars like details of bank, sales and
 purchase, stock etc. In response to the notice, the assessee
 had furnished the names of the persons from whom the
 purchases and sales were made including the transaction
 related to purchase with M/s. Agni Gems Pvt. Ltd. The
 learned counsel has urged that based on the particulars
 furnished by the assessee, the transaction with M/s. Agni
 Gems Pvt. Ltd was verified and accepted by the then
 Assessing Officer and passed the assessment order without
 any major additions. In this background of facts, the learned
 counsel submitted that there was no failure on the part of
 the assessee to disclose material facts necessary for the
 assessment for the year under consideration. Therefore,
 reopening is bad. 5.5 The learned counsel vehemently submitted that according
 to the case of the revenue, assessee has made entered into
 transaction with M/s. Agni Gems Pvt. Ltd amount to
 Rs.4,57,48,000/­ and in the reasons recorded, the amount of
 Rs.10,13,00,000/­ has been shown as escaped assessment.
 Therefore, when the purchase was of Rs.4,57,48,000/­ then,
 how the Assessing Officer has recorded that the amount of
 Rs.10,13,00,000/­ has escaped assessment. In this regard, it
 has been urged that this discrepancies show that Assessing
 Officer has not applied his mind while forming the belief of
 escape assessment. 5.6 It was further contended that the Assessing Officer has Page 9 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER acted mechanically on the basis of the information received
 from the concerned department and there is no any
 independent application of mind by the Assessing Officer to
 arrive at the conclusion that the income chargeable to tax has
 escaped assessment. Therefore, reopening based on the third
 party satisfaction cannot be sustained in law and the
 proceedings initiated on borrowed satisfaction required to be
 quashed and set aside. 6. In view of the aforesaid contention, the learned counsel for
 the writ application submitted that, the impugned notice as
 well as the order of disposing off the objections are bad,
 illegal and without jurisdiction and therefore, the same
 deserve to be quashed and set aside and accordingly, the writ
 application may be allowed. 7. On the other hand, Mrs. Kalpana K. Raval, learned Standing
 Counsel appearing for the revenue has vehemently opposed
 the writ application, contending that, in the present case,
 subsequent to the scrutiny assessment, the Assessing Officer
 has received the information from the Investigating Wing
 Surat that the assessee company entered into transaction with
 M/s. Agni Gems Pvt. Ltd amounting to Rs.4,57,48,000/­ and
 total transactions worked out by the Investigation wing of
 Rs.10,13,00,000/­ which prima­facie appears to be an
 accommodation entries which was controlled and managed
 by Hawala dealer Afroze Mohd. Hasanfatta against whom
 case under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Page 10 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER Act, was registered and accordingly he was arrested and
 during the course of investigation it was found that foreign
 remittances were made by 12 entities including M/s. Agni
 Gem Pvt. Ltd, from their bank account to the Dubai and
 Hongkong bases company on the strength of fake documents
 for the purpose of money laundering and the assessee is one
 of the company which had provided entry of funds to the
 Nisha Diamond and Agni Gems. In this factual background,
 the learned counsel for the revenue submitted that the
 Assessing Officer has verified the information and after
 independent inquiries, he found that the transactions with
 M/s. Agni Gems Pvt. Ltd., is not genuine and it is an
 accommodation entries and the assessee was one of the
 beneficiaries and therefore, the income has escaped
 assessment. 8. In view of the above contentions, the learned counsel for the
 revenue urged that the writ application may not be
 entertained. 9. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the
 respective parties and having gone through the materials on
 record, the only question that falls for our consideration is
 whether the revenue is justified in reopening the assessment
 beyond the period of 4 years under Section 147 of the Act. 10. It is settled law that the reopening of the assessment beyond
 4 years from the end of the relevant year, the Assessing
 Officer must have reasons to believe that income chargeable Page 11 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER to tax have escaped assessment and same was occasioned
 either on account of failure on the part of the assessee to
 make a return of his income or disclose fully and truly all
 material facts necessary for assessment of that year and both
 the conditions are condition precedent and must be satisfied
 simultaneously before issuance of the notice. 11. We have carefully examined the materials on the record as
 well as the reasons recorded. It appears from the record that
 the assessee company had filed its return of income for the
 assessment year 2012­13 dated 25.09.2012 declaring total
 income at Rs.7,58,720/­ and assessment for the year under
 consideration was completed under Section 143(3) of the Act
 on 31.03.2014. We take the notice of the fact that the
 transaction of purchases with M/s. Agni Gems pvt. Ltd.
 amounting Rs.4,57,48,000/­ was the reason for reopening of
 the assessment for the year under consideration. 12. A plain reading of the reasons recorded as indicated above,
 emerge that the Assessing Officer had received inquiry report
 in relation to Mr. Afroze Mohd. Hasanfatta and Mr. Madan
 Jain, who made foreign remittances through 12 different
 companies, controlled and supervised by them and there
 involvement in money laundering was detected. As per the
 report, out of 12 companies, one of the concerned was M/s.
 Agni Gems Pvt. Ltd., who made transactions either directly or
 in circular manner, without any import from the other
 countries and money circulated outside India. The Assessing Page 12 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER Officer noticed that the crores of rupees were remitted in UAE
 and Hongkong on the basis of forged bill of entry through the
 bank accounts of 12 companies. The Assessing Officer has
 noted that the ED busted multicrore havala racket during the
 search operation at the several places and found that Mr.
 Afroze Mohd. Hasanfatta and their group, instead of
 importing diamonds, they made bogus import bills, claiming
 that they have purchased the diamonds from foreign traders
 and by using this bogus bills, money was routed through 12
 entities, without any single diamond being imported in India. 13. We have examined the reasons for reopening of the year
 under consideration, wherein, Assessing Officer analyzed the
 records available in the case of the assessee company and
 after perusal of the assessment records, he found that
 assessee is one of the concerned which has provided the
 entries in directly or in circular manner to M/s. Agni Gems
 Pvt. Ltd, operated by Mr. Afroze Mohd. Hasanfatta and the
 purchase transactions as recorded in the books of account by
 the assessee was not genuine and true transactions. The
 Assessing Officer has also taken into account the statements
 of Mr. Afroze Mohd. Hasanfatta and Mr. Madan Jain which
 have been recorded under Section 150 of the PML Act, 2002
 and found that the 12 companies had received huge amount
 from different entities like the present assessee through RTGS
 credits in their respective bank accounts. through their bank
 accounts and the said amount were transferred to Dubai and
 Hongkong companies on the strength of fake import. 14. After careful examination of the materials on record, we
 found that the Assessing Officer has examined the
 information received from the Surat wing and based on the
 information made inquiries to the information and after
 independent application of find, and upon due satisfaction,
 he reached to the conclusion that the alleged transaction with
 the M/s. Agni Gems Pvt. Ltd. Seems to be a bogus purchase
 and it is accommodation entries provided at the instance of
 Afroze Mohd. Hasanfatta and their group. Therefore, the
 reasons recorded led to belief, to form an opinion by the
 Assessing Officer regarding the escapement of assessment
 having live link with the conclusion and materials gathered
 during the inquiry. 15. In view of the aforesaid discussion, it could be said that after
 framing of the assessment made under Section 143(3) of the
 Act, tangible material came into the hands of the Assessing
 Officer through the investigation wing and upon perusal of
 the same, he made independent inquiries and applied his
 mind and upon due satisfaction, he formed an opinion that,
 the income has escaped assessment. 16. The main contention advanced by the learned counsel that at
 the final assessment proceedings, all the material facts
 including the transactions with M/s. Agni Pvt. Ltd having
 been duly recorded in the books of accounts and same was
 thoroughly examined by the Assessing Officer and in this
 circumstances, when there was no concealment or Page 14 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER suppression of any facts, the reopening beyond 4 years in the
 absence of any non­disclosure of material facts cannot be
 permitted. 17. We do not agree with the above contention mainly on the
 ground that during the course of previous assessment
 proceedings, the assessee failed to disclose material
 particulars with regard to alleged transactions and the true
 facts of the transactions having been discovered by the
 Assessing Officer on the basis of the information received
 from the concerned department. Law in this regard has been
 settled by various decisions of this Court as well as the Apex
 Court that burden is on the assessee to make true and full
 disclosure. Therefore, where the transaction itself on the basis
 of the subsequent information is found to be a bogus
 transactions, mere a disclosure of said transaction at the time
 of original proceedings, cannot be said to be a disclosure of
 "true and full" facts in the case. In this context, we may refer
 and rely on the observations made by the Apex Court in the
 case of Phoolchand Bajranglal and another Vs. ITO (2001)
 10 SCC 189. The observations made in para­19 reads thus: 18. In case of Yogendrakumar Gupta Vs. ITO (2014) 366 ITR,
 this Court while rejecting petition challenging the notice for
 reopening which was issued beyond a period of 4 years from
 the end of relevant assessment year, wherein, one of the
 ground was that the issue was previously scrutinized during
 the assessment proceedings. We may reproduce the
 observations made in paras 16, 17 and 21, which read thus: 19. In Aradhna Estate (P) Ltd Vs. DCIT , (2018) 91
 taxmann.com 119, this Court held that where reassessment
 proceedings were initiated on the basis of the information
 received from the investigation wing that assessee had
 received certain amount from the Shell Companies working
 as an accommodation entry provider merely because these
 transactions were scrutinized by the Assessing officer during
 original assessment proceedings, the reassessment could not
 be held unjustified. taxmann.com, this Court while examining the validity of the
 notice, held that where assessment was made on the basis of
 information received from the Principal DIT, (Investigation),
 that assessee was beneficiary of accommodation entry by way
 of share application provided by a third party, same was
 justified. 21. In the case of Jayant Security Finance Ltd Vs. Asst . CIT
 (2018) 91, taxmann.com, this Court held that the
 information from the investigation wing stating that the loan
 from the company working as an entry operator and earning
 bogus firms to provide advances to various persons was
 sufficient and would constitute genuine and bonafide reason
 to believe. 22. In view of the law laid down by this Court as well as the Apex
 Court and considering the facts of the present case, we are of
 the view that, the assessee was aware that the transaction
 with M/s. Agni Pvt Ltd was not business transaction but in
 the form of bogus purchase, it was only an accommodation
 entries and the company was one of the beneficiaries of the
 transactions, despite of this, the assessee failed to disclose
 true and correct facts at the relevant time and therefore, the
 Assessing Officer is entitled to initiate reassessment
 proceedings on the basis of tangible material came in his
 hand, which tends to expose the untruthfulness of the entry Page 17 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER of purchase made in the books of accounts. In this context,
 we may refer the observation of the Apex Court in the case of Honda Siel Power Products Vs. Dy. CIT , (2011) 10,
 taxmann.com, wherein, it is held that assessee having not
 pointed out during assessment proceedings about exprenses
 incurred relatable to tax free income u/s. 14A , there was an
 omission and failure on its part to disclose fully and truly
 material facts, hence, reopening was justified. 23. The next contention raised by the learned counsel is that the
 reassessment proceedings could be said to have been initiated
 mechanically on the basis of third party information. We have
 examined the reasons as indicated above, and we are of the
 view that the Assessing Officer has verified the information
 and after application of mind and upon due satisfaction, he
 formed an opinion that income has escaped assessment. In
 this regard, it would be profitable to refer the decision of Principal Commissioner of Income Tax, Rajkot Vs. Gokul
 Ceramics reported in (2016) Taxman 1 (Gujarat), wherein,
 similar contention was raised and while rejecting the
 contention, this Court made the following observations. Paras
 9 to 14 read thus: 11. In case of Income Tax Officer v. Purushottam Das Bangur (supra) after completion of assessment in case of the
 assessee, the Assessing Officer received letter from
 Directorate of Investigation giving detailed particulars
 collected from Bombay Stock Exchange which revealed
 earning of share and price of share increased during period
 in question and quotation appearing at Calcutta Stock
 Exchange was as a result of manipulated transaction. On the
 basis of such information, the Assessing Officer issued notice
 for reopening of the assessment. The question, therefore,
 arose whether the information contained in the letter of
 Directorate of Investigation could be said to be definite
 information and the Assessing Officer could act upon such
 information for taking action under Section 147(b) of the
 Act. In such background, the Supreme Court observed as
 under: "12. Ms. Gauri Rastogi, the learned counsel appearing
 for the respondents, has urged that the letter of Shri.
 Bagai was received by the Income tax Officer on
 March 26, 1974 and on the very next day, that is, on
 March 27, 1974, he issued the impugned notice under Section 147(b) of the Act and that he did not have
 conducted any inquiry or investigation into the
 information sent by Shri. Bagai. Merely because the
 impugned notice was sent on the next day after
 receipt of the letter of Shri. Bagai does not mean that
 the Income Tax Officer did not apply his mind to the
 information contained in the said letter of Shri. Bagai.
 On the basis of the said facts and information
 contained in the said letter, the Income Tax officer,
 without any further investigation, could have formed
 the opinion that there was reason to believe that the
 income of the assessee chargeable to tax had escaped
 assessment. The High Court, in our opinion, was in
 error in proceeding on the basis that it could not be
 said that the Income Tax Officer had in his possession
 information on the basis of which he could have
 reasons to believe that income of the assessee
 chargeable to tax had escaped assessment for the
 relevant assessment years. For the reasons
 aforementioned, we are unable to uphold the
 impugned judgment of the High Court. The appeal is,
 therefore, allowed, the impugned judgment of the
 High Court is set aside and the Writ Petitions filed by
 the respondents are dismissed. No order as to costs." 12. In case of Income Tax Officer v. Selected Dalurband Coal
 Co. Pvt. Ltd. (supra), the assessment was reopened on the
 basis of the information contained in letter from Chief
 Mining Officer that the colliery of the assessee had been
 inspected and there had been under reporting of coal raised.
 Upholding the validity of re­opening of assessment, the
 Supreme Court held and observed as under: 13. In case of AGR Investment Ltd. v. Additional
 Commissioner of Income Tax and anr. (supra), a Division
 Bench of Delhi High Court considered the validity of
 reopening of assessment where the notice was based on
 information received from Directorate of investigation that Page 21 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021 C/SCA/21124/2019 ORDER the assessee was beneficiary of bogus accommodation
 entries. The Court while upholding the validity of reopening
 observed that sufficiency of reason cannot be considered in a
 writ petition. It was observed as under: Regard being had to the aforesaid fact situation, this
 Court had interfered. Thus , the said decision is also
 distinguishable on the factual score." 14. Learned Single Judge of Madras High Court in case of Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of
 Income Tax reported in [2008] 302 ITR 275 (Mad) upheld
 the notice for reopening which was based on information
 from enforcement directorate showing possible inflation of
 purchases made by the assessee." 24. The learned counsel raised the contention that while
 according the sanction under Section 151 of the Act, the
 authority concerned has not applied his mind properly and
 mechanically accorded the sanction. We have perused the
 papers of the approval, which shows that the competent
 authority has given the satisfaction in hand writing and has
 expressed his satisfaction with regard to reasons recorded
 and accorded the sanction to issue impugned notice.
 Therefore, the approval for reassessment was granted on the
 date on which the impugned notice was issued. In this
 circumstances, the contention raised by the learned advocate
 for the writ applicant that sanction was not obtained before
 issuance of the notice cannot be accepted. 25. In view of the discussions made hereinabove, it cannot be
 said that there was no tangible material before the Assessing
 Officer and that he proceeded mechanically based on the sole
 information and the impugned notice is without jurisdiction
 and contrary to Section 147 of the Act. 26. For the foregoing reasons, no case is made out and
 accordingly, present writ application deserves to be dismissed
 and is dismissed. No order as to costs. (J. B. PARDIWALA, J)

 (ILESH J. VORA,J)
P.S. JOSHI Page 24 of 24 Downloaded on : Sat Sep 04 17:54:17 IST 2021