Aggrieved by the order dated 16/07/2024 passed by the learned
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)- National Faceless Appeal Centre
 ITA No. 801 & 802/Hyd/2024

(NFAC), Delhi ("Ld. CIT(A)"), in the case of Devi Agro Industries ("the
assessee") for the assessment year 2012-13, assessee preferred these
appeals. Since the issue involved in these appeals is common, these
appeals are clubbed, heard together and a common order is being passed
for the sake of convenience as under. 2. Briefly stated relevant facts are that the assessee is a partnership
firm engaged in the business of rice mill. It filed the return of income for
the assessment year 2012-13 on 30/09/2012, declaring an income of
Rs.6,50,780/-. Assessment under section 143(3) of the Income tax Act,
1961 ("the Act"), was completed by order dated 09.01.2015 by assessing
the total income at 9,50,780/-. 3. Subsequently, learned Assessing Officer received information from
CTO, Bodhan circle, Nizamabad Division stating that there was a short
payment of sales tax for the period from January, 2011 to May, 2011
claimed through fake challan copies attracting provisions of section 43B of
the Act and name of the assessee is in the list enclosed to the letter dated
27/02/2018. Thereupon, the learned Assessing Officer initiated reopening
proceedings by issuing notice under section 148, but the assessee did not
file return of income in response thereto. 4. Since the assessee did not respond to any of the notices issued
thereafter, learned assessing officer completed the assessment on best
judgement mode. Learned Assessing Officer noticed from the financial
statements that the assessee claimed Rs.60,96,416/- as expenditure
towards VAT, Rs.2,60,605/- as expenses towards CST and Rs.41,03,882/-
towards the payment of RD Cess in its Profit and Loss Account. Assessee
failed to produce the challan/proof of payment of VAT and the CST, stating
that in the circumstances, such production is beyond the control of the
assessee. In the circumstances, learned Assessing Officer added a sum of
Rs.1,04,60,903/- to the income of the assessee and determined the total
income at Rs.1,14,11,683/-. 5. Aggrieved by such an action of the learned Assessing Officer,
assessee preferred appeal and produced additional evidence like income Page 2 of 6 ITA No. 801 & 802/Hyd/2024

tax return copy, balance sheet, profit and loss account, audit report,
computation of total income and written submissions to show that the
assessee paid the VAT and CST payments in the year, and pleaded that
merely because the CTO did not confirm the genuineness of the VAT and
CST payments, no relief could be denied. 6. Apart from this, before us, the assessee took another plea that the
tax consultant deeply frauded the assessee by breaching VATIS portal and
preparing bogus challans driven by the greed to unduly enrich himself,
which the assessee is unaware of. The further plea of the assessee on this
aspect is that an FIR was lodged with police against the tax consultant and
evidence to that fact is furnished to the state CID also. On this score also,
the assessee pleaded before the learned CIT(A) that since it paid the
amount to the VAT consultant, who misappropriated the same, assessee
is entitled to claim the loss arising out of the misappropriation by the
agent. 7. Learned CIT(A) considered all these aspects and recorded that the
assessee filed the copies of the VAT returns and copies of the challan along
with copy of FIR and CID investigation report. But since the issue relates
to a scam or criminal breach of trust, forgery and criminal conspiracy with
the connivance of the Commercial Tax Office, Bodhan and the CID
highlighted all these facts, still the fact remains that the assessee is entitled
to claim the deduction of only such amount if any, as received by the Govt.
treasury and, therefore, the learned Assessing Officer rightly added
Rs.1,04,60,903/-. 8. Assessee is therefore, before us in this appeal contending that the
authorities below failed to consider the evidence produced by the
assessee in support of its contention that the assessee made the entire
payment towards VAT and CST and as a matter of fact, the assessee filed
cases against the tax consultant and it is proved that CID also highlighted
this fact shows that the assessee suffered due to the misappropriation by
the agent, which is an allowable deduction. ITA No. 801 & 802/Hyd/2024 9. Per contra, learned DR submitted that the assessee is not entitled
to claim the deduction under section 37(1) of the Act in respect of the
amounts said to have been misappropriated by the tax consultants in
connivance with the CTO office in respect of which the inquiry by the CID
is pending. She submitted that the assessee is not entitled to claim to
off-set the misappropriated portion of the money and claim deduction in
the return. 10. We have gone through the record in the light of the submissions
made on either side. It is a fact that no part of the total sum of
Rs.1,04,60,903/- was proved to have been remitted to the Government
exchequer and therefore, learned Assessing Officer disallowed the same.
Assessee claims to be a victim of the fraud committed by the agent and
entitled to claim deduction in respect of such sum also, which the
authorities below denied. To establish the fraud, assessee filed complaint
against the tax auditor and produced the copies of FIR and the CID report
before the learned CIT(A). But, the authorities below refused to grant any
relief under section 37(1) of the Act. 11. On this aspect, in the case of Badridas Daga vs. CIT [1958] 34 ITR 10,
the Hon'ble Apex Court affirmed the view that the loss resulting from
embezzlement by an employee or agent of a business is admissible as a
deduction under section 10(1) of the 1922 Act, corresponding to section
28 of the Act, if it arises out of the carrying on of the business and is
incidental to it. In the case of Associated Banking Corporation of India Ltd.
vs. CIT [1965] 56 ITR 1, the Hon'ble Court held that the loss must be
deemed to have arisen only when the employer comes to know about it
and realizes that the amounts embezzled cannot be recovered. 12. It was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Associated
Banking Corporation of India Ltd. (supra) that it would be wrong to say that
irrespective of other considerations, as soon as an embezzlement of the
employer's funds takes place, whether the employer is aware or not of the
embezzlement, there results a trading loss, and so long as there is a
reasonable prospect of recovery of the embezzlement, trading loss in a
commercial sense cannot be deemed to have resulted. Further in the case Page 4 of 6 ITA No. 801 & 802/Hyd/2024

of Hopkin and Williams (Travancore) Ltd. v. CIT (1967) 64 ITR 76 (Ker) it
was held that deduction claimed was an admissible deduction if it was not
possible to recover the loss from the persons responsible for the same. If
the assessee has made the necessary attempts to recover the loss from
the persons concerned and had failed or if the assessee did not make such
attempts, because it was useless to make them in view of the financial
position of the persons concerned, then and then alone the loss could be
allowed. All the factual aspects require consideration by the authorities
below in the light of the decisions reported in the cases of Badridas Daga (supra) Associated Banking Corporation of India Ltd. (supra) and Hopkin
and Williams (Travancore) Ltd (supra). It would, therefore, be in the
interest of justice to set aside the impugned order and restore the issue to
the file of the learned Assessing Officer for verification of the facts in
respect of entitlement of the assessee to claim deduction of the amount
said to have been misappropriated by the VAT consultants. 13. We, therefore, set aside the impugned order and restore the issue
to the file of the learned Assessing Officer for verification of the facts in
respect of entitlement of the assessee to claim deduction of the amount
said to have been misappropriated by the VAT consultants. Grounds are
accordingly treated as allowed for statistical purposes. 14. Since the issue in ITA No.801/Hyd/2024 is restored to the file of the
learned Assessing Officer for verification, the issue with regard to levy of
interest under section 234A and 234B, raised in Ground No.3 in ITA
No.802/Hyd/2024 is also restored to the file of the learned Assessing
Officer. 15. In the result, appeals of the assessee are treated as allowed for
statistical purposes. ITA No. 801 & 802/Hyd/2024

 Order pronounced in the open court on this the 4th day of
December, 2024. 1.Devi Agro Industries, C/o P.Murali & Co., Chartered Accountants, 6-3-
655/2/3, Somajiguda, Hyderabad, Telangana 2. The Income Tax Officer, Ward-2, Hyderabad 3. The Pr.CIT, Hyderabad 4. The DR, ITAT, Hyderabad. 5. GUARD FILE

 TRUE COPY

 ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
 ITAT, HYDERABAD Page 6 of 6