Per Sanjeev Kumar, J 1. In this batch of petitions, the petitioners invoke the extraordinary writ

 jurisdiction vested in this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of

 India to throw challenge to the show cause notices issued to them by the

 Superintendent, CGST and CX Range-I, Srinagar, under Section 74(1) of the

 Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 [" CGST Act of 2017"], read with

 the J&K Goods and Services Act, 2017 ["J&K GST Act of 2017"). 2. In some of the petitions, the competent authority of the respondents

 has confirmed the demand. Admittedly, the petitioners, having statutory

 remedies under both the legislations, have chosen to invoke the writ

 jurisdiction of this Court on the ground that the impugned notices are

 without jurisdiction and, therefore, availability of alternative statutory

 remedy is no bar to the entertaining of the writ petitions. It is in this

 background, the learned counsel for the petitioners has made his submissions

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 3 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 to persuade us to hold that the show cause notices issued by the respondents

 are without jurisdiction and, therefore, not sustainable in law. 3. Before we advert to the rival contentions of the parties and the

 grounds of challenge to the impugned show cause notices urged by Mr.

 Faisal Qadri, learned Senior Counsel, we deem it appropriate to notice few

 background facts leading to the issuance of show cause notices and

 consequent filing of these petitions. 4. In the year 2008, with a view to improve relations through

 undertaking, various Confidence Building Measures, the Governments of

 two countries, i.e., the Union of India and Pakistan, took a decision to allow

 a free LoC cross trade between them on certain terms and conditions. This

 decision, so arrived at between the two countries, ultimately culminated into

 issuance of notification dated 20th October, 2008, by the Government of

 India. 5. From perusal of notification dated 20th October, 2008, it would

 transpire that the trade was only cross LoC trade on Srinagar-Muzaffarabad

 and Poonch-Rawalakote routes. The term "Cross-LoC trade" clearly

 conveyed that the trade was permitted only between divided parts of the

 State of Jammu and Kashmir and was one of the Confidence Building

 Measures aimed at benefiting the local economy on both sides of LoC. The

 trade was regulated by the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by

 the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs (J&K Division).

 Annexure-A of the SOP listed 21 items to be traded from Islamabad-Uri to

 Chakoti (PoK) and from Chakkan-da-Bagh (Poonch) to Rawalakote (PoK).

 Annexure-B of the SOP listed 21 items to be traded from Chakoti (PoK) to

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 4 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 Islamabad-Uri and from Rawalakot (PoK) to Chakkan-da-Bagh (Poonch) as

 mutually agreed by India and Pakistan, it was a barter trade and there was no

 exchange of currency. 6. At the relevant point of time, when this cross-LoC trade commenced,

 the intra-state sales tax was governed by the Jammu and Kashmir Value

 Added Taxes Act, 2005 ["the VAT Act, 2005 "]. Section 55 of the VAT Act,

 2005, which came to be amended on 7th February, 2012 categorically

 provided that the cross-LoC trade would be considered as a zero-rated sale.

 The cross-LoC trade was thus carried by the petitioners and other traders

 without payment of any sale or purchase tax. 7. However, in the year 2017, the GST regime was rolled out by the Government, and CGST Act, 2017 and J&K GST Act, 2017 were

 promulgated. Both the legislations came into operation with effect from 8th

 July, 2017. Admittedly, there was no provision under these legislations akin

 to Section 5 of the J& K VAT Act, 2005 . The petitioners, as they claim,

 treated cross-LoC trade as a zero-rated sale, attracting no sale tax, did not

 indicate their cross-LoC transactions in their return, nor did they pay any

 sales tax on this account. This happened in the financial years 2017-2018

 and 2018-2019. 8. The respondent authorities, having received information from the

 Office of DGGI, JRU, Jammu, initiated investigations against the petitioners

 to probe as to whether the petitioners had paid GST on their outward supply

 of goods to PoK during cross-LoC trade and also on the inward supplies

 received from PoK upto 12th October, 2017. It seems that the

 Superintendent, CGST and CX Range Srinagar, called for trade-wise, item-

 wise details of goods traded out and the goods traded-in, in respect of each

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 5 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 cross-LoC traders for the period with effect from 8th of July, 2017, to 7th of

 March, 2019. 9. Upon collection of the relevant material, it was found that there were

 huge outward and inward supplies affected by the petitioners and that the

 GST on such supplies had not been accounted for in the returns filed by the

 petitioners. Accordingly, the impugned show cause notices upon the

 petitioners in terms of Section 74(1) of the CGST Act, 2017 was served. The

 petitioners chose not to reply to the show cause notices and decided to assail

 the same before this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India on

 the ground that the show cause notice was without jurisdiction and bad in the

 eyes of law. 10. The impugned notices have been called in question by the petitioners

 primarily on the following grounds: WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 6 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025 4. that even if it is assumed that the cross-LoC trade is an
 intra-state trade, yet Section 74 would not be attracted
 unless it is a case of wilful representation, fraud, or
 suppression of fact. The case would naturally fall under Section 73 for which a lesser period of limitation has
 been prescribed for reopening of the assessment; that the
 bunching of show cause notice in respect of two different
 financial years, i.e., 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 is not
 permissible under the GST Act, 2017. 11. Mr. Faisal Qadri, the learned Senior Counsel, has elaborated his

 arguments on all the four highlighted aspects of the dispute. Mr. Qadri was,

 however, quick to concede that the nature of cross-LoC between two parts of

 the State is clearly suggestive of the fact that the trade is intra-state and not a

 trade of import or export of goods between two countries. We appreciate the

 fair stand taken by learned Senior Counsel. 12. Mr. Qadri has placed reliance on a couple of judgments passed by

 various High Courts to hammer his point that bunching of notices for

 different financial years is not permissible in law. We will advert to these

 judgments later. 13. Per contra, Mr. Tahir Majid Shamsi, learned DSGI, appearing for

 respondents, supports the reasoning given by the Officer in the order

 confirming the demand and would submit that going by the provisions of CGST Act, 2017 , the supplies to and from PoK in pursuance of cross-LoC

 trade conducted as per SOP 2008, are intra-state and taxable under CGST

 Act /SGST Act and that no exemption notification exists for cross-LoC barter

 trade. He would further submit that notice was issued under Section 74(1) of

 the CGST Act, 2017, for suppression of facts, the petitioners deliberately

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 7 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 and wilfully suppressed the taxable supplies in GSTR-1, GSTR-3B and

 avoided payment of GST. 14. With regard to the limitation, Mr. Shamsi would submit that the due

 date for filing returns for the financial year 2018-2019 was till 31st

 December 2022 as is apparent from a notification dated 20th October, 2020,

 issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Finance (Department of

 Revenue) by notification number 80/2020-Central Tax, and the period for

 which the impugned show cause notices have been issued falls in the

 financial year 2018-2019. He would, therefore, argue that the impugned

 show cause notices issued by respondents were within the time prescribed

 and cannot be assailed on the ground that the same are beyond the period

 prescribed and, therefore, without jurisdiction. 15. To sum up his arguments, Mr. Tahir Shamsi would urge this Court to

 dismiss the petitions and relegate them to the statutory remedies under Section 107 of the CGST Act, 2017. He places reliance upon a couple of

 judgments to support his argument. 16. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material

 on record, we find that the following questions have arisen for determination

 in these petitions:- I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 is a notice issued under section 74(1) of the CGST Act of
 2017 ? (3) Whether the impugned show cause notice issued by the
 respondents purportedly under section 74(1) of CGST
 Act of 2017 is barred by limitation having been issued
 beyond the period prescribed under the said Section ?

 (4) Whether the bunching of show cause notice in respect of
 two tax periods i.e., financial year 2017-2018 and 2018 -
 2019 is permissible under GST Act of 2017 ? (5) Whether in case of barter trade where the goods are
 exchanged for goods of equal amount, the assessee can
 be taxed twice, once for outward supplies and second
 time for inward supplies ? (6) Whether the availability of statutory remedy of appeal
 provided under Section 107 of the CGST Act of 2017
 which is an equally efficacious remedy, bars the
 entertainability of writ petition under Article 226 of
 Constitution of India ? Q. No. 1. Nature of LoC trade: Whether an intra-state trade? 17. The cross-LoC trade, as we have narrated hereinabove was one of the

 Confidence Building Measures agreed upon by the two countries i.e., India

 and Pakistan. With a view to regulating cross-LoC trade, the Ministry of

 Home Affairs, Government of India issued SOP on 20th October 2008. This

 cross-LoC trade was decided to commence on Srinagar-Muzaffarabad and

 Poonch-Rawalakote routes with effect from 21st October 2008. This was

 essentially a barter trade where there was no exchange of currency from

 either side. This cross-LoC trade was between the people living across LoC

 i.e., trade between two parts of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, one, the

 then 'State of Jammu and Kashmir' and the other 'Pak occupied Kashmir'.

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 9 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025 18. "Intra-state supply of goods" is defined in Section 2 (64) of the CGST

 Act of 2017 in the following manner :- 19. Section 8 of the Integrated GST Act of 2017 reads as under:- Explanation 2.- A person carrying on a business through
 a branch or an agency or a representational office in any

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 10 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 territory shall be treated as having an establishment in
 that territory. 20. From reading of the intra-state supplies of goods and services, it is

 evident that where the location of supplier and the place of supplies of goods

 are in the same State or same Union Territory, that shall be treated as intra-

 state supply. 21. Section 2(56) of CGST Act of 2017 defines "India" as under:- 22. It is thus evident that India means Territory of India as referred to in Article 1 of the Constitution of India and, therefore, it would be appropriate

 to set out hereinbelow Article 1 of the Constitution as well which reads

 thus:- 23. To better understand, it would also be appropriate to refer to the

 definition of State as given in Section 2 (103) of the JK GST Act of 2017

 which reads thus: 24. It is not disputed by learned counsel appearing on either side that the

 area of the State presently under de-facto control of Pakistan is part of

 territories of the State of Jammu & Kashmir. Therefore, in the instant case

 the location of the suppliers and the place of supply of goods were within the

 then State of Jammu Kashmir (now Union Territory) and, therefore, the

 cross-LoC trade affected by the petitioners during the tax period in question

 was nothing but an intra-state trade. We appreciate the fair stand taken by

 the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners despite their being

 contrary pleadings disputing the nature of cross LoC trade as intra-state

 trade. Q. No. 2. The impugned show cause notice: 25. With a view to appreciate the rival contentions of the learned counsel

 appearing for the parties, a quick look at Section 73 and 74 of the GST Act

 of 2017 would be necessary. Section 73 . Determination of tax not paid or short paid
 or erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly
 availed or utilised for any reason other than fraud or
 any wilful-misstatement or suppression of facts.-
 (1) Where it appears to the proper officer that any
 tax has not been paid or short paid or erroneously
 refunded, or where input tax credit has been wrongly
 availed or utilised for any reason, other than the reason
 of fraud or any wilful-misstatement or suppression of
 facts to evade tax, he shall serve notice on the person
 chargeable with tax which has not been so paid or which
 has been so short paid or to whom the refund has
 erroneously been made, or who has wrongly availed or

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 12 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 utilised input tax credit, requiring him to show cause as
 to why he should not pay the amount specified in the
 notice along with interest payable thereon under section
 50 and a penalty leviable under the provisions of this Act
 or the rules made thereunder. (2) The proper officer shall issue the notice under
 sub-section (1) at least three months prior to the time
 limit specified in sub-section (10) for issuance of order.
 (3) Where a notice has been issued for any period
 under sub-section (1), the proper officer may serve a
 statement, containing the details of tax not paid or short
 paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly
 availed or utilised for such periods other than those
 covered under sub-section (1), on the person chargeable
 with tax. (4) The service of such statement shall be deemed to
 be service of notice on such person under sub-section
 (1), subject to the condition that the grounds relied
 upon for such tax periods other than those covered
 under sub-section (1) are the same as are mentioned in
 the earlier notice. (5) The person chargeable with tax may, before
 service of notice under subsection (1) or, as the case
 may be, the statement under sub-section (3), pay the
 amount of tax along with interest payable thereon
 under section 50 on the basis of his own ascertainment
 of such tax or the tax as ascertained by the proper
 officer and inform the proper officer in writing of such
 payment. (6) The proper officer, on receipt of such information,
 shall not serve any notice under sub-section (1) or, as
 the case may be, the statement under sub-section (3), in
 respect of the tax so paid or any penalty payable under
 the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.
 (7) Where the proper officer is of the opinion that the
 amount paid under sub-section (5) falls short of the
 amount actually payable, he shall proceed to issue the
 notice as provided for in sub-section (1) in respect of
 such amount which falls short of the amount actually
 payable. (8) Where any person chargeable with tax under sub-
 section (1) or sub-section (3) pays the said tax along with
 interest payable under section 50 within thirty days of
 issue of show cause notice, no penalty shall be payable

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 13 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 and all proceedings in respect of the said notice shall be
 deemed to be concluded. (9) The proper officer shall, after considering the
 representation, if any, made by person chargeable with
 tax, determine the amount of tax, interest and a penalty
 equivalent to ten per cent. of tax or ten thousand
 rupees, whichever is higher, due from such person and
 issue an order. (10) The proper officer shall issue the order under sub-
 section (9) within three years from the due date for
 furnishing of annual return for the financial year to
 which the tax not paid or short paid or input tax credit
 wrongly availed or utilised relates to or within three
 years from the date of erroneous refund. (11) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
 section (6) or sub-section (8), penalty under sub-section
 (9) shall be payable where any amount of self-assessed
 tax or any amount collected as tax has not been paid
 within a period of thirty days from the due date of
 payment of such tax. Section 74 . Determination of tax not paid or short
 paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit
 wrongly availed or utilised by reason of fraud or any
 wilful- misstatement or suppression of facts.
 (1) Where it appears to the proper officer that any
 tax has not been paid or short paid or erroneously
 refunded or where input tax credit has been wrongly
 availed or utilised by reason of fraud, or any wilful-
 misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, he
 shall serve notice on the person chargeable with tax
 which has not been so paid or which has been so short
 paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made,
 or who has wrongly availed or utilised input tax credit,
 requiring him to show cause as to why he should not pay
 the amount specified in the notice along with interest
 payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty
 equivalent to the tax specified in the notice.
 (2) The proper officer shall issue the notice under
 sub-section (1) at least six months prior to the time limit
 specified in sub-section (10) for issuance of order.
 (3) Where a notice has been issued for any period
 under sub-section (1), the proper officer may serve a
 statement, containing the details of tax not paid or short
 paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly
 availed or utilised for such periods other than those

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 14 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 covered under sub-section (1), on the person chargeable
 with tax. (4) The service of statement under sub-section (3)
 shall be deemed to be service of notice under sub-
 section (1) of section 73 , subject to the condition that
 the grounds relied upon in the said statement, except
 the ground of fraud, or any wilful-misstatement or
 suppression of facts to evade tax, for periods other than
 those covered under subsection (1) are the same as are
 mentioned in the earlier notice. (5) The person chargeable with tax may, before
 service of notice under sub-section (1), pay the amount
 of tax along with interest payable under section 50 and a
 penalty equivalent to fifteen per cent. of such tax on the
 basis of his own ascertainment of such tax or the tax as
 ascertained by the proper officer and inform the proper
 officer in writing of such payment. (6) The proper officer, on receipt of such information,
 shall not serve any notice under sub-section (1), in
 respect of the tax so paid or any penalty payable under
 the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.
 (7) Where the proper officer is of the opinion that the
 amount paid under sub-section (5) falls short of the
 amount actually payable, he shall proceed to issue the
 notice as provided for in sub-section (1) in respect of
 such amount which falls short of the amount actually
 payable. (8) Where any person chargeable with tax under sub-
 section (1) pays the said tax along with interest payable
 under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to twenty-five
 per cent. of such tax within thirty days of issue of the
 notice, all proceedings in respect of the said notice shall
 be deemed to be concluded. (9) The proper officer shall, after considering the
 representation, if any, made by the person chargeable
 with tax, determine the amount of tax, interest and
 penalty due from such person and issue an order.
 (10) The proper officer shall issue the order under sub-
 section (9) within a period of five years from the due
 date for furnishing of annual return for the financial year
 to which the tax not paid or short paid or input tax credit
 wrongly availed or utilised relates to or within five years
 from the date of erroneous refund. (11) Where any person served with an order issued
 under sub-section (9) pays the tax along with interest
 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 15 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty
 equivalent to fifty per cent. of such tax within thirty days
 of communication of the order, all proceedings in
 respect of the said notice shall be deemed to be
 concluded. Explanation 1.- For the purposes of section 73 and this
 section,- (i) the expression "all proceedings in respect of the said
 notice" shall not include proceedings under section 132 ; (ii) where the notice under the same proceedings is
 issued to the main person liable to pay tax and some
 other persons, and such proceedings against the main
 person have been concluded under section 73 or section
 74 , the proceedings against all the persons liable to pay
 penalty under [ sections 122 , 125 , 129 and 130 ] are
 deemed to be concluded. Explanation 2.- For the purposes of this Act, the
 expression "suppression" shall mean non-declaration of
 facts or information which a taxable person is required
 to declare in the return, statement, report or any other
 document furnished under this Act or the rules made
 thereunder, or failure to furnish any information on
 being asked for, in writing, by the proper officer. 26. Both these Sections fall in Chapter XV dealing with the subject

 "DEMAND and RECOVERY". Section 73 , as is evident from its plain

 reading, is invoked by the proper officer, when any tax has not been paid or

 short paid or erroneously refunded, or where input tax credit has been

 wrongly availed or utilized for any reason "other than the reason of fraud

 or any willful mis-statement or suppression of facts" to evade tax.

 Whereas Section 74(1) can be invoked by the proper officer where any tax

 has been paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or their input tax credit

 has been wrongly availed or utilized "by reason of fraud or any willful

 mis-statement or suppression of facts" to evade tax. 27. From reading of the two provisions in juxtaposition, the difference in

 the two is clearly visible. If the evasion of tax has taken place because of

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 16 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 fraud or any willful mis-statement or suppression of facts, Section 74 would

 be attracted and the proper officer shall serve a notice on the person

 chargeable with tax which has not been paid or which has been short paid or

 to whom the fund has been erroneously made or who has wrongly availed or

 utilized input tax credit requiring him to show cause as to why he should not

 pay the amount specified in the notice along with interest and penalty. This

 notice is required to be served by the proper officer at least six months prior

 to the time limit of five years from the due date of furnishing the annual

 return for the financial year in question. However, absent any fraud, willful

 mis-statement or suppression of facts, if there is evasion of tax for any other

 reason, Section 73 would be applicable and the time limit for passing order

 under said Section would be three years from the due date for furnishing the

 annual return for the relevant financial year. 28. Apart from the fact the two provisions operate on different grounds,

 the other difference between the two provisions is the period of limitation

 prescribed for passing an order, after issuing a show cause notice under the

 two sections, confirming the demand. With a view to finding out as to

 whether the impugned notice which is purportedly issued under section

 74(1) of the CGST Act of 2017, actually falls within the ambit of the

 Section, we have carefully gone through the impugned show cause notice

 issued to each one of the petitioners in these petitions. 29. Para 6, 6(a) and 6(b) furnish grounds for issuance of show cause

 notice which for facility of reference are reproduced hereinbelow: - I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 [under RCM up to 12/10/2017 as per notification No.
 08/2017-Central Tax (Rate) dated 28.06.2017 are intra-
 state supplies and are subject to GST in view of the
 provisions of Section 7 of CGST Act 2017. 6(a) As per Explanation 2 of Section 74 of CGST Act of 2017,
 the expression "suppression" shall mean non-
 declaration of facts or information which a taxable
 person is required to declare in the return, statement,
 report, or any other documents furnished under this Act
 or the rules made thereunder, or failure to furnish any
 information on being asked for, in writing, by the proper
 officer. The Noticee appears to have deliberately not
 cooperated/willfully not associated with the
 investigations and also, appears to have
 deliberately/willfully not supplied copies of invoices and
 requisite information. Further, under the self-
 assessment procedure prescribed under CGST Act 2017
 and rules made thereunder, it was the responsibility of
 the Noticee to determine and discharge their GST
 liability and file GST returns properly, but the Noticee
 neither assessed their GST liability correctly, nor they
 discharged their due GST liability and suppressed the
 facts from the Department with sole intention to evade
 payment of GST. 6(b) Had the Department not initiated enquiry and
 investigation against the Noticee evidencing the
 Noticee's indulgence into evasion of the GST by short
 payment of GST, the evasion would have remained
 unearthed. In view of the discussion supra, it appears
 that the Noticee willfully contravened the provisions of
 the CGST Act and the J&K SGST Act, by not paying the
 due GST on cross LoC-barter trade during financial year
 2018-19. As such, GST amount of Rs. 1,23,400/- appears
 to be recoverable from the party under Section 74 of the
 CGST Act 2017 and Section 74 of the J&K SGST Act 2017
 along with interest payable thereon under Section 50 of
 the Acts and penalty equivalent to the tax. 30. From careful reading of the above paras of the impugned show cause

 notice, it clearly comes out that there was prima face suppression of material

 facts by the petitioners and that the petitioners were well aware that there

 was no specific notification issued by the Government under Section 11 of

 the CGST Act of 2017 exempting cross-LoC barter trade from payment of

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 18 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 GST. They were also aware that these supplies whether inward or outward

 were intra-state supplies and subject to GST in terms of section 7 of the

 CGST Act 2017. It was the responsibility of the petitioners to self-assess and

 discharge their GST liability at the time of filing GST returns properly. The

 CGST Act of 2017 provides a self-assessment procedure which casts a

 statutory responsibility on the assessee to disclose all transactions whether

 taxable or exempted. It also comes forth from para 6(a) of the show cause

 notice that the petitioners deliberately did not cooperate and associate with

 the investigation nor did they supply the copy of invoices and requisite

 information. It is also coming out from the show cause notice that had the

 department not initiated inquiry and investigation, the evasion of GST by the

 petitioners by short payment of GST could not have been unearthed. 31. The reading of show cause notice particularly the paras which we

 have reproduced above do make it a prima facie case of suppression of facts

 tracing the impugned show cause notice to Section 74(1) of the CGST Act of

 2017. We have deliberately used the expression "prima facie" as we would

 leave it open to the proper officer to adjudicate this aspect independently on

 the basis of material placed before it and the reply, if any, submitted by the

 petitioners to the show cause notice. 32. It is in view of the above, it is concluded that the impugned notice is

 prima facie issued on the ground of suppression of facts and information

 and, therefore, falls within the purview of Section 74(1) of the CGST Act of

 2017. Q. No. 3. Whether the impugned notice is barred by limitation
 prescribed under Section 74 (2) read with Section 74(10) .

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 19 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025 33. Before we proceed to determine the question, we deem it appropriate

 to set out Section 74(2) and 74(10) herein:- 34. From reading of Section 74(2) , it clearly transpires that a notice under

 sub-section (1) of Section 74 is required to be issued by the proper officer

 within six months prior to the time limit specified in sub-section (10) for

 issue of order. Sub-section (10), however fixes a period of five years for

 passing an order under sub-section (9) from the due date for furnishing of

 annual return for the financial year to which the tax not paid or short paid

 etc. relates. As we have discussed hereinabove and is also a clear stand taken

 by respondents that the notice impugned was issued to the petitioners at least

 six months prior to the expiry of five years from the date due for furnishing

 the annual return for the financial years in question. 35. In the instant case, the due date for furnishing the annual return for the

 financial year 2017-2018 was extended upto 5th February 2020, whereas it

 was so extended for 2018-2019 upto 31st December 2020. In all these cases,

 the impugned show cause notices have been issued on 4th August 2024, i.e.,

 well six months prior to the expiry of five years from the due date for

 furnishing annual returns. For the financial year 2017-2018, the order

 confirming the demand in terms of sub- section 9 of Section 74 could have

 been passed by the proper officer upto 5th February 2020 and the impugned

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 20 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 show cause notice was issued on 4th August 2025 i.e., six months prior to the

 expiry of the time limit. Similarly for financial year 2018-2019, order in

 terms of sub- section 9 of Section 74 could have been passed by the proper

 officer on or before 31st December 2025 and the show cause notice was

 issued on 4th August 2024, i.e., well prior to six months of the due date. 36. Viewed from any angle, the show cause notices issued under Section

 74(1) of the CGST Act of 2017 cannot be said to be barred by limitation

 prescribed under the Section. Q. No. 4. Whether the bunching of two show cause notices
 pertaining to tax period with effect from July 2017 to April 2019 which
 falls in two financial years i.e., 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 is permissible
 under the provisions of CGST Act 2017/JKGST Act of 2017 ? 37. From the reading of entire CGST/JKGST Act, one would not find any

 prohibition for issuing one composite show cause notice for multiple

 financial years. Sections 73 and 74 would only require that: 38. If the aforesaid requirements are met, there would be no bar in

 bunching of financial years, more particularly, when the requirement of

 principles of natural justice is adequately met. 39. We are thus of considered opinion that the composite show cause

 notice cannot be held invalid if there is year-wise breakup of tax, interest and

 penalty; the allegations are not vague; each period is within limitation and

 the notice is speaking and detailed one. WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 21 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025 40. It is only in the cases where the show cause notice suffers from

 vagueness or non specificity, that bunching may be impermissible. The show

 cause notice can be found fault with on the ground of bunching only in the

 following circumstance:- 41. When we examine the show cause notices issued to the petitioners in

 the instant cases, we find that there is year-wise quantification of the liability

 and the allegations are prima facie, cogent and detailed one, giving fair

 opportunity to the assesses to respond and defend themselves. We have also

 found that the show cause notices in respect of both the periods, i.e.,

 Financial Years 2017-2018 and Financial Year 2018-2019, are not hit by the

 limitation prescribed under Section 74(2) read with Section 74(10) of the

 CGST Act, 2017. 42. Viewed thus, it cannot be said that in the instant case, the bunching of

 composite show cause notice issued in respect of tax periods falling in

 mentioned year 2017-2018 and mentioned year 2018-2019 is impermissible

 and liable to be interfered with. Q. No. 6. Availability of statutory remedy of appeal under Section
 107 of the CGST Act of 2017. WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 22 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025 43. Having found that the show cause notices issued to the petitioners are

 not prima facie assailable on the ground of want of jurisdiction of the proper

 officer, the objection taken by the respondents to the entertainability of the

 writ petition in the face of availability of equally efficacious statutory

 remedy of appeal must succeed. 44. It is trite law that "entertainability" and "maintainability" of writ

 petition under Article 226 of Constitution of India are two different

 concepts. Availability of an alternative remedy does not operate as an

 absolute bar to the maintainability of a writ petition and the rule which

 requires a party to pursue the alternative remedy provided by a statute is a

 rule of policy, convenience and discretion rather than a rule of law. Where

 the controversy is purely a legal one, involving only question of law and

 where a jurisdictional issue is raised by the assessee, nothing bars this Court

 to entertain the petition and decide the said questions, the availability of

 equally efficacious statutory remedy notwithstanding. The availability of

 alternative remedy under the statute cannot thus operate as a bar to the

 maintainability of the petition, yet a Constitutional Court may decline to

 entertain the petition and relegate the justice seeker to the remedy provided

 under the statute. 45. In Whirlpool Corporation vs. Registrar of Trade Marks [1998 (8)

 SCC 1], a two Judge Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, after surveying

 the case law on the subject, held in paragraph 15 thus: But the High Court has imposed upon itself certain
 restrictions one of which is that if an effective and
 efficacious remedy is available, the High Court would not

 WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 23 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 normally exercise its jurisdiction. But the alternative
 remedy has been consistently held by this Court not to
 operate as a bar in at least three contingencies,
 namely, where the writ petition has been filed for the
 enforcement of any of the Fundamental Rights or
 where there has been a violation of the principle of
 natural justice or where the order or proceedings are
 wholly without jurisdiction or the vires of an Act is
 challenged. There is a plethora of case-law on this point
 but to cut down this circle of forensic whirlpool, we
 would rely on some old decisions of the evolutionary era
 of the constitutional law as they still hold the field." 46. The position of law is reaffirmed in a recent judgment of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in the case of M/s. Radha Krishan Industries vs. State of

 Himachal Pradesh and Ors [AIR 2021 Supreme Court 2114]. The

 Hon'ble Supreme Court once again revisited the entire case law on the point

 and culled-out in para 27 thereof the following principles:- I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025
 of exhaustion of statutory remedies is a rule of policy,
 convenience and discretion; and (vi) In cases where there are disputed questions of fact, the
 High Court may decide to decline jurisdiction in a writ
 petition. However, if the High Court is objectively of the
 view that the nature of the controversy requires the
 exercise of its writ jurisdiction, such a view would not
 readily be interfered with. 47. In view of the settled legal position, we are of the considered opinion

 that in respect of impugned show cause notices, the petitioners have a

 remedy to file their reply, submit requisite material and contest these on

 merits, and, if, after considering the representation/reply to the show cause

 notice tendered by the petitioners, the proper officer passes an order

 confirming the demand in terms of sub-section (9) of Section 74 of CGST

 Act of 2017, the petitioners shall have a remedy of appeal before the

 Appellate Authority under Section 107 of the CGST Act of 2017. 48. In the face of availability of equally efficacious remedy provided

 under the statute, we are not inclined to entertain these petitions and rather

 would relegate the petitioners to the statutory remedies available under the CGST Act of 2017. 49. The writ petitions challenging the show cause notices simplicitor are

 otherwise premature and liable to be dismissed and others where the demand

 has been confirmed and an order in terms of sub-section (9) of Section 74 of

 the CGST Act of 2017 has been passed, the petitioners have a remedy of

 appeal provided under Section 107 . 50. Question No. 5 is, however, left open to be determined by authorities

 under the CGST Act, 2017 . 51. In view of the aforesaid discussion and the answers given to the

 questions framed, we find no merit in all these petitions, same are

 accordingly dismissed. WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 25 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025 52. Since we are dismissing the petitions either on the ground that these

 petitions are premature or that petitioners have equally efficacious

 alternative remedy under the statute, we issue following directions: 53. We further clarify that anything said by us in the judgment

 hereinabove in respect of merits of the controversy shall not be taken as an

 expression of final opinion on the matter and the proper authority or the

 appellate authority, as the case may be, shall be free to adjudicate the matter

 on its merits independently of the prima facie view we have taken on the

 merits of the case. The legal questions determined, however, shall be binding

 on the parties. WP (C) No. 1938/2024 along-with connected petitions. Mohd Altaf Nima Page 26 of 26 I attest to the accuracy
and authenticity of this
document
27.11.2025