This is the first application filed by the applicant under Section 439 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for grant of regular bail relating to Crime
 No.837/2022 registered at Police Station Rajendra Nagar, District Indore (M.P.)
 for the offence under Sections306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code of 1860.
 The applicant is in custody since 01/11/2022. 2. As per prosecution story, on 10/09/2022 one Vilas committed suicide
 upon which the concerned police station registered merg and during the
 investigation the brother-in-law of the deceased gave statements that co-accused Signature Not Verified Signed by: TEJPRAKASH VYAS Signing time: 6/27/2023 11:31:28 AM 2 Kusum Thakur used to blackmail the deceased with regard to his nude video
 that she will circulate it on social media. In furtherance of such threat he
 committed suicide. The allegation against the present applicant is that he also
 has edited the aforesaid video. Upon such incident the offence under Section
 306 of IPC was registered and on investigation, it is found that in the mobile of
 deceased some unknown numbers were traced and they were found to be
 located at Bharatpur, Rajasthan, which were related to the present applicant.
 Accordingly, offence has been registered. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is an
 innocent person and he has been falsely implicated in this offence. He is in

 custody since 01/11/2022. There is no legal evidence available on record to
 connect the applicant with the aforementioned offence. No ingredient of Section
 306 and 107 of IPC are established against the present applicant. Applicant was
 the only driver in the vehicle, which was used by the other co-accused persons
 for their travelling. Investigation is over and charge sheet has been filed.
 Applicant is the permanent resident of District Bharatpur (Rajasthan) and final
 conclusion of the trial is likely to take sufficient long time. Under the above
 circumstances, prayer for grant of bail may be considered on such terms and
 conditions, as this Court deems fit and proper. 4. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent / State opposes the bail
 application and prays for its rejection by submitting that sufficient evidence has
 been found against the present applicant. Applicant is the resident of out of
 State and if he is enlarged on bail, he may be absconded. Other co-accused
 persons are still absconding in the matter. Hence, he prays that applicant is not
 entitled to be enlarged on bail. 5. Perused the impugned order of the trial Court as well as the case diary. 6. After considering all the facts and circumstances of the case, nature
 and gravity of offence, arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the
 applicant and also taking note of the fact that the allegation against the present
 applicant is that he has edited the concerned obscene video. Bail applications of
 co-accused Harun and Jeeshan have been dismissed by this Court vide order
 dated 24/01/2023 passed in M.Cr.C.Nos.3961/2023 and 1795/2023 in the
 similar circumstances. Other co-accused persons are still absconding. 7. In view of the aforesaid, without commenting upon the merits of the
 case, this Court is not inclined to grant bail to the applicant. Accordingly, the
 first bail application preferred under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. is hereby
 dismissed. Certified copy as per rules. (ANIL VERMA)
 JUDGE
 Tej Signature Not Verified Signed by: TEJPRAKASH VYAS Signing time: 6/27/2023 11:31:28 AM