[1] By means of filing this application under Section

482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, owner of the

offending vehicle has sought for quashing the order dated

29.07.2022 passed by the learned Special Judge (NDPS),

Sepahijala District, Bishalgarh in case No. Special (NDPS)

16 of 2022 whereby the learned Special Judge has 2 declined to release the offending vehicle in favour of the

owner. [2] The owner has sought for release of the vehicle

on the ground of his innocence claiming that he had no

idea about the misuse of his vehicle by the driver.

[3] On behalf of the prosecution, it was submitted

before the learned trial court that an extra chamber was

made in the cabin of the vehicle for concealing the

contraband which was not possible without the knowledge

and connivance of the owner. The learned PP, therefore,

argued before the trial court that owner's plea of

innocence was not at all believable. The learned trial court

having considered the facts and given circumstances of the

case rejected the claim of the owner with the following

observations: [4] The petitioner, being the owner of the offending

vehicle, has challenged the said order of the trial court by

filing this petition. [5] The relevant facts necessary for disposal of the

case, are as under: Srikanta Chakraborty, SI of Police of

Bisramganja Police Station lodged a suo moto written FIR

with the Officer In Charge of his police station on 27.

01.2022, alleging inter alia, that pursuant to a secret

information he spotted the truck bearing registration No.

PB 13 U 9843 at Bisramganj on its way from Melaghar at

around 7.30 a.m on 27.01.2022. The vehicle along with its

driver was detained and a search was carried out in the

said vehicle. During the search, 215 kg dried 'ganja' in

plastic packets was recovered from the vehicle in presence

of the SDPO and cash currency and also 2 fake registration

plates were also recovered from the possession of the 4 driver of the vehicle. BRG P.S. case No.2022 BRG 007

under Sections 20(b)(iii)(c) , 25 , 27 and 29 , NDPS Act was

registered against the driver and the vehicle was seized by

drawing a formal seizure list. [6] After investigation, charge sheet No.17 of 2022

dated 21.06.2022 was filed against accused Md.

Khushnoor Alam under various provisions of the NDPS Act as well as for the violation of different provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act . It has been indicated in the charge

sheet that during investigation, police has come to know

that registered owner of the vehicle is Md. Abdul Kalim son

of Md. Jan of Shivaishingpur of PS-Mohaddinnagar,

Samstipur, Bihar and actual registration No. of the vehicle

is BR06G7004. At the time of committing the offence

driver fitted and displayed fake registration No.PB-13-U-

9843. [7] Owner Abdul Kalim filed a petition before the

learned trial court along with an affidavit sworn before the

notary on 08.07.2022 for release of the offending vehicle. 5 He claimed before the trial court that he was the

registered owner of the truck bearing registration

No.BR06G7004 Chassis No-MAT426031A2E12053 & Engine

No.01E62880059 which was detained by police for carrying

the contraband. It was also claimed by the owner that all

the documents of the vehicle were in his possession and

he had the National permit for plying the vehicle across the

country and when the vehicle was detained by police it was

returning after delivery of a valid consignment. He had no

idea about the fact that the driver was carrying dried ganja

in his vehicle. Owner claimed that only after delivery of the

consignment the driver fitted and displayed the fake

registration plate on the vehicle beyond his knowledge. He

claimed that he was totally unaware of the illegal activities

done by the driver of his vehicle. He, therefore, claimed for

release of his vehicle. [8] As stated above, the learned Special Judge

disbelieved the contention of the owner and declined to

release his vehicle which has been challenged before this

court. [9] Heard Mr. S.Lodh, learned counsel appearing

for the petitioner. Also heard Mr. Ratan Datta, learned PP

appearing for the State respondent along with Mr.

S.Debnath, Addl. PP. [10] It is contended by Mr. Lodh learned advocate

that the owner of the vehicle cannot be deprived of his

livelihood for no fault of him. Counsel has contended that

after seizure, the vehicle has been kept under open sky at

the police station which has already caused irreparable

damage to the vehicle. Counsel submits that law

empowers the court to release the vehicle in favour of its

true owner on his furnishing appropriate security and

under the terms and conditions, as the court may deem fit

and proper. In support of his contention learned counsel

has referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in the

case of Sunderbhai Ambalal Desai Vs. State of

Gujarat reported in (2002)10 SCC 283 and judgment

dated 16.03.2018 passed by this court in Crl.Petn No.08 of

2018 and judgment dated 14.07.2022 passed by this court

in Crl.Petn No.32 of 2022. Counsel submits that the driver 7 manufactured fake number plates and carried contraband

in the said vehicle beyond the knowledge of the petitioner

for which petitioner cannot be held liable and deprived of

his livelihood by way of detaining his vehicle for such a

long period of time without any fault of him. Counsel

therefore, urges the court to release the vehicle in favour

of the petitioner owner. [11] Mr.Ratan Datta, learned PP on the other hand

vehemently opposes the petition contending that the

owner cannot plead innocence particularly when it has

been established that a chamber was made in the cabin of

the vehicle for carrying such contraband. Counsel contends

that in the given circumstances of the case, it is absolutely

clear that such arrangements in the vehicle were made

with the knowledge and connivance of the owner and as

such the offending vehicle is liable to confiscation under

the law and the owner cannot claim its release on the plea

of innocence. [12] In support of his contention counsel has relied

on the order dated 10.01.2020 passed by this court in Crl.

Petn No.01 of 2020 in which release of the offending

vehicle was declined by this court viewing as under: On the other hand, learned Public Prosecutor drew my
 attention to the provisions contained in Sections 60 and 63 of the NDPS Act to contend that the vehicle is liable
 to be confiscated in case the offence is proved against
 the petitioner. He also brought to my notice the decision
 of learned Single Judge of this Court in Criminal Petition
 No.09 of 2018 in case of Sri Sankar Das vrs. The State of
 Tripura dated 16.03.2018 in which in the context of
 release of vehicle seized during investigation into NDPS
 offence came up for consideration. Present is a case where the petitioner himself, the
 owner of the vehicle was intercepted and as per the
 prosecution case, was found to be in possession of
 small quantity of narcotic drug. In that view of the
 matter, the vehicle if eventually the charge is proved, is
 liable for confiscation. I do not, therefore, find it
 appropriate to release the vehicle pending further
 investigation and trial. I am conscious that the Supreme
 Court in case of General Insurance Council and others
 vrs. State of Andhra Pradesh, reported in (2010) 6 SCC
 786 has highlighted that a seized vehicle would decay
 by the time the trial is over and, therefore, subject to
 suitable conditions the same should ordinarily be
 released. However, in the present case the seized motor
 vehicle is not merely a muddamal article but a means of 9 transportation of banned drugs liable to be confiscated
 in case the conviction is recorded. Petition is, therefore, dismissed." [13] Learned PP has also relied on the order dated

13.02.2020 passed by this court in Crl.Petn No. 07 of 2020

wherein this court viewed as under: [14] It is contended by Mr. Datta, learned PP that

the owner of the vehicle should have come and sought for

release of the vehicle within 01 month of its seizure in

terms of the law. But he has come after a long lapse of 10 time and that too without any genuine ground. Counsel

therefore, submits that plea of the owner is not

acceptable. [15] At the end, Mr. Datta learned PP submits that if

the court under any circumstance decides to release the

vehicle in favour of the owner, the same may be done

asking the owner to furnish bank guarantee of adequate

amount. In support of his contention counsel has relied on

the order dated 20.09.2022 passed by this court in CrL.

Petn No.43 of 2022 where the owner was asked to furnish

bank guarantee to obtain release of his vehicle.

[16] The relevant provisions which deal with the

present situation is Section 60(3) of the NDPS Act which

provides as under: charge of the animal or conveyance and that each 11 of them had taken all reasonable precautions
 against such use." [17] Section 63 of the NDPS Act provides the

procedure relating to confiscation. For purpose of

reference, the relevant statutory provisions are extracted

hereunder: [19] The law as laid down in Sunderbhai Ambalal

Desai Vs. State of Gujarat has been restated in General

Insurance Council and others vs. State of Andhra

Pradesh , reported in (2010) 6 SCC 786. In General

Insurance Council (supra) the apex court has observed

that: The aforesaid directions as referred in General

Insurance Council (supra) encompass the disposal of the

seized vehicle. In the case in hand, the Special Judge did 14 not allow the vehicle to be released on furnishing adequate

security and conditions. [20] Mr.Lodh learned counsel of the petitioner has

strenuously argued that the circumstances brought before

the court would clearly demonstrate that the owner did not

have any knowledge that his vehicle was used for carrying

narcotic substances. Counsel contended that in similar

circumstances in the case of Kishan Singh Vs. State of

Tripura [Crl. Petn No. 8 of 2018] this court released the

offending vehicle on bail in favour of the petitioner owner

viewing as under: [21] Relying on the decision of this court in the case

of Balkrishna Mishra vs. State of Tripura in Crl.Petn

No. 32 of 2022, counsel of the petitioner contends that this

court by order dated 14.07.2022 in the said case has

viewed that the owner of the vehicle may file an 17 application for release of his vehicle on bail at any stage of

the proceeding or even during the proceeding of

confiscation. [22] Mr.Lodh learned counsel, has therefore, argued

that there is no embargo in releasing the vehicle in favour

of the owner on bail after obtaining appropriate security

from him as the court may deem fit and proper.

[23] With regard to the submission of Mr.R.Datta,

learned PP, for asking the owner to furnishing bank

guarantee in case his claim is considered by the court,

Mr.Lodh, learned counsel, submits that the owner whose

only vehicle has been detained for such a long period of

time would not be unable to provide bank guarantee.

[24] In the case of Sunderbhai Ambalal Desai Vs

State of Gujarat (supra) the apex court has succinctly

held that whatever be the situation, it is not of any use to

keep such seized vehicle at the police stations for a long

period. It is for the Magistrate to pass appropriate orders

immediately by taking appropriate bond and guarantee as 18 well as security for return of the said vehicles, if required

at any point of time (para 17). As discussed, the law laid

down in Sunderbhai Amalal Desai (supra), has been

reinstated in the General Insurance Council and

Others Versus State of Andhra Pradesh and

Others (supra). [25] With regard to the contention of the learned PP

that the owner is not entitled to release of the vehicle as

he has not come forward within 30 days from the date of

seizure of the vehicle, Mr.Lodh learned counsel of the

petitioner has relied on the decision of this court in the

case of Balkrishna (supra) wherein this court has viewed

as under: 9. The above proposition of law, in my opinion,
does not support the plea of the State-respondent
that the owner of the vehicle has to file an
application for releasing the vehicle on bail within
30 days. What the court has meant to say, that, in
case no owner comes forward to claim the
ownership of the vehicle within 30 days, then, the
court may pass an order directing the Drug
Disposal Committee for disposal of the vehicle by
sale. In no way it bars the owner to approach the
court and file an application for releasing the
vehicle after expiry of 30 days. 10. In the light of above analysis; on law,
particularly, the proviso of sub-section (2) of Section 63 of the NDPS Act, in my opinion, the
learned Special Judge has misconstrued the
judgment of this court in Kishan Singh (supra) qua 20 Section 63 of the NDPS Act. Accordingly, the
 learned Special Judge has committed an error of
 law in rejecting the application of the petitioner for
 releasing the vehicle in question on bail. As a
 corollary, the owner of the vehicle may file an
 application for bail at any stage of the proceeding
 or even during the proceeding of confiscation" [28] The owner is directed to submit the bail bond

 along with the original documents of the vehicle before the

 trial court. Learned trial judge will verify the documents

 and having been satisfied about the authenticity of his

 claim about the ownership of the vehicle and suitability of

 each of the sureties including their financial capability to

 pay the penalty in the event of owner's default, shall issue

 release order of the vehicle under the terms and conditions

 as stated above. Resultantly, the petition stands allowed and the

 case is disposed of. There shall be no order as to cost. JUDGE
Saikat Sarma