SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Okendra Rana- influencer with 80k+ followers who glorify sexual harrasment and influences tens of thousands of young minds to become potential sexual harrasers and Rapists. 
DATE: 2024-08-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ek3bp7/okendra_rana_influencer_with_80k_followers_who/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is what happens when you bring glory to this country-you receive rape threats. It's no wonder average women in this country are not safe if even Olympic-winning shooters and athletes have to endure this.

From slide 1-4 is a faceless troll giving rape threat for Olympian Manu Bhaker and from slide 5-8 is an Instragram influencer who glorify sexual harrasment and inspires tens of thousands of young minds to become like this. 

These things don't happen in a vacuum. Faceless trolls are inspired by figures like Okendra Rana, who has a history of glorifying those accused of sexual harassment and making indecent and vulgar comments about sexually harassed women, including underage minors, simply because the accused are from his community. These trolls draw their inspiration from people like him. Rana creates video edits glorifying sexual harassment accused, which garner hundreds of thousands of views. Imagine the influence this has on young minds.

Although the comment by Okendra Rana in slide (5) is old, pointed at Wrestlers and not related to Manu Bhaker recently, but I won't be surprised if scums like him will do it to Manu or any other women in future again. These scums like Okendra who make vulgar comments for sexually harrased women represent no community but these these scums have good enough hand in developing such vile mentalities and tendencies which are destroying the youth of India by glorifying and inspiring them to become sexual harrasers and Rapists. These dark spots on our society needs to to be put to justice which are destroying this society.

For example, consider this video posted by Okendra Rana that glorifies sexual harassment accused Brij Bhushan Singh: [Video by Okendra Rana called out by influencers.](https://np.reddit.com/r/Haryana/s/YGVYIK1Vwn)

Okendra Rana deleted this video when called out by other influencers for glorifying sexual harassment. Imagine an influencer with over 80,000 followers promoting such behavior, potentially creating tens of thousands of new sexual harassers and rapists who could target your family members.

Problems don't start out of nowhere, police will catch this face less troll on twitter tomorrow but scums like Okendra Rana will contribute to make 100s and 1000s more of these future sexual harrasers and Rapists.

Yesterday it was female wrestlers, today it's our champion Manu, and tomorrow it could be your family members or even you. Don't let this issue slide-stop the culture of creating new sexual harassers and rapists from the root. Pressure the government to take action and arrest those responsible for the safety of our champions and your loved ones.

Share this and help put such scum influencers like Okendra Rana behind bars in jail. 🙏