28.05.2009

: MUKUL MUDGAL,J. 1. This appeal bearing RFA (OS) No.25/2006 arises out of the judgment of

the learned Single Judge dated 13th January, 2006 in Suit No. 1480/2002. 2. Since certain common issues arise in this appeal and the other two

appeals i.e. FAO (OS) No. 326/2007 filed by Dart Industries Inc. and FAO

(OS) No. 447/2008 filed by Mattel Inc., on the question of interpretation of RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 2 of 72 Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act read with Section 2(d) of the Designs Act

and Section 15(2) of the Copyright Act and their interplay with each other, we

have permitted the parties in the connected appeals also to make submissions

on the common legal principles arising in these appeals. However, the

aforesaid two appeals bearing FAO(OS) Nos. 326/2007 and 447/2008 will be

taken up for hearing on facts and other pleas after the pronouncement of the

judgment in the present appeal bearing RFA(OS) No. 25/2006 in the appeal

titled Microfibres v. Girdhar & Co. and Anr . 3. The appellant manufactures and sells upholstery fabrics with designs

derived from the original and unique artistic works either conceptualized or

drawn by its employees or by assignation of the copyright in such artistic

works to the appellant by the original artists. 4. The respondents are also manufacturers of upholstery fabrics and the

learned Single Judge in the judgment challenged in this court has held that the

upholstery fabrics of the respondent do incorporate/reflect the designs founded

upon the appellant's artistic works or a substantial reproduction thereof. 5. The grievance of the appellant arises from the premise that the learned

Single Judge held that the designs in question were capable of being registered

under the Designs Act, 2000 and consequently the appellant was not entitled to

seek protection under the copyright law as the designs had not been registered RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 3 of 72 under the Design's Act. 6. The learned Single Judge held as follows: - 7. It has been submitted on behalf of the appellant that the above finding of

the learned Single Judge that the works of the appellant were not original

artistic works within the definition of Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act

proceeds on the misappreciation of law and seeks to draw an artificial

distinction between those works which are pure artistic works and those which

are not. In particular, he has questioned the finding of the learned Single Judge

that the artistic work in question does not have the ability to stand by itself as a

piece of art and in fact has no independent existence in itself. It has been

contended that the exclusion of an ‗artistic work' as defined in Section 2(c) of

the Copyright Act from the definition of ‗design' under Section 2(d) of the

Designs Act, 2000 is meant to exclude the original artistic work. 8. The following three conclusions of the learned Single Judge have been

questioned in this appeal:- (para 62 of the impugned judgment) (ii) The exclusion of an ‗artistic work' as defined in section 2(c) of the RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 7 of 72 Copyright Act from the definition of ‗design' under Section 2(d) of the Designs Act, 2000 is only meant to exclude the nature of

 artistic works like painting of M.F. Hussain (para 65 of the

 impugned judgment). (iii) The application of mind and skill is not being denied nor the fact

 that the respondents have copied the same, but that would still not

 amount to the works in question being labeled as ‗artistic works'

 within the definition of Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act and,

 thus, the protection is not available under the Copyright Act (para

 62 of the impugned judgment). 9. The appellant through Senior Counsel Sh. Raju Ramachandran

submitted as follows: - b. The learned Single Judge found that the works in question were

 capable of being registered under the designs law as the Designs Act classification includes ‗fabrics' as articles whose design can be

 registered. However, this finding fails to take note of the fact that it

 is the nature of the work which determines the intellectual property

 rights vested therein and not merely the fact that it falls under the

 classification of the Designs Act or the Trade Marks Act . Even the

 Trade Marks Act provided for registration of fabrics/textiles in Class 24. What was required to determine the capacity of being registered

 under the Designs Act was not whether the object fell into the

 classification within the Designs Act , but whether the work in

 question satisfied the substantive requirements for registration as a

 ‗design'. c. The phrase ‗capable of being registered' must be understood as

 referring to designs possessing, at the time of being made, such

 essential characteristics which qualify them as ‗designs' under the Designs Act, 2000 i.e. being novel and original as opposed to merely RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 9 of 72 original as required under the Copyright Act, 1957 . The Copyright

 Act requirement was merely the originality of the work. For a work

 to be within the meaning of ‗capable of being registered', it must

 satisfy the definition of ‗design' as well as the test of the work being

 novel or original and of it being sufficiently distinguishable from

 known designs or combination of known designs. While the learned

 Single Judge noted the respondents submission to the following

 effect ―..designs in use are built around permutations and

 combinations of a limited number of motifs/limitations from various

 sources and requiring very little by way of distinguishing variations

 to claim originality", yet he went on to hold that the said works are

 capable of being registered as designs and the two conclusions are

 incompatible. It is also found erroneously by the learned Single

 Judge that there is an element of labour and skill applied to a

 particular pattern of work in question which clearly required original

 artistic works and nevertheless a finding was made that the artistic

 works in question are not ‗original artistic works'.

 d. The operation of Section 15(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957 does not

 exclude from the ambit of copyright protection, the

 subject/underlying artistic works. Consequently, the original RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 10 of 72 underlying paintings created and acquired/owned by the appellant

 which were applied to the textiles with certain modifications do fall

 within the meaning of ‗original artistic works' defined under Section

 2(c) of the Copyright Act, 1957 and thus entitled to copyright

 protection. In fact, such works were clearly and expressly excluded

 from the definition of ‗design' in Section 2(d) of the Designs Act.

 e. The paintings are either purchased from a third party or created

 inhouse by the appellant, and when an artistic work is purchased from

 a third party, a Certificate of Authenticity is obtained from the author

 of that painting, declaring that the copyright and the artistic work is

 assigned by the owner to the appellant. The original paintings

 undergo a series of processes and adaptations for them to be applied

 to fabrics, and each of these paintings and the modified drawings are

 separately and independently entitled to protection as an ‗artistic

 work' under the Copyright Act, 1957 . The intermediate paintings

 leading to the final product satisfy all the requisites of ‗artistic works'

 and have independent existence by themselves as opposed to

 technical/engineering drawings solely created for the purposes of

 production of a corresponding product, which were no more than

 instructions for manufacturing applied to the product in question to RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 11 of 72 which they may have been applied. The application of adaptations

 and modifications to such artistic works on fabrics, may under Section 15(2) of the Copyright Act, extinguish the copyright

 protection therein after 50 productions, but does not affect the

 copyright protection afforded to the original work as ‗the artistic

 work'. It also does not affect the existence of separate copyright in

 any independent work which may have been used in the context of

 the creation of a particular product. The copyright in the

 underlying/original artistic work would continue to subsist and can be

 enforced by the copyright owner. f. The respondents' fabrics being colorable imitations or substantially

 similar copies of the original underlying modified paintings of the

 appellant amounted to infringement of the artistic copyright therein.

 This is particularly so when inspite of the work of the respondent

 being claimed to be independent, no details of such original

 independent work were forthcoming. Reliance was placed on the

 judgment in the case of Rajesh Masrani vs. Tahiliani Designs Pvt.

 Ltd. [2009 (39) PTC 21 (Del.)] which held that Section 2(d) of the

 Designs Act, 2000 does not include any artistic work as defined in Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act. It was also held in the above RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 12 of 72 judgment that it is evident from the definition of ‗design' under the Designs Act, 2000 that the artistic work as defined in Section 2(c) of

 the Copyright Act, 1957 is excluded if any party is able to bring his

 case within the framework of Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act, 1957

 while claiming the copyright. In such a situation, the suit for

 infringement is maintainable. g. Lastly, the plea of unfair competition which was evident from the

 almost identical product of the respondent was lost sight of. The

 finding of the learned Single Judge clearly demonstrated that the

 respondent having copied the artistic work of the appellant were not

 entitled to protection and such an interpretation has led to the blatant

 act of copying being permitted on account of mere technicalities. It

 has also been submitted that in the criminal proceedings instituted by

 the appellant under Section 63 of the Copyright Act, the Additional

 Chief Metropolitan Magistrate has rejected the report of the

 Investigating Officer stating that no case was made out on the

 following findings: - would also affect the appeals filed by his client. 12. He submitted that his client in the first case is a manufacturer of plastic

utility products. The process involved is the preparation of the drawing which

is called the first stage which then leads to the production of mould/engraving

which is the second stage and from the said mould/engraving, the final product

emerges, which is the third stage. 13. As far as the second case of Mattel is concerned, he submitted that the

stage of mould/engraving is not there and straightaway from the drawing the

product emerges. He further submitted that a design is related to aesthetics and

visual features and utility part of the product relates to, at best, the patent and

not the design law. He submitted that Section 14(c) of the Copyright Act

defines the rights of an owner of a Copyright in an artistic work within the

meaning of Copyright Act . By placing reliance on Section 14(c) (i) , he

submitted that such a copyright owner has a right to reproduce the work either

in two-dimensional or three-dimensional products. Section 2(c) which defines

‗artistic works' covered specifically both drawings and engravings. The RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 16 of 72 offending product of the respondent, was made by a process of reverse

engineering which would involve the taking up of the product, creating a

mould from it and finally a drawing. That the moulds and the drawings of the

appellant are copyright protectable under the Copyright Act and could not be,

and are incapable of forming part of the design registration. Inter alia he

submitted that the mould and the drawing do not appeal to the eye as required

under Section 2(d) of the Designs Act. Reliance was placed on Section 15(1) read with Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act to submit that upon the registration

of a design the loss of copyright is restricted to the stage III i.e. the eventual

product. Section 15(1) does not contemplate stages I and II, that is, the

drawing and the mould not being protected under the Copyright Act . Section

15 of the Copyright Act in its entirety does not affect stages I and II and will

apply to only those cases, which are design registrable and copyright

registrable. That in so far as Section 15 (1) is concerned, the copyright is lost

immediately upon the registration under the Designs Act and the exclusion

under S.15(2) covers the cases which are registrable under the Designs Act and

the product is produced 50 times. Reference was made to Section 2(d) of the

Designs Act and reliance was placed upon a judgment in Ahuja Intellectual

Property Cases Vol.3 NO.5, August 1998 Smithkine Beecham Consumer

Health Care vs. Eden Cosmetics Ltd. RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 17 of 72 14. The learned counsel for the respondent no.2, Sh. Rajender Kumar

submitted as under: - 15. Mr. Prashanto Chandra Sen, who appeared on behalf of the respondent RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 23 of 72 no.1 submitted as follows: - 16. Mr. Sanjay Jain, the learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondent no.1 in FAO (OS) No.326/2007 titled as DART Industries Inc. &

Anr. v. Techno Plast & Ors. , has made the following submissions in respect of

the interplay of the Designs Act and the Copyright Act: - Consequently, once such artistic work is put to an industrial application,

 the intent of the author at the initial/conceptual stage becomes immaterial

 and copyright can only be preserved under the second category governed

 by the Copyright Act , even though the expression ‗design' is not

 specifically used under Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act. The ‗design'

 is certainly an artistic work at the initial stage and depending upon its

 application acquires protection of either the Copyright Act or the Designs Act if the industrial application is resorted to. This is evident

 from the exclusion embodied in Section 2(d) of the Designs Act.

 d. Since in the case of Microfibre Inc and Dart Industries Inc, it has been

 stated in the plaint that the artistic works in question were

 created/conceived by the in-house employees/promoters for the sole and

 pre-determined purpose of using the same as designs, meant for

 industrial application, the creation of the artistic work constitutes an

 integral part of a pre-programmed ‗manufacturing process'. There is an

 industrial application and its segregation into two or three stages such as

 drawing/painting/moulding is not feasible under the regime of the RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 31 of 72 Copyright and/or the Designs Act . e. Section 2(j) of the Designs Act recognizes the existence of proprietary

 rights in a new or original design and as per Section 2(g) of the Designs

 Act, ―originality‖ in relation to a design means as originating from the

 author of such design. Consequently, the expression ‗appeal to and

 judged solely by the eye' occurring in Section 2(d) does not necessarily

 connote any aesthetic beauty in the classical sense but merely refer to

 such artistic works which have the capacity to enhance decorative value

 or visual appeal when applied to a finished article and can be distinctly

 perceived through human eye as various features described in Section

 2(d) of the Designs Act i.e. (a) shape (b) configuration (c) ornament

 and/or (d) composition of lines or colours. f. The goods falling in all the above three categories fall under the

 classification of the Designs Act and in fact, in the Tupperware case, the

 plaintiffs had got a registration under the Designs Act .

 g. The learned counsel further submitted that the second of the two

 categories of artistic works are those works, which to begin with, were

 not put to industrial application and would be covered under the

 definition of Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act. Further, if such an

 artistic work is put to industrial use as defined in Section 15(2) by the RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 32 of 72 industrial application of 50 replications, it then loses its copyright

 protection and no protection is then available to such artistic work under

 the Copyright Act . Such extinguishment of copyright protection under Section 15(2) of the Copyright Act, once applied to final product as a

 design, whether through the conversion of a drawing into a two

 dimensional product or the conversion of drawing to moulding,

 eventually resulting in three-dimensional product, nevertheless, does not

 provide any copyright protection to the intermediate stages such as

 drawing/painting/moulding. h. Once an artistic work extinguishes, it loses the protective cover of the Copyright Act . As per application of Section 15(2) the protection under

 the Copyright Act ceases forever. The protection under Section 15(2) of

 the Copyright Act is not available at the initial stage of such artistic

 work, which at the threshold level are created for industrial application

 by obtaining registration under the Designs Act and such works stand

 covered by Section 15(1) of the Copyright Act. Such category of artistic

 work is completely excluded from the coverage under the Copyright Act at the threshold and even under the meaning of Section 2(c) of the

 Copyright Act, no protection is available to such works at any stage as

 the process of obtaining registration under the Designs Act is a clear RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 33 of 72 intention of abandoning the protection of the Copyright Act .

 Consequently, the two-stage theory for the underlying copyright

 coverage cannot apply as evident from perusal of Section 15(2) of the

 Copyright Act. i. Consequently, an artistic work falls in the basket of Designs Act by

 being created to be used as a design only; though not originally created

 to be used as design but subsequently relegated or pushed to be used as a

 design for being applied on a finished article after being produced more

 than 50 times. j. It is significant that the definition of artistic work in Section 2(c) of the

 Copyright Act does not use the expression ‗design' as a variant or

 constituent of artistic work. k. Once the ‗design' as a concept or as a variant is conspicuous by its

 absence from the definition of ‗artistic work' under the Copyright Act , it

 is clear that a design cannot be de-structured or de-constructed by

 reverse engineering or otherwise to be an ‗artistic work' within the

 meaning of Copyright Act . l. However, an artistic work can be lifted to the level of design under Section 15(2) of the Copyright Act. This is evident from the definition

 of ‗design' under the Designs Act which removes all doubts and RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 34 of 72 possibilities of overlapping or an equivocal interpretation of the

 expression ‗design' in the context of an ‗artistic work' and excludes

 those artistic works from its ambit which has not been (a) created or (b)

 used as a design and then proceeds to confer copyright on such artistic

 works under Chapter III of the Designs Act . 17. Dr. Singhvi, the learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondents in FAO(OS) No.447/2008 titled as Mattel Inc. v. Jayant Agarwalla

& Ors. , submitted as follows: - The three levels of protection suggested by Mr. Jaitley, the learned

Senior Counsel, i.e. the sketch, mould and product seeks to circumvent the

legislative intent by achieving what is prohibited directly; that is enlarging the

monopoly of commercial products. Every design is traceable to a mould or a drawing and the only test which

needs to be applied is the intent of creating the mould.

IV. It is evident that the intent of making the mould is not to sell the mould

as a stand alone product on the article on which the mould or design would be

applied. Thus, a drawing or mould eventually merges into an article and

becomes part of the product and the copyright in the drawing or mould may

remain as per the Copyright Act, 1957 but would stand reduced for the mould

or drawing as applied to an article to 15 years, due to the commercial

production and the emerging of the drawing and the mould into article. It is RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 39 of 72 also submitted that if any monopoly right over the article is lost, then the stages

antecedent to the article has no value. V. The design proponent once having elected to produce the article

commercially cannot claim the larger period of copyright protection as once a

right holder chooses to have patent/design right over an article then by virtue of

operation of doctrine of election, the indirect right of copy over the drawings is

abandoned/foregone by a right holder. This position was held in the case of

Catnic Components Ltd. vs. Hill & Smith Ltd. (1978) F.S.R. Vol.4 405.

VI. Non-application of the doctrine of election would result in term of

inconsistency that is the protection of design right for a period of more than 15

years. The claim of the appellant's in Dart Industries Inc. and Mattel Inc. are

inconsistent with the copyright protection of 15 years by virtue of the Designs

Act, 2000 and would amount to extending the copyright to the term of the

lifetime of the author plus 60 years. VII. The article is to be seen as a whole and the appeal of the article, subject

matter of the design protection forms part of the article itself and hence cannot

be protected as separate work of art. 18. In his rejoinder arguments Mr. Praveen Anand has argued that there is a

vital difference between the subject matter of copyright and design protection.

I. He has tabulated the essential features of copyright and design protection RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 40 of 72 as follows: II. He submits that the election theory or intention test, as is propounded by

the respondents is flawed. He submits that the election theory that the creator

of an artistic work loses his copyright upon application of the work to an article

or if the artistic work is created with the intention of being used as a design is

improper and that it would lead to inequitable situations. The reasons for this

submission of his are: RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 41 of 72 Illustration: For instance, if ―A‖ creates an artistic work in the year 2001 and

releases it in an art gallery. In 2003, the work is applied to an article. Under the interpretations of the respondents, ―A‖ will not be entitled to

copyright protection under Section 15 (2) of the Copyright Act, 1957. ―A‖ will also not be entitled to design protection under Section 19(1) (b) of the Designs Act, 2000, as the ―design‖ has been published by the exhibition

of the artistic work in the art gallery in 2001

 This will lead to an anomalous situation, where artists would be deprived

of both rights. (b) The application of the artistic work may be the thought of subsequent

assignee and not the original artist; and (c) The article to which the work is applied may itself come into existence in

future (e.g. KINDLE by Amazon) and may not be in existence at the time the

artistic work was created. III. Mr. Anand submits that the extension of rights can arise only on the

happening of two events which are as under: VI. He submits that he would make his submissions with regard to the

meaning of an ―article‖ and on the scope of Section 2 (d) on the Specific

Reference to the facts of the Mattel Inc. 's case and submissions in that respect

has not been made as at present. 19. The relevant statutory provisions are as follows: - THE DESIGNS ACT, 2000 THE COPYRIGHT ACT, 1957 Section 2(d) , The Designs Act, 2000 Section 2(c) , The Copyright Act, 1957 (c) "artistic work" means,-- „„design‟‟ means only the features of
 shape, configuration, pattern, (i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing
 (including a diagram, map, chart or
 ornament or composition of lines or plan), an engraving or a photograph,
 colours applied to any article whether whether or not any such work
 in two dimensional or three possesses artistic quality;
 dimensional or in both forms, by an
 industrial process or means, whether (ii) a work of architecture; RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 44 of 72 manual, mechanical or chemical, and
 separate or combined, which in the
 finished article appeal to and are (iii) any other work of artistic
 judged solely by the eye; but does not craftsmanship;
 include any mode or principle of
 construction or anything which is in
 substance a mere mechanical device,
 and does not include any trade mark
 as defined in clause (v) of sub-section
 (1) of Section 2 of the Trade and
 Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 or
 property mark as defined in Section
 479 of the Indian Penal Code or any
 artistic work as defined in clause (c)
 of Section 2 of the Copyright Act,
 1957; Section 13 (2) (i) The Copyright Act, Section 2(g) The Design Act, 2000 1957

 13 (2) (i) in the case of a published
„„original‟‟, in relation to a design, means work, the work is first published in
 originating from the author of such India, or where the work is first
 design and includes the cases which published outside India, the author is at
 though old in themselves yet are new in the date of such publication, or in a case
 their application; where the author was dead at that date,
 was at the time of his death, a citizen of
 India; Section 2(j) The Design Act, 2000 : Section 15 The Copyright Act, 1967

 Special provision regarding copyright in
„„proprietor of a new or original designs registered or capable of being
 design‟‟,-- registered under the Designs Act, 1911 . (2) Copyright shall not subsist under (i) where the author of the this Act in any design which is
 design, for good consideration, registered under the Designs Act, 1911 executes the work for some other (2 of 1911). person, means the person for
 whom the design is so executed; (3) Copyright in any design, which is
 capable of being registered under the (ii) where any person acquires Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911), but
 the design or the right to apply the which has not been so registered, shall
 design to any article, either cease as soon as any article to which the
 design has been applied has been
 exclusively of any other person or reproduced more than fifty times by an
 otherwise, means, in the respect industrial process by the owner of the RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 45 of 72 copyright or, with his licence, by any
 other person. (iii) and to the extent in and to
 which the design or right has been
 so acquired, the person by whom
 the design or right is so acquired; and in any other case, means the author
 of the design; and where the property in
 or the right to apply, the design has
 devolved from the original proprietor
 upon any other person, includes that
 other person. Section 16 (The Copyright Act, 1957) Section 4 . (The Design Act, 2000 ) : No copyright except as provided in this
Prohibition of registration of certain Act.--No person shall be entitled to
designs.--A design which-- copyright or any similar right in any
 work, whether published or unpublished, (a) is not new or original; or otherwise than under and in accordance
 with the provisions of this Act or of any (b) has been disclosed to the other law for the time being in force, but
 public any where in India or in any nothing in this section shall be construed
 other country by publication in as abrogating any right or jurisdiction to
 tangible form or by use or in any restrain a breach of trust or confidence.
 other way prior to the filing date, or
 where applicable, the priority date of
 the application for registration; or (c) is not significantly
 distinguishable from known designs
 or combination of known designs; or (d) comprises or contains
 scandalous or obscene matter, Section 12 (The Designs Act, 2000) : Section 40 (a) (The Copyright Act,
 1957)
Restoration of lapsed designs.--(1)
Where a design has ceased to have effect Power to extend copyright to foreign
by reason of failure to pay the fee for the works.-- extension of copyright under sub- section 40 (a) to work first published in
(2) of Section 11 , the proprietor of such any territory outside India to which
design or his legal representative and the order relates in like manner as if
where the design was held by two or they were first published within
more persons jointly, then, with the leave India; RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 46 of 72 of the Controller one or more of them
without joining the others, may, within
one year from the date on which the
design ceased to have effect, make an
application for the restoration of the
design in the prescribed manner on
payment of such fee as may be
prescribed. (2) An application under this section shall
contain a statement, verified in the
prescribed manner, fully setting out the
circumstances which led to the failure to
pay the prescribed fee, and the Controller
may require from the applicant such
further evidence as he may think
necessary. Section 11 .Copyright on registration-- Section 22 Term of copyright in published literary,
(1) When a design is registered, the dramatic, musical and artistic works.--
registered proprietor of the design shall, Except as otherwise hereinafter
subject to the provisions of this Act, have provided, copyright shall subsist in any
copyright in the design during ten years literary, dramatic, musical or artistic
from the date of registration. work (other than a photograph)
 published within the lifetime of the
 author until [sixty years] from the
(2) If, before the expiration of the said beginning of the calendar year next
ten years, application for the extension of following the year in which the author
the period of copyright is made to the dies. Controller in the prescribed manner, the
Controller shall, on payment of the
prescribed fee, extend the period of
copyright for a second period of five
years from the expiration of the original
period of ten years. Section 22 . Piracy of registered design. Section 67 Penalty for making false
(1) During the existence of copyright in entries in register, etc., for producing or
any design it shall not be lawful for any tendering false entries.--Any person
person-- who,-- (a) for the purpose of sale to apply or
 cause to be applied to any article in (a) makes or causes to be made a
 any class of articles in which the false entry in the Register of
 design is registered, the design or any Copyrights kept under this Act, or
 fraudulent or obvious imitation RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 47 of 72 thereof, except with the licence or (b) makes or causes to be made a
 written consent of the registered writing falsely purporting to be a
 proprietor, or to do anything with a copy of any entry in such register, or
 view to enable the design to be so
 applied; or (c) produces or tenders or causes to
 be produced or tendered as evidence
 any such entry or writing, knowing (b) to import for the purposes of sale, the same to be false,
 without the consent of the registered
 proprietor, any article belonging to shall be punishable with
 the class in which the design has been imprisonment which may extend to
 registered, and having applied to it one year, or with fine, or with both.
 the design or any fraudulent or
 obvious imitation thereof; or (c) knowing that the design or any
 fraudulent or obvious imitation
 thereof has been applied to any article
 in any class of articles in which the
 design is registered without the
 consent of the registered proprietor,
 to publish or expose or cause to be
 published or exposed for sale that
 article. 20. After taking into account the above pleas, we are of the view that Section

2(c) of the Copyright Act defines ―artistic work‖ to mean a painting, sculpture,

a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or plan), and engraving or

photograph, whether or not any such work possesses artistic quality. It also

includes a work of architecture and any other artistic craftsmanship. This

definition has a very wide connotation as it is not circumscribed by any

limitation of the work possessing any artistic quality. Even an abstract work,

such as a few lines or curves arbitrarily drawn would qualify as an artistic RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 48 of 72 work. It may be two dimensional or three dimensional. The artistic work may

or may not have visual appeal. 21. The rights to which a holder of an original artistic work is entitled are

enumerated in Section 14(c) of the Copyright act. These are, the right: 22. Therefore, it is the exclusive right of the holder of a Copyright in an

original artistic work to reproduce the work in any material form. For example,

a drawing of an imaginary futuristic automobile, which is an original artistic

work, may be reproduced in the three-dimensional material form using an

element, such as a metal sheet. When the copyright holder of an original

artistic work reproduces the same in another material form, he may, or may not RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 49 of 72 do so by employing an industrial process or means which may be manual,

mechanical or chemical, separate or combined, on an article. If the

reproduction of the original artistic work is done by employing an industrial

process, as aforesaid, on an article, and the same results in a finished article

which appeals to the eye as adjudged solely by the eye, then the features of

shape, configuration, pattern, ornament or composition of lines or colours

applied to the article by the industrial process constitutes a ―design‖, within the

meaning of this expression as defined under the Designs Act . 23. There is, therefore, a clear distinction between an original artistic work,

and the design derived from it for industrial application on an article. This

position is clarified by the use of the expression ―only‖ before the words ―the

features of shape, configuration, pattern, ornament or composition of lines or

colours‖ in the definition of ―design‖ in the Designs Act . Therefore, the

original artistic work, which may have inspired the creation of a design, is not

merely the feature of shape, configuration, pattern, ornament or composition of

lines or colours which are created to apply to an article by an industrial process.

The original artistic work is something different from the design. Secondly, the

definition of ―design‖ expressly excludes, inter alia, any artistic work defined

in section 2(c) of the Copyright act, 1957. 24. It needs to be emphasized that it is not necessary that in every case a RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 50 of 72 design has to be preceded by an artistic work upon which it is founded. A

craftsman may create a design without first creating a basic artistic work. This

may best be illustrated by a weaver who may straightaway create a design

while weaving a shawl, which product could be created even without the basic

artistic work. 25. Whether or not a design is preceded by an original artistic work, a design

would, in its own right qualify to be termed as an artistic work within the

meaning of Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act. This is so because the

expression ‗artistic work' as defined in Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act bears

a wide definition to mean a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a

diagram, map, chart or plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any

such work possesses artistic quality. However, the design may or may not

enjoy a copyright protection under the Copyright Act , depending on whether it

is an ‗original artistic work' or not. 26. The expression ―copyright in any design‖ used in Section 15(2) means

the copyright as understood under the Copyright Act , and not under the Designs Act . This is evident from the expression ―copyright shall not subsist

under this Act......‖ used in sub-section (1) of Section 15 . However, copyright

in an artistic work subsists provided it is an original artistic work. Therefore,

there can be no claim for Copyright under the Copyright Act in an artistic work RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 51 of 72 which does not have the quality of possessing originality. The holder of a copy

of an original artistic work cannot claim copyright protection. Therefore, to be

entitled to protection under the Copyright Act , the design should have

originality. That is not to say that if the design is not entitled to copyright

protection under the Copyright Act , on account of it not possessing originality

vis-à-vis the original artistic work, the design does not require, or cannot be

granted registration under the Designs Act for it to be entitled to protection

under the Designs Act . 27. Under the Designs Act , a copyright has a different connotation from a

copyright under the Copyright Act . Under the Designs Act , copyright means

the exclusive right to apply the design to any article in any class in which the

design is registered. 28. The issue with regard to the extent of, and the conditions for the

copyright protection to such an artistic work, as an artistic work under the Copyright Act , which is a design registered or capable of registration under the Designs Act , is what is dealt with, by section 15 of the Copyright Act. Once

the distinction between the original artistic work and the design derived from it,

and the distinction between Copyright in an original artistic work under the Copyright Act , and a copyright in a design under the Designs Act is

appreciated, the meaning and purport of section 15 of the Copyright Act RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 52 of 72 becomes clear. 29. Section 15 of the Copyright Act is in two parts. The first part i.e. sub-

section (1) states that copyright shall not subsist under the Copyright Act in any

design which is registered under the Designs Act . Consequently once the

design is created and got registered under the Designs Act , whether or not the

design is eventually applied to an article by an industrial process, the design

loses its protection as an artistic work under the Copyright Act . Therefore,

subject to whatever rights that are available under the Designs Act , the

registered design holder cannot claim protection or complain of copyright

infringement in respect of the registered Design under the Copyright Act . 30. Subsection (2) of section 15 deals with the situation where the design,

which is capable of being registered under the Designs Act , is not so registered.

It provides that copyright in such a design shall cease as soon as any article to

which the design has been applied has been reproduced more than 50 times by

an industrial process by the owner of the copyright or with his licence, by any

other person. It is clear to us that the Parliament in Section 15 of the

Copyright Act was dealing with the aspect of copyright in a

registered/registrable design, as understood in the Copyright Act and not the Designs Act . Else, there was no need to deal with this aspect in the Copyright

Act . The same would have been dealt with under the Designs Act . Therefore, RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 53 of 72 the law tolerates only a limited industrial, or shall we say commercial,

exploitation of the original artistic work by the application/reproduction of the

said work in any other form or reproduction of copies thereof in exercise of the

rights under Section 14(c)(1) and 14(c)(iii) of the Copyright Act. Beyond the

specified limit, if the design derived from the original artistic work is exploited

(i.e. if the design is applied more than 50 times by an industrial process on an

article) the copyright in the design ceases unless it is registered under the Designs Act . 31. We are also of the view that it is not correct on behalf of the appellant to

urge that the intention of the creation of the work determines the Intellectual

Property Rights contained therein, and not whether such work fell within the

classification of ―Designs‖ under the Designs Act or the Copyright Act . The

Designs Act nowhere stipulates the intention of the creator of the work as a

determinative criteria and the exhaustive definition given not only in the Designs Act but indeed the Copyright Act clearly rules out such interpretation

as suggested by Shri Raju Ramachandran. In fact, the appropriate occasion to

evaluate the registrability of a design would arise when the artistic work is

translated into an object having features of shapes, configuration, pattern,

ornament or composition of lines or colors whether two dimensional or three

dimensional by employing an industrial process. Significantly, the appellant RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 54 of 72 themselves have registered their product under the Designs Act in U.K.

Furthermore, as submitted by the appellant, even if there is very little variation

between the original artistic work and the design which is industrially applied

to an article to produce a product, nevertheless, such a design can claim

registration under the Designs Act , provided such registration was sought. The

interpretation suggested by the appellant would clearly afford not only the

design protection in case of registered works but also in addition, the copyright

protection to the works which were industrially produced, which interpretation

does not reflect the legislative intent. 32. A perusal of the Copyright Act and the Designs Act and indeed the

Preamble and the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Designs Act makes

it clear that the legislative intent was to grant a higher protection to pure

original artistic works such as paintings, sculptures etc and lesser period of

protection to design activity commercial in nature. The period of copyright

would be the author's life span plus 60 years. However, the legislature has

allocated a lesser time span for the protection available to a registered design as

only being 15 years. Thus, commerce and art have been treated differently by

the Legislature and any activity which is commercial in nature has been granted

lesser period of protection. On the other hand, pure artistic works per se have

been granted a longer protection. RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 55 of 72 33. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Designs Act, 2000 reads as

follows: - 34. Section 6 of the Designs Act, 2000 reads as follows: A perusal of the above Section 6 clearly indicates that once the design

has been registered for a particular article comprised in a class of articles, the

subsequent registration of other articles comprised in that class of articles shall

not be refused but the subsequent registration shall not extend the period of

copyright in the design beyond that arising from the previous registration. It is

significant that the subsequent registration has statutorily been mandated not to

extend the period of copyright registration beyond the period beginning from

the original registration. This clearly shows the legislative intent of limiting

the copyright protection in the design to the initial period of 10 years,

extendable by further period of 5 years. RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 57 of 72 35. However, there can be no quarrel with the plea of Shri Ramachandran

that the operation of Section 15(2) of the Copyright Act does not exclude from

the ambit of Copyright protection either the original ―artistic work‖ upon which

the design is based or the design which by itself is an artistic work. It cannot

be disputed that the original paintings/artistic works which may be used to

industrially produce the designed article would continue to fall within the

meaning of the artistic work defined under Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act,

1957 and would be entitled to the full period of copyright protection. This is

also evident from the definition of the design under Section 2(d) of the Designs

Act. This, in our view, in fact is a factor which would go against the appellants

in construing the nature of protection to be given to the original artistic work

such as a painting, as contrasted with the applied artistic work that is the

design, which in the present case does not mean the intermediary medium such

as a mould, engraving devised/produced only to enable industrial application of

the painting to produce the furnishing products of the appellant. Thus, while

the original painting would indeed be entitled to the copyright protection, the

commercial/industrial manifestation of such paintings such as the design

derived from and founded upon the original painting for the purpose of

industrial production of furnishings would only be covered by the limitations

placed in Section 15 of the Copyright Act and would get protection if RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 58 of 72 registered as a design under the Designs Act but would enjoy lesser period of

protection in case of a registered design. 36. This clearly shows that the legislature intended that even if the artistic

work such as a painting has been used as the basis for designing an industrially

produced object for commerce, such as the furnishing in the present case,

nevertheless the original painting would indeed enjoy full copyright protection,

while the result of the industrial application of such painting, namely, the

design used in the industrial production of the ultimate product shall enjoy

lesser period of protection as stipulated under the Designs Act provided it is

registered as a design under the Designs Act . Thus, we are of the view that an

original artistic work initially acquires protection under the Copyright Act as

an 'artistic work' or else the protection under the Designs Act qua the product

created from the artistic work when industrially applied. 37. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for

the respondent in FAO (OS) No.447/2008 had submitted, and in our view

rightly so that the object of the two legislations was to prevent long term usage

by the person who was commercially exploiting something and yet wanting to

claim an exclusive monopoly through longer period of copyright protection

afforded to an artistic work. Section 15 of the Copyright Act demonstrates the

legislative intention of integrating the Copyright and Designs Acts and any RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 59 of 72 other interpretation would, as rightly submitted by Dr. Singhvi, render the

registration under the Designs Act as meaningless as a design proponent will

always get a longer period of copyright protection under the Copyright Act . In

our view, the above plea would make a registration under the Designs Act meaningless, which the legislature could have never intended. In fact, the plea

of Dr. Singhvi that a design which has been granted the protection under the Designs Act cannot be granted protection under the Copyright Act is correct

and this is evident from Section 15(1) of the Act. 38. Thus, while it is not open to the respondent to reproduce such paintings

per se, which formed the basis of the design that was applied to the fabric,

nevertheless, such protection qua the design imprinted on the product through

industrial application is available only under the Designs Act , provided there is

a registration. This is precisely why the legislature not only limited the

protection by mandating that the copyright shall cease under the Copyright Act in a registered design, but in addition, also deprived copyright protection to

designs capable of being registered under the Designs Act , but not so

registered, as soon as the concerned design had been applied more than 50

times by industrial process by the owner of the copyright or his licensee. This

clearly indicates that the legislature intended to provide industrial and

commercial application of an artistic work for commerce lesser protection. RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 60 of 72 39. Shri Arun Jaitley, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant

in FAO (OS) No.326/2007 titled as M/s Dart Industries Inc. & Anr. v. M/s

Techno Plast & Ors. had only made submissions in the present appeal in

respect of Section 15 of the Copyright Act to the extent it could affect the

appeal filed by his clients. He had advanced a very attractive argument as to

the three stages of processes leading to the eventual designed product. He

submitted that the first stage is of the preparation of drawing or artistic work

which leads to the production of mould/engraving which is the second stage

and such mould/engraving leads to the final commercially marketable product,

which is the third stage. He has also submitted that the products of the

respondent were made by the process of reverse engineering starting from the

final product leading to the second stage of creating a moulding, and from it a

final drawing. His plea was based upon the premises that the mould and the

drawing of the appellant are copyright protectable under the Copyright Act and

cannot be or are incapable of forming part of the design registration regime. It

is submitted that the product of the respondent involves the copying of the

mould/drawing of the appellant. 40. While the argument is very attractive but nevertheless it is not legally

sustainable because such a plea would enlarge the monopoly in industrial

design from the current maximum time of 15 years to the longer period RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 61 of 72 available under the Copyright Act . While the original drawings of the

appellant could be entitled to copyright protection under the Copyright Act as

artistic works, the designs derived therefrom as moulds which are used for

industrial application of the design on the articles would not qualify for

protection as artistic works under the Copyright Act except in accordance with Section 15(2) of the Copyright Act. It is not the case of the appellant

Microfibres or even that of Mr. Jaitley's clients that the design applied on the

fabric (in the case of Microfibres) or the plastic (in the case of Mattel Inc.) has

not been applied for more than 50 times. There designs have been used more

than 50 times. The learned Single Judge in paragraph 51 of the impugned

judgment held as follows: 41. As rightly submitted by Shri Rajender Kumar, the learned counsel for the

respondent no.2 in the present appeal, the interpretations canvassed by the

appellant would, render the design legislation otiose, because every registered

design would then be able to trace its origin to a chart, drawing, diagram etc.

and consequently also claim copyright protection under the Copyright Act in

addition to the protection as a registered design under the Designs Act . 42. Shri Prashanto Chandra Sen, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of

the respondent no.1, contended that the difference between a design and an

artistic work lies in the applicability of the former to an article as evident from

the decision in Con Planck Ltd. case 1923 KB 804, wherein it was held that

the fundamental distinction between a design and a simple artistic work lies in

the applicability of the former to some other article. In our view, the

interpretation suggested by Shri Jaitley would result in every industrial tracing, RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 63 of 72 drawing or mould which may not be an original artistic work within the

meaning of Section 2(c) read with Section 13 of the Copyright Act, and which

lead to the designed product, being afforded protection under the Copyright Act as an original artistic work and also being at the same time industrially and

commercially exploitable by being applied to marketable articles by claiming

protection under the Designs Act, 2000 . In the case of Interlego (1988) RPC 343, the following position of law

was laid down: 43. Undoubtedly, it is true as contended by Shri Jaitley that the artistic work

defined under Section 2(c) of the Copyright Act need not possess artistic

quality. His plea about the copyright protection available to

moulding/engraving/drawing is postulated on the above premise. Nevertheless,

we cannot lose sight of the fact that the design, based upon a moulding or an

engraving derived from the original artistic work, which is used for industrial

application on an article and which evolves during any process intermediate to

the reproduction of the finally designed article, would not qualify as an artistic

work. The case of Dover LD (supra) clearly requires the exercise of

intellectual activity so as to originate some novel application and thus, this

principle cannot be applied to a mould, or an engraving i.e. the intermediates

which are mere derivatives of the original artistic work. In the case of Pugh

vs. Riley (supra) also it was held that a design is preceded by a drawing or

tracing which incorporates the design to be imparted to produce the designed

article and upon being applied to an article become incapable of being

registered as a design. RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 66 of 72 Thus, the interpretation as suggested by the appellant would have the

effect of rendering the design legislation in India redundant as every design

could have its origin to an intermediate product such as a engraving, mould,

diagram etc. It is also anti-competitive and stagnates innovativeness beside in

effect negating the legislative intent of giving lesser protection of 15 years to a

‗design' under the Designs Act as compared to the larger protection of 60 years

to an ‗artistic work' under the Copyright Act . 44. We cannot accede to the plea of Shri Sanjay Jain that the intention of

creating an artistic work would determine as to which enactment applies. The

artist's intent at the time of creation of the artistic work is indecipherable at the

best of times. Artists are governed more often than not by their emotions and

moods and whatever be the intention at the time of the creation of the artistic

work cannot, in our view, determine the nature of protection available to the

artistic work. Indeed such a plea of Shri Ramachandran has already been

rejected by us, as the stupendous and commercial success of a particular

artistic work may spur on the artist to permit commercial utilization and

exploitation of such a work of art. To this extent, we agree with Mr. Praveen

Anand that an intention of creation is difficult to ascertain and cannot form the

basis of determining the rights. Thus, even if the original painting was

intended to be created only as a work of art, a latter intention may transform it RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 67 of 72 by its industrial application into a commercially viable object. To this extent,

we agree with the plea of Shri Sanjay Jain that once the artistic work, by

industrial application transforms into a commercially marketable artifact its

design falls within the domain of the Designs Act and the protection to the

design founded upon the artistic work is limited by section 15 of the Copyright

Act and the provisions of the Designs Act . 45. Learned counsel Shri Praveen Anand, appearing on behalf of the

appellant in FAO (OS) No.447/2008 has contended that there is a vital

difference between the subject matter of copyright and design protection. In

our view, while this plea is sustainable, nevertheless, it cannot be ignored that

different kinds of protection for an artistic work, and the design founded upon

the artistic work which is industrially and commercially exploited, has been

intended by the Legislature. He has further submitted that what stands

extinguished under Section 15 of the Copyright Act is the copyright in the

design itself as applied to an article and not the copyright in the artistic work

itself. There is no quarrel with this proposition. However, that does not

advance the case of the appellant. We do hold that in the original work of art,

copyright would exist and the author/holder would continue enjoying the

longer protection granted under the Copyright Act in respect of the original

artistic work. Thus, for instance a famous painting will continue to enjoy the RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 68 of 72 protection available to an artistic work under the Copyright Act . A design

created from such a painting for the purpose of industrial application on an

article so as to produce an article which has features of shape, or configuration

or pattern or ornament or composition of lines or colours and which appeals to

the eye would also be entitled design protection in terms of the provisions of

the Designs Act . Therefore, if the design is registered under the Designs Act ,

the Design would lose its copyright protection under the Copyright Act but not

the original painting. If it is a design registrable under the Designs Act but has

not so been registered, the Design would continue to enjoy copyright

protection under the Act so long as the threshold limit of its application on an

article by an industrial process for more than 50 times is reached. But once

that limit is crossed, it would lose its copyright protection under the Copyright

Act . This interpretation, in our view, would harmonize the Copyright and the

Designs Act in accordance with the legislative intent. 46. We thus summarize our findings as follows: - 47. Thus, we find no merit in this appeal and the same is dismissed but with

no order as to costs. 48. List FAO (OS) No. 447/2008 and FAO (OS) No. 326/2008 for hearing

on 7th August, 2009. (MUKUL MUDGAL)
 JUDGE

 (VIPIN SANGHI)
 JUDGE
May 28, 2009
sk RFA (OS) No. 25/2006 Page 72 of 72