HEMANT GUPTA, J. 1. The order passed by the learned Division Bench of the High Court of

 Punjab & Haryana on 07.07.2011 is the subject matter of challenge in

 the present appeal. The learned Single Bench has allowed the writ peti-

 tion of a Kashmiri migrant, the respondent1 who shifted to Jammu in

 the year 1989 or so. He was transferred to the office of the Intelligence

 Bureau in Delhi. Later he was transferred to Faridabad where he has

 been allotted a government accommodation. The respondent attained Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by R Natarajan the age of superannuation from service on 31.10.2006. Date: 2021.08.11 17:06:37 IST Reason: 1 Onkar Nath Dhar, in short ‘Dhar’ 1 2. The respondent gave representation to the appellant to allow him to

 retain the government accommodation, which was allowed and Dhar

 was allowed to retain house for another one year. Dhar submitted an-

 other representation on 18.6.2007 to allow him to retain house allotted

 to him on a nominal licence fee till the circumstances prevailing in

 Jammu & Kashmir improve and the Government makes it possible for

 him to return to his native place. 3. Dhar was served with a notice under the Public Premises (Eviction of

 Unauthorised Occupant) Act, 19712. An order for eviction against Dhar

 was passed but was stayed by the learned Additional District Judge,

 Delhi. An objection was raised of territorial jurisdiction of the Delhi

 Court. Dhar withdrew his appeal and filed it in the Court of learned Ad-

 ditional District Judge, Faridabad which was dismissed on 19.08.2009.

 Such orders were the subject matter of challenge before the learned

 High Court of Punjab & Haryana in the civil writ petition, which was al-

 lowed on 24.10.2010. 4. The learned Single Bench relied upon an order passed by this Court in J.L. Koul v. State of J & K3 . It was held, that it is not possible for Dhar

 to return to his own State and that due to which order of eviction shall

 be kept in abeyance, although the appellants are at liberty to provide

 alternative accommodation to Dhar on nominal licence fee in Farid-

2 For short, the ‘Act’
3 (2010) 1 SCC 371 2 abad. The same was affirmed by the learned Division Bench of High

 Court of Punjab & Haryana. 5. J.L. Koul was a case arising out of residential accommodation allotted

 to the appellant who was a government servant at Jammu in the year

 1989-90. The appellant therein was permitted to retain the house allot-

 ted at Jammu for safety reasons. In terms of the interim order passed

 by the Court, the Chief Secretary of the State had filed an affidavit on

 06.10.2009 and disclosed that out of 54 appellants who were in Court,

 23 had already vacated government accommodation and the same

 had been allotted to the government employees whereas 31 migrants

 are still occupying the government accommodation. 37,280 families

 have been registered for the relief including the accommodation and

 only 5,000 families have been provided with the accommodation. The

 affidavit stipulates providing transit accommodation and alternatively

 Rupees One Lakh per family towards rental and incidental expenses to

 those who were not able to be accommodated in the transit accommo-

 dation. The relevant clause is as under: quired, wherein it was held as under: 3 modation to 31 appellants-retirees/oustees, they shall con-
 tinue to possess the accommodations which are in their re-
 spective possession on this date.” 7. Learned counsel for the appellant refers to the judgment of this Court

 reported as Lok Prahari (I) v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.4 wherein the executive instructions termed as Ex-Chief Ministers Resi-

 dence Allotment Rules, 1997 were found to be illegal and Lok Prahari

 (II) v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. 5 wherein an Act enacted by the

 Uttar Pradesh Government regularising the allotment of the Govern-

 ment houses to the Ex-Chief Ministers was set aside. Reference was

 also made to judgments of this Court reported as S.D. Bandi v. Divi-

 sional Traffic Officer, Karnataka State Road Transport Corpora-

 tion & Ors.6 and Shiv Sagar Tiwari v. Union of India & Ors.7 8. Mr. Handoo, the learned counsel for the respondent referred to a judg- ment by learned Division Bench of High Court of Delhi reported as

4 (2016) 8 SCC 389
5 (2018) 6 SCC 1
6 (2013) 12 SCC 631
7 (1997) 1 SCC 444 4 Union of India & Ors. v. Vijay Mam8. The order of the learned Sin- gle Bench which was the subject matter of appeal in which it was inter

 alia ordered that Union shall provide alternative accommodation to the

 petitioner and his or her family anywhere in Delhi but can be even in

 NCR region, subject to payment of normal license fee. The learned Di-

 vision Bench was hearing appeals of Union directed against 24 occu-

 pants including one, a former Director-General of Border Security

 Force. The Court referred to Section 2(1)(d) of the Protection of Human

 Rights Act, 1993 as the rights relating to life, liberty, equality and dig-

 nity of the individual guaranteed by the Constitution or embodied in

 the International Covenants and enforceable by Courts in India. Refer-

 ence was made to the report of May, 2008 prepared by UN Committee

 on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, inter alia, reporting that na-

 tional authorities have the primary duty and responsibility to provide

 protection and humanitarian assistance to internally displaced persons

 within their jurisdiction. Principle 7, inter alia, provides that the author-

 ities shall ensure that proper accommodation is provided to displaced

 persons. The Court also referred to the judgment in J.L. Koul as a

 binding precedent. The learned Delhi High Court, inter alia, held as un-

 der: 8 2012 SCC OnLine Del 3218 5 that the issue has arisen in exceptional circumstances and
 exceptional circumstances call for exceptional remedies.
 The underlined objective has to be to dispense justice, of
 course, justice in accordance with law, but at the same time
 justice pragmatic with mercy and compassion, wherever it
 is possible within the parameters of law and without doing
 violence to the legal principles. 17. The simplistic overtures, as perceived by the appel-
 lants taking it to be simple cases under PP Act , has to be
 denounced. The Court cannot countenance trivialization of
 the issue as sought to be projected. This matter definitely
 has strong hue of human rights. The approach of learned
 Single Judge in examining the matter from that angle is
 definitely reasonable, just and proper. The said approach is
 adopted with the purpose of doing justice in the broader
 sense of the matter keeping aside the narrow and pedantic
 approach. Situations may arise when, to do complete jus-
 tice in the matter, courts have to ignore the technicalities of
 law. xxx xxx xxx 31. We also make it clear that the Central Government
 would be free to frame a rehabilitation scheme specifically
 for such retired employees like the respondents and in such
 a scheme, it can specify the terms and conditions on which
 such persons would be entitled to rehabilitate/alternate res-
 idence, which may include the term that these respondents
 or their family members do not have any residence in any
 part of the country. It would also be open to the Govern-
 ment to specify the nature of accommodation to which such
 retired Government servants would be entitled to or the
 place where they would be rehabilitated which may not
 necessarily be in Delhi but can be even in the NCR region.
 After the scheme is framed, the cases of the respondents
 can be scrutinized in terms of that scheme and those not
 found eligible for rehabilitation in terms thereof can be
 ousted from the present accommodation. Subject to our ob-
 servations made immediately above, the appeals are
 hereby dismissed with costs.” 9. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and find that the orders

 of the High Court are unsustainable. In Shiv Sagar Tiwari, the large- 6 scale allotment of Government houses made out of turn in eleven cate-

gories was examined under the Allotment of Government Residences

(General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 1963. All such categories were of serving

employees who were given out-of-turn allotments. The then Minister of

Urban Development in the Central Government was asked to pay a

sum of Rs.60 lakhs as exemplary damages by order dated 8.11.1996.

The Court examining the argument of right to shelter, held as under: Those IAS, IPS and IFS and other officers who are occupying
 General Pool quarters, despite being eligible for quarters in the
 Tenure Pool, would also be evicted. xxx xxx xxx 46. The arbitrary exercise of power by the authorities in a big 7 way had led almost to the collapse of the whole system of
 allotment. There was a crisis-like situation and this Court had to
 deal with an extraordinary situation and a special procedure had
 to be devised to do justice to all concerned. Natural justice being
 a flexible principle and we being concerned with the issue of out-
 of-turn allotment in thousands, it was felt by us that a collective
 hearing would meet the requirement of natural justice as the
 Committee had given individual hearing to those who appeared
 before it. This view was taken because the basic question to be
 determined was whether the allotment given to an employee
 was on out-of-turn basis or not. In case it were to be so, it is
 apparent that unless an exception is made, the allottee has no
 right to stay, no right to occupy the premises. The hearing given
 by us on two occasions brought home eloquently to us that the
 out-of-turn allottees, who were notified and had appeared, had
 two principal contentions to advance — the same being the plea
 not to evict either on the ground of serious illness of one or the
 other close relatives, or to include them in the functional
 category. Nothing else could have really been pleaded not to
 evict them. These two aspects have been adequately borne in
 mind by us as would appear from the aforesaid discussion. xxx xxx xxx 95. Finally, we hope that coming years would not see any scam
 or misuse of power in making allotments of government
 quarters. The trust which is reposed in this context on high
 public functionaries would be discharged, we are sure, only to
 advance the object of providing of suitable conditions of work to
 government employees so that the Government is run on even
 keel; and shelter, which is a very pressing necessity of any
 human being, would not come to be denied if the same is
 otherwise due to the incumbent. A satisfied bureaucracy is as
 much necessary, as good political leadership, to deliver the
 goods. The Government of free India have many promises to
 keep after its tryst with destiny on the midnight of 14-8-1947.
 We have no doubt that all the public functionaries would so act
 that the meeting with destiny really sees the dawn of an era of
 hope for all.” 10. In S.D. Bandi, the occupation of a government accommodation by the

 members of three branches of the State i.e., legislature, executive and 8 the judiciary beyond the period for which the same was allotted came

 up for consideration. This Court, inter-alia, held as under: - dation. 34. It is unfortunate that the employees, officers, representa-
 tives of people and other high dignitaries continue to stay in
 the residential accommodation provided by the Government
 of India though they are no longer entitled to such accommo-
 dation. Many of such persons continue to occupy residential
 accommodation commensurate with the office(s) held by
 them earlier and which are beyond their present entitlement.
 The unauthorized occupants must recollect that rights and du-
 ties are correlative as the rights of one person entail the du-
 ties of another person similarly the duty of one person entails
 the rights of another person. Observing this, the unauthorized
 occupants must appreciate that their act of overstaying in the
 premise directly infringes the right of another. No law or direc-
 tions can entirely control this act of disobedience but for the
 self realisation among the unauthorized occupants. The mat-
 ter is disposed of with the above terms and no order is re-
 quired in I.As for impleadment and intervention.” 11. The Uttar Pradesh Government has framed Ex-Chief Ministers Resi- dence Allotment Rules, 1997. This Court in Lok Prahari (I) set aside

 the allotment of houses to the former Chief Ministers and Ministers to 9 retain government accommodation even after they demit office. This

Court has approved the judgment in S.D. Bandi’s case, holding as un-

der: 12. In Lok Prahari (II), this Court struck down U.P. Ministers (Salaries, Al- lowances and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1981 as amended in the

 year 2016 consequent to an order passed by this Court in the above-

 mentioned proceedings. The Court held as under: 13. In view of the judgments referred above , the Government accommoda- tion could not have been allotted to a person who had demitted office.

 No exception was carved out even in respect of the persons who held

 Constitutional posts at one point of time. It was held that the Govern-

 ment accommodation is only meant for in-service officers and not for

 the retirees or those who have demitted office. Therefore, the view of

 the learned Delhi High Court and that of the Punjab & Haryana High

 Court is erroneous on the basis of compassion showed to displaced

 persons on account of terrorist activities in the State. The compassion

 could be shown for accommodating the displaced persons for one or

 two months but to allow them to retain the Government accommoda-

 tion already allotted or to allot an alternative accommodation that too

 with a nominal licence fee defeats the very purpose of the Government

 accommodation which is meant for serving officers. The compassion

 howsoever genuine does not give a right to a retired person from con-

 tinuing to occupy a government accommodation. 14. According to a policy framed by the government, a displaced person is

 to be lodged in a transit accommodation and if it is not available then

 cash compensation is to be provided. But the displaced persons cannot

 occupy government accommodation. If a retired government employee

 had no residence, they have an option to avail transit accommodation

 or to receive cash compensation in the place of transit accommoda-

 tion. The right of shelter is taken care of when alternative Transit ac- 12 commodation is made available to the migrants to meet out the emer- gent situation. There is no policy of the Central Government or the

 State Government to provide accommodation to displaced persons on

 account of terrorism in the State of Jammu & Kashmir. Such directions

 of the Delhi High Court and of the Punjab & Haryana High Court is de

 hors any policy of allotting accommodation to the migrants under the

 guise of the right to shelter which is clearly in excess of jurisdiction

 vested with the Courts. The hardship faced by them does not lead to a

 corresponding duty of the State to provide them alternative govern-

 ment accommodation. 15. It was argued by Mr. Handoo that the right of shelter is a fundamental

 right under article 21 of the Indian Constitution. A right to shelter is a

 fundamental right, that may not be disputed, but such a right of shel-

 ter is granted to millions of Indians who do not have shelter. A section

 of society, more so retired government employees, who had earned

 pension, drawn retirement benefits cannot be said to be in such condi-

 tion, where the government should provide government accommoda-

 tion for an unlimited period. The direction to allow a retired govern-

 ment servant to retain government accommodation for an indefinite

 period, to say the least, is a distribution of state largesse without any

 policy of the State. A section of the migrants cannot be treated as

 preferential citizens to give them the right to shelter at the cost of mil-

 lions of other citizens who do not have a roof over their heads. The 13 right of shelter to the displaced person is satisfied when accommoda- tion had been provided in the transit accommodation. Such right of

 shelter does not and cannot extend to provide a government accom-

 modation. 16. J.L. Koul is a case, accepting the rehabilitation scheme framed by the

 State authorities based on which appropriate accommodation was pro-

 vided to 31 appellants and was given accommodation which was in

 their possession. Such direction was in terms of Article 142 of the Con-

 stitution. This Court in a judgment reported as Indian Bank v. ABS

 Marine Products (P) Ltd.9 held that the High Courts repeatedly fol-

 lowed a direction issued under Article 142 , by treating it as the law de-

 clared by this Court. It was held that the Courts should therefore be

 careful to ascertain and follow the ratio decidendi, and not the relief

 given on the special facts. This Court held as under: 17. In another judgment reported as Ram Pravesh Singh & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Ors. 10, it was held that any direction given on spe-

 cial facts, in the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142 , is not a bind-

 ing precedent. This Court held as under: 2. The writ petition is disposed of accordingly. There is
 no order as to costs.”

 The tenor of the said order, which is not preceded by any
 reasons or consideration of any principle, demonstrates that it
 was an order made under Article 142 of the Constitution on the
 peculiar facts of that case. Law declared by this Court is binding
 under Article 141. Any direction given on special facts, in
 exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142 , is not a binding
 precedent. Therefore, the decision in Govinda Rajulu [1986 Supp
 SCC 651 : 1987 SCC (L&S) 71] cannot be the basis for claiming
 relief similar to what was granted in that case . A similar
 contention was negatived by the Constitution Bench in Umadevi

10 (2006) 8 SCC 381 15 (3) [(2006) 4 SCC 1 : 2006 SCC (L&S) 753] : (SCC p. 39, para 46)

 “The fact that in certain cases the court had directed
 regularisation of the employees involved in those cases
 cannot be made use of to found a claim based on
 legitimate expectation.” 18. Therefore, the direction issued in J.L. Kaul that the retirees shall con- tinue to possess the accommodation in their possession is a direction

 under Article 142 of the Constitution. This Court had accepted the re-

 habilitation scheme finalized by the State Government. 19. Dhar was an officer of the Intelligence Bureau. He has drawn his salary

 and availed of alternative accommodation for 15 years after his retire-

 ment along with pensionary benefits. There is no indefeasible right in

 any citizen for allotment of government accommodation on a nominal

 licence fee. The government accommodation is meant for the serving

 government employees to facilitate the discharge of their duties. The

 government accommodation is not meant for the retirees. The accom-

 modation to the retirees is at the cost of serving officers. In terms of

 the policy which was considered in J.L. Koul, the Kashmiri migrants

 are entitled to transit accommodation and if transit accommodation

 could not be provided then money for residence and expenses. Dhar

 and such like persons are not from the poorest section of the migrants

 but have worked in the higher echelons of the bureaucracy. To say that

 they are enforcing their right to shelter only till such time the condi-

 tions are conducive for their safe return is wholly illusory. No one is 16 sure that at what point of time the condition will be conducive to the

 satisfaction of the migrants. Such benevolence and preferential right to

 section of the citizens is unfair to the serving officers. Dhar like persons

 should have compassion for their fellow employees who may be with-

 out any government accommodation. The right to shelter does not

 mean right to government accommodation. The government accom-

 modation is meant for serving officers and officials and not to the re-

 tirees as a benevolence and distribution of largesse. 20. Thus, we find that the orders passed by the High Court are absolutely

 without any basis and in the absence of any policy of allotment of gov-

 ernment accommodation to a retired government servant, who may be

 victim of terrorism. The orders passed are wholly arbitrary and irra-

 tional. We are unable to agree with the reasoning recorded by Delhi

 and Punjab & Haryana High Courts. 21. Consequently, the present appeal is allowed. The order passed by the

 High Court is set aside and the writ petition challenging the order un-

 der the Act is restored. However, the respondent- Dhar is granted time

 to hand over vacant physical possession of the premises on or before

 31.10.2021, i.e., after 15 years of his attaining the age of superannua-

 tion. 17 22. The appellant shall submit a report of the action taken against the re- tired Government officials who are in Government accommodation post

 their retirement by virtue of the orders of the High Courts on or before

 15.11.2021. .............................................J.
 (HEMANT GUPTA)

 .............................................J.
 (A.S. BOPANNA)

NEW DELHI; AUGUST 5, 2021. 18