% 12.12.2023 1. This is a suit instituted by Inventphile Ventures Pvt. Ltd.
 through its Director, Vaibhav Shukla. The plaintiff alleges that
 Defendants are infringing the registered trademarks of the plaintiff. The mark that the plaintiff seeks to assert is . It stands
 registered in favour of the plaintiff in class 36 in respect of "Financial
 Affairs, Monetary Affairs, Cyptro Currency Services, Crypto
 Currency Exchange Services, Brokerage Services, Financial

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:45
 Consultancy and Advisory Services Including class 36" with effect
 from 14 March 2022. 2. According to the assertions in the plaint, the plaintiff owns and
 operates an online platform called "LetsKrypto", over which users can
 buy, sell, trade and pay with crypto currencies. "Brine" is stated to be
 a crypto currency platform created by the plaintiff, which is the
 decentralised exchange version of the "LetsKrypto" crypto currency
 platform. 3. It is necessary to identify the defendants before proceeding
 further. Defendant 5, Shaaran Lakshminarayanan and the plaintiff and
 Vaibhav Shukla were and continue to be the directors in the plaintiff
 company Inventphile Ventures Pvt. Ltd. Defendant 2, BRS Tech
 Services Ltd. is a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands,
 of which Defendant 5, Mr. Shaaran Lakshminarayanan, for whom Mr.
 Ashim Sood appears, claims to be the sole director (as, apparently, the
 law in the British Virgin Islands permits a company to be incorporated
 with one director). Defendants 3 and 4 are former employees of the
 plaintiff and Defendants 6, 7 and 8 are investors in the plaintiff
 company and in Defendant 2 BRS Tech Services Ltd. 4. The plaintiff is aggrieved by the use, by the defendants, of the

 marks and which are deceptively similar to

 the mark of the plaintiff. 5. Mr. Sai Deepak, learned Counsel for the plaintiff submits that
 Defendants 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 have been impleaded in the present suit as,
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:45
 according to the plaintiff, they are in collusion with Defendants 1, 2
 and 5 in infringing the plaintiff's registered trademark. Ms. Padmaja
 Kaul, learned Counsel for Defendants 6 submits that Defendant 6 has
 neither invested in the plaintiff nor in Defendant 2, BRS Tech
 Services. Ms. Amrit Sharma, learned Counsel appears for Defendant 8. Ms. Kaul and Ms. Sharma both emphatically refute the allegation
 of collusion with any of the other defendants. For the purposes of the
 order being passed today, it is not necessary for me to enter into the
 allegations of collusion of Defendants 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8. 6. Mr. Miglani, learned Counsel for Defendants 1 and 3 submits
 that Defendant 1 is not using the impugned mark, and does not intend
 to use the mark at any future point of time either. As such, he submits
 that, insofar as the allegation of infringement is concerned, Defendant
 1 has no role to play. The statement is taken on record. 7. What has to be seen, therefore, is whether an injunction against

 use of the impugned marks and by Defendants
 2 and 5 ought, or ought not, to be granted. 8. I may, even at this juncture, note that Mr. Sood, learned
 Counsel who appears on behalf of Defendant 5, has not contested the

 allegation of deceptive similarity between the plaintiff's

 mark and the impugned and marks. Even
 otherwise, the marks are, at a plain glance, deceptively similar, both in

 respect of the logo forming part of the marks as well as the word
 "Brine" which is written in white on a black background. On the face
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:46
 of it, therefore, the two marks are deceptively similar to each other. 9. Mr. Sai Deepak submits that, as the plaintiff is the registered

 proprietor of the mark, and the Defendants 2 and 5 possess

 no registration in respect of the impugned and
 marks, the law clearly requires Defendants 2 and 5 to be injuncted
 from using the said marks. 10. Even though we are at a stage of ad interim injunction, the
 prayer of the plaintiff was seriously contested and detailed arguments
 have, therefore, been heard, from Mr. Sai Deepak on behalf of the
 plaintiff and Mr. Ashim Sood on behalf of Defendant 5. 11. Mr. Sood initially raised several preliminary objections. He
 contended that the plaintiff has not approached this Court with clean
 hands and has resorted to conscious suppression of facts which, even
 by itself, disentitles the plaintiff from any equitable relief. Mr. Sood
 has placed considerable reliance on proceedings instituted by the
 plaintiff before the learned National Company Law Tribunal ("the
 learned NCLT"). Vaibhav Shukla, apparently, instituted, initially, one
 petition on or around 17 April 2023, under Sections 241 and 242 of
 the Companies Act, which was never pursued, though it was filed.
 That petition continues to languish at the filing counter of the NCLT
 and will be referred to, hereinafter, as "the first Company petition". 12. The plaintiff and Mr. Vaibhav Shukla, thereafter, instituted a
 separate petition under Sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act
 ("the second Company petition") before the learned NCLT on or

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:46
 around 23 November 2023. Mr. Sood sought to point out that the
 plaintiff has also incorporated, in the said petition, averments
 regarding the allegations regarding trademark infringement, by

 Defendants 2 and 5 of the mark registered in the plaintiff's
 favour. Mr. Sai Deepak, however, contests the submission and asserts
 that the averments in the body of the petition filed before the learned
 NCLT were only regarding unauthorised use of the assets of the
 plaintiff by Defendants 2 and 5. 13. Mr. Sood has particularly invited my attention to prayer (e)
 which forms part of the interim relief sought in the second company
 petition, which reads thus: 14. According to Mr. Sood, prayer (e) encompasses, within itself,
 the prayer for protection against infringement of the plaintiff's
 registered trademark, raised in the present suit. Mr. Sood submits
 that, having raised the issue of infringement of the plaintiff's
 trademark before the learned NCLT in the second Company petition,
 the plaintiff cannot simultaneously maintain the present suit and seek
 an interlocutory injunction against infringement. At the very least, he
 submits that the consideration of the plaintiff's prayer for grant of
 interim injunction ought to await the outcome of the proceedings
 before the learned NCLT in the second Company petition, as the same
 relief has been sought in the said proceedings. 15. Mr. Sood has also sought to submit that the plaintiff has

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:46
 deliberately concealed both the first and the second company petition
 from the present proceedings and, therefore, is not entitled to any
 equitable relief from this Court. He has drawn my attention to paras
 13 and 41 of the plaint which read thus: 39. He submits that the plaintiff has, in paras 13 and 41 of the
 plaint, deliberately suppressed the factum of the aforesaid two
 company petitions having been instituted before the learned NCLT,
 even though the plaintiff has disclosed the pendency of criminal
 litigations between the parties. This, therefore, by itself, according to
 Mr. Sood, forecloses the possibility of grant of any interim relief to
 the plaintiff. Mr. Sood also submits that the averments in the company
 petition discloses the existence of a cloud on the authority of Mr.
 Vaibhav Shukla to represent the plaintiff and that, even for this
 reason, the averments in the company petition are relevant. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:46 16. Mr. Sood also sought to raise an objection regarding the
 authority of Mr. Vaibhav Shukla to institute the present suit. He has
 drawn my attention to the Board Resolution dated 22 August 2022, on
 the basis of which the present suit has been instituted by Mr. Vaibhav
 Shukla. It reads thus: 17. Mr. Sood submits that the authorisation to Mr. Vaibhav Shukla,
 as per the afore-extracted resolution did not include the authorisation
 to institute the present suit for infringement. It only extended to
 instituting actions pertaining to customer complaints, FIRs, police
 notices, criminal complaints and the like. Mr. Miglani, who appears
 for Defendant 1, has supported this contention and has, in this context,
 placed reliance on the judgment of a learned Single Judge of the High

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 Court of Madras in K.N. Sankaranarayanan v. Shree Consultations
 and Services Pvt. Ltd.1 , from which he places reliance on para 9,
 specifically to the following statement of law contained in the said
 paragraph: 18. That apart, Mr. Sood submits that one of the grievances of the
 plaintiff, as the petitioner before the learned NCLT in the second
 company petition was that Mr. Vaibhav Shukla been illegally ousted
 from the plaintiff company. Mr. Sood, however, candidly
 acknowledges that Mr. Vaibhav Shukla continues to remain a director
 in the plaintiff company till date. Mr. Sood has specifically placed
 reliance on paras 31 and 33 of the second company petition, which
 read thus: 19. Mr. Sood has also placed reliance on the minutes of an
 Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) of the member of the plaintiff
 company, held on 14 October 2022, which contains the following
 resolution: 20. Mr. Sood's submission is that the minutes of the EGM dated 14
 October 2022 superseded the resolution dated 22 August 2022 on the
 basis of which Mr. Vaibhav Shukla claims to be authorized to institute
 the present suit on behalf of the plaintiff company. To a query from
 the Court as to whether Mr. Vaibhav Shukla, who remains one of the
 only two directors in the plaintiff company, was included in the EGM
 held on 14 October 2022, Mr. Sood answers in the negative, but
 submits that Mr. Vaibhav Shukla, of his own will and volition, chose
 not to participate in the said EGM. 21. On the merits of the matter, Mr. Sood submits that it is not an
 exorable rule that, in every case of infringement, an injunction must
 follow. He submits that, though grant of injunction is the normal
 sequitur to a finding of infringement, in a case such as the present, the
 Court should depart from that principle. 22. Mr. Sood thereafter proceeded to take me through Section 29 of
 the Trade Marks Act and emphasised the words "permitted use". Mr.
 Sood's submission is that, if the defendants are using the impugned
 mark, it is with the implied consent of the plaintiff and that, therefore,

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 the plaintiff cannot maintain the present suit and seek an injunction
 against the said use. 23. Mr. Sood has also questioned the entitlement of the plaintiff to
 injunction on the argument that the plaintiff has himself not been

 using the mark which the plaint asserts. He submits that
 there is no averment in the plaint which discloses any such use, by the

 plaintiff, of the asserted mark, though it was registered in
 the plaintiff's favour with effect from 14 March 2022. Mr. Sood has,
 in this context, placed reliance on para 17 of the plaint, which reads as
 under: 24. Thus, submits Mr. Sood, when the plaint contains no assertion

 of use, by the plaintiff, of the mark and, on the other hand,
 specifically states that the plaintiff company has shut down, the
 plaintiff cannot be said to be entitled to any interim injunction. To
 support his stand that the absence of use, by the plaintiff, of an
 asserted trademark can itself constitute a basis to deny interim
 injunction, Mr. Sood places reliance on paras 23 and 26 of the
 judgment of a Division Bench of this Court in Veerumal Praveen

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47 Kumar v. Needle Industries (India) Ltd.2 and on paras 17 and 19 of
 the judgment of a Division Bench of the High Court of Madras in Malar Network (P) Ltd. v. Arun Prasad D3 : ***** 26. Though delay by itself would not be a defence but if there
 was a non-user for a long period of time the mark would lose its
 distinctiveness or the mark is then permitted to die for non-user.
 The Bombay High Court observed "It is well settled that lapse of
 time may bring about a change in the state of things in such a
 manner that to grant injunction in favour of the plaintiffs would be
 harsh and it may cause irreparable damage or harm to the rights of
 the defendants." Thus the Bombay High Court was of the view that
 non-use of trademark does have a bearing in action for
 infringement specially at the interlocutory stage and equities would
 have to be balanced in such a situation. The Bombay High Court
 had further laid down certain principles in this behalf which have

 2 (2001) 93 DLT 600 (DB)
 3 (2011) 2 MWN (Civil) 828 (DB)

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 been reproduced in the impugned judgment. In point (f) of the
 order dated 28th March, 2000 it is stated that the object of the Act
 is to protect the right and not be a source of monopoly. In point (j)
 it has been observed that a mark can lose its distinctiveness by non-
 user. Thus the enforcement of the right of exclusive use of a trade
 mark will depend on continuous use of the mark by the proprietor.
 In point (k) it has been observed that the Court shall not protect the
 right of proprietor unless there is sale of the articles to which trade
 mark is attached or related. Paras 17 and 19 from Malar Network 17. However, the said mark has not been used by the appellant
 till today. The judgment of Bombay High Court reported in 1998
 PTC 18 cited supra would laid down the principle of non-user of
 the registered trademark. In the said judgment , the trademark even
 though registered was not used for 30 years without commencing
 the business under the name of the said trademark. In such
 occasion, the non-user of the said trademark will not make any
 reputation of the mark so as to give rise to prima-facie case of the
 reputation of the said mark. Apart from that it has emphasised that
 such registration would monopolise the said mark which is not the
 object of the Act. As far as this case is concerned, even though the
 name "malar tv" was registered in the year 2003 and the domain
 names "malartv.com" and "malartv.in" have been registered, there
 is no commencement of business even today. The user of the name
 "malar tv" in the internet as a website had commenced from
 16.05.2009 onwards and therefore, the non-user of the name
 registered by the appellant will not in any way a hindrance to the
 use of the name "Arun's malar.tv" as directed to be modified by the
 learned single Judge. ***** 19. Considering the absence of any prima-facie case in favour
 of the appellant/plaintiff and if for any reason interim injunction
 has been granted against the respondent/defendant, certainly the
 reputation earned from the commencement of the website of the
 respondent/defendant from 16.05.2009 and the goodwill and
 reputation earned by him either in the name of "malar.tv" or
 "Arun's malar.tv" as the case may be would be put into jeopardy.
 Further, the appellant has not at all commenced the business so as
 to sustain any loss either towards infringement or towards passing
 off and therefore, the balance of convenience is only in favour of
 the respondent in not granting the injunction. Therefore, we are of
 the firm view that the learned single Judge is correct in his view to
 dismiss the applications after ordering the modification of the
 name from "malar.tv" as "Arun's malar.tv", which has been
 promptly complied with by the respondent." This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47 25. Thus, submits Mr. Sood, the plaintiff is not entitled to any
 interim relief on several grounds. Firstly, the plaintiff has concealed
 relevant facts while approaching this Court. Secondly, Mr. Vaibhav
 Shukla is not duly authorised to institute the present suit. Thirdly,
 even on merits, the reliefs sought by the plaintiff from the learned
 NCLT in the second company petition also encompass the relief
 sought in the present suit. Fourthly, the plaintiff's claim to interim
 injunction is also liable to be rejected as there is no evidence of use,

 by the plaintiff, of the asserted device mark. 40. On the aspect of concealment, Mr. Sood places reliance on the
 decisions in Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. v. Harinder Kohli4 and Seemax Construction (P) Ltd. v. State Bank of India5 passed by
 learned Single Judges of this Court. 26. To the allegation that the defendants' mark is deceptively
 similar, if not identical, to the plaintiff's, however, Mr Sood offers no
 traversal. 27. Responding to the submissions of Mr. Sood, Mr. Sai Deepak, in
 rejoinder, emphatically refutes the allegation of suppression of facts.
 Apropos the company petitions which were filed before the learned
 NCLT, Mr. Sai Deepak submits the first company petition was
 instituted, not by the plaintiff, but by Mr. Vaibhav Shukla in his
 personal capacity and, in any case, that company petition still
 languishes with the Registry of the NCLT and has never been

 4 (2008) 155 DLT 56
 5 AIR 1992 Delhi 197

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 prosecuted. Besides, the said petition is of no relevance, whatsoever,
 to the present case, as, being a petition instituted by Mr. Vaibhav
 Shukla in his personal capacity, there was no question of any issue of
 trade mark infringement being raised therein. Insofar as the second
 company petition is concerned, Mr. Sai Deepak points out that the
 petition was instituted on 25 November 2023, whereas the present suit
 was instituted before this Court on 16 November 2023. As such, there
 was no question of any reference to the second company petition
 finding place in the body of the present suit. 28. Apropos the EGM minutes dated 14 October 2022, Mr. Sai
 Deepak submits that no copy of the said minutes was received by Mr.
 Vaibhav Shukla. 29. Insofar as the disclosure of the inter se disputes between the
 plaintiff and the defendants is concerned, Mr. Sai Deepak submits
 that, in paras 5 to 8 of the plaint in the present suit, there is more than
 sufficient disclosure of the disputes between them. He has taken me
 through the said paragraphs. He submits that the plaintiff has also
 been candid in acknowledging the shareholdings of the various
 defendants in the plaintiff company, both in the averments contained
 in the above paragraphs, as well as in a comprehensive document at
 page 285 of the documents filed with the plaint, which contains the
 entire shareholding of all shareholders in the plaintiff company. As
 such, he submits that there can be no question of the plaintiff being
 held guilty of any suppression or misstatement of facts. 30. Mr. Sai Deepak also refutes Mr. Sood's contention that there is
 an overlap between the prayers in the second company petition and in
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 the present suit. He submits that while acknowledging that there is
 reference, in the second company petition, to the factum of trademark
 infringement, by Defendants 2 and 5, of the plaintiff's registered
 trademark, that, he submits, was but necessary as it is one of the
 methods by which, according to the plaintiff, as the petitioner before
 the learned NCLT, Defendants 2 and 5 have entrenched on the assets
 of the plaintiff company. The proceedings before the learned NCLT
 being in the nature of oppression and mismanagement, Mr. Sai
 Deepak submits that the plaintiff had necessarily to seek a relief of
 protection of the assets of the company, which was all that was sought
 in the interim prayer (e) on which Mr. Sood placed extensive reliance.
 The fact that the intellectual property of the plaintiff company was
 also included in the assets of the plaintiff company and, therefore, the
 prayer for preservation of the assets of the plaintiff company may also
 include the plaintiff's intellectual property, he submits, does not mean
 that the plaintiff has, before the learned NCLT, sought any injunction
 against infringement of its registered trademark. Infringement
 proceedings and oppression and management proceedings, submits
 Mr. Sai Deepak, stand on entirely different pedestals. The mere fact
 that there may be some degree of overlap in the cause of action which
 has resulted in the institution of these proceedings, he submits, does
 not mean either that reliefs sought by the plaintiff before this Court
 have also been sought before the learned NCLT or that the present
 proceedings are required to be kept in abeyance awaiting the outcome
 of the proceedings before the learned NCLT. 31. He submits that, in fact, this Court is the only competent forum
 to rule on the aspect of infringement. The plaintiff cannot, therefore,
 in any case, been non-suited in the present proceedings. Even if it
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 were, for the sake of argument, to be presumed that the prayers sought
 before the learned NCLT also included a prayer for injunction against
 infringement, the only consequence, submits Mr. Sai Deepak, would
 be that the learned NCLT would decline the said prayer. That cannot
 be a basis to non-suit the plaintiff in the present proceedings. 32. On merits, Mr. Sai Deepak submits that there has been no
 contest whatsoever, by Mr. Sood, on the aspect of deceptive similarity
 between the plaintiff's and the defendants' mark, so that the allegation
 of infringement, within the meaning of Section 29 of the Trade Marks
 Act has to be deemed to be accepted. He submits that, for deciding
 the aspect of infringement, use of the mark asserted in the plaint is an
 entirely irrelevant consideration and also points out that the defendant
 is not pleading honest and concurrent user. 33. I have heard learned Counsel for both sides at considerable
 length and considered the rival submissions addressed at the Bar. 34. To my mind, the plaintiff is entitled, prima facie, for an ad
 interim order at this stage, in terms of the prayers in the present
 application for the following reasons: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 " " and the word "BRINE". In each case, the logos are
 similar in design. The word BRINE is written in white letters
 on a black background. To a consumer of average intelligence
 and imperfect recollection, there is every possibility of
 likelihood of confusion between the two marks. (ii) As such, there is congruence of the three criteria which
 are cumulatively required to be satisfied for finding of
 infringement within the meaning of Section 29(2)(b) of the
 Trade Marks Act to return, viz., (i) similarity - in fact, near
 identity - of the rival marks, (ii) use of the marks for providing
 identical services and (iii) as a consequence of (i) and (ii),
 likelihood of confusion in the minds of the public. The
 congruence of these three factors make out a prima facie case of
 infringement within the meaning of Section 29(2)(b) of the
 Trade Marks Act. (iii) Mr. Sood's reliance on the pleadings and the prayer in the
 second company petition do not, prima facie, commend
 acceptance. There is, no doubt, reference, in the second
 company petition to the fact that Defendants 2 and 5 had
 infringed the plaintiff's registered trademark. That, however, as
 Mr. Sai Deepak correctly points out, is merely part of the
 recitals in the company petition, to substantiate the charge of
 oppression and mismanagement. Insofar as prayer (e) in the
 company petition is concerned, it is obvious that the said prayer,
 howsoever one may read it, cannot be regarded as seeking an
 injunction against infringement of the plaintiff's registered
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 trademark, which is the only prayer in the present petition.
 Prayer (e) in the petition is clearly intended at protection of the
 assets of the plaintiff company, given the fact that the
 proceedings allege oppression and mismanagement by
 Defendants 2 and 5. The prayer for protection and preservation
 of the assets of the company is but a sequitur to the nature of the
 proceedings that the plaintiff instituted before the learned
 NCLT. The fact that the intellectual property of the plaintiff
 was also part of the assets of the plaintiff company cannot
 convert the proceedings before the learned NCLT into
 proceedings seeking an injunction against infringement of the
 plaintiff's registered trademark. I am not, therefore, able to
 accept Mr. Sood's contention that the prayers sought in the
 present petition also form subject matter of the relief sought
 before the learned NCLT. (iv) Nor I am able to accept Mr. Sood's contention that, for
 non-disclosure of the proceedings before the learned NCLT, the
 plaintiff can be held to have resorted to misstatement, as it has
 not disclosed the proceedings before the learned NCLT. As Mr.
 Sai Deepak correctly points out, the present plaint was filed on
 16 November 2023, whereas the proceedings before the learned
 NCLT were instituted on 23 November 2023. There was,
 therefore, no question of any assertion with respect to the
 proceedings before the learned NCLT finding place in the
 averments in the plaint filed in the present suit. Though Mr.
 Sood also sought to point out that the affidavit in the second
 company petition was signed and sworn by Mr. Vaibhav Shukla

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 on 16 November 2023, on which date the affidavit and the
 statement of truth accompanying the plaint in the present suit
 were also signed and sworn by him, that, to my mind, cannot be
 of any relevance as there could still be no question of the
 present plaint making any reference to the proceedings before
 the learned NCLT. (v) Insofar as the first company petition filed before the
 learned NCLT was concerned, that petition was instituted by
 Mr. Vaibhav Shukla in his personal capacity and was never
 prosecuted. (vi) As such, the submission of Mr. Sood that the plaintiff has
 been less than economical in its disclosure regarding the
 proceedings between the plaintiff and the defendants before the
 learned NCLT cannot, prima facie, be accepted. (vii) Apropos the authority of Mr. Vaibhav Shukla to institute
 the present suit, I am unable to agree with Mr. Sood on this plea
 either. The authorisation granted to Mr. Vaibhav Shukla by the
 Board Resolution dated 22 August 2022 - which, incidentally,
 also authorised Defendant 5 Shaaran Lakshminarayanan to
 institute the present proceedings - authorises Vaibhav Shukla
 and Shaaran Lakshminarayanan to "represent the company,
 engaged attorneys and enter into, make, sign, seal, execute,
 deliver, acknowledge, perform all petitions, deeds, declarations
 as deemed necessary, proper or desirable in relation to any
 litigations or actions required to be taken by the Company in
 any place in India, pertaining to customer complaints, FIRs,

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 police notices, criminal complaints and the like". The scope
 and ambit of this resolution is wide and comprehensive and, in
 my considered opinion, would also, prima facie, cover the
 authority to institute the present suit. The words "perform all
 petitions ... in relation to ... consumer complaints, FIRs, police
 notices, criminal complaints and the like" clearly encompass
 "performing" - which, in the absence of any limiting caveat,
 would include institution and prosecution - all litigation. The
 words "and the like" are also compendious in their import.
 Preceded as they are by consumer complaints as well as
 criminal litigation, they would encompass all litigation, as the
 entire litigative genus stand covered thereby. In that view of the
 matter, I am of the opinion that the judgment of the learned
 Single Judge of the High Court of Madras in Sankarnarayanan
 K.N cannot be cited as a ground to urge that Vaibhav Shukla
 was not authorised to institute the present suit. (viii) Insofar as the reliance, placed by Mr. Sood, on the notice
 dated 7 October 2022 and the EGM minutes dated 14 October
 2022 are concerned, there is no dispute about the fact that
 Vaibhav Shukla did not participate in the meeting dated 14
 October 2022. Apparently, the notice of the minutes of the
 meeting dated 7 October 2022 were received by Vaibhav
 Shukla, who chose to oppose the holding of the meeting in a
 written response to the said notice. He, thereafter, did not
 participate in the meeting. The meeting, therefore, took place
 behind the back of Vaibhav Shukla. As Vaibhav Shukla, as one
 of the only two directors of the plaintiff company, at that point

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 of time, did not participate in the EGM, I cannot, prima facie,
 accept the submission of Mr. Sood that the decision taken in the
 said meeting superseded the Board Resolution dated 22 August
 2022, which authorised Mr. Vaibhav Shukla and Mr. Shaaran
 Lakshminarayanan to institute the present suit. The reliance of
 Mr. Sood on the EGM which took place on 14 October 2022,
 too, therefore, in my considered opinion, cannot, prima facie,
 disentitle the plaintiff to institute the present suit. (ix) It cannot, therefore, be alleged that the plaintiff has
 concealed, in the present plaint, any such fact which, if
 disclosed, would disentitle him to relief. It is only in such a
 case that suppression of fact can be cited as a ground to deny
 relief to a plaintiff, as held by the Supreme Court in S.J.S.
 Business Enterprises v. State of Bihar6 . (x) Insofar as the merits of the matter are concerned, as
 already noted, there is no dispute on the aspect of deceptive
 similarity. (xi) The submission of Mr. Sood that in every case, where
 there is infringement, an injunction need not follow, is in the
 teeth of the provisions of the Trade Marks Act and is plainly
 unacceptable. Section 28(1) of the Trade Marks Act entitles the
 proprietor of every validly registered trade mark to relief against
 its infringement. Grant of injunction, in such cases, is the rule,
 as held by the Supreme Court in Midas Hygiene Industries P.

 6 (2004) 7 SCC 166

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47 Ltd. v. Sudhir Bhatia7 , which goes to the extent of holding that
 delay would also not operate as a factor inhibiting grant of
 injunction. (xii) Mr. Sood sought to clarify his submission by seeking to
 point out that, in the present case, there is no evidence of user,

 by the plaintiff, of the mark which is asserted in the
 plaint. He submits that it is not an inexorable rule that there
 must be five years' non-user before a plaintiff can be held to be
 disentitled to an interim injunction against infringement. To
 accept the submission, one would, in my view, have to rewrite
 the statute. Section 47(1)(b) of the Trade Marks Act
 specifically deals with the consequence of extended non-use of
 a registered trademark. It provides that, where there is no bona
 fide use of a registered trademark for a continuous period of five
 years from the date of registration, and the appropriate authority
 is moved on or after three months from the expiry of the said
 period of five years, the trademark can be taken off the register.
 This is the only consequence envisaged in the Trade Marks Act of non-use of a mark. Continuous non-use for a period of five
 years would render the registration of a trademark vulnerable to
 evisceration under Section 47(1)(b) . Section 28(1) specifically
 confers, to the holder of a valid trademark registration, the right
 to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trademark. The
 corollary of a conjoint reading of Section 28 and Section
 47(1)(b) is that, so long as a trademark has not been in disuse
 for a continuous period of five years, it cannot be taken off the
 7 (2004) 3 SCC 90

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 register of Trade Marks and, so long as it continues to remain
 on the register of Trade Marks, the proprietor of the registration
 would be entitled under Section 28(1) to obtain relief against
 infringement. (xiii) Of course, this is subject to the registration being valid,
 as it is only the holder of a valid registration who can obtain
 relief against infringement. The defendant does not seek to
 question the validity of the plaintiff's registration. (xiv) The decisions in Veerumal Praveen Kumar and Malar
 Network, on which Mr. Sood places reliance, cannot aid the
 case that he seeks to canvas. In the first place, both the cases
 dealt with several years' continuous non-use of the mark
 asserted by the plaintiff, with the length of non-use being, in
 Veerumal, 30 years and in Malar Network, 7 years. Paras 23
 and 26 of Veerumal, in fact, would, on the aspect of non-use,
 operate to disentitle the present plaintiff to injunction. Para 24
 of the decision in Veerumal starts with the words "in view of
 the aforesaid factual position" thereby indicating that the
 decision was rendered in the facts stated in para 23 of the
 judgment, which are clearly distinguishable from those in the
 present case. A reading of paras 23 to 26 of Veerumal reveal
 that the principle that the Court has sought to enunciate, in the
 said case, is that continuous non-user of a registered trademark
 for a long period of time would result in the death of the mark
 by non-user, in which event the registrant could not, thereafter,
 plead registration of the mark as a ground to injunct any other
 person from using the said mark or a mark which was
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 deceptively similar thereto. (xv) It is obvious that neither of these decisions can apply in

 the present case, in which the plaintiff's mark was
 registered only on 14 March 2022. A little over a year and a
 half is passed since the said registration and it cannot possibly
 be said that the plaintiff has lost its right to seek relief against
 infringement, as is statutorily guaranteed to it by Section 28(1) of the Trade Marks Act, on the ground of non-user. (xvi) Mr. Sai Deepak's submission is that if the plaintiff's
 activities have been brought to a halt, that is because of the
 oppression and mismanagement by Defendants 2 and 5. In the
 facts of the present case, I am obviously not called upon to
 express any opinion, one way or the other, on the said
 submission. (xvii) Mr. Sood's submission that the plaintiff stands disentitled

 to interim relief as it has not used the asserted mark
 also fails to convince. (xviii) The plea of permissive user of the impugned mark, as
 urged by Mr. Sood, is not supported by any corroborative
 material. There is no documentary evidence on record to
 indicate that the defendants were using the mark on the basis of
 any permission granted from any competent quarter. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47 41. The preliminary objections raised by Mr. Ashim Sood,
 therefore, do not find favour with the Court. On merits, the case is
 plainly one of the defendants' using a mark which is deceptively
 similar to that of the plaintiff for providing identical services. The
 adoption of an identical mark is obviously conscious and deliberate.
 Ad interim protection must, therefore, necessarily follow. 42. The plaintiff is, therefore, entitled to interim injunction as
 sought. 43. As such, issue notice on the present application, returnable
 before the Court on 6 March 2024. 44. Notice is accepted on behalf of Defendants 1 and 3 by Mr.
 Pratyush Miglani, Defendant 5 by Mr. Ashim Sood, Defendant 6 by
 Ms. Padmaja Kaul and Defendant 8 by Mr. Ankur Sangal. 45. Let notice issue to the remaining defendants by all modes. 46. Reply, if any, be filed within four weeks with advance copy to
 learned Counsel for the plaintiff who may file rejoinder thereto within
 four weeks thereof. 47. Though this order is lengthier than an ad interim order should
 justifiably be, that is only because of the lengthy - and erudite -
 arguments advanced by both sides. 48. Needless to say, these are only findings returned at the ad
 interim stage even before the defendants have had an opportunity to

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47
 place their stand on record. They cannot, therefore, in any manner,
 inhibit the Court or even be of persuasive value, when the Court takes
 up the present application for hearing and disposal after completion of
 pleadings in the application. 49. Till the next date of hearing, the defendants as well as all others
 acting on their behalf shall stand restrained from using services under

 the marks and , "Brine" and/or any mark

 identical or similar to the plaintiff's marks "Brine" and , in
 any manner. 50. Dasti. C.HARI SHANKAR, J
 DECEMBER 12, 2023
 ar

 Click here to check corrigendum, if any

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 15/12/2023 at 22:09:47