This Company Appeal is filed invoking Section 10(F) of the

Companies Act, 1956 (for short, 'the Act') (now repealed), by the

respondent - applicant company in Company Application No.

180/621A/CB/2015 on the file of the Company Law Board Bench

at Chennai. The respondent - applicant company, previously known as

M/s Maytas Infra Limited, is a group company of M/s Satyam

Computers Limited, which was found to have involved in various

violations of the provisions of the 1956 Act, the Securities Contract

(Regulation) Act, 1956 and Securities and Exchange Board of India

Act, 1992 (for short ' SEBI Act ') apart from certain financial

irregularities. As the said M/s Maytas Infra Limited is the group

company promoted by the promoters / persons in management

and other related persons of M/s Satyam Computers Limited,

inspection of books and accounts were ordered by the Ministry of

Corporate Affairs, invoking Section 209-A of the 1956 Act and the

task was entrusted to Serious Fraud Investigation Office, the

appellant herein, authorizing them to file complaints under various

provisions of the said Act. The Serious Fraud Investigation Office,

after completion of investigation, launched prosecution before the

Economic Offences Court, Hyderabad against the respondent

company and its directors. During the pendency of the said

prosecution cases, the respondents and its directors, who are 2 accused, approached the Company Law Board (CLB) by way of

Company Application No. 180 of 2015, admitting violations and

therefore, seeking to compound the contravention of the provisions

of Section 292 of the Act. The alleged contravention is that the

respondent company had not passed the Board Resolution for

taking loan of Rs.43.02 crores from M/s Maytas Properties Limited

and Rs.95,965/- from M/s Veeyes Investments Private Limited.

The said violation was noticed by the SFIO during the inspection

under Section 209A of the Companies Act, 1956 of the applicant

Company ordered by the Ministry on the ground of acquisition of

shares of M/s Maytas Infra Limited by M/s Satyam Computer

Services Limited. The CLB, vide its common order dated

10.03.2016, compounded the offences, subject to payment of fee. In the Appeal, apart from various other grounds, a

substantial question of law said to be arising from the order of the

CLB, has been raised. The same reads as under: Learned counsel for the appellant Sri Namavarapu

Rajeshwar Rao submits that the respondent company had

contravened the provisions of Section 292 of the Act, for which

prosecution was launched before the Economic Offences Court and

the same is pending. According to him, the violations committed

by the respondent are of serious nature affecting public interest 3 and the CLB gravely erred in allowing compounding of offences in a

casual manner. The learned counsel, while copiously taking this Court

through various documents filed in support of this Appeal and the

grounds raised therein, principally, urge that the order of the CLB

is liable to be set aside for, a) the CLB failed to consider the

objections raised by the appellant which reflects non-application of

mind, as compounding of offences would, in effect, exonerate the

respondent from the criminal prosecution before the Special Judge

for Economic Offences -cum-VIII Additional Metropolitan Sessions

Judge as if it was done in terms of Section 320 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure (for short, ' Cr.P.C '); b) the CLB, before

exercising the discretionary power and allowing the Application,

had ignored the settled principles of law and also failed to

appreciate the fact that the respondent had admitted committing

the offences. The evidence on record coupled with admission of the

respondent disentitles it from compounding the offences and thus

granting discharge from the criminal case; c) the CLB failed to

appreciate the fact that the violations committed by the respondent

are of serious nature and the consequences of ordering

compounding of offences; and d) the CLB failed to appreciate the

principles laid down by the Supreme Court in JIK Industries

Limited v. Amarlal V.Jumani1 . On the other hand, learned Senior Counsel

Sri L. Ravichander appearing for the respondent - applicant

1 (2012) 3 SCC 255 4 submits that the scope of Appeal under Section 10(F) of the 1956

Act is limited for consideration of the substantial question of law

raised before this Court. The learned Senior Counsel would assert

that the question of law said to have arisen from the order of the

CLB is not at all a substantial question of law, as, essentially, what

the appellant questions is the discretionary power vested in the

CLB and re-appreciation of the facts to arrive at a different

conclusion than the one already recorded by the CLB is

impermissible. He would place on record the judgments in Sree

Meenakshi Mills Ltd. Madurai v. Commissioner of Income Tax ,

Madras2, and Sir Chunilal V. Mehta and sons Ltd. v. Century

Spinning and Manufacturing Co. Ltd3 . and contend that there is

no question of law arising from the orders of the CLB. The learned

Senior Counsel also would urge that the offences alleged against

the respondent company are purely of technical nature and

further, the CLB has taken into consideration the subsequent

developments, particularly taking over of the management of

erstwhile M/s Maytas Infra Limited by the respondent company

and the proceedings of the CLB in M/s Satyam Computers' Limited

case. In that view of the matter, the learned Senior Counsel would

urge that the contention of the appellant that the CLB had failed to

apply its mind and appreciate both fact and law is not sustainable,

hence, he prays for dismissal of the Appeal as the respondent had

already paid the compounding penalty, as directed by the CLB.

2 AIR 1957 SC 49
3 AIR 1962 SC 1314 5 Perused the material on record. In view of the rival

contentions, the question for consideration is 'whether the Appeal

raises a substantial question of law as set out in para 7, and

whether the discretion exercised by the CLB while ordering

compounding of offences calls for interference by this Court'. The CLB, in its order dated 10.03.2016, had taken note of

the fact that the management of M/s Maytas Infra Limited was

taken over pursuant to the orders of the CLB, Principal Bench,

New Delhi, dated 31.08.2009 in Company Application No. 431 of

2009 in Company Petition No. 3 of 2009 and the new promoter

had changed the name to M/s IL & FS Engineering and

Construction Company Limited. In other words, though the

corporate entity is one and the same, the peculiar facts and

circumstances leading to taking over of the respondent company

by a professionally-managed new promoter, particularly keeping in

view the subsequent developments in relation to M/s Satyam

Computers Limited episode are all in the view of the CLB while

making the impugned order, wherein a detailed reference was

made thereto and the factum of the erstwhile directors resigning

and transferring of their respective shares in the subsidiary

companies. In those circumstances, the argument of the appellant

that there was non-application of mind and non-consideration of

the material on record before ordering compounding does not

stand scrutiny. Further, it is not the case of the appellant that the

lacks jurisdiction in ordering compounding of offences. The

judgment of the Supreme Court in JIK Industries ' case, referred 6 to by the learned counsel for the appellant is distinguishable and

not applicable to the present case. Firstly, it may be noted that the

said judgment is in relation to exercising the discretion by the

Criminal Court in compounding the offences arising in cheque

bounce cases under Section 138 read with 141 of the Negotiable

Instruments Act, 1881 , and not in the cases arising under the

provisions of the Companies Act . Secondly, compounding of

offences under the Negotiable Instruments Act was on account of

the guidelines framed by the Supreme Court in M/s Damodar S.

Prabhu v. Sayed Babalal H4 . However, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Damodar 's case, in exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution, in order to fill up the legislative

vacuum, framed guidelines allowing compounding of offences

under Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Supreme Court in JIK Industries case (cited supra)

found that the principles enunciated in Damodar 's case were not

followed and further, held that as a result of sanction of scheme

under Section 391 of the 1956 Act, there was no automatic

compounding of offences under Section 138 of the Negotiable

Instruments Act even without the consent of the complainant. In the said judgment , the Court, after analyzing Section 320 Cr.P.C.,

had held that essentially, Section 320 of the Code provides

basically two categories of offences compoundable; one category

requires leave of the Court and the other requires no leave of the

Court. In all the categories of cases, compounding can take place

at the instance of the persons mentioned in the 3rd column of the

4 (2010) 5 SCC 663 7 Table attached to Section 320 of the Code. The Court also held that

while considering a compounding application, in the absence of

special procedure relating to compounding, the procedure and

principles relating to compounding under Section 320 of the Code

shall automatically apply, in view of sub-section (2) of Section 4 of

the Code. Applying the above laid guidelines to the present case on

hand, there is no dispute that the offence alleged against the

respondent company and its directors for violation of the

provisions of Section 292 of the 1956 Act is compoundable in

terms of Section 621A of the said Act. The offences for which

prosecution is launched against the respondent squarely fall

under sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Code which reads as

under: In other words, as held by the Supreme Court, compounding

application would fall within Section 4(2) of the Code and the same

is required to be considered applying the principles analogus for

compounding the offences under Section 320 of the Code. The

cases seeking compounding under the 1956 Act are also required

to be considered applying the said principles. When we peruse Section 621-A , the same, by itself, does not provide any guideline 8 and does not specify any special requirements for considering

compounding of offences. Section 621-A reads as under: Explanation: - For the purposes of this section, any second or
subsequent offence committed after the expiry of a period of three years from the
date on which the offence was previously compounded, shall be deemed to be a
first offence. (3)(a) Every application for the compounding of an offence shall be made
to the Registrar who shall forward the same, together with his comments
thereon to the Central Government. (b) Where any offence is compounded under this section, whether before
or after the institution of any prosecution, an intimation thereof shall be given
by the company to the Registrar within seven days from the date on which the
offence is so compounded. (c) Where any offence is compounded before the institution of any
prosecution, no prosecution shall be instituted in relation to such offence, either
by the Registrar or by any shareholder of the company or any person authorised 9 by the Central Government against the offender in relation to whom the offence
is so compounded. (d) Where the composition of any offence is made after the institution of
any prosecution, such composition shall be brought by the Registrar in writing,
to the notice of the Court in which the prosecution is pending and on such
notice of the composition of the offence being given, the company or its officer in
relation to whom the offence is so compounded shall be discharged. (4) The Central Government while dealing with a proposal for the
compounding of an offence for a default in compliance with any provision of this
Act which requires a company or its officer to file or register with, or deliver or
send to, the Registrar any return, account or other document, may, direct, by
order, if it or he thinks fit to do so, any officer or other employee of the company
to file or register with, or on payment of the fee, and the additional fee, required
to be paid under Section 611 , such return, account or other document within
such time as may be specified in the order. (5) Any officer or other employee of the company who fails to comply with
any order made by the Central Government under sub-section (4) shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extent to six months or
with fine not exceeding (fifty thousand rupees) or with both. (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal
Procedure , 1973 - (a) any offence which is punishable under this Act with imprisonment or
with fine, or with both, shall be compoundable with the permission of the Court,
in accordance with the procedure laid down in that Act for compounding of
offences; (b) any offence which is punishable under this Act (2 of 1974) with
imprisonment only or with imprisonment and also with fine shall not be
compoundable. (7) No offence specified in this section shall be compounded except under
and in accordance with the provisions of this Section." In this context, it is pertinent to note that Section 621A itself

came to be introduced by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1988.

The objective of introducing the compounding provision in the Act

is to reduce litigation in the Courts as the offences under the Act

are generally of technical nature. The Section itself is brought into 10 existence following the recommendations of SACHAR Committee

which had suggested providing for realization of fines through

Court proceedings by a system of penalty as provided in the Income Tax Act by conferring power on the Registrar, CLB by

clothing the powers of a Court. In the absence of any specific

restriction, the CLB is entitled to consider facts in each case and,

taking into consideration the nature of violation found, consequent

damage that may be caused to the public interest at large, and the

relative merits of allowing the criminal proceedings to proceed, is

empowered to take decision in a given case whether to compound

or not. There appears to be no judgment of the Supreme Court or

any of the High Courts exactly delineating the parameters that

could be followed in considering the compounding of cases under

various jurisdictions. However, in the context of the offences

alleged under the SEBI Act , SEBI had notified certain guidelines. In recent times, the NCLAT chaired by Hon'ble Sri Justice

Sudhansu Jyoti Mukhopadhaya, retired Supreme Court Judge in

Company Appeal (AT) No. 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 of 2016 (M/s Viavi

Solutions India Private Limited v. Registrar of Companies, NCT

Delhi and Haryana ), in para 12, had broadly set out the

parameters that are required to be noticed in compounding the

offences which can be usefully extracted as under: While dealing with the compounding of offences under the SEBI

Act , the Division Bench of Bombay High Court in Shilpa Stock

Broker Pvt. Ltd. v. SEBI5 had observed as under: In N.H. Securities Ltd. v. SEBI6 , the petition was filed to quash

the order passed by the Special Court rejecting the application

made by the petitioner under Section 24A of the Act. The Bombay

5 2012 (6) Bombay Cases Reporter 808
6 2018 SCC Online Bombay 4040 12 High Court relying on Shilpa Stock Broker case (supra)

dismissed the said petition and came to the conclusion that: In view of the above guidelines, this Court does not find any

infirmity in the order of the CLB, as, in broad sense, the

parameters appear to have been applied. In the fact situation narrated supra, it cannot be said that

the CLB failed to apply the parameters for compounding the

offences for which prosecution has been laid. If one looks at the

question of law raised, in the settled legal principles, it is really not

a substantial question of law as what all has been questioned is

the wisdom of the CLB in exercising discretion by accepting the

compounding applications. The penalty imposed for compounding

is substantially high which would serve as a deterrent in future to

the respondent and also similarly-situated entities / persons. In those circumstances, since there is no merit in the Appeal

and the decision of the CLB having been based on the material

placed before it, and that no question of perversity of finding of fact

having been raised, the Appeal does not warrant interference at

the hands of this Court and the same is liable to be dismissed. The Company Appeal is accordingly, dismissed. No costs. ____________________________
 CHALLA KODANDA RAM, J

28th December 2018

ksld