Through Mr. J.P. Sharma, Advocate

 CORAM: 350/- by the Divisional Railway Manager, Allahabad Division for his hard WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.1 of 52 work, honesty and helping attitude to control crime in the area. 3. On receipt of source information that there were certain

 irregularities being committed by the petitioner, on 16th July, 1982, a

 preliminary enquiry by Shri B.R. Sharma, the then Assistant Security

 Officer/Crime/Headquarters, Baroda House, New Delhi was initiated by the

 respondents. The said officer submitted a report dated 8th September,

 1982. On consideration of this preliminary report, the disciplinary

 authority placed the petitioner under suspension w.e.f. 2nd December,

 1982. 4. The following three incidents were alleged against the petitioner: 5. A chargesheet for imposition of major penalty was issued to the

 petitioner which was communicated to him on the 12th of January 1983

 under Rule 44 of the Railway Protection Force Rules, 1959 (hereafter WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.2 of 52 referred to as the "RPF Rules, 1959"). The ten charges framed against the

 petitioner communicated by the Section Officer, Allahabad read as under: The petitioner was then informed that he was required to submit a

 written statement of his defense within 14 days from the day of framing

 charges. 6. In reply to the charges, the petitioner filed his defence statement

 before the Divisional Security officer on the 26th March 1983. In this

 reply, the petitioner clearly and unequivocally admitted that he had WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.3 of 52 received a copy of the documents supporting the charge sheet as well as

 the preliminary enquiry report. 7. The petitioner refuted all the charges on the basis that he was not

 afforded an opportunity to be represented during the preliminary enquiry

 and that opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses examined therein

 was denied. He contended that the report was arbitrary. The petitioner

 also tried to put forward the plea that the witnesses were examined by

 officers other than the one who had compiled and signed the enquiry

 report and suggested that there was no application of mind nor any

 opinion contained therein and that the same was a mere compilation. He

 has also pointed out that there were contradictions and defects in the

 evidence and the same have been completely overlooked. In his reply,

 the petitioner made a further grievance that the proposed disciplinary

 action was motivated and a result of conspiracy by other members of the

 force for the reason that the petitioner had been refusing to accommodate

 their illegal activities. 8. One Shri D.P. Sharma the then Assistant Security Officer/Crime was

 nominated by the letters dated 4th May, 1984 and 30th November, 1984 to

 conduct the departmental inquiry against the petitioner with regard to the

 above charges. In June, 1984, the petitioner was transferred to South-

 Eastern Railway and went outside the disciplinary control of the Northern

 Railway. 9. Other RPF staff including SI/CIB Harshwardhan, H/C Jagannath

 Dubey, Constable Madan Pal Sharma and Lakshman Kumar Pandey were

 also issued chargesheets based on the report of Shri B.R. Sharma,

 Assistant Security Officer/Crime who conducted the preliminary inquiries

 and thereafter disciplinary proceedings were commenced against these

 personnel as well. Shri R.C. Dikshit, ASO, CNB was nominated by a letter WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.4 of 52 dated 28th January, 1986 to conduct the disciplinary proceedings against

 the other four persons. 10. In the meantime, the petitioner was transferred back to the

 Northern Railway and posted as reader to the Senior Security

 Commissioner/NR/NDLS. On a reference dated 20th June, 1986 and 2nd

 April, 1987 from Shri R.C. Dikshit, the inquiry officer, he was nominated by

 an order dated 22nd April, 1987 to conduct the inquiry against the

 petitioner as well as the other four RPF personnel. The disciplinary inquiry

 was conducted by him till his retirement on 31st July, 1988. Thereafter,

 Shri R.K. Mishra was nominated as the inquiry officer and the inquiry was

 entrusted to him. 11. It is noteworthy that based on the preliminary inquiry report, a

 charge-sheet dated 14th/19th April, 1983 was issued to SI J.N. Mishra and

 the disciplinary inquiry against him also was conducted by Shri R.K.

 Mishra. 12. In the report dated 30th July, 1989, submitted by Shri R.K. Mishra, it

 is mentioned that the findings and report in respect of disciplinary

 proceedings against SI Harshwardhan, H/C Jagannath Dubey, Madan Lal

 Sharma & Lakshman Pandey had already been submitted by him. 13. The petitioner contends that on transfer, he ceased to be an

 employee of the Northern Railway and consequently any enquiry or

 proceedings against him by the Northern Railway would be patently illegal

 and without jurisdiction. The petitioner remained under the South-Eastern

 Railway for a period of one and a half years i.e. till November 1985.

 Further, when the petitioner was transferred to the S. E. Railway, the file

 was sent to the CSO of S.E. Railway. However, he was transferred back to

 Northern Railway since a common inquiry was to be held in the cases

 involving several RPF personnels. The petitioner was with the Northern WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.5 of 52 Railway for six months and remained there until his removal. It is to be

 noted that these transfers also resulted in delay in finalisation of the

 enquiry. 14. While the departmental proceedings were underway, the Railway

 Protection Force Act, 1957 came to be modified/amended by the

 Government of India vide Act No.60 of 1985 which came into being w.e.f.

 20th September, 1995. Pursuant to the amendment in the RPF Act and in

 exercise of powers conferred by Section 21 thereof, the Central

 Government had notified the Railway Protection Force Rules, 1987 vide

 GSR No.951-E dated 3rd December, 1987. By virtue of Rule 280.1 of the

 RPF Rules, 1987, the RPF Rules of 1959 stood repealed. However, under

 Rule 280.2, all proceedings/actions taken earlier were deemed to have

 been taken under the provisions of the new rules. Rule 280.2 of the

 amended rules reads as follows:- 15. The inquiry officer examined the prosecution and defence witnesses

 between 7th October, 1987 to 20th July, 1989. The petitioner participated

 in these proceedings and fully cross-examined all the prosecution

 witnesses. 16. The inquiry officer submitted his findings and report on 30th July,

 1989 to the Chief Security Commissioner/RPF who passed the order dated

 14th September, 1989 holding the petitioner guilty of the charge nos.1-3,

 5, 6, 8 & 9 and exonerated the petitioner of charge nos.4, 7 & 10. The WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.6 of 52 disciplinary authority further imposed the penalty of permanent removal

 from service upon the petitioner. 17. The respondents have pointed out that Rule 154.1.1 of the RPF

 Rules, 1987 requires that while communicating the order imposing

 punishment, a copy of the findings of the inquiry officer is required to be

 given to the party charged. Accordingly, the findings and report of the

 inquiry officer was also supplied to the petitioner along with the final order

 dated 14th September, 1989. 18. The petitioner filed an appeal dated 16th October, 1989 to the

 Director General, Railway Protection Force against the order of removal

 from service which was dismissed by a detailed order dated 15 th of June,

 1990. 19. It appears that the petitioner did not invoke further statutory

 remedy of a revision petition against the appellate order and has instead

 filed the present writ petition, assailing the said orders dated 14th of

 September, 1989 and 15th June, 1990. Petitioner's contentions 20. The petitioner challenges the proceedings of the inquiry and the

 impugned orders on several grounds which may be summed up as

 follows:- The inquiry officer rejected the request of the petitioner vide a

 communication dated 20th July, 1989 on the ground that they were not

 relevant. (iv) The petitioner submits that he was not granted the statutory period

 of 10 days to file his written statement as stipulated under Rule 153.15 of

 the RPF Rules. It is contended that the communication dated 20th July,

 1989 requiring the petitioner to submit his final defence statement by the

 26th July, 1989 was received by the petitioner only on 25th July, 1989. The

 petitioner requested the inquiry officer for ten days time to file the

 defence statement by his letter dated 26th July, 1989 and reiterated his

 request for supply of the said documents. Both requests were denied by

 the inquiry officer by the letter dated 26th July, 1989 and the petitioner

 was called upon to submit his defence by 27th July, 1989. In this

 background, the petitioner sent a letter dated 26th July, 1989 to the inquiry

 officer submitting that on account of insufficiency of time, he was not in a

 position to file the defence statement and that his reply to the charge-

 sheet may be treated as his final defence statement. It is submitted that

 in view of undue haste and the failure to grant sufficient time to the

 petitioner, he has been deprived of a reasonable and fair opportunity to

 establish his innocence. In addition, it is contended that the proceedings

 were conducted in violation of the specific rule no.153.15 of the RPF Rules

 which provided for ten days time to file the written statement of the

 defence. WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.8 of 52 (v) The petitioner has challenged the removal order on the ground that

 it has been passed by an officer subordinate to the petitioner. The

 submission is that the impugned orders are therefore in violation of Art

 311 of the Constitution of India and Rule 248.1 and in violation of

 principles of natural justice. (vi) The petitioner has also contended that the appeal of the petitioner

 was not decided within three months thus violating Rule 220(1) of the RPF

 rules. The appellate order dated 15th June, 1990 is also assailed for the

 reason that no opportunity for hearing was granted to the petitioner by

 the Director General of the RPF before the rejecting the appeal. (vii) The petitioner contends that there is no material to support the

 charges which were laid against him and the impugned orders are based

 either on no evidence or on wholly irrelevant material. It is contended

 that they are consequently not sustainable in law. Respondents' contentions 21. The respondents justify the impugned action and orders on the

 ground that the same are based on an inquiry conducted in accordance

 with the applicable rules, wherever relevant, and principles of natural

 justice. It is contended that the findings of the inquiry officer and the

 disciplinary authority as well as the conclusions of the appellate authority

 are based on relevant material and cannot be faulted on any legally

 tenable ground. 22. So far as the rejection of the request of the petitioner for

 appointment of a particular person as a defence counsel is concerned, the

 respondents have contended that as per the applicable rules, a person

 functioning as a prosecuting officer on behalf of RPF is not permitted to be

 appointed as a defending officer or defence assistant in such like WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.9 of 52 disciplinary proceedings and the first person requested by the petitioner

 could not be appointed for this reason. So far as the second choice of the

 petitioner was concerned, the person who was named by the petitioner

 was not a member of the force. The applicable rules do not permit

 representation of a charged personnel by a person who is not a member

 of the force. The respondents have pointed out that on denial of the

 appointment of the two names that the petitioner suggested, he never

 approached them with any other appropriate name. It is, therefore,

 contended that the inquiry proceedings cannot be faulted on this ground

 of challenge laid by the petitioner. 23. The respondents further state that the petitioner was appointed by

 the Chief Security officer, N Rly (now the CSC) and not by the General

 Manager. He was posted as the Coy Commander/RPF post Tundla on 27th

 September 1981. The removal order against the petitioner has not been

 passed by an officer lower than his appointing authority and no illegality

 can therefore be found in the impugned order. The respondents admit

 that he was granted cash reward of Rs 300 and not of Rs. 350 and the

 cash entry was never omitted from the record as alleged by the petitioner.

 The contention is that this reward is immaterial so far as the present

 proceedings are concerned. 24. The respondents also explain the circumstances in which the inquiry

 officer was changed. It is pointed out that the enquiry was conducted by

 Shri. R. K. Mishra since his predecessor, Shri Dixit who initiated the

 enquiry, had retired. 25. As per the respondents, the petitioner cannot rely on Rule 248.1 of

 the RPF rules since the same relates to the complaints made by public

 against the RPF personnel. The said rule reads as under:- WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.10 of 52 For this reason, rule 248.1 has no application. It is further contended that the rules are to be applied without any

 modification since the modifications were not tabled in the Lok Sabha for

 annulment. 26. The preliminary enquiry is stated to have been held by an Asst.

 Security officer, an officer who is higher in rank to the petitioner. WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.11 of 52 Therefore, as per the respondents, the petitioner's contention of Article

 311 being violated in his case, does not hold any ground. 27. The respondents have contended that so far as the access to

 documents is concerned, the same was never denied to the petitioner.

 The petitioner was granted access to all necessary and relevant

 documents and was enabled to take extract of the relevant portion

 thereof. Whether the principles of natural justice have been violated for the reason
 that all demanded documents were not supplied. 28. The respondents have explained that the receipt of the charge-sheet

 and the proposal for initiation of major penalty was acknowledged by him

 on 21st January, 1983. The petitioner was advised by the respondents and

 was afforded an opportunity to take extracts of documents which were

 relied upon by them for the proof of charges. 29. In view of the objections taken by the petitioner, it becomes

 necessary also to examine the rule position in this behalf. Rule 44 of the

 Railway Protection Force Rules, 1959 provides for the procedure for

 imposition of major penalties. So far as documents are concerned, Rule

 44(3) of the rules provides that the delinquent official shall be permitted

 to inspect and take extracts from such official records as he may specify

 for the purposes of preparing his defence. The rule also provides that

 such permission may be refused, if for the reasons to be recorded in

 writing, in the opinion of the disciplinary authority, such records are not

 relevant for the purpose or it is against the public interest to allow him

 access thereof. 30. In this regard, rule 153.5 of the amended Rules of 1987 on the same

 issue reads as follows:- 31. The respondents have submitted that the petitioner had

 examined/inspected the records from 26th February, 1983 to 28th

 February, 1983 and taken copies of all relevant documents of the case to

 prepare his defence and reply. In this behalf, the respondents have

 placed a copy of the petitioner's acknowledgment on record that he had

 examined the case file and taken extracts of the documents. 32. The petitioner submitted his reply to the charge-sheet on 26th

 March, 1983 to the disciplinary authority. Perusal of the copy thereof

 which has been filed by the petitioner on the record of the present writ

 petition, shows that in para 7 thereof, the petitioner has extensively

 discussed the statements of Shri Hari Shankar Pathak, Shahabuddin, Ram

 Babu Verma & Mahesh Chand Sharma which could only have been

 possible if such documents were in his power and possession. The

 petitioner has also enclosed copy of the report of the preliminary inquiry

 as an annexure to the writ petition. Despite possession of these

 statements, the petitioner persisted with an unwarranted demand for

 copies of the statements vide his application dated 28th June, 1989. 33. The inquiry officer also explains that the demand of the petitioner

 for TA claims of Shri B.R. Sharma who had conducted the preliminary

 inquiry and of the other CIB staff for the period August, 1982 and the

 CSO/Circular cited by him in his application dated 28th June, 1989 were not

 considered relevant to the charges and therefore not produced in the

 disciplinary inquiry. The inquiry officer points out that the petitioner was

 clearly informed about the same by the letters dated 6th July, 1989 and WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.13 of 52 20th July, 1989. 34. The petitioner's demand for documents made in the letter dated 14th

 July, 1989 also includes such documents as are relating to charge no.10.

 The petitioner stands exonerated of such charge. 35. Under the cover of a letter dated 14th July, 1989 to the petitioner,

 the demanded statements of the persons which has been recorded in the

 case of Mahesh Khalasi during the preliminary inquiry as demanded by

 the petitioner, were duly supplied to him. 36. Several other documents including the certified copies of roznamcha

 entry of the RPF post Tundla, required by the petitioner were further

 supplied on 20th July, 1989 while the individual position with regard to the

 other documents informed to the petitioner in this communication which

 required the petitioner to attend the inquiry on 26th July, 1989 and submit

 his final defence statement. 37. It is noteworthy that the statement of the last prosecution witness

 was recorded on 9th June, 1989 while the defence evidence was also

 concluded on 20th July, 1989. The respondents have entertained and dealt

 with the requests of the petitioner for documents despite this position on

 record. In view of the above, there could be no occasion for supply of

 further documents inasmuch as evidence on behalf of the petitioner also

 appears to have been concluded. 38. Yet another application was made by the petitioner on 26th July,

 1989 reiterating the demand for the documents made on 14th July, 1989.

 The inquiry officer considered the requests of the petitioner and was of

 the view that documents which have been cited in the application were

 not relevant to the charge for which the inquiry was being conducted. This

 was communicated to the petitioner by the inquiry officer vide his

 communication dated 26th July, 1989 wherein it was also informed to the WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.14 of 52 petitioner that other documents demanded have already been supplied to

 him. 39. Before this court, the petitioner has taken a blanket objection that

 the refusal of the respondents to give copies of the documents has

 prejudiced the petitioner's defence. No details of the documents which

 were denied by the respondents, have been pointed out. On the contrary,

 the respondents have clearly recorded that certain specified documents

 were not being supplied for the reason that either they were not available

 or were considered unnecessary or irrelevant for consideration of the

 issues involved. 40. It needs no elaboration that only material and relevant documents

 can be called for by a delinquent official. In this regard, the

 pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at ( 2002) 3 SCC 443

 State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. Vs. Ramesh Chandra Mangalik can

 be usefully adverted to. The observations of the court and the principles

 that would govern the adjudication on an issue of prejudice on account of

 non-supply of documents are to be found in paras 11 and 12 of the said

 pronouncement which read as follows:- Learned counsel for the respondent could not pinpoint any
 particular document which may have been made use of by
 the Inquiry Officer for establishing the charges leveled
 against the respondent, copies of which or inspection
 thereof may not have been allowed to the delinquent by
 the Department. No submission has been advanced on
 behalf of the respondent on the point of prejudice which
 may have been caused to the respondent by non-supply of
 document, if any. The high Court has also not gone into the
 question of the relevance of the documents copies of which
 are said to have not been supplied to the respondent and
 consequent prejudice, if caused. We therefore find that the
 finding of the High Court that principles of natural justice
 have been violated for non supply of documents to the
 respondent is sustainable. The cross-examination of a
 witness which was sought for, had unfortunately died which
 fact was also brought to the notice of the respondent." 41. As noticed hereinabove, in the instant case as well, the petitioner

 has failed to point out the relevancy of the documents, copy whereof has

 not been supplied to him. The petitioner also does not disclose what was

 the prejudice caused to him for non-furnishing of the said copies. Merely

 because a demand for some documents was made and the same was

 denied without anything more, cannot ipso facto vitiate the action taken WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.16 of 52 by the respondents or the proceedings of the inquiry. There is substance

 in the contention of learned counsel for the respondents that the

 petitioner has not been able to point out any relevant material document

 available with the respondents of which the petitioner has not been

 permitted inspection. The petitioner is not able to even suggest any

 prejudice which resulted to the petitioner's defence by non-availability of

 any particular document. The respondents have reasonably exercised the

 discretion vested in them so far as the denial of access to irrelevant

 documents was concerned. This contention of the petitioner is, therefore,

 devoid of legal merit and is hereby overruled. Whether the disciplinary action stands vitiated for non-availability of the
 defence assistant of the choice of the petitioner? 42. Mr. Basant, learned counsel for the petitioner has laid a strong

 objection that the petitioner has been denied a defence assistant of his

 choice. Reliance has been placed on the provisions of Rule 153.8 of the

 RPF Rules, 1987 which provides that an enrolled member who has been

 charged shall not be allowed to bring in a legal practitioner at all.

 However, he may be allowed to take assistance of any other member of

 the force. Such `friend' must be (a) a serving member of the force or

 below the rank of sub-inspector posted in the same division or battalion

 where the proceedings are pending; and (b) he should not be acting as a

 friend in any other pending proceedings anywhere. The rules contain the

 restriction on the kind of assistance by such a friend to the effect that he

 shall not be allowed to address the inquiry officer or cross-examine the

 witnesses. 43. The petitioner submits that vide a letter dated 14th of October 1987,

 he requested for the appointment of one Shri N. P. Singh Kalse as a

 defense counsel. This request was turned down vide an order dated 19th WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.17 of 52 October, 1987 for the reason that Shri N.P. Singh Kalse was a prosecuting

 Inspector of the RPF and was not permitted to appear as a defense

 counsel. 44. The petitioner thereafter made a request by a letter dated 19 th

 October, 1987 itself nominating one Shri R.H. Thakkar, Vigilance Inspector

 of the Northern Railway to act as a defence counsel. This request was

 rejected by the inquiry officer on the ground that Shri Thakkar was on the

 said date, not a member of the Railway Protection Force and consequently

 could not be allowed to appear as a defence counsel. These rejections

 have been challenged by the petitioner who urges that denial of a defence

 assistant/friend of his choice has severely prejudiced the petitioner's

 defence and that there was no prohibition under the applicable rules for

 appointment of either of the two persons as the defence assistant of the

 petitioner. The petitioner places reliance on the order dated 17th

 November, 1987 passed by the High Court of Rajasthan at Jodhpur in Civil

 Writ Petition No.1703 of 1987 entitled Jogeshwar Singh Vs. Union of

 India in support of his contention. 45. The respondents have pointed out that the petitioner had originally

 requested for the assistance of Mr. N.P. Singh Kalse, prosecuting

 inspector, RPF, DLI Division. This request was rejected by a letter dated

 19th October, 1987 for the reason that as per the extant rules, a

 prosecuting inspector of the RPF was not permitted to appear as a

 defence counsel in any departmental case. In support of his rejection, the

 respondents rely on a circular dated 9th April, 1974 from the Northern

 Railway informing the decision of the Board to the effect that in keeping

 with the practice followed in other departments of the Railways where law

 assistants are not allowed to act as a defence counsel in departmental

 proceedings, the prosecuting inspectors and sub-inspectors of the Railway WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.18 of 52 Protection Force should also not be permitted to act as defence counsel in

 disciplinary cases. 46. So far as the request of the petitioner for appointment of Shri N.P.

 Singh Kalse is concerned, the same was made on 14 th October, 1987 while

 the request for appointment of Shri Thakkar was made on 19th October,

 1987. It will be relevant here to quote Rule 44(5) of the extant Rules of

 1959 which provides as follows:- (Underlining supplied) 47. We may also advert to Rule 153.8 of the amended RPF Rules of

 1987 which made a provision for assistance to an enrolled member

 charged with misconduct and reads as follows:- 48. Rule 44 of the RPF Rules of 1959 which was applicable provided for

 limited assistance of a member of the force serving in the same division in

 which the charged member was serving. Rule 153.8 aforenoticed became

 applicable on the 3rd December, 1987 and restricted the assistance to that

 from a serving member of force of or below the rank of a sub inspector

 posted in the same division or battalion where the proceedings are WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.19 of 52 pending. The petitioner appears to have enclosed the consents of the two

 persons who had been nominated by him. 49. Mr. J.P. Sharma, learned counsel for the respondents has submitted

 that the circular dated 18th January, 1974 was not incorporated in the RPF

 Rules, 1959 for the reason that there was no prosecution branch in the

 RPF and the same came into existence only later in 1960. We are unable

 to understand as to how this could impact adjudication on the issue raised

 by the petitioner. 50. Perusal of the judgment in Jogeshwar Singh Vs. Union of India (supra) would show that it was held by the High Court of Judicature for

 Rajasthan at Jodhpur that prosecuting inspectors and sub-inspectors are

 included as members of the Railway Protection Force under Rule 3. Reliance was placed on an earlier pronouncement of the court reported at

 1975 RLW 189 Jagdish Singh Vs. Union of India wherein it was held

 that orders of the force cannot be regarded as a rule and consequently,

 the circular of the Board being Circular No.73-SCC/SPL/6138 dated 18th

 January, 1974 cannot override the provisions of sub-rule 5 of Rule 44 of

 the Railway Protection Force Rules, 1959. 51. Mr. Sharma has pointed out that directives were issued by the

 Inspector General of the Railway Protection Force and Railway Board in

 exercise of powers vested under Section 8 of the RPF Act, 1956 read with

 Rule 6 of the RPF Rules, 1959 and were hence binding. 52. The constitutional validity of Rule 158 (3) reproduced hereinabove

 was challenged before the Supreme Court in the case reported at AIR

 2008 SC 1958 Director General, Railway Protection Force & Ors.

 Vs. K. Raghuram Babu wherein the court while upholding the

 constitutional validity of the rule, held that no personnel has a vested or

 absolute right of representation either through a counsel or through any WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.20 of 52 other person unless the statute or the rules provide for such a right. It

 was also observed that the same may be granted as a restricted or

 controlled right. With regard to conduct of defence in a

 domestic/departmental inquiry, the following observations of the court

 throw valuable light on this issue:- 53. In the instant case, the petitioner accepted the rejection of his

 request vide letter dated 14th October, 1987 and submitted an alternate WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.21 of 52 request for appointment of Shri Thakkar by the letter dated 19th October,

 1987. Certainly, the petitioner cannot be now heard to object that the

 rejection of his first request was incorrect or worked injustice to him in

 these facts. 54. Shri R.N. Thakkar is stated to have been on deputation to the

 Vigilance Department under the General Manager (Vigilance), Northern

 Railway at the relevant time and was not on the rolls of RPF. 55. The respondents have explained that Shri Thakkar was not a

 member of the Railway Protection Force. For this reason, he could not be

 appointed to render assistance in terms of either Rule 44(5) of the RPF

 Rules, 1959 or as `friend' in terms of Rule 153.8 of the amended RPF

 Rules, 1987. Nothing to the contrary has been brought to our notice. 56. In (1980) 3 SCC 304 Sunil Kumar Banerjee Vs. State of West

 Bengal & Ors., the Supreme Court also had an occasion to consider a

 similar objection on behalf of the appellant who appeared in person. An

 objection premised on denial of the prayer for appointment of a lawyer in

 the course of proceedings was considered and rejected by the Apex Court

 inter alia on the ground of the appellant having adequately contested the

 charges and conducted his defence as well as on the ground that the

 request by the appellant was made at a grossly belated stage. 57. The respondents have not at any point denied assistance to the

 petitioner in accordance with rules. 58. In the instant case as well the petitioner accepted the orders of the

 respondents. Perusal of the record of this case would show that the

 petitioner's communications show his ability to comprehend all nuances

 and intricacies of the disciplinary proceedings. The petitioner's replies and

 communications reflect familiarity with the applicable statutory rules and

 regulations and do not indicate any prejudice in the conduct of his WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.22 of 52 defence. The petitioner has incisively cross-examined the witnesses

 produced by the department and has examined two witnesses in defence

 as well. He has submitted detailed representations to the inquiry and

 disciplinary authority taking factual and legal objections. In the given facts and circumstances, no prejudice to the petitioner

 by denial of the defence assistant of his choice has been pointed out or

 established. This objection of the petitioner is, therefore, not sustainable

 and is hereby rejected. Whether the inquiry report is based on relevant material? 59. Learned counsel for the petitioner has assailed the findings of the

 inquiry officer and the disciplinary authority on the ground that they are

 based on no evidence. 60. In so far as the inquiry proceedings against the petitioner are

 concerned, 22 witnesses were examined in support of the charges by the

 department while the petitioner examined two witnesses in his defence.

 Copies of the documents relied upon as well as the preliminary inquiry

 report were furnished to the petitioner before he filed his defence

 statement. During the inquiry, he was afforded opportunity to cross-

 examine the witnesses; to produce and inspect documents; to defend

 himself and to lead defence evidence. The inquiry officer had pointed out

 in his report that copies of the statement of the witnesses recorded during

 the disciplinary inquiry were duly supplied to him against signatures. 61. A perusal of the report dated 30th July, 1989 would show that so far

 as the charge nos.1, 2 & 3 against the petitioner are concerned, the same

 relate to an occurrence on the 29th June, 1982 when the petitioner is

 allegedly let off some women rounded by the civil police at Etmadpur

 apprehended while committing theft of coal from a stable wagon and

 found in possession of 25 to 32 kg. stolen coal each. Charge nos.2 & 3 WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.23 of 52 relate to instructions purportedly given by the petitioner to his staff in

 respect of this incident. 62. The inquiry officer has carefully considered the evidence laid in

 support of these allegations. Reliance has been placed on the statement

 of Inspector Prem Singh of the civil police, Etmadpur who has referred in

 detail of the apprehension of the women and recovery of the stolen

 railway property in the above circumstances by SI Chander Bhan Singh

 with other civil police personnel. Inspector Prem Singh had clearly stated

 that he had informed the petitioner on the phone about the apprehension

 of nine women with stolen coal when the petitioner informed him that he

 was sending his staff for escorting the women and stolen property. It is in

 evidence that Head Constable Jagannath Dubey and constable Madan Pal

 Sharma of the RPF were so deputed by the petitioner and the

 apprehended women along with the stolen coal were handed over to

 them. SI Chander Bhan Singh of the civil police who had apprehended the

 women with the stolen coal, also appeared as a witness has corroborated

 the statement of Inspector Prem Singh. 63. The apprehension of the women with the stolen coal on 29th June,

 1982 is further established in the statements of Station Master Zorawar

 Singh from the Etmadpur station, waterman Dal Chand and SW Phoola.

 The inquiry officer had noted that Dal Chand and Phoola gave affirmative

 statements on this aspect in the preliminary inquiry held on 23rd August,

 1982. Their statements recorded seven years thereafter on 15th March,

 1989 in the departmental inquiry are contended to be evasive. The

 statements recorded during the preliminary inquiry were duly proved on

 record. In any case, no reason has been pointed out for disbelieving the

 statements of the Station Master Zorawar Singh, SI Chander Bhan Singh or

 Inspector Prem Singh who have deposed about and established the same WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.24 of 52 facts. 64. At this stage, the defence statement of the petitioner dated 26th

 March, 1983 may appropriately be adverted to here. So far as the

 incident of theft of 29th of June, 1982 is concerned, in the defence

 statement the petitioner has split the allegations against him into the

 following six heads:- Referring to the preliminary enquiry, these allegations have been

 answered by the petitioner in the said defence statement in the following

 terms:- (Underlining by us) 65. The petitioner has referred to the depositions of the witnesses

 whose statements were recorded in the preliminary inquiry. However, the

 petitioner does not dispute that the SHO of the police station Etmadpur

 informed him about the apprehension of the women and the recovery of

 the stolen coal. There is clear admission by the petitioner of several

 material facts, especially knowledge of the incident in his defence

 statement. 66. The discussion recorded by the inquiry officer shows that it was

 adequately established on record that the petitioner was clearly informed

 about the apprehension of the nine women who were caught stealing coal

 and the stolen property in their possession. The inquiry officer has found

 that head constable Jagannath Dubey and constable Madan Lal Sharma

 were deputed by the petitioner for escorting the women and the stolen

 coal from the police station Etmadpur to Tundla. There is evidence that

 these two RPF personnel did not record their movements to and fro WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.26 of 52 Etmadpur in the records of the force. However, it is in the evidence of

 constable Madan Pal Sharma that a DDE No.73 was recorded by Constable

 Madan Pal Sharma in the roznamcha with regard to mounting for patrol

 duty at 2126 hours. The inquiry officer has found that the said Constable

 Sharma was late in mounting duty for the reason of delay in returning

 from Etmadpur with the apprehended women and stolen coal. 67. More serious in the whole incident is the fact that there is no record

 at all about any of the women who were escorted by these two RPF

 personnel from Etmadpur to Tundla at the Railway Protection Force post

 which was under the control of the petitioner. There is no record also of

 the stolen coal with which they were apprehended at Etmadpur and

 escorted to Tundla. The inquiry officer has found these facts sufficient to

 clearly establish the complacency of the petitioner who was posted at the

 RPF Tundla as an inspector and was admittedly in a position of authority

 to exercise jurisdiction. 68. Learned counsel for the petitioner places strong emphasis on the

 inability of SI Chander Singh to identify Head Constable Jagannath Dubey

 & Constable M.P. Sharma as the RPF personnel who had escorted the

 women before the inquiry officer. The inability of this witness to identify

 these two persons has to be tested in the light of the fact that a witness

 was a serving police official at Etmadpur on the date of the incident and

 would have seen the RPF personnel only once when they visited Etmadpur

 to take charge of the women and stolen coal. The time gap of several

 years between when the witness saw these RPF personnel and the date of

 his deposition in the enquiry also requires to be borne in mind. The

 statement of this witness cannot be seen disjunctively. The same has to

 be tested against other circumstances established in the evidence with

 regard to these two persons having been assigned the task of taking WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.27 of 52 custody of the women with the stolen coal. 69. While learned counsel for the petitioner would suggest that the

 inferences and findings arrived at by the inquiry officer which have been

 accepted by the disciplinary authority are based on conjectures and are

 unsupported by material on record, learned counsel for the respondents

 has urged that the evidence brought on record has to be examined based

 on probability and preponderance of possibility. The evidence brought on

 record has also to be tested against the aforenoticed admissions made by

 the petitioner in the reply dated 26th March, 1983. Shri Jagannath Dubey

 and Shri M.P. Sharma also made statements to the effect that the women

 were brought to Tundla, though they attempt to create a contradictions

 on record as to whether they were brought to the petitioner's residence or

 to the RPF post. We find from the record that disciplinary proceedings

 were drawn against these two RPF personnel as well with regard to their

 conduct relating to the same incident and they were obviously interested

 in creating confusion in the evidence to create a facade of contradictions

 so as to save their own skin. 70. So far as the registration of the case by the civil police is concerned,

 it has been pointed out by Mr. J.P. Sharma, learned counsel for the

 respondents, that the theft of the property in the custody of the railways

 is an offence under Section 3 of the Railway Property (Unlawful

 Possession) Act, 1966 (hereinafter referred to as "Railway Property Act,

 1966" for brevity) which is a non-cognizable offence under Section 5 of

 the same enactment. That is why the civil police handed over the

 offenders to the RPF staff at Tundla for further action. 71. Reliance has also been placed on Section 7 of the Railway Property

 Act, 1966 to contend that the SHO at Etmadpur had no option but to

 forward the offenders at the nearest RPF post and for this reason was WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.28 of 52 bound to hand over the nine women found stealing coal and in possession

 of stolen property forthwith to RPF, Tundla which alone would have

 jurisdiction to proceed against the offenders. 72. Learned counsel for the petitioner has contended that there is no

 documentary or other evidence at all of the happenings which have taken

 place at the RPF post at Tundla. This lack of record is the subject matter

 of the very charges against the petitioner. The fact that none of the

 occurrences on the 29th June, 1982 were documented, is one of the

 circumstances in the chain of evidence that clearly points towards the

 culpability of the petitioner. In his defence statement dated 26th March,

 1983, the petitioner has contended that the SHO from the Etmadpur did

 not send the papers nor any witnesses to enable him to register the case

 against "those women". He clearly states in para (i) that the local RPF

 staff under his command had arrested them more than once. The

 petitioner therefore shows his awareness of the identity of the women

 which could be possible only if he had seen the women apprehended that

 day. Knowledge of the fact that women were apprehended at Etmadpur

 with stolen property of the railways on the given date is made out from

 the petitioner's defence statement. 73. We find that an effort has been made by the petitioner to indulge in

 legalese to avoid liability contending that Etmadpur was a non-RPF

 station. The petitioner has tried to attribute fault to the SHO of the

 Etmadpur station contending that copies of the police record were not

 sent for registration of the case. However, the petitioner does not deny

 that the women were forwarded to the RPF post, Tundla through RPF

 personnel, namely head constable J.N. Dubey and constable M.P. Sharma.

 The petitioner does not even suggest any action taken by him after

 receipt of the information of such a serious matter involving theft of coal WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.29 of 52 from the railway wagon by nine women and recovery of large quantities of

 stolen coal from them when he clearly had knowledge of the same. 74. The petitioner suggests that "arrest by the police would not have

 been believed by any court in the absence of any entry in the GD and FIR

 of the police station". The inaction despite knowledge of the

 apprehension of the women and recovery of the large amount of stolen

 coal is adequately established on record. As incharge of the post and

 inspector of the force, a solemn duty lay upon the petitioner not only to

 take action in respect of the disclosed offence and the apprehended

 offenders but action was also required to be taken also with regard to the

 recovered property which was a large quantity of stolen coal. No record

 was permitted to be made of the dispatch of two RPF personnel to

 Etmadpur nor is there any evidence of the petitioner taking any action at

 all. On the contrary, it is in evidence that a DDE No.60 was recorded by

 the petitioner at 1755 hours of his departure for his quarters. The

 evidence does not disclose that the petitioner made even a follow up

 phone call to the SHO of the Civil Police at Etmadpur or take any action.

 Such acts and omissions cannot be viewed lightly and the conduct of the

 petitioner deserves the seriousness with which it has been viewed. 75. So far as the allegations of ulterior motive is concerned, motive is a

 state of mind. The disciplinary authority in the order dated 14th

 September, 1989 has noted that no evidence with regard to ulterior

 motive attributed as part of the first charge, was available. The

 disciplinary authority has held that the very fact that the women were left

 without even registering a case given the fact that the petitioner was in a

 position of authority and had knowledge of the incident as given to him by

 the civil police at Etmadpur, gave rise to strong circumstantial evidence of

 the ulterior motive attributable to the petitioner. It is also not known as to WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.30 of 52 what has happened to the recovered stolen coal. 76. With regard to charge nos.4, 5 & 6 the inquiry officer found that

 fourth charge relating to arrest of three persons on 18 th April, 1982

 involved in a running train theft of 12 bags of rice; the failure of the

 petitioner to book them for the same, and, instead booking them for theft

 of coal to lessen the gravity of the offence with ulterior motives for

 monetary gain, could not be proved by the department. The findings of

 the inquiry officer in this behalf have been accepted by the disciplinary

 authority. However, the fifth charge to the effect that the recovered rice

 bags were made over for onward despatch as property unconnected with

 the criminal case with an ulterior motive to spoil the case of the

 prosecution and the sixth charge against the petitioner to the effect that

 he registered the case of running train theft of rice too late in time were

 found to be established on record. 77. It is on record that the Chief Goods Clerk forwarded twelve stolen

 bags to lost property officer, Kanpur as unclaimed property. The inquiry

 officer has held that twelve rice bags were made over as lost property and

 were dispatched to the goods shed for dispatch to the lost property office

 instead of their being kept in safe custody as safe property relating to a

 criminal case. An effort was also made by the petitioner to attribute the

 entire actions in this occurrence to sub Inspector J.N. Mishra, who brought

 the twelve bags of rice and wrote the memo for sending them to the

 goods shed. The inquiry officer has found that the petitioner cannot be

 exonerated of responsibility for the reason that SI J.N. Mishra was under 78. The impact of sending these rice bags as unclaimed or lost property

 was clear. They could have been so sent only if they were not case

 property in any offence and, therefore, not much important. To put it

 plainly, as per the dispatch record, these bags were not property which

 had been stolen from the train. The petitioner, an experienced officer,

 cannot deny knowledge of the manner in which he was required to

 proceed in a theft case. Such action as taken was obviously intended to

 dilute the case of theft of the railway property by the accused. 79. So far as charge no.6 relating to the delay in recording of the FIR of

 the case is concerned, the inquiry officer has found that the recovery of

 12 bags and the shortage of rice in the railway wagon should have been

 registered as a running train theft case and included in the monthly crime

 review for April, 1992. This was, however, not done. When ordered to

 do so by the ASO/TDN vide his letter dated 24 th May, 1982, the case was

 registered as a running train theft case only on 26th May, 1982 which was

 more than a month after the date of the incident. The disciplinary

 authority has noted the responsibility of the petitioner as incharge of the

 RPF post to have properly registered the case. The disciplinary authority

 had also observed that it was for the petitioner to obtain details of the

 shortage and get the FIR lodged with the GRP which he failed to do. WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.32 of 52 Reliance of the petitioner on the circular of the Railway Board to the effect

 that the registration of the case should be effected at the destination, has

 been held to be unfounded for the reason that the circular relates to a

 case where the offence is not localised and the deficiency is discovered at

 the destination. In his discussion, the disciplinary authority has found that

 in the instant case, the stolen bags were recovered on the rail track which

 was clearly located within the petitioner's jurisdiction but he still failed to

 perform prescribed duties. For this reason, charge 6 was also found to

 have been clearly established against the petitioner. 80. Charge no.7 against the petitioner was to the effect that he did not

 arrest the persons involved in the theft despite full knowledge about their

 identity for monetary gain has also been disbelieved. 81. However, charge no.8 to the effect that he made no effort to recover

 the twelve bags of rice stood proved against the petitioner. The inquriy

 officer held that the recovery of twelve bags of stolen rice stands duly

 proved. The recovery was found proved in the statement of ASI S.N.

 Tiwari. 82. So far as charge no.9 is concerned, the inquiry officer had examined

 the record and found that RP (UP) Act case No.33/1982 was registered

 against one Rajbir & Mahesh. While Rajbir was arrested, Mahesh was

 absconding. The inquiry officer has mentioned that the witnesses had

 given evidence of familiarity with the absconding accused and therefore

 could recognize him. It was observed that his co-accused and associate,

 Rajbir, stood arrested and that Tundla was a small station. These facts

 coupled with the familiarity with the absconding accused of the five

 witnesses have led the inquiry officer to hold that there was no warrant for

 the petitioner's inability to arrest the absconder. The lack of efforts and

 failure of the petitioner to arrest Mahesh before he surrendered in court WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.33 of 52 on 26th April, 1982 is a strong circumstance pointing towards the guilt of

 the petitioner so far as this charge is concerned. The inquiry officer has

 observed that in his defence, the petitioner led evidence to show the

 efforts made by him to interrogate Rajbir placing reliance on the case

 diary and documents and held that these facts have no bearing on the

 case or with the accused Mahesh. The petitioner's explanation for not arresting Mahesh is to be found

 in DDE No.3 dated 14th April, 1982 wherein the petitioner has recorded

 that the arrest of this accused could not be effected for want of an

 identification mark. The inquiry officer has observed that accused Mahesh

 was well known in the town and was also an employee of the Indian

 Railway and such explanation by the petitioner was not credible. 83. So far as the allegations in charge 10 to the effect that the

 petitioner accepted Rs.1,000/- as illegal gratification from Mahesh for not

 arresting him till 26th April, 1982 is concerned, the inquiry officer has held

 that the same was not proved. The conclusions of the inquiry officer have

 been accepted by the disciplinary authority. 84. Our attention has been drawn to the pronouncement of the Apex

 Court reported at ( 1997) 4 SCC 565 Tara Chand Vyas Vs. Chairman

 & Disciplinary Authority & Ors. in the context of departmental inquiry.

 The Supreme Court has observed that the inquiry officer had elaborately

 discussed each charge and given reasons which were considered by the

 disciplinary and appellate authority before concluding that the charges

 stood proved. The petitioner had raised the objection that the inquiry was

 vitiated for the reason that in order to support the proof of the charges,

 none of the witnesses had been examined nor any opportunity was given

 to cross-examine them when the petitioner disputed liability. The inquiry

 officer had discussed the evidence in detail and given reasons for the WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.34 of 52 findings returned by him in the inquiry report. Rejecting the contention of

 the petitioner, the court held as follows:- 85. The principles with regard to the standard of proof which applies in

 disciplinary inquiry proceedings are also well settled in pronouncements of

 the Apex Court. Mr. J.P. Sharma, learned counsel for the respondents has

 drawn our attention to the pronouncement reported at AIR 2008 SC

 1162 Employers Management West Bokaro Colliery of M/s TISCO

 Ltd. Vs. The Concerned Workman, Ram Pravesh Singh wherein the

 respondents had challenged the findings of the inquiry officer as to

 misconduct by the workmen on the ground that no independent witness

 were examined. The court held that once the findings of the inquiry

 officer are found to be based on evidence, the court is not to substitute

 the findings of the inquiry officer by its own opinion. The Supreme Court

 reversed the order of the tribunal which had set aside the report of the

 inquiry officer and the order of dismissal passed by the punishing

 authority. In this regard, in paras 15, 16 & 19 of the judgment, the court

 placed reliance on the earlier pronouncements which were as follows:- 16. In U.P. State Road Transport Corporation v. Vinod Kumar (2007) (13) SCALE 690), this Court again observed that in
 the absence of a challenge to the legality or fairness of the
 domestic enquiry, the Court should be reluctant to either
 interfere with the finding recorded by the Enquiry Officer or
 the punishment awarded by the Punishing Authority. xxx xxx xxx 19. Tribunal has set aside the report of the Enquiry Officer
 and the order of dismissal passed by the Punishing Authority
 by observing that the charges against the respondent were
 not proved beyond reasonable doubt. It has repeatedly
 been held by this Court that the acquittal in a criminal case
 would not operate as a bar for drawing up of a disciplinary
 proceeding against a delinquent. It is well settled principle
 of law that yardstick and standard of proof in a criminal case
 is different from the one in disciplinary proceedings. While
 the standard of proof in a criminal case is proof beyond all
 reasonable doubt, the standard of proof in a departmental
 proceeding is preponderance of probabilities." (underlining by us) 86. On the same issue, in the judgment reported at 2005 (2) Kar LJ 47

 D. Murlidhar Vs. Central Bank of India, the court held as follows:- (Emphasis supplied) 87. In High Court of Judicature at Bombay Vs. Shashikant S.

 Patil (supra), also the Supreme Court set out the parameters of judicial

 review into the orders of departmental authorities in para 16 laying down

 the following principles:- (Emphasis supplied) 88. In AIR 1970 SC 748 The Union of India & Ors. Vs. K. Rajappa

 Menon , the court had occasion to consider a challenge to the order of

 disciplinary authority on the ground that it did not record its findings on

 each charge despite the rule requiring the same. In this behalf, the court

 had held as follows:- (underlining by us) 89. The findings of the inquiry officer were placed before the disciplinary

 authority who has considered them in detail. In this regard, reference can

 also be usefully made to the judgment reported at 1969 ( 1) SCC 502

 Railway Board Representing The Union of India Vs. Niranjan Singh wherein a question was raised as to whether the appellate court was right

 in its view that if an order of removal is based on number of grounds and

 one or more of these grounds are found to be unsustainable, the entire

 order is required to be struck down. On this issue, in para 7 of the

 judgment, the court observed as follows:- 90. It, therefore, needs no further elaboration that the departmental

 proceedings and orders emanating therefrom are not like proceedings or

 orders by courts. The standard of proof which has to be applied is

 preponderance of probabilities. Furthermore, punishment can be imposed

 on any finding of a substantial misdemeanor, without regard to other

 charges which have been found as unproved. 91. In the instant case, the charge nos.4, 7 & 10 were held by the

 inquiry officer to be not proved whereas the inquiry officer found that WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.39 of 52 charge nos.1, 2 & 3 relating to one incident; charge nos. 5 & 6 relating to

 the second incident and charge nos.9 relating to the third incident had

 been established. The findings were based on detailed reasons recorded

 by the inquiry officer. The report of the inquiry officer was considered by

 the disciplinary authority who then passed the impugned order dated 14th

 September, 1989 concurring with the findings of the disciplinary authority. 92. The available material and circumstances as established when

 tested on standards of preponderance of possibility, lead to the

 reasonable and inevitable conclusion of the guilt of the petitioner in

 respect of the acts alleged against him for which he has been found guilty.

 The findings reflect application of mind in the matters in issue. 93. In this background, the Appellate Authority in the order dated 15th

 June, 1990 has also agreed with the findings and conclusions of the

 disciplinary authority. 94. The Appellate Authority had observed that, belying the petitioner's

 contention, his conduct shows no sense of urgency inasmuch as the

 petitioner has made no efforts to locate the absconding accused in his

 official capacity. The disciplinary and Appellate Authority had observed

 that such conduct would only infer the factum of illegal gratification.

 However, the findings returned by the inquiry officer on charge no.10

 have not been reversed. 95. It is trite that it is only if findings recorded by the inquiry officer and

 the disciplinary authority are perverse; not supported by evidence on

 record or findings recorded at the domestic trial are such as to which

 ordinary or prudent man would reach, would the power of judicial review

 be available to this court to interfere with conclusions so reached. 96. Reference in this regard can be made to the judgments reported at

 ( 1999) 7 SCC 739 Yoginath D. Bagde Vs. State of Maharashtra & WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.40 of 52 Anr. & ( 2001) 1 SCC 182 Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam Ltd. Vs.

 Girija Shankar Pant & Ors . 97. In Yoginath D. Bagde Vs. State of Maharashtra & Anr. (supra), the observations of the court in para 51 set out the limitation on

 the exercise of power of judicial review may usefully be adverted to and

 read as follows:- 98. In para 19 of the Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam Ltd. Vs. Girija

 Shankar Pant & Ors (supra), the observations of the court shed

 valuable light on the permissibility of the challenge by the petitioner and

 may usefully be adverted to. The same reads as follows:- (Underlining supplied) 99. Learned counsel for the petitioner has contended that charge nos.9

 & 10 were composite charges and the petitioner having been exonerated

 of charge no.10, no culpability for the allegations which form part of

 charge no.9 could have been found. 100. On the other hand, Mr. Sharma, learned counsel for the respondents

 has urged that in the previous statements recorded in the preliminary

 inquiry, witnesses had given statements in support of this charge.

 However, before the inquiry officer, they resiled from their previous

 statements. As a result, the inquiry officer held that the charge of

 negotiating the bribe has not been proved. However, the failure to arrest

 Mahesh Khalasi, a railway employee, despite arrest of his co-accused was

 held to be unjustified and, therefore, suspicious. WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.42 of 52 101. In view of the above discussion, the charge nos.4, 7 & 10 being

 found unproved against the petitioner would have no bearing on his

 culpability of the other charges against him. 102. The petitioner has assailed the orders against him not on the ground

 that there was no evidence led against him but on grounds of sufficiency

 of the evidence to support the charges. Such a challenge is clearly

 beyond the permissible limits of judicial review laid down by the Supreme

 Court in the judgments noticed above. Submissions on these aspects

 were permitted in view of the long period since the commencement of the

 action against the petitioner. The challenge by the petitioner based on

 evidence is clearly devoid of legal merit especially having regard to the

 required standard of proof in these proceedings. 103. So far as the delay in finalisation of the report of the Appellate

 Authority is concerned, it is explained that the record of the inquiry was

 voluminous and examination thereof was time consuming. For this

 reason, the Appellate Authority took that much longer in deciding the

 appeal. 104. The petitioner has placed reliance on Rule 220 of the Railway

 Protection Force Rules, 1987 which reads as follows:- 105. Rule 220 of the RPF Rules 1987 only states that appeal or revision

 by an enrolled member shall as far as possible be disposed of within three

 months from the date of its receipt by the authority. It does not set an

 absolute time limit for the disposal of the appeal or revision. Given the

 reasonable and plausible explanation and reasons rendered by the WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.43 of 52 authorities for the delay which has occasioned in the present case, the

 orders passed by the appellate authority cannot be faulted on the ground

 that the impugned orders were belated. The challenge to the orders of the disciplinary & appellate authority

 on the ground that they are based on no material or on irrelevant material

 is without merit and is hereby rejected. Whether the order of dismissal has been passed by a competent authority 106. The petitioner contends that the Chief Security Commissioner/RPF

 who passed the order dated 14th September, 1989 was not the competent

 authority to pass the impugned order in view of Rule 40 of the RPF Rules,

 1987. 107. So far as this submission is concerned, our attention has been drawn

 to Rule 25 & 40 read with Schedules II & III of the RPF Rules, 1987 which

 prescribes the administrative and disciplinary powers respectively of the

 superior officers of the force. Rules 25 & 40 of the RPF Rules, 1987 read

 as under:- 108. The petitioner was posted and working as Inspector RPF/Reader to WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.44 of 52 the Senior Divisional Security Commissioner, RPF, Northern Railway, New

 Delhi under the administrative control of the Chief Security

 Commissioner/RPF/Northern Railway. Under Schedule II of the Railway

 Protection Force Rules, 1987, the Chief Security Commissioner is also the

 competent disciplinary authority so far as an inspector is concerned. 109. The provision dealing with dismissal, removal etc. and members of

 the Force is contained in Section 9 of the RPF Act which reads as follows:- Provided that no order imposing an enhanced penalty under
 sub section (2) shall be made unless a reasonable
 opportunity of being heard has been given to the person
 affected by such order." 110. The issue relating to the competency of an officer to dismiss a force WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.45 of 52 personnel from service had arisen for consideration before the Supreme

 Court in AIR 1993 SC 205 Union of India & Ors. Vs. Rajendra Singh

 & Union of India & Anr. Vs. Chandra Pal Pandey. The court

 construed the effect of Section 9 of the Act in the following terms:- If only the Chief Security. Officer, who is one of the superior
 officers, alone have the powers of dismissal on the
 hypothesis that he alone was competent to appoint
 members of the Force then Section 9 of the Act would not
 have been worded in the manner it has been so enacted. xxx xxx xxx 17. In this view of the matter we are of the view that since
 both the contesting respondents in the aforesaid two cases
 were appointed by the Assistant Security Officer who could
 also remove them and, therefore, their dismissals have not
 been in violation of Article 311 of the Constitution of India
 or the Act. 111. In view of Section 9 of the Act, any superior officer may dismiss any

 member of the force whom he shall think remiss or negligent in the

 discharge of his duty or unfit for the same subject to the provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution and to rules framed in this regard. 112. The communication dated 15th September, 1989 informs the

 petitioner that the penalty has been awarded to him by the Chief Security

 Commissioner who had also appointed the petitioner. 113. The objection of the petitioner on this count is therefore devoid of

 legal merit and is hereby rejected. Whether sufficient time granted to file defence statement? 114. The petitioner has placed reliance on the provisions of Rule 153.15

 of the RPF Rules, 1987 before us contending that he was entitled to ten

 days time to file the written statement of defence. Perusal of Rule 153.15 WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.46 of 52 would show that after the evidence of the department has been recorded

 in terms of Rule 152(1)(2) and documentary exhibits taken on record in

 compliance with Rule 153.15, the party charged is required to get his

 statement recorded by the inquiry officer. If the officer pleads "not

 guilty", the rule mandates that he shall be required to file, within ten

 days, a written statement together with the list of such witnesses as he

 may wish to produce in his defence, giving therein a gist of evidence of

 each witness. If the charged officer declines to file defence statement, he

 shall again be examined by the inquiry officer on the expiry of the period

 allowed to him to file his defence statement in case the same is not

 recorded. 115. The petitioner has contended that the letter dated 20th July, 1989

 from the inquiry officer rejecting the documents sought by the petitioner

 on the ground of their being not relevant, was received by him only on

 25th July, 1989. This communication required the petitioner to file his final

 defence statement by the 26th July, 1989. The petitioner's request for ten

 days time to file the defence statement made on 26th July, 1989 was

 rejected by the letter of the same date itself directing the petitioner to file

 a defence statement earliest by 27th July, 1989. 116. The petitioner has placed reliance on his letter dated 26th July, 1989

 wherein he complained that denial of reasonable time to prepare the

 defence statement as well as denial of the supply of documents sought

 by applications dated 28th June, 1989, 14th July, 1989 and 26th July, 1989

 have compelled him to state that he had nothing to say except what had

 already been stated in reply to the charge-sheet. The petitioner further

 submitted that he would have been in a position to answer only in case he

 was supplied these documents. 117. So far as this objection is concerned, the rule relied upon by the WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.47 of 52 petitioner states that defence statement is to be filed within ten days of

 the prosecution evidence getting over and recording of the plea of the

 petitioner. In case of a plea of "not guilty", then the rule postulates that

 the charged person shall file within ten days his written statement

 together with the list of witnesses which he may wish to produce in his

 defence, with a gist of the evidence of each witness. 118. We find that the last prosecution witness was examined on the 9th of

 June, 1989. 119. Our attention has been drawn to the communication dated 14th June,

 1989 addressed by Shri R.K. Mishra, the inquiry officer to the petitioner

 and the four other persons against whom also the inquiry proceedings

 were being held. This communication manifests that the statements of

 the prosecution witnesses stood recorded during the departmental inquiry

 in the presence of the petitioner who was also granted full opportunity to

 cross-examine the witnesses. The inquiry officer records that the

 statements of witnesses recorded during the inquiry proceedings stood

 delivered to the petitioner for preparing his defence. 120. The petitioner was informed vide communication dated 14th June,

 1989 that he was required to prepare his defence and that his statement

 would be recorded on 16th June, 1989 as a defence witness in the inquiry

 of sub-inspector Harshwardhan. On 16th June, 1989, the inquiry was fixed

 for 24th June, 1989. The petitioner did not attend the inquiry on 24 th June,

 1989 but submitted the request for documents vide letter dated 28th June,

 1989. 121. As noted above, these copies were again furnished on 14 th July,

 1989 even though the request of the petitioner stood dismissed by the

 inquiry officer on 6th July, 1989. It may be noted that after this, by the

 communication dated 14th of July, 1989, the petitioner dropped the names WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.48 of 52 of head constable Jagannath Dubey and Madan Pal Sharma as his defence

 witnesses. 122. The inquiry was being conducted with regard to a chargesheet

 issued on 12th January, 1983 relating to the allegations of the year 1982.

 In the above background, the respondents have submitted that the

 dilatory tactics of the petitioner have contributed to the delay in the

 completion of the inquiry and consequently, vide letter dated 20 th July,

 1989, the petitioner was informed that the defence statement had to be

 submitted by 26th July, 1989 at the earliest. It is noteworthy that by then

 almost forty seven days had passed after the completion of the

 prosecution evidence on 9th June, 1989 and over forty days since 14th of

 June, 1989 informing the petitioner that he was required to prepare his

 defence. In this background, it is evident that there was compliance of

 the rule requirements and that the petitioner was given adequate time to

 prepare and submit his defence statement. 123. In any event, the petitioner should have specifically pleaded and

 demonstrated the prejudice that he may have suffered on account of the

 alleged denial of sufficient time to submit his defence statement. No

 specific plea was raised by the petitioner in this regard in his

 departmental appeal. It is not sufficient that a bare statement about

 suffering of prejudice is made. How the prejudice has been suffered

 should also be stated. Therefore, the petitioner should have pointed out

 at the appellate stage, or at least before us, as to what further he could

 have stated in his defence statement than what was stated by him, had

 he been given further time to submit his defence statement, and how the

 same could have impacted the ultimate decision taken in his case.

 However, no such averments are found either in the departmental appeal

 preferred by the petitioner, nor in the present writ petition. We are, WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.49 of 52 therefore, of the view that the petitioner has not suffered any prejudice

 due to him being deprived of further time to submit his defence

 statement. 124. So far as appellate order dated 15th June, 1990 passed by Shri R.

 Sreedharan, Director General of the RPF is concerned, the same has

 discussed the objections raised by the petitioner in detail including the

 evidence and the alleged contradictions pointed out by the petitioner. 125. This objection may be tested from another angle. Even if it were to

 be held, which in our view cannot be, that sufficient time was not granted

 to the petitioner to submit his defence statement, a further issue would

 still require to be answered. What is the prejudice which resulted to the

 petitioner thereby? Neither any submission nor any material on this

 aspect has been set out even in the appeal filed by the petitioner which

 stands rejected by the order dated 15th of June, 1990. The petitioner does

 not point out anything more in the appeal that he would have said if he

 had been given more time to file his defence. There is nothing material

 on this aspect even in the writ petition. It may be noted that in the appeal dated 16th October, 1989, which

 had been filed by the petitioner, reliance was placed on Rule 44 which

 also provided that at the conclusion of the prosecution evidence, the party

 charged should be asked to file his final defence statement or to make a

 statement. The petitioner does not even advert to any particular time

 period, let alone explain or make out a case of prejudice. 126. The above discussion would also show that having regard to the

 long passage of time since 1982 when the alleged incidents occurred; the

 seven year period when the enquiry remained pending; the period of

 almost twenty years that the writ petition has remained pending and the

 serious rights of the petitioner which are involved, we have permitted WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.50 of 52 detailed submission by the parties on every aspect of the matter,

 including those relating to the evidence led by both sides on the

 allegations made against the petitioner. No element of prejudice which could effect the result of the inquiry

 could be pointed out on behalf of the petitioner. In this background, even

 if there was infarction of the said rule, in our view the same would not be

 fatal to the case of the respondents and the impugned orders cannot be

 quashed on such ground. 127. During the course of submission in the instant case, in view of the

 petitioner's plea that there was no evidence to support the charges before

 the inquiry officer, we had asked the respondents to produce the record of

 the case. Despite several opportunities, the record has not been

 produced before us. The respondents finally filed an affidavit of Shri

 Ratan Chand, Senior Divisional Security Commissioner, RPF, Delhi, West

 Division, P.K. Road, New Delhi to the effect that after an effort made

 pursuant to the orders of this court on 12th October, 2009 to cause the

 original record of the inquiry proceedings to be produced, it was then

 revealed to the dealing assistant that the D & AR file of this case was

 missing. The erstwhile Delhi Division of the RPF/Northern Railway has also

 been since bifurcated into 11 divisions and headquarters have also been

 formed. It is disclosed in this affidavit that the files pertaining to the D &

 AR of the case are not traceable and that an inquiry has been ordered to

 fix responsibility of the staff for the loss of D & AR files. In this background, a part of the original record of the inquiry was

 reconstructed from the documents available with the petitioner which

 record was examined by us. Both parties have made submissions based

 on this reconstructed records and copies of such extracts of the records

 which had been filed during the pendency of the writ petition. WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.51 of 52 Conclusions 128. We find that the findings and orders of the disciplinary authority and

 the Appellate Authority would show that other than the evidence to

 support the charge of ulterior motive, which formed part of charge no.1

 and charge nos.4, 7 & 10, all other charges were supported by oral and

 documentary evidence as well. The conclusions drawn by the inquiry

 officer, the order dated 14th September, 1989 of the Disciplinary and order

 dated 15th of June, 1990 of the Appellate Authority cannot be faulted on

 any legally tenable grounds. The orders reflect application of mind and

 detailed consideration. We find no merit in this writ petition which is according dismissed. (GITA MITTAL)
 JUDGE

 (VIPIN SANGHI)
 JUDGE

 July 16th, 2010
 aa WP (C) No.2749/1990 Page No.52 of 52