SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Help: Its been almost a year I can't move on.
DATE: 2022-10-22
SCORE: 36
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/yasgrn/help_its_been_almost_a_year_i_cant_move_on/

--- POST TEXT ---

I 22f (kolkata) met this guy 36(kerala) on a sugar website in 2020 October . Strictly used it for doing online arrangements temporarily during covid lockdown because of my financial situation. 
He got close to me talking over a month and wanted me to meet him so he can eventually marry me.
I dodged him until November of 2020 then decided to go meet him in kerala since he was so persistent and he would claim that he doesn't want to live since he needs me.
After I met him he would coerce me into getting physical.He was supposed to take me to his house where he lives with his mom instead took me at a hotel.I denied and wanted to leave he would constantly cry manipulate me into getting physical. At the time I was a virgin and had a strong belief in sex after marriage also had my fears since I knew it would hurt the first time. 
I stayed at the hotel for over a month with no money in my account I couldn't leave the hotel I was finally convinced by him that he loves me wants to have a family and is serious about me.
Although we fought and everytime I tried to leave he would make me stay and after attempts to have sex for over a month one day he raped me while I was helplessly screaming asking him to stop because I was bleeding.
Later that day he promised to take care of my college and every other need because he wanted to have a family which he did.
I already had my doubts and it turns out he was married but lived with his mom.
He also had a huge porn addiction, alcohol and smoke problem plus he had been to prison for a fraud case.
After a year of abusive relationship I decided to give up and I tried to report him but wasn't successful. Later I tried to commit suicide but I was luckily taken to hospital on time.
Then he texts me saying that I deserve better so I realized I should give up on him.
It's been almost a year now I'm still haunted by his memories and I still want him back I just keep myself in control. I feel hopeless since I can't love anyone as much as I loved him at the same time I know it's so disgusting to love someone who raped me.
I tried therapy meditation I try to keep myself busy all the time but I really need help . I keep wondering how is it possible to get over someone I believed was my first and last love.
I fear I will never love again or get physical with anyone else ever.