YASHWANT VARMA, J. 1. Aggrieved by the denial of an ad interim injunction by the
 learned Single Judge in terms of the impugned judgment dated 24
 February 2023, the plaintiff has instituted the present appeal. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 1 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 2. The suit itself had been preferred alleging passing off of the
 trade name ―BOLT‖ by the defendants. Along with the suit, an
 application for grant of ad interim relief was also moved. It is the said
 application which has come to be rejected by the learned Single Judge
 leading to the filing of the instant appeal. For the purposes of
 evaluating the challenge as addressed in this appeal, it would be
 appropriate to notice the following essential facts. 3. The appellant formerly known as Taxify OU was incorporated
 in Estonia as a taxi aggregator purporting to provide ride-hailing
 services to customers in Tallinn, Estonia and Riga, Latvia. The
 services were commercially launched in August 2013. The
 plaintiff/appellant is stated to have extended its operations globally in
 2014. This led to its services being made available in over 45
 countries in Europe, Africa, West Asia, South America and Latin
 America. In 2018, the appellant adopted the brand name ―BOLT‖
 while in connection with the provisioning of services relating to ride-
 hailing, food and grocery delivery, rental of cars, e-bikes and scooters
 as well as electric vehicles. 4. The plaintiff claims to have earned revenues from the use of its
 trademark ―BOLT‖ to the tune of €80 million in 2018, €148 million in
 2019, €221 million in 2020 and €500 million in 2021. It is also its case
 that it had expended an amount of approximately €61 million in 2021
 while advertising its brand and undertaking promotional activities.
 The mark itself has obtained registrations in 92 jurisdictions
 worldwide. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 2 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 5. Before the learned Single Judge, the appellant has referred to
 two articles appearing in the CNBC in its editions dated 02 April 2019
 and 10 June 2019 alluding to the launch of its services in Madrid
 following a rollout in Paris in the previous year as well as in London. 6. Insofar as Electric Vehicle1 charging stations are concerned
 and which appears to have formed the focal point of the proceedings
 which ensued before the learned Single Judge, the appellant is stated
 to have introduced the said service sometime in October 2021 in
 Tallin, Estonia. 7. In order to buttress its claim for the grant of ad interim reliefs,
 the appellant also referred to advertising campaigns which were
 launched in February 2020 cutting across various cities in India
 including Ahmedabad, Pune, Surat, Chennai and Kolkata on its
 mobile app and which is stated to have touched over 30 lakh
 customers in India. 8. The first respondent came to be incorporated in February 2020.
 The respondent placed reliance on numerous public posts appearing
 on social media platforms in October 2020 announcing the impending
 launch of its EV charging network under the brand ―REVOS Bolt‖
 followed by various other public posts on 16 October 2020 explaining
 in some detail the features relating to its BOLT EV chargers. They
 also refer to various invoices of November 2020 showing sale of its
 BOLT chargers. On 14 July 2021, the respondent obtained registration 1 EV

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 3 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 of its domain name www.bolt.earth. This was followed by
 applications made before the Trademark Registry on 30 August 2021
 for the trade name ―Bolt‖ both as a word as well as a device in Class 42. A First Examination Report2 came to be generated in that
 respect on 21 September 2021 when the Registrar brought to the
 attention of the respondent the existence of marks such as US BOLT,
 GO BOLT, MONARCH BOLT, BOLT SUPPORT KE LIMITED. 9. The respondents are stated to have responded to the FER in
 terms of a communication dated 07 October 2021 asserting that the
 cited marks would not detract from their right to seek registration of
 the Bolt trademark/ trade name as well as the device mark which had
 been applied for. 10. On the record appears a blog article dated 13 October 2021
 speaking of the appellant introducing scooter charging docks on the
 streets of Tallinn. Insofar as the launch of charging docks are
 concerned, the appellant appears to have addressed the following
 submissions. The appellant asserts that its charging docks were
 launched commercially in October 2021. The said service was initially
 launched in Tallinn with the establishment of 9 charging stations. The
 launch is stated to have gained a large traction in the media across
 Estonia. As would be evident from one of the news articles which
 appears at page 1223 of the record, the appellant is stated to have
 commenced providing the service of EV charging docks as a pilot 2 FER

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 4 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 project in Tallinn and with the avowed intent to expand the same to
 other European countries. 11. On 09 December 2021, the respondent obtained a domain name
 registration in respect of www.boltevcharging.com. Upon coming
 across various articles in respect of the EV charging stations having
 been launched using the trade name ―BOLT‖, on or about March
 2022, the appellant is stated to have issued a cease and desist notice
 upon the respondent on 24 May 2022. 12. The aforesaid notice appears to have been prompted by an
 article which appeared in the Business Standard on 24 March 2022
 and which referred to the establishment of 10,000 EV charging points
 across cities in India by the respondent. It is thereafter and consequent
 to the respondent failing to desist from the usage of the Trademark
 ―BOLT‖ that the suit came to be instituted on 23 November 2022. 13. For the purposes of establishing reputation and goodwill across
 the globe, the appellant appears to have addressed the following
 contentions. 14. It was firstly averred that its goods and services are available in
 over 400 cities across 45 countries in Europe, Africa, West Asia,
 South America and Latin America. It was asserted that it has over 100
 million customers globally. It also spoke of 2.5 million drivers
 engaged by it offering rides over the BOLT platform. In terms of the
 averments made in the plaint, the appellant described itself as a global
 market leader in transportation, offering a wide bouquet of services

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 5 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 which included providing vehicles for hire, micro-mobility, car
 sharing, EV charging stations and docks and food and grocery
 delivery services. Insofar as its presence across social media platforms
 is concerned, the stand of the appellant came to be captured by the
 learned Single Judge as follows: - 15. To buttress the claim of reputation and goodwill spanning
 various nations across the globe, the appellant also appears to have
 relied upon the following news articles and which were noticed by the
 learned Single Judge as under: - ―Beating the traffic is a big issue in cities like Madrid and a lot of
 trips are much more efficiently covered with an electric scooter
 rather than a car with a driver.‖ Bolt co-founder and CEO Markus
 Villig said in a statement. ―By bringing Bolt scooters to Madrid, we're solving two things at
 once; reducing car rides as well as saving time and money for our
 customers.‖
 The move marks another stepping stone in the start-up's drive
 toward new mobility options beyond car-hailing. It recently went
 through rebranding, changing its name to Bolt, which is the same
 name it used for the Paris scooter service. It also mirrors Uber's aim to become a one-stop shop for mobility.
 The ride-hailing giant made its own push into the e-scooter market
 last year following the acquisition of bike - Bolt is also looking to
 branch out into another key area for Uber - food delivery. It
 recently announced plans to launch a competitor to Uber Eats in
 Estonia, Finland and South Africa this summer.
 As it pushes toward a renewed focus on growth, Bolt is seeking to
 raise an additional round of funding from investors. It recently
 hired a new finance chief, former Spotify SPOT executive Johan
 Bergqvist, who will be tasked with overseeing fundraising efforts at
 the firm. The company hasn't disclosed how much it's looking to raise, nor
 who the investors will be. Bolt's last big investment - which it
 secured last year when it was still known as Taxify - saw it raise
 $175 million at a $1 billion valuation. The company is backed by Chinese ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing
 and German automaker Daimler DAI-DE, which itself owns a taxi
 hire application called My Taxi. E-scooter craze

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 7 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 The dockless e-scooter market has seen massive interest form
 investors, with serious cash being pumped into the likes of Lime
 and Bird. Lime recently closed a $310 million funding deal that values the
 firm at $2.4 billion, while Bird last year raised $300 million at a $2
 billion valuation - the latter is also reportedly in talks to raise a
 further $300 million. But the battery-powered devices have seen some regulatory
 pushback in a number of cities, amid complaints that they are being
 ridden illegally on sidewalks and dumped in inappropriate places.
 San Francisco temporarily banned them last year, before granting
 permits to some start-ups in the space to let them resume
 operations. But Lime, Bird and Uber were refused licenses by the
 local authority. Madrid and Paris, meanwhile, banned e-scooters from sidewalks
 last year, while Spain's capital also banned three operators,
 including Lime, for failing to comply with its rules. Madrid's city
 hall later restored Lime's ability to operate, while Bolt and Jump
 were also granted permits. KEY POINTS
  Estonian ride-hailing start-up Bolt has raised $713 million in fresh
 funding to push into the rapidly growing online grocery delivery
 industry.  The new investment round values Bolt at about $4.75 billion, more
 than double its last private valuation of $2 billion.
  The Uber rival is branching out into new services like food
 delivery, electric scooter and bike rentals in a bid to become a
 ―super app.‖

 Economic Times
 ―Bolt, a rival of Uber's ride-sharing and food delivery business, last
 raised funding in August at a valuation of more than €4 billion.
 The company also offers electric scooter rentals, car-sharing and a
 15-minute grocery delivery service, catering to over 100 million
 customers in 45 countries and over 400 cities across Europe and
 Africa. Economic Times
 ―Uber rival Bolt raises $711 million at valuation of over $8 billion
 Synopsis
 While Uber is the biggest rival for ride-hailing, Bolt faces
 competitors in food delivery including Just Eat Takeaway.com and
 DoorDash, which entered Europe via a $8 billion purchase of Wolt. Stockholm: Estonian startup Bolt said on Tuesday it had raised
 €628 million ($711.40 million) from investors led by Sequoia
 Capital and Fidelity Management and Research Co, taking its
 valuation to €7.4 billion ($8.38 billion).‖ 16. Controverting the submissions which were addressed on facts,
 the respondents asserted that the appellant was essentially engaged in
 the business of taxi ride-hailing and that its extension into the arena of
 EV charging docks was restricted to only a few countries and, in any

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 9 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 case, could not be regarded as being substantial so as to satisfy the
 tests as enunciated in relation to transborder or worldwide reputation.
 It was further urged by the respondents that the EV charging docks
 which were ultimately installed by the appellant themselves appeared
 to be restricted to the charging of its own electric scooters. 17. The respondents further averred that it has been acknowledged
 by the appellant that the respondent was incorporated in February
 2020 and that notwithstanding the extension of EV charging dock
 services, at least till February 2020 and as per the own showing of the
 appellant it did not have a single EV charging point even for its own
 scooters anywhere in the world. 18. The defendant while asserting the right of prior use and
 adoption had referred to the following salient facts which stand
 encapsulated in paragraph 21 of the impugned judgment: - Mr Lall referred me to screenshots of the relevant social media
 posts of the defendant, which vouchsafe these assertions.‖

 The respondent thus claimed that it was the first in the market insofar
 as EV charging stations are concerned and thus no injunction being
 liable to be granted. 19. Controverting the assertions with respect to transborder
 reputation, the respondent averred before the learned Single Judge that
 for the purposes of maintaining an action based on the principles of
 passing off, it was imperative for the appellant to have established that
 it had a goodwill and reputation in India. It was submitted in this
 respect that the appellant had woefully failed to establish a significant
 presence in India, a sizable consumer base and that even the cited
 newspaper articles did not establish a ubiquitous presence and use of
 the trademark in India. 20. While dealing with the issue of transborder reputation, the
 learned Single judge has come to record the following conclusions:- border reputation, i.e. reputation which extends beyond the regions
 in which it has commercial existence, (ii) that the trans border
 reputation has extended to India and (iii) that the ―spillage‖ is so
 considerable as to confuse or deceive a customer of average
 intelligence and imperfect recollection into believing that the goods
 or services of the defendant are those of the plaintiff.‖

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 12 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 21. After exhaustively referring to the various decisions rendered
 on that subject, the learned Single Judge culled out the following
 principles as constituting the determinative criteria for the purposes of
 answering the question of cross border reputation:- Existence of goodwill and reputation has, therefore, to be shown to
 exist in India. Universal or worldwide goodwill and reputation,
 sans any evidence of territorial goodwill and reputation, is not
 sufficient. (ii) Mere reputation is not enough. The claimant/plaintiff must
 show that it has significant goodwill. (iii) The actual existence of an office of the plaintiff in the country
 of the defendant is not necessary. (iv) However, the claimant must have customers within the country
 of the defendant, as opposed to persons in the defendant's country
 who are customers elsewhere. Thus, where the claimant's business
 is carried on abroad, it is not enough for the claimant to show that
 there are people in the defendant's country who happen to be its
 customers when they are abroad. (vi) However, it would be enough if the claimant could show that
 there were people in the defendant's country who, by booking with,
 or purchasing from an entity in the defendant's country, obtained
 the right to receive the claimant's service abroad. The person from
 whom such booking or purchase took place could be the claimant,
 or its branch office, or someone acting for or on behalf of the
 claimant. (vii) The claimant must be ―present through its mark in the
 territorial jurisdiction‖ of the country of the defendant, though the
 existence of a ―real market‖ was not necessary. (viii) Such presence could, for instance, be shown by extensive
 advertisements which had been circulated and seen, or read, in the
 country of the defendant. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 13 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 (ix) Once the existence of trans border reputation and goodwill was
 thus established, the claimant was not required, further, to prove
 the existence of actual confusion. The likelihood of the customer of
 average intelligence and imperfect recollection being confused, by
 the use of the impugned mark of the defendant, that the goods or
 services of the defendant were those of the claimant-plaintiff, was
 sufficient.‖ 22. Proceeding to deal with the merits of the claim as laid by the
 plaintiff on facts, the learned Single Judge has ultimately recorded the
 following findings: - despite the commendable efforts of Ms Sukumar to convince me
 otherwise - been able to cross the Toyota5 trans-border threshold
 of goodwill and reputation. I say so, for the following reasons: sharing service in Madrid, following a roll-out the
 previous year in Paris, (b) this marked a stepping stone in the plaintiff's move
 towards new mobility options besides car hailing, (c) the electric scooter craze looked set to gain further
 ground in Europe,

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 14 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 (d) the plaintiff was promoting the advantages of
 electric scooters as a viable option to beat traffic, when
 compared to cars, (e) the plaintiff was also seeking to branch out into
 food delivery, electric scooter and bike rentals, so as to
 become a "super app", (f) for these expansions, the plaintiff was inviting
 investments from investors, and (g) the plaintiff was backed by the Chinese and
 German ―giants‖ Didi Chuxing and Daimler DAI-DE,
 which itself owned a taxi hire application My Taxi. (iii) The Economic Times article, for its part, reported that (a) the plaintiff was a rival of Uber's ride sharing and
 food delivery business, (b) Bolt also offered electric scooter rentals, car
 sharing and a 15-minute grocery delivery service, (c) these services catered to 100 million customers in
 45 countries and over 400 cities across Europe and
 Africa, (d) the plaintiff faced competition in food delivery
 from, inter alia, Just Eat, Takeaway.com and
 DoorDash, which had also largely entered Europe, and (e) to gain customers, platforms offered attractive
 discounts, leading to price wars, and the plaintiff
 claimed to be offering its services at lower prices than
 others. (iv) Neither of these articles, therefore, made even an oblique
 reference to the plaintiff entering the EV charging business.
 Regarding EV charging as ―allied‖ to electric scooter-sharing
 services would, in my view, stretching the concept of allied goods
 and services a notch too far. The import of these articles is clear
 and obvious. The plaintiff was, till then, engaged in providing taxi
 hailing services. It had, a year earlier, ventured into the electric
 scooter sharing field, in Paris. It was seeking to branch out into
 other cities in Europe and Africa. There is nothing to indicate that
 it was either engaged in providing EV charging services, or making
 EV charging points, or intending to do so any time in the

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 15 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 foreseeable future. More significantly, these articles do not suggest,
 even obliquely, that the plaintiff was expanding its activities to
 India or, for that matter, even to Asia. It cannot, therefore, be held,
 on the basis of these articles, that an average customer in India,
 who would read them, would believe that the plaintiff was
 venturing into the Indian market with EV charging solutions. (v) The defendant had not sought to contend, anywhere, that it was
 engaged, commercially, in the activity of EV charging stations, or
 in providing EV charging services. In fact, in para 12 of the plaint,
 as Mr Chander Lall correctly points out, the plaintiff has
 acknowledged that ―consumers have become accustomed to
 understanding that the trademark BOLT is a commercial sign of
 origin specifically for mobility, transportation and delivery goods
 and services". There is no reference, here, to providing EV
 charging services. (vi) The limited reference to EV charging stations installed by the
 plaintiff 34, is of charging docks installed by the plaintiff in Tallinn
 and Estonia, with plans to install further docks in Lithuania and
 Portugal, for charging the plaintiff's electric scooters. I am, prima
 facie, in agreement with Mr Lall that the mere fact that the
 plaintiff, otherwise engaged in providing taxi-hailing services and
 intending to expand into the electric scooter sharing business, was
 installing charging docks to charge its scooters in Tallinn, Estonia,
 Lithuania and Portugal, could hardly make out a case even for
 inferring the existence of trans border reputation, in the plaintiff, in
 the commercial EV charging segment, much less of permeation of
 such trans border reputation into India. (vii) The number of times the plaintiff's App has been downloaded
 in India, or its website accessed by drivers, cannot, in my prima
 facie view, make out a case of spillover of trans border reputation
 of the plaintiff, in the EV charging market, into India, even if,
 arguendo, EV charging were to be regarded as an activity allied to
 electric scooter sharing. Toyota5 is clear in requiring that, even if
 the plaintiff has no market in India, it would be required to show
 that its goods or services were purchased, or availed, by customers
 in India through the plaintiff, its branch, or its agents. The
 plaintiff's App cannot substitute as an agent of the plaintiff,
 especially as the App can be downloaded anywhere in the world. (viii) Equally, Toyota5 also approves the view, in Starbucks11, that
 the existence of customers in the defendant's country, who would
 avail the services of the plaintiff abroad, cannot make out a case of
 permeation of trans border reputation. Ms Sukumar acknowledges

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 16 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 that, even if persons in India were to download the plaintiff's App,
 no services of the plaintiff could be availed thereby in India, and
 that the purpose of such downloading would only be to avail the
 plaintiff's services abroad. The limited downloading of the
 plaintiff's App by persons who may be travelling abroad to
 countries where the plaintiff's services are available cannot, prima
 facie, be regarded as any sign of spillover of the plaintiff's
 reputation into India, much less in the EV charging arena. (ix) The ―driver survey‖, to which Ms. Sukumar drew attention,
 tells us precious little. All that is presented is a tabular statement of
 drivers in five cities. This statement is supposed to reflect the
 number of times the plaintiff's website was accessed by the drivers.
 Whether it does, or not, is anybody's guess; at the very least, it is a
 matter which would have to suffer trial even for a prima facie view
 to be ventured thereon. Even if it does, the purpose of accessing the
 website is unknown. Nor can the Court hold that the mere
 accessing of the plaintiff's website in this fashion justifies a
 finding, even prima facie, of permeation of the reputation of the
 plaintiff into India, far less in the field of EV charging, which alone
 the defendant is engaged in. (x) As in the case of Toyota5, in the present case too, the evidence
 and material cited by Ms Sukumar, even view cumulatively, do not
 constitute sufficient spillover, into India, of the trans border
 reputation, if any, possessed by the plaintiff with respect to the use
 of the mark as would justify injuncting the defendant from
 using the impugned mark for EV charging stations. (xi) Though Ms Sukumar, in rejoinder, ventured a submission that,
 even in the absence of spillover of trans border reputation, mere
 intent, on the part of the plaintiff, to enter the Indian market would
 be sufficient, the submission cannot, prima facie, merit acceptance.
 It would, moreover, fly directly in the face of the principles
 enunciated so authoritatively by the Supreme Court in Toyota5.
 Passing off is, at all times, a tort the commission of which involves
 an element of confusion or deception, and the confusion or
 deception must be suffered by the mythical customer who chances
 on the defendant's mark. For this, the awareness, by such customer,
 of the reputation of the plaintiff, is an indispensable sine qua non.
 Intent of the plaintiff to venture into the Indian market space
 cannot, therefore, substitute the necessity of spillover of trans
 border reputation. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 17 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 (xii) For the same reason, the fact that the plaintiff may have
 applied for obtaining trade mark registrations in India can have no
 impact on the issue in controversy. The customer in India is
 unaware of the number of applications submitted by the plaintiff
 for registration of its mark.‖

 It is the aforesaid reasons which ultimately weighed upon the learned
 Single Judge to deny the prayer for ad interim relief. 23. For the purposes of examining the case that was set out before
 the learned Single Judge insofar as transborder reputation is
 concerned, it would be appropriate to refer to the following facts
 which were placed by the appellant. The appellant had apart from the
 revenue which was earned by it from its taxi hailing and cognate
 services had also additionally relied upon certain articles which
 appeared in Indian publications. Those publications pertained to the
 ride hailing services being provided by the appellant and of its
 assertion of slowly emerging as a worthy rival of Uber. The articles
 also alluded to its foray in the e-scooter market and the large
 investments which were garnered by it upon entities recognizing it to
 have achieved a status of significance in the ride sharing industry
 across the globe. 24. Before the learned Single Judge, the appellant also appears to
 have referred to the large imprint of its trade name across various
 social media platforms and additionally relied upon approximately
 96,100 reviews of its BOLT mobile app on the Apple App Store and
 the 28,70.000 reviews on Google's Play Store. It also relied upon the
 two lakh downloads of its app by users in India. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 18 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 25. From the note which has been submitted for our consideration,
 we further find that the appellant is stated to have run advertising
 campaigns in February, 2020 across various Indian cities including
 Ahmedabad, Pune, Surat, Chennai and Kolkata on its mobile app
 targeting over 30 lakh customers in India. The aforesaid campaign
 which was carried on the appellant's mobile app was spearheaded by
 the slogan "Bolt ♥s India‖. 26. Speaking specifically of EV charging stations, reliance was
 principally placed on newspaper articles and blog posts which
 appeared in October 2021 and referred to the establishment of various
 EV charging stations in Tallinn, Estonia and the intent of the appellant
 to install similar charging points in Lithuania, Portugal and other
 European countries. It is, however, significant to note that the
 charging docks which were launched by the appellant appear to be
 principally aimed as an attempt to service its electric scooters which
 were available on a sharing basis. 27. In contrast to the above, the respondent had asserted that it had
 adopted the mark ―BOLT‖ for EV Chargers way back in 2018.
 Reliance also appears to have been placed on various posts which
 appeared on social media platforms such as YouTube and Instagram
 in October, 2020 evidencing the intent of the respondent of launching
 its service of charging docks in the near future. The aforesaid posts
 were followed up by uploads on social media platforms revealing
 further features of BOLT EV chargers. The respondents thus claimed

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 19 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 a priority of user dating back to 02 October 2020. They also refer to
 the establishment of 10,000 EV chargers across 60 Indian cities by
 2021. 28. The respondents have also provided details of its charging
 network which according to them spans hundred cities across India
 existing at more than 13,000 locations with 2500 charging points
 existing in the Delhi NCR region alone. The respondent has also
 referred to the significant revenue expenditure incurred by it in
 connection with promotion and publication of the brand name
 ―BOLT‖, as well as newspaper articles which were carried in leading
 periodicals in India. It is on the aforesaid factual basis that the case
 appears to have proceeded before the learned Single Judge. 29. Appearing for the appellant, Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel
 addressed the following submissions urged for our consideration. Mr.
 Sibal firstly referred to the establishment of the appellant company
 itself way back in 2013 and the adoption of the mark ―BOLT‖ as early
 as 2018 in connection with electric bikes and scooters. We were
 informed that as of 2022, the appellant was providing services in 400
 cities spread across 45 countries and catering to as many as a 100
 million customers. Mr. Sibal laid emphasis on the respondent having
 applied for trademark registration only on 30 August 2021 on a
 proposed to be used basis and thus at least two years after the
 appellant had acquired Unicorn status in 2019. It was also asserted
 that the respondent had failed to produce any evidence which may

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 20 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 have established the launch of its EV charging docks under the mark
 ―BOLT‖ prior to October 2021. 30. According to Mr. Sibal, the learned Single Judge had clearly
 erred in failing to notice the ubiquitous presence of the appellant
 across the globe in the mobility and e-scooter sharing industry and
 which was sufficiently evidenced from the compendious material
 which had been placed on the record. 31. Mr. Sibal submitted that the appellant had successfully
 established before the learned Single Judge that the appellant's
 trademark essentially represented an entity which had established a
 service which constituted a ―one stop shop‖ for mobility, ride hailing,
 e- scooters and e bikes. It was urged by Mr. Sibal that the material
 placed on the record before the learned Judge would indubitably
 establish that the appellant was the first in the world market insofar as
 electric vehicles are concerned. 32. According to Mr. Sibal, for the purposes of grant of injunction,
 it was neither imperative nor incumbent upon the appellant to have
 established that it was the first in the market with respect to EV
 chargers. It was his submission that charging docks are allied and
 cognate services and would go hand in hand with electric vehicles. 33. According to learned senior counsel, the learned Single Judge
 clearly erred in failing to appreciate that the adoption and use of the
 mark ―BOLT‖ by the respondent would have a serious impact and
 cause immense prejudice to the service of EV charging stations as

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 21 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 provided by the appellant. The submission, in essence, was that
 charging docks was a service complimentary to the fleet of electric
 vehicles which are provided by the appellant to its customers across
 the globe. 34. Mr. Sibal further contended that the learned Single Judge
 committed a manifest error in failing to notice the well-settled
 principle that an action for passing off is not liable to be restricted to
 actions taken up to the date of the proceedings but would also have to
 be tested having regard to the manner in which the business may be
 carried on in the future. Mr. Sibal in this regard relied upon the
 following passage as appearing in the decision of the Supreme Court
 in Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah3:- 35. Mr. Sibal also sought to draw sustenance from the decision
 rendered in Sona Blw Precision Forgings Ltd v. Sonae EV Private
 Limited4 and which according to him was a binding authority with
 respect to the EV charging sector constituting a single segment and
 accepting the principle of allied/cognate goods or services as
 enunciated by Courts while considering the similarity of goods offered
 by businesses and the likelihood of confusion. 36. Mr. Sibal laid emphasis on the following observations as
 appearing in that decision: - as "akin in origin, nature or quality". Reference may also be
 made to New Webster's Dictionary and Thesaurus of the
 English Language, 1992 which defines "Allied" as "relating
 in subject or kind" and "Cognate" as "1. adj. having a 4 2022 SCC OnLine Del 2321

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 23 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 common ancestor or origin (of languages or words) having a
 common source or root (of subjects etc.) related, naturally
 grouped together.". Cognate goods/services can be
 described, inter alia, as goods or services which have a trade
 connection - as in glucose and biscuits (See Corn Products
 Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. , AIR 1960 SC 142) or which are intended for the same class of customers -
 as in television picture tubes (parts thereof, video tapes and
 cassettes and television tuners etc.) and televisions, tuners
 and TV Kits (See Prakash Industries Ltd. v. Rajan
 Enterprises (1994) 14 PTC 31), or are complementary to
 each other - as in toothbrushes and toothpaste (See HM
 Sariya v. Ajanta India Ltd. (2006) 33 PTC 4). xxxx 53. Now, to determine whether the defendants' services are
 allied and cognate to plaintiffs goods, it is essential to first
 discuss the law on similarity in goods/services in trademarks
 and its development so far. While the Act is silent on the
 factors to be considered for similarity in goods/services, the
 Courts in India - relying upon international cases and
 literature, have consolidated the guiding principles and
 factors found relevant in ascertaining the similarity between
 goods/services. They are as follows: (emphasis supplied) 3. In Para 9-075, the Learned Author has mentioned some
 illustrations on similar goods or services including under
 Para 9-078 "Services offered by beauty salons; solarium
 services" similar to "business assistance with beauty
 preparations, sales" and "beauty preparations,
 perfumery, cosmetics dietetic substances". The said
 illustration sources from the case of Beauty Shop
 Application v. Opposition of Evora BV [1999] E.T.M.R.
 20, wherein the Office for Harmonization in the Internal
 Market (Trade Marks and Designs) also known as the
 Opposition Division held the defendant's services to be
 similar to the plaintiffs services and goods by observing
 that "the goods and services of the conflicting marks
 could be offered together and be intended for the same
 public." 4. In British Sugar Plc. v. James Robertson & Sons Ltd.
 [1996] R.P.C. 281 at 294-297, relied upon in Balkrishna
 Hatcheries v. Nandos International Ltd. 2007 SCC OnLine
 Bom 449 and Advance Magazine Publishers, Inc. v. Just
 Lifestyle Pvt. Ltd. 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 8417, the court
 laid down the objective test for similarity of description of
 goods/services as follows: 5. Kerly 15 ed while relying upon Canon (supra), further
 observes in Para 9-065 that the element of distinctive
 character of a trademark and its reputation is also viewed
 when determining similarity between the goods and
 services and whether such similarity is sufficient to give
 rise to the likelihood of confusion." (Emphasis supplied) 32. Applying the test laid down in FDC (supra), it can be said that
 prima facie the plaintiffs and the defendant's goods are
 allied/cognate goods, for the following reasons: Reference in this regard were made to the following passages as
 appearing in MAC Persona Carel: - 16. With the growth of the internet and the modern means of
 communication including radio, television and broadcasting, the
 second element is relatively easier to establish as compared to the
 position which existed even one decade ago. In fact, each new
 telecom technology (e.g. for 2G to 4G) increased band width
 enabling more and more to be achieved on say a hand-held cell
 phone. Therefore, standing anywhere within the country at any
 time pressing a few buttons, a person is able to view international
 trademarks with such ease that the spill over factor has become
 quite easy to establish. 17. But as regards the first element, of having a reputation in an
 international market, the question does arise as to the extent and
 magnitude of the reputation in order for it to be considered
 adequate to prima-facie satisfy the first condition of trans-border
 reputation; justifying the grant of an interim injunction pending
 trial. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 27 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 18. In our opinion anything done at a commercial level should
 suffice to achieve the prima-facie satisfaction unless it can be
 called de minimis or trivial. Even if one is to assess in a rough way
 the amount or magnitude of the international reputation, there can
 be certain factors which assists in this process. If the trademark is
 registered in favour of the plaintiff in a jurisdiction abroad, said
 fact would demonstrate: - According to Mr. Sibal, the learned Single Judge also failed to bear in
 consideration similar principles which came to be propounded by the
 Supreme Court in Milmet Oftho Industries v. Allergan Inc.8 . 41. It was then argued that the judgment suffers from apparent
 contradictions as would be evident from the following facts. Mr. Sibal
 contended that the learned Single Judge while noticing the CNBC
 article which had clearly mentioned the date of adoption of the mark
 by the appellant as 2018, it has still proceeded to hold that the
 appellant had been using the mark only since 2020. According to Mr.
 Sibal, the learned Single Judge has also misconstrued the CNBC
 article while holding that the appellant had a presence only in ride
 hailing services when in fact the said article had itself mentioned the
 presence of the appellant in the EV segment. According to Mr. Sibal, 6 UKSC 7 [2015] UKSC 31 8 (2004) 12 SCC 624. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 29 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 the learned Judge has also erred in holding that the appellant had
 established EV charging stations only in Tallinn, Estonia, and
 ignoring its widespread presence in various countries across the globe
 while providing a whole bouquet of mobility related services. 42. Mr. Sibal further argued that the action of the respondents
 clearly amounted to a dishonest adoption as would be manifest from
 the following facts. According to learned senior counsel, the
 respondents in their written statement clearly admit of having
 knowledge of the mark of the appellant prior to their adoption and this
 in itself being evidence of a dishonest adoption. Mr. Sibal argued that
 Mac Personal Care had clearly frowned upon commercial dishonesty
 and the said facet constituting an important factor to be taken into
 consideration for the purposes of grant of injunction. It was his
 submission that an innocent use of a mark would be protected only if
 it be found that the same has been used by two or more persons
 unknown to each other and unaware of the mark itself. In the facts of
 the present case Mr. Sibal contented that it is more than evident that
 the adoption of the mark by the respondent was neither honest nor
 bona fide. 43. Continuing along this thread, Mr. Sibal also referred to the
 admitted fact that the respondent had initially launched its services
 under the trade name ―REVOS" and only thereafter adopted the word
 ―BOLT" for their EV charging stations. To sustain the aforesaid
 allegation, our attention was invited to an article which appeared in
 India Today and is found at page 1787 of our digital record. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 30 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 44. Mr. Sibal further questioned the correctness of the view
 expressed by the learned Single Judge where it was held that a
 physical or commercial presence within the territory would be
 relevant for the purposes of answering the question of transborder
 reputation. According to learned senior counsel, the aforesaid
 observations clearly run contrary to the principles which came to be laid down in MAC Personal Care and find resonance even in the
 decision of Supreme Court in Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha v.
 Prius Auto Industries Ltd9 . 45. Appearing for the respondents. Mr. Wadhwa, learned senior
 counsel firstly urged that although the plaintiff / appellant claims to
 have conceived and adopted the mark ―BOLT" in 2018 and
 consolidated their operations under that mark sometime in 2019, the
 plaint fails to place any material particulars in this respect on the
 record. 46. According to Mr. Wadhwa, a general global reputation without
 any reference to reputation of goods and goodwill in India would be
 wholly insufficient for the purposes of answering the issue of
 transborder reputation. 47. Quite apart from the above, it was his submission that even on
 the material that was placed on the record, it cannot possibly be held
 that the appellant had a significant presence in India. It was in this
 regard further urged that the plaintiff / appellant failed to disclose 9 (2018) 2 SCC 1

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 31 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 appropriate particulars with respect to when it commenced its EV
 charging business and operations anywhere in the world. Mr. Wadhwa
 highlighted the fact that all that is averred in this respect is the
 establishment of EV charging docks in Tallinn, Estonia and the intent
 of the appellant to install similar charging docks in Lithuania and
 Portugal. 48. It was also his submission that the argument of allied or cognate
 services was one which was raised for the first time only in the
 replication. He took exception to the introduction of new facts and
 material by way of a replication in a purported attempt to establish the
 plaintiff's goodwill and reputation in India. 49. It was further urged by Mr. Wadhwa that a comparison of the
 marks of the appellant and respondents would itself establish that the
 latter mark would not satisfy the likelihood of confusion test. Mr.
 Wadhwa referred to the following pictorial comparison between the
 two products: - 50. Mr. Wadhwa further argued that the word ―BOLT‖ is generic
 and is in use by various reputed organizations whose businesses
 straddle various sectors. It was submitted that the word ―BOLT‖ has
 been adopted by Micromax (for phones), Bombay Stock Exchange
 (for computer software), Hyundai (for buses, cars and trucks), TATA
 (for vehicles), TVS (for tires and tubes) etc. According to Mr.
 Wadhwa, a search on the website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
 itself would establish that as many as 103 companies are registered
 with BOLT forming part of a corporate name. Reference in this regard
 was also made to the launch of cars by both Tata and Chevrolet with
 the name ―BOLT". 51. Mr. Wadhwa contended that the word ―BOLT" along with a
 symbol of a thunderbolt together connote and seek to convey speed
 and lightning, both of which are concepts commonly used as part of
 visual representation strategies. This, according to learned senior
 counsel, would be evident from a bare perusal of the table which
 stands placed with paragraph 51 of the written statement. It was
 submitted that the respondent intended to highlight the swift charging
 of batteries capability of its chargers and that led to the adoption of the
 word and the device marks which presently appear on its charging
 stations. 52. It was further contended by the respondents that in all fairness
 and in deference to the statement made before the Court on 23
 November 2022, it had already changed its name and mark to

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 33 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 BOLT.EARTH and it is this arrangement which has been continued. It
 was submitted that it was the unjustified objections taken by the
 appellant which compelled the respondent to alter its name to
 BOLT.EARTH. According to Mr. Wadhwa, in terms of the
 undertaking as proffered before the learned Single Judge, the
 respondents have taken appropriate remedial steps and are bound to do
 so during the pendency of the proceedings in the suit. The Court was
 also referred to the affidavit of compliance which has been filed in this
 respect. 53. Proceeding to address submissions on the issue of adoption, Mr.
 Wadhwa pointed out that the appellants expressed its intent to adopt
 the word ―BOLT" for the first time in October 2020 as would be
 evident from the content which was uploaded on YouTube. The
 learned senior counsel also referred to the various invoices which
 came to be generated in the course of sale of the REVOS BOLT
 chargers dating back to November 2020. These invoices appear at
 page 1909 to 1911 of our record. 54. Mr. Wadhwa submitted that as on 08 January 2021, the
 respondent had established more than 100 charging stations and was
 proceeding at a pace of 3 installations per day. It was further
 contended that the India Today article dated 26 October 2021 itself
 notes that in the pre-launch phase, numerous BOLT charging points
 had already been installed across 60 cities in India with an installed
 capacity of over 3600 kW. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 34 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 55. According to Mr. Wadhwa, all of the above would clearly
 establish that by October 2021, the respondent had gained substantial
 goodwill across the country in contrast to the appellant having merely
 installed some charging docks in Tallinn, Estonia alone at this time.
 By March 2022, Mr. Wadhwa pointed out, the respondent had
 achieved the milestone of 10,000 EV charging stations across India
 and which feat was widely reported in various newspapers in the
 country. Mr. Wadhwa also referred to the mention of the respondent
 in the annual India EV Report Card FY 2021-2022 and evidencing the
 installation of 11,200 charging points in the country and representing
 the highest penetration reached by any service provider. 56. In contrast to the above, according to Mr. Wadhwa, the
 appellant has not only failed to establish goodwill or reputation in
 India, it had also miserably failed to establish goodwill in the EV
 charging space itself. According to learned senior counsel, the case of
 the appellant insofar as the EV charging segment is concerned is
 based solely on certain news articles and downloads of its mobile app
 by a minuscule number of Indian users. 57. Insofar as those newspaper articles are concerned, it was
 pointed out by Mr. Wadhwa that the appellant refers merely to two
 stray mentions in Indian newspapers and which too appeared at a gap
 of almost three years in between. 58. Proceeding then to counter the data which was sought to be
 relied upon by the appellant to buttress its case of reputation and

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 35 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 goodwill in India, it was submitted by Mr. Wadhwa that the download
 data relates to the period January, 2017 to May, 2022, when in fact the
 appellant rebranded to BOLT only around 2018-2019. It was further
 submitted that the downloads between 2019 to October 2020 are
 negligible at the most and thus cannot possibly be read as cogent
 evidence of reputation and goodwill in the country. 59. It was further argued by Mr. Wadhwa that undisputedly, the
 appellant provides no services in India and in any event the downloads
 by Indian users is only to avail of services outside. According to Mr.
 Wadhwa, the driver campaign is also wholly immaterial when one
 bears in mind that the same was published in five cities of India
 during February 2020 to May 2020 and thus constituting a one-time
 exercise. It was further contended that the aforesaid advertising
 campaign is in any case of little relevance when one bears in mind the
 fact that it was rolled out during a time when the COVID pandemic
 was raging across the country. 60. Mr. Wadhwa also questioned the submission of allied and
 cognate services which was commended for our consideration by Mr.
 Sibal and argued that the fuel or the power on which a vehicle may
 run cannot possibly be viewed or accepted as being allied or cognate
 to the vehicle itself. It was his submission further that the fuel factor
 of a vehicle is in any case wholly irrelevant when viewed in the
 context of a platform merely aimed at aggregation of vehicles. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 36 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 61. Mr. Wadhwa underlined the fact that the fuel/power as
 contrasted to a vehicle constitute two distinct and separate services,
 have completely different trade channels and constitute separate
 sectors itself. According to Mr. Wadhwa, it would be preposterous to
 recognize petrol pumps, diesel pumps, CNG pumps as a segment
 which could be said to be allied or cognate to the automobile sector. 62. In any case, according to learned senior counsel, and as per the
 case of the appellant itself, it principally remains to be a right
 aggregator as opposed to an industry leader in the field of EV
 charging. Mr. Wadhwa also sought to distinguish the judgment of
 Sona Blw Precision Forgings Ltd, pointing out that the plaintiff
 therein was engaged in the manufacture and assembly of electric
 motors and the defendant there dealing in electric two-wheelers.
 According to learned senior counsel, it was in the aforesaid context
 that the learned Judge held in favor of the plaintiff and answered the
 issue of allied and cognate goods in the affirmative. According to Mr.
 Wadhwa, the claim as set forth by the appellant is in any case liable to
 be negated when tested on the principles enunciated by the Supreme
 Court in Toyota. 63. Mr. Wadhwa also placed reliance on the judgement of Keller
 Williams Realty Vs Dingle Buildcons Pvt. Ltd.10 , wherein in the
 context of transborder reputation, after considering Toyota, the
 Supreme Court had held that real estate brokerage services are not 10 2020 SCC OnLine Del 539

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 37 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 allied/cognate to real estate development services. The relevant
 observations in this regard are reproduced below:- Without the plaintiff establishing the tort, of the
 defendants, by confusing the customers, passing off the
 properties developed by the defendants as those from the

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 40 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 plaintiff, cannot be entitled to any relief on the ground of
 passing off. (D) The marks of the defendants, to which objection is
 taken by the plaintiff, at least at this stage, cannot be said
 to be similar or deceptively similar to the marks of the
 plaintiff. While the plaintiff is using merely the alphabets
 ‗KW' or together with Keller Williams, the defendants are
 using the same in conjunction with, either ‗Blue Pearl' or
 ‗Srishti' or ‗Delhi-6' or in corporate names, in conjunction
 with ‗Power Pvt. Ltd.' or ‗Securities and Services Pvt.
 Ltd.' or ‗Agro Pvt. Ltd.' or ‗Infrabuild Pvt. Ltd.' etc. and
 which is sufficient to distinguish the two. (E) When the plaintiff chose to use bare alphabets ‗KW'
 as its mark, the possibility of another using the same
 alphabets, is inherent, as the plaintiff also conceded in its
 reply dated 20th May, 2013 supra. The plaintiff then, on
 learning of the same, did not feel the need to oppose the
 application of the defendants for registration or to restrain
 the defendants from, even if then not in use, commencing
 use thereof, specially since the plaintiff also, though then
 not using, proposed to use identical mark. The same is
 sufficient to deny interim relief of plaintiff.
 (F) At least, at this stage it appears that the plaintiff is also
 guilty of delay and latches. The plaintiff, in the plaint
 admits knowledge in March, 2013 of the claim of the
 defendants of use of the mark since 2006 and the
 application filed by the defendants prior to the plaintiff for
 registration of the said mark. However the plaintiff,
 instead of opposing the said application of the defendants
 or immediately suing the defendants in 2013 itself to
 restrain the defendants from using the said mark, was
 content with obtaining registration in its own favour. The
 defendants have placed before this Court advertisement
 published in Delhi newspapers of their project KW Srishti
 in the years 2010 and 2012 i.e. prior to 2013 when the
 plaintiff admits to have become aware of the defendants.
 There is no explanation why the plaintiff, on becoming so
 aware in March 2013, did not enquire into the operations
 and extent of operations and which would have revealed
 the project KW Srishti of the defendants, even if the
 plaintiff was not aware of the same earlier. The plaintiff
 has thereby allowed the defendants to launch other
 projects with KW brand and thereby acquiesced in use of

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 41 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 the mark at least from 2013 till 2019, by the defendants.
 The same also disentitles the plaintiff to any interim
 injunction. (G) Since the plaintiff till date has no business in India, the
 question of the plaintiff suffering any irreparable loss and
 injury does not arise and the balance of convenience is
 also in favour of the defendants. The consumers of the
 projects of the defendants under the KW brand, who use
 the same as their address, would also be affected by any
 injunction granted and all of which cannot be reversed in
 the event of the plaintiff ultimately failing in the suit. On
 the contrary, if the plaintiff ultimately succeeds in the suit,
 the defendants can always be injuncted then and the mere
 fact that the defendants during the pendency of the suit
 have continued use of the mark, would not be of any avail,
 as the expansion if any by the defendants of use of the
 impugned marks, would be at their own peril. (H) Though the explanation of the defendants of the
 reason for the use of alphabets ‗KW' does not inspire
 confidence and is also contrary to the stand of the
 defendants themselves, of KW standing for ―Kesarwani
 World‖, however the same alone would not entitle the
 plaintiff to injunction without making out at least a prima
 facie case for infringement or passing off.‖ 64. According to learned senior counsel, not only has the appellant
 failed to establish goodwill or reputation in India, it has in any case
 failed to prove substantial goodwill for its product in the Indian
 market. Mr. Wadhwa emphasized precedents across different
 jurisdictions having favored the territoriality principle and thus
 placing the appellant under the obligation of having proven spillover
 of reputation and goodwill in India itself. 65. Mr. Wadhwa submitted that the material and the evidence
 which has been relied upon by the appellant also fails to meet the test
 of presence of the mark in the market and one which was formulated

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 42 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 by the Supreme Court in Toyota. Mr. Wadhwa, in support of his
 submissions, also underlined courts across jurisdictions having
 accepted goodwill being a facet which is predominantly local in
 character and having found that a foreign trader which chooses not to
 conduct any business activity in a country being disentitled to
 protection. 66. It was further submitted that reputation has also been
 recognized as being an aspect distinct from goodwill, and that
 consequently, even if it were to be assumed that the appellant had a
 reputation within a particular jurisdiction, the same would not be
 sufficient for this Court to accord any relief to it. 67. In the end, Mr. Wadhwa submitted that while answering the
 issue of cross border reputation, Courts must also necessarily bear in
 mind the aspect of public interest and the imperative need to protect
 domestic industry from injunctive attacks mounted by corporate
 entities which have evinced no interest or intent to provide services to
 Indian customers. 68. Having noticed the rival submissions addressed on this appeal,
 it would be appropriate to briefly advert to the precedents rendered on
 the subject of spillover of reputation so as to formulate the
 foundational precepts which would govern. We note that one of the
 earliest decisions rendered on this subject was by a Division Bench of
 the Calcutta High Court in Allergan Inc. Vs. Milment Oftho

 FAO(OS) (COMM ) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 43 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 Industries.11. Ruma Pal J. while penning a lucid opinion and one
 which when viewed today could be described as being truly
 progressive, cognizant of the march of technology and of a world with
 fewer trade barriers, had this to say: - In other words reputation of a product may precede its introduction
 and may exist without trade in such product in the country,
 See N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation , AIR 1995 Delhi 300
 (DB); J.N. Nichols (Vimto) Ltd. v. Rose & Thistle , 1994 PTC 83
 (DB); Calvin Klein Inc. v. International Apparels , (1995) FSR 515
 : 1995 IPLR 83; Conagra Inc. v. McCain Foods (Supra) at p. 133. ***** 17. Second, evidence of reputation abroad may spill over in the
 country through advertisement. The Division Bench of the Delhi
 High Court in N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corpn. , AIR 1995 Del 300
 (affirmed in appeal (1996) 5 SCC 714) said: 18. The same view was taken by the Division Bench of this Court
 in J.N. Nichols (Vimto) Ltd. v. Rose & Thistle , 1994 PTC 83 (DB): 9. In the present case, the marks are the same. They are in respect
 of pharmaceutical products. The mere fact that the respondents
 have not been using the mark in India would be irrelevant if they
 were first in the world market. The Division Bench had relied upon
 material which prima facie shows that the respondents' product was
 advertised before the appellants entered the field. On the basis of
 that material the Division Bench has concluded that the
 respondents were first to adopt the mark. If that be so, then no fault
 can be found with the conclusion drawn by the Division Bench.‖ 70. A learned Judge of our Court in Cadbury UK Limited Vs.
 Lotte India Corporation13 while speaking on the subject of
 reputation and goodwill had held as follows: - 71. Upon applying those principles to the case before the Court, the
 learned Judge proceeded to observe as below: - 72. Proceeding chronologically, we then take note of the decision of
 the UKSC in Starbucks, a decision which was noticed with approval
 by our Supreme Court in Toyota. While speaking of the necessity of
 goodwill in the United Kingdom being a legal imperative in cross
 border reputation cases, Starbucks upon noticing the judgments
 handed down on the subject in that jurisdiction held:- 73. Proceeding to notice the line taken by judgments rendered in
 different jurisdictions, the UKSC proceeded to observe thus: - ***** 39. In C&A Modes v C&A (Waterford) Ltd [1978] FSR 126, the
 Supreme Court of Ireland held that the plaintiff's C&A department
 store in Belfast was entitled to mount a claim in passing off in the
 Irish Republic. At p 139, Henchy J was clearly unhappy about the
 decision in the Alain Bernardin case, and said that there were in
 the Irish Republic ―sufficient customers of [the] plaintiff's business
 [in Belfast] to justify his claim‖. At pp 140-141, Kenny J rejected
 the argument that a passing off claim ―should be limited to cases
 where the plaintiff had acquired some of its goodwill in the
 Republic by user or trading in this country‖, and pointed out that
 the plaintiff in that case had customers in the Republic, where it
 had ―carried out extensive advertising on television and radio and
 in the newspapers‖. He also said that the decision in the Alain
 Bernardin case [1967] RPC 581 was wrong. O'Higgins CJ agreed
 with Henchy J. I do not find this decision of much assistance in this
 case. As Walton J said in the Athlete's Foot case [1980] RPC 343,
 p 356, these judgments (at least arguably in the same way as the
 judgment in the Pete Waterman case [1993] EMLR 27) show a
 ―misapprehension‖ of the reasoning in the Alain Bernardin case: 501, Lockhart J said, at p 504, that it was ―no longer valid, if it ever
 was, to speak of a business having goodwill or reputation only
 where the business is carried on‖, relying on ―Modern mass
 advertising ... [which] reaches people in many countries of the
 world‖, ―The international mobility of the world population‖ and
 the fact that ―This is an age of enormous commercial enterprises‖.
 He also said, at p 505, that, in his view, ―the ‗hard line' cases in
 England conflict with the needs of contemporary business and
 international commerce‖. He concluded on the next page that ―it is
 not necessary ... that a plaintiff, in order to maintain a passing off
 action, must have a place of business or a business presence in
 Australia; nor is it necessary that his goods are sold here‖, saying
 that it would be ―sufficient if his goods have a reputation in this
 country among persons here, whether residents or otherwise‖. Two
 points should be noted about this decision. First, the passing off
 claim none the less failed because the plaintiff was held to have an
 insufficient reputation in Australia. Secondly, the High Court of
 Australia has not considered this issue. 43. The approach of the Supreme Court of South Africa
 in Caterham Car Sales & Coachworks Ltd v Birkin Cars (Pty) Ltd
 [1998] 3 All SA 175 (A) is to similar effect--see at para 16.
 Indeed, at para 19, the ConAgra case 106 ALR 465 was cited with
 approval. However, once again, the claim failed on the ground of
 insufficiency of reputation. ***** 45. Finally, Singapore. In Jet Aviation (Singapore) Pte Ltd v Jet
 Maintenance Pte Ltd[1998] 3 SLR(R) 713, para 45, PCCM
 contends that Warren LH Khoo J in the High Court appears to have
 followed the ConAgra case 106 ALR 465. I am not at all sure that
 he did: see at para 42. However, it is unnecessary to decide that
 question, because more recently, the Court of Appeal considered
 the issue in an impressively wide ranging judgment in Staywell
 Hospitality Group Pty Ltd v Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
 Inc [2014] 1 SLR 911. After briefly considering most of the
 authorities to which I have referred (including the decision of
 Arnold J in this case), Sundaresh Menon CJ, giving the judgment
 of the court, explained at para 135 that the Singapore courts had
 ―largely followed the Star Industrial case [1976] FSR 256, holding
 that a foreign trader which does not conduct any business activity
 in Singapore cannot maintain an action in passing off here‖, and

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 53 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 that this ―draws a clear distinction between goodwill and
 reputation‖. 46. However, as he explained in the next paragraph, this ―hard line‖
 approach has been softened in one respect in Singapore
 (citing CDL Hotels International Ltd v Pontiac Marina Pte Ltd
 [1998] 1 SLR(R) 975, para 58) namely where the plaintiff has
 started ―pre-business activities‖, such as ―embark[ing] on massive
 advertising campaigns before the commencement of trading to
 familiarise the public with the service or product‖. Sundaresh
 Menon CJ explained, at para 138, that this was consistent with two
 English decisions, WH Allen & Co v Brown Watson Ltd [1965]
 RPC 191 and British Broadcasting Corporation v Talbot Motor Co
 Ltd [1981] FSR 228, a view which derives some support from the
 judgment of Dillon LJ in Marcus Publishing plc v Hutton-Wild
 Communications Ltd [1990] RPC 576, 584. ***** 49. It is of course open to this court to develop or even to change
 the law in relation to a common law principle, when it has become
 archaic or unsuited to current practices or beliefs. Indeed it is one
 of the great virtues of the common law that it can adapt itself to
 practical and commercial realities, which is particularly important
 in a world which is fast changing in terms of electronic processes,
 travel and societal values. None the less, we should bear in mind
 that changing the common law sometimes risks undermining legal
 certainty, both because a change in itself can sometimes generate
 uncertainty and because change can sometimes lead to other actual
 or suggested consequential changes. 50. In addition to domestic cases, it is both important and helpful to
 consider how the law has developed in other common law
 jurisdictions--important because it is desirable that the common
 law jurisdictions have a consistent approach, and helpful because
 every national common law judiciary can benefit from the
 experiences and thoughts of other common law judges. In the
 present instance, the Singapore courts follow the approach of the
 UK courts, whereas the courts of Australia (subject to the High
 Court holding otherwise) and South Africa seem to favour the
 approach supported by PCCM. The position is less clear in other
 Commonwealth jurisdictions. In the United States of America, the
 approach appears to be consistent with that of the courts below in
 this case. Thus in Grupo Gigante SA De CV v Dallo & Co Inc
 (2004) 391 F 3d 1088, the Court of Appeals for the 9th circuit said,
 at p 1093, that ―priority of trademark rights in the United States

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 54 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 depends solely on priority of use in the United States, not on
 priority of use anywhere in the world. Earlier use in another
 country usually just does not count‖. Accordingly it does not
 appear to me that there is anything like a clear trend in the common
 law courts outside the UK away from the ―hard line‖ approach
 manifested in the UK cases discussed in paras 21-26 and 32-36
 above.‖ 74. While dealing with the aspect of territoriality of goodwill and
 the necessary tests for answering the issue of substantial goodwill,
 Starbucks lays in place the following principles:- 75. It then went on to enter the following pertinent observations
 with respect to domestic industry and the need to strike a balance
 when spill over of reputation forms the basis for an action:- 76. The question of cross border reputation again fell for
 consideration before a Division Bench of our Court in MAC Personal,
 a decision which was heavily relied upon by the appellants. The

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 57 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 concept of reputation and goodwill and their relevance to the issue of
 transborder reputation was explained in the following terms: - 16. With the growth of the internet and the modern means of
 communication including radio, television and broadcasting, the
 second element is relatively easier to establish as compared to the
 position which existed even one decade ago. In fact, each new
 telecom technology (e.g. for 2G to 4G) increased band width
 enabling more and more to be achieved on say a hand-held cell
 phone. Therefore, standing anywhere within the country at any
 time pressing a few buttons, a person is able to view international
 trademarks with such ease that the spill over factor has become
 quite easy to establish. 17. But as regards the first element, of having a reputation in an
 international market, the question does arise as to the extent and
 magnitude of the reputation in order for it to be considered
 adequate to prima-facie satisfy the first condition of trans-border
 reputation; justifying the grant of an interim injunction pending
 trial. 18. In our opinion anything done at a commercial level should
 suffice to achieve the prima-facie satisfaction unless it can be
 called de minimis or trivial. Even if one is to assess in a rough way

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 58 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 the amount or magnitude of the international reputation, there can
 be certain factors which assists in this process. If the trademark is
 registered in favour of the plaintiff in a jurisdiction abroad, said
 fact would demonstrate : - Associates Inc. v. Cobra Sports Ltd. [Athletes' Foot Mktg.
 Associates Inc. v. Cobra Sports Ltd., 1980 RPC 343] to the
 following effect: FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 63 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 32. Prof. Cristopher Wadlow's view on the subject appears to be
 that the test of whether a foreign claimant may succeed in a
 passing-off action is whether his business has a goodwill in a
 particular jurisdiction, which criterion is broader than the
 ―obsolete‖ test of whether a claimant has a business/place of
 business in that jurisdiction. If there are customers for the
 claimant's products in that jurisdiction, then the claimant stands in
 the same position as a domestic trader. 33. The overwhelming judicial and academic opinion all over the
 globe, therefore, seems to be in favour of the territoriality principle.
 We do not see why the same should not apply to this country. 34. To give effect to the territoriality principle, the courts must
 necessarily have to determine if there has been a spillover of the
 reputation and goodwill of the mark used by the claimant who has
 brought the passing-off action. In the course of such determination
 it may be necessary to seek and ascertain the existence of not
 necessarily a real market but the presence of the claimant through
 its mark within a particular territorial jurisdiction in a more subtle
 form which can best be manifested by the following illustrations,
 though they arise from decisions of courts which may not be final
 in that particular jurisdiction. 35. In LA Societe Anonyme Des Anciens Etablissements
 Panhard v. Panhard Levassor Motor Co. Ltd. [LA Societe
 Anonyme Des Anciens Etablissements Panhard v. Panhard
 Levassor Motor Co. Ltd., (1901) 2 Ch 513] , the plaintiffs were
 French car manufacturers who had consciously decided to not
 launch their cars in England (apprehending patent infringement).
 Nevertheless, some individuals had got them imported to England.
 It was seen that England was one of the plaintiff's markets and thus,
 in this case, permanent injunction was granted. Similarly
 in Grant v. Levitt [Grant v. Levitt, (1901) 18 RPC 361] , a
 Liverpool business concern trading as the Globe Furnishing
 Company, obtained an injunction against the use of the same name
 in Dublin as it was observed that advertisements by the plaintiff
 had reached Ireland and there were Irish customers. 36.C&A Modes v. C&A (Waterford) Ltd. [C&A Modes v. C&A
 (Waterford) Ltd., 1976 IR 198 (Irish)] , was a case where the
 plaintiffs operated a chain of clothes stores throughout the UK and
 even in Northern Ireland but not in the Republic of Ireland where
 the defendants were trading. The Court held that,
 ―a very substantial and regular custom from the Republic of Ireland
 was enjoyed by this store. Up to that time an excursion train
 travelled each Thursday from Dublin to Belfast, and so great was

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 64 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 the influx of customers from the Republic as a result of that
 excursion that the store ordinarily employed extra part-time staff on
 Thursday on the same basis as it did on Saturday which were
 normally the busiest shopping days.‖
 The said view has since been upheld by the Irish Supreme Court. 79. Testing the case of the appellant on the aforesaid principles, the
 Supreme Court on facts held as under:- 80. Having observed the line of reasoning adopted by courts across
 various jurisdictions, we note that the Calcutta High Court had
 recognised reputation acquired by a trademark to constitute an
 important factor while evaluating claims of transnational spill-over of
 reputation. Allergan recognised a right of a person to sue for passing
 off based upon an international reputation notwithstanding it having
 no commercial presence in the country concerned. The said decision
 took cognizance of the dynamic nature of the digital landscape

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 66 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 enabling easy access to global information, the widespread reach of
 international commerce, of advanced means of communication to
 come to conclude that reputation could very well spill over or
 permeate across borders irrespective of any actual commercial activity
 being undertaken by that entity in the other country. It accepted the
 view expressed in N.R. Dongre Vs. Whirlpool15 by this Court to
 come to the conclusion that knowledge and reputation of a product
 could in the contemporary era traverse and transcend physical borders
 and boundaries. Reputation and goodwill were thus recognised to have
 extraterritorial reach allowing a trademark to travel beyond the
 country in which the goods may be physically available. 81. Murlidhar J. of our Court in Cadbury took a similar view
 holding that reputation need not be ―local‖ and that it is not necessary
 for a plaintiff to establish presence or sale of its products within the
 country provided it is able to prove a spillover reputation. Cadbury
 assumes added significance when it held that while goodwill may be
 derived from reputation, the latter need not necessarily be ―local
 reputation‖. Both the decisions in Allergan and Cadbury thus clearly
 appear to have acknowledged cross border reputation as being
 sufficient to maintain an action of passing off and thus unhinged from
 goodwill as traditionally understood. It is pertinent to note that both
 Allergan as well as N.R. Dongre were ultimately upheld by the
 Supreme Court. AIR 1995 Delhi 300

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 67 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 82. The Division Bench in MAC Personal Care reiterated the
 position consistently adopted by this Court in line with the precedents
 noticed above when it held that a spillover of international reputation
 and renown would be sufficient for a claim of passing off being
 maintained. The Court in MAC Persona Carel proceeded to
 pertinently observe that the product need not have a "commercial"
 presence in India for such an action being initiated. The tests in this
 regard were formulated to be the existence of an international
 reputation and its spill over in India. 83. While Intex came to be rendered subsequently, it did not notice
 the judgment in MAC Personal Care. It then proceeded to hold that
 goodwill in the jurisdiction is an essential ingredient for a passing off
 action. Intex thus formulated the legal position to be of marks being
 disentitled to protection since they could not be regarded as having a
 goodwill "unless and until there are sales and an established market
 in India." We deem it apposite to enter two observations insofar as
 Intex is concerned. We note that while extracting Kerly's, it failed to
 accord due consideration upon the flux in the legal position which was
 noticed by the learned author with it being observed that the Court of
 Appeal in Cipriani had chosen to desist from commenting upon
 overseas services being availed by payments within the country
 leaving that aspect open to be considered in an appropriate case. This
 aspect assumes significance insofar as we are concerned since the
 appellant here bases its cross border reputation on the significant
 number of downloads of its app by customers in India albeit for

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 68 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 services to be availed of overseas. Quite apart from Intex having failed
 to notice a decision rendered by a Bench of coequal strength, we are
 constrained to observe that the test of "established market in India" 84. Toyota while dealing with the subject of transborder reputation
 had an occasion to notice the decision of the UKSC in Starbucks as
 well as numerous other judgments handed down by various courts
 straddling diverse jurisdictions. However, we find that while viewing
 Starbucks we tend to overlook the penultimate lines appearing in para
 52 of that decision which categorically holds that it would be
 sufficient if it be found that people within the jurisdiction of the
 United Kingdom were "booking with or purchasing from an entity in
 this country" and had obtained the right to receive services abroad.
 Thus the right to avail services abroad from an entity operating within
 the country would even as per Starbucks be sufficient or at least be
 relevant for the purposes of evaluating a claim of cross border
 reputation of a trademark. 85. The Supreme Court in Toyota then went on to approve the
 summation of the territoriality principle as elucidated by Prof.
 Christopher Wadlow who had observed that goodwill would be
 established if the claimant were to establish the existence of a
 customer base in a particular jurisdiction and thus being broader than
 the archaic view of a "place of business in that jurisdiction". The
 learned author had gone further to observe that once customers for a

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 69 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 claimants product are found to exist, then the claimant would stand in
 the same position as any other domestic trader. 86. In Toyota, we find that that the Supreme Court has at more than
 one place used the expressions reputation and goodwill conjunctively
 and in any case neither overemphasising nor according pre-eminence
 to the necessity of goodwill. Toyota also does not prescribe goodwill
 to be the primordial or predominant factor for the purposes of
 ascertaining cross border reputation. This is evident from para 34 of
 the report when it was observed that courts would have to answer the
 question of a spillover of "reputation and goodwill". Again in para
 38 of the report, the Supreme Court spoke of "....necessary goodwill
 and reputation of the product in the Indian market". In the very same
 breath, the Supreme Court once again observed that the appellant had
 failed to establish the existence of goodwill and reputation of its brand
 name in the Indian context. In para 40 of the report it went on to hold
 that if "goodwill or reputation" is not shown to be existent, the action
 of passing off must fail. 87. We find from a reading of the judgment in Toyota, the Supreme
 Court had noticed the decision of the UKSC in Starbucks. In
 Starbucks, the UKSC had an occasion to exhaustively consider how
 courts across varied jurisdictions had treated the subject of cross
 border reputation. Starbucks was called upon to consider a submission
 that bearing in mind the technological advances made, goodwill
 should no longer be limited to jurisdictions where the claimant had an
 actual business. It appears to have been urged that the exponential

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 70 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 growth of international travel and the ubiquitous imprint of the
 internet would warrant a jettisoning of the traditional principle of
 anchoring of goodwill to a particular jurisdiction. While dealing with
 this contention, the UKSC made the following pertinent observations:- Buschcase was binding authority ―for the proposition that an

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 71 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 undertaking which seeks to establish goodwill in relation to a mark
 for goods cannot do so, however great may be the reputation of his
 mark in the UK, unless it has customers among the general public
 in the UK for those products. 32. So far as the Anheuser-Busch case [1984] FSR 413 is
 concerned, as I have already indicated, the fact that the decision
 proceeded on the basis that a plaintiff in a passing off action must
 have goodwill, in the form of customers, in the jurisdiction did not
 represent any departure from an approach already approved by the
 House of Lords. As Oliver LJ pointed out, at p 464, Lord Diplock
 in the Erven Warninkcase [1979] AC 731, 744 stated that a plaintiff
 must have ―used the descriptive term long enough on the market in
 connection with his own goods and have traded successfully
 enough to have built up a goodwill for his business‖, and, as Oliver
 LJ then observed, this ―emphasises the point that goodwill (as
 opposed to mere reputation) does not exist here apart from a
 business carried on here‖. As Oliver LJ went on to say, the same
 feature ―emerges with even greater clarity from the decision of the
 Privy Council in the Star Industrial case‖. And Dillon LJ in the
 Anheuser-Busch case [1984] FSR 413, 475-476 cited the Spalding
 case 32 RPC 273, the Star Industrial case [1976] FSR 256 and
 Inland Revenue Comrs v Muller & Co's Margarine Ltd [1901] AC
 217 to make the same point.‖ 88. Turning its gaze then upon the judgments rendered on the
 question of a spillover of reputation, the UKSC exhaustively reviewed
 the various decisions handed down by courts in the United Kingdom
 as well as those pronounced by Irish, Singaporean and Hong Kong
 courts as well as a lucid decision rendered by the Federal Court of
 Australia in Conagra Inc. V. McCain Foods (Aust) Pty Ltd16. On
 conclusion of that review, the UKSC repelled the argument of
 goodwill being no longer anchored or confined to a particular
 jurisdiction by observing as follows:- 50. In addition to domestic cases, it is both important and helpful to
 consider how the law has developed in other common law
 jurisdictions--important because it is desirable that the common
 law jurisdictions have a consistent approach, and helpful because
 every national common law judiciary can benefit from the
 experiences and thoughts of other common law judges. In the
 present instance, the Singapore courts follow the approach of the
 UK courts, whereas the courts of Australia (subject to the High
 Court holding otherwise) and South Africa seem to favour the
 approach supported by PCCM. The position is less clear in other
 Commonwealth jurisdictions. In the United States of America, the
 approach appears to be consistent with that of the courts below in
 this case. Thus in Grupo Gigante SA De CV v Dallo & Co Inc
 (2004) 391 F 3d 1088, the Court of Appeals for the 9th circuit said,
 at p 1093, that ―priority of trademark rights in the United States
 depends solely on priority of use in the United States, not on
 priority of use anywhere in the world. Earlier use in another
 country usually just does not count‖. Accordingly it does not
 appear to me that there is anything like a clear trend in the common
 law courts outside the UK away from the ―hard line‖ approach
 manifested in the UK cases discussed in paras 21-26 and 32-36
 above.‖ 89. It then proceeded to consider as to what would constitute
 sufficient business to give rise to goodwill. While dealing with the
 said aspect, the UKSC observed thus:- And, in such a case, the entity need not be a part or branch of the
 claimant: it can be someone acting for or on behalf of the claimant.
 That is why, as explained in the Athlete's Foot case [1980] RPC
 343, the decision in the Panhard case [1901] 2 Ch 513 and the
 observations in the Pete Waterman case [1993] EMLR 27 are
 compatible with the decision in the Alain Bernardin case [1967]
 RPC 581. 53. As to Lord Diplock's statement in the Star Industrial case
 [1976] FSR 256 that, for the purpose of determining whether a
 claimant in a passing off action can establish the first of Lord
 Oliver's three elements, an English court has to consider whether
 the claimant can establish goodwill in England, I consider that it
 was correct. In other words, when considering whether to give
 protection to a claimant seeking relief for passing off, the court
 must be satisfied that the claimant's business has goodwill within
 its jurisdiction.‖ 90. Seeking to draw sustenance for the proposition of goodwill
 being territorial, Starbucks held as under:- 91. As would be evident from the aforesaid passages of that
 decision, the UKSC chose to tread down the narrower path and
 accepted the existence of goodwill being continued to be governed by
 principles of domestic grounding and territorial limitations and the
 same, thus, constituting an essential ingredient for an action of passing

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 76 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 off. However, while doing so it felt bound by precedents which had
 consistently ordained goodwill to be the primary condition and on
 which alone a claim of passing off would sustain. The UKSC appears
 to have been convinced to tread that line and navigating along a
 restricted course by desisting from jettisoning the well-established and
 engrained common law principles bearing in mind the need to balance
 the public interest and for protection being accorded to domestic
 industry and tradesmen. It clearly appears to have borne in
 consideration the chilling effect of a cross border reputation being
 accepted without any goodwill existing in the domestic market and
 thus stifling the sustenance and growth of domestic industry. 92. However, the UKSC also considered the concept of well-known
 marks which had come to be adopted and incorporated in trademark
 statutes across the globe pursuant to the Paris Convention. This is
 evident from paragraph 64 of the report which is extracted
 hereinbelow:- 93. Before closing the review on the subject of extraterritorial
 reputation, we deem it apposite to notice the decision handed down by
 the Federal Court of Australia in Conagra and which had also fallen
 for consideration of the UKSC in Starbucks. The Australian Federal
 Court while answering the tests to be applied to meet the precept of
 local connection had observed as follows:- 94. It thereafter proceeded to review decisions rendered across
 various jurisdictions on the aspect of transborder reputation and
 ultimately came to record its conclusions in the following terms:- 95. We note that in McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair
 Competition [5th Ed]18 the aspects of international ownership and the
 territoriality principle has been considered and the discussion on that
 subject is extracted hereinbelow:- The Paris Convention Adopts the ―Territoriality‖ Doctrine. The United
 States is a member of the Paris Union as a signatory of the Paris
 Convention, Article 6(3) of which states that: ―A mark duly registered
 in a country of the [Paris] Union shall be regarded as independent of
 marks registered in other countries of the Union, including the country
 of origin.‖ United States adherence to the Paris Convention has been
 viewed as committing U.S. law to the principle of territoriality
 embodied in Article 6(3). But the Pan-American Convention has been
 viewed as creating a limited exception to the doctrine of territoriality. The Paris Convention also provides that a mark and its good will
 can be validly assigned as to only one nation by the transfer of the right
 to sell the marked goods in one nation together with ―that portion of the
 business or goodwill located in that country.‖ Thus, the Paris
 Convention recognizes that a U.S. registered trademark for foreign-
 made goods can have a separate legal existence in the United States and
 that this separate mark its goods will are assignable. That is,
 manufacturer Alpha may own the mark in France, but exclusive
 importer Zeta may own the mark in the United States, if it is validly
 assigned by Alpha. Similarly, a U.S. company with international
 operations may split the company territorially and sell off the
 international part of its business, retaining only the domestic portion. The ―Territoriality‖ Doctrine and Use of a mark Outside the
 United States. Applying the territoriality principle to the issue of
 priority of use in the United States, the Fifth Circuit observed: 96. The subject of marks of repute was elaborately dealt with in the
 chapter dealing with Federal Anti-Dilution laws where the following
 discussion finds place:- 97. In McCarthy, the scope and intent of the provisions relating to
 well-known marks as adopted by the Paris Convention was also
 noticed as would be evident from the following extracts:- 98. As would be manifest from a reading of the aforesaid passages,
 the spillover of fame between nations was accorded due recognition
 when dealing with marks of repute. It was further observed that for a
 mark to be well known its presence in a particular jurisdiction must be
 proven to be ―substantial and significant‖. 99. The Supreme Court in Toyota while accepting that the
 territoriality principle would merit adoption by Indian courts also does
 not appear to have shut out the application of cross border reputation
 principles where reputation may be found to have transcended
 borders. This would be evident from the discussion which ensues. As
 is manifest from a reading of Toyota, the said decision spoke of those
 precepts being applicable even in the absence of a ―real market‖ as
 conventionally understood and bid us to examine the issue from the
 standpoint of the claimant through its mark being present in the
 market. We also deem it apposite to advert to the repeated
 conjunctive use of the expressions reputation alongside goodwill at
 more than one place in the said decision. 100. Reverting then to Starbucks, we note that the UKSC essentially
 found itself bound by past precedents, albeit rendered in times far
 removed from the present, and which had held that mere spill-over of
 reputation would not suffice and a case of domestic rooting of
 goodwill had to be established. However even Starbucks sought to

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 94 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 reconcile the legal position by accepting the fact that the presence of
 customers within the United Kingdom availing of services abroad may
 suffice. The UKSC also appears to have weighed in consideration the
 latent effect of such a position tipping the balance in favour of
 protection. While this would clearly constitute an important
 consideration when we evaluate claims of cross border reputation,
 Toyota as well as the judgments in Cadbury and MAC Personal Care
 have constructed adequate safeguards and gateways before such a
 contention may be accepted. This we do observe bearing in mind
 those decisions employing the metric of significant and substantial
 evidence of reputation and presence in the jurisdiction as being the
 determinative factor. What we seek to emphasise is the need to
 acknowledge the imperatives of shrugging off the conventional
 moorings of goodwill, as traditionally understood, coupled with it
 being rooted in a tangible market while considering the issue of cross
 border reputation. 101. We find that Toyota was dealing with a product which had
 virtually no physical or commercial presence in India. There was
 admittedly no evidence of Prius having been commercially traded in
 India. The Supreme Court answered the issue of transborder
 reputation weighing in balance the absence of significant information
 and knowledge of the mark in India, limited online exposure and the
 stray reportage of the product. It thus answered the issue based on a
 lack of goodwill, lack of information and knowledge of the mark
 amongst a sizeable number of people in the concerned segment and

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 95 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 thus a failure to meet the evidentiary standards of recognition and
 knowledge of the mark. At the cost of repetition, we deem it
 appropriate to advert to the Supreme Court observing in para 40 of the
 report that if "goodwill or reputation" in the particular jurisdiction
 were not proven, no other issue would arise for consideration. This
 coalesces with the observation of absence of a real market and the
 principal factor being "presence of the claimant through its mark
 within a particular territorial jurisdiction in a more subtle form....". 102. Thus Toyota cannot possibly be read as adopting or advocating
 the restricted approach taken by English courts and which had spoken
 of goodwill, as traditionally understood, being an inviolable condition
 for testing claims of passing off where the same be based upon a cross
 border reputation. The Supreme Court merely accepted the
 predominant view taken in most jurisdictions across the globe of the
 territoriality principle being the norm as opposed to the doctrine of
 universality. However, Toyota cannot possibly be understood as
 propounding a position that significant reputation can have no bearing
 especially in cases where it is urged that the mark had acquired a
 transborder reputation. In fact the concept of cross border reputation
 and a spill over of renown was duly recognised and affirmed. 103. We deem it pertinent to observe that acceptance of reputation as
 a facet relevant to actions of passing off would not run contrary to the
 territoriality principle. What we seek to emphasise is that insistence
 upon goodwill being viewed as a necessary precondition for
 maintaining an action of passing off can no longer be countenanced to

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 96 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 be the correct view. Allergan, Cadbury, MAC Personal Care and
 Toyota bid us to abandon the archaic and doctrinaire approach bearing
 in mind the transformative impact of technology that has blurred
 traditional boundaries allowing trademarks of global renown to
 surpass the conventional constraints of having localised support within
 tangible or real markets. We would clearly be in error if we were to
 ignore the imperatives of international commerce and the presence of
 marks which could today be recognised to have a reputation spanning
 jurisdictions. We thus find ourselves unable to either accord primacy
 to goodwill or recognise it to be an inviolable condition for asserting
 passing off. 104. We also bear in mind the exposition of the legal position by the
 Australian Federal Court in Conagra which had traced the ―hard line‖
 and the ―softer approach‖ by courts in England while dealing with the
 subject of spillage of reputation. It was this which constrained it to
 observe that the line as advocated by the decisions rendered in the
 United Kingdom conflict with the needs and imperatives of
 contemporary business and international commerce. It is the view
 expressed in Conagra which also appears to be the position taken by
 courts in the United States as would be evident from the passages of
 McCarthy's seminal work on trademarks. In fact the author proceeds
 to suggest that perhaps the territoriality doctrine may itself have been
 rendered obsolete and no longer constitute a safe test to adopt for the
 purposes of addressing the complexities and interdependencies
 pervading the globally connected world that we live in. However, we

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 97 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 do not propose to either advocate or accept that view bound as we are
 by Toyota. The said decision of the Supreme Court in any event only
 speaks of goodwill having a territorial operation as opposed to
 reputation which may yet be found to exist even in the absence of
 commercial returns or a localised rooting. 105. We also bear in consideration the extensive review of the
 English position by the Federal Court of Australia which in Conagra
 had critically observed that the strict dissection between reputation
 and goodwill appeared to stem from reliance having been unjustifiably
 and overly placed on judgments rendered in the context of revenue
 laws and the inherent limitations in localising goodwill where the
 reputation of a business attains an omnipresent or singular stature.
 However, even if we proceed on the territoriality principle, and which
 Toyota commands us to do, the concept of reputation as explained
 above would warrant claims of cross border reputation being tested on
 lines suggested above. 106. Upon a due consideration of the aforenoted decisions and the
 authoritative texts referred to above, we find that the expressions
 ―reputation" and "goodwill" have been used conjunctively or
 interchangeably and the distinction between the two which the English
 Courts continue to mandate clearly appears to have become blurred in
 other jurisdictions. In fact, it is the position as taken by the English
 courts which has constrained courts in various jurisdictions to
 characterise it as being overly restrictive or the limiting view. The
 imperatives of reputation being considered to be a stand-alone factor

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 98 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 would also appear to be in tune with the scheme of well known marks
 which has come to be adopted and incorporated in statutes in various
 jurisdictions. In fact, the concept of well known marks was a facet
 which was alluded to even by the UKSC in Starbucks. This is evident
 from a reading of para 64 of the report. 107. Closer to home and in our own Trade Marks Act,199919, the
 expression ―well known trademark‖ stands defined in Section 2(1)(zg) as under:- 108. Section 11 of the TM Act, while proceeding to enumerate the
 relative grounds which would justify a refusal of registration also
 accords due recognition to marks which are well known in India. For
 the purposes of elaboration, we extract Section 11 hereinbelow:- 1[(a) a registered trade mark or an application under section 18 bearing an earlier date of filing or an international registration
 referred to in section 36E or convention application referred to in section 154 which has a date of application earlier than that of the
 trade mark in question, taking account, where appropriate, of the
 priorities claimed in respect of the trade marks;] (b) a trade mark which, on the date of the application for
 registration of the trade mark in question, or where appropriate, of
 the priority claimed in respect of the application, was entitled to
 protection as a well-known trade mark. (5) A trade mark shall not be refused registration on the grounds
 specified in sub-sections (2) and (3), unless objection on any one or
 more of those grounds is raised in opposition proceedings by the
 proprietor of the earlier trade mark. (6) The Registrar shall, while determining whether a trade mark is a
 well-known trade mark, take into account any fact which he
 considers relevant for determining a trade mark as a well-known
 trade mark including-- (i) the knowledge or recognition of that trade mark in the relevant
 section of the public including knowledge in India obtained as a
 result of promotion of the trade mark; (ii) the duration, extent and geographical area of any use of that
 trade mark; (iii) the duration, extent and geographical area of any promotion of
 the trade mark, including advertising or publicity and presentation,

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 100 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 at fairs or exhibition of the goods or services to which the trade
 mark applies; (iv) the duration and geographical area of any registration of or any
 application for registration of that trade mark under this Act to the
 extent that they reflect the use or recognition of the trade mark; (v) the record of successful enforcement of the rights in that trade
 mark, in particular the extent to which the trade mark has been
 recognised as a well-known trade mark by any court or Registrar
 under that record. (7) The Registrar shall, while determining as to whether a trade
 mark is known or recognised in a relevant section of the public for
 the purposes of sub-section (6), take into account-- (i) the number of actual or potential consumers of the goods or
 services; (ii) the number of persons involved in the channels of distribution
 of the goods or services; (iii) the business circles dealing with the goods or services, to
 which that trade mark applies. (8) Where a trade mark has been determined to be well known in at
 least one relevant section of the public in India by any court or
 Registrar, the Registrar shall consider that trade mark as a well-
 known trade mark for registration under this Act.
 (9) The Registrar shall not require as a condition, for determining
 whether a trade mark is a well-known trade mark, any of the
 following, namely:-- FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 101 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 (11) Where a trade mark has been registered in good faith
 disclosing the material informations to the Registrar or where right
 to a trade mark has been acquired through use in good faith before
 the commencement of this Act, then, nothing in this Act shall
 prejudice the validity of the registration of that trade mark or right
 to use that trade mark on the ground that such trade mark is
 identical with or similar to a well-known trade mark.‖ 109. As would be evident from the above, the provision creates a
 statutory injunct against the registration of a trademark if it be in
 conflict with a well known trademark in India. The reasons for the
 aforesaid are underlined as being the intent of the applicant to take
 unfair advantage of a mark of repute or be detrimental to its distinctive
 character. Sub-section (6) of Section 11 then proceeds to set out the
 factors which the Registrar would bear in mind for determining a
 trademark as being well known. These are defined to be the
 knowledge or recognition of that mark, the duration, extent and
 geographical area of its use, the duration, extent and geographical area
 in which promotional activities including advertising, publicity and
 presentation may have been carried out, the duration and geographical
 area of registrations as also record of successful enforcement of rights
 by the holder of the well known trademark. Section 7(7) sets out the
 factors which the Registrar would bear in mind while determining
 whether a trademark is known or recognized in a relevant section of
 the public and those determinative factors are defined to be the
 number of actual or potential consumers, the number of persons
 involved in the channels of distribution of the goods or services, as the
 case may be, and the business circles dealing with those goods or
 services. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 102 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 110. Of significant import is Section 7(9) and which mandates that
 the Registrar shall not require as a condition precedent the factors set
 out in clauses (i) to (v) for determining whether a trademark is well
 known. The aforesaid conditions extend to the actual use of the
 trademark in India, its registration, an application for registration
 having been filed in India or that the trademark is well known in or
 has been registered in any jurisdiction other than India. In terms of Section 11(9)(v) , the Registrar is also not obliged to find or come to a
 conclusion that the trademark is well known to the public at large in
 India before according recognition to a well known mark. 111. The aforesaid statutory provisions would thus appear to lend
 credence to both reputation and goodwill, constituting important and
 independent factors for the purposes of answering a claim of cross
 border reputation. As would be manifest from our reading of Section
 11 , while the Registrar would take into consideration the number of
 actual or potential consumers of goods or services provided by a well
 known trade mark, it is clearly not obliged to accord such recognition
 only in situations where the mark has been either used or registered.
 Ultimately, the Registrar has to bear in mind factors such as
 knowledge or recognition of that mark in the relevant section of the
 public including knowledge of the well known mark that may be
 derived from promotional activities. Section 11 thus does not purport
 to lay any overarching emphasis on an actual existence of goodwill
 alone. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 103 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 112. This would also be in consonance with the observations entered
 by the Supreme Court in Toyota when their Lordships significantly
 observed that while determining and answering the question of
 whether there has been a spillover of reputation and goodwill, the
 enquiry need not be confined to ascertaining the existence of a real
 market but the presence of the claimant through its mark within a
 particular territorial jurisdiction being sufficient. The presence of a
 mark in the market could well be established or proven on the basis of
 the extent of the promotion and advertisement of a well known mark,
 the knowledge of the said mark amongst a sizable section of the
 concerned segment of the public and its reputation being found to
 have spilled over and be sufficiently grounded in the minds of
 consumers in India. 113. We further find that a mere global reputation or asserted
 goodwill has neither been accorded a judicial imprimatur nor accepted
 as being sufficient by our courts to answer a claim of transborder
 reputation. In order to succeed on this score, it is imperative for the
 claimant to prove and establish the existence of a significant and
 substantial reputation and goodwill in the concerned territory. Unless
 a sizeable imprint of the presence of the mark is established amongst
 the consuming public, a claimant would not be entitled to protection.
 In fact, knowledge amongst a sizeable and noteworthy number of the
 concerned segment would be a sine qua non for proving reputation
 itself. Ultimately the question of a significant reputation would have
 to be tested on principles analogous to those enumerated in Section 11 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 104 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 of the TM Act. This, in our considered opinion, constitutes a
 sufficient, adequate and salutary safeguard which would allay and lay
 to rest doubts of us having adopted a too overly protective stance in
 favour of claimants who may otherwise have no intent of introducing
 goods or providing services in India. A claimant who has no presence
 or a customer base in India, has not established its presence by way of
 adequate advertisement or promotional activity or one who fails to
 establish a global reputation equally well known to the consuming
 public in India would thus be disentitled to claim protection. The
 adoption of the aforesaid standard would also subserve the
 imperatives of avoiding the stifling of local industry and enterprise.
 This in our considered opinion would be the correct approach and
 strike the right balance between brands whose reputation transcends
 territories and the interest of national enterprise and that of consumers
 on the other. 114. Having broadly noticed the legal principles which would apply,
 we then turn to the conclusions which the learned Single Judge
 ultimately came to record in this respect. 115. We find from a reading of Para 36.1 of the impugned judgment
 that the learned Judge has correctly observed that for a claim of
 passing off to succeed, the plaintiff would have to establish goodwill
 and reputation in India. In Para 36.3, the learned Judge proceeded to
 deal with a situation where a claimant alleging passing off may not be
 carrying on any commercial activity in the country. While dealing
 with this aspect, the learned Single Judge has significantly observed

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 105 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 that an advertising campaign or other promotional steps that may be
 taken may themselves embody an intent of such a claimant to expand
 or diversify into India. 116. The learned Judge proceeded to observe that, were this to be
 established, the charge of passing off may still sustain. The
 observations in Para 36.3 essentially appear to resonate what the
 Singapore Supreme Court observed in CDL Hotels Internationals
 Ltd. v. Pontiac Marina Pte Ltd.20 when while speaking through
 Chief Justice Menon, it had alluded to preparatory promotional
 activities that may be undertaken by a well-known trademark being
 evidence of transborder reputation. 117. The learned Judge in our considered opinion correctly
 expounded the legal position while observing as under:- 118. Proceeding further to cull out the legal principles on the anvil of
 which the issue of cross border reputation is liable to be adjudged, the
 learned Judge has observed as follows:- Existence of goodwill and reputation has, therefore, to be shown to
 exist in India. Universal or worldwide goodwill and reputation,
 sans any evidence of territorial goodwill and reputation, is not
 sufficient. (ii) Mere reputation is not enough. The claimant/plaintiff must
 show that it has significant goodwill. (iii) The actual existence of an office of the plaintiff in the country
 of the defendant is not necessary. (iv) However, the claimant must have customers within the country
 of the defendant, as opposed to persons in the defendant's country
 who are customers elsewhere. Thus, where the claimant's business
 is carried on abroad, it is not enough for the claimant to show that
 there are people in the defendant's country who happen to be its
 customers when they are abroad. (vi) However, it would be enough if the claimant could show that
 there were people in the defendant's country who, by booking with,
 or purchasing from an entity in the defendant's country, obtained
 the right to receive the claimant's service abroad. The person from
 whom such booking or purchase took place could be the claimant,
 or its branch office, or someone acting for or on behalf of the
 claimant. (vii) The claimant must be ―present through its mark in the
 territorial jurisdiction‖ of the country of the defendant, though the
 existence of a ―real market‖ was not necessary. (viii) Such presence could, for instance, be shown by extensive
 advertisements which had been circulated and seen, or read, in the
 country of the defendant. (ix) Once the existence of trans border reputation and goodwill was
 thus established, the claimant was not required, further, to prove
 the existence of actual confusion. The likelihood of the customer of
 average intelligence and imperfect recollection being confused, by
 the use of the impugned mark of the defendant, that the goods or
 services of the defendant were those of the claimant-plaintiff, was
 sufficient.‖ 119. Whilst we have no hesitance in affirming the conclusions as
 recorded in clause (i) above, we find ourselves unable to uphold the

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 107 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 conclusions recorded in clause (ii) when the learned Judge holds that
 mere reputation would not be enough and it would be incumbent upon
 the claimant to establish significant goodwill. This, in our considered
 opinion, would not sustain when one bears in mind the shift in the
 legal position enunciated above as well as the observations in Toyota
 itself where the Supreme Court chose to adopt the expressions
 ‗reputation and goodwill' concomitantly and also spoke of
 circumstances where a real market as ordinarily understood may not
 even exist. 120. Reputation attains added significance consequent to our
 Legislature having adopted the principles forming part of the Paris
 Convention and incorporating appropriate provisions with respect to
 well known marks. Goodwill necessarily entail us finding a claimant
 having earned significant and substantial revenue. Reputation of a
 mark, on the other hand, would stand satisfied if we were to find a
 substantial presence of that mark in the market. We also cannot
 possibly turn a blind eye to the changing and ever evolving trends in
 global commerce, the pervasive dissemination of knowledge of well-
 known marks in the age of the internet as well as the exponential
 surge in global travel. These were aspects which were alluded to and
 accepted as being relevant by Courts right from the time when the
 judgments in Allergan, Cadbury and Mac Personal Care came to be
 rendered. 121. It also becomes important to note that in Toyota, the Supreme
 Court had found itself unconvinced to view advertisements and data

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 108 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 available on web portals as being a secure foundation or the
 appropriate standard basis to safely address the question of necessary
 goodwill and reputation significantly observing and speaking of the
 limited online exposure as existing in 2001 and the nascent state of the
 internet at that point of time. In any case and bearing in mind the
 complementary usage of reputation and goodwill in Toyota itself
 would render the aforesaid conclusion to be incorrect. 122. We would also consider it appropriate to modulate the
 conclusions of the learned Single Judge as they appear in clause (vi).
 The learned Judge appears to have understood the creation of
 reputation and goodwill within India being founded on people in India
 booking with or purchasing from an entity in the country and thus
 being enabled to utilize the claimant's services abroad. The learned
 Judge held that such booking or purchase could take place if it were
 found that the claimant had a branch office or an agent acting for and
 on its behalf. The aforesaid prescription as narrowly framed is clearly
 rendered unsustainable bearing in mind the state of technology as it
 exists today and which in the present times could enable a consumer
 to avail of services while traveling abroad by purchasing and
 subscribing to an application service or even by making appropriate
 remittances abroad. 123. The Court notes that the conclusions as set out in Clause (vi) are
 essentially a replication of Para 52 of the judgment in Starbucks.
 However and as we had noticed hereinabove, Courts in England
 continue to adopt the narrow view of existence of goodwill, one which

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 109 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 has in some decisions been described as the hard line approach as
 opposed to the view taken by our courts and which have accepted the
 disappearing line of distinction between reputation and goodwill. 124. The conclusions would also not coalesce with what the learned
 Judge proceeded to observe in clauses (vii) and (viii). If the claimant
 were entitled to succeed in establishing a presence of its mark within a
 territory irrespective of the existence of a real market which was
 spoken of in Toyota, there would be no necessity of a booking or
 purchase being made either from the claimant or its branch office
 situated within the territory. 125. We find that our reservations in respect of clause (vi) stand
 further fortified from a reading of the conclusions of the learned Judge
 appearing in clause (viii) and which had spoken of extensive
 advertisements being sufficient to establish a significant presence. 126. Accordingly, we are of the considered opinion that the
 enunciation of the legal position with respect to cross border
 reputation as propounded by the learned Single Judge would have to
 be read as being modified and modulated to the extent indicated
 above. 127. We then proceed to the consideration of the facts and the
 evidence which was placed by respective sides before the learned
 Single Judge. However, before we proceed to do so, it becomes
 pertinent to note that the appellant does not appear to have argued the
 matter before the learned Single Judge based on it being a well-known
 mark as envisaged under the TM Act. We, however, note that it had

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 110 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 placed reliance on certain news articles, advertisements campaigns,
 promotional content displayed on its app, downloads and review of its
 mobile application. It, however, does not appear to have placed any
 evidence establishing that the individuals who had downloaded its
 mobile application, had either paid moneys to access its services,
 actually ended up using the app while travelling overseas or for that
 matter those individuals constituting a large and significant number in
 the concerned segment 128. Turning then to the facts which ultimately weighed with the
 learned Single Judge to refuse injunction, we deem it apposite to
 undertake a comparative analysis of the timeline of services provided
 by the appellant and the respondent:- 10.06.2019 Article published in CNBC about Bolt launching in PDF Pg
 London. 1200

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 111 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 February The Appellant ran an advertising campaign across PDF Pg
 2020 Ahmedabad, Pune, Surat, Chennai and Kolkata on its 1481
 mobile app. introduction of scooter charging docks in the Tallinn. 1214
 The blog mentions that in 2022 they are planning to
 deploy 1500 charging docks across European
 Markets. installed 100+ charging stations and have 1000+ users 1780

 04.02.2021 Post revealing that Bolt is available on amazon. PDF Pg 1781 14.07.2021 Registration of domain name ‗bolt.earth' PDF Pg 1354 01.08.2021 Since 1 August 2021, Respondent No.2 has become a Averred in
 dormant company as Respondent No.1 took over all Written
 the business of Respondent No. 2 Statement
 PDF Pg 383 30.08.2021 Application for Registration of Mark ‗BOLT' by the PDF Pg
 Respondent. 1394
 [the same is under objection]

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 113 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 07.10.2021 Reply by the Respondent to the Examination Report PDF Pg
 stating that the Device ‗BOLT' is unique and does not 1418
 bear any similarity with any of the conflicting marks

 26.10.2021 Defendant's blog depicting that ‗REVOS is now PDF Pg
 BOLT' 1350

 26.10.2021 Article in Deccan Herald about REVOS launching PDF Pg
 BOLT charging system. 1411

 26.10.2021 Article in India Today stating that REVOS plans to PDF Pg
 introduce BOLT charging points from 29 October 1787
 2021. The article also mentions that in the pre-launch phase,
 thousands of Bolt charging points have been installed
 across 60 different cities in India

 09.12.2021 Registration of domain name ‗boltevcharging.com' PDF Pg 1351 2022 The Respondents sponsored the IPL team ‗Delhi PDF Pg
 Capitals'. The mark Bolt was on the jersey of the 1330
 team. 2022 The Respondents mentioned in the Annual India EV PDF Pg
 Report Card FY 2022 for having installed 11,200 1822
 charging points in India

 March 2022 Total Revenue as per the Audited Financials of the PDF Pg
 Respondents from April 2020 to March 2022 is Rs. 1958
 1,28,67,266

 24.03.2022 Article in Business Standard and the Print stating that PDF Pg
 BOLT has installed 10,000 EV charging stations in 1789/
 India in the past 6 months. has partnered with Bolt to set up 50,000 charging 1785
 stations in India in the next one year. 31.08.2022 Chartered Accountant certificate, certifying that till PDF Pg
 31 August 2022, the total amount spent on promotion 1735
 and publication of brand name ‗BOLT' stands at Rs. FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 114 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 17,49,36,464

 14.09.2022 The mark ‗REVOS' was registered. PDF Pg 1729 05.06.2022 The Respondents replied to the legal notice dated PDF Pg
 24.05.2022 denying the claim raised by the Appellant. 1319

 14.10.2022 Application made for registration of BOLT.EARTH. PDF Pg 1427 [the same is under examination] 129. It becomes pertinent to note that the articles dated 02 April
 2019 and 10 June 2019 published in CNBC appeared on a website of
 the said entity. The appellant did not present or lead any evidence of
 the extent of exposure received by those website publications within
 the Indian domain. Additionally, the appellant is stated to have run an
 advertising campaign spanning five cities in India in February 2020.
 This too, in our considered opinion, has been rightly discarded by the
 learned Single Judge as it fails to constitute compelling evidence of
 cross border reputation. A singular advertisement campaign restricted
 to five cities when juxtaposed against the geographical expanse of our
 nation, clearly falls short of what would constitute a safe basis to
 answer the issue of cross border reputation. 130. While technological advancements and precedents on the
 subject may have enabled us to do away with the requirement of a real
 market, the strength of transnational reputation acquired by a
 trademark would necessarily have to be established and tested on the
 metric of adequate evidence of substantial goodwill or reputation in
 the Indian market. The evidence led on this score clearly failed to

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 115 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 adequately address the seminal test of a high level of familiarity with
 the mark amongst the concerned segment of our population- a pivotal
 factor when it comes to establishing cross border reputation. 131. The articles appearing in a blog posted on the official website of
 BOLT, in the Biotech Times and in Intelligent Transport were also
 correctly debunked by the learned Single Judge in the absence of any
 evidence having been led by the appellant of the penetration of those
 periodicals amongst the concerned segment of the populace in India.
 We are thus essentially left with the article which appeared in the 11
 January 2022 edition of the Economic Times and spoke of the interest
 evinced by various investors in the appellant and the investment
 money garnered by it. The said article also cannot possibly be read as
 constituting evidence of a substantial presence of the mark in India. 132. As would be evident from the chart extracted hereinabove, the
 publications and the promotional activities which were undertaken by
 the appellant clearly appeared to be sporadic rather than a continued
 undertaking of promotional activities within India as a consequence of
 which it could have been held that it had fulfilled the test of a
 significant and substantial presence. 133. Insofar as app downloads are concerned, the appellant had
 alluded to the two lakh instances when persons in India had
 downloaded its app. The appellant had also in this connection referred
 to various reviews of its BOLT mobile app on the Apple App Store
 and the Google Play Store. We are constrained to observe that the
 mere downloading of an app would not be sufficient to accept the

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 116 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 contention of a sizeable consumer base. The appellant also did not
 lead any evidence of the number of Indian consumers who had utilised
 its services while travelling abroad. More importantly, the appellant
 failed to establish that these downloads and reviews would represent a
 significant or substantial number when it comes to Indian consumers
 who generally avail of ride hailing and mobility related services when
 travelling overseas. 134. We also bear in consideration the limited roll out of EV
 charging stations by the appellant at the time when the matter was
 heard by the learned Single Judge. Contrasted with the above, we find
 that the respondent asserted having adopted the mark BOLT for its EV
 charging stations in 2018. Its impending launch was announced on the
 YouTube channel in October 2020. We also take into consideration
 the invoices showing sales of the Revos Bolt charger in November
 2020 as well as the posts placed on social media platforms announcing
 the launch of its services and it by January 2021 having installed more
 than a 100 charging stations. Of equal significance is the material
 placed on the record by the respondent and which was liable to be
 recognised as evidencing a Pan-India network of charging points
 having been established by March 2022. 135. The argument of allied and cognate services becomes irrelevant
 once we find that the appellant had failed to meet the tests of cross
 border reputation as enunciated in Toyota. 136. We thus come to conclude that while the appellant may have
 been able to establish a limited knowledge and awareness of its app

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 117 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58 and the bouquet of services offered on its platform, it clearly, as the
 learned Single Judge has correctly found, failed to meet the test of
 significant and substantial reputational spill over. 137. We consequently uphold the order of the learned Single Judge
 and dismiss the appeal. 138. Accordingly, and for all the aforesaid reasons, the instant appeal
 stands dismissed. All pending applications shall stand disposed of
 accordingly. YASHWANT VARMA, J. DHARMESH SHARMA, J. NOVEMBER 30, 2023
 RW/neha

 FAO(OS) (COMM) 45/2023 Signature Not Verified Page 118 of 118 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:30.11.2023 15:33:58