JYOTI SINGH, J. I.A. 11030/2022 (under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC , by Plaintiff) 1. This judgment will dispose of the present application seeking interim
 injunction against the Defendants and all others acting on their behalf from
 making, producing, distributing, broadcasting, communicating to the
 public, adapting, telecasting, exhibiting in theatres, and/or on television
 and/or online platforms (including any 'OTT platform' or other streaming
 platform) the impugned film titled "Shamshera", or any part(s) thereof, or Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 1 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 any other similar work amounting to infringement of Plaintiff's copyright
 in his copyrighted script titled 'Kabu na chhadein Khet' (hereinafter
 referred to as the 'KNCK'). 2. Facts to the extent relevant for the present application are that in or
 around 2006, Plaintiff conceived the idea/concept of a work, which he set
 out in writing and is stated to be a fictionalised period drama set around the
 18th Century. In the year 2008, KNCK, the literary work was manifested/
 condensed into a short cinematography film having a runtime of 10
 minutes, written and directed by the Plaintiff, wherein the story created by
 the Plaintiff was set in the 19th Century. In October, 2008, the film was
 screened at the Spinning Wheel Film Festival, Toronto under title KNCK
 and the voice over was done by renowned actor Late Shri Om Puri.
 Plaintiff continued to further flesh out the work and wrote a full-fledged
 story/script/screenplay running into 40 pages. On 11.05.2009, the concept
 work was registered with "The Film Writer's Association". 3. Plaintiff asserts that looking out for an appropriate opportunity to
 pitch his script to a large production house, on 03.02.2016 he approached
 Defendant No. 5, who was the then Creative Head of Defendant No. 2, so
 that his work KNCK could be made into a big budget cinematograph film
 and communicated the main aspects of his work, including that the story
 was a tale of revenge, oppression, enslavement and freedom involving a
 small village's rebellion against a mighty foreign invader. Defendant No. 5
 responded to the email vide his email dated 04.02.2016 and expressed
 interest in KNCK and asked the Plaintiff to submit a synopsis and
 screenplay along with details of Plaintiff's professional background.
 Defendant No. 5 also stated that Plaintiff should sign a document which
 Defendant No. 2's legal team would forward in line with their standard Signature Not Verifiedprocedure, following which Plaintiff's material would be read. It later Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 2 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 turned out that the document was a Non-Disclosure Agreement (hereinafter
 referred to as the 'NDA'). Defendant No. 5 communicated that a meeting
 could be set up thereafter, once Defendant No. 2 decided to consider
 working on KNCK. Subsequently, correspondences were exchanged
 between Plaintiff and Defendants No. 2 and 5. 4. It is further averred that by email dated 04.02.2016 Plaintiff received
 a draft NDA from Defendant No. 2's team seeking certain particulars from
 the Plaintiff to finalise the Agreement. Plaintiff re-worked and further
 fleshed out the script/screenplay and also populated/printed and signed the
 NDA. By an email dated 08.02.2016, Plaintiff shared the required
 particulars with Defendants No. 2 and 5 along with a copy of the signed
 NDA and by another email dated 03.02.2016 shared the synopsis of
 KNCK. Responding thereto, Defendant No. 5 by an email dated
 23.02.2016, wrote to the Plaintiff that Defendant No. 2's team had read the
 synopsis and requested for sharing the script/screenplay. Promptly the
 Plaintiff shared an attachment of the updated screenplay/script with
 Defendants No. 2 and 5 by email dated 27.02.2016. By email dated
 04.03.2016, Defendant No. 5 not only acknowledged reading of the
 screenplay but also stated that he was interested and suggested next steps
 including asking the Plaintiff to develop the work further and share a
 complete script with dialogues to see how it plays out clearly. Plaintiff
 shared a further re-worked script/screenplay on 12.05.2016 and
 significantly on 17.05.2016, Defendant No. 5 acknowledged that he had
 read the complete script and also appreciated the work done. Defendant
 No. 5 invited the Plaintiff for a meeting at Defendant No. 2's office to
 discuss the work further. 5. It is further stated that Plaintiff was informed that, an in-house Signature Not VerifiedDirector in Defendant No. 2 i.e. Defendant No. 6 was interested in KNCK Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 3 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 and had offered to read the script shared by the Plaintiff following which
 the project could be taken ahead. Between August and December, 2016
 extensive correspondence/communication took place between the Plaintiff
 and Defendants No. 5 and 6 including meetings with the creative team of
 Defendant No. 2, which according to the Plaintiff is evident from
 communications dated 04.08.2016, 06.08.2016, 08.08.2016 etc. and going
 upto 25.12.2016. Each of these emails, as asserted, shed light on the fact
 that the script was read by Defendant No. 6 and even hardcopies of
 Plaintiff's revised work were shared between Defendants No. 5 and 6.
 Plaintiff asserts that certain suggestions/inputs were given to the Plaintiff,
 which were incorporated under the impression that his work would develop
 into a cinematograph film albeit the changes were mere embellishments
 and did not detract from the core and/or kernel or the principal ethos of the
 Plaintiff's work. 6. In January, 2017, however, Defendant No. 5 informed the Plaintiff,
 to his shock, that he had no intent to work on KNCK as Defendant No. 2
 had decided to produce another film of the same genre and Plaintiff was
 free to pursue other opportunities. As it later transpired the film that was
 finally released was 'Kesari'. Having apprehension that 'Kesari' was based
 on Plaintiff's work, he approached this Court in 2019 alleging similarities
 in the poster of the film. However, on viewing the film 'Kesari', Plaintiff
 found that only commonality was that the script and the film were of the
 same genre and therefore, Plaintiff honestly and candidly decided not to
 pursue the legal action. 7. Plaintiff asserts that in May, 2018, Defendant No. 1 announced its
 film titled 'Shamshera' produced by Defendant No. 1 with Defendant No. 6
 as writer/director and his wife Defendant No. 7 as screenplay writer. Under Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 4 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 the guise of confidentiality, several details involving the film were
 contemporaneously not disclosed. 8. Plaintiff avers that suddenly out of the blue in October, 2020,
 Defendant No. 6 reached out to the Plaintiff and as the correspondence that
 ensued would indicate, Defendant No. 6 wanted to touch base with the
 Plaintiff and asked him to share the latest draft of his work. Defendant No.
 6 expressed his intention to go through material again as he was in the
 process of finalising his next film. Understanding the strategy of Defendant
 No. 6, Plaintiff decided not to expend any further time on communicating
 with Defendant No. 6, only to find that on 24.06.2022, trailer of
 'Shamshera' was released on YouTube and from the trailer it was clear that
 the film was based on and/or was an adaptation and/or a substantial
 reproduction/imitation/copy of Plaintiff's work. This was not only a
 copyright infringement but a case of breach of confidentiality by the
 Defendants. Defendants No. 2, 5 and 6 and through them the others had
 complete access to Plaintiff's work and had parted information to third
 parties including Defendant No. 1 to enrich themselves unjustly. The
 access is further evident from the sudden request from Defendant No. 6 in
 2020 even after he had moved from Defendant No. 2 to Defendant No. 1. 9. As per the trailer the film was slated for a theatrical release on
 22.07.2022. With utmost dispatch Plaintiff wrote an email to Defendants
 No. 2, 5 and 6 on 25.06.2022 stating that the film was entirely based on
 KNCK. Defendant No. 6 by an email dated 28.06.2022 denied that there
 was any substantial similarity between the rival works but there was no
 denial of access to the entirety of Plaintiff's work. Plaintiff by an email
 dated 29.06.2022 reiterated that similarities were too many to ignore and
 sought an audience before screening of the film to allay his apprehensions Signature Not Verifiedat the earliest only to be informed by Defendant No. 6 that there was no Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 5 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 need to engage further on the subject. This was followed by a legal notice
 on 06.07.2022 by the Plaintiff, to which there was no response from the
 concerned Defendants, constraining the Plaintiff to approach this Court. 10. Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Plaintiff
 contended that there were striking similarities between the rival works,
 which cannot be a mere coincidence. Mere comparison of the Plaintiff's
 work with the impugned film would show that Plaintiff's work has been
 plagiarized by the Defendants, who have also acted in gross breach of
 confidentiality. Defendants' impugned film 'Shamshera' is a substantial
 reproduction and/or adaptation and/or imitation and/or copying of
 Plaintiff's work KNCK, details of which have been set out in a comparative
 table in para 29 of the amended plaint. Defendants have not only infringed
 Plaintiff's literary work(s) in KNCK by copying it substantially in their
 film but have also copied the expressions. The rival works when compared,
 relate to the same genre i.e. period drama. Plaintiff's world/characters
 include the underdogs with a particular setting in North India. The
 commonality extends to active protagonist, the legend, the antagonist,
 animal, birds, boiling hot water etc. used in movie. The core story in the
 script involves revenge by the son, oppression by foreign invaders, the
 Afghans, enslavement, freedom, spanning two generations involving a
 father and his son, based on fictionalised village set in the 1700s/1800s.
 The script, as it goes, deals with father's legacy and his defiance to fight
 the foreign invaders which led to his treacherous killing and which proves
 to be a turning point for the son. The son leads a rebellion against a
 powerful Afghan army and attacks the antagonist's fortress, exhibiting
 extraordinary battle skills and valour with the final showdown being face-
 off with handheld weapons and hand to hand combat between the son and Signature Not VerifiedRashid Khan. This is really the substance of Plaintiff's work and Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 6 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 Defendants' film is substantially similar in terms of the genre, the
 underdogs, setting, active protagonist and antagonist, use of boiling hot
 water, birds, secret tunnels. The core plot of the film is revenge by the son,
 oppression by Britishers, enslavement and freedom and a transit between
 two generations. 11. Much emphasis was laid by learned Senior Counsel for the Plaintiff
 on the fact that two songs 'Fitoor' and 'Ji Huzoor' are slavishly copied by
 the Defendants and a detailed comparative table as well as screenshots
 from the film to support the stand of the Plaintiff were relied on. Compared
 and contrasted with the stark similarities, the dissimilarities brought forth
 by the Defendants are trivial and the defence set up against infringement
 that the similarities, if any, are insignificant and coincidental or those
 which are common to most films, is a desperate attempt to obfuscate the
 issue. 12. It was next contended that Defendant No. 6 had clear access to the
 script/screenplay of the Plaintiff and apparently the same was shared with
 Defendant No. 1 as a result of which there are so many similarities in the
 film viz-a-viz the Plaintiff's script. The contradictory stands taken by
 Defendant No. 6 is itself evidence of the fact that being privy to the script
 and having access thereto he colluded with Defendant No. 1 and facilitated
 the making of the impugned film. Post the issuance of legal notice by the
 Plaintiff, Defendant No. 6 in the reply dated 15.07.2022 stated that he left
 Defendant No. 2 in May, 2016. Defendant No. 6 admits that he met the
 Plaintiff in Defendant No. 2's office in August, 2016 and contacted
 Defendant No. 4 in October, 2016 seeking further improvement in the
 script to his satisfaction. However, in reply to the injunction application it
 is stated that he left Defendant No. 2 in 2018 and joined Defendant No. 1 Signature Not Verifiedimmediately. Per contra in the additional reply, it is averred that he left Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 7 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 Defendant No. 2 in 2017 and was freelancing till he joined Defendant No. 1
 in February, 2018. In fact, Defendant No. 6 perused the script even post-
 leaving Defendant No. 2 solely to secure his interests and make the film as
 his own creation. The song Fitoor finds mention in the script and narrative
 of the Plaintiff, however, the narrative in the script of the Defendants does
 not portray the manner in which the song is finally presented in the film.
 This and the fact that two allegedly independent writers, Defendants No. 8
 and 9, who had never discussed the script with the Plaintiff, made a
 substantial copy is reflective of the fact that the common factor was
 Defendant No. 6, who admittedly had access to the script of the Plaintiff. 13. It was next contended that under Section 13 of the Copyright Act,
 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the '1957 Act') copyright subsists in
 Plaintiff's work and it is sufficient if the Plaintiff proves that Defendants'
 film is a substantial copy of Plaintiff's work if not a copy of the entire
 work. By virtue of Section 14 of the 1957 Act all rights in the copyrighted
 work vest in the Plaintiff as enumerated in the said provision and this is an
 exclusive right to the exclusion of all others including the Defendants. The
 acts of the Defendants amount to infringement of Plaintiff's copyright by
 virtue of a deeming fiction under Section 51 of the 1957 Act. 14. Learned Senior Counsel for the Plaintiff had emphatically drawn the
 attention of the Court to the comparative tables, alleging that there are
 multiple similarities in the script of the Plaintiff and the impugned film, but
 without prejudice to the said argument, had also contended that the test is
 whether the average audience would recognise the appropriation and
 invoked the unambiguous concept of de minimis. It was argued that the
 position of law as it obtains today in the field of idea-expression dichotomy
 is that even common ideas and themes are protected. In Anil Gupta and Signature Not VerifiedAnr. v. Kunal Dasgupta and Ors., 2002 SCC OnLine Del 250, Delhi High Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 8 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 Court has held that in modern day, when small screen has taken over the
 earlier means of mass communication like radio, idea/concept/script of a
 broadcaster has wider potentiality of capitalising revenue and if that idea is
 not protected then the person who has conceived the idea, to be translated
 into a reality TV show, which could be a key to its success, then the
 channels with their enormous resources would always be in a better
 position to adopt the idea from any Author and develop it at their own end,
 leaving the original Author of the concept high and dry. An idea per se has
 no copyright but if it is developed into a concept fledged with adequate
 details, the same is registrable under the 1957 Act. 15. Mr. Abhishek Malhotra, learned counsel represented Defendants
 No. 1, 3, 8 and 9 and Mr. Rajshekhar Rao, learned Senior Counsel
 addressed arguments on behalf of Defendants No. 6 and 7 and albeit
 separate written statements were filed but the arguments primarily are
 common and a common written note has been filed on their behalf. 16. It was contended on behalf of the Defendants that the Plaintiff has
 failed to make out case for grant of interim injunction, as neither of the
 ingredients of prima facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable
 injury, have been made out. To establish a prima facie case of copyright
 infringement, Plaintiff must establish that Defendants had access to
 Plaintiff's work and there is substantial similarity in the rival works i.e. an
 average person upon considering two works would inevitably conclude that
 Defendants have copied substantial and material portions and the original
 elements in Plaintiff's work. The two tests are conjunctive and mere access
 is not enough for the Plaintiff to prove infringement by the Defendants. The
 reason that substantial similarity is to be established independent of access
 is because the right conferred in relation to a literary work under Section Signature Not Verified14(a) of the 1957 Act is with respect to the work as a whole or a substantial Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 9 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 part thereof and only when a substantial copy is shown, Section 51 of the
 1957 Act comes into play. While Defendant No. 6 cannot deny access,
 however, in the absence of the Plaintiff demonstrating substantial
 similarity no injunction can be granted. In the past, Plaintiff had sued the
 Defendants in relation to the film titled 'Kesari' and while there was
 access, Plaintiff had withdrawn the case after watching the film as the only
 commonality between Plaintiff's script and 'Kesari' was that they were of
 same genre. 17. It was urged that the legal requirements required to be fulfilled by
 the Plaintiff to establish a prima facie case of copyright infringement are
 crystalized by the Supreme Court in the judgment of R.G. Anand v. Delux
 Films and Others , (1978) 4 SCC 118. In the principles culled out by the
 Supreme Court it is clearly elucidated that in order to be actionable, copy
 must be a substantial and material one, which at once leads to the
 conclusion that Defendant is guilty of piracy and the surest and safest test
 to determine violation of copyright is to see if a reader, spectator or viewer
 after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets
 an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy
 of the original. 18. Plaintiff's argument on substantial similarity is not only flawed but is
 also inconsistent through the course of hearing. The primary flaw in the
 argument is that rather than comparing the script with the film to show
 substantial similarity, Plaintiff took the film, as presented, to be an
 expression of how his script would be filmed/executed and then proceed to
 pick individual elements, disjointed from the context to support the
 allegation of substantial similarity. Furthermore, erroneously the Plaintiff
 seeks to claim rights over factual/thematic/ideation such as period drama, Signature Not Verifiedstory of suppression by foreign invaders and revenge and father-son story Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 10 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 where father looks like the son and takes revenge. Interestingly, while
 initially Plaintiff alleged that the entire film was a copy of the script, the
 argument over the course of hearing changed to a substantial copy and
 finally emphasis was laid on the two songs and their identity. While this
 inconsistent stand cannot be permitted, even otherwise none of the three
 aspects alleged to be copied substantially, can establish infringement by the
 Defendants, even prima facie. Insofar as the period drama is concerned,
 Plaintiff himself admits that the script is inspired by 'Bahubali' and in any
 case there are many other films that have been period dramas. Countless
 films, such as, Kranti, Kesari, Mard, Braveheart, etc. have been made on
 story of suppression by foreign invaders and revenge. The aspect of
 revenge in Plaintiff's script is nothing to do with the son taking revenge of
 the father and there are only stray references to the protagonist's father in
 Plaintiff's script. It is also to be noted that there are multiple films which
 have presented this thematic idea and Plaintiff cannot claim monopoly. As
 an illustration, movies like Zanjeer, Agneepath, Aakhree Rasta, etc. were
 cited on behalf of the Defendants. Similarly, use of burning oil to scald has
 been used in multiple stories/films including Slumdog Millionaire etc. and
 the secret under water tunnels are also featuring in several films such as
 The Tunnel, The Great Escape and so on. Plaintiff claims similarity in the
 theme on the anvil of the antagonists in both works being barbaric foreign
 invaders, who plunder the village and the protagonists fighting for freedom
 from this terror. A 'theme' cannot be accorded copyright protection as per
 the settled law and additionally, there are various films which have typified
 this theme, such as Kesari and is best a 'stock'. Even otherwise the themes
 are materially different and distinct in the rival works. While the village of
 Noorpur is central to the theme and story of KNCK, as possibly the only Signature Not Verifiedvillage that withstands the terror and plunder of the Afghans, there is no Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 11 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 such village that is subject matter of the film. Instead, the film refers to a
 tribe of erstwhile warriors who have been shunned by the society as lower
 caste and have retreated to the jungle, where the only way of survival is by
 looting the upper castes. The upper caste locals bribe the British, who are
 not portrayed as barbaric invaders, to get rid of the looting menace of the
 Khameran tribe. The central barbaric character is not a foreigner but
 Shuddh Singh, an upper caste Police officer, who tricks the Khamerans into
 slavery. 19. It was contended that the theme of death of a father and the son
 carrying forward his legacy is also not copyrightable. Multiple films such
 as Agneepath, Braveheart are based on this theme. Character of Shamsher
 in KNCK is not relevant or central to the script, which revolves around
 resistance of Kartar and his villagers against the marauding Afghans.
 Kartar is not carrying forward his father's legacy. The film revolves around
 the treaty signed between the British and Shamshera, a price that
 Khamerans had to pay for their freedom and the task which could not be
 completed by the father due to his killing, is completed by the son Balli.
 There are differences between the lead characters and their respective roles
 including the climax. There cannot be a copyright infringement in concepts
 or ideas which emerge from the scenes in the script, besides the fact that
 they are common to several earlier films or are based in history. 20. It was argued that much emphasis was laid by the Plaintiff on the
 fact that there are certain scenes in the film such as back-stabbing in the
 climax as well as in the description of the song sequence for the song
 Fitoor including the scene of the protagonist putting on a ghaghra for the
 song Ji Huzoor. The over-emphasis is misplaced, since unlike a script,
 which is an individual and isolated process, film making is collaborative, Signature Not Verifiedinvolving contributions from various creative persons including lyricists, Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 12 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 music composers, choreographers, art directors, producers etc. Thus, even
 when a script/screen play is said to be 'locked', it is always subject to
 modifications on account of various factors such as locations, weather,
 availability of props, animals etc. 21. It was contended that insofar as the two songs are concerned, which
 was really the bone of contention to begin with, this comparison itself is
 incorrect and impermissible in law and contrary to the ratio of the judgment
 in R.G. Anand (supra), which holds that works must be compared as a
 whole and not by picking and choosing parts of one to compare with parts
 of another. The description of the song by the Plaintiff is, in any event, not
 protectable since it consists only of an idea/theme of two lovers engaged in
 a sensuous song sequence in the backdrop of snow and wrapped in a red
 dari. Perhaps the only part protectable is the use of red dari, which
 significantly was not used by the Defendants. The scene description in the
 Plaintiff's script is not original and unprotectable since the same has been
 used in numerous films such as Mohra, Chandni etc. Moreover, even on the
 touchstone of qualitative comparison, the song sequences are not a
 substantial part of Plaintiff's work, since four out of five versions of the
 script do not have this description of the song. There is no co-relation
 between the description in the script and the screenplay of the song in the
 Defendants' film as is demonstrable from a mere viewing of the song.
 Defendants' song contains a more detailed expression and bigger canvass
 of a generic love sequence, typical to a lot of Bollywood film songs, where
 on a plateau with sand, the lead actor and actress make love with each
 other, finally leading to their marriage. 22. Plaintiff has repeatedly asserted that there is stark similarity in the
 use of ghaghra in a song sequence Ji Huzoor. According to the Plaintiff's Signature Not Verifiedscript, in one of the scenes there is a reference to a song where an Iranian Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 13 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 dancer swirls her ghaghra and various dancers emerge from under the
 ghaghra. However, contrasted with this, in the film there is no swirling of
 the ghaghra to show emergence of children. The song sequence has the
 protagonist dancing with kids and as part of the mischievous tilt to the song
 sequence, the man jumps off a portion of a living space and laches on to the
 clothing to cushion his fall, none of which is present in the Plaintiff's
 script. There cannot be a copyright in an idea of using a certain piece of
 clothing, which is common place and nor in the idea of clothing being
 swirled or emergence of people from under it. 23. The entire exercise of infringement analysis by the Plaintiff is
 convoluted and unknown to law. Plaintiff is required to first identify his
 work, especially the qualitative substantive portions and then demonstrate
 how those have been substantially copied by the Defendants as an
 expression, in the film. Instead, Plaintiff has taken Defendants' film as the
 starting point, instead of his script as the base and juxtaposed different and
 out of context situations from his script to distort and fit the same into
 Defendants' film. Interestingly, there is no dispute or denial in replication
 to the paras of the written statement where Defendants have brought forth a
 summary of scene by scene flow of Plaintiff's five scripts compared with
 scene by scene flow of the film. Plaintiff has himself acknowledged that his
 story is based on and inspired by earlier films such as 'Bahubali' and
 different parts of the script referred to song sequences such as 'kajra
 mohabbatwala' or 'mere haathon mein nau nau churiyan' evidencing that
 inspiration from existing works is common place in the film industry. 24. It was argued that the ideas, expressions, storytelling, storyline,
 characters, caste issues, are different in the rival works and thus mere
 access to the script albeit admitted by the Defendants, would not justify a Signature Not Verifiedfinding of copyright infringement, in absence of demonstrated substantial Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 14 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 similarity in the two works. Plaintiff relied on the judgment in Anil Gupta
 (supra), to argue that an injunction order was granted in respect of use of
 an idea of an age-old tradition such as Swayamwar and therefore, generic
 elements can be monopolized and protected under the Act. This is a
 fallacious argument as in the said judgment the injunction was granted not
 to protect the concept of Swayamwar but the manner in which it was
 expressed or portrayed by the Plaintiffs and another aspect that went
 against the Defendants was their refusal to provide details of their proposed
 expression of Swayamwar. In the present case, the ideas, expressions etc.
 all being different, the judgment is inapplicable. 25. It was also urged that Plaintiff has misdirected itself in arguing the
 principle of de minimis non curat lex. The said principle is advanced as an
 argument in defence of a fair use and while taking such a defence there is
 an admission of direct copying of parts of the copyrighted work. In other
 words, the defence is that notwithstanding the admitted copying, the same
 is so miniscule in the larger scheme of things that Court ought not to waste
 its time in adjudicating the matter. In the present case, Defendants' position
 clearly is that there is no copying at all of the Plaintiff's work and thus, the
 defence of de minimis does not arise. Plaintiff has also argued, relying upon Section 14(d)(i)(B) that even a small amount of copying such as a song,
 photograph of a film, amounts to copyright infringement and even if the
 Defendants have quantitatively taken a small portion of Plaintiff's work i.e.
 the song sequence alone, it would constitute copyright infringement.
 Plaintiff claims that his right under Section 14(a)(iv) has been infringed i.e.
 right to make a cinematograph film based on the script which is a literary
 work and therefore, he cannot now make a film on his own script since the
 Defendants have made the film substantially similar to the script. Albeit Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 15 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 this submission is not pleaded, even otherwise, Plaintiff cannot use an
 analogy from a provision of law relating to a different category of work. 26. Plaintiff has failed to make out a prima facie case of copyright
 infringement. In terms of the settled principles of grant of interim
 injunction, the standard required to be considered for balance of
 convenience and irreparable injury has been aptly elucidated in the
 judgment in the case of Wander Ltd. and Another v. Antox India P. Ltd. ,
 1990 Supp SCC 727, where the Court held that corresponding hardships/
 inconveniences likely to be caused to either party in the event the
 injunction is or is not granted have to be considered by Courts. It is
 Plaintiff's pleaded case that he was aware of the film since May, 2018 and
 in October, 2020, Defendant No. 6 reached out to him to ask for the script.
 Despite this, Plaintiff waited till 03 days prior to the proposed release date
 to file the present suit. Additionally, film has been released in theatres and
 on the OTT platform and is already in the public domain. Grave hardship
 shall be caused to the Defendants if the satellite release is stalled or
 Defendants are directed to take the film of the various platforms, as
 multiple agreements have been signed with third parties in this regard. On
 the other hand, in case the Court comes to a conclusion, post-trial that
 Plaintiff has been wronged, he can always be compensated in terms of
 money, but the injury caused to the Defendants shall be irreparable and
 irretrievable, if injunction is granted. Moreover, Plaintiff's work has never
 been published and it is always open to him to make a separate film based
 on the script authored by him. 27. Arguing on behalf of the Plaintiff, in rejoinder, it was contended that
 it is incorrect for the Defendants to argue that the script of the Plaintiff and
 the film are different in ideas and/or expressions, screen play, plot etc. The Signature Not Verifiedchanges apparently made in the film are nothing but embellishments and Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 16 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 the central kernel/core/ethos of Plaintiff's work have been blatantly copied.
 It is not the manner in which the film is presented but the basic ploy or plot
 and the storyline are the focal points of comparison to see if there is a
 substantial copy. Plaintiff pleads that the basic plot and storyline of the
 script has been copied and that too substantially, thereby infringing
 Plaintiff's copyright in the script. Defendant No. 6's statement that film is a
 periodic film and not a historical drama makes it evident that the film has
 taken several inputs from the script of the Plaintiff, which was admittedly
 accessible to him. It is a settled position of law that plots and storylines in
 the script are protected under the copyright law and mere reduction in
 figures and modifications introduced in some characters or clothes or
 colours are too trivial to escape violations of copyright. 28. The contention was that in R.G. Anand (supra), the Supreme Court
 has held that the question is not whether the alleged infringer could have
 obtained the same information by going to the same source used by the
 Plaintiff in his work, but whether he did in fact go to the same source and
 did his own independent research. In other words, whether he made an
 independent production or made a substantial and unfair use of Plaintiff's
 work. It was also held that in an attempt to show that he is not guilty of
 copyright infringement, it is always possible for a person intending to take
 advantage of the intellectual effort and labour of another to so develop his
 own product that it covers a wider field than the earlier product and
 introduce changes in the common area in order to disguise the attempt at
 plagiarism. In Kapil Chopra v. Kunal Deshmukh and Others , 2012 SCC
 OnLine Bom 1302, the Bombay High Court held that the Court will look
 strictly at not only the blatant examples of copyright but also at
 reprehensible attempts at colourable imitation and once the Court comes to Signature Not Verifieda conclusion that the script of the Plaintiff and the rival film has the same Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 17 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 genesis in the idea, a clear case of grant of injunction is made out. In
 Harman Pictures N.V. v. Osborne and Others, (1967) 1 WLR 723, it was
 held that similarities of incidences and situations afford prima facie
 evidence of copying and in absence of any explanation by the Defendant
 regarding the sources, Plaintiffs must succeed. In Urmi Juvekar Chiang v.
 Global Broadcast News Ltd. and Anr. , 2007 SCC OnLine Bom 471,
 Bombay High Court held that the Court needs to ascertain whether the
 work of the Defendants is similar in material and substantial aspects
 with that of the Plaintiff and referred to the observations in an earlier
 judgment of the Bombay High Court in Zee Telefilms Ltd. v. Sundial
 Communications Pvt. Ltd. and Others , 2003 SCC OnLine Bom 344,
 where it was held that it is enough that substantial parts are lifted and no
 play-right can excuse wrong for showing how much of his work he did not
 pirate. In Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation v. Sohail Maklai
 Entertainment Pvt. Ltd. and Another , 2010 SCC OnLine Bom 1577,
 Bombay High Court held that it is the quality of the copied work and not
 the quantity that would determine infringement of the work. Reliance was
 placed on a paragraph from Halsbury Law of England, Fourth Edition,
 2006, Volume 9(2), Page 316, stating that sufficient objective similarity
 between two works and some casual connection is enough to establish
 copyright infringement. 29. Assuming without admitting that what has been copied are stock
 elements, however, it cannot be a matter of sheer coincidence that so many
 stock elements are common between the script and the film. It is a matter of
 fact that Plaintiff's script is a period drama containing underdogs, set in
 North India, oppressed by foreign invaders, having an active protagonist, a
 legend and an antagonist and after all this was shared with Defendant No. Signature Not Verified6, merely making changes to the film as trivial as 'Sikhs to Khamerans' Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 18 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 and 'Afghans to Britishers' cannot give any defence to the Defendants. In India TV Independent News Service Pvt. Ltd. and Others v. Yashraj
 Films Pvt. Ltd. , 2012 SCC OnLine Del 4298, a Division Bench of this
 Court and in Shemaroo Entertainment Limited v. News Nation Network
 Private Limited , 2022 SCC OnLine Bom 930, the Bombay High Court
 have clearly enunciated that it is the qualitative element which matters and
 even if the exploitation is miniscule it cannot come to the aid of an
 infringer. The factors laid down in India TV Independent News Service
 Pvt. Ltd. (supra), commonly considered by the Courts in applying de
 minimums are: (i) size and type of harm; (ii) cost of adjudication; (iii)
 purpose of the violated legal obligation; (iv) effect on legal rights of third
 parties; and (v) intent of the wrong doer. In Kapil Chopra (supra), the
 Bombay High Court noted that injunction before the release of the film is
 rarely granted as Courts at that time do not have benefit of examining the
 script and in this scenario, if there is a case of plagiarism, writer is left with
 no remedy at all. Writers of the film are not treated with the same dignity
 and respect which they deserve. It was thus prayed that injunction be
 granted directing the Defendants to take the film off all the platforms. 30. I have heard the respective learned Senior counsels for the Plaintiff
 and Defendants No.6 & 7 as well as other counsels for the remaining
 Defendants and examined their rival contentions. 31. The heart of the dispute in the present application lies in the rival
 works: Plaintiff's script 'KNCK' and Defendants' film 'Shamshera'.
 Indisputably, Plaintiff has copyright in the script being the original author
 of the script KNCK. Before proceeding to examine rival claims of the
 parties on merits, it would be crucial to closely look at the judicial
 precedents on the law of copyright, especially in the field of Signature Not Verifiedcinematography, which would also guide and delineate the contours of Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 19 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 judicial scrutiny at this interlocutory stage. In order to succeed at this stage,
 Plaintiff must establish a prima facie case of infringement of the copyright
 albeit with a caveat that Plaintiff need not show that he has chances of
 succeeding at the end of the trial. It is settled that the remedy is
 discretionary and the discretion has to be exercised keeping in mind also
 the remaining two parameters of the three trinity principles i.e. balance of
 convenience and irreparable injury and harm. 32. The complexed question before this Court is whether the Defendants
 have copied the idea and/or the expression of the idea of Plaintiff's work
 substantially in the impugned film, making themselves liable for copyright
 infringement. Idea-expression dichotomy is fundamental to the law of
 copyright and there is a sea of judicial precedence on this. The landmark
 judgment on this dichotomy, as is well known, is by the Supreme Court in
 the case of R.G. Anand (supra). Going back in point of time, the earliest
 formulation of this dichotomy was by the English Court in the case of
 Hollinrake v. Truswell, 1894 Ch. 420, where it was ruled that copyright
 does not extend to ideas or schemes or methods and is confined to their
 expressions and if expression is not copied, copyright is not infringed. Few
 years later in 1954, the US Supreme Court in Mazer v. Stein, 347 U.S. 201,
 218 (1954), reiterated that a copyright is no exclusive right to the art
 disclosed and protection is given only to expression of the idea and not the
 idea itself. In R.G. Anand (supra), the Supreme Court referred to an earlier
 judgment in K.R. Venugopala Sarma v. Sangu Ganesan , 1972 Cri LJ
 1098, which was a case of infringement of copyright in a picture and it was
 held that the degree of resemblance between two pictures, which is to be
 judged by the eye, must be such that the person looking at the
 Respondent's picture gets a suggestion that it is Appellant's work and one Signature Not Verifiedpicture can be said to be copy of another only if substantial part of the Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 20 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 former picture finds place in the reproduction. The Supreme Court then
 observed that an idea, principle, theme, subject matter or historical or
 legendry facts being common property cannot be subject matter of
 copyright. It is always open to any person to choose an idea as a subject
 matter and develop it in his own manner and give expression to the idea by
 treating it differently from others. Significantly, it was also observed that
 where two writers write on the same subject, similarities are bound to occur
 because the central idea of both is the same and similarities or coincidences
 by themselves cannot lead to an irresistible inference of plagiarism or
 piracy. The Supreme Court in R.G. Anand (supra), elucidated the
 following principles on idea-expression dichotomy:- 33. Coming now to some of the provisions of the 1957 Act, Section 13 thereof provides that subject to the said Section and other provisions of the
 said Act, copyright shall subsist throughout India in original, literary,
 dramatic, musical and artistic works, cinematograph films and sound
 recording. 'Work' is defined in Section 2(y) , to include literary, dramatic,
 musical or artistic work, cinematograph film and sound recording. Section
 14 defines copyright to be an exclusive right to do or authorize the doing of
 the acts in respect of a work or any substantial part thereof as provided in
 Clauses (i) to (vii) therein. In Eastern Book Company and Others v. D.B.
 Modak and Another , (2008) 1 SCC 1, the Supreme Court held that the
 word 'original' does not mean that the work must be the expression of
 original or inventive thought. Copyright Acts are not concerned with
 originality of ideas, but with the expression of thought and the 1957 Act
 does not require that the expression must be original or novel, but that the
 work must not be copied from another work i.e. it should originate from the
 author. Relevant paragraphs are as follows:- A wrong result can easily be reached if one begins by dissecting
 the plaintiff's work and asking, could Section A be the subject of
 copyright if it stood by itself, could Section B be protected if it stood by
 itself, and so on. To my mind, it does not follow that, because the
 fragments taken separately would not be copyright, therefore the whole
 cannot be." 34. The law is no longer res integra that to be actionable the copy of the
 Plaintiff's work by the Defendant must be substantial and the surest and
 safest test to determine whether there is a substantial copy is to see if the
 reader, spectator or viewer after having read or seen both the works is
 clearly of the opinion and gets and unmistakeable expression that the
 subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original. Where the theme is
 the same and is presented differently, no question of violation of copyright Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 24 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 arises. In R.G. Anand (supra), the Supreme Court perspicuously observed
 that the Court should determine whether or not similarities are on
 fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the
 copyrighted work. In other words, the copy must be a substantial and
 material one, which at once leads to the conclusion of piracy by the
 Defendant. Earlier, the Judicial Committee in the case of Macmillan &
 Company Limited v. K. and J. Cooper [51 IA 109: AIR 1924 PC 75],
 pointing out the essential ingredients of copyright infringement, observed
 that to constitute piracy of a copyright, it must be shown that the original
 has been either substantially copied or to be so imitated as to be a mere
 evasion of the copyright. This leads to an ancillary but an important
 question on what would be the test of substantial similarity. From the
 conspectus of various judicial pronouncements, it emerges that the test of
 substantial similarity entails comparison of the rival works in their entirety
 and it is not permissible to split or dissect the works into parts. [Ref.: 35. I may first examine the exposition of law in respect of the contention
 of the Plaintiff that Defendant No.5 and later other Defendants had access
 to his script, which be it noted, is admitted by the Defendants today, on a
 factual note. This issue came up before the Bombay High Court in
 Mansoob Haider (supra). Relying on the judgment in R.G. Anand (supra),
 the Bombay High Court observed that there is a singular test for copyright
 infringement and which is that if we remove all scenes to which no
 originality attaches, such as all "scène à faire", then are the two works still
 substantially similar and has the subsequent work copied substantial part of
 the earlier work. The Court carved out three crucial questions/legal tests as
 follows: (a) has the Plaintiff proved that the defendant had access to his
 work? (b) on considering the two works, would an ordinary person
 inevitably conclude that the defendant had copied the plaintiff's work? (the
 subjective or intrinsic test); and (c) is there a substantial and material
 overlapping or commonality of the original elements in the plaintiff's
 work? The Court thereafter held as under:- 36. Therefore, what follows from the above observation is that access
 alone cannot be a ground to come to a conclusion that there is copyright
 infringement and Plaintiff will require to establish substantial similarity
 albeit even if the Plaintiff fails on the question of access, he may succeed if
 substantial similarity is established but the converse cannot be accepted.
 With these principles in the backdrop, I may now proceed to examine the
 case on its facts and the charge of violation and infringement of copyright,
 levelled by the Plaintiff against the Defendants. 37. The trigger of filing the present suit was the release of the trailer of
 the impugned film on YouTube on 24.06.2022, whereafter Plaintiff sent an
 e-mail seeking purview of the film followed by a legal notice on
 06.07.2022, when there was no response. The suit was essentially a qua
 timet action filed prior to the theatrical release scheduled on 22.07.2022.
 Since the suit was filed on the basis of a trailer, the plaint contained limited
 pleadings as well as a comparative of the Plaintiff's work in KNCK and
 Defendants' impugned film. Right was reserved in the plaint to file a
 detailed comparison after viewing the actual film. On 02.08.2022, while the Signature Not Verifiedassurance by the Defendants that they will not release the film on OTT Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 27 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 Platforms was continued, Defendants had undertaken to provide to
 Plaintiff's counsel and the Court a link on which the encrypted version of
 the movie could be viewed. It is an undisputed fact that the impugned
 film was released in the theatres on 22.07.2022, as no injunction was
 granted by the Court. Subsequently, Defendants No. 1, 3, 8 and 9 prayed
 that Defendant No. 1 be permitted to release the film on various OTT
 Platforms as the release was scheduled on 19.08.2022 on the ground that
 failure to do so would amount to breach by the said Defendants of the
 contractual obligations qua third parties and irreparable injury shall be
 caused to Defendant No. 1 while Plaintiff could always be compensated in
 terms of money if he succeeds. Considering the totality of circumstances
 and the fact that the film had been released in theatres, Court permitted
 Defendant No. 1 to release the film on OTT Platforms. However, to
 balance equities, Defendant No. 1 was directed to deposit a sum of Rs.1
 crore with the Registrar General of this Court. This was, needless to state,
 without prejudice to the rights of either party. After the movie was released
 and viewed by the Plaintiff, amended plaint was filed in which a detailed
 comparative was drawn in a tabular form bringing forth the similarities
 between the script of the Plaintiff and the film of the Defendants.
 Defendant No. 1 has also brought forth in the written statement a detailed
 comparative between the script and the film pointing out the similarities
 and the differences. 38. Having carefully perused the script of the Plaintiff and having
 viewed the movie including the detailed comparative tables made by both
 parties on which they have spent considerable labour, I would first give a
 summary of the scripts of the Plaintiff. Be it noted that admittedly the script
 of the Plaintiff has five versions and this too was one of the serious Signature Not Verifiedobjections of the Defendants. Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 28 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 39. Coming to the scripts of the Plaintiff and seen holistically, the theme
 and concept of Plaintiff's work titled KNCK is a tale of valour of the
 Sikh community set in the backdrop of 18th century with a particular
 geographical location i.e. the border of India with Afghan territories. The
 script focusses on a tribute to the community for its role played in
 defending the onslaught of Afghan invaders since the geographical location
 made them the first target of the Afghan invasions. The story draws
 inspiration from the fact that the Sikhs were instrumental in stopping
 repeated Afghan attacks including the Battle of Sialkot in 1763 when the
 Afghan army was defeated and focusses on the role of inhabitants of a
 single village, Noorpur and the lead character Kartar. 40. The script begins with a narrative of the rise of foreign invaders,
 Afghans and Mughals with a focus on the villages of Punjab. An Afghan
 leader, Rashid Khan attempts to take over the villages in Punjab and during
 one such raid, comes across rebellious Guddaan in village Dittopur. When
 Rashid Khan threatens to wipe out the village in the absence of the
 villagers unable to answer his questions, Guddaan insults Rashid Khan in a
 verbal battle. Rashid Khan takes a liking for Guddaan and takes her as a
 prisoner along with other girls from the village. Kartar is a rebellion in
 another village of Punjab, Noorpur, and is trained by the Nihaang army
 from his childhood. The character is portrayed as an ill-tempered, regular
 drinker, with bitterness against his family members i.e., mother,
 grandfather and stepfather and as the plot unfolds, it is revealed that his
 stepfather was the uncle of Kartar who had married his mother after the
 death of his biological father. Kartar always disliked his stepfather while
 the latter lived in the hope that relationships may improve. Kartar has a
 group of friends namely, Ronak, Bhulla, Dhartidhak (a wrestler) and Signature Not VerifiedNihaal, Fazlu (handicapped), Manga (deaf), Rangeela, Mohana, Dharam, Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 29 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 Jaangu (a pro at slingshot) and enjoys playing sports such as wrestling and
 tug of war. Kartar is a strong contender in the sporting events and enjoys a
 dominating/ decision making position amongst his friends, much to the
 dismay of one of his friends Dharam Singh. Kartar and his friends raid the
 Afghan convoy camping at the riverside of Noorpur village and using their
 arms and weapons to secure the supplies of grains, dairy, poultry etc. the
 raids are intentionally conducted in the night to take the Afghans by
 surprise and affect their preparedness for the next day. Afghans including
 Rashid Khan and his brother Dilawar are engaged in revelry on the night of
 rebellion led by Kartar. While camping, Rashid Khan orders Guddaan,
 whom he had taken captive to be sent to his tent. Guddaan is furious and
 ready to kill herself rather than be given to Rashid Khan. Though Rashid
 tries to force himself on her, Guddaan manages to attack him with a dagger
 as he gets distracted due to the commotion outside on account of the raid
 by Kartar and his friends. 41. In the fight that follows, Kartar and his friends slaughter the sleeping
 Afghan soldiers and manage to get hold of the loot and also free the girls
 taken as prisoners including Guddaan. Guddaan is, however, not accepted
 in the village as according to the villagers she was impure after being taken
 captive by the Afghans. Guddaan is infuriated on the allegations and
 insults levelled on her by her relatives. Realising that Guddaan could not be
 abandoned, Kartar's friends disguise her as a boy named, 'Guddu' and take
 her back to their village, Noorpur where she is introduced to everyone
 including Kartar who, impressed by Guddu, takes Guddu under his wing.
 Kartar's family accepts Guddu as a part of the family and Guddu also
 begins to understand Kartar's actions in the light of his past and sees him in
 a new light. 42. Guddu and Kartar become good friends and Guddu's skill in sports
 continues to impress Kartar. Rashid Khan on the other hand continues to
 search for Guddaan and arrives at Noorpur but is unable to find her.
 Meanwhile, mistakenly, Guddu's identity becomes known to Kartar when
 he goes in search of Guddu and chances upon her in the washroom. Kartar
 is furious on his friends for having brought Guddaan back to village as a
 boy but eventually mesmerized by her beauty. Kartar demands that either
 he or Guddaan will stay in the house and eventually, leaves the house in
 anger. Guddaan learns more of Kartar's past from his mother who confides
 in her including how Kartar's father Shamsher died trying to save a
 helpless girl from the clutches of the Afghan singularly. On returning
 home, thoroughly drunk, Kartar takes Guddaan on a horse to return her
 back to her relatives, however, during the journey, he has a change of heart
 when Guddaan convinces him of the blessings he had in the form of his
 family. Kartar inquires about his father from an old guard in Noorpur who
 reminisces about Shamsher as being a great hero contrary to what Kartar
 thought of him. As a changed person for good, Kartar returns to the village
 and changes his way of life and his family is overwhelmed to see this
 change in his personality. Dharam Singh, his friend, is however agitated by
 this change. Kartar and Guddaan fall in love with each other. 43. The next plot is again about Rashid Khan inquiring desperately for
 Guddaan, in furtherance of which he sets up a camp near Noorpur. Dharam
 Singh sees this as an opportunity to attack the Afghans, without the
 authority of Kartar and finally, he and his gang are tortured and killed by
 the Afghans. Dilawar learns about Guddaan's presence in the village and
 attacks the villagers in a heated pursuit for the girls. Kartar and his friends
 come across Dharam and Bheeshan's bodies hanging from poles outside Signature Not Verifiedthe village and realizing the trouble rush to the village to save the girls. Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 31 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 Kartar and his friends overpower Dilawar and his soldiers and tie them to
 the walls of the haveli as a negotiation strategy, should Rashid Khan attack
 the village. Dilawar is beheaded by Kartar in a fit of anger. This triggers a
 battle between Rashid Khan and the villagers and Kartar seeks aid from the
 Nihaang Army. 44. Before the final battle, Kartar reconciles his differences with the
 family. While Afghan soldiers tried to climb a wall to enter the village,
 they find themselves covered in boiling oil and faced stone pelting at the
 hands of Jangu along with other children of the village. Unable to gain
 access to the village, Rashid Khan enters Noorpur from the village
 community well. In the middle of the battle, Rashid Khan tries to negotiate
 with Kartar that the entire village will be spared if he hands over Guddaan,
 which offer is declined. Rashid Khan takes Kartar's father as a hostage,
 who expresses his readiness to die in exchange for Guddaan. Nihaang army
 arrives at the right time and finally the one-to-one combat between Rashid
 Khand and Kartar ends in the death of Rashid Khan. The final battle results
 in the victory of the villagers of Noorpur and the screenplay ends with a
 description of the formation of the courageous Sikh empire under the
 leadership of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. 45. The Defendants' film, on the other hand, is a work of fiction based in
 the 19th century India and the theme is caste division and plight of the
 lower caste communities constantly tortured and harassed by people from
 the higher caste. The caste in question in the Film is titled "KHAMERAN".
 The story begins with a depiction of territorial boundaries that existed in
 Rajputana State during 1570s. The Khameran tribe were known for their
 valour and courage displayed alongside the Rajputs in the battles against
 the Mughals. Despite their best efforts, Rajputs were decimated by the Signature Not VerifiedMughals. The protagonist belongs to the Khameran tribe. Surviving Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 32 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 Khamerans did not have any army or a leader and begged for shelter in
 Kaza, in the northern Province of India now Rajasthan. Shunned away by
 the upper caste, Khamerans lived in the forests surrounding Kaza and
 survived on looting the upper castes. The story depicts the era of 1871when
 the looting activities of Khamerans were at the peak and leadership was in
 the hands of Shamshera, a powerful and good man. Tired of the looting
 activities of the Khamerans, the upper castes approached the British
 commander in Kaza and sought help offering gold as compensation as price
 for the help. Shuddh Singh, Antagonist, who was an Indian police officer
 working under the British, Daroga and belonged to the upper castes offered
 to help. In the battle that pursued, both sides lost equal number of people
 and Shamshera captures a senior British officer. Shuddh Singh pretends to
 offer peace by asking the Khamerans to surrender and stop looting, in
 exchange of which they would get a permanent residence and return to a
 normal life. Shamshera and his tribe of Khamerans agreed to accept and
 surrender and are taken to Kaza Fort. Upon entry, when the gates of the
 Fort are shut, Shamshera realizes his mistake that the offer of settlement
 was only a ploy to get them captive. The enslaved Khamerans are bound by
 metals chains, made to do manual labour and subjected to inhuman
 conditions. Seeing their plight, Shamshera signs a document by which the
 British would allow the Khamerans to escape if they were given double the
 quantity of gold that the upper castes had given them to stop the Khameran
 menace. Shamshera devises a plan to exit and in his pursuit of locating a
 secret tunnel, is wounded by bullets and caught by the British. Before
 leaving, he extracts a promise from his wife to disown him if he is caught.
 Shuddh Singh plays a trick and portrays Shamshera's attempt to escape as
 an act of cowardice "Bhagoda" and exhorts the Khamerans to pelt stones at Signature Not Verifiedhim. To keep the promise given to Shamshera, his wife, in order to protect Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 33 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 herself and their unborn child and the entire tribe, endorses Shuddh Singh's
 version, resulting in Shamshera being killed by his own people. The only
 two persons who know the reality are Pir, Shamshera's trusted friend and
 his wife. 46. From here the story is fast forwarded to 25 years later when Balli,
 son of Shamshera, is a grown man and the character is portrayed as a
 mischievous man with a childlike heart, who trains children to steal small
 possessions of inhabitants of Kaza fort. He is loved and liked by the
 womenfolk and children in Kaza Fort but is condemned by the elders who
 taunt him as 'bhagode ki aulaad'. Balli is troubled by his legacy but dreams
 big of becoming a Police Officer. Pir trains him. Balli makes a fervent but
 unsuccessful attempt to impress Shuddh Singh but when he is beaten up, he
 confronts his mother to reveal his father's credentials. His mother and Pir
 narrate the actual story and the valour and goodness of Balli's father. Upon
 learning the reason and cause of his father's death, Balli makes an identical
 attempt to exit the fort through a tunnel and succeeds to reach the bank of
 the Azaad River. Basis the map given to him by Pir, Balli locates the Kaza
 town and lost companions of Shamshera, who ask Balli to return to earlier
 ways of looting gold in order to free the members of the tribe locked in the
 fort. This is a beginning of a new chapter for Balli. In the meantime, Sona a
 female dancer/entertainer who had met Balli earlier starts aiding him in his
 activities. She is captured by Shuddh Singh but saved by Balli/Shamshera,
 the new name and both get married and have a child. The upper caste
 Indians are troubled and angered by re-emergence of Shamshera and again
 requests Shuddh Singh and the new British commander, Freddie, to
 intervene. Balli accepts a challenge from Freddie for a sporting fight and
 defeats him. Balli tells Freddie to look into the background of Khamerans Signature Not Verifiedto understand what compelled them into looting. Freddie locates the earlier Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 34 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 treaty. Despite heavy security at the event of Shuddh Singh's wedding,
 Balli and his friends loot the gold and jewellery. The group now lies low
 for a while, however, one of the band members betrays them and in the
 attack that follows most of the members of the gang are killed. Sona who
 had just delivered a child is also captured. As the movie proceeds, Balli
 steals the crown of the Queen in his zeal to exchange the same as a price
 for Sona's freedom. Before Freddie could help, in exchange of the crown,
 Shuddh Singh tricks and gets him, and the British soldiers are killed by the
 Indian police, who are under Shuddh Singh's control. During the fight
 between Shuddh Singh and Balli, members of Khameran tribe, who have
 assembled and locked behind the huge fort gates, learnt of the true story of
 valour and sacrifice of Shamshera from Pir and Balli's mother. This
 triggers them to break the shackles of their slavery and the fort gates and
 attack. Shuddh Singh is defeated by Balli and the entire tribe moves out of
 the Kaza fort. 47. The above is a short summary and narrative of the script and the
 film, respectively. Analysing the script of the Plaintiff and the film of the
 Defendants closely on a prima facie view, the Court finds that the KNCK
 script revolves around fights and battles between the Afghans who
 repeatedly made attempts to invade Indian territories and the Sikhs in the
 18th century with the ultimate defeat of Ahmad Shah in 1763. The storyline
 portrays Sikhs as fearless independent people unwilling to compromise on
 the security of their motherland and willing to make any sacrifice for the
 sake of their people. The protagonist is the central character as in any other
 Bollywood film and in addition to the invasions, the theme centres around
 the lady love of the protagonist and the fight and the lust of the antagonist
 to achieve her. Kartar's father is not the central theme of the story albeit Signature Not Verifiedthere are references at some places in the scripts. Looting which is the Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 35 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 centre theme of the film Shamshera is a stray solitary incident in one of the
 scripts and does not flow with the story. Film, on the other hand, is a story
 of oppression of the lower caste at the hands of the upper caste and this
 thread runs in the entire film. From the beginning to the end, the oppression
 of the lower caste is inextricably woven into the story from their being
 outcasted into the desert and finally into the Jungle from the main town and
 the other elements include, being tricked and taken captive in the Kaza
 Fort; looting the upper caste in retaliation and finding a leader to fight the
 upper caste etc. The angle of a love relationship between the main character
 and the lady is not central to the movie. The entire focus is on achieving
 freedom from oppression, be it at the expense of looting gold and giving
 the same in exchange for freedom to the Indian policeman who is the
 central character in oppression and instigating the British. Character of the
 father Shamshera is central to the film and his past legacy is the backdrop.
 The film focusses on relationships between a father and a son spanning
 over a period of 25 years and a realisation by the son of the sacrifice and
 valour of his father whom he all through believed was a coward. The
 treatment meted out to the story of the film, in many ways, makes it
 different from the script. 48. Learned Senior Counsel for the Plaintiff had laboured hard to
 contend that the film was a copy of the script and thus there was copyright
 infringement and in this context, drew the attention of the Court to the
 similarities brought forth in the plaint and other documents in the form of
 photographs as well as lyrics of two songs in the movie. For a ready
 reference, some of the similarities brought forth in the plaint, as an
 illustration, are extracted hereunder:- used as storytelling devices
 for serious scenes. • UNDERWATER SECRET • UNDERWATER SECRET
 TUNNEL IN A WELL: TUNNEL IN A WELL: Yayha Khan's solider dives • Shamshera dives into a well to
 into a well to find an find an underwater secret
 underwater secret tunnel to tunnel to escape from Kaza
 get into a haveli. fort. His son finds that tunnel
 and escapes by swimming out
 through it. • Shamshera's son uses the
 position of the north star to
 navigate his way across the
 landscape. 2) CORE PLOT/STORY: CORE PLOT/STORY: through flashbacks, The father Shamshera's story is
 reminiscence/stories told by explored through flashbacks,
 other characters etc. reminiscence/stories by other
 characters 4) LEAD CHARACTER ARC: LEAD CHARACTER ARC: in which the former kills Rashid • Shuddh Singh drives a dagger
 Khan into Shamshera's son's back. • Rashid Khan drives a dagger
 into a soldier's back and
 Uddham Singh's Back. 5) Shamsher's son is a spitting Shamsher's son and Shamshera
 image of his father - tall, are both played by Ranbir Kapoor
 strapping, bearded, masculine, (tall, strapping, bearded,
 handsome. He is mistaken for masculine, good looking), and
 Shamsher by a night watchman. repeated references are made to
 how Shamshera's son is the new
 Shamshera. critical points as a storytelling critical points as a storytelling
 device: device: 49. From the above comparative, Plaintiff seeks to urge that the
 similarity lies in both works being Period Dramas, underdogs, set in North
 India and centring on oppression with an active protagonist and a legend
 antagonist. Both stories involve revenge, enslavement and span two
 generations of father and son. Commonality lies in use of burning oil, hot
 water, birds, North star to navigate and secret underwater tunnels. The
 antagonists in both according to the Plaintiff are barbaric, foreign invaders
 who pillage and plunder the village while the protagonists fight for
 freedom. Death of the father and son carrying on the legacy is also claimed
 to be a similarity. It is also urged that lead characters are initially bad
 characters who have a change of heart. Defendants have aptly responded to
 the alleged similarities and in my prima facie view, rightly so, by
 contending that there can be no copyright in a story on account of being a
 Period drama. Similarly, there cannot be a copyright protection in Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 44 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 themes/plots/ideas. There are multiple examples of films in the past within
 this genre including the one with which the Plaintiff initially had problem
 i.e. Kesari but had given up the objection fairly on finding the same to be
 substantially different. While the script is on the villages of Punjab and its
 inhabitants, facing oppression by Afghan invaders, the film centres on
 casteism i.e. upper caste oppressing the lower castes and forcing them to
 leave the main town and live in forests. Comparison of locations set in
 North India, as rightly contended by the Defendants, cannot be a ground to
 hold infringement of copyright and similarly features such as burning oil,
 water, birds, star for the purpose of navigation, secret underwater tunnels
 horses, ghaghra and its unswirling, sensuous scenes etc., have been used in
 movies from times immemorial and very many movies come to mind on
 this aspect readily and are hackneyed subjects of almost every fiction and
 matters of common grasp. There is no uniqueness in these ideas or
 expression and in the words of the judgements of this Court, almost every
 author of a fiction would conjure them as consequential concomitant
 effects, as a matter of common grasp and "Scenes a Faire" which carry no
 copyright. 50. Likewise, movies relating to father-son relationships and spanning
 over generations are most common in Bollywood. As rightly contended on
 behalf of the Defendants, character of Shamsher Singh in the script is not
 the theme on which the story revolves, which is really about the resistance
 of Kartar to the invasions of Afghans. He does not carry forward his
 father's legacy though in one of the plots a treaty is signed between the
 British and Shamshera for which Khameran had to pay the price of
 freedom. Character of the father is an important part of the movie, while in
 the script it is not very pronounced or significant. Prima facie, this Court Signature Not Verifiedalso does not find merit in the contention of the Plaintiff that the lead Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 45 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 characters in both are initially shown as bad characters. Defendants rightly
 point out that the character sketch of lead characters is completely different
 in the script and the film. Regardless of whichever one script one peruses,
 Kartar has been shown as a caretaker of the community and village and
 even in the extreme villain avtar, he was concerned about the village girls
 being returned to safety in the village. Balli, on the other hand, in the film
 initially did not care for the tribe since they had condemned him as
 'bhagode ki aulaad' and it was later that he had a change of heart. Balli
 does not lead the rebellion against the British and merely reinitiates the
 looting activity against the upper caste to buy freedom for the Khameran
 tribe. 51. Therefore, to my mind, the dissimilarities between the script and the
 film outweigh the alleged similarities and the similarities by themselves are
 not sufficient to raise a presumption of copyright infringement at this stage
 in favour of the Plaintiff. In R.G. Anand (supra), the Supreme Court has
 held that idea, principle, themes or historical or legendary facts being
 common property cannot be the subject matter of copyright of a particular
 person. It is always open to any person to choose an idea as a subject and
 develop it in his own way giving an expression to the idea by treating it
 differently. Where two writers write on the same subject, similarities are
 bound to occur because the central idea of both is the same and therefore
 similarities or coincidences by themselves cannot lead to an inevitable
 conclusion of piracy or plagiarism. Therefore, the fundamental fact which
 has to be determined by the Court is to see whether the Defendant adopted
 only the idea of the copyrighted work or also the manner, arrangement,
 situation to situation, scene to scene with minor changes. The Supreme
 Court further observed that one of the surest and safest tests to determine Signature Not Verifiedcopyright violation is to see if the reader, spectator or the viewer after Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 46 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an
 unmistakable impression that the subsequent work is the copy of the
 original. However, where the theme is the same but is presented and treated
 differently so that the subsequent work is a new work, violation of
 copyright does not arise. Significantly, the Supreme Court also observed
 that where apart from the similarities in the two works, there are also
 material and broad dissimilarities, which negative the intention to copy, the
 two works are clearly incidental and no infringement comes into existence. 52. In this context, it would be useful to refer to a few passages from the
 judgment of this Court in Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation v. Zee
 Telefilms Ltd. & Ors. , 2012 SCC OnLine Del 3524, as follows:- 53. In Barbara Taylor Bradford (supra), the Division Bench of the
 Calcutta High Court while dealing with two rival plays formulated the
 following questions and answered thus:- 117. Lord Hodson said at page 477:-- 54. In Mansoob Haider (supra), the Bombay High Court once again
 reiterated that in order to succeed in a claim of copyright infringement, the
 Plaintiff must prove that the identity between two works is 'substantial'.
 Relevant paragraphs are as follows:- 55. Relevant would in this regard also to refer to another judgment of the
 Bombay High Court in Urmi Juvekar Chiang (supra), where the Court
 relying on the principles elucidated by the Supreme Court in R.G. Anand (supra), held as follows:- 56. Therefore, tested on the anvil and touchstone of the law laid down in
 the aforementioned judgments, Plaintiff is required to prove substantial
 copying of its work i.e. show that the substance or kernel of Plaintiff's
 work is copied in order to succeed in his claim of copyright infringement.
 In the present case, by a comparison of the rival works, this Court is unable
 to reach a prima facie conclusion at this stage that Defendants have
 substantially copied the script of the Plaintiff to make the impugned film. 57. There is another aspect of the matter. Plaintiff calls upon the Court to
 split and dissect the script and then compare and analyse song by song and
 scene by scene including stock elements and come to a conclusion that
 copying is substantial. It is a settled law that the rival works have to be
 compared as a whole and a single entity. It is not permissible to split or Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 56 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 dissect or compartmentalise the works into parts and then compare them to
 come to a finding of infringement. In this context, I may refer to a passage
 from the judgment in Star India Private Limited (supra), as under:- 58. The judgments relied upon by the Plaintiff, do not inure to his
 advantage. Reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in R.G. Anand (supra), does not further the case of the Plaintiff since the Supreme Court
 has clearly elucidated therein that there is no copyright in ideas and
 copyright can only be claimed in expression of the ideas as also that there
 must be a substantial similarity between the two rival works for the
 Plaintiff to claim copyright infringement. In the present case, as noted
 above, the ideas in the script of the Plaintiff cannot be given copyright
 protection and more so in the stock elements. A comparison of the script
 and the impugned film does not leave an impression that one is a
 substantial copy of the other. For the same reason, judgment in Twentieth
 Century Fox Film Corporation v. Sohail Maklai (supra), does not aid the
 Plaintiff. Reliance was placed on the judgment to argue that even small Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 57 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 portion of a film can constitute copyright infringement as the test is quality
 and not quantity and thus the dissimilarities pointed out by the Defendants
 can be of no avail. The judgment deals with a novel concept in a film
 where a person was held hostage in a phone booth with a sniper, which idea
 had not been expressed in any other film. The Court examined the rival
 works in depth and came to a conclusion that there were substantial
 similarities in the rival works. In fact, in the said judgment , the Court has
 observed that resting on the main theme, what would be the substantial part
 of the copyright is to be seen and therefore the principle of substantial
 similarity was reiterated and not negated albeit there can be no quarrel with
 the proposition that it is the quality and not the quantity of similarity which
 is the benchmark, which the Plaintiff fails to achieve. Relevant paragraphs
 of the judgment are as under:- 59. Reliance was placed on India TV Independent News Service Pvt.
 Ltd. (supra) and Shemaroo Entertainment Limited (supra), in relation to
 the application of the de minimis doctrine to support the argument that even
 the minimum similarity in the two songs in Defendants' film i.e. Ji Huzoor
 and Fitoor with the Plaintiff's script constitutes copyright infringement. De
 minimis non curat lex is a fair use exemption or defence adopted in suits of
 copyright infringement, where copying is trivial or minimal to the Court's
 eyes. To apply this doctrine, it is essential that Defendant admits having
 copied the Plaintiff's work but sets up a defence that he may be allowed to
 continue to use the same as the use is covered by the maxim. In the present
 case, Defendants are disputing the claim of the Plaintiff that there is a copy
 in the film including the songs and the doctrine has no application. It was
 rightly pointed out by the Defendants that it is not the pleaded case of the
 Plaintiff that the two songs are qualitatively the substantial part of
 Plaintiff's work and this becomes pronounced since Plaintiff's work
 comprises of five versions of the script and four out of the five versions do
 not have the description of the song sequence Fitoor. Plaintiff's description
 of the two songs in the script as brought forth by the Plaintiff in a tabular
 form is as follows: space with a blanket of white snow
 till the eyes can see, over which we The moment they reach the high ground, Sona got
 see an aerial shot of Nikdi weaving out of Balli's grip and ran behind a large rock.
 huge red dari. From where the dari Within seconds she emerged looking into a vision.
 end we see Kartar riding a white The kurta she was wearing was now knotted into a
 horse towards Nikdi. He gets down choli. Her bare midriff gleamed in the moonlight as
 from the horse and as he reaches she swung it to the beats of the music. Through an
 Nikdi, a red dari (carpet) erotic dance Sona brought the jewellery she was
 encompasses them and when it wearing to Balli's notice. She raised her hands to
 begins to unfurl, we see Nikdi in reveal the white glove, she flipped her hair to reveal
 Kartar's arms - a suggestion that she the single earring that shone like a star from her ear.
 is unclothed and is covered by an Then she swayed her waist to bring to his attention
 unending red dari. This song will the kamar bandh made of keys and last she put her
 have a sensuous flavour as it portrays foot forward to allow him a better view of the
 Nikdi's desire for Kartar and will anklet. enhance their chemistry. Mesmerised, Balli walked up to her and held her
 face. While she looked deeply into his eyes, he
 placed the second glove on her other hand, made
 her wear the second earring, bent down and put on
 the other anklet and then offered her a ring. With
 tears in her eyes she accepted it. Balli and Sona make love under the starlit night. The song ends with Sona and Balli taking their
 vows in a tribal ceremony in the presence of the
 gang. SONG 2: Ji Hazoor 2. KABHU NA CHHADEIN SHAMSHERA (SCRIPT) song: Ji Hazoor
 KHET (Ghagra dance sequence is not mentioned in
 shamshera's script but is there in the movie)

 Scene begins with the tight close-up PBS 1 - Balli ran like the wild wind, jumping and
 of an Iranian dancer. As we pull leaping over every obstacle with ease. Pir watched
 back, we see her at the center of a him like a hawk. He predicted every move Balli
 huge ghagra, which is held by four was going to make. When he said, "Right foot",
 men. The men swirl the ghagra and Balli put forth his right foot, when he said, Signature Not Verified the waves are created, we see a summersault, Balli would do so in mid air and Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 60 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 glimpse of around 30-40 dancers reach his next target. Everything he said, Balli did
 hidden under the ghagra. We track perfectly. towards Rashid, sitting on a diwan, The angry men spread through the lanes to catch
 holding his drink. He signs for the Balli, but they were no match for him. While Balli
 ghaghra to be lifted up. The four men dashed from one lane to another, his female fans
 lift up the ghagra.... which keeps stood by their windows, awaiting their turn to
 moving up over the Iranian dancer swoon over him. and is then taken away by the men,
 exposing the other dancers. "Purja A caress on the cheek, an enveloping hug, a flower
 Purja kat mare, kabhu na chhadein and a tease were offered to him by the girls.
 khet." Now, thoroughly pampered by the girls and
 completely indulged by the kids, Balli's conceit
 knew no bounds. He danced and played in oblivion
 to the reality that they lived in. Lyrics
 Jo sar kate who wafadar,
 tinka tinka kat mare, (also zara zara kat mare)
 sabhi meri khidmat ko taiyyar. 60. As can be seen the description of first song is only an idea of two
 lovers engaged in a sensuous song sequence in the backdrop of snow and
 wrapped in a red dari. The description being an idea is not protectable and
 as brought forth by the Defendants is common, having been used in
 numerous songs in films like Lamhe, Chandni and other films under Yash
 Raj Films banner. It is also prima facie correct that the Fitoor song has no
 correlation to the theme of the film and has been shot with detailed
 expression on a bigger canvass of a generic love sequence typical of
 Bollywood songs on a plateau with sand, consistent with the topography of
 the place on which the story of the film unfolds. Likewise for the song in
 the film titled Ji Huzoor, the commonality is in use of the ghaghra in the
 dance sequence, but the plots play out differently in the two works. As the
 script unfolds, 30 to 40 dancers are hidden under the ghaghra, which when
 ordered to be lifted by Rashid Khan reveals the hidden dancers, while in
 the film, Balli is thrown up in the air and perches himself at an open
 window of a mud house to flirt with the lady and when pushed off by a Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 61 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 man, catches hold of a piece of clothing which turns out to be a ghaghra
 and helps him to land safely. Upon landing, the children who were playing
 with him hide under the ghaghra and emerge out seconds later. Ghaghras
 have been used historically in several Bollywood songs and in some as the
 centre theme of the song sequence and lyrics and no monopoly can be
 claimed. The song sequence has the protagonist, dancing with children and
 a mischievous tilt, he jumps and latches to the clothing to cushion his fall,
 none of which is in the script. Therefore, what distinguishes the case of the
 Plaintiff from the facts of the judgments relied upon is that the Plaintiff
 claims monopoly in period drama; father-son story where the two look
 alike; use of children, birds, hot oil, horse, underground tunnels and the
 plot based on son's revenge and rebellion against foreign invasions, which
 is common to most Bollywood movies and agreeing with the Plaintiff
 would amount to granting monopoly over ideas, which would be contrary
 to the principles elucidated in R.G. Anand (supra). For the same reason,
 the other judgments relied on do not advance the case of the Plaintiff. Reliance was placed on the judgment in Kapil Chopra (supra) by the
 Plaintiff to argue that a writer should be treated with dignity and should not
 be left remediless. There can be no doubt that writers must be given their
 due. However, Plaintiff has been unable to make out a prima facie case of
 copyright infringement and thus no relief can be granted in favour of the
 Plaintiff injuncting the Defendants from continuing with the telecast of
 their film on the OTT Platforms. 61. Insofar as balance of convenience is concerned, Plaintiff has pleaded
 and admitted awareness of making of the film since May, 2018 and that in
 October, 2020 Defendant No. 6 had reached out to him for the script, yet
 the Plaintiff approached the Court 03 days prior to the release. Applying Signature Not Verifiedthe principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Wander v. Antox Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 483/2022 Page 62 of 63 Signing Date:25.12.2023 18:26:33 (supra), the balance tilts in favour of the Defendants. The third element of
 irreparable harm and injury also goes in favour of the Defendants, who will
 suffer an irretrievable harm if injunction is granted while Plaintiff can
 always be compensated in terms of money, if he finally succeeds. 62. For all the aforesaid reasons, the application is dismissed with the
 usual caveat that observations in the present judgment will not impact the
 trial or the final adjudication of the suit on merits. Defendants shall,
 however, file an affidavit disclosing their up-to-date revenues earned from
 the telecast of the film within 6 weeks from today. 63. Application stands disposed of. CS(COMM) 483/2022 & I.A. 14869/2022 64. List on 16.01.2024 before the Roster Bench, subject to orders of
 Hon'ble the Acting Chief Justice.