1. The petitioner apprehending arrest in the FIR captioned above has come up
before this Court under Section 438 CrPC seeking anticipatory bail. 2. In paragraph 28 of the bail petition, the accused declares that he has no
criminal antecedents. 3. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner contends that the custodial investigation
would serve no purpose whatsoever, and the pre-trial incarceration would cause
an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. 4. It is appropriate to refer to the relevant portions of the bail petition, which
read as follows: 5. Ld. counsel representing the State opposes bail. The contention on behalf
of the complainant is that the petitioner as well as Lalit Rawat or may be some of
their accomplices have defrauded the company and they are not entitled to any
bail. REASONING: 6. There are specific allegations against the petitioner that he had personally
gone to take delivery of 7-8 vehicles from M/s Goyal Auto Enterprises. Thus,
there is an eyewitness's account of the delivery of the motorcycles, which were
sold on fake documents. If the loans had been sanctioned to genuine persons,
then there was no reason for the petitioner to personally visit to the showroom
and getting the delivery of the vehicles. 7. The argument raised on behalf of the petitioner that it is Lalit Rawat who
is the main accused and the investigator has given him clean chit, is premature.
The investigation is going on and role of Lalit Rawat is yet to be ascertained.
Therefore, on this ground also, petitioner fails to make out a case. 8. An analysis of the allegations and evidence collected does not warrant the
grant of bail to the petitioner. 9. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v State of Punjab , 1980 (2) SCC 565, (Para 30), a
Constitutional Bench of Supreme Court held that the bail decision must enter the
cumulative effect of the variety of circumstances justifying the grant or refusal of
bail. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav , 2005 (2) SCC 42,
(Para 18) a three-member Bench of Supreme Court held that the persons
accused of non-bailable offences are entitled to bail if the Court concerned
concludes that the prosecution has failed to establish a prima facie case against
him, or despite the existence of a prima facie case, the Court records reasons for
its satisfaction for the need to release such person on bail, in the given fact
situations. The rejection of bail does not preclude filing a subsequent application.
The courts can release on bail, provided the circumstances then prevailing
requires, and a change in the fact situation. In State of Rajasthan v Balchand , AIR

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 19-05-2022 05:45:49 ::: CRM-M-19959-2022 4 1977 SC 2447, (Para 2 & 3), Supreme Court noticeably illustrated that the basic
rule might perhaps be tersely put as bail, not jail, except where there are
circumstances suggestive of fleeing from justice or thwarting the course of justice
or creating other troubles in the shape of repeating offences or intimidating
witnesses and the like by the petitioner who seeks enlargement on bail from the
Court. It is true that the gravity of the offence involved is likely to induce the
petitioner to avoid the course of justice and must weigh when considering the
question of jail. So also, the heinousness of the crime. In Gudikanti Narasimhulu
v Public Prosecutor , (1978) 1 SCC 240, (Para 16), Supreme Court held that the
delicate light of the law favors release unless countered by the negative criteria
necessitating that course. In Prahlad Singh Bhati v NCT, Delhi , (2001) 4 SCC 280,
Supreme Court highlighted one of the factors for bail to be the public or the
State's immense interest and similar other considerations. In Dataram Singh v
State of Uttar Pradesh , (2018) 3 SCC 22, (Para 6), Supreme Court held that the
grant or refusal of bail is entirely within the discretion of the judge hearing the
matter and though that discretion is unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously,
compassionately, and in a humane manner. Also, conditions for the grant of bail
ought not to be so strict as to be incapable of compliance, thereby making the
grant of bail illusory. 10. In the light of ratio of the judicial precedents mentioned above, the
petitioner's case does not fall in the category of cases where bail ought to be
granted. 11. In Jai Prakash Singh v. State of Bihar , (2012) 4 SCC 379, Hon'ble Supreme
Court holds,
 [19]. Parameters for grant of anticipatory bail in a serious
 offence are required to be satisfied and further while granting
 such relief, the court must record the reasons therefor.
 Anticipatory bail can be granted only in exceptional
 circumstances where the court is prima facie of the view that
 the applicant has falsely been enroped in the crime and would
 not misuse his liberty. [See D.K. Ganesh Babu v. P.T. Manokaran ( 2007) 4 SCC 434, State of Maharashtra v. Mohd. Sajid Husain
 Mohd. S. Husain ( 2008) 1 SCC 213 and Union of India v. Padam
 Narain Aggarwal (2008) 13 SCC 305]. 12. In State rep. by CBI v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187, Hon'ble Supreme
Court holds,
 [6]. We find force in the submission of the CBI that custodial
 interrogation is qualitatively more elicitation oriented than

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 19-05-2022 05:45:49 ::: CRM-M-19959-2022 5 questioning a suspect who is well ensconded with a favourable
 order under Section 438 of the code. In a case like this effective
 interrogation of suspected person is of tremendous advantage
 in disinterring many useful informations and also materials
 which would have been concealed. Succession such
 interrogation would elude if the suspected person knows that
 he is well protected and insulted by a pre-arrest bail during the
 time he interrogated. Very often interrogation in such a
 condition would reduce to a mere ritual. The argument that the
 custodial interrogation is fraught with the danger of the person
 being subjected to third degree methods need not be
 countenanced, for, such an argument can be advanced by all
 accused in all criminal cases. The court has to presume that
 responsible Police Officers would conduct themselves in task of
 disinterring offences would not conduct themselves as
 offenders. 13. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances
peculiar to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner fails to
make a case for bail at this stage. 14. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on
the merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. Petition dismissed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, shall stand
disposed of.