This petition is filed by the petitioner-accused No.10

under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. seeking his release on bail of

the offences punishable under Section 120-B read with Sections 409 , 420 , 434 , 447 , 468 and 471 of IPC registered

in respondent in R.C. No.15(A)/2012 (CBI/ACB/Bangalore)

and pending in Spl. C.C. No.135/2013. 2. Brief facts of the case of the petitioner as pleaded in

the petition is that he has been arrayed as accused No.10 in

the supplementary charge sheet dated 20.12.2013 filed in

Special C.C. No.135/2013 pending before XLVI Additional

City Civil and Sessions Judge and Special Judge for CBI

Cases at Bangalore. The petitioner was not arrayed as an 3 accused in FIR. As stated above, he was arrayed as accused

No.10 in the supplementary charge sheet and he is alleged of

having committed the offences under Section 120-B read

with Sections 409 , 420 , 434 , 447 , 468 and 471 of IPC. 3. The petitioner was taken into custody by the

complainant on 17.10.2013. He was remanded to police

custody from 17.10.2013 to 26.10.2013. On completion of

investigation and enquiry of the petitioner, the complainant

requested the trial court to remand the petitioner to judicial

custody. The trial court remanded the petitioner to judicial

custody on 26.10.2013 and he has been in judicial custody

ever since. The petitioner moved the trial court to enlarge

him on bail vide his bail application dated 17.10.2013. The

said application was heard by the trial court and the same

was rejected vide order dated 24.4.2014 without any rhyme

or reason. The petitioner being left with no other alternative,

has preferred the instant petition seeking his release on bail. 4. I have heard the learned Senior Counsel appearing

for the petitioner-accused No.10 and the learned Special 4 Public Prosecutor and Senior Counsel appearing for the

respondent-CBI. 5. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner, during

the course of the arguments, submitted that petitioner-

accused No.10 is the partner of M/s. S.B. Minerals and also

proprietor of M/s. Vaishnavi Minerals. He made the

submission that on 27.5.2013, charge sheet was filed

against six accused persons. At the initial stage, there were

no allegations in the complaint as against the petitioner-

accused No.10 nor FIR was registered against him. On the

contrary, the prosecution has cited the petitioner-accused

No.10 as a charge sheet witness No.195. He also submitted

that another charge sheet filed was against accused Nos.7

and 8 and on 20.12.2013, third report was filed by the

prosecution. He submitted that petitioner-accused No.10

applied for anticipatory bail, but the same was rejected. On

17.10.2013, the petitioner has been arrested and from

17.10.2013 till 26.10.2013, he was in police custody. The

learned Senior Counsel further made the submission that

M/s. S.B. Minerals is the lessee of the Government. 5 Petitioner is a sitting MLA and the uncle of the petitioner was

looking after the business. He made the further submission

that except the offences under the Indian Penal Code , the

other offences under the other Acts are given up by the

prosecution. The offences alleged are not punishable with

death or imprisonment for life and they are all triable by the

Magistrate Court. The petitioner has surrendered his

passport before the Special Judge. Therefore, there is no

apprehension for the respondent that the petitioner may go

abroad and not available for the trial of the case. The

learned Senior Counsel further made the submission that

there are 370 witnesses in the case and voluminous

documents are produced. Trial is also not yet commenced

and it may take long time to conclude the trial after its

commencement. Hence, he made the submission that by

imposing reasonable conditions, the petitioner may be

enlarged on bail. In support of his contention, the learned

Senior Counsel has relied on the following decisions: The respondent CBI registered the case. The learned SPP

made the submission that looking to the charge sheet

materials, there is a prima facie material placed by the

respondent CBI about the involvement of the present

petitioner in the commission of the alleged offence. In this

connection, he drew the attention of this Court to page

No.136 of the charge sheet materials and made the

submission that the allegations in the said charge sheet 7 clearly go to show that the present petitioner along with

accused Nos.11 to 21 were the parties to the criminal

conspiracy entered into themselves at Bellary and other

places during the period from 1.1.2009 to 31.5.2010 and in

furtherance of the said criminal conspiracy, they have

excavated the iron ore illegally from various mines/forest

areas in Bellary district and surrounding areas and sold the

same to various traders and transported the said iron ore

illegally to Belekere port for export purposes and thereby, the

present petitioner has also committed the alleged offences.

He also drew the attention of this Court to para Nos.12

and/to 18 of the charge sheet and submitted that these

materials go to show that the present petitioner has

committed the alleged offences. He further submitted that

the statement of witnesses recorded by the investigating

officer during investigation and the documents seized during

investigation will make out prima facie case against the

petitioner and hence, he is not entitled to be released on bail.

In support of his contention, the learned SPP and Senior

Counsel has relied upon the following decisions as per the

memo dated 25.7.2014: On going through the said returns, the following is observed

with regard to production and dispatch of iron ore during the

said period: Vyshnavi Minerals and the same was to be loaded from mine

plot of M/s. S.B. Minerals at Vyasanakere village only after

making payment in cash to Shivakumar of M/s. Vyshnavi

Minerals. In the present case also, he did not receive any

invoice from M. Shivakumar for the materials sold to him

and loaded from M/s. S.B. Minerals, Vyasanakere plot. He

has further stated that after receipt of cash amount handed

over by him to Shivakumar of M/s. Vyshnavi Minerals, the

iron ore quantity 3,947.48 MT was transported by M/s. S.B.

Logistics Transporter Contractor, Hospet and M/s. B.K.

Enterprises Bellary from M/s. S.B. Minerals, Vyasanakere

plot to Belekeri Port during the period from 17.4.2010 to

24.4.2010. In his further statement, dated 14.12.2013, he

has also stated that when the sale/purchase transaction

took place, Sri. Shivakumar of M/s. Vyshnavi Minerals

informed that the sale invoices will be given after completion

of transportation of sale of above said iron ore quantity.

However, M/s. Vyshnavi Minerals / M/s. S.B Minerals did

not issue them sale invoices after completion of transaction

as agreed even after repeated request made by him. 14 13. Witness No.298 one Sri. Ramesh Ramswami, is

the Manager of M/s. Shakthi Priya Enterprises. In his

statement, Ramesh Ramswami has stated that the iron ore

quantity of 1,31,374.520 MTs sold to M/s. S.B. Logistics was

purchased by M/s. Shakthi Priya Enterprises from

Sudhakar Rao, Proprietor, M/s. Kiran Enterprises, Koppal

Taluk and District. The total quantity of 1,31,374.520 MTs

of iron ore sold to M/s. S.B. Logistics was loaded from

stockyard of M/s. Kiran Enterprises (MRK Plot), situated at

Sy. No.107 Bevinahalli village belonging to Sri. Sudhakar

Rao. All the payments was made to Sudhakar Rao in cash

towards purchase of the said material. The amount received

is Rs.36,39,86,450/-. They had gone to Sri. Shivakumar in

the office of M/s. Vyshnavi Minerals for about 30-35 times

and handed over approximate amount of R.20-25 crores for

the purchase of iron ore. They had gone to late Srinivas

Singh, Partner of M/s. S.B Minerals, Vyasanakare at his

residential premises, Hospet for about 15-20 times and

handed over approximate amount of Rs.7.00 crores for the

purchase of iron ore. After receipt of cash amount handed

over by him to the above said persons, the iron ore quantity 15 1.31 lakh MT. was transported by M/s. Saptagiri Logistics

from M/s. S.B. Minerals, Vyasanakare Mines plot to M/s.

Kiran Enterprises stockyard situated at Bevinahalli village.

The said quantity of iron ore was sold to M/s. S.B. Logistics

by him and the same was transported from M/s. Kiran

Enterprises stockyard to Belekeri port by M/s. S.B. Logistics

transport company. The said quantity of iron i.e.,

1,31,374.520 MT sold to M/s. S.B. Logistic was purchased

by M/s. Shakthi Priya Enterprises from Sri. Shivakumar,

Manager of M/s. Vyshnavi Minerals through Sudhakar

Rao/Srinivas Singh/Anand Singh. When the sale/purchase

transaction took place, Sri Shivakumar of M/s. Vyshnavi

Minerals informed him that the sale invoices will be given

after completion of transportation of the sale of above said

quantity of iron ore. However, M/s. Vyshnavi Minerals /

M/s. S.B. Minerals did not issue them sale invoices after

completion of transportation as agreed even after repeated

requests made by him. 14. Witness No.90 one Sri. T.V. Srinivasan, Assistant

Conservator of Forest, in his statement has stated that in all 16 the stockyards, the iron ore used to bring and stored from

various mines. The illegal transportation of iron ore to

Belekeri port was rampant during the said period from V.

Nagappa stockyard, Danapura stockyard, Swastik Nagaraj

stockyard, Veeyem stockyard, LMC stockyard, SBM P.K.

Halli stockyard and SVK Mine stockyard Vyasankare without

any permits on zero basis. There was a common code "zero"

for the transportation of iron ore without valid permits

during the said period. The transportation of iron ore on

zero basis from the stockyard was carried out by Sri.

Alikhan, Swastik Nagaraj and K. Mahesh, close associates of

Sri. Janardhana Reddy during the said period. He has

further stated that he had also forwarded mine proposal of

M/s. S.B. Minerals during his tenure as in-charge Deputy

Conservator of Forests on the direction of Sri. Anand Singh

who was Hospet MLA. 15. Witness No.206 one H.S. Sathyanarayana RFO,

Tiptur Range gave his statement before the 17th ACMM

Court AT Bangalore on 1.4.2013. So far as the present

petitioner is concerned, he has stated one Anand Singh the 17 MLA who was also the owner of SVK Mines, his P.A. Srinivas

and Joshi made a phone call to him and said that he should

not check anything about those mines and about an illegal

transportation and told him that it is all being sent to

Janardhana Reddy and therefore, he should not question

him. 16. Witness No.209 one Sri. S. Muthaiah, Conservator

of Forest gave his statement before the 17th ACMM Court

Bangalore wherein he has stated that in Hospet Range, there

is M/s. S.B. Minerals owned by Anand Singh MLA and

Tourism Minister. He has given transportation contract to

Nagendra, MLA of Kudlugi. Nagendra has transported the

iron ore without valid permit of mines and Geology and

Forest Department and transported the 'zero' materials from

Bellary to Karwar and Bellary to Mangalore and those two

persons were personally liable for the transportation of iron

ore without permits on the directions of Janardhana Reddy.

The amount derived from this illegal transportation was

shared between those three persons by giving 25% to

Janardhana Reddy and the remaining 75% to Anand Singh 18 and Negendra. He has also stated that Anand Singh

transported iron ores from the surrendered area of LMC

without valid permits to Bellary to Karwar and Bellary to

Mangalore. 17. Witness No.210 one Sri. Mahesh A. Patil, RFO

(u/s) gave his statement before the 17th ACMM Court,

Bangalore wherein he has also stated that one Anand singh

MLA of Hospet used to pressurize him of MLC mines. He

along with MLC mines owner and Janardhan Reddy did

illegal mining in the surrendered areas. 18. I have perused the decision relied upon by the

learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner-accused

No.10 in Sanjay Chandra 's case, wherein their Lordships of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down the propositions as

under: Competing factors to be balanced by court while
exercising its discretion - Protection of personal
liberty against securing attendance of accused at
trial- Presumed innocence till a person is
convicted - Hardship caused to individual on
account of detention before conviction - Unnecessary burden on State to keep a person
who is yet to be proved guilty - Constitutionally
protected liberty, held, must be respected unless
detention becomes a necessity - Bail is the rule
and jail an exception - Each case however to be
decided on its own merits - Apprehended
tampering of evidence - Denial of bail on this
count - Held, to be resorted to in most
extraordinary circumstances only - Lengthy trial
which may prolong beyond maximum sentence
awardable under relevant law - Relevance of - 2G Spectrum Scam case- Charge-sheet already
filed - Telecom licences under Unified Access
Services (UAS) policy and radio spectrum alleged
to have been obtained by indulging in cheating
and forgery - Eligibility criteria manipulated _
Public exchequer alleged to have suffered huge
loss - Appellants charged for various economic 20 offences under prevention of Corruption Act,
1988 and IPC - Seventeen persons booked for
scam - Statement of witnesses running into
several hundred pages - Other documentary
evidence also too voluminous - Trial in these
circumstances likely to take considerable time -
Longest sentence that can be imposed is seven
years' imprisonment under 1988 Act No serious
apprehension raised before Supreme Court that
accused persons, if released on bail, would
interfere with trial or tamper evidence. - Balanced approach, held, is to grant bail
subject to certain conditions, rather than to
keep individuals under detention for an
indefinite period - Liberty also given to CBI to
seek cancellation/modification of bail if
appellants violate conditions imposed on them - Trial court and high Court, further held , erred
in denying bail solely by taking into account
seriousness of offences, deep-rooted conspiracy
involved and loss of public money, overlooking
other relevant aspects - Prevention of corruption
Act, 1988 - S.13 - Penal code, 1860 - Ss.415,
420, 109, 120-B, 463, 464, 468 and 471 - Telecommunications Laws - Telecom services -
Licence and spectrum obtained fraudulently
Criminal liability 21 B. Criminal Procedure Code , 1973 - Ss. 437 and
 439 - Prejudices which may be avoided in
 deciding bail matters - Public scams, scandals
 and heinous offences - Public sentiments and
 disapproval of alleged misconduct - Bail, held,
 ought not to be denied to teach lesson to a
 person whose offence is yet to be proved - Conditional bail, as a solution. In para No.38 of the aforesaid judgment, The Hon'ble

Supreme Court has observed as under: 19. In the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

rendered in Crl. Appeal No.1685/2014 arising out of SLP

(Criminal) 2814/2014 in the matter of Narendra G.

Hittalamakki Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation , the

Hon'ble Supreme Court has passed the order to the following

effect: 20. I have further perused decision rendered in N.

Vishwanathan Vs. State by Central Bureau of Investigation reported in MANU/KA/1743/2013 rendered by this Court

Crl.P. No.4597/2013 and also the order dated 6.8.2014

passed by the 46th Additional City Civil and Special Judge in

Spl. Case No.116/2012. 21. I have perused the decision relied upon the

learned SPP for respondent-CBI in Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy

Vs. CBI reported in (2013)3 SCC (Cri) 552. In para Nos.34

and 36 of the said decision , the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

observed as under: 22. In Dipak Subhashchandra Mehta's case reported

in (2012)4 SCC 134, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as

under: 23. I have perused the other decisions relied upon by

the learned SPP produced along with the list which are

referred above. 24. It is the contention of the learned Senior Counsel

appearing for the petitioner-accused No.10 that now the

investigation of the case is completed and the charge sheet

has been filed. There are 370 witnesses in the case and

voluminous documents have been collected during

investigation. The learned Senior Counsel has also

contended that the matter may take long time to conclude

the trial and the other accused persons have also been

released on bail. Perusal of the decision in Sanjay Chandra's

Case (supra), it is observed by their Lordships that each case

however is to be decided on its own merits. Therefore,

looking to this observation of the Hon'ble Supreme Court,

the Court has to see as to what are the materials collected as 29 against the present petitioner and the other factors which

are referred above as per the judgment of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court. Based on those materials and factors, the

Court has to find out as to whether it is a case for grant of

bail in favour of petitioner accused. I have made a reference

to the statement of witnesses recorded by the investigating

officer during investigation, the relevant portion of their

statement is culled out in this order. Looking to the said

statement of witnesses, it prima facie goes to show that there

was illegal extraction of the iron ore and illegal

transportation of the iron ore in excess of the quantity for

which the permission was given. The material also goes to

show that iron ore was sold without raising the invoices.

The witnesses have already stated that the present petitioner

has sold the iron ore stating that the invoices will be issued

later and even then, no such invoices were issued. The

statement of witnesses further makes it clear that the

present petitioner who is the MLA has even threatened the

concerned forest officers and pressurised them that he is

transporting iron ore for and on behalf of accused No.1 and

asked them not to check the vehicles carrying on the iron

ore. So the statement of witnesses establishes that even

there was pressure and threat by the present petitioner on 30 the forest officers for transporting the iron ore illegally.

Therefore, it supports the contention of the respondent-CBI

that even if the petitioner is released on bail, he is going to

influences the witnesses and will tamper the witnesses.

Therefore, looking to all these materials collected by the

investigating officer during investigation, they prima facie

establish involvement of the petitioner in the commission of

the alleged offences and the materials also establish that

there is an illegal extraction of the iron ore and illegal

transportation of the iron ore without following the due

procedures and without getting the required permits as per

the law and thereby, there is a loss to the State exchequer in

crores of rupees. In view of the discussions made above, I

am of the opinion that the ground of parity is not made

applicable to the petitioner and he is not entitled to be

granted with bail. Accordingly, the petition is rejected. Sd/- JUDGE

Cs/-