1. List revised. 2. Heard Sri Shashank Dwivedi, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Bade Lal Bind, learned counsel for the State and perused the material on record. 3. This bail application under Section 483 of BNSS has been filed by the applicant- Anuj, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No.177 of 2025, u/s 376, 506 IPC and 67 A I.T. Act , P.S. Kotwali City, District Bijnor. 4. The FIR of the matter was lodged on 2.3.2025 by Santram Singh against the applicant alleging therein that his daughter is aged about 28 years and studied in college in the year 2018. The applicant used to often visit the said college. On 9.7.2018, the applicant told his daughter that he is going to village and on believing the same his daughter accompanied with him on a motorcycle. The applicant took his daughter to a lonely place, committed rape upon her and recorded nude video of her. By showing the said nude video, the applicant threatened his daughter and by blackmailing her, he committed rape upon his daughter since last 4-5 years. When the marriage of his daughter was fixed with someone on 18.4.2025, the applicant then sent her nude video to the boy with whom marriage was settled and due to the same he refused marriage. A report be lodged and action be taken. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that the applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case. It is argued that the allegation of sending the video to the boy with whom the marriage of the daughter of the informant was fixed is false. The victim is a major girl. The marriage of the applicant was settled with the victim but she was not interested in marriage. It has also been pointed out that the applicant is not having any criminal history as stated in para 17 of the affidavit and is in jail since 2.3.2025. 6. Per contra learned counsel for the State vehemently opposed the prayer for bail and argued that the applicant committed rape upon the victim by misrepresenting her and recorded her nude video and by blackmailing her, continued to commit rape upon her. He even sent the said video to the boy with whom her marriage was settled due to which the said marriage broken, as such bail application of the applicant be rejected. 7. After hearing the counsel for the parties and perusing the record, it is evident that the applicant is named in the FIR. The allegation against the applicant is that he committed rape upon the victim and recorded nude video of her. The applicant also committed rape upon the victim for about 4-5 years by blackmailing her. The applicant also sent the nude video of the victim to the boy with whom her marriage was settled. 8. Looking to the facts and circumstances of the case, I do not find it a fit case for bail, hence, the bail application is rejected. (Samit Gopal, J.)
 
Order Date :- 4.7.2025
 
Gaurav Kuls