This Writ Petition has been filed for a direction to the
respondents herein to provisionally assess and clear the consignment comprising
of 104 units of old and used secondhand Digital Multifunction Print and Copying
Machines and 10 units of old and used secondhand photocopying machines
(henceforth called as 'imported goods') covered by Bill of Entry No.3394138
dated 03.05.2011 without insisting for a licence for its import in terms of the
Foreign Trade Policy read with Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Rules,
upon the petitioner paying the applicable duties of customs of the enhanced
value as determined by the chartered engineer. 2.	The facts of the case, in a nutshell, are as follows:- 03.05.2011 with the assessment group concerned at the Tuticorin Custom House and
sought the clearance of the same. b) 	Even though a Bill of entry was filed by the petitioner herein
for the clearance of the impugned goods as early as on 03.05.2011, the
respondents have not assessed the subject bills of entry. Added further, a
Chartered Engineer, by name Er. P.Senthoor Pandian, Tuticorin, having examined
the goods and had given his report dated 09.05.2011, confirming to the
description of the goods as found in the invoice filed by the petitioner herein
and valuing the goods marginally higher than the one declared by the petitioner
herein, corroborating the correctness of the declaration made by the petitioner
before the customs no diligent steps were initiated by the respondents herein to
assess and clear the goods at an early date in terms of the provisions contained
in the Customs Act , and the regulations made thereunder, overlooking the
circular no.42/2001 issued by CBEC, New Delhi, providing for speedy clearance of
goods imported.	3 c) In the mean time, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, the 3rd
respondent herein, took up investigation in the matter against the petitioner
concerned, concerning the import of subject goods. He was also summoned by the
Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, (in short'DRI') and a statement under Section 108 of the Customs Act was recorded from him, which was exculpatory in
nature. While so, the third respondent arranged for an invoice of higher a
value, for which, the petitioner sent a notice through his Advocate reiterating
the facts about the genuineness of the import of the subject goods and that
there is no attempt of any mis-declaration or undervaluation whatsoever on his
part concerning the import of the impugned goods. Since the petitioner did not
accept the proposals made by the 3rd respondent, he was driven from pillar to
post and made to suffer immensely by the respondents by not assessing the
subject goods and to permit clearance of the goods even after the chartered
engineer has examined the goods and given his report to the department. The
petitioner contends that once the chartered engineer report has been obtained,
there cannot be any impediment for the respondent department to get the goods
assessed and cleared on payment of appropriate duty. But, the same has not been
done by the respondent department for certain extraneous and irrelevant
considerations. d) The petitioner further submits that the import of the second hand
photocopiers and also secondhand digital multifunction print & copying machines
are being permitted through the Tuticorin, Chennai, as well as the other ports
for the last two decades. He further submits that from December 2006, the Customs Tariff Act was amended in terms of which a new subheading bearing no.
No.8441 3100 was inserted / introduced for the digital multifunction print and
copying machines, while the photocopier machines were shifted and introduced
under CTH No.8443 3930 of the said Tariff Act from erstwhile Tariff heading of
90091200. Thus, the classification of the two goods in question in terms of the Customs Tariff Act itself recognized them to be quite distinct and different. He
further submits that the Foreign Trade policy also recognized the position by
adopting the different classifications for the above two machines in question in
the ITC classifications of Export and Import Items by the DGFT, Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, Department of Commerce. e) Prior to the separate classification of the digital multifunction
printing and copying machines, dispute was raised with regard to the free
importability of the old and used second hand Dig photo-copier being imported
through all the ports in India including the port at Chennai on the ground that
these goods cannot be treated to be capital goods within the meaning of the
import Export policy. The issued in question was taken before the Hon'ble Apex
Court by the Customs Department was decided in favour of the importers by the
Apex Court holding that the said goods are capital goods and are therefore
freely importable into India by confirming the decision of the Hon'ble Larger
Bench of the Tribunal. The Ministry of Commerce pursuant to the said judgment of
the Hon'ble Apex Court while accepting that these goods are second hand capital
goods, however, imposed a restriction on the import of the old and used second
hand photocopiers alone by issue of a notification bearing no 31/2005 RE dt.
19.10.2005 by amending para 2.17 of the Foreign trade policy. f).Since the second hand digital multifunction print and copying
machines came to be classified differently and as the nature of the machines
were also quite distinct and different from a photocopier, the petitioner herein
as well as other similarly placed importers contested the claim of the Customs
that the said goods being similar to a photocopier would also attract the
restriction under para 2.17 of the Policy. Since the authorities did not allow
the clearance of the subject goods without adjudging the fine and penalty,
holding that these machines are restricted for import, the petitioner as well as
others were forced to approach this Court seeking release of the goods without
insisting for the said licence. The order directing the release of the goods by
making some deposit was challenged by the Revenue Department before the Hon'ble
Division Bench of this Court, which directed the release of the goods on payment
of the applicable duties on the enhanced value and cash deposit of 25% of the
said enhanced value. The said judgment was followed in several writ petitions
filed for the release of such goods. It is also submitted that the same
condition was imposed even for release of secondhand photocopier machines by
this Hon'ble Court consequent to one of the importer challenging the
jurisdiction of the Director General of Foreign Trade to issue the notification
restricting the import of the said goods, which order was also confirmed by the
Hon'ble First Court on an appeal by the revenue, which order has become final as
no appeal against the said order has been preferred. Against the order of
learned single Judge, it went on appeal, which also got dismissed by the Hon'ble
First Bench of the Madras High Court in W.A.Nos.l 190 to 1194 of 2011 with a
specific direction to release the goods. The said respondent had accordingly
released the goods with a detention certificate as agreed to by him in the
contempt proceedings. The Division Bench of Customs, Excise & Service Tax
Appellate Tribunal, South Zonal Bench at Bangalore, had recently passed final
order Nos.405 to 416 of 2011 dated 29.06.11, holding that the action of the
Customs authorities in confiscating the goods viz. old and used digital
multifunction print and copying machines under Sec.111(d) of the Customs Act for
non-production of a licence under para 2.17 of the policy is contrary to law and
accordingly set aside such confiscation while holding that the "digital
multifunction print and copier machines" cannot be termed as photocopiers to
attract the bar of para 2.17 of the FTP. The petitioner accordingly submits that
the disputed controversy has now been put to an end by the Apex body under the Customs Act , and it is reliably learnt that the operation of the said order has
not so far been stayed or annulled by any higher appellate court. g). The action of the respondents in not assessing and permitting
the clearance of the subject goods of the petitioner for over seven months is
highly arbitrary and beyond all reasonableness, causing undue financial hardship
to them in the form of mounting demurrage and container detention charges
besides causing loss of business, which is quite unnatural and an arbitrary
action, which should not be allowed to sustain and it is quite contrary and
defying the instructions issued by the Central Board of Excise & Customs, New
Delhi in their Circular bearing No.42/2001-Cus dated 31.07.2001, which requires
speedy clearance of the imported goods in order to avoid payment of detention
and demurrage charges. The respondents have also failed to understand that the
goods under import is not in the category of prohibited goods and therefore,
there cannot be any impediment for the respondents to proceed with assessment
and clearance of goods. The respondents have not realized their responsibilities
as a quasi judicial public authority to expedite action in the speedy clearance
of the goods imported by the petitioner, at least on a provisional basis in
terms of section 18 of the Customs Act, following the instructions laid down in
Circular no.42/2001-Cus dt.31.07.2001 by the Govt, of India, Ministry of
Finance, (Dept. of Revenue), Central Board of Excise & Customs, New Delhi, if
they have any reservations in this matter. h). There are no justifiable reasons attributed by the department
for non-assessment of the subject goods and permit clearance thereof, inspite of
the fact that the very same respondent have|permitted clearance of the subject
goods, pursuant to the orders of the Hon'ble High Court of Madras at Madurai
Bench in W.P(MD).No.1344/2011 dated 30.09.2011 W.P(MD).Nos.11503, 11510, 11608
of 2011 dated 19.10.2011 permitting clearance of the subject goods on the
petitioner depositing 25% on the enhanced value apart from the actual duties
payable on the enhanced value and also by executing a personal bond for the
remaining differential duty with liberty to the respondents to proceed with
adjudication in accordance with law. The petitioner further submits that inspite
of the orders of this Court, wherein the 1st and 2nd respondents herein were
also a party to the proceedings therein, the respondents have not made any
attempt to proceed further with the assessment and clearance of the subject
consignment of the petitioner, inspite of the fact that there is no objection
whatsoever recorded by the officials, coupled with the fact that the chartered
engineer has inspected and given his report nothing objectionable, except for a
marginal increase in the declared value, which was also accepted by the
petitioner herein without prejudice to his rights to proceed in a manner known
to law. i). The apprehension of the petitioner is not unfounded for the
reasons that even provisional assessment and release of goods sought was not
considered inspite of the existence of the instructions of the Central Board of
Excise & Customs, New Delhi which are squarely binding on the respondents
herein, and the goods are simply lying at the container freight station, with
mounting demurrage and container detention and storage charges, besides other
incidental charges, detrimental to the interest of the importers like the
petitioner. The petitioner further submits that even though the discretion to
resort to provisional assessment rests with the proper officers of the Customs,
such discretion has to be exercised in a bona fide manner and not for collateral
purposes or in colourable exercise of such powers. The petitioner is advised to
submit that provisional assessment has to be made on the basis of Sec.18 of the
Customs Act read with the Customs (Provisional Duty Assessment) Regulations,
1963. j). In this regard, the petitioner has been regularly approaching
the respondents for an early clearance, but he has been driven from pillar to
post and representation have not been conceded to. The petitioner submits that
since the representations of the petitioner including other importers did not
evoke any response, the petitioner having no other efficacious remedy is
constrained to approach this Court by way of writ petition, by invoking the
jurisdiction of this Court vested with it under Art.226 of the Constitution of
India, for a suitable remedy for the relief stated earlier. 3.	A counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the
respondents, in which, it is stated as follows:- 3.2.	In order to ascertain the facts from the Importer,
Sri.S.Rajapathi, the Importer Exporter Code (IEC) holder on whose behalf the
said bill of entry was filed by the CHA, was summoned under Section 108 of the
Customs Act, 1962. The said Sri. S.Rajapathi, Proprietor of M/s First Tract
Traders was summoned to give evidence and produce documents such as Purchase
Order, Payment details and other correspondences with the supplier abroad. In
response to the summons, Sri.S.Rajapathi appeared on 20.05.2011 as scheduled and
gave a voluntary statement under Section 108 of the Customs Act. It is further
stated in the counter affidavit that a month back, one Mohamad Hasan, who in
Dubai, informed the petitioner that xerox machines were sent in
Sri.S.Rajapathi's Company name; that he had not received the invoice, packing
list from the said Mohamad Hasan, and he had not arranged CHA for filing the
Bill of Entry; that Shri Mohamad Hasan might have engaged his relative/friends
for the customs documentation and he was totally unaware of the import
consignment & documents; that he contacted Shri Mohammad Hasan and informed his
intention to appear before the investigating officer; that he also informed his
intention that he would disown the consignment; that Shri Mohamed Hasan promised
to come to India to appear before the investigating officers of Customs; that
except giving IEC, he had no connection with this import consignment. The
residential address in India, of the so called Sri.Mohamed Hasan was not known
to him. The said Sri.Mohamed Hasan also has not yet appeared before the
Investigating Officer of DRI, Tuticorin. 3.3. While the matter stood thus, one Sri.N.Viswanathan, an Advocate and
Former Assistant Commissioner of Customs & Central Excise, at Flat N0.8-A,
"RAMS" No.26, South Mada Street, Srinagar Colony, Saidapet, Chennai vide his
letter dated 21.06.2011 on the basis of instructions from Sri.S.Rajapathi of
M/s.First Track Traders, as a Counsel represented to the Deputy Director,
Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Tuticorin to release the goods
provisionally; that he also made allegations that his client was pressurized to
bring Sri.Mohamed Hasan or to file the original bill with one crore value; that
his client was also pressurized to give further report on the value aspects.
However, the said Counsel has also so far neither appeared on behalf of the
original importer nor produced the documents called for from the importer. 3.4.	Thus, the original importer Sri.Mohamed Hasan failed to appear
before the investigating officer to claim the ownership and to produce necessary
license to prove the licit nature of the imported goods. The value is another
aspect which needs to be clarified in the absence of scientific opinion lacking
on the part of the Chartered Engineer. The Chartered Engineer certified all the
114 machines as Xerox Machines whereas the category of import items are found to
be Multifunctional (Copying & Printing) Machines and Photocopier Machines as
admitted in the petition. The importer has to furnish the details and the import
goods are to be subjected to further assessment through other more qualified
technical persons. 3.5.	 It is submitted that the petitioner has not retracted the
statement given before the Investigating Officer under Section 108 of the
Customs Act, 1962 on 20.05.2011 wherein, he denied the ownership of the import
goods. Hence, the facts remain the same. Since the original importer has not
turned up to claim the ownership, the goods are to be treated as abandoned and
to be dealt with accordingly. The claimant has to prove his financial capacity
to receive the goods. The goods are not to be assessed in the name of a person
who totally denied the ownership of the goods. The real importer has to prove
the ownership and then, he has to account for the value and also the legal
aspect of production of import license. 3.6.	Further, in the counter affidavit it is stated that the
importer is one as per Section 2 (26) of the Customs Act, 1962 that the
"importer", in relation to any goods at any time between their importation and
the time when they are cleared for home consumption, includes any owner or any
person holding himself out to be the importer. In this case, the petitioner
denied his ownership of the goods before the Statutory Authorities at the time
the imported goods are under the process of assessment and clearance and hence,
he is not to be considered as an importer. In as much as the imported goods are
attempted to be cleared by undervaluing and also without valid import license,
the said goods are liable for confiscation under Section 111(d) and 111(m) of
the Customs Act,1962. 4.	The first and foremost contention of the learned counsel for
the petitioner is that the petitioner is a person holding himself to be an
importer as furnished under Section 26 of the Customs Act,1962. Therefore, when
the petitioner has produced necessary documents such as bill of entry, invoice
of the goods, packing list and bill of lading, it is not proper for the
respondents to keep the goods without assessment or even for provisional
assessment to clear the consignment. He would further contend that the
petitioner is having been issued with IEC Code and is an assessee of the income
tax with PAN card in favour of establishing his rights to import the goods. 4.1.	The learned counsel for the petitioner, in his written
arguments, submits that the goods imported by him is not in any way prohibited
or banned and are freely importable into India; that the Department itself
having appointed the Chartered Engineer for examining the impugned goods and the
said Engineer having valued the goods as early as on 09.05.2011, the officers
ought not to have held back the clearance of the goods for the last 9 months
which is highly improper and arbitrary. Therefore, the action of the authorities
is contrary to circular No.42/2001 dated 31.7.2001 issued by the Ministry, which
circular as per the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme court is binding on them;
that he is the owner of the goods and is liable to remit the value for the goods
to the overseas supplier; that the invoice issued by the overseas supplier,
packing list, bill of lading all issued in his name which documents he had filed
along with the Bill of Entry clearly evidences his title to the goods leaving no
room for the authorities to take any contrary stand and that the
petitioner also admittedly holds the Import Export Code (IEC) and Income Tax PAN
Card issued in his favour establishing his right to import the goods.
		4.2.	Further, the only reason for initiating investigation is the
import of the goods without a licence. When the goods are importable without a
licence, as per the decision of the Bangalore Tribunal in the case of M/s.Shivam International and another Vs. CC,Cochin , in A.No.2477 to 2488 of 2010, dated
26.05.2011 and in view of the Minutes of the high level meeting held by the
Ministry of Environment & Forest (copy furnished during hearing), the whole
action said to have been taken by them causing the long delay is totally
unsupported and vitiated. The respondents have not denied the contents of the
retraction letter dated 21.6.2011 except for claiming that the petitioner's
counsel neither personally appeared before them on behalf of the original
importer nor produced the documents called for. 4.3.	The only basic contention raised in the counter that the
petitioner had informed his intention to disown the goods and therefore, he has
no locus standi to import the goods is also not proper or legal and cannot be
sustained on merits. The statement made by the petitioner that he would disown
the goods was due to the fact that the authorities are proposing to increase the
value of the goods to Rupees one crore which would ultimately result in the
petitioner being made liable for a very huge duty liability and not in the
ordinary course. The petitioner further submits that without prejudice to his
contention that he is the owner of the impugned goods and therefore, rightfully
entitled to import the goods; that the other ground on locus standi taken by
the respondents is also not sustainable for the following reasons. Sec. 2 (26) of the Customs Act not only recognizes the owner as an importer, but also any
person holding himself to be such importer. In fact, in para 19 of the judgment
of the Hon'ble Supreme court in the case of UOl Vs Sampat Raj Dugar reported in
1992 (58) E.L.T. 163 (S.C.), it is held that ink to the goods imported has no
relevance to the interpretation of the term "importer" defined under Sec. 2 (26) of the Customs Act, which would squarely vacate the above objection taken by the
respondents. Further, the observations of the Hon'ble Division Bench of the
Bombay High court in its judgment reported in 2009 (248) K L T 166 (Bom) also
supports the case Of the petitioner. Further, the Ahmedabad Bench of the
Tribunal also has held the issue in favour of the petitioner vide its decision
reported in 2007 (217) E L T 570, which would negative the claim of the
respondents. This decision is also squarely binding on the respondents. 4.4.	 It is impermissible to state that the goods are waste
attracting the provisions of the Hazardous Wastes Rules, as it only amounted to
improving the case of the revenue 21 and that this Court may consider provisions
contained in regulation 6 (I) of the Handling of Cargo in Customs Area
Regulations, 2009 and the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court reported in
1988 (37) E.L.T. 512 (Bom) as well as the Full Bench of this Hon'ble High Court
in the case reported in 1980 (6) E L T 128 (Mad) and also in the case reported
in 2009 (244) E L T 15 (Mad) which on appeal had resulted in the customs being
saddled with the entire demurrage charges vide judgment of the Hon'ble Madras
High Court and for issuance of a consequential direction to the customs to bear
the costs of demurrage incurred on the goods on account of its long storage due
to the inaction of the authorities for not obeying the instructions of their own
Ministry. 5.	In support of his contentions, learned counsel for the
petitioner has cited the following decisions of the Court:- The Rule making authority (Central Government), which issued the order, must be
presumed to be aware of the fact that in many cases, the importer is not the
owner of the goods imported at the time of their import and that he becomes
their owner only at a later stage, i.e., when he pays for and obtains the
relevant documents. Why did the Central Govt, yet declare that such goods shall
be the property of the licensee from the lime of import? For appreciating this,
one has to ascertain the object underlying the said provision. The
interpretation to be placed upon, the provision should be consistent with and
should be designed to achieve such object. In this context, it should also be
remembered that expressions like 'Property of and 'Vest' do not have a single
universal meaning. Their content varies with the context. The aphorism that a
word is not a crystal and that it takes its colour from the context is no less
true in the case of these words. In our opinion the object underlying Condition (ii) in Clause 5 (3) is to ensure a proper implementation of the Imports
(Control) Order and the Imports and Exports (Control) Act,1947 . The idea is to
hold the licensee responsible for anything and everything that happens from the
time of import till they are cleared through Customs. The exporter is outside
the country, while the importer, i.e., the licensee is in India. It is at the
instance of the licensee that the goods are imported into this country. Whether
or not he is the owner of such goods in law, the Imports (Control) Order creates
a fiction that he shall be deemed to be the owner of the such goods from the
time of their import till they are cleared through Customs. This fiction is
created for the proper and effective implementation of the said order and the Imports and Exports (Control) Act . The fiction however cannot be carried beyond
that. It cannot be employed to attribute ownership of the imported goods to the
importer even in a ease where he abandons them, that is, in a situation where he
does not pay for and receive the documents of title. It may be that for such act
of abandonment, action may be taken against him for suspension/cancellation of
licence. May be, some other proceedings can also be taken against him. But
certainly he cannot be treated as the owner of the goods even in such a case.
Holding otherwise would place the exporter in a very difficult position; he
loses the goods without receiving the payment and his only remedy is to sue the
importer for the price of goods and for such damage as he may have suffered.
This would not be conducive to international trade. We can well imagine
situations where for one or other reason, an importer chooses or fails to pay
for and take delivery of the imported goods. He just abandons them. (We may
reiterate that we are speaking of a case where the import is not contrary to
law). It is only with such a situation that we arc concerned in this case and
our decision is also confined only to such a situation. Condition (ii) in sub-
clause (3) of Clause 5, in our opinion, does not operate to deprive the exporter
of his title to said goods in such a situation. 5.2. In Shree Shilpa Industries Vs. Commissioner of Customs, Raigad
reported in 2009(248) E.L.T.166(Bom), it is held as follows:- 5.3. In Brij Mohan Sood Vs. CC.Kandla, reported in 2007-(217) ELT
570 (Tri-Ahmd), in parA 5, it is held as follows:- 6.	On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondents
would submit that the petitioner is not an importer as defined in the provisions
of the Act. In fact, one Mohammed Hasan is the owner of the consignment and not
the petitioner, as claimed by him in the Writ Petition. The said Mohammed Hasan
informed the authorities concerned that he would disown the consignment and
appear before the officers concerned. He draws the attention of this Court that
as per Section 2(26) of the Customs Act,1962, "importer" in relation to any
goods at any time between their importation and the time when they are cleared
for home consumption, includes any owner or any person holding himself to be the
importer. Whereas, in the present case, he himself denied his ownership of the
goods before the statutory authority by making a statement and he has not
retracted the statement given before the Investigating Officer under Section 108 of the Customs Act,1962. He also draws attention to Section 108 of the Act,
wherein, power is vested with the authorities to summon persons to give evidence
and produce documents. Therefore, the claim of the petitioner is legally
unsustainable. 6.1. The learned counsel for the respondents would further contend
that Section 108 proceedings are criminal in nature. Therefore, the concerned
person alone has to come before the authorities concerned and give evidence.
Since the original importer has not turned up to claim the ownership, the goods
are to be treated as abandoned and to be dealt with accordingly. The goods can
never be assessed in the name of a person who totally denied the ownership of
the goods. The real owner has to prove the ownership of the goods in question.
In this case, the petitioner himself has denied the ownership of the goods
before the authorities concerned. In as much as the imported goods are attempted
to be cleared by undervaluing and also without valid import licence the said
goods are liable for confiscation under Section 111(d) and 111(m) of the Customs
Act, 1952. Therefore, this petition is liable to be dismissed. 6.2.	In support of his contention, the learned counsel for the
respondents has relied on the following decisions:- After hearing both sides and after considering the statutory provisions, we do
not think that appellant, as a matter of right, can claim release of the goods
on payment of redemption fine and duty. Even though gold as such is not a
prohibited item and can be imported, such import is subject to lot of
restrictions including the necessity to declare the goods on arrival at the
Customs Station and make payment of duty at the rate prescribed. There is no
needs for us in this case to consider the conditions on which import is
permissible and whether the conditions are satisfied because the appellant
attempted to smuggle out the goods by concealing the same in emergency light,
mixie, grinder and care horns etc., and hence the goods so brought is
prohibitory goods as there is clear violation of the statutory provisions for
the normal import of gold. Further, as per the statement given by the appellant
under Section 108 of the Act, he is only a carrier, i.e. professional smuggler
smuglling goods on behalf of others for consideration. We, therefore, do not
find any merit in the appellants case that he has the right to get the
confiscated gold released on payment of redemption fine and duty under Section
125 of the Act. The Writ Appeal is therefore dismissed." 7.	I have heard the learned counsel on either side and perused
the documents available on record. 8. A perusal of the facts of this case would reveal that the
petitioner Concern has been engaged in the import and trading of digital
multifunction printing and copying machines as also the photocopier machines and
its accessories, parts and consumables. During the course of its business, it
has imported a consignment comprising of 104 units of old and used Digital
Multifunction Printing and Copying Machines of various models and 10 units of
old and used photocopying machines from the overseas supplier viz. M/s. Jade
Group Ltd. (Br) Sharjah, UAE, covered by Invoice No.5113 dated 07.04.2011 for a
total CIF value of USD 24750 and filed the above stated Bill of Entry bearing
No.3394138 as early as on 03.05.2011 with the assessment group concerned at the
Tuticorin Custom House and sought the clearance of the same. Even though a Bill
of entry was filed by the petitioner herein for the clearance of the impugned
goods as early as on 03.05.11, the respondents have not assessed the subject
bills of entry. A Chartered Engineer, by name Er. P.Senthoor Pandian, Tuticorin,
examined the goods and had given his report dated 09.05.2011, confirming to the
description of the goods as found in the invoice filed by the petitioner herein
and valued the goods marginally higher than the one declared by the petitioner
herein, before the Customs and no diligent steps were initiated by the
respondents herein to assess and clear the goods at an early date in terms of
the provisions contained in the Customs Act , and the regulations made
thereunder, overlooking the circular no.42/2001 issued by CBEC, New Delhi,
providing for speedy clearance of goods imported. In the meantime, the
Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, the 3rd respondent herein, took up
investigation in the matter against the petitioner concerned, concerning the
import of subject goods. He was also summoned by the Directorate of Revenue
Intelligence, and a statement under Section 108 of the Customs Act was recorded
from him, which was exculpatory in nature. While so, the third respondent
arranged for a invoice of higher value, for which, the petitioner sent a notice
through his advocate. The petitioner contends that once the chartered engineer
report has been obtained, there cannot be any impediment for the respondent
department to get the goods assessed and cleared on payment of appropriate duty.
But, the same has not been done by the respondent department for certain
extraneous and irrelevant considerations. Hence, the petitioner is before this
Court. Whereas, the Revenue Department's contention is that as per Section
2(26) of the Customs Act,1962, "importer" in relation to any goods at any time
between their importation and the time when they are cleared for home
consumption, includes any owner or any person holding himself out to be the
importer. In the present case, he himself denied his ownership of the goods
before the statutory authority by making a statement and he has not retracted
the statement given before the Investigating Officer under Section 108 of the
Customs Act,1962. Therefore, he is not entitled to get the goods in question.
Further, in as much as the imported goods are attempted to be cleared by
undervaluing and also without valid import licence the said goods are liable for
confiscation under Section 111(d) and 111(m) of the Customs Act, 1952. 9.	After analysing the above position, the question that arises
for consideration is whether the petitioner's claim to assess and clear
consignment as a person holding himself out to be importer can be considered in
this Writ Petition? 10.	Before going to the root of the matter, let me consider Section 2(26) of the Act. As per the said Act, "importer" in relation to any
goods at any time between the importation and the time when they are cleared
for home consumption, includes any owner or any person holding himself out to be
the importer. While so, while the authorities insisted for proper documentation
to clear the consignment, a statement was made by the petitioner on 20.05.2011,
before the authorities concerned stating that he was unaware of the import
consignment and documents; that he contacted the said Mohammad Hasan and
informed his intention to appear before the investigating officer; that he also
informed his intention that he would disown the consignment; that the said
Mohammed Hasan promised to come to India to appear before the investigating
officers of Customs and that except giving IEC, he had no connection with this
import consignment. As on date, the said statement made by him is in force. As
such, it is not proper for him to claim now as if there was cohersion and he was
made to depose before the respondents. 11.	It is a settled legal position that once a statement is made
under Section 108 of the Act, it is done in the case of prosecution, unless it
is retracted or cancelled, the petitioner's claim for assessment or provisional
assessment cannot be considered. The reliance made by the learned counsel for
the petitioner will not have support to the present peculiar facts and
circumstances of the case and therefore, he cannot have any advantage of those
decisions cited supra. 12.	Analyzing all the factors involved in this case and after
considering the statutory provisions, I am of the opinion that the petitioner,
as a matter of right, cannot claim release of the goods as long as the statement
made by him is still in force. Further, as per Section 108 of the Act, the
Customs authorities have rightly summoned persons to give evidence and produce
documents. Based on which, the claim of the petitioner is negatived. When a
person is unable to establish the ownership of the goods, needless to say, the
respondents vest with the power to reject the claim of the petitioner. 13.	For the foregoing reasons and discussions, I am of the
considered view that mere production of Bill of Entry, Invoice of the goods,
packing list and Bill of Lading, by the petitioner, that itself, will not give
any right over the property, unless the petitioner establishes his ownership in
a manner known to law. Thus, it is for the petitioner to go before the
authorities concerned and take all necessary steps to retract the statement made
by him on 20.05.2011 and prove that he is the person holding out to be an
importer. In these circumstances, the claim of the petitioner has no merit
consideration. However, if the petitioner proves his ownership by retracting
the statement before the authorities concerned, if he is able to establish his
right as a person holding out to be an importer, he can go before the
authorities concerned for assessing the consignment and release of his goods.
Needless to say, the burden is on the petitioner to prove his ownership and
release the goods as required by law. In such event, it is for the respondents
to consider the same on its own merits and in accordance with law and pass
appropriate orders. With the above observations and direction, this Writ Petition stands
disposed of accordingly. No costs. ssm

To 1.The Commissioner of Customs,
 (Seaport-Imports), Customs House,
 New Harbour Estate, Tuticorin. 2.The Additional Commissioner of Customs,
 (Seaport-Imports), Customs House,
 New Harbour Estate, Tuticorin. 3.The Deputy Director,
 Tuticorin Regional Unit,
 Directorate of Revenue Intelligence,
 22,South Beach Road, Roche Colony,
 Tuticorin-628 001.