Adarsh Kumar Goel, J. 1. This petition, by way of public interest litigation, seeks direction
to declare Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (“ PC Act ”)
unconstitutional and to direct prosecution of all cases registered and
investigated under the provisions of PC Act against the politicians,
M.L.As, M.Ps and Government officials, without sanction as required under Section 19 of the PC Act. 2. According to the averments in the writ petition, the petitioner is a
practising advocate in the State of Jammu & Kashmir. In the said State,
several Government officials have been charged for corruption but in the
absence of requisite sanction, they could not be prosecuted. Referring to
several instances including those noticed by this Court in various orders,
it is submitted that the provision for sanction as a condition precedent
for prosecution is being used by the Government of India and the State
Governments to protect dishonest and corrupt politicians and Government
officials. The discretion to grant sanction has been misused. 3. The petition refers to various orders of this Court where incumbents
were indicted but not prosecuted for want of sanction. In Common Cause, a
registered Society vs. Union of India & Ors. (1996) 6 SCC 593, Captain
Satish Sharma, the then Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas was held to
have acted in arbitrary manner in allotting petrol pumps but since sanction
was refused, he could not be prosecuted. In Shiv Sagar Tiwari vs. Union of
India & Ors. (1996) 6 SCC 599, Smt. Shiela Kaul, the then Minister for
Housing and Urban Development, Government of India was indicted for making
arbitrary, mala fide and unconstitutional allotments but still she could
not be prosecuted. In M.C. Mehta (Taj Corridor Scam) vs. Union of India &
Ors., (2007) 1 SCC 110, Ms. Mayawati, the then Chief Minister of U.P. and
Shri Nasimuddin Siddiqui, the then Minister for Environment, U.P. were
indicted and allegations against them were noticed but they could not be
prosecuted in the absence of sanction. It is further stated that in Prakash Singh Badal & Anr. vs. State of Punjab & Ors. , 2007 (1) SCC 1, Lalu
Prasad @ Lalu Prasad Yadav vs. State of Bihar Thr. CBI(AHD) Patna 2007 (1)
SCC 49 and K. Karunakaran vs. State of Kerala 2007 (1) SCC 59, validity of
requirement of sanction was not gone into on the ground of absence of
challenge to its validity. In Shivajirao Nilangekar Patil vs. Mahesh Madhav
Gosavi (Dr.) & Ors. (1987) 1 SCC 227, this Court noticed that there was a
steady decline of public standards and morals. It was necessary to cleanse
public life even before cleaning the physical atmosphere. The provision
for sanction under the PC Act confers unguided and arbitrary discretion on
the Government to grant or not to grant sanction to prosecute corrupt and
dishonest politicians, M.Ps, M.L.As and Government officials. 4. In response to the notice issued by this Court, affidavits have been
filed by several State Governments and Union Territories but no counter
affidavit has been filed by the Union of India. The stand taken in all the
affidavits is almost identical. According to the said stand, the object of Section 19 of the PC Act is to protect public servants against
irresponsible, frivolous and vexatious proceedings for acts performed in
good faith in the discharge of their official duties and to protect them
from unnecessary harassment of legal proceedings arising out of unfounded
and baseless complaints. In the absence of such a provision, the public
servant may not be inclined to offer his/her free and frank opinion and may
not be able to function freely. 5. We have heard Mr. D.K. Garg, learned counsel for the petitioner and
Mr. P.S. Narasimha, learned Additional Solicitor General for the Union of
India and learned counsel for various States. 6. Section 19 of the PC Act is as follows:- 7. Question for consideration is whether Section 19 of the PC Act is
unconstitutional and whether any further direction is called for in public
interest and for enforcement or fundamental rights? 8. The issue raised in this petition is no longer res integra.
Requirement of sanction has salutary object of protecting an innocent
public servant against unwarranted and mala fide prosecution. Undoubtedly,
there can be no tolerance to corruption which undermines core
constitutional values of justice, equality, liberty and fraternity. At the
same time, need to prosecute and punish the corrupt is no ground to deny
protection to the honest. Mere possibility of abuse cannot be a ground to
declare a provision, otherwise valid, to be unconstitutional. The exercise
of power has to be regulated to effectuate the purpose of law. The matter
has already been dealt with in various decisions of this Court. 9. In Vineet Narain & Ors. vs. Union of India & Anr. (1996) 2 SCC 199,
this Court observed in paragraph 3 as follows: 10. Again in a later order in the same case, i.e., Vineet Narain & Ors.
vs. Union of India & Anr. , reported in (1998) 1 SCC 226, it was observed as
under: Increasing corruption has led to investigative journalism which is of value
to a free society. The need to highlight corruption in public life through
the medium of public interest litigation invoking judicial review may be
frequent in India but is not unknown in other countries: R. v. Secy. of
State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, 1995 (1) WLR 386. ................................ ................................ 58. ......................... 15. Time-limit of three months for grant of sanction for prosecution must
be strictly adhered to. However, additional time of one month may be
allowed where consultation is required with the Attorney General (AG) or
any other law officer in the AG’s office.” 11. In a recent judgment of this Court in Subramanian Swamy vs. Manmohan
Singh & Anr. , (2012) 3 SCC 64, the question for consideration was whether a
private citizen has locus to prosecute a public servant and to obtain
sanction and how an application for sanction was to be dealt with. It was
held that any application for sanction sought even by a private citizen
must be looked into expeditiously and decided as per the observations of
this Court in Vineet Narain case (supra) and guidelines framed by the CVC
which were circulated vide Office Order No. 31/5/05 dated 12.05.2005. The
relevant clauses have been quoted in the said judgment . In paragraphs 30,
33, 49, 50 of the leading judgment, it was observed: These protections are not available to other citizens. Public servants are
treated as a special class of persons enjoying the said protection so that
they can perform their duties without fear and favour and without threats
of malicious prosecution. However, the said protection against malicious
prosecution which was extended in public interest cannot become a shield to
protect [pic]corrupt officials. These provisions being exceptions to the
equality provision of Article 14 are analogous to the provisions of
protective discrimination and these protections must be construed very
narrowly. These procedural provisions relating to sanction must be
construed in such a manner as to advance the causes of honesty and justice
and good governance as opposed to escalation of corruption. 75. Therefore, in every case where an application is made to an appropriate
authority for grant of prosecution in connection with an offence under the PC Act it is the bounden duty of such authority to apply its mind urgently
to the situation and decide the issue without being influenced by any
extraneous consideration. In doing so, the authority must make a conscious
effort to ensure the Rule of Law and cause of justice is advanced. In
considering the question of granting or refusing such sanction, the
authority is answerable to law and law alone. Therefore, the requirement to
take the decision with a reasonable dispatch is of the essence in such a
situation. Delay in granting sanction proposal thwarts a very valid social
purpose, namely, the purpose of a speedy trial with the requirement to
bring the culprit to book. Therefore, in this case the right of the
sanctioning authority, while either sanctioning or refusing to grant
sanction, is coupled with a duty. 76. The sanctioning authority must bear in mind that what is at stake is
the public confidence in the maintenance of the Rule of Law which is
fundamental in the administration of justice. Delay in granting such
sanction has spoilt many valid prosecutions and is adversely viewed in
public mind that in the name of considering a prayer for sanction, a
protection is given to a corrupt public official as a quid pro quo for
services rendered by the public official in the past or may be in the
future and the sanctioning authority and the corrupt officials were or are
partners in the same misdeeds. I may hasten to add that this may not be the
factual position in this (sic case) but the general demoralising effect of
such a popular perception is profound and pernicious. 77. By causing delay in considering the request for sanction, the
sanctioning authority stultifies judicial scrutiny and determination of the
allegations against corrupt official and thus the legitimacy of the
judicial institutions is eroded. It, thus, deprives a citizen of his
legitimate and fundamental right to get justice by setting the criminal law
in motion and thereby frustrates his right to access judicial remedy which
is a constitutionally protected right. In this connection, if we look at Section 19 of the PC Act, we find that no time-limit is mentioned therein.
This has virtually armed the sanctioning authority with unbridled power
which has often resulted in protecting the guilty and perpetuating
criminality and injustice in society. 79. Article 14 must be construed as a guarantee against uncanalised and
arbitrary power. Therefore, the absence of any time-limit in granting
sanction in Section 19 of the PC Act is not in consonance with the
requirement of the due process of law which has been read into our
Constitution by the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Maneka
Gandhi v. Union of India (1978) 1 SCC 248. 80. I may not be understood to have expressed any doubt about the
constitutional validity of Section 19 of the PC Act, but in my judgment the
power under Section 19 of the PC Act must be reasonably exercised. In my
judgment Parliament and the appropriate authority must consider
restructuring Section 19 of the PC Act in such a manner as to make it
consonant with reason, justice and fair play. 81. In my view, Parliament should consider the constitutional imperative of Article 14 enshrining the Rule of Law wherein “due process of law” has been
read into by introducing a time-limit in Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 for
its working in a reasonable manner. Parliament may, in my opinion, consider
the following guidelines: 12. Thus while it is not possible to hold that the requirement of
sanction is unconstitutional, the competent authority has to take a
decision on the issue of sanction expeditiously as already observed. A fine
balance has to be maintained between need to protect a public servant
against mala fide prosecution on the one hand and the object of upholding
the probity in public life in prosecuting the public servant against whom
prima facie material in support of allegation of corruption exists, on the
other hand. 13. In view of the law laid down by this Court, no further directions are
necessary. 14. The writ petition is disposed of. .............................................J.
 [ T.S. THAKUR ]

.............................................J.
 [ ADARSH KUMAR GOEL ]
New Delhi
August 06, 2014