Hello my name is saikumar i am from bangalore. I was recently looking for a computer monitor online used or new i went to quikr there i found one ad and contacted him after that that person contacted me through whatsapp only whatsapp but number was not working only messaging through whatsapp. He sent some monitors list wich are lg i attached proof below. He sent his company name called Royal tech enterprises. Moga punjab Dana mandi road, dashmesh nagar, moga, punjab 142001, india This is the address that he has shared. The mistake i made was o didn't check this address in google the company doesn't even exist. After some conversations he told me that you have to transfer off amount of the monitor so that we will start the shipping process. I blindly paid him (25000) through this account details Royal-tech enterprises Sbi bank Nadeem saifi A/c-[protected] Ifsc-sbin0050701 Pan no-jnkps7937c Branch-jabalpur Where the monitor price was (48900). After some time he sent some invoice shipping details in my email. I attached below. That item was coming from dubai i don't know why i didn't realise this my courier was shipped by ems courier as my email details shown. After some time the courier reached delhi sort facility according to tracking report. Then till two days it was in delhi after that one person called to my number and he told that he is from customs calling regarding your monitor you have to pay custom clearance after clearing only we will deliver it to your address i blindly belived he also shared his account details i transferred 21850 again he called in the next day morning and asking you courier has two more monitors so you have to pay for all of them total that guy who called me under customs name he robbed 90500 from me. All my hard earned money gone. He was saying there are 4 monitor only name so you have to pay for all four he took money from me part by part i blindly transferred. These are the account details of that customs person who called me for clearance. Name - md monirul hoque Sbi-[protected] Ifs: sbin0012416 Pan-ahqph4822e Branch-mangalbari I transferred total 90500 to this account. After this amount transferred done he told your payment received i will send your courier delivery agent is boarding flight once he will reach to your town he will call you he told. And today morning i called his phone number doesn't exist it is saying. Them i got to know that i am duped all my money is gone. And that person who sent me message in whatsapp created shipping process he is offline now he is not even answering my messages. Now all the money that i saved gone i wanted to buy a monitor for my work and that also gone i can't buy now. So people whom ever reading this keep it in my mind don't believe any people through olx quikr without any proof security don't send to anyone one single rupee because online anything cam happen people try to fool you so becarful don't make a mistake that i did. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)