1. Relief Sought

 The jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 of BNSS, 2023, has

been invoked seeking anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case FIR No. 183, dated

12.09.2024, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code,

1860, registered at Police Station City Rajpura, District Patiala (Annexure P-1). 2. Prosecution story, set up in the present case as per the version in the

FIR read as under :- Bahadur Singh Son of Dalip Singh Resident of Village Raipur Rajputan Tehsil
 Khanna District Ludhiana Phone No. (98147-93979)," On the application Sub
 Divisional Magistrate Rajpura has written while sending copy of the complaint is
 sent to the Deputy Supertindent of Police Rajpura, Circle, and it is written that
 the necessary action as per the rules be taken immediately implemented.Sd/- Sub-
 Divisional Magistrate, Rajpura," which application was investigated by the
 Deputy Superintendent of Police, Circle Rajpura, who conducted his
 investigation, who written in his report that Sir in the complaint enclosed No.
 591/Steno dated 07-2-2024 Office Sub Divisional Magistrate Rajpura submitted
 Bahadur Singh against the above named Hardeep Singh, son of Harbans Singh,
 son of Teja Singh, etc., residents of Uttalan Village, Teh: Samrala District,
 Ludhiana, by preparing false and forged documents and by producing fake un
 known persons and also producing fake unknown girl, getting marriage
 registered has been received. A notice has been given to both the parties for the
 investigation of the complaint. The complainant-Bahadur Singh along with his
 witnesses Jagtar Singh son of Dalip Singh resident of Ludhiana and Jasveer
 Singh son of Hari Singh resident of Shaheedgarh, District Fatehgarh Sahib came
 to the presence, who were associated in the inquiry and their statement were
 recorded, and also received concerned record. The other party Harbans Singh
 submitted a photocopy of the earlier statement dated 20-12-2023, apart from this,
 no witness or evidence was submitted. The concerned record and recorded
 statements are annexed for your kind perusal. From my preliminary investigation,
 scrutinized the recorded statements and perusal of relevant records, it has been
 found that the complainant-Bahadur Singh is working as a Division
 Superintendent in the PSPCL Electricity Department, Doraha. According to him,
 his daughterDaljit Kaur Ballewal applied for study visa to go to England for

 3 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 16-01-2025 06:49:54 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:004981 CRM-M-718-2025 -4- which all the fees were paid by the complainant. on dated 08.03.2023, the
 complainant's daughter got a study visa for England. He had given an
 advertisement in the newspaper on 02-04-2023 for marriage alliance of his
 daughter Daljit Kaur Ballewal that the visa of the complainant's daughter has
 been approved for England, she needs a boy who can bear all the expenses of
 going abroad. After publishing this advertisement,Charanjit Singh, son of Lakhvir
 Singh, resident of village Sayian Kalan, Dehlon, District Ludhiana contacted the
 complainant ,as the above said Charanjit Singh works as a matchmaker, who
 gave all information about the above said Hardeep Singh and his family
 members, and later on Charanjit Singh introduced both the families in a mini
 palace at Dehle on 05-04-2023, where 5 members each from both the families
 were present, and talked about the marriage of the complainant's daughter, and
 thereafter both the families gave their consent. Before the engagement ceremony,
 the above said Hardeep Singh and his family had given assurance to the
 complainant and his family that they would bear all the expenses of Visa of the
 complainant's daughter to England and also ready to bear further expenses, the
 total comes to Rs.25 lakhs,given assurance to give the same, and also assured
 that they will get their marriage registered and the complainant's daughter will
 go abroad to England first and after that Hardeep Singh will get his visa
 approved at his own expense and will go to the petitioner's daughter to
 England.As per stated by the complainant that at that occasion the above said
 Charanjit Singh told us that you should give PDF file of all important documents
 of your daughter like copy of visa for England, copy of Aadhaar card, copy of
 passport, copy of PAN card, copy of school certificate, photographs, etc. were
 taken the same by saying that he has to get these documents checked from his
 agent-Parshant Kapoor son of Sunder Lal Kapoor,resident of 3538, Gandhi
 Colony, Rajpura, Distt. Patiala,who is running his business in the name of Parth
 Immigration Visa Educational Consultation at Pachranga Chowk, Rajpura. After
 this the complainant performed the engagement ceremony of his daughter Daljit
 Kaur Ballewal with the above said Hardeep Singh at Dehlo on the same day and
 also performed Shagun ceremony. On this occasion, the family of Hardeep Singh
 clicked some photographs and they gave an assurance to speed up the marriage
 ceremony. On the same day Hardeep Singh handed over three cheques of total
 amount of Rs.25 lakhs to the complainant under three separate signatures and
 assured that he will clear the cheques, after checking papers of his daughter in
 order. Apart from this, the above named Charanjit Singh also took the ticket of
 the complainant's daughter to England through Hardeep Singh, but much later
 they did not tell anything to the complainant, due to which the complainant did
 not encash the said cheques,nor the above said Hardeep Singh asking the
 complainant to present the cheques for clearance. After this, the complainant

 4 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 16-01-2025 06:49:54 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:004981 CRM-M-718-2025 -5- talked to the above said Charanjit Singh and Hardeep Singh many times about
 his daughter's marriage, but Hardeep Singh later neither register the marriage
 with my daughter, nor entered any agreement regarding the marriage, and made
 lame excuses to the complainant. On the other hand, the complainant's
 daughter's visa to England kept on, and while considering future prospectus of
 his daughter, the complainant sent her daughter to England on 06-05-2023. The
 ticket of daughter of the complainant was arranged by Charanjit Singh and
 Hardeep Singh through Prashat Kapoor. A few days after his daughter's arrival
 in England, she had an interview, in which it came to light that Hardeep Singh
 had applied his spouse visa file to England. The complainant's daughter told to
 him that, Hardeep Singh etc.,by mis using her documents,Hardeep Singh
 projected one other girl in place of his daughter and also presented some other
 person in place of complainant Bhadur Singh register marriage at Rajpura. At
 the time of registration of marriage, witness- Sukhwinder Singh, son of Hoshiar
 Singh, a resident village Saidheri put his attestation from boy Hardeep Singh and
 Charanjit Singh from the girl side. While in the photo of the registered marriage
 certificate, neither the complainant, nor his girl, who got this marriage,
 registered by presentation some fake girl in place of his daughter and a fake
 person in place of the complainant. The original passport size photo of the
 complainant and his daughter Daljit Kaur Ballewal is annexed for verification.
 The above named Hardeep Singh used this marriage certificate in the file of his
 spouse visa. The application form and other documents related to thes court
 marriage registered were obtained by the complainant under the RTI Act -2005.
 The photocopies of same are annexed for kind perusal. The complainant is
 suspected that work of fake registration of marriage in the name of his daughter
 and forging a fake marriage certificate has been done only by Prashant Kapoor,
 as neither Hardeep Singh is a resident of the said Village Saidkheri nor any of his
 family members lives in Saidkheri village. Their village proofs of Saidkhedi were
 also prepared by Prashant Kapoor. The above said Hardeep Singh along with his
 family and other persons did all the wrong and illegal work with bad intention
 have done .From the entire investigation, Hardeep Singh son of Harbans Singh,
 Harbans Singh son of Teja Singh resident of village Uttala, Tehsil,Samrala
 District Ludhiana, Sukhwinder Singh son of Hoshiyar Singh resident of village
 Saidkheri and Charanjit Singh son of Lakhvir Singh, resident of village Sayian
 Kala Dehle,District Ludhiana, by producing fake girl Daljit Kaur and fake
 Bahadur Singh and by putting wedding photos of someone else in the file and by
 posing another fake girl as his daughter in place of complainant's daughter and
 by using papers which were taken by him by making excuses to get this marriage
 registered. From which offence under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-A IPC has
 been made out and investigation of the same has been done after registration of

 5 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 16-01-2025 06:49:54 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:004981 CRM-M-718-2025 -6- case. Apart from this, if the said Prashant Kapoor or any officer/ employee
 related to the said marriage registration, if any inconsistency comes to light, then
 according to the facts revealed during the investigation of the case under section
 115, the action was taken by registration of case in their names, and investigation
 of the matter, and verify about the fake girl Daljit Kaur and fake Bahadur Singh
 and their names will entered in the case. Still it is necessary to obtain a legal
 opinion from DA Legal, Patiala. After obtaining legal opinion from DA,Legal
 Patiala, Hardeep Singh, Harbans Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Charanjit Singh,
 Fake girl Daljit Kaur and fake Bahadur Singh please be informed. The next order
 to the Chief Head Officer of Police Station City Rajpura to register a case
 against above named persons be assured. Sd/- Deputy Superintendent of Police
 Circle Rajpura," vide application vide Scrutiny Report No. 121/P/DSP/ Rajpura
 dated 05.08.2024" 6 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 16-01-2025 06:49:54 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:004981 CRM-M-718-2025 -7- lodged a fabricated complaint against the father of the petitioner and his

associates, purportedly to protect his own interests. It is further contended that

preliminary inquiries by the DSPs found no merit to the allegations, but the

complainant, allegedly utilizing political influence, managed to secure the

registration of a fresh complaint, culminating in the current FIR. The petitioner

asserts that prima facie no case of cheating has been made out against him, as the

complainant and his daughter are the primary culprits. The petitioner assures this

Court that he is ready and willing to cooperate with the investigation. On behalf of the respondent/State/complainant

 Learned State counsel assisted by the counsel for the complainant has

vehemently opposed the prayer made in the present petition contending that not

only the complainant has been deceived, but a fraud has also been perpetrated on

the State as the petitioner in collusion with his co-accused, managed to obtain a

marriage certificate, falsely registering the marriage between him and daughter of

the complainant, despite no such marriage was solemnized. Further contention is

that another woman was impersonated as the daughter of the complainant before

the Marriage Registrar to procure the marriage certificate, which was used for

filing the visa application of spouse of Hardeep Singh. The petitioner and his co- accused, Harbans Singh, were fully aware of the fact that the woman impersonate

as Daljeet Kaur before the Marriage Registrar was not actually Daljeet Kaur. Further documents belonging to Daljeet Kaur, which had been obtained by the

accused, were misused for fraudulent purposes. In light of the severity of the offense, it is further argued that custodial

interrogation of the petitioner is necessary. 7 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 16-01-2025 06:49:54 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2025:PHHC:004981 CRM-M-718-2025 -8- 4. Analysis

 This Court has examined the material available on record. The evidence

reveals that the petitioner, in collusion with the co-accused persons, has cheated the

complainant and misused the documents of his daughter. It is alleged that the accused

substituted other individuals to impersonate Bahadur Singh and his daughter in a

fraudulent marriage, which was unlawfully registered with the intent of securing a

spouse visa for England. The petitioner is identified as the principal conspirator in

this fraudulent scheme. The allegations pertain to immigration fraud committed by

the accused. The marriage certificate was obtained by means of forged documents

and impersonation. The petitioner has admitted that the marriage was a contract

marriage, thus prima facie indicating that the intention of the parties was to commit

immigration fraud to secure a spouse visa for the petitioner namely Hardeep Singh. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sumitha Pradeep Vs. Arun

Kumar C.K. & Anr. 2022 Live Law (SC) 870 held that merely because custodial

interrogation was not required by itself could not be a ground to grant anticipatory

bail. The first and the foremost thing the Court hearing the anticipatory bail

application is to consider is the prima facie case against the accused. The relevant

extract of the judgment is reproduced hereinbelow:- More so, investigation is still going on in the present case. It is

settled proposition of law that power exercisable under Section 438 Cr.P.C., is

somewhat extraordinary in character and it is to be exercised in exceptional cases. The Supreme Court in " State vs. Anil Sharma "; (1997) 7 SCC 187, held as

under:- In light of legal aspects as well as the enunciation discussed

hereinabove and the role attributed to the petitioner, this Court is of the opinion

that custodial interrogation is necessary to ascertain the source from which the

impersonators were procured, the origin of the forged documents, and the

identities of other individuals involved in the fraudulent scheme. Such

interrogation may further assist the Investigating Agency in uncovering the full

scope of the conspiracy, which will enable it to reach to a logical conclusion. Consequently, this Court finds no merit in the present petition, which

is hereby dismissed. No order as to costs is made. However, it is made clear that the observations in this order are only

for the purposes of deciding this bail application and the trial Court is free to

adjudicate upon the matter in accordance with law.