This is a petition filed under Section 482 of the Criminal

Procedure Code seeking to quash the entire proceedings in

Annexure-1 complaint and Annexure-2 First Information Report and

all further proceedings in crime 1494/2021 of Pala police station as

against the petitioner to the extent the same imputes the petitioner with

an offence under Section 67A of the Information Technology Act, so

as to secure the ends of justice. 2. Crime No.1494/2021 of Pala police station was registered

on 14.07.2021 on the basis of a complaint preferred by the 1 st

respondent Stephen George, who is a former MLA, before the Station

House Officer alleging offence under Section 67 and 67A of the

Information Technology Act, Sections 469 , 471 , 120B of the IPC and Section 120(o) of the Kerala Police Act. The petitioner/the

complainant claimed that he is the General Secretary of the Kerala

Congress(M) and a former MLA of the Kerala Congress (M), which is

a recognised political party. According to him, the accused

dishonestly and fraudulently forged electronic records to harm the Crl.M.C.4152/2021 3 reputation of Sri.Jose K. Mani, who is a political leader and Chairman

of the Kerala Congress (M), who was a former member of the Lok

Sabha and son of the former party leader late Sri. K.M. Mani. Sri.

Jose K. Mani is well-known for his honesty, integrity and

trustworthiness. He belongs to a very highly respectable and noble

family and also a reputed member of the society and a well-known

leader across the State and a visible media personality. The accused

had dishonestly and fraudulently forged electronic records to harm the

reputation of Sri.Jose K. Mani and Sri.Thomas Chazhikkadan, who is

a former MLA and a sitting Member of the Parliament who has

spotless reputation, goodwill, integrity and trustworthiness in general

public. It is alleged that the accused and his associates have published

sexually explicit materials through social media platforms such as

Facebook, Whatsapp etc. In one instance, he published posts of

Sri.Jose K. Mani fabricating his picture with the infamous Saritha with

a comment therein that "എനന്റെ കരളളേ എനനികകക്കും കനിടനി 5 വര്‍ഷക്കും" and got

electronic record published and transmitted through 'Palkaran Pala', a

Facebook page. It also came out that he had fraudulently created a

Facebook ID in the fake name of Thomas Mathew, handling the ID Crl.M.C.4152/2021 4 through Thomas Mathew, has stipulated and transmitted another

obscene, sexually explicit post, "for defeated Jose, Saritha has

dedicated a song from jail, വദനസകരത ളമമോഹസകന്ദരമോ" which was

posted on 9th May, 2021. According to the complainant, the word

"വദനസകരത" is obscene and sexually explicit, meaning oral sex. The

accused is continuously publishing the posts without verifying the real

facts but with malicious intent to harm the reputation of Sri.Jose K.

Mani and Sri.Thomas Chazhikkadan. He had also published facebook

posts in his personal blog 'Palkaran Pala' with forged pictures of

Sri.Jose K. Mani and a film comedian with comments that he had sold

Piravam seat for a price and that he was holding a currency counting

machine. Similar other matters published in the social media have

been highlighted by the complainant for initiating criminal

prosecution against the accused. On that basis, the crime was

registered and during the course of investigation the petitioner moved

the Sessions Court, Kottayam seeking anticipatory bail under Section

438 of Cr.P.C. But by Annexure-5 order the Sessions Judge dismissed

that application. Now the petitioner has approached this Court under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. for quashing the entire proceedings. Crl.M.C.4152/2021 5 3. As in the case put forward before the Sessions Court, he

has raised four contentions before this Court for quashing the

proceedings. Firstly, he says that he is totally innocent and the

allegations against him are false and are politically motivated, as he

belongs to opposite political denomination, the crime has been

launched for wreaking political vengeance, that he is made a scape

goat. Secondly, according to the petitioner, even if the allegations are

taken as such without admitting, that would attract only offence under Section 67 of the IT Act and the ingredients of offence under Section

67A are not available. In that case, the offences are bailable. Thirdly,

it is said that the complainant cannot have any personal grievance in

the matter and he has approached the Court on the directions of his

political supremo and he is not personally affected and fourthly that

there is considerable delay in initiating the prosecution. Even though

the alleged cause of action had arisen between 17.04.2021 and

15.05.2021, the complaint was preferred on 13.07.2021 and the crime

was registered on 14.07.2021. That means, there is a delay of 60 days

which has not been explained. On these considerations the

proceedings are sought to be quashed. 4. I heard the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner, the

learned counsel for the 1st respondent and also the learned Director

General of Prosecution for the 2nd respondent. 5. According to the learned Senior counsel who represented

the petitioner, he is not the said 'Palkaran Pala', that the police is

proceeding against him alleging that he has published posts in the

social media as if he has numerous other names, which is baseless.

The counsel also reiterated that offence under Section 67A of the IT

Act cannot be attracted in the facts of the case. After all, it is a

political gamut; the petitioner is an engineering graduate having wife

and two small children, he has been unnecessarily dragged into the

proceedings. The counsel also complained that he is the victim of

social bullying, that himself and his wife are targeted by political

opponents; even though he had preferred a complaint against such

illegal activities, the police have not taken any action against the

culprits. Instead, they have acted on a malicious complaint at the

instance of the political opponents and political masters, for harassing

him. 6. Along with Crl.M.A. 3 of 2021, the learned counsel Crl.M.C.4152/2021 7 brought to my notice the relevant extracts from the 'Sabdatharavali'

and said that what is stated is 'വദനസകരത'. 'വദനക്കും' means face and

'വദനസകരത' only means 'extreme like towards face' and it has no

sexual tone and that the petitioner is being harassed giving a false

interpretation. 7. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the 1 st

respondent submitted that the petitioner/accused was bent upon to

malign Sri.Jose K. Mani, Chairman of the Kerala Congress (M), who

is a known political figure in the State who has his own reputation and

respect in the society. According to him, ingredients of offence under Section 67A are very much attracted. 8. The learned Director General of Prosecution also opposed the

application contending that the posts made by the petitioner have to be

understood in the context it were published, the aspect from

etymological point of view has to be appreciated. According to him,

such contentions were not worth even for granting anticipatory bail

under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. and therefore it is not acceptable in a

proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. 9. Before going into the rival contentions, it is only Crl.M.C.4152/2021 8 appropriate to set out the guidelines issued by the Apex Court in Union of India v. B.R. Bajaj [AIR 1994 SC 1256] etc. The

following categories of cases can be stated by way of illustration

wherein the extraordinary power under Article 226 of the Constitution

or the inherent power under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. can be

exercised by the High Court to prevent abuse of the process of any

Court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice: Let us consider whether how far the above parameters can be applied

to the factual matrix of this case. 10. In the Annexure-1 complaint, among other things, the 1st

respondent has also referred to Majeesh K. Mathew v. State of

Kerala and another [2018 (4) KHC 253]. According to the learned

Senior Counsel for the petitioner, that decision has little application to

the facts of the case. That crime was initiated by a lady against whom

oblique utterances were made through social media describing her as

sexually promiscous etc. Here, that is not the case. Therefore,

according to the learned counsel, that decision has no application in

this case. I have no doubt that there, facts of the case are different.

But it requires to be pointed out that in that decision this Court had

occasion to consider the ingredients of Section 67A of the IT Act and

the decision stands confirmed by the Hon'ble Apex Court. Whatever it

may be, at this stage it is not necessary to give much thrust on that

aspect. 11. I shall at once turn to the contentions raised by the learned

counsel for the petitioner for quashing the proceedings. The first

contention, that he is totally innocent and the allegations are false, Crl.M.C.4152/2021 11 cannot be considered in a proceedings under Section 482 of Cr.P.C.

All the same, there are reasons to think that the petitioner had made

postings on a regular basis in social media such as whatsapp, face

book etc. There is also allegation that he had fraudulently and

dishonestly created and handled several fake IDs in the face book in

the names of Reena Paul, Thomas Mathew, Shaji Pala, Shaji K.M.,

Palkaran Chettan, Palkaran Pala, etc. Such fake IDs were created and

handled by him with dishonest and malicious intention to harm the

reputation of his political rivals. It is the specific allegation that he

had used two mobile numbers, details of which have been narrated in

the complaint filed by the 1st respondent. At this stage, this Court

cannot consider the correctness, falsity or otherwise of such

allegations. It is a matter to be investigated by an investigating agency

and therefore it is too premature to form an opinion about the

contention. 12. Secondly, it was contended that an offence under Section

67A of the IT Act, which alone is non-bailable, is not attracted.

According to the learned counsel, Section 67A has been invoked only

to make the case non bailable and with an intention of harassing the Crl.M.C.4152/2021 12 petitioner. Now the question is whether he had made sexually explicit

postings in the social media. The most vital point in this connection is

a caricature of the said Jose K. Mani along with an infamous lady who

had depicted having dedicated a song "വദനസകരത ളമമോഹസകന്ദരമോ". As

noticed earlier, the learned Senior Counsel tried to make an

interpretation and said that it does not have sexually explicit tone and

that at the most it has only a positive tone, it should not have been

interpreted to attract Section 67A of the IT Act. But, after having

considered this aspect, I do not have any hesitation to say that such an

interpretation cannot be made at least at this stage. Every word has to

be understood in the context it is used. The interpretation, it appears,

attempted by the learned Senior Counsel is a distorted version, taken

out of context, to justify and suit the conveniences of the petitioner. 13. It is the settled proposition of law, as held by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Devidas Ramachandra Tuljapurkar v. State of

Maharashtra and others [AIR 2015 SC 2612] in deciding whether

the matter in question is obscene, the Court has to take overall view of

the matter; that there has to be an objective assessment and the Judge

must in the first place put himself in the position of the author and, Crl.M.C.4152/2021 13 thereafter, in the position of reader of every case and must eliminate

the subjective element or personal preference; The contemporary

community standards test is the main criterion in deciding the

obscenity and it has to be appreciated on the foundation of modern

perception, regard being had to the criterion that develops the

literature. I do not think that the expression "വദനസകരത

ളമമോഹസകന്ദരമോ" has a tone that can be understood differently. It has

similarities with the opening lines of a popular Malayalam film song;

it seems that in the context it was used only meant to give expression

to oral sex, which has a sexually explicit tone and therefore the

contention that Section 67A has no application cannot be accepted in

right earnest. 14. The third contention that the complainant has no locus

standi also cannot be accepted. It is trite law that a criminal

prosecution can be initiated by any one, even if he is not personally

aggrieved. Here the complainant/the 1st respondent is an office-bearer

of a political party; the said denigrating postings were published

referring to two senior office-bearers of his political party. Mr.Jose K.

Mani is none other than the Chairman of the Kerala Congress (M) and Crl.M.C.4152/2021 14 Mr. Thomas Chazhikkadan is a sitting Member of the Parliament,

elected in the Kerala Congress (M) ticket. Therefore, it cannot be said

that he has no locus standi to initiate the proceedings. 15. It was also said that there is considerable delay in initiating

the proceedings. That also cannot be accepted at this stage. In fact a

delay in initiating a criminal proceedings would be fatal only if such

delay has resulted in embellishment, exaggeration etc. and thereby

caused prejudices to the accused. It is a question of fact which can be

considered only at the appropriate time. Therefore, the delay aspect

cannot be highlighted to quash the proceedings at the threshold itself. 16. As mentioned earlier, the petitioner had earlier moved the

Sessions Court with an application under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. and

his application was dismissed. As rightly pointed out by the learned

DGP, contentions which were not worth beneficial to get an order

under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. has been reiterated for quashing the

proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. In other words, even for

getting anticipatory bail such contentions were not acceptable and in a

worse condition for quashing the proceedings, such arguments are not

at all acceptable. 17. When the contentions of the petitioner are taken in the

touch stone of the parameters laid down by the Apex Court, I have no

doubt that the petitioner is not entitled to succeed. At this stage such

arguments are superfluous and are liable to be rejected. Resultantly, the application for quashing the proceedings is

devoid of merits and is dismissed. K.HARIPAL
 JUDGE
okb/21.11 Crl.M.C.4152/2021 16 APPENDIX OF CRL.MC 4152/2021 PETITIONER ANNEXURE
Annexure 1 TRUE COPY OF THE COMPLAINT PREFERRED BY THE
 DEFACTO-COMPLAINANT BEFORE THE STATION HOUSE
 OFFICER PALAI WITH THE ANNEXURES APPENDED
 THERETO
Annexure 2 TRUE COPY OF THE FIRST INFORMATION REPORT IN
 CRIME NO.1494/2021 OF PALAI POLICE STATION,
 KOTTAYAM DISTRICT DATED 14.07.2021
Annexure 3 TRUE COPY OF THE COMPLAINT PREFERRED BY THE
 PETITIONER BEFORE THE STATION HOUSE OFFICER,
 PALAI DATED 19.08.2021
Annexure 4 TRUE COPY OF THE RELEVANT SCREENSHOTS
 EVIDENCING THE CYBER ATTACKS CARRIED OUT ON
 THE REGISTERED GOOGLE PAGE OF THE COMPANY OF
 THE PETITIONER
Annexure 5 TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER OF THE COURT OF
 SESSION, KOTTAYAM IN CRL MP NO.1294/2021
 DATED 07.09.2021
Annexure 6 TRUE COPY OF THE RELEVANT SCREENSHOT OF THE
 FACEBOOK PAGE OF 'PALKKARAN PALA' EVIDENCING
 THAT THE ADMINS OF THE PAGE ARE LOCATED AT
 AUSTRALIA
Annexure 7 TRUE COPY OF THE RELEVANT PAGES OF THE
 SABDATHARAVALI