1. This application has been filed under Section 438 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 seeking anticipatory bail in FIR
 No. 0254/2022 registered at Police Station: Kalkaji South-East, Delhi
 under Sections 420 / 468 / 471 / 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in
 short, ' IPC '). Section 467 IPC was also added later. 2. It is the case of the prosecution that the complainant,
 Mr.Surender Mohan, filed a complaint stating that he had received
 letters dated 08.01.2020 and 15.01.2020 from the Punjab National Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:12.01.2024 21:12:45 BAIL APPLN. 4364/2023 Page 1 of 7 Bank, Kalkaji Branch (in short, 'PNB') with regard to an alleged term
 loan account in the name of one M/s. Harpreet Impex, which was
 stated to be a partnership firm of which he was alleged to be one of the
 partners. He denied having any connection with the said firm or
 having availed or taken any such loan. On inquiry, it was found that
 his Aadhaar Card and Pan Card has been misused inter alia by the
 applicant herein for claiming that he was a partner in the said firm and
 a Partnership Deed allegedly bearing complainant's signatures was
 produced before the bank. The Partnership Deed bore a photograph of
 a different person. It is further alleged that the term loan got
 sanctioned by mortgaging a flat which, in fact, stood in the name of
 the daughter of the complainant, who has been residing in London. It
 was further alleged that the said property, in fact, had already been
 sold by him, as a Power of Attorney of his daughter, to a third party
 on 24.08.2018. 3. He further stated that he had been approached in the year 2017-
 18 by a property dealer, namely, Mr.Manish, to sell the above
 property. The complainant entered into negotiation with one Mr.Ravi
 Gehlot and his wife Mrs.Kiran Gehlot, who are also the accused in the
 present FIR. The complainant alleges that he had handed over the
 property papers of the said property along with a copy of his Aadhaar
 Card, copy of the Passport, and the Pan Card of his daughter, to
 Mr.Ravi Gehlot as he had represented that he would require a loan for
 purchasing the said property. The complainant alleged that misusing
 the said papers, the above loan transaction was entered into by the
 accused in connivance with each other. 4. Further, investigation has revealed that the alleged Partnership
 Deed showed the applicant herein as one of the partners of M/s
 Harpreet Impex. It alleged to have been further revealed that the
 applicant along with her husband, Mr.Deepak, a co-accused, had
 applied for the alleged loan on the basis of allegedly forged and
 fabricated documents in the name of the Partnership Firm, and had
 obtained an overdraft limit of Rs.1.30 Crores from the PNB. An
 amount of Rs.2,50,000/- was also transferred into the account of the
 applicant herein, and later, she received another amount of
 Rs.2,05,000/- from the co-accused, that is, Mr.Ravi Gehlot. 5. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the
 allegations against the applicant are all based on documentary
 evidence. All such documents have already been retrieved by the
 prosecution and, therefore, there is no need for a custodial
 interrogation of the applicant. He further submits that, pursuant to the
 interim bail granted by this Court vide Order dated 29.12.2023 in the
 present proceedings, the applicant has duly joined the investigation
 and she undertakes to join the investigation as and when called. 6. He submits that as per the Status Report, the custodial
 interrogation of the applicant is required also to obtain her signatures
 and handwriting, which she is willing to give voluntarily to the
 prosecution and, therefore, again, there is no necessity for custodial
 interrogation of the applicant. 7. He submits that the entire case against the applicant is based on
 the alleged disclosure statements made by the co-accused, which Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:12.01.2024 21:12:45 BAIL APPLN. 4364/2023 Page 3 of 7 would, in any case, be not admissible in view of Section 27 of the
 Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 8. He further submits that the applicant is a woman having roots in
 the society and is not a flight risk. She also has to take care of two
 children and, therefore, it would be in the interest of justice that she be
 granted an anticipatory bail. 9. He submits that the prosecution has relied upon an earlier FIR
 registered in which the applicant is again arrayed as a co-accused,
 however, the dispute giving rise to the said FIR has already been
 settled by the applicant with the complainant/informant therein. He
 submits that, therefore, the said FIR cannot be a reason to deny
 anticipatory bail to the applicant. 10. In support of his submissions, the learned counsel for the
 applicant places reliance on the judgments of the Supreme Court in
 Santosh s/o Dwarkadas Fafat v. State of Maharashtra (2017) 9 SCC
 714; and of this Court in Ankit Narang v. State, Govt. Of NCT of
 Delhi 2022 SCC OnLine Del 734; and Sangeeta Bhatia v. State of
 NCT of Delhi 2022 SCC Online Del 464. 11. The learned counsel for the applicant further submits that as far
 as the receipts of the amount of Rs.2,50,000/- from the partnership
 firm and Rs.2,05,000/- from the co-accused, namely, Mr.Ravi Gehlot,
 is concerned, as per the case of the prosecution itself the said amounts
 had been later transferred to the husband of the applicant, that is,
 Mr.Deepak Anand, who is already in custody. 12. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the State, and the
 learned counsel for the informant/complainant, submit that the
 prosecution is yet to unearth the full extent of the conspiracy. They
 submit that the applicant had earlier not appeared pursuant to the
 notices that were issued to her, and Non-Bailable Warrants had to be
 issued for seeking her production. It is only at that stage that the
 applicant filed the present application. They submit that the applicant
 can be termed as a habitual offender inasmuch as the earlier FIR is
 also lodged on similar allegations against the applicant. The applicant
 is also the beneficiary of the ill-gotten money that was received
 pursuant to the conspiracy hatched in the present matter. 13. I have considered the submissions made by the learned counsels
 for the parties. 14. The allegations made against the applicant are rather severe. As
 noted hereinabove, it has been alleged that she actively connived
 along with the co-accused in projecting herself to be a partner along
 with the complainant/informant to obtain an overdraft facility from the
 bank. In the said transaction, the property belonging to the daughter of
 the complainant was mortgaged illegally without any authority. The
 complainant/informant has stated that the said property, in fact, stood
 sold to a third party prior to the date of the transaction. This would
 involve multiple victims facing consequences for the acts of the
 conspiracy that has been alleged against the applicant. The entire
 extent of this conspiracy and the manner of its execution are yet to be
 unearthed fully by the prosecution. 15. Though, the learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that
 the amount that was received by the applicant from the partnership
 firm and from the co-accused, stood transferred to her husband,
 presently it cannot be denied that she did first receive this money.
 What was her exact role in the same can only be unearthed by further
 investigation. 16. Added to this is a fact that she earlier tried to evade
 investigation and Non-Bailable Warrants had to be issued for seeking
 her production. 17. In addition to the above, the prosecution alleges that there is
 another FIR with similar allegations against the applicant. Though, the
 applicant states that the dispute giving rise to the said FIR has been
 settled with the complainant/informant therein and has placed a
 settlement deed on record in support of this assertion, in my view, this
 itself would give rise to a suspicion that similar modus operandi has
 been used by the applicant in more than one case. The possibility of
 more cases being there where the applicant is involved, can also not be
 ruled out. The same would again require custodial interrogation of the
 applicant. 18. Only being a woman cannot grant additional protection or rights
 to the accused. 19. In view of the above, I find no merit in the present application
 and the same is dismissed. 20. Needless to state, any and all observations made hereinabove
 are confined to the consideration of the present application and shall
 not, in any manner, be represented as an expression of any final
 opinion of this Court and shall not prejudice the applicant in any
 future proceeding emanating from the above FIR. 21. The application is disposed of in the above terms. NAVIN CHAWLA, J
 JANUARY 11, 2024/ns/RP
 Click here to check corrigendum, if any Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL Signing Date:12.01.2024 21:12:45 BAIL APPLN. 4364/2023 Page 7 of 7