Though this appeal is listed for orders, with the consent of

learned Senior counsel for the appellant, learned Senior counsel

for respondent No.5-Society, learned counsel for respondent

No.8 Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and learned

Additional Government Advocate for other respondents, it is

heard finally. 2. This appeal assails order dated 20.05.2014 passed

by the learned Single Judge in W.P.No.36564/2012. By the said

order, learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petition. Being

aggrieved, writ petitioner is in appeal. 3. Succinctly stated, the facts according to the

appellant/petitioner are, lands bearing Sy.No.1/1A measuring 5

acres 30 guntas and Sy.No.1/3 measuring 4 acres 31 guntas at

Hosahalli Village, Uttarahalli Hobli, Bangalore South Taluk,

Bangalore (hereinafter referred to as 'lands in question' for

short) were inherited by the petitioner after the demise of his

father Venkatappa S/o. Venkatashamappa. It is stated that he is

in lawful possession of the said lands. That respondent No.5-

Society formed under the Karnataka Co-operative Societies Act,

1959 in the year 1973, sought acquisition of lands for the

purpose of implementing a housing scheme. Accordingly, the

State Government issued acquisition notification for acquiring

inter-alia, lands in question and Preliminary Notification under Section 4(1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (hereinafter

referred to as 'the Act' for the sake of brevity) was issued on

23.09.1988 bearing No.LQ (1) SR 9/88-89 (Annexure-L to the 5 writ petition). Declaration and Final Notification (Annexure-N to

the writ petition) was issued on 11.10.1989 bearing No.RD 183

AQB 85 by respondent No.3. While assailing the said

notifications, the petitioner sought other reliefs. 4. According to the petitioner, respondent

No.5-Society is a bogus Society not functioning in accordance

with law and that the acquisition of lands, including the lands in

question, is with a fraudulent intention and with the aid of

respondent No.6, who acted as a middleman to pursue the

acquisition process with the State Government and with an

intention to defraud the farmers such as petitioner herein. It is

contended that there has been a fraudulent exercise carried out

by respondent No.5-Society with the aid of middlemen and Real

Estate Agents, such as respondent No.6 herein, who, in collusion

with the State Government acquired, inter alia, the lands in

question. That, the State Government had constituted a Three- Man Committee to scrutinize respondent No.5-Society known as

G.V.K.Rao Committee. That as per G.V.K.Rao Committee Report,

there have been several irregularities and illegalities committed

by the Society in acquiring, inter-alia, the lands in question. Therefore, the acquisition notifications were questioned and the

following prayers were sought in the writ petition: execution of any developmental work or erection of
 dwelling houses or amenities or any work within the
 time-limit of three years in terms of sub-sections (4)
 and (5) of Section 41 of the Land Acquisition Act r/w
 Rule 5 of the Land Acquisition Rules, 1973 r/w Section 27 of the Bangalore Development Act, 1976
 and Karnataka Urban Development Act, 1987 as
 agreed to and executed by the 5th Respondent-
 Society in the agreement (Annexure-K) and also
 declare that there is no vesting of lands in question
 and the land are free from acquisitions proceedings,
 in so far as the agricultural lands of the petitioner is
 concerned: v) Issue Writ of Certiorari by quashing
 Annexure-L preliminary notification dated
 23/09/1988 bearing No.LAQ(1)SR.9/88-89 and
 Annexure-N the final notification dated 11/10/1989
 bearing No.RD 183 LQB 85 passed by the 3rd and 2nd
 Respondents respectively and all other subsequent
 proceedings in respect of the lands in question and; vi) Grant such other relief/s as this Hon'ble
 Court deems fit in the circumstances of the case,
 including an order as to costs, in the interest of
 justice and equity." 5. In the aforesaid writ petition, the respondents

appeared and on hearing the parties, learned Single Judge

concluded that the writ petition ought to be dismissed on the

ground that in the earlier W.P.Nos.35685-86/1995 almost

identical contentions were raised and said writ petitions were

dismissed by this Court on the ground of delay and laches. Subsequently, W.P.No.27298/2004 was filed by the petitioner

under the provisions of the Karnataka Scheduled Castes and

Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act, 8 1978 (hereinafter referred to as ' PTCL Act ' for the sake of

convenience). That writ petition was also dismissed and the

matter was taken up in W.A.No.369/2009, which was also

dismissed and subsequently, Special Leave (Civil) Petition

No.10641/2011 had been preferred and the same was also

dismissed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 6. Learned Single Judge further observed that earlier

writ petitions were dismissed on the ground of delay and laches

by order dated 28.01.1997 and without expressing any opinion,

on the documents produced in support of the contentions of

fraud, in any manner. That the present writ petition i.e.,

W.P.No.36564/2012 (out of which, this appeal arises) was

nothing but another round of litigation. Hence, the learned

Single Judge dismissed the writ petition with the following

observations at Paragraph No.7: "7. Though the learned Senior Advocate has
 strongly urged the above contentions drawing
 sustenance from the observations and opinions
 expressed in the above authorities, the grounds
 sought to be urged are merely an enlarged and
 stronger version of the very grounds urged on behalf
 of the petitioner in earlier petitions, the seeming
 nuances sought to be highlighted to demonstrate
 that the petitioner is not precluded from urging the 9 said grounds for consideration anew, especially with
 regard to circumstances that are alleged to have
 been glossed over earlier or may be not presented in
 the right perspective, in the opinion of this Court is
 no justification to entertain the present petition. The
 petitioner is precluded from bringing this petition in
 the face of his earlier challenge, on more than one
 occasion, on similar grounds. The petition is accordingly dismissed." Hence, the petitioner has preferred this appeal. 7. We have heard Sri. Ashok Haranahalli, learned

Senior counsel for the appellant, Sri. S.S.Naganand, learned

Senior counsel for respondent No.5-Society, learned AGA for

respondent Nos.2 to 4, 7, 9 & 10 and learned counsel for

respondent No.8-BDA as well as learned counsel for impleading

applicants, who are stated to be the allottees of respondent

No.5-Society at length and perused the material on record. 8. Sri. Ashok Haranahalli, learned Senior counsel

appearing for the appellant contended, the learned Single Judge

was not right in dismissing the writ petition by merely observing

that the contentions raised by the petitioner were an enlarged

version of the very same contentions raised earlier in 10 W.P.Nos.35685-86/1995 and hence, there was nothing further to

be considered in the matter. He submitted that in the writ

petition filed earlier i.e., in the year 1995, the petitioner had

raised several grounds to assail the acquisition notifications by

contending that there was fraud in the acquisition process. However, learned Single Judge had dismissed the said writ

petitions. Subsequently, the matter was moved "For Being

Spoken To", and certain documents were brought to the notice

of learned Single Judge and they were filed in the open Court but

learned Single Judge by his order dated 11.02.1997 opined that

writ petition was dismissed on the ground of delay and laches

without expressing any opinion on the documents produced in

support of the contention of fraud in any manner. Therefore, the

petitioner had the right to file another writ petition, bringing to

the notice of this Court fraud in the acquisition process and also

the other contentions as they related to the period subsequent to

the acquisition of the lands in question. That learned Single

Judge was not right in rejecting such contentions by holding that

those contentions were raised earlier in W.P.Nos.35685-

86/1995, which was dismissed on the ground of delay and laches

and thereby, dismissing the writ petitions. 9. Learned Senior counsel further contended that this

matter is covered by the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in the case of HMT House Building Co-operative society vs

Syed Khader reported in 1995(2) SCC 677 (HMT House

Building Society) and similarly situated Societies, wherein,

contentions regarding fraud were considered in detail and the

acquisition of lands in those cases were set aside. Learned

Senior counsel submitted that in this case also, the acquisition of

lands in question has to be set aside since the very same

contentions regarding fraud in the acquisition process have been

raised and they ought to have been considered on the precedent

of HMT House Building Society and other similarly placed

Societies. He submitted that learned Single Judge while

dismissing the writ petition has not considered the material

contentions. Therefore, the impugned order is contrary to law

and erroneous. Hence, the same may be set aside and the

appeal may be allowed by granting the reliefs sought in the writ

petitions. 10. In support of his contentions, learned Senior counsel

placed reliance on certain decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court with regard to plea of fraud being raised as contentions

and also judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of

HMT House Building Society and other similarly situated

Societies. Learned Senior counsel sought to elaborate on the

illegalities and fraudulent acts of the Society in the matter of

acquisition of lands by referring to various documents and

submitted that issue of fraud goes to the root of the matter and

if the same is unraveled, the entire acquisition process must be

set aside. That when the fraudulent acts of the Society and the

State Government in the acquisition of lands in question are

brought to the notice of this Court in a petition filed under Article

226 of the Constitution of India, delay cannot be an impediment

for considering such contentions as fraud is obvious in the

acquisition process in the instant case and the same must be

considered seriously and meticulously by this Court. Learned

Senior counsel referred to various acts of commission and

omission on the part of the Society as well as the State

Government in the acquisition of lands in question and

contended that if those are taken into consideration, then the 13 acquisition of lands in the instant case must be set aside. He

further submitted that subsequent to the acquisition of lands,

there has been no development made by respondent No.5-

Society on the said lands and they are not in a position to

progress in any manner. The lands in question are lying vacant

and fallow; not even a single brick has been laid in the lands in

question. When the Society has not achieved the purpose for

which it has been set up i.e., to implement a housing scheme,

then the lands in question must be returned to the petitioner. Learned Senior counsel submitted that learned Single Judge was

not right in dismissing the petition and hence, the said order

may be set aside and the prayers sought for by the petitioner

may be granted by allowing the appeal. Learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellant relied

upon the following decisions in support of his submissions: operative Society (2016) 16 SCC 46

 IX. Secretary, the Karnataka Government Class D

 employees HBCS Vs. Smt. Susheelamma, (2016) 5

 Kar. L. J. 255 (DB)

 X. Sri. Antony Reddy Vs. State of Karnataka, (2019) 2

 Kar.L.R. 629 (DB) and other cases 11. Per contra, learned Senior counsel appearing for

respondent No.5-Society submitted that very filing of the writ

petition by the petitioner is an instance of abuse of process of

this Court. That, this is not the first time petitioner has

approached this Court assailing the acquisition of lands in

question. The petitioner had earlier filed W.P.Nos.35685- 15 86/1995 raising the very same contentions as have been raised

in W.P.No.36564/2012 (out of which, this appeal arises) and

those writ petitions were dismissed on the ground of delay and

laches. Subsequently, the petitioner tried to seek modification of

that order by getting the matter posted "For Being Spoken To". But the petitioner was unsuccessful in getting any relief. The

order passed in W.P.Nos.35685-86/1995 on 28.01.1997 attained

finality as there was no appeal filed against the said order. Even

while considering the matter at the stage of "For Being Spoken

To" on 11.02.1997, there was no modification of the order dated

28.01.1997. The furnishing of certain documents by the

petitioner in support of his contention regarding fraud in the

acquisition process did not yield any result before this Court. Subsequently, the petitioner filed W.P.No.27298/2004 by

contending that the acquisition process was in violation of Section 4 of the PTCL Act. That writ petition was also dismissed. Writ Appeal filed by the petitioner was also dismissed and the

matter has attained finality as the Hon'ble Supreme Court has

also dismissed the Special Leave Petition filed by the petitioner

against the order passed in Writ Appeal by this Court. 12. Learned Senior counsel, appearing for respondent

No.5-Society submitted, the petitioner remained silent for

several years and subsequently, in the year 2012 filed

W.P.No.36564/2012 (out of which, this appeal arises) once again

raising the very same contentions raised in W.P.Nos.35685-

86/1995 which was dismissed on the ground of delay and laches. The learned Single Judge has rightly dismissed the said writ

petition by considering that the contentions raised earlier were

raised once again and that the earlier writ petitions namely

W.P.Nos.35685-86/1995 had been dismissed on the ground of

delay and laches. Therefore, the petitioner could not have

approached this Court once again raising similar contentions. He

contended that before considering the writ petition on the

question of fraud and on merits, this Court may consider as to

whether writ petition was at all maintainable by considering the

aspect of delay and laches in filing the writ petition. He further

contended that the principles of constructive res judicata would

also apply to the case on hand. In support of his contentions,

learned Senior counsel has relied upon certain decisions of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court. 13. Learned Senior counsel contended that when the

contentions raised by the petitioner herein in W.P.Nos.35685-

86/1995 were not considered by this Court and those writ

petitions were dismissed on the ground of delay and laches,

which order has attained finality, there was no scope for once

again raising the very same contentions by filing another writ

petition as late as in the year 2012. He further submitted that

the principles laid down in Order II Rule 2 of the Code of Civil

Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ) would also apply to the instant case as

the petitioner filed W.P.No.27298/2004 assailing the fact that

acquisition of lands in question was hit by Section 4 of the PTCL

Act. In that writ petition also, there was no challenge raised to

the acquisition notifications but other reliefs were sought for in

that writ petition. Learned Senior counsel lastly contended that

filing of writ petition for the third time by the petitioner in this

case is an instance of abuse of process of this Court and abuse

of law. Hence, writ appeal may be dismissed with heavy cost. 14. In support of his contention, learned Senior counsel

has compared the grounds raised in the W.P.Nos.35685-86/1995

and grounds raised in W.P.No.36564/2012 (out of which, this

appeal arises) and submitted that there are no grounds available

for the petitioner so as to give a new cause of action to file a writ

petition. Hence, the appeal may be dismissed. 15. Learned Senior counsel for respondent No.5-Society

also contended that there was no fraud in the acquisition process

as there was a consent award made in respect of the lands in

question. Appellant's father had sought for compensation and

pursuant to the consent award, compensation has been paid. After receipt of compensation, the petitioner cannot contend that

there was fraud in the acquisition process. 16. He also submitted that the Society had in fact filed

O.S.No.526/1997 for the relief of permanent injunction against

the petitioner. The said suit was decreed on 27.03.1997. The

said decree has attained finality. 17. Concluding his submissions, learned Senior counsel

for respondent No.5-Society contended that there is no element

of fraud in the acquisition process and at any rate, the petitioner

is estopped from raising those contentions at this belated point

of time. That the earlier writ petition has been dismissed on the

ground of delay and laches as the same has been hit by

principles of res judicata and Order II Rule 2 of CPC . Hence, the

writ appeal may be dismissed with heavy cost. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondent No. 5 - Society relied upon the following judgments in support of his

submissions: 18. Learned AGA appearing for respondent Nos.1 to 4, 7,

9 and 10 supported the arguments of learned Senior counsel

appearing for respondent No.5-Society. 19. Learned counsel appearing for respondent No.8-BDA

also contended that there is no merit in this appeal. At any rate,

the petitioner cannot have any grievance as to what action has

been taken or not taken by the BDA subsequent to acquisition

process. That once the acquisition process was completed, the

lands stood vested with the State and the same were handed

over to the Society. Respondent No.5-Society has sought for

approval and release of the plan and it has relinquished certain

extent of lands towards civic amenities sites and towards road to

the BDA. The matter is at the stage of consideration of request

made by the Society for approval and release of plan. However,

litigations were filed by the persons such as petitioner herein

from time to time and since certain other legal formalities ought

to be complied with, the same has not yet resulted in a formal

order for approval and release of plan being made by the BDA. Learned counsel appearing for the BDA further submitted that 21 the Society has to pay betterment charges and the same has not

yet been tendered by the Society. Therefore, plan sought for is

not released to the Society by the BDA. He however submitted

that these contentions cannot be raised by the petitioner as it is

a matter between the Society and the BDA and the petitioner

can have no say in the matter. He therefore submitted that there

is no merit in the appeal and the same may be dismissed. 20. Sri. Ajay Kumar Patil, who has filed applications

(I.A.Nos.2/2017 and 3/2017) on behalf of certain allottees of

lands from respondent No.5-Society submitted that the allottees

would be necessary parties to this proceeding. That the

petitioner has filed the writ petition without arraying the allottees

as respondents and if adverse findings are to be made by this

Court in this appeal, the same would have a deleterious effect on

the allottees and therefore, they may also have say in this

matter. He submitted that the applications for impleadment may

be considered and allowed and the applicants may be heard on

merits. In his further submissions, learned counsel for

impleading applicants submitted that when the allottees have

been put in possession of their respective sites by the Society, 22 the petitioner ought to have impleaded them. It may be that by

the order of learned Single Judge, the allottees have not been

affected as such, but if this Court is to allow the writ petition,

then the applicants have to be heard in detail after impleading

them. 21. By way of reply, learned Senior counsel appearing

for the appellant reiterated his submissions and contended that

dismissal of earlier writ petitions namely W.P.Nos.35685-

86/1995, inter alia, on the ground of delay would not come in

the way of considering this matter on merits. He further

submitted that the principles of res judicata and constructive res

judicata would not apply to the present case. That several new

grounds have been raised which have come to the notice of the

petitioner subsequent to the disposal of the earlier writ petition

and therefore, the matter has to be considered on merits. In this

regard, learned Senior counsel has drawn our attention to

several documents that have been filed and contended that

consideration of those documents would reveal that respondent

No.5-Society is a bogus Society and that there are members,

who are not ex-servicemen as per the rules of the Society. That 23 while acquiring the land, the provisions contained in chapter VII

of the Act have not been followed. There have been several

communications between the Society and the State and vice

versa, as well as the Society and the BDA and vice versa which

would reveal that the Society has not been able to implement

the Housing scheme in respect of lands in question and hence,

purpose of acquisition has not been achieved. Therefore, reliefs

sought for by the petitioner in the writ petition may be granted

and lands in question may be returned to the petitioner. Hence,

he contended that the impugned order may be set aside and the

writ petition may be allowed. 22. Having heard the learned counsel for respective

parties, following point would arise for our consideration: 23. It is not in dispute that the lands in question along

with other lands were subject matter of acquisition initiated by 24 the State Government and acquisition notifications under Section

4 (1) of the Act bearing No No.LQ (1) SR 9/88-89 dated

23.09.1988 (Annexure-L) i.e., Preliminary Notification followed

by declaration and Final Notification dated 11.10.1989 bearing

No.RD 183 AQB 85 (Annexure-N), were issued by respondent

No.3. 24. According to the respondents including respondent

Nos.5-Society, there was a consent award dated 26.03.1990 in

respect of lands in question. The possession of the lands in

question was taken on 23.01.1991 and compensation was paid

to the Khatedar i.e, the father of the petitioner. That the

acquisition of lands has been in accordance with law and that

there is no infirmity in the same is the case of respondent No.5-

Society. On the other hand, petitioner has assailed the

acquisition process by contending that it was fraudulent and that

process of acquisition has not been achieved. Therefore, the

petitioner who filed W.P.No.36564/2012 (out of which, this

appeal arises) sought other reliefs, which according to the

petitioner, ought to be granted. 25. In this regard, learned Senior counsel for respondent

No.5-Society pointed out that if the acquisition notifications are

not to be interfered with by this Court, then nothing would

survive in the writ petition and as no other relief would lie and

could be granted, writ petition would have to be dismissed by

confirming the order of the learned Single Judge by dismissing

the writ appeal also. 26. In the above context, our attention was drawn to the

pleadings and orders passed in the earlier litigations filed by the

petitioner herein. But, before considering the same, at this

stage, it would be useful to consider the orders passed by this

Court in the earlier writ petition filed by the petitioner therein. The prayers sought in these aforesaid writ petitions were

as under: ii. Issue a writ, order or direction to for bear
 the respondents from enforcing Annexure - A
 bearing No. LAQ(1) SR.9/88-89 dated 23.9.88 and
 Annexure - B bearing No. RD 183 AQB 85 dated
 11.10.1989 against the petitioners in the interest of
 justice and equity; iii. Grant such other relief/s as this Hon'ble
 Court deems fit in the circumstances of the case,
 including an order as to costs, in the interest of
 justice and equity. The aforesaid writ petitions were dismissed by order dated

28.01.1997, after considering the statement of objections filed

therein and after hearing learned counsel for the respective

parties. In paragraph No.10, it was observed as under: After dismissal of the said writ petitions, the matter was

moved by the petitioner "For Being Spoken To" on 11.02.1997. On the said date, the learned Single Judge who dismissed the

writ petition recorded as follows: The order in the aforesaid writ petitions has attained

finality. (b) W.P.No.27298/2004: The learned counsel for the
 petitioner was unable to justify his
 contention as to how the proceedings
 under PTCL Act are maintainable in
 view of the acquisition of the land by
 the State themselves. When the State
 has acquired the land that has been
 granted to the petitioner, the question
 of seeking restoration of the land
 would not arise for consideration at
 all. The petitioner is unable to defend
 his submission on this issue. The
 contentions therefore that the
 impugned order is bad in law 30 notwithstanding the acquisition
 proceedings is unsustainable. 7. Both the authorities have considered
 the plea of the petitioner vis-à-vis the
 acquisition of the lands. They have rightly
 come to the conclusion that the provisions
 of the Act would not be applicable in the
 event of the lands having been acquired by
 the State. Therefore, I do not find any error
 in the order passed by both the authorities
 that call for any interference. 8. In the writ petition challenging the
 acquisition, the petitioner has acquiesced in
 the land acquisition proceedings by either
 not raising any objection or contending that
 the acquisition proceedings are bad. The
 petitioner therefore cannot contend to the
 contrary in these proceedings. 9. For the aforesaid reasons, the petition
 being devoid of merit, is rejected. No
 costs." (c) W.A.No.369/2009: Except the partition among the members
of the family or testamentary disposition
almost all transactions such as sale, gift,
exchange, mortgage, charges, agreement to
sell, exchange, mortgage or lease or any
other transaction are brought within the
definition of the word 'Transfer'. As
statement of objects enunciates, affluent
and powerful sections of the society by
exploiting the ignorance and poverty of the
grantee of the granted land belonging to
scheduled castes or scheduled tribes were
deprived of their right to valuable land for a
nominal consideration or for no
consideration at all. It is to remedy such
mischief this law was enacted. Therefore it
is clear the transactions referred to within
the definition of 'transfer' or transaction
which are inter vivos i.e., between the
parties. It is a voluntary act by which right
of immovable property is transferred to
another person for nominal or no
consideration. This definition of the work
'transfer' do not encompass compulsory
acquisition of land for a public purpose by
the State on payment of compensation at
the prevailing market value of the land.
Therefore the legislature has advisedly not 32 included its compulsory acquisition within
the definition of 'transfer'. Therefore the Act
has no application to compulsory acquisition
of land, even though granted land belonging
to scheduled castes or scheduled tribes. 8. It was argued that the word 'any other
transaction' includes compulsory acquisition
and the doctrine of ejusdem generis rule is
attracted. To invoke the application of the
ejusdem generis rule there must be distinct
genus or category. The specific words must
apply not to different object of widely
differing character but to something which
can be called a class or kind of objects.
Where this is lacking, the rule cannot apply.
The ejusdem generis rule is often useful or
convenient, but it is merely a rule of
construction, not rule of law. Therefore
when the word 'transfer' is defined and
instances given there are in the nature of
transaction which inter vivos and voluntary
transfer the work "any other transaction" 9. It was next contended that as the
agreement of sale came into existence 33 subsequent to the Act came into force, and
permission of the Government is required,
without which acquisition would be void.
The said contention has no application to
compulsory acquisition. Secondly, the
Acquiring Authority is the very Government.
More importantly the land is acquired and
the grantee is paid compensation in terms
of the Land Acquisition Act after
adjudicating the market value of the land.
Therefore the grantee of the land is not put
to any loss, it is not an exploitation of the
grantee. Therefore there is no substance in
the said contention. 10. In fact the wording in Section 4(1) of
the Act makes it clear that after alienation is
made in contravention of the terms of the
grant or the law providing for such grant or
sub-section (2) of Section 4 , the transferee
shall be null and void and no right, title or
interest in such land shall be conveyed or
which deem to be conveyed by such
transfer. Therefore the intention of the
legislature is explicit. What is sought to be
declared as void is a conveyance or a
deemed conveyance. In the case of
compulsory acquisition there is no
conveyance as the State exercises its power
of acquiring land and at the end of the
acquisition proceedings the land vests with
the Government by operation of law and not
by any conveyance. Though learned counsel
for the appellant has cited large number of
judgments on various legal principles, they
have no application to the case on hand. In
these circumstances we do not see any
merit in this appeal. Accordingly it is
dismissed." (d) SLP No.10641/2011. Petitioner thereafter filed the Special Leave Petition

No.10641/2011 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. By order

dated 25.04.2011, the said Special Leave Petition was dismissed. (e) O.S.No.526/1997: operative Societies Act for the purpose of
aims and objectives of the Society. The
concerned paintiff's Society approached the
State Government for the proclamation of
lands for allotments for formation of
Layouts and Sites to the members of the
Society. Accordingly the Government
initiated proceedings as per law and issued
Notification for Acquisition of Lands in
various Survey Numbers of Hosahalli
village. The concerned Government also
acquired defendants land to an extent of 11
Acres 33 guntas, for which defendants were
having no objection and also received the
award amount passed by concerned
authority. Subsequently just to knock-off
the suit schedule property defendants
challenge the said Acquisition Proceedings
before Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka by
filing Writ Petition and the same was
dismissed. In support of his case he has
produced certified copy of the letter issued 36 by concerned Revenue Department in
favour of plaintiff as per Ex.P.1. The
Notification issued by the Land
Development Officer is as per Ex.P.2. The
Certified copy of the Award passed by
concerned authority in respect of suit
schedule Survey Number is as per Ex.P3,
Ex.P4 to Ex.P6 are the 3 documents
pertaining to award issued by concerned
authority. He has also produced copy of the
statement made by one Srinivas, who is a
defendant in this suit to concerned Land
Acquisition Officer. PW.1 has also produced
Order passed by concerned Land Acquisition
Officer with regard to handing over the land
to the plaintiff's Society as per Ex.P.7. One
more letter in this regard is as per Ex.P.8. 6
RTC Extracts which is as per Ex.P.9 to
Ex.P.14. The oral and documentary
evidence produced by the plaintiff
substantiates the case of the plaintiff. In the
absence of any defence on behalf of the
defendants, there is no reason to disbelieve
the documents produced by the plaintiff.
Under said circumstances it appears that
by remaining absent defendants have
indirectly admitted the case of the plaintiff.
Further Writ Petition filed by the defendants
questioning the said Acquisition by plaintiff's
Society is also dismissed. View from any
angle plaintiff is entitled for the relief
claimed. Accordingly I have answered Point
No.1 in the Affirmative. 9. Point No.2: In view of my answer to
point No.1 in the Affirmative, I proceed to
pass the following: The aforesaid matter was filed by Sri. Thimmaiah who

was none other than the uncle of petitioner and brother of his

father, assailing the preliminary and final notifications in

respect of the very same land. The same was dismissed by

order dated 07.09.1993 and the relevant portion of the said

order reads as under: 29. We have perused the pleadings in this case. Learned

senior counsel appearing for the appellant drew our attention

to the facts and contentions raised in the writ petition and as

to why the matter would have to be reconsidered on merits,

despite the otherside objecting to consideration of the case on

merits on the ground of delay and laches in filing the writ

petition and also on the ground of res judicata and

constructive res judicata as well as on the basis of principles

stated in Order II Rule 2 of CPC . In other words, learned

senior counsel appearing for the respondent - Society

contended that the matter cannot be heard on merits in view 39 of the aforesaid legal grounds contended by the respondent - Society. In this regard a Table has been furnished by the learned

 counsel for respondent No. 5 - Society in support of the

 submission that the contentions raised in Writ Petition No.

 36564/2012 are almost identical to the contentions that were

 raised in W.P. No. 35685-86/1995. We have perused the same

 and it is extracted as under: notifications under Section 4 and
 Page No. -HMT case was relied on at
 6 of the Act respectively are
 662 page 691 at Para 18 and
 opposed to public policy and
 Para 9 also at the hearing, as per
 therefore cannot be allowed to
 Para 3 at Page 699-700. stand, as held by the Division
 The Society has entered into
 Bench of the Hon'ble High Court
 an agreement in the year
 (ILR 1991 KAR 2248) affirmed by
 1983 and on
 the Supreme Court(AIR 1994 SC
 B.L.Lakshmikatha to acquire
 2244). falsely included in the draft award
 at the instance of the real estate
 agent and award-compensation
 was also withdrawn and siphoned
 off by the agent practicing fraud 43 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 on the Petitioner. Page No. 85- acquisition proceedings practicing
 fraud, the Government failed to
 exercise its power of eminent 44 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 domain to call for records from
Page No. 86 the 4th Respondent Spl. LAO for
Para 63 the purpose of stratifying itself as
(Continued) to the legality or propriety of any
 finding or order passed as to
 regularity of such proceedings as
 mandated under Section 15-A of
 the LA Act. Page No. 86- The very name of the Society as Page No. Though the name of the
87 could be seen is misleading and is 654 Para 4 society gives an impression
Para -64 intended to serve as cloak for the and that it is a society promoted
 land grabbers and indulged in for the benefit of Ex-
 real estate business. Though the Page 681 servicemen, in fact it is not
 name of the Society gives Para No.5. promoted either by the Ex-
 impression that is a society servicemen or their behalf.
 promoted for the benefits of ex- On the other hand to play a
 servicemen who served the fraud on the general public
 nation, in fact, it is not promoted as also to abuse and misuse
 either by the ex-servicemen or the process of law, the
 for their benefit. Society has promoted in this
 name by land grabbers with
 the object of carrying out
 None of its members are residing their--- and employees the
 in the area of operational government ministry
 jurisdiction of any survey particularly for acquisition of
 numbers of Hosahalli as land belonging to innocent 45 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 mentioned in the Bye law, in fact, farmers and to personally
Page No. 86- those survey numbers are aggrandize themselves by
87 continued to be an agricultural selling sites in the name of
Para -64 lands, as observed by the Co- the Society.
(continued) operative Audit Department. Page No. 87- The registration of the society is Page No. The Society is a registered
89 in contravention of Section 6(d) 664 under the Karnataka Co-
Para 65 of the KCS Act, wherein Operative Societies Act stipulated that the members of Para-12 1959. Further under Section
 the Society should be of the same and 7 any Co-operative society
 CLASS and pursue the SAME can be registered only if the
 OCCUPATION residing in the AT page object of the proposed
 same jurisdiction. 681 at Society is in accordance with
 Para-5 Section 4 of the Act. Under
 Section 4, it is only such of
 the Societies whose object is
 the promotion of economic
 interest of general welfare of
 its members or the public in
 accordance with the CO- the entire transaction of the land
 acquisition is fraud on power and
 the result of collusion between The impugned proceedings
 the men-in-power, bureaucracy Page No. are therefore colourable
 and the profit mongering 671 exercise of power and are
 fraudulent Societies like the 5th not intended for public
 Respondent. The impugned 12th Line purpose, but for extraneous
 acquisition proceedings are fraud in Para 20 condsiderations mentioned
 on power which have resulted in above. The impugned
 an invidious discrimination (continued) acquisition proceedings are
 against the petitioners violating fraud on power which have
 the fundamental rights resulted in an invidious
 guaranteed under Arts 14, 19(g) discrimination against the
 and 300-A of the Constitution of Petitioners violating the
 India. rights guaranteed to them
 under Articles 14 of the
 Constitution of India. Page No. 90 The Petitioner is a small holder Page No. The petitioners are small
Para 67 and his large numbers of joint 671 holders. They and large
 family members are entirely number of their dependants
 dependant on the petitioner Para 21 are entirely dependant on
 schedule lands for their the petition schedule land 47 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 livelihood. They have no other for their livelihood. They
Page No. 90 source of livelihood..... thus, have no other sources of
Para 67 violated the fundamental rights livelihood. In the
(Continued) guaranteed under Art 21 of the circumstances, the impugned
 Constitution of India. proceedings have resulted in
 deprivation of their only
 sources of livelihood to the
 petitioners. Thus violated
 the rights guaranteed to
 them under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India. Page No. 90- Fraud is distinctly pleaded and Page No. The petitioners were totally
91 proved.... And where Court is 668-669 unaware of the fraud
Para-68 misled by party or the Court itself practiced on them in getting
 commits a mistake which the land acquisition
 prejudices a party, the court has proceedings initiated and
 the inherent power to recall its Para -15 completed in respect of the
 order" as held by the Apex Court schedule land by the 4th
 [ AIR 2000 SC 1165/ AIR 1994 Respondent. They were also
 SC 853/ AIR 1996 SC 872/(2011) unaware that the 4th
 10 SCC 608], ( 2003) 8 SCC Respondent Society was one 319). of the Societies in respect of
 which the G.V.K. Rao
 committee had conducted
 any enquiry much less were 48 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 they aware of the contents
(continued) (continued) of the said enquiry report. It
 was only after the
 petitioners learnt about the
 decision of the Supreme
 court in HMT HBCS vs. Syed
 Khader and other that the
 petitioners suspected foul
 play and fraud against them
 also by the 4th Respondent
 Society. Page No. 92- Page No. After having learnt about
93 There is no delay in this case. 669 these facts for the first time
Para -70 Where notification for land in September 1995, they
 acquisition was found to be result Para 15 have immediately rushed to
 of colourable exercise of this Hon'ble Court without
 jurisdiction, writ petition cannot any delay or lahes on their
 be rejected on the ground of part. Further, in view of the
 delay alone-Delay by itself is not magnitude and nature of
 absolute bar for exercise of fraud practiced against the
 jurisdiction under Art 226 of the petitioner of which the
 Constitution as held by the Petitioner learnt only
 Division Bench of this Hon'ble recently, the entire
 Court [1999(4) KAR LJ 143 (DB) ]. acquisition proceedings are
 As held by the Supreme Court vitiated and they it is just 49 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
Page No. 92- that the acquisition of land ' by (continued) and necessary to treat these
93 various Societies including writ Petitions as having been
Para -70 appellant-society actuated with presented in time and is not
(Continued) mala fide and not for bona fide suffering from any delay or
 purpose - Ground of delay and laches on the Petitioners. transferred to private parties and
 corporate entities- Delay/ Laches -
 Writ Petition challenging acquisition
 after 12 years does not bar. landowners, as held recently by the
 Apex Court (2011) 10 SCC 608],
 (2003) 8 SCC 319) which are
 squarely applicable to the facts of
 the present case in all fours and
 it is necessary that the principles
 of stare decisis be followed in 50 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 view of Art 141 of the
 Constitution of India. Page No.93. The members in the Respondent Page No. The impugned proceedings
Para-71 Society as on the cut-off date 670 initiated by Annexure-A
 i.e., on 30.06.1984 is only 179 culminating in the final
 members. Even if the land is Para 19 notification as per
 required for them is sufficient Annexure-B are initiated by
 only 9 acres of land to be fraud practiced on the
 acquired as at the dimension of petitioners by the 4th
 30x40 sital area (with all other respondent-society by
 civil amenities) which works put engaging a middleman and
 to 9 acres x 20 sites per acre securing the acquisition by
 =180 sites. The suggestion to spending huge sums of
 acquire lands of 42 acres and 14 money. The said
 guntas in again illegal and not proceedings are therefore a
 sustainable, tantamount to (continued) nullity in law and are liable
Page No.93. encourage the real estate agent to be set aside.
Para-71 who is middlemen or go-getter in
(Continued) this case and the Respondent
 Society for diversification of lands
 do to their real estate business. Page No. 94 The Petitioner is continued to be Page 685- They are in possession of
Para - 72 in possession of the lands in 686 at the land and carrying on the
 question under the protest of Para No. agricultural operation... Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 The BDA has never issued the The petitioner Produced the
Page No. 94 work order to alter the nature of Page 685 letter dated: 02.11.95
Para - 72 the agricultural lands in question Para No.10 issued by BDA stating that it
(Continued) to form layout or approved the has not sanctioned the
 same by releasing sites till date. layout plan nor it has issued
 the work order. Non approval of the genuine site- less membership lists amounts to
 non-approval of the housing
 scheme in this case, as held by
 the Apex Court recently. The BDA
 cannot issue work order to alter
 the character of the land in
 question as there is no 'housing
 scheme' and the 'genuine
 membership' approved by the
 Government and it had no power
 under Section 27 of the BDA Act
 to issue the same at this belated
 stage after lapse of considerable
 time in executing the invalid
 proposed draft layout plan of the
 Respondent Society, as held by
 the Apex Court very recently. -------- Page No. 94 directions issued in the year 1993
Para - 72 by Government under Section 65
(Continued) of the BDA Act fixing time- sites, verification of membership,
 execution of relinquishment of
 roads, CA site, etc., in
 accordance with law. The Bruhat Bengaluru
 Mahanagara Palike has also
 resisted sanctioning the layout
 plan in favour of the Respondent- Society. As per Section 32(7) r/w
 32(1) of the BDA Act no person
 shall form a layout or make any
 new private street without the
 express sanction in writing of the
 authority and where such
 extension lies within the local
 limits of the BBMP, the authority
 shall not sanction the formation
 of such layout without
 concurrence of the BBMP. Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
Page No. 95- The Registrar of Co-operative
96 Societies had issued several
Para-73 directions in the interest of public
 as mandate under Section 30-B
 of the KCS Act, prohibiting the
 Respondent- Society from
 allotting any site or registering
 the same in favour of any person
 till the genuine membership is
 verified and approved. (continued) within which and the conditions
 on which the work shall be
 executed shall not exceed three
 years from the date of transfer of
 the land to the 5th Respondent- society as prescribed under Rule
 5 of the Land Acquisition Rules
 1973. The said time limit was
 further re-fixed to 35 weeks by a
 Government order dated: 25.09.1993 (Annexure-Z8) under
 sub rule (iii) of Rule 5 of the Land
 Acquisition Rules 1973 r/w Section 65 of the BDA Act,
 however, the said statutory
 period of time-limit was lapsed on
 08.11.1994. There is no legal
 impediment in whatsoever
 manner on the 5th Respondent - Respondent-Society, on the other
 hand, the 7th Respondent- Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
Page No. Registrar of Co-operative
98-99 Societies has also not yet verified
Para-74 and approved the site -less
(Continued) genuine membership to allot the
 sites till date. Page No.99- The 5th Respondent is a bogus Page No. Though the name of the
100 Society misusing the very name 654 society gives an impression
Para 75 of the 'Ex servicemen', consisted Para-4 that it is a society promoted
 of well-to-do members who could and for the benefit of Ex-
 afford to construct houses by Page.678 servicemen, in fact it is not
 themselves and acquiring only Para-2 promoted either by the Ex-
 the lands of the poor small servicemen or their behalf. Page No.99- authorities. The transaction by
100 the society is in utter violation of Page No. The housing scheme, as
Para -75 30B directions. 662-664 contemplated by Section 3 (f)
(Continued) Para-10 (vi) shall be such housing
 scheme which shall serve
 maximum number of
 members of the society and
 such housing scheme should
 be useful to the public. In the
 instant case, there is no prior
 approval of the housing
 scheme within the meaning
 of Section 3 (f) (vi) of the
 L.A.Act and therefore the
 acquisition cannot be held to
 be for the public purpose. Page No. There is no vesting of lands in Page No. It is necessary to mention here

101-102 question as the petitioner is in 666 that the lands in question are

 actual, peaceful & physical in possession of the
Para 75-A
 possession of the lands in Para- 13 Petitioners, though the

 question. respondents appear to have
 prepared documents to have
 taken over possession and
 made it over to the
 Respondent Society, but as a 58 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 matter of fact, the petitioners

Page No. continued to be in possession
 and cultivation on the schedule
101-102
 lands. Para 75-A
(continued)

Page No. It is well settled principle of law
103-105 that the dismissal of earlier writ
 petition on the ground of delay
 and laches or availability of
Para -76
 alternative remedy or dismissal of
 special leave petition on limine
 without expressing any opinion
 by a speaking order on the
 fraudulent transactions, such a
 dismissal would not constitute a
 bar of res judicata to a
 subsequent petition on the same
 cause of action or on different
 cause of action as held by the
 Apex Court in catena of decisions. Even otherwise, it is submitted
 that the (1) cause of challenging
 the acquisition as well as on he 59 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 other alternative remedy and (2)

Page No. the cause of the challenging the
103-105 fraud in the proceedings when it
 comes to notice of the petitioner
 as well as challenging
Para -76
 subsequently misusing or
(continued)
 diversification of the acquired
 lands for commercial venture, are
 not one and the same but they
 entirely different issues and
 hence this writ petition on the
 following grounds: Page No.
103-105 2. The undertaking Executed
 in a Bond by the
 Respondent- Society to
Para -76
 follow Government
(continued)
 Orders/Directives and in
 case of any breach, the
 Government is competent
 to resume the lands, as
 such, the lands in question
 liable for -resumption. 3. The prohibition imposed on
 the Respondent-Society by
 the Government not to
 allot any sites to its
 members till its genuine
 membership is verified and
 approved and it is proved
 that there are no genuine It is necessary to mention
 eligible members for Page No. here that the lands in
 allotment of sites. 666 question are in possession of
 the petitioners, though the 4. The deliberate infraction Para-13 respondents appear to have
 and violations of the prepared documents to have 61 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 Directives/Orders and taken over possession and

Page No. Prohibition imposed on the made it over to the

103-105 Respondent - Society by Respondent Society, but as a
 the Government, illegal matter of fact, the petitioners
 use of acquired land by continued to be in possession
Para -76
 misusing and and cultivation on the
(continued)
 diversification of purpose schedule lands. servicemen/outsiders as 1823. It is also necessary to
 members in the Society is strictly mention here that under the
 prohibited. bye-law of the Society, the
 The members of the Society are Jurisdiction of the Society is
 also member in other societies confined to Jayamahal,
 and got site allotment. The Munireddy Palya,
 Society having dual membership Matadhahalli, Ganganagar,
 that apart the family members Hebbal area of Bengaluru
 owning more than one site, City. However all the
 houses and bunglows and members and even the 63 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
Page No. therefore, their genuine eligible members of the Committee

105-107 site-less membership list for site management are persons

Para- 77 allotment is not yet got verified residing outside the
 and approved by the jurisdiction of the Society.
(continued)
 Registrar/Government. Further, even the lands,
 proposed to be acquired for
 The Ex-servicemen members are the benefit of the Society are
 not more than 50 in the Society not within the jurisdiction of
 as pointed by the GVK Rao the Society.
 Committee and other nominal or
 associated members are not The 1st Respondent appointed
 eligible for allotment of sites. In Page a committee under the
 fact GVK Rao Committee No.661 Chairmanship of MR. (continued) stated to have conducted a
 thorough enquiry and
 submitted report. However, 64 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
 till this day report has not

Page No. been published. So far as

105-107 the 4th Respondent Society is
 concerned, the Petitioners
Para- 77
 reliably understand and
(continued)
 believe it to be true that the
 said Committee has
 submitted the its report after
 recording the statement of
 one Shivashankar. Page No. All the Respondents by colluding
110 each other by one way or other

Para -78 have cheated the petitioner with
 an ulterior motive even though
 the Hon'ble High Court and
 Hon'ble Supreme Court has
 directed the authorities to drop
 the acquisition proceedings to the
 respective landlords irrespective
 of the fact whether they had
 challenged the acquisition of their
 lands or not. Respondents authority to stop the 65 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
Page No. further proceedings of the

110 acquisition including the Cabinet

Para -78 of the State Government,
 intentionally the authorities have
(continued)
 continued the further proceedings
 of the acquisition in respect of the
 land in question which is illegal,
 arbitrary and fraudulent attitude,
 hence it is just and necessary to
 direct all the Respondents to stop
 all further proceedings of the
 acquisition in respect of the lands
 in question which is illegal,
 arbitrary and fraudulent attitude. that where a petition under Article
 226 is dismissed in limine without a
 speaking order. Such a dismissal
 would not constitute a bar of res
 judicata to subsequent Petition on
 the same cause of action. Page No. The 10th Respondent without his
112 jurisdiction and without having
Para 81 any right changed the Khatha in 67 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
Page No. the name of the 5th Respondent in
112 respect of the land in question
Para 81 subsequently on the fraudulent
(continued) instigation of the 6th Respondent. authorities in a right time, even (continued)
 then the Respondents have not
 given any respect to the orders of
 the Courts and continued with 70 Grounds Grounds raised in Grounds Grounds raised in
Page No W.P.No.36564/2012, filed by Page No. W.P.No.35685-86/1995
And Para in Srinivasaiah (Appellant) and Para Filed by Mohan Kumar
Vol.No.1 (Present Writ Petition out of in & Srinivasaiah
 which this appeal arises)
 Vol.No.3 (Appellant herein)
 (Earlier writ petition)
Page No. their fraudulent illegal activities in
113-114 respect of the land in question
 and on the lands of other farmers
Para-85 without stopping the further
(continued) proceedings of he acquisition
 which leads to take away the
 entire lives of the petitioner and
 other farmers. 30. Learned counsel for the appellant has also furnished a

 table to contend that new points/grounds were raised in W.P.

 No. 36564/2012 which were not raised in the earlier writ petition

 and therefore, the same may be taken into consideration for

 allowing the appeal. The same reads as under: 09.11.1992 Possession Physical possession is with the
 handed over to appellant, no handing over of
 the society possession in the eye of law. 07.11.1992 The BDA has sent The communicated dated
& a communication 05.12.1992 (pl see Annex-G of
05.12.1992 to the society WP 40445/2014 infra), imposing
 that has resolved various conditions by the BDA as
 to approve the prescribed u/s 32 of the BDA, out
 layout plan in its of which one of the condition is to
 meeting dated furnishing NOC from
 07.11.1992 Co-operation department for
 having verified the genuine
 membership to release the sites,
 enable them to approve the
 layout plan but not yet
 furnished the information
 sought for, hence acquisition
 lapsed. It is settled principle of the law
 that BDA cannot approve the
 layout plan u/s 32 of the BDA in 74 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 the absence of 'housing scheme'
 approved by the Govt as held in
 the case of Bangalore City
 HBCS v State of Karnataka
 (2012) 3 SCC 727 para 75 to 79. In fact, the BDA has not yet
 approved the layout plan and not
 yet issued the work order to alter
 the nature of the land. (Pl Annexure-Z:21 (page- 489), Z:26. (page-523), Z:33
 (page-565), Z:39 (page-628)
 Similarly, the genuine members
 eligible for allotment of sites has
 not yet been verified and
 approved by the Govt. (Pl. see
 Annex-Z:12 (page-437), Z:20
 (page-487), Z:25 (page-521),
 Z:28 (page-528), Z:40 (page- 629). 23.02.2012 The Society has The contention is misleading. The
 executed the word 'resolved to approve', as
 Relinquishment stated in the letter dated
 Deed in favour of 05.12.1992 indicates only to
 the BDA as per process the application, subject to
 directions of the fulfilling all the conditions
 BDA imposed therein u/s 32 of the 75 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5 BDA Act and does not mean the
 approval of the layout plan. The
 Relinquishment Deed is invalid in
 the eye of law, got executed in
 collusion by practicing fraud just
 to circumvent the lapsing of
 acquisition, as the acquisition
 lapsed for not utilizing land for
 three decades and also violating S.32 of the BDA Act. Respondent-5 suppressed the
 material fact that they have filed
 WP No.40445/2014 against BDA
 seeking direction to approve the
 layout plan, where the
 acquisition was lapsed by
 efflux time for not utilizing
 land more than three decades. Injunction in OS Venkatappa S/o Huccavenkatappa
 No.293/1988 was who was set up by the 5th and 6th
 withdrawn. This respondents to impersonate the
 suit was filed father of the appellant and got
 by the father of withdrawn the case on 31.3.1991
 the appellant in by filing memo since matter
 respect of the settled out of court by paying
 land bearing compensation. (Pl see the
 No.1/1-A and additional documents
 1/3. submitted on 07.07.2019
 page-10 and 16- to 19). practicing fraud and siphoned off
 (Annex-Z:4 (page-381), Z:5
 (page-384), GPA not executed
 either by this father or by the
 appellant (Annex-Z:11 (page- 432), Z:13 (page-439). It is
 clear that compensation has not
 been paid to the appellant herein. This writ petition affect the legal right/claim of the
 was filed by Mr. petitioner/appellant herein.
 Thimmaiah, the However, in the said WP, vide
 paternal under of para-5 observed thus; The above observation, is clearly
 shows that the uncle of the
 appellant or the appellant herein
 are not aware of the fraud
 practiced by the respondents. lands in question appellant herein as explained in
 was dismissed. the preceding paragraph supra.
 This writ petition 79 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 was filed by the Further it is false and misleading
 present appellant that 1st petitioner is a brother of
 and his brother the 2nd petitioner therein and he
 taking up several is not brother of the appellant.
 contentions The 1st petitioner was a legal heir
 including the of a tenant in Sy.No.1/1B.
 contention
 regarding fraud When memo being spoken to filed
 and engagement on 11.02.1997, the Court has
 of middlemen. failed to observe the following; The said writ
 petition was also i) It was a disputed and proved
 dismissed on the that the appellant has never
 ground that the consented to the award & his
 petitioner has name was fraudulently inserted
 acquisitioned in without any basis and not
 the acquisition acquisitioned in any manner. proceeding by
 granting consent ii) The documents to prove the
 for passing of the 'fraud' and vitiates all acquisition
 award and also proceeding; but fraud has not at
 on the ground of all been examined in the manner
 inordinate delay it deserved to be examined, but
 and laches. kept open without a speaking
 order (Annex-Z:17 page-477). Continued Hence, none of the material facts
 and the issues/points raised were 80 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 considered and no speaking order
 on the issue of 'fraud' when
 material placed on record, When
 fraud is proved, the question of
 delay does not arise as the fraud
 unravels everything vitiating all
 transactions including an order of
 a Court. Hence, the order is not
 final and binding, rendered per
 incurium. 27.03.1997 The suit in OS It is also false and incorrect as
 No.526/1997 the decree obtained by collusion
 come to be as the suit summons were not
 decreed. This served on the parties/appellant
 suit was filed by herein. The postal
 the society acknowledgment does not bear
 seeking for an the signature of the appellant and
 order of the order obtained behind the
 Injunction back of the appellant is not
 against the binding on the appellant (Pl
 appellant and his additional documents filed on
 family members 09.07.2019 page 20 to 22). 01.12.2008 The WP During the pendency of the WP
 No.27298/2004 No.35685-686/1995, the Revenue
 was dismissed. Court of the Asst. Commissioner 81 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 The appellant (AC) initiated suo moto action on
 filed this Writ 28.11.1996 to nullify the
 Petition. In this transaction for violation of non-
 writ petition the alienation condition under the
 appellant has Act of 1978. In the said
 challenged the proceeding, the prayer for grant
 order passed by of stay against the respondents
 the Dy not to tress pass the land and not
 Commissioner to cut the fruit bearing trees on
 rejecting the the land was granted (Pl see
 application under Page-666 para -15 Vol-III r/w
 the provisions of Annex-Z:15 page-452 (Vol-
 PTCL Act, filed by II)], the said proceedings was on
 the appellant a different cause of action.
 seeking for On the advice of the Counsel, the
 restoration said statutory remedy was
 possession. persuaded. After dismissal of WP
 No.33685-86/1995 on 28.1.1997
 the AC, dropped the proceedings
 since land acquired. An appeal
 against the said order was before
 the Dy.Commissioner and he
 remanded. Again, the AC dropped
 against for which a second appeal
 was filed, which was dismissed. preferred by the remedy wherein failure to get the
 appellant relief, another subsequent writ
 challenging the preferred on different cause of
 order dated action or
 22.06.2009 continuing/recurring/successive 83 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 passed in WA wrongs wherein each wrong
 No.369/2009 giving rise to a distinct and
 separate cause of action, is
 maintainable as not barred by res
 judicata as held by the Apex
 Court in the case of Hoshnak
 Singh v Uol(1979) 3 SCC 135,
 para-7,8, 10 therein and as held
 in case of Uol v Tarsem Singh
 (2008) 8 SCC 648 para-4. It is also settled principle of law
 that the dismissal of SLP in limine
 by a non-speaking order, does not
 bar for entertaining another
 petition or a review petition by
 High Court as held by the Apex
 Court in the case of Meghmala v
 G.Narasimha Reddy (2010) 8
 SCC 383 para-22. 20.05.2014 The WP The documents placed on records
 No.36564/2012 prove that the acquisition is
 come to be lapsed for not utilizing the land
 dismissed. The within the time-limit. When there
 Writ Petition was is no prior approval of the housing
 filed seeking for scheme and/or failure to complete
 direction to the the acquisition by implementing
 Government to housing scheme within a period
 enforce the terms of 3 years as per sub rule (iii) of 84 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 of the agreement Rule 5 of the Land Acquisition
 signed by the (Companies) Rules, 1973 in terms
 Society at the of sub section (4) of Sec 41 of the
 time of handing LA Act or 5 years u/s 27 of the
 over the lands to BDA Act , the acquisition is
 the Society by lapsed. To that effect, the
 the Government Respondent-Society executed an
 on the ground of undertaking agreement
 non-utilisation of (Annexure-K page-224)
 the land for [Clause 4(ii), 9(c) and (d)] which
 purpose for reads as under; which the land 4(ii) undertake the work of
 were acquired construction of the building within
 and restore the three years from the date on
 same to the which possession of the land
 petitioner. Hence handed over to the society and
 the Writ Appeal. complete the same within three
 years from the aforesaid date. 9(c) The Society shall not form
 the layout duly getting the
 plan approved by town
 planning wing of the BDA... (d) in case of violations of any
 of the conditions, the Govt will
 be competent to resume the
 land acquired in favour
 (continued) Society. The issue has been considered by 85 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 the Apex Court in the case of
 Bangalore City HBCS v State of
 Karnataka (2012) 3 SCC 727
 para-22 [9(c)(d)] r/w 75, 78, 79. 1.Writ Appeal is liable to be Writ Appeal is deserved to be
dismissed on the following allowed on the following grounds:
ground: a)The filing of the present WP The contention is misleading.
amounts to abuse of the process Dismissal of WP on the ground of
of the Court having regard to the delay and laches does not amount
earlier orders passed by this to upholding the validity of the
Hon'ble Court upholding the acquisition.
validity of the acquisition When the 'issues and/or fraud'
proceedings. is not adjudicated on merits in
 earlier writ petition, another writ
 petition disclosing all facts is
 maintainable and entitled to
 determine the case on merits. Access to justice is a human right,
 judicial review is a basic feature
 of the Constitution of India. Hence, does not amount to abuse
 of process of the Court/law as
 held by the Apex Court. wherein failure to get the relief,
 subsequent writ petition
 No.36564/2012 preferred after
 exhausting alternative remedy of
 appeal/revision on the same
 cause of action or different cause
 of action would not be barred by
 res judicata, cause of action in
 the two cases are different as
 held in the case Hoshnak Singh
 v Uol (1979) 3 SCC 135 para- 7,8,10) and as held in the case
 of Sri Antony Reddy v State of
 Karnataka (2019) (2) Kar L R
 629(DB) para-15(d). The
 petitioner who has suffered grave
 injustice is vigilant in defending
 his statutory legal rights since
 from 1995 when fraud came to
 his notice, cannot be termed as
 abuse the process of the Court
 and the petition is maintainable. (continued) b) The Writ Petition is also liable The Respondent-5 to cover up
to dismissed on the ground of their misdeeds and compound 87 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
delay and laches. their fraudulent illegal activities,
 always pressing to dismiss the
 petition on the ground of delay,
 instead of defending on merits. It is well settled principle of law
 that when fraud and manifest
 illegality is established and
 proved; delay has no application. The first WP No.WP No.35685- the petitioner kept quiet without
 exercising his legal right or that
 delay has occasioned. Delay
 occur when the right of a litigant
 is not exercised by him within the
 time frame and in case of a
 litigant would be hit by delay if he
 has slept over his rights. The
 petitioner continuously agitating
 his rights as he has suffered
 untold hardship and injustice. acquisition as lapsed by virtue of
 abandonment over efflux of time
 of three decades. The delay
 cannot be attributed to the
 petitioner but delay as occasioned
 due to lapses on the part of the
 respondents, the same cannot
 held against the petitioner and
 the delay would accrue to the
 benefit of the petitioners as held
 by three co-ordinate Division
 Benches in the case of KIADB v
 State of Karnataka WA
 No.100219/2018(DB) para-17
 and 18, and in the case of BDA v
 C Krishna Reddy in WA
 No.3486/2016 (DB) para-5(end)
 and reiterated in Sri Antony
 Reddy v State of Karnataka (2019) (2) Kar L R 629(DB)
 para-15(g). c) The principle of res judicata and In the absence of adjudication of
constructive res judicata applies to 'issues and/or 'fraud' or a
the grounds raised in the Writ collusion or conspiracy with a 90 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
Petition view to deprive the rights of the
 others in relation to property
 would render, the transaction void
 ab initio. Fraud cannot be
 perpetuated or saved by the
 doctrine of res judicata. Hence
 principle of res judicata or
 constructive res judicate does
 apply as held in the case of Ram
 Chandra Singh v Savithri Devi (2005) 5 SCC 319 para-2, 23,
 25, 27, 33. The same is
 reiterated in Meghmala case
 para-28, 34 & 36. d) The Writ Petition filed by the The contention is false and
appellant is also liable to be misleading as the main issue and
dismissed having regard to the cause of action are different from
findings recorded in Writ Petition each other. Even the finding
No.35685-686/1995. recorded in the said WP No.
 35685-686/1995 based on
 misrepresentation of the
 Respondent No.5, was contrary to
 the material placed as well as the
 authorities placed on record and
 no binding effect as there is no
 adjudication by speaking order
 on fraud. e) The Writ Petition filed by the The contention is false and 91 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
Appellant is also liable to be misleading, contrary to the
dismissed on the ground that the material placed on record. The
possession of lands has been physical possession [when fruit
taken by the Government and bearing trees on the land (Page
handed over the Society as well as 666 para -15 (Vol-III) r/w Annex-
the fact that the society formed Z:15 page - 452 (Vol-II)], is not
the layout and allotted the sites to taken by issuing notice to the
its members. petitioner and compensation has
 not been paid to the appellant. seeking for approval of the layout
 plan on the ground that all
 members are ex-servicemen
 deserve sympathetic
 consideration. A copy of said WP
 is produced herewith and marked
 as ANNEXURE-Z41 together with
 its enclosures which are marked
 therein as Annexure-EE, G, P and
 V relevant in this case. Annex-EE
 a notice dated 25.07.2013
 issued by BDA as a result of
 dropping acquisition by BDA 93 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 wherein a foot-note, depicts the
 actual facts that the entire land is
 vacant and subject to the
 condition that in case any dispute
 arises it is the sole responsibility
 of the Society no refund will made
 under any circumstances and in
 case any misrepresentation is
 found at a later stage, liable for
 cancellation. Kindly note that the
 main notice dated 09.03.2006
 issued to the appellant to pay
 developments charges without
 any conditions. The Annex-G
 dated:5.12.92, imposing various
 conditions by the BDA out of
 which furnishing NOC from co- operation department for having
 verified the genuine membership,
 enable them to approve the
 layout plan but not yet furnished
 the information sought for and
 acquisition lapsed. The Annex-P
 dated 31.05.04 & annex-V dated
 30.11.2010 therein, using 'ex- statements, misleading and false. The said Society is a bogus
 Society, none are ex-servicemen
 category, the society should not
 enrol outsiders as members for
 commercial venture, the
 registration of the society itself
 fraud on the statute and violative
 of Section 6(d) and 11-A of the
 KCS Act, 1959 (Pl see:Narayana
 Reddy v State of Karnataka
 [ILR 1881 KAR 2248 (DB)]
 para-50(2) r/w 40 approved
 by the Apex Court in HMT case
 (1995)2 SCC 677 para-22. The Govt and RCS issued
 directions/guidelines to identify
 genuine Housing Societies and
 to verify its genuine membership 95 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 (Annex-Z:9 page-411, Annex- Z23:499 Vol-II)

 Further, the Society is prohibited
 by issuing statutory directions u/s
 30-B of KCS Act to allot sites any
 one till the genuine eligible
 membership is verified and BDA
 approves the layout plan (Pl See
 Annex-Z (page-366), Annex- It is false to say that the layout is
 formed, when BDA has not
 approved layout plan and not
 issued the work order to alter the
 nature of the land u/s 32 of the
 BDA (Annex-Z:21 (page-489),
 Z:26 (page-523), Z:33 (page- 565), Z:39 (page-628). That apart, the Co-operation
 Department has not yet verified
 the genuine members eligible for
 allotment of sites (Pl see Annex- Z:12 (page-437), Z:20 (page- 487), Z:25 (page-521), Z:28
 (page-528), Z:40 (page-629). Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5

 Once it is held that order is
 obtained by fraud, If any sale of
 imaginary sites only on paper
 without physical possession, for
 commercial venture made by the
 Society so as to circumvent the
 lapse of acquisition, even principle
 of natural justice are not required
 to be complied with for setting
 aside the same and it would be
 wholly inequitable to confer a
 benefit on party who is
 beneficiary under fraud which are
 liable to be quashed as held by
 the Apex Court in the case of
 Ganpatbhai Mahijibhai Solanki
 (2008) 12 SCC 353 para-19,
 20 and Uddar Gagan
 Properties Ltd v Sant Sigh (2016) 11 SCC 378 para-26,
 33.4 f) The Writ Petition filed by the This statement is utter false and
Appellant is liable to be dismissed misleading again a fraud on court.
on the ground that the award It was a disputed and proved fact
passed in respect of the land in that the appellant has never
question was a consent award and consented to the award & his
the appellant has received the name was fraudulently inserted 97 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
compensation without protest and without any basis in the award
the same already considered by and not acquisitioned in any
the Hon'ble Court and attained manner.
finality. g) The Writ Petition is also liable clean hands and suppressed the
to be dismissed on the ground material fact that they filed WP
that the petitioner has not come No.40445/2014 (Annex-41 supra)
to the Court with clean hands against BDA seeking direction to
 approve the layout plan which is
 pending consideration, thereby,
 guilty of 'suppressio veri
 suggestion falsi' and also 'pot
 calling the kettle black'. It is the respondents who
 withhold factual information and
 to distort factual position by
 creating forged documents is
 nothing short of committing a
 crime under IPC . The petitioner 99 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 has placed all the materials
 without any suppressing facts and
 is not blameworthy. The WA is
 liable to be allowed. h) The appellant is alleging fraud This statement is without any
as against the Respondent No.5. basis and misleading. The
However, it is the appellant who is conduct of the respondents
guilty of fraud. The appellants was indisputably relevant that
conduct clearly disentitled him they were not responsible for
from claiming any relief at the bringing about the state of
hands of this Court. things complained of and that
 they were not unfair or
 inequitable in their dealings
 with the party/petitioner,
 their conduct also should be
 fair and honest as has been held
 by the Apex Court in case of M
 Gurudas v Rasaranjan (2006)
 8 SCC 367. The rampant
 illegality averred in the Writ
 Petition clearly established
 fraudulent conduct. The party
 who secured an order or decision
 by misrepresentation or fraud
 cannot be allowed to enjoy its
 fruits. 2. The contention of the The respondent is guilty of 100 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
Appellant that the Hon'ble Court perjury and contempt, liable for
kept open the challenge on ground punishment. The order passed on
of fraud in W.P.NO.35685- 11.02.1997 in the WP No.35685-
686/1995 in misplaced. In the 686/1995 has been forged to suit
said WP, the Hon'ble Court clearly their convenience, misled the
stated that 'the Writ petitions is Court. The words 'the contention
dismissed on the ground of delay as regards fraud' has been forged
and laches without expressing any & twisted as 'the contention of
opinion that the documents fraud in any manner'. The order
produced support the contention is extracted verbatim, for
of fraud in any manner'. comparison as under;
Therefore, it is clear that no '...The petitions have been
liberty was reserved on the dismissed on the ground of delay
petition to challenge the and laches... without expressing
acquisition proceeding on the any opinion whether the said
ground of fraud. documents supports the
 contention as regards fraud'. (Pl
 see Annex-Z17 page 426-477) 3. After handing over the The statement is false and
possession of the lands to the misleading that Mr. Mohan Kumar
Respondents Society, the is not a cousin of the appellant, in
Appellant, his cousin Mr Mohan fact the said Mr. Mohan Kumar
Kumar and uncle Thimmaiah had who was claiming as a legal heir
interfered with the possession of of the tenant in Sy.No.1/1-B.
the said lands. Hence, the
Respondent Society had filed the It is also false and incorrect as
Suit in OS No.526/1997 against the decree is obtained by
the appellant, his cousin Mr. collusion as the suit summons 101 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
Mohan Kumar and uncle were not served on the appellant.
Thimmaiah before the II The Postal acknowledgment does
Additional Civil Judge (Jr. Dv) not bear the signature of the
Bengaluru Rural District seeking appellant and not binding on the
the relief of Permanent Injunction. appellant (Pl additional
The said Suit came to be decreed documents filed on
vide judgment dated 22.03.2003. 09.07.2019 page 20 to 22). The said decree is not binding on
 the appellant in any manner, as it
 has obtained behind back of the
 petitioner/appellant. 4. The acquisition proceedings The documents placed on records
which was initiated and completed proves the rampant and blatant
has been done in accordance with illegalities, violations also
law and there is no infirmity in highlighted on the face of it, in
either the procedure or legality of the order dated 20.05.2014 itself
the acquisition proceedings. The in WP 36564/2012 impugned
appellant is not entitled to herein. indulged in commercial venture as
 it has not yet proved its 102 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 'genuineness' as
 perorders/guidelines issued u/s
 30-B of the KCS Act, 1959 in
 pursuance of the orders of the
 Division Bench (ILR 1991 KAR
 2248 at para-52(2) approved
 by the Apex Court in (1995) 2
 SCC 677 para-22, for identifying
 genuine housing societies and
 identification of genuine
 membership [But failed to
 comply, see Annex-Z:9 (page- 411), Z:23 (page-499) r/w Z:12
 (page-437), Z:20 (page -487),
 Z:25 (page-521), Z:28 (page- 528) Z:40 (page-629)]. When there is no prior approval
 the housing scheme which void ab
 inito and the physical possession
 is not taken by paying
 compensation or failure to
 complete the acquisition by
 implementing housing scheme
 within a period of 3 years or
 otherwise 5 years (supra) the
 acquisition is lapsed. It is can
 be challenged at any point of time
 as held by the Apex Court (P see 103 Date/events Contentions of Rejoinder by the Appellant
 the
 Respondent 5
 list of authorities). Hence the writ
 appeal is liable to be allowed. 31. Learned senior counsel for the appellant also relied

upon inter alia, certain judgments in support of his contentions

that when fraud is alleged, then delay and laches would not be

an impediment to consider the petition on merits. It would be relevant to refer to two decisions of the Apex

Court wherein, the Apex Court considered the legality of the

acquisition, albeit after several years. In the case of Vyalikaval House Building Co-operative

Society V. Chandrappa , the facts were that a learned Single

Judge of this Court had dismissed a writ petition assailing the

acquisition on the ground that it was hopelessly barred by time

being delayed by fourteen years and that the petitioner had

participated in the enquiry under Section 5-A of the Act and had

received substantial amount from the society pursuant to the

agreement executed in his favour and had thereby, acquiesced

in the matter. In the writ appeal filed against the said order, the

Division Bench held that the entire acquisition on behalf of the 104 said society was quashed as having been actuated by fraud and

there was colorable exercise of power and by placing reliance on Narayana Reddy V. State of Karnataka , set aside the order

of the learned Single Judge and granted relief to the said

petitioner. The judgment of the Division Bench was assailed by

the said society before the Apex Court. The Apex Court held that

since the acquisition assailed by the petitioner had already been

set aside by the High Court and the said order of the High Court

had also been upheld by the Apex Court, the acquisition had

stood vitiated and therefore, the Division Bench was right in

granting relief to the petitioner although the writ petition was

filed fourteen years after the acquisition proceedings had been

completed. We find that the reliance placed on the said decision by the

appellant herein is misplaced for the reason that as far as the

present acquisition is concerned, the same was not interfered

with by the learned Single Judge of this Court as early as in the

year 1997 in writ petition filed in the year 1996. Against the

order of the learned Single Judge no writ appeals were filed. Therefore, the decision in Chandrappa's case cannot be applied

to the present case. Reliance placed on the latest decision of the Apex Court in

the case of Bangalore City Co-operative Housing Limited, is

also misplaced for the reason that in the said case also, the writ

petitioners therein had assailed the Notifications issued under

the Act dated 23.08.1988 and 25.09.1989 between the years

1992 to 1998. It is under those circumstances that the Apex

Court noted that the delay in filing the writ petitions had been

condoned by the Division Bench of this Court and therefore,

there was no impediment to consider the case of merits. The

said decision is also of no assistance to the petitioners. Hence,

the writ petition filed by the petitioners is liable to be dismissed

on the ground of delay and laches. 32. Per contra, learned senior counsel appearing for the

respondent Society relied upon certain judgments and contended

that even if the plea of fraud is raised nevertheless in the instant

case the said pleas were available to the petitioner as early as in

the year 1995 and petitioner had not urged them when the writ

petition was disposed of in 1997. Also, the earlier writ petitions,

namely, W.P. Nos. 35685-86/1995 were dismissed on the

ground of delay and laches and that the dismissal of the writ 106 petitions on the ground of delay and laches bars the filing of

another writ petition and that doctrine of res judicata would

apply. 33. It is noted that the writ petitions were initially filed in

the year 1995. The said writ petitions were disposed of in early

1997 on the ground of delay and laches. Subsequently, certain

documents were sought to be produced before the same learned

Single Judge but the same did not yield any result inasmuch as

the learned Single Judge by his order dated 11.02.1997 opined

that the writ petitions were dismissed on the ground of delay

and laches and hence no observation or opinion could be

expressed on the documents that were produced in support of

the contention that there was a fraudulent acquisition in respect

of land in question. 34. Be that as it may. There was no appeal filed as against

the order of the learned Single Judge passed in W.P. Nos. 35685-86/1995. That order attained finality. The said writ

petitions were dismissed on the ground of delay and laches. Although the plea of fraud in the acquisition process raised in

those petitions were considered, nevertheless the very filing of 107 the writ petitions being belated, the learned Single Judge

dismissed the same on the ground of delay and laches. The plea

of fraud was sought to be supported by certain documents

subsequent to the dismissal of the writ petitions on the ground

of delay and laches, but to no avail. As already noted, the said

order attained finality as no appeal was filed against the said

order. When such being the case the question that arises is, was

it permissible for writ petitioner to once again file a fresh writ

petition, that too, after fifteen years, i.e. in the year 2012, once

again raising the pleas raised in the earlier writ petitions and

articulating it in a more verbose manner and also raising

additional pleas. It may be that certain pleas and contentions

were raised by the writ petitioner in W.P. Nos. 35685-86/1995. But there was no finding given by the learned Single Judge in

those writ petitions, since those petitions were dismissed as

being belated and hence did not deserve to be heard on merits

and the learned Single Judge exercising discretion under Article

226 of the Constitution refused to consider the case of the writ

petitioner on merits and dismissed the writ petitions on the

ground of delay and laches. Such being the position, we do not

think that the writ petitioner could have once again filed W.P. 108 No. 36564/2012 that too after a decade and a half i.e., fifteen

years later, once again raising the very same pleas and

contentions and as contended by the learned senior counsel for

the appellant-petitioner, additional pleas. The filing of the writ

petition, W.P. No. 36564/2012 in the year 2012 after remaining

silent for about fifteen years is also hit by delay and laches in so

far as additional pleas are concerned. In this context, a plethora of decisions of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court on the issue regarding delay and as to how a

Court of equity exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the

Constitution cannot extend its hands to such persons who

approach the Court after several years, can be relied upon. In

fact, the Apex Court has held in several decisions that stale

claims ought not to be entertained by High Courts exercising writ

jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The

recent decisions in that regard are as follows:- c) Similarly, the Apex Court in the case of Sawaran

Latha and others v. State of Haryana and others [2010(4)

SCC 532] has held that when the notification under Section 4 of

the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 was issued in the year 2001 and

the award was passed in the year 2004, writ petitions filed for

quashing of the notification in the year 2009 have to be

dismissed on the ground of delay as the litigants who dare to

abuse the process of the Court in disregard of the law of

limitation, delay and laches should not be encouraged. d) In Tamil Nadu Housing Board, Chennai v. M.

Meiyappan [2010 AIR SCW 7130], when the acquisition

proceedings were challenged ten years after notifications were

issued, the Apex Court held that the High Courts should not have

entertained the writ petition particularly after passing of the

award and that the High Court should have dismissed the writ

petition at the threshold on the ground of delay and laches. e) In Swaika Properties (P) Limited and another v. State of Rajasthan & others [2008 (4) SCC 695], the Apex

Court has followed its earlier decisions in the case of Municipal

Corporation of Greater Bombay v. The Industrial

Development Investment Co. Pvt. Ltd. & others [(1996)

11 SCC 501] by observing as follows: It was held that the writ petition had been filed after

possession was taken over and the award had become final and

therefore, the writ petition had to be dismissed on the ground of

delay and laches. f) The order of the High Court dismissing the writ

petition was confirmed by the Apex Court in Banda

Development Authority, Banda v. Motilal Agarwal and

others [(2011) 5 SCC 394], as the filing of the writ petition

was 9 years after the declaration was issued under Section 6(1) of the Act and the delay of six years after passing of the award

and the delayed filing of the writ petition was a reason for

refusing to entertain the prayer made in the writ petition. It was 113 held that in a challenge made to the acquisition of land for the

purpose of public purpose Courts have consistently held that the

delay in filing the writ petition should be viewed seriously, if the

petitioner fails to offer plausible explanation for the delay. g) Reference can also be made to another decision of

the Apex Court reported in (1996) 6 SCC 445 in the case of State of Rajasthan & Others v. D.R.Lakshmi & others ,

wherein it has cautioned the High Court not to entertain writ

petitions where there is inordinate delay, while exercising

jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. h) Similarly, in the case of The Municipal Council,

Ahmednagar & anr. v. Shah Hyder Beig & others [(2002) 2

SCC 48], it has been opined thus:- i) In fact in S.S.Balu and others v. State of

Karnataka [(2009) 2 SCC 479], it has been held that delay

defeats equity and that relief can be denied on the ground of

delay alone even though relief is granted to other similarly

situated persons who approach the courts in time. j) To a similar effect is the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure

Corporation Ltd. v. Chinthamaneni Narasimha Rao &

others [(2012) 12 SCC 797]. k) In Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and

Sewerage Board v. T.T. Murali Babu [(2014)4 SCC 109],

on the doctrine of delay and laches and approach of the Court in

that regard, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has ruled as under: (l) Further, recently in the case of State of Jammu and

Kashmir v. R.K. Zalpuri and others [(2015) 15 SCC 602],

the Hon'ble Supreme Court has opined that the writ Court while

deciding a writ petition he has to remain alive to the nature of

the claim and the unexplained delay on the part of the writ

petitioner. Stale claims are not to be adjudicated unless non- interference would cause grave injustice. The aforesaid decisions are squarely applicable having

regard to the facts of the present case. 35. However, the contention of the learned senior

counsel for the appellant/writ petitioner is that not only the

pleas that were available to the petitioner initially were raised

but certain additional grounds were raised and hence, W.P.

No. 36564/2012 was maintainable and had to be considered

on merits. The said contention is opposed by learned senior

counsel for the respondent by submitting that the filing of the

said writ petition is hit not only by the principles of res

judicata and constructive res judicata but also under Order II

Rule 2 of CPC . We find considerable force in the submission of

learned counsel for respondent - Society inasmuch as when

W.P. Nos. 35685-86/1995 were dismissed on the ground of

delay and laches without considering the case of petitioner on

merits, petitioner could not have attempted to file one more

writ petition that too, after fifteen years raising the same pleas

which were raised in the earlier writ petition. W.P. No.

36564/2012 therefore was not only hit by delay and laches

but also by res judicata inasmuch as subsequently this Court 117 could not have overlooked the order passed in W.P. Nos. 35685-86/1995 and considered the writ petitions on merits. Therefore the learned single Judge was right in concluding that

the writ petition only amplified or enlarged the contentions

raised earlier which were in any case not considered in the

earlier order passed by this Court and therefore there was no

reason to once again consider the same as the earlier writ

petition itself was hit by delay and laches. Hence, filing of

W.P. No. 36564/2012 was also hit by principles of res

judicata. The relevant decisions of the Apex Court in this context are as

follows:- Karigowda and Others, at paragraph 105, the Apex Court held

as follows; (b). In (1992) 4 SCC 605 (Krishna Swami v. Union of

India), the Apex Court held that the said principles of re- consideration of a decision has been reiterated in the case of Union of India v. Raghubir Singh [1989(2) SCC 754]. Also reference to Keshava Mills Co. Ltd. v. CIT [(1965) 2

SCR 908], has been made to point out that the interest of the

public should be a right and permissible compelling of reasons,

reconsideration of the decisions of a Court for the public good. (c). The recent decision of the Apex Court in 2011(3)

SCC 408 ( M.Nagabhushana v. State of Karnataka ), on the

principles of constructive res judicata and principles of analogous

to the same can also be usefully cited as follows:- "In view of such authoritative
 pronouncement of the Constitution Bench of this
 Court, there can be no doubt that the principles 119 of constructive res judicata, as explained in
 Explanation IV to Section 11 CPC, are also
 applicable to writ petitions." (d). The Apex Court in 2011 AIR SCW 3033 ( Shankar

Co-op Housing Society Ltd., v. M.Prabhakar & Others ),

held that a second writ petition on the same cause of action

cannot be filed and an issue which had attained finality cannot

be entertained. In the said case, the Apex Court held that the

High Courts ought not to entertain and grant relief to a writ

petitioner, when there is inordinate delay and unexplained delay

in approaching the Court and that subsequent writ petition is not

maintainable in respect of an issue concluded between the

parties in the earlier writ petitions. (e). In fact, the Apex Court has also held that decisions

rendered in a public interest litigation has a binding effect vide

AIR 2006 SC 1846 ( State of Karnataka v. All India

Manufacturers Organization ), as long as the litigant acts

bona fide, as a judgment in such a case binds the public at large

and bars any member of the public from coming all the way to

the Court and raising any connected issue or an issue which has 120 been raised should have been raised on an earlier occasion by

way of public interest litigation. (f). In AIR 1986 SC 391 (Forward Construction Co. And Others v. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay

And Others ), the Apex court found fault with the High Court in

holding that the earlier judgment would not operate as res

judicata as one of the grounds taken in the subsequent petition

was conspicuous by its absence in the earlier petition. Explanation IV to Section 11 CPC was relied upon to observe

that any matter which might and ought to have been made a

ground of defence or attack in such suits shall be deemed to be

a matter directly or substantially issue in such suit. According to

the Apex Court an adjudication is conclusive and final not only as

to the actual matter determined but as to every other matter

which the parties might and ought to have litigated and have it

decided as incidental to or essentially connected with the subject

matter of the litigation and every matter coming within the

legitimate purview of the original action both in respect of the

matters of claim or defence. According to the Apex Court, the

principle underlying Explanation IV is that there the parties have 121 had an opportunity of controverting a matter that should be

taken to be the same thing as if the matter had been actually

controverted and decided. It is true that where a matter has

been constructively in issue it cannot be said to have been

actually heard and decided. It could only be deemed to have

been heard and decided. It was further held that Section 11 of

the CPC applies to the public interest litigation as well but it

must be proved that the previous litigation was the public

interest litigation, not by way of a private grievance, which was

bona fide which is common and is agitated in common with

others. (g) In fact in 1998 (3) KLJ 121 ( Manipur Vasant Kini

v. Union of India & Others ), a Division Bench of this Court has

held that principle of res judicata applies even to public interest

litigation initiated under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,

even though such proceedings are not governed by the Code of

civil procedure. A decision given on merits in respect of a public

right claimed by the petitioners in common with others, would

bind not only the petitioners, but also all other persons 122 interested in such right and would operate as res judicata

barring subsequent petition in respect of same matters. (h) 2010 (3) SCC 353 ( S.Nagaraj (Dead) By L.Rs

and Others v. B.R.Vasudeva Murthy and Others ), is also a

case pertaining to the constructive res judicata. The Apex Court

held that if a ground of attack had not been taken in any earlier

proceedings, the same cannot be raised in a subsequent

proceeding because of the principle of constructive res judicata

under explanation 4 to Section 11 of the Code which is

applicable to writ petitions. 36. However, the additional submission made by learned

senior counsel for appellant - writ petitioner is that in W.P. No.

36564/2012 additional grounds were raised and hence, those

grounds were not available in the earlier writ petition. We have

perused the same. We do not find that they are additional

grounds but they were grounds or pleas which were available

even when W.P. Nos. 35685-86/1995 were filed. Even otherwise,

writ petitioner cannot have any right to file fresh petitions with

the passage of time by contending that land which had been

acquired had not been utilized for the purpose for which it was 123 acquired or there was under-utilization or non-utilization. Such a

plea is not available to the land loser to raise it in a writ petition. In this regard we place reliance on the following judgments: ii) In Smt. Ranee Govindram Hassanand vs. Chief

Secretary of Karnataka, Government of Karnataka ,

reported in (2011) 6 KLJ 591, a Division Bench of this Court,

comprising of his Lordship, the Chief Justice J.S.Khehar and

Ashok B. Hinchigeri, J., considered the correctness of an order

passed in W.P.Nos.6549-6550/2011 (LA-KIADB). While

considering the submission regarding change in land user, the

Division Bench referred to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme 124 Court in Smt. Sulochana Chandrakant Galande vs. Pune

Municipal Transport reported in AIR 2005 SC 492 wherein it

has been observed as under : In the context of Land Acquisition Act , the Court has

observed:- 37. Moreover, when writ petition was filed in the year

2012, additional grounds could not have been raised as fresh

grounds or as new grounds, as those grounds were available

even when the earlier writ petition was filed in the year 1995

which writ petition was also not filed at an earliest point of

time and which was dismissed on the ground of delay and

laches. As we have noted, from the year 1997 till 2012, the

petitioner remained silent acquiesced with the acquisition

process and accepted the award. Hence, on this ground, the

right to file the writ petition was lost. The principle of 127 constructive res judicata would also bar filing of another writ

petition. 38. On a perusal of the additional grounds sought to be

raised we find that those grounds were available even when

the earlier writ petition was filed. We do not think that this

Court could permit the petitioner to file successive writ

petitions by raising new grounds which were in any case

available when the first writ petition was filed. Hence, the

provisions of Order II Rule 2 CPC would also squarely apply to

the instant case. 39. Moreover, when the writ petition was filed under the PTCL Act the petitioner accepted the acquisition process and

contended that the acquisition of the land in question

amounts to a `transfer' of `granted land' within the meaning

of PTCL Act . Therefore, the relief was sought under the

provisions of Section 4 read with Section 5 of the said Act. The

implication is, the filing of the said proceedings under the PTCL Act is on the basis that there was an acquisition of the

land in question which had been completed and it would come

within the ambit and meaning of the word `transfer' under the 128 PTCL Act . The said writ petition was however dismissed by

saying that the acquisition of land of a grantee would not

come within the scope of the expression transfer as defined

under the Act. When the said writ petition was filed under the PTCL Act , it was on the premise that there was an acquisition

process which had been completed and the contentions raised

therein was under the provisions of PTCL Act . When that writ

petition was filed in the year 2009, there was no plea raised

by contending that there was fraud in the acquisition process

or any other such contention. 40. Our inference from the aforesaid discussion is, writ

petitions have been filed in every decade, in the 1990s, in

2004 and again in 2012 repeatedly assailing the acquisition

process but to no avail. Successive filing of the petitions by

the petitioner is nothing but an abuse of the process of law

and of this Court, to some how circumvent the process of

acquisition and seek exclusion of the land in question from the

acquisition process. We do not think that such attempts must

be encouraged by this Court. 41. Further, respondent - society had filed O.S. No.

526/1997 which was a suit for bare injunction against the

petitioner herein. Though the petitioner was served in the said

suit, he did not contest the same and the said suit was

decreed and as against the said suit there has been no appeal

filed and the judgment and decree in the said suit has also

attained finality. 42. Moreover, in respect of the very same lands the

uncle of the petitioner, Sri. Thimmaiah had filed W.P. No.

30782/1992 wherein the very same contentions and plea

regarding fraud etc., were raised. The said writ petition was

also dismissed by order dated 07.09.1993 which order has

also attained finality. 43. In the circumstances, we hold that filing of the writ

petition is hit by principle of res judicata and constructive res

judicata and is an instance of abuse of process of law and of

this Court. Hence, in our view the learned Single Judge rightly

dismissed the writ petition. We do not find any merit in this

appeal. Hence, the appeal is liable to be dismissed and is

dismissed. 44. In this regard we also note that successive attempts

made by the appellant to some how stall the acquisition

process has resulted in respondent No. 5 - Society and its

allottees not being able to carry on any development on the

land in question although they have been already allotted. Further, on account of the successive litigation and stay orders

granted by this Court, there has been delay in release of the

plan although relinquishment of the land for the purpose of

roads and civic amenities, has been made by respondent No. 5 - Society in favour of the Bengaluru Development Authority. We therefore deprecate the tendency of the appellant who has

filed successive petitions before this Court which has taken

precious time and that too, on the same pleas or on pleas

which were available even when the earlier writ petition was

filed. Further, other pleas which are not available to the

appellant have been raised where no relief could be given on

the said pleas. In the circumstances, we dismiss this appeal

with cost of Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees one lakh only). The said

cost shall be paid by the appellant to the High Court Legal 131 Services Committee within a period of four weeks from the

date of receipt of certified copy of this judgment. In view of dismissal of the writ appeal, the applications

I.A. Nos. 2/2017 and 3/2017 seeking impleadment filed by the

allottees would not survive for consideration and they are

accordingly disposed. In view of dismissal of the writ appeal, I.A. No. 1/2020

stands allowed. Further, I.A. No. 1/2016 filed by the appellant seeking

temporary injunction stands dismissed. I.A. Nos. 1/2019 and 2/2019 filed by the appellant are

also dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE. Sd/- JUDGE. VM/LRS.