RESERVED ON : 16th MARCH, 2022
 PRONOUNCED ON : 21st MARCH, 2022
 P.C.: (c) That the pending the hearing and final disposal of the petition this
 Hon'ble Court be pleased to restrain the Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 and their
 servants, agents, representatives, heirs or any persons claiming through
 them from selling, transferring, assigning, creating third party or part the
 possession of the flat bearing Flat No. 51, Rosie Apartment, 9 th North
 Avenue Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai and also the flat bearing Flat No.
 B/705 situated in Jay Sheetal CHS Ltd., Bhayander (E), Dist. Thane. (d) Pending the hearing and final disposal of this Petition, this Hon'ble
 Court be pleased to direct the Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 to comply the order
 dated 23.10.2015 and consent terms dated 23.10.2015. (e) Pending the hearing and final disposal of this Petition, this Hon'ble
 Court be pleased to direct the Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 to permit the
 Petitioner and his family members to reside in the flat bearing No. 51, Rosy
 Apartment, 9th Avenue Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai along with the
 Respondent Nos. 2 and 3." 2. The cause title shows Respondent No. 1 as two partnership firms. The

Applicant/Petitioner is Respondent No. 2 and 3's son.

BACKGROUND OF FACTS LEADING TO FILING OF THE PRESENT
CONTEMPT PETITION : 3. This is an extremely unfortunate situation where the parties viz. the son

on the one hand, and the parents on the other, have been litigating for over 22 years.

Greed, acrimony and deceit are writ large on the conduct of the Applicant. To put SSP 2/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

things in context, it will be useful to set out a brief background of the circumstances

leading to filing of the present Contempt Petition. 4. In or around the year 1999, disputes arose between the parties inter alia

relating to family properties and shares of the respective parties in Respondent No. 1.

Ever since, the Parties have filed various proceedings against each other including

diverse criminal proceedings. 5. In the year 2000, Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 filed S.C. Suit No. 926 of

2000 before the City Civil Court inter alia against the Applicant. The City Civil Court

referred disputes in respect of the shares of the parties in Respondent No. 1

(partnership firm) and partition of a flat situated at Flat No. 51, Rosie Apartment, 9

North Avenue, Santacruz (West), Mumbai 400 0054 ("Santacruz Flat") to

arbitration. 6. The Applicant filed a claim before the arbitrator seeking Rs. 2.5 crores. 7. On 22nd October, 2007 an arbitration award ("Arbitration Award")

came to be passed wherein it was ordered as follows : 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc c) The Respondents shall pay to the Claimant [Applicant] the
 sum of Rs. 37,93,828 (Rs. Thirty Seven Lakhs Ninety Three Thousand
 Eight hundred Twenty Eight only) on the claimant vacating the flat being
 No.51, Rosey Apartments, Santacruz (West), Mumbai also with his
 family and handing over peaceful possession to the Respondents. d) The Claimant shall sign and execute all necessary papers and
 documents or forms as may be required for transfer of the flat at
 Santacruz in favour of the Respondent Shri O. P. Dalmiya, in the record
 of the cooperative Society including the Share Certificate. e) The Claimant shall sign all papers, documents or letters etc.,
 which may be required by Banks in which the firms had accounts, so as to
 enable the Respondents to operate them smoothly. Similarly, if any paper
 or document is required to be signed by Income Tax, Sales Tax or any other
 Govt. Department the claimant shall cooperate with the Respondents in this
 regard. f) All other claims of the Claimant are dismissed. 8. The Applicant filed Arbitration Petition No. 95 of 2008 under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 challenging the Arbitration Award. By a

detailed Order dated 20th April, 2010, the Applicant's objections to the Arbitration

Award were held to be misconceived and the aforementioned Arbitration Petition was

dismissed by this Court. 9. In 2010, the Applicant filed Appeal No. 887 of 2010 assailing the order SSP 4/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

of dismissal. By Order dated 7th March 2011, on the request of the Applicant, the

aforementioned Appeal was withdrawn. 10. In 2011, Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 filed Execution Application No. 1359

of 2011 ("Execution Application") seeking execution of the Arbitral Award.

Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 also moved Chamber Summons No. 88 of 2012 in the

Execution Application. 11. By an Order dated 30th April, 2012 in Chamber Summons No. 88 of

2012, certain amounts were directed to be deposited with the Prothonotary and Senior

Master of this Court inter alia as under : 12. By an Order dated 3rd May, 2012 in Chamber Summons No. 88 of 2012

this Court recorded the amounts deposited and noted as follows : 13. Subsequently, by an Order dated 8 th May 2012 the Single Judge of this

Court (S.J. Kathawalla, J.) allowed the chamber summons and held : (Emphasis supplied) 14. In 2012, the Petitioner (Applicant) filed Appeal (L) No. 396 of 2012

assailing the aforementioned Order dated 8th May 2012. 15. By an Order dated 2nd August 2012 in Appeal (L) No. 396 of 2012 this

Court directed that there should be an ad-interim stay on the Order dated 8 th May

2012. However, Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 were given liberty to move this Court for

partition of the Santacruz Flat. Further, during pendency of the aforementioned

Appeal, Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 were allowed to withdraw 50% of amount deposited

with Prothonotary and Senior Master of Court. 16. Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 filed a Special Leave Petition ("SLP")

challenging the Order dated 2nd August 2012 passed by the division bench of this

Court. 17. By orders dated 7th April, 2014 and 21st July, 2014 the Supreme Court

directed the Applicant to handover possession of the Santacruz Flat to Respondent

Nos. 2 and 3. As there was controversy regarding handing over of possession of the

aforementioned flat, by an Order dated 25 th August 2014, the Supreme Court directed

the Applicant to remove all his possessions from the Santacruz Flat, lock the premises SSP 7/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

and bring the key to the Supreme Court on 8 th September 2014 on which day the keys

could be handed over to the counsel for Respondent Nos. 2 and 3. 18. On 8th September 2014, the Applicant appeared before the Supreme

Court and handed over keys of the Santacruz Flat to Respondent No. 2 and 3's

counsel. As the Supreme Court believed that possession was handed over, on the same

day, the SLP was disposed of leaving it open to both parties to work out other

remedies in Appeal (L) No. 396 of 2012 pending before this Court. 19. However, the keys handed over did not work and Respondent Nos 2 and

3 were once again constrained to move this Court vide the Execution Application

seeking execution of the Arbitration Award. 20. In the Execution Application the Applicant claimed to have handed over

the correct keys. The Applicant also submitted that the Santacruz Flat is not vacant

and in fact his wife and son were residing in the Santacruz Flat. 21. By Order dated 18th March 2015 passed in the Execution Application the

Court (R.S. Dalvi, J.) inter alia noted as follows : 22. Further, by an Order dated 16th April, 2015 in the Execution Application,

the Court (R.S. Dalvi, J.) passed an Order inter alia noting as follows : 23. The Applicant filed a Notice of Motion in Appeal No. (L) 396 of 2012

challenging the aforementioned order dated 16 th April 2015. By an order dated 28 th

April 2015 this Court dismissed the Notice of Motion. 24. It is the Applicant's case that on 23rd October, 2015, the Applicant and SSP 11/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 entered into consent terms ("Consent Terms") wherein it

is agreed as follows : 25. By an Order dated 23rd October 2015 in Appeal (L) No. 396 of 2012, this

Court took the Consent Terms on record and the aforementioned Appeal was

disposed of in terms of the same. The Applicant appeared in person and one Mr.

Deepak Gautam alongwith Advocate M.S. Hadi appeared on behalf of Respondent

Nos. 2 and 3. 26. The Applicant asserts Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 have breached the SSP 12/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

Consent Terms and accordingly the present Contempt Petition is filed.

APPLICANT'S CASE: RESPONDENT NOS.2 AND 3's CASE : was deposited with the Prothonotary and Senior Master of this Court. Out of this, in

terms of this Court's Order dated 2 nd August, 2012, Respondent Nos. 2 and 3

withdrew 50% i.e Rs. 51,85,636.68/-. The remaining balance i.e Rs. 52,18,506.67 was

withdrawn by the Applicant when the Applicant's actual entitlement was only Rs.

37,93,828/-. 28.12 Furthermore, the amount of Rs. 51,85,636.68/- withdrawn by

Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 was siphoned off by the Applicant in connivance with one

Mr. M.S Hadi, the erstwhile Advocate of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3, by creating false

and fabricated documents. The Applicant in connivance with Advocate M.S Hadi

prepared the Consent Terms and forged the signature of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3.

28.13 Owing to the aforesaid acts, on 28th December, 2015 Respondent No. 2 SSP 16/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

filed an F.I.R inter alia against the Applicant and Mr. M.S Hadi. In the F.I.R various

allegations of cheating, criminal breach of trust, forgery etc. have been made against

the Applicant and Mr. M.S Hadi. Respondent No. 2 has alleged that the Mr. M.S Hadi

fraudulently obtained signatures of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 on various blank

documents on some pretext or another and in connivance with the Applicant. It is also

alleged that the Applicant and Mr. M.S Hadi through forgery withdrew sums from the

savings account of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 and siphoned off the entire sum of monies

as withdrawn by Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 pursuant to the order dated 2 nd August,

2012 of this Court i.e Rs. 51,85,636.68/-. AMICUS CURIAE : In this regard reliance was placed on the cases of : observed Chief Justice Edward Coke of England about three centuries
 ago. It is the settled proposition of law that a judgment or decree
 obtained by playing fraud on the court is a nullity and honest in the eyes
 of law. Such a judgment/decree - by the first court or by the highest court - has to be treated as a nullity by every court, whether superior or
 inferior. It can be challenged in any court even in collateral proceedings."

 ... 5. The High Court, in our view, fell into patent error. The short
 question before the High Court was whether in the facts and
 circumstances of this case, Jagannath obtained the preliminary decree by
 playing fraud on the court. The High Court, however, went haywire and
 made observations which are wholly perverse. We do not agree with the High

1 (1994) 1 SCC 1 SSP 18/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

 Court that "there is no legal duty cast upon the plaintiff to come to court with
 a true case and prove it by true evidence". The principle of "finality of
 litigation" cannot be pressed to the extent of such an absurdity that it
 becomes an engine of fraud in the hands of dishonest litigants. The
 courts of law are meant for imparting justice between the parties. One
 who comes to the court, must come with clean-hands. We are constrained
 to say that more often than not, process of the court is being abused.
 Property-grabbers, tax-evaders, bank-loan-dodgers and other unscrupulous
 persons from all walks of life find the court - process a convenient lever to
 retain the illegal gains indefinitely. We have no hesitation to say that a
 person, who's case is based on falsehood, has no right to approach the
 court. He can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation." (Emphasis supplied) ( b) A.V. Papayya Sastry & Ors. v. Government of A.P. & Ors. 2, which

inter alia holds as follows : 22. It is thus settled proposition of law that a judgment, decree or
 order obtained by playing fraud on the Court, Tribunal or Authority is a
 nullity and non est in the eye of law. Such a judgment, decree or order - by
 the first Court or by the final Court - has to be treated as nullity by every
 Court, superior or inferior. It can be challenged in any Court, at any time,
 in appeal, revision, writ or even in collateral proceedings.

 ... 24. In Duchess of Kingstone, Smith's Leading Cases, 13th Edn., p.644,
 explaining the nature of fraud, de Grey, C.J. stated that though a judgment
 would be res judicata and not impeachable from within, it might be
 impeachable from without. In other words, though it is not permissible to show
 that the court was 'mistaken', it might be shown that it was 'misled'. There is an
 essential distinction between mistake and trickery. The clear implication of the
 distinction is that an action to set aside a judgment cannot be brought on the
 ground that it has been decided wrongly, namely, that on the merits, the
2 (2007)4 SCC 221 SSP 19/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

 decision was one which should not have been rendered, but it can be set aside,
 if the court was imposed upon or tricked into giving the judgment. 25. It has been said: fraud and justice never dwell together (fraus et
 jus nunquam cohabitant); or fraud and deceit ought to benefit none (fraus
 et dolus nemini patrocinari debent)." (Emphasis supplied) (c) This principle has also been reiterated by the Supreme Court in the case of Smriti

Madan Kansagra v. Perry Kansagra3 . 30.2 With regard to the scope of extent of this Court's jurisdiction in

collateral proceedings the case of Kishan Lal Barwa v. Sharda Saharan & Anr.4 was

relied upon which in turn relies upon several other cases and inter alia observes as

follows : 14. Reliance has been placed upon a decision of the Bombay High
 Court in Shewa Lachha Banjar v. Bhawarilal Ganeshmal Marwadi ,
 wherein plea of fraud was setup in execution was rejected by the
 Courts below. In such circumstances, the Bombay High Court interfered
 with the matter and made following observations: 15. Reliance has also been placed upon following decisions of the
 High Courts: The question as to whether in view of these
 provisions, a decree or order can be challenged on the
 ground of fraud in a collateral proceeding without any suit
 for setting aside the decree came up for consideration
 before a Division Bench of this Court in the case of Bishnunath Tewari v. Mst . Mirchi. In this case, there was a
 divergence of opinion between the two Judges of this Court,
 namely, Lakshmikanata Jha,. C.J. and Reuben, J. who initially
 heard the case, on which there was a reference to a third
 Judge, namely, Ramaswami, J. as he then was) and the latter
 agreed with the views expressed by Lakshmikanta Jha, C.J.
 and observed as follows: It was further held in this case that the provision SSP 22/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

 relating to limitation as provided in Article 95 of the Limitation Act has no bearing in relation to section 44 of the
 Evidence Act. As would appear from the terms of section
 44 of the Evidence Act, already quoted above, this section
 lays down that any party to a suit or other proceeding may
 show that a judgment, order or decree referred to in the
 section, which has been proved by the adverse party, was
 delivered by a Court not competent to deliver it or was
 obtained by fraud or collusion. The right as given by this
 section has not been fettered by any limitation whatsoever
 and it is manifest that such a right is quite independent of
 the right to get a judgment or decree etc. set aside by
 bringing regular suit for the purpose. I, therefore, fully
 agree with the views expressed in the earlier decision of
 this Court referred to above and hold that such a plea can
 be raised under section 44 of the Evidence Act in a
 collateral proceeding irrespective of the time when the
 judgment was delivered or decree or order was passed.
 The aforesaid contention of Shri Kailash Roy is accordingly
 rejected as being quite untenable. This, however, makes no
 difference so far as the result of this appeal is concerned in
 view of the findings above that there was no fraud in
 connection with the compromise in question." (ii) In Khirod Chandra Mohanty v. Banshidhar Khatua has been relied
 upon, which reads as under: On the above discussion I reject the above-mentioned contention SSP 24/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

 of Mr. Mohanty." (iii) In Nechhittar Singh v. Smt. Jagir Kaur , has been relied upon,
 which reads as under: 16. The Apex Court in Gram Panchayat of Village Naulakha v.
 Ujagar Singh relying upon various decisions has been pleased to hold
 as under in paras 4, 5 and 6: Thus, in order to contend in a latter suit or
 proceeding that an earlier judgment was contained by
 collusion, it is not necessary to file an independent suit as
 stated in Jagar Ram's case for a declaration as to its
 collusive nature or for setting it aside, as a condition
 precedent. In our opinion, the above cases cited in
 Sarkar's Commentary are correctly decided. We do not SSP 27/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

 agree with the decision of the Full Bench of the Punjab and
 Haryana High Court in Jagar Ram's case. The Full Bench has
 not referred to section 44 of the Evidence Act not to any
 other precedents of other Courts or to any basic legal
 principle." ....... 18. It is well settled that once the plea of fraud has been setup by
 the defendant-petitioner before the Executing Court, and credible
 evidence in support of such plea was also placed, it was incumbent
 upon the Executing Court to have examined the issue of fraud, on
 merits, and such plea ought not to have been rejected merely on the
 ground that a decree in favour of the plaintiff-respondent had been
 passed, and the Executing Court, as such, had no occasion to examine
 the plea of fraud. It is also well settled that fraud vitiates all solemn
 acts. Though a plea of fraud was taken up before the Civil Court, but such
 plea was not adjudicated, which is clarified in the judgment of the Civil
 Court itself. However, if a credible material has come into existence,
 which if is found proved vitiates the decree itself, it is the duty of the
 Executing Court to consider such plea on merits. It was open for the
 Executing Court to have examined the report of the Directorate,
 Fingerprint Experts, in accordance with law, and for such purpose an
 opportunity was liable to have been allowed to the plaintiff-
 respondent. The Executing Court could have adjudicated as to
 whether the plea of fraud was made out on facts or not? but it was not
 open for the Executing Court to brush aside the objection itself and
 thereby refused to go into such issue itself. 19. The judgment of the Apex Court relied upon by Sri Pankaj
 Agrawal, learned Counsel for the respondents, in Atma Ram Builders Pvt.
 Ltd. v. A.K. Tuli , and Smt. Kastoori Devi v. Harbansh Singh, are not
 relevant for the present purposes, inasmuch as no plea of fraud or
 interpretation of section 44 of the Evidence Act was involved therein. It
 was observed, in the facts of the case where no issue of fraud was involved,
 that once the suit had been decreed, thereafter unnecessary objections
 should not be entertained and the benefit of decree must be ensued at the
 earliest. The proposition, aforesaid, is too well settled but has no
 application in the facts of the present case, where a plea of fraud has been
 taken and substantiated with prima facie evidence. The Apex Court also
 had an occasion to consider the aspect of playing of fraud upon the Court
 in Hamza Haji v. State of Kerala , of the said judgment is reproduced: SSP 28/45 Duchess of Kingston, that: 11. In Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, it is stated that: 12. It is also clear as indicated in Kinch v. Walcott, that
 it would be in the power of a party to a decree vitiated by
 fraud to apply directly to the Court which pronounced it to
 vacate it. According to Kerr: (See the Seventh Edition, Pages 416-417) 13. In Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume 49, paragraph
 265, it is acknowledged that: In paragraph 269, it is further stated,

 "Fraud or collusion in obtaining judgment is a sufficient
 ground for opening or vacating it, even after the term at
 which it was rendered, provided the fraud was extrinsic
 and collateral to the matter tried and not a matter actually SSP 29/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

 or potentially in issue in the action. It is also stated: 14. In American Jurisprudence, 2nd Edition, Volume 46, paragraph
 825, it is stated,

 "Indeed, the connection of fraud with a judgment constitutes
 one of the chief causes for interference by a Court of equity
 with the operation of a judgment. The power of Courts of
 equity in granting such relief is inherent, and frequent
 applications for equitable relief against judgments on this
 ground were made in equity before the practice of awarding
 new trials was introduced into the Courts of common law.

 Where fraud is involved, it has been held, in some cases,
 that a remedy at law by appeal, error, or certiorari does
 not preclude relief in equity from the judgment. Nor, it
 has been said, is there any reason why a judgment
 obtained by fraud cannot be the subject of a direct attack
 by an action in equity even though the judgment has been
 satisfied." 15. The law in India is not different. Section 44 of the Evidence
 Act enables a party otherwise bound by a previous adjudication to
 show that it was not final or binding because it is vitiated by fraud.
 The provision therefore gives jurisdiction and authority to a Court to
 consider and decide the question whether a prior adjudication is
 vitiated by fraud. In Paranjpe v. Kanade, it was held that: 16. In Lakshmi Charan Saha v. Nur Ali , it was held that: 17. In Mahindra Nath Mittra v. Hari Mondal , the Court explained the
 elements to be proved before a plea of a prior decision being vitiated by
 fraud could be upheld. The Court said: 18. The position was reiterated by the same High Court in Esmile-Ud-
 Din Biswas v. Shajoran Nessa Bewa . It was held that: 19. In Nemchand Tantia v. Kishinchand Chellaram (India) Ltd. , it was
 held that: 20. It is not necessary to multiply authorities on this question since
 the matter has come up for consideration before this Court on earlier
 occasions. In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu (Dead) by LRs. v. Jagaruiath
 (Dead) by LRs, this Court stated that: The Court went on to observe that the High Court in that
 case was totally in error when it stated that there was no legal
 duty cast upon the plaintiff to come to Court with a true case
 and prove it by true evidence. Their Lordships stated: 21. In Ram Preeti Yadau v. U.P. Board of High School and Intermediate
 Education , this Court after quoting the relevant passage from Lazarus
 Estates Ltd. v. Beasley, and after referring to S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu
 (Dead) by LRs. v. Jagannath (Dead) by LRs (supra), reiterated that fraud
 avoids all judicial acts. In State of A.P. v. T. Suryachandra Rao , this Court
 after referring to the earlier decisions held that suppression of a material
 document could also amount to a fraud on the Court. It also quoted the
 observations of Lord Denning in Lazarus Estates Ltd. v. Beasley (supra),
 that: 22. According to Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 14th Edn., Volume 1,
 paragraph 263: 23. In Patch v. Ward Sir John Rolt, L.J. held that: 24. This Court in Bhaurao Dagdu Paralkar v. State of Maharashtra ,
 held that: (Emphasis supplied)

30.3 Counsel Shri Khandekar submitted that as such this Court has the

requisite power to adjudicate on whether there was any fraud and/or collusion and/or

foul play with respect to the Consent Terms and the order taking them on record.

30.4 In this case, the following incidents/factors were brought to our

attention which could be evaluated to form an opinion, ex facie or prima facie with

respect to the allegation fraud/collusion or otherwise. These are as follows : 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc (b) The Consent Terms also seem untenable owing to the immense

animosity and several disputes between the parties including criminal proceedings. (c) The conduct of the Applicant which is recorded through various

Orders passed in previous proceedings appears to be reprehensible. It is difficult to

believe that Respondent Nos 2 and 3 would execute the said Consent Terms

notwithstanding the background and prior history between the parties. (d) Respondents Nos. 2 and 3 allege they were not present when the

Order dated 23rd October 2015 taking on record the Consent Terms was passed. This

is also borne out from the Order which records the appearance of Respondent Nos. 2

and 3 through one Mr. Deepak Gautam and Mr. Hadi. (e) Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 claim to have never authorised Mr.

Deepak Gautam to appear and plead on their behalf. Mr. Gautam was directed to be

present at the hearing by this Court. He claimed to have met Respondent Nos. 2 and 3

only at the time when the order taking the Consent Terms on record was passed. (f ) Even after obtaining the Order dated 23rd October 2015, there is

nothing on record to show the Applicant took any action to implement the same

except for addressing a letter after more than 3 years dated 20 th November 2018. This

casts further suspicion on the veracity and correctness of the Consent Terms and the

conduct of the Applicant. SSP 34/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc (g) To the naked eye, signature on the Consent Terms doesn't appear

to match the signature of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 on other documents placed on

record. However this cannot be conclusive one way or another.

FINDINGS AND ANALYSIS : 33. On 10th March 2022, Mr. Deepak Gautam and Mr. M.S. Hadi were both

present before this Court. It appears Mr. M.S. Hadi had appointed Mr. Deepak

Gautam to appear in the matter pertaining to taking of the Consent Terms on record.

During the course of the proceedings we also learnt Mr. M.S Hadi had obtained

certain sums of monies from the Applicant. We called upon Mr. M.S Hadi to explain

how he received sums of monies from the Applicant when he was appointed as the

advocate on behalf of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3. However, no satisfactory response was

provided. These facts are only placed on record for completeness. Adjudication

regarding the fraud and forgery by Mr. M.S Hadi is ongoing pursuant to the F.I.R filed

by Respondent No. 2 and therefore we are not commenting further upon the issue.

Suffice it to state that it is not in ordinary course that the lawyer appointed by one side

receives lacs of rupees from the other side. That would certainly need credible

explanation. But for a credible explanation, such an act would surely shock the

conscience of the Court. SSP 36/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc 34. After the matter was heard and stood on several occasions the Applicant

also attempted to withdraw this Contempt Petition. However, owing to the

reprehensible conduct of the Applicant we do not deem it appropriate to permit the

Applicant to withdraw the Contempt Petition as this stage and deem it necessary to set

out what has transpired. The Applicant cannot be permitted to attempt to enforce the

Consent Terms. 35. It is clear that an order obtained by fraud or collusion is a nullity and is

non-est in law. It is also clear that an enquiry in this regard can also done in a collateral

proceeding where "fraud" or "collusion" are set up as a defence. In a given case on

the material before it, the Court may declare that a particular order was obtained by

fraud or collusion. When such an enquiry is done in the facts of this case, at least

prima facie, the Consent Terms and the Order appear to be obtained by fraud or

collusion. This is on account of the following factors : Vide several Orders of this Court and the Supreme Court, the Applicant has
 time and again been directed to handover vacant possession of the Santacruz
 Flat to Respondent Nos. 2 and 3. Finally after years of litigation, Respondent
 Nos. 2 and 3 have been handed over vacant possession. It seems unlikely given
 the animosity and acrimony between the parties and huge monies, effort and
 time expended to secure vacant possession of the Santacruz Flat, Respondent
 Nos. 2 and 3 would consent to the Applicant and his family members residing
 therein. (ii) Clause 2(b) of the Consent Terms states Respondent Nos. 2 and 3
 are ready to transfer and handover the Bhayandar Flat and the Room to the
 Applicant. No consideration or cause for this transfer is specified. It is
 Respondent Nos. 2 and 3's case that this clause amounts to a decree in terms of
 the dispute pending between the parties before the City Civil Court. The
 aforementioned properties are a source of income for Respondent Nos. 2 and 3.
 There is no reasonable cause to merely transfer the same without any
 consideration or benefit whatsoever and also when proceedings pursuant to the
 same are ongoing and pending adjudication. (iii) Clause 2(b) of the Consent Terms states that the Applicant was
 permitted to withdraw the entire amount along with interest deposited with the
 Prothonotary and Senior Master of this Court. In terms of the Arbitral Award
 the Applicant was only entitled to withdraw approx. Rs. 37.93 lakhs that too
 upon handing over vacant possession of the Santacruz Flat. In terms of this
 Clause the Applicant was getting amounts over and above its entitlement of Rs.
 37.93 lakhs as also getting to reside in the Santacruz Flat. It seems entirely
 absurd that Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 would agree to such a clause. SSP 38/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc (c) It seems doubtful that Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 would agree to sign such biased

and one-sided terms. The nature of the Consent Terms itself casts a suspicion on the

veracity and correctness thereof. Orders granted in favour of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 : 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc (c) Order dated 8th May, 2012 in Chamber Summons No. 88 of 2012

in Execution Application No. 1359 of 2011 whereby inter alia a receiver was appointed

to handover possession of the Santacruz Flat to Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 and after

deduction of approx. Rs. 37.93 lakhs Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 were entitled to receive

the balance amount deposited with the Prothonotary and Senior master of this Court. (d) Order dated 8th September 2014 in Special Leave Petition (C)

No. 4281 of 2013 whereby the Supreme Court noted that pursuant to its Order dated

25th August 2014 the Applicant had handed over keys of the Santacruz Flat to

Respondent Nos. 2 and 3's Counsel in court premises and as such possession of the

Santacruz Flat had been handed over. (e) Order dated 16th April, 2015 in Execution Application No. 1359

of 2011 whereby again a receiver was appointed in respect of the Santacruz Flat to

hand over possession to Respondent Nos. 2 and 3. 39. In light of the aforementioned Orders obtained over the course of several

years and after expending substantial amount of money and effort, possession of the

Santacruz Flat was already handed over to Respondent Nos. 2 and 3. Further,

Respondent Nos. 2 and 3's entitlement over amounts deposited with the

Prothonotary and Senior master of this Court was also recorded. 40. Parties have been locked in an extremely contentious litigation since 22 SSP 40/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

years; there is great animosity between them. Literally every order passed in favour of

Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 is assailed by the Applicant. It is unlikely that after receiving

favourable Orders from this Court and also the Supreme Court, Respondent Nos. 2

and 3 would enter into the Consent Terms essentially agreeing to each and every

demand and claim of the Applicant and also agreeing to live with the Applicant.

There is no justifiable cause for Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 agreeing to such a one-sided

Consent Terms specifically owing to the fact that Respondent Nos. 2 and 3's rights

over the said Flat as also entitlements to part of the amounts deposited with the

Prothonotary and Senior master of this Court had been expressly recognised vide

Orders of this Court. Conduct of the Applicant : (Emphasis supplied) 44. The aforementioned Orders the attempt of the Applicant to circumvent

the Supreme Court's directions. 45. There is also nothing on record to show the Applicant made any attempt

whatsoever to implement the Consent Terms prior to addressing the letter dated 20 th

November 2018 i.e after more than 3 years from execution of the Consent Terms.

This also definitely casts suspicion on the conduct of the Applicant and the tenability

of the Consent Terms. The story is, prima facie, unbelievable.

Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 appear to not be present during taking on record of
Consent Terms : (ii) The aforementioned Order also does not record anything regarding the facts

and/or the merits of the matter and the Consent Terms are simpliciter taken on

record. It appears that the Division Bench of this Court was hoodwinked and did not

apply its mind to the merits of this dispute. (iii) Though typically the presence of parties is not warranted in every situation, in

the peculiar facts of this case where the Consent Terms appear to be ex facie

unconscionable, the fact that Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 not being physically present

when this Court took the Consent Terms on record casts suspicion on their

authenticity. Mr Gautam who appeared for Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 on the

instructions of Mr. Hadi for the first time on the day when the Consent Terms were

taken on record submitted in court that he was acting on the instructions of Mr. Hadi

and had not met Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 prior thereto. (iv) Mr. Hadi, the erstwhile advocate of behalf of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 who had

instructed Mr. Deepak Gautam to appear when the Consent Terms were filed has

admittedly accepted monies from the Applicant. When called to this Court and asked

to explain and justify such payments, he claims these payments were made on

instructions of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3. To say the least, something is amiss. (v) Respondent No. 2 has also filed an FIR inter alia against the Applicant and Mr. SSP 43/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc

Hadi for cheating, breach of trust and forgery. In this respect, Mr. Hadi also admits to

have gone to jail for 5 months. Several serious allegations of fraud and forgery are

made in this FIR. 46. In these circumstances, Respondent Nos. 2 and 3's absence is a material factor

in testing the Consent Terms. 47. We also note that to the naked eye the signature on the Consent Terms (23 rd

October, 2015) appears to be different from the signature of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3

on the Sale Deed for the Room dated 20 th April, 2016. We have referred to these two

documents only because they have been executed around the same time. In any event,

our view is not influenced by this aspect at all. 48. Prima facie, the Consent Terms do not appear to be genuine for all of the

aforesaid reasons. Hence, the question of enforcing the Consent Terms in this Petition

does not arise. 49. However, we are cognizant of the fact that Criminal Case No. 72/PW/2006 file

pursuant to Respondent No. 2's F.I.R is pending before the 71 st Metropolitan

Magistrate Court pertaining to forgery, cheating, criminal breach of trust and other

like offences by the Applicant and Mr. M.S. Hadi. We therefore do not wish to render

any conclusive finding which may have a bearing on any criminal proceeding. SSP 44/45 7 ia 795 of 2022.doc 50. Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 are at liberty to file appropriate proceeding

challenging the veracity and correctness of the Consent Terms and the Order dated

25th October 2015. This is not to mean that this must be done. 51. Accordingly, the Contempt Petition stands dismissed. The Applicant shall pay

costs in the sum of Rs.50,000/- to Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 within a period of 2 weeks

from today. In view thereof, Interim Application No.795 of 2022 also stands

dismissed. 52. We would like to conclude by expressing our appreciation to Shri Rashmin

Khandekar, the Learned Amicus Curiae who assisted us in this matter.