CENTRAL INFORMATION COMMISSION
 (Room No.313, CIC Bhawan, Baba Gangnath Marg, Munirka, New Delhi-110067)

 Before Prof. M. Sridhar Acharyulu (Madabhushi Sridhar), CIC

 CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263

 Navdeep Gupta v. PIO, National Archives of India

Order Sheet: RTI filed on 14.07.2017, CPIO reply - Nil, FAO -Nil, Second appeal filed on 21.09.2017,
Hearing on 18.06.2018; Proceedings on 10.04.2018: Complainant absent, Public Authority represented by Dr. Keshab
Chandra Jena, NAI and Mr. Udey Shankar; Directions issued. Proceedings on 18.06.2018: Appellant absent, Public Authority represented by CPIO Mr. Arun
Sharma, Director and Mr. Sanjeev Chandra, Asst. Director (RTI) from Rajya Sabha Secretariat; Dr.
Saurabh Shukla and Mr. Parveen Kumar, Under Secretary (RTI), Mr. Mukul Dixit, SO (RTI) and Mr. Jai
Prakash Singh, ACPIO, SO from Prime Minister's Office; Mr. V.K. Rajan, Dy. Secretary and Mr. P.S.
Danguse, Under Secretary from Ministry of Home Affairs; Mr Ved Prakash Singh, Under Secretary from
Ministry of External Affairs; Dr. Keshab Chandra Jena, National Archives of India; Smt. Sheela
Sharma, Smt. Vinesh from NIC Lok Sabha Secretariat at CIC; Date of Decision - 24.09.2018: Disposed of with directions/recommendations

 FINAL ORDER 1. The complainant sought information relating to death of former Prime
 Minister Late Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri (Shastri): "1. If dead body of Late
 Prime Minister was brought to India or was he cremated there in Russia? 2.
 In case his body was brought to India, please supply me certified copy of
 post-mortem conducted on his body". The Home Ministry forwarded this RTI
 request to the National Archives of India (NAI) on 05.08.2017. The NAI could
 not give any information. Applicant filed this complaint. 2. The CPIO of NAI had no information, they searched but found nothing. He
 says this information might be with the Ministry of External Affairs or Indian
 Embassy in Russia or Ministry of Home or some other authority. 3. The Commission gave an interim direction on 11.05.2018: 4. Shri V.K. Rajan, CPIO, Ministry of Home Affairs and Shri Ved Prakash Singh,
 CPIO, Ministry of External Affairs jointly filed following statement on
 18.06.2018: 2. The information in this regard is as under: "As per record, a statement was
 made by the then Minister of External Affairs in Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha on
 16.2.1966, on the circumstances under which Shri Lal Bahadur Shastriji occurred
 because of an acute attack of 'INFARKTMIOCARDA'. MEDICAL REPORT ON THE DEATH OF THE PRIME MINISTER OF INDIA, L.B. SHASTRI

 During all the days of his stay in Tashkent, as well as on the evening of 10th January
 1966, the Prime Minister of India, Lal Bahadur Shastri, felt well. He never complained
 about his health. On the evening of 10th January 1966, the Prime Minister of India, Lal
 Bahadur Shastri, was healthy and cheerful while he was attending a reception given by
 the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of USSR, A.N. Kosygin. According to Dr. R.N.
 Chugh, the doctor-attendant on the Prime Minister, who used to be always present at
 his side and thus had attended the reception, after return from the reception to his
 residence, Lal bahadur Shastri was in normal health and was in a good mood and
 spoke over the telephone with his relatives in Delhi. He went to bed at about 12.30
 midnight. On the 11th of January, at about 1.20 in the morning, Messrs. Shay, Kapur
 and Sharma approached the Premier's doctor who was in the room next to him and
 told him that the Prime Minister is feeling unwell. Dr. R. N. Chugh at once approached
 the Prime Minister and found that the Prime Minister was sitting on his bed, coughing
 and was complaining of lack of breath. He was holding his chest with his hands and
 was looking pale. The doctor found the pulse to be very fast and weak. Blood pressure
 was not registered. The heart beats were hardly audible. With the help pf the
 gentlemen mentioned above, the doctor put the Prime Minister in a reclining position,
 gave him intra-muscular injection of MEPTHENTIH SULPHATE one m.1 (15 milligrams)
 and 1 m.1 of MICCRENA. Within the next 3 minutes, Prime Minister L.B. Shastri lost
 consciousness, the pulse disappeared, breathing stopped and the heart beats could not
 be heard. Death occurred at 1.32 on the morning of 11th January 1966. Doctor R. N.
 Chugh had already begun revival treatment by the methods of indirect massage of the
 heart and artificial respiration through the mouth by means of the air tube. The Soviet
 doctor E.G. YEREMENKO who had come there immediately on a call from Dr. R. N.
 Chug also took part in the treatment by revival procedures. She found Prime Minister
 L.B. Shastri dead when she arrived: The pulse had stopped, the heart was silent, there
 was no breath and no corneal reflexes. The revival treatment was continued further
 with the help of the anti-shock group of doctors which had arrived immediately on call.
 Indirect massage of the heart wsa done; in the left cavity under the heart at an
 interval of 15 minutes was twice introduced a mixture of Potasssium Cloride with
 Adrenalin and glucose. Artificial respiration by means of the machine with the help of
 "Intubation tube" was also attempted. However, these measures yielded no results.
 The following Professors also took part in the entire treatment: b. Public Records Act, 1993 - Compilation of Twentieth Report of the Director
 General of Archives for the year 2017 on the Implementation of - request for

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 5
 information (addressed to President's Secretariat, Vice President's Secretariat,
 Prime Minister's Office, Cabinet Secretariat, All Ministries of the Government of
 India and PSUs); c. Furnishing of Information on Records Series of defunct Committees/Commissions
 (addressed to President's Secretariat, Vice President's Secretariat, Prime
 Minister's Office, Cabinet Secretariat, All Ministries of the Government of India
 and PSUs); d. Recording, Reviewing, Indexing and Weeding of Public Records and Supply of Half
 Yearly Returns thereof under Public Records Act, 1993 and Public Records Rules,
 1997 (addressed to President's Secretariat, Vice President's Secretariat, Prime
 Minister's Office, Cabinet Secretariat, All Ministries of the Government of India
 and PSUs); e. Downgrading of classified records - supply of half yearly Returns as required
 under Public records Act, 1993 and Public Record Rules, 1997 (addressed to
 President's Secretariat, Vice President's Secretariat, Prime Minister's Office,
 Cabinet Secretariat, All Ministries of the Government of India and PSUs);
 f. Compilation of Organizational History of Ministries/Departments/Offices as
 required under clause (i) of sub- section 1 of the Section 6 of the Public Records
 Act, 1993(addressed to President's Secretariat, Vice President's Secretariat,
 Prime Minister's Office, Cabinet Secretariat, All Ministries of the Government of
 India and PSUs); 8. Mr. Syed Farid Ahmad, Assistant Director of Archives has put in all possible
 efforts to collect and collate the information from all the concerned
 departments/ministry/public authority to update but finds no grounds to
 continue with the Complaint. When there is no record within the reach or the
 record needs to be furnished by the top political executive functionaries, it is
 not reasonable to consider it as a denial by the CPIO. Issues emerging out of facts & circumstances 9. However there are certain important issues deserve attention. The Ministry
 of Home Affairs should have examined if any information could be given
 before passing RTI off to NAI or should have transferred the RTI request also
 to the Ministry of External Affairs, or the Indian Embassy in Russia or Russian
 Embassy in India. 10.The answer to first question was generally available in public domain that the
 body of Shastri was brought from Tashkent and was cremated in India.
 Second question is also unofficially answered that no post mortem was
 conducted on his body. Though the questions could be answered either in

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 6
 'yes' or 'no', the real purport of the RTI request is to know about the
 mysterious death of India's second Prime Minister Shastri. Serious doubts
 were raised by family members of Shastri, eminent writers and journalists
 continuously. Former British High Commissioner and veteran Journalist Mr.
 Kuldip Nayar's book Beyond The Lines (Nayar, Kuldip, Beyond The Lines,
 Lotus Collection, Roli Books, page nos. 198 to 202)
 (https://www.outlookindia.com/magazine/story/the-night-shastri-died-and-other-
 stories/281456) contains a detailed account of the incident, as the writer was

 present in Tashkent as PM's media advisor. It was a matter of great concern
 that our late Prime Minister met with sudden death on Russian dacha on
 January 11, 1966. Journalist Mr Nayar has posed the question--was Shastri
 poisoned? 11.The Outlook published excerpts from this book and wrote after contacting the
 members of the family: "As we pieced together the strange circumstances of
 Shastri's death through family accounts and on the basis of RTI applications,
 we can only conclude that the mystery deepens and some answers must be
 found. His family has always maintained that he was poisoned and his death
 hushed up". The magazine listed some 'certainly unanswered questions': However, in spite of the initial suspicion of poisoning, no post-mortem was done,
 either in Russia or in India. His late wife kept trying to raise questions
 about his death, but nothing was ever investigated. b) The couple had six children, of whom only two, Anil and Sunil Shastri, survive.
 Both are members of the Congress, although the latter had joined the BJP briefly.
 Grandson Siddhartha Nath Singh (son of Shastri's late daughter Suman) is in the
 BJP. But regardless of political affiliations, there is a unanimity within the family
 that Shastri was poisoned and the case was never investigated. c) In 2009, the PMO had replied that it had only one document relating to Shastri's
 death but refused to declassify it under a clause that would "prejudicially affect
 the sovereignty and integrity of the country, the security, strategic, scientific or
 economic interests of the state, relation with foreign state or lead to incitement
 of an offence". CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 7 d) "I'm willing to believe my grandfather died of a heart attack. But at least
 declassify the documents" says Siddhartha Singh: "I'm willing to believe my
 grandfather died of a heart attack. But please share the information with us as
 our family has never got closure on this issue. Please just declassify the
 information." He recounts something that was an obsession with his late mother
 who was the last family member to speak to Shastri. She was on the phone with
 her father, as her husband, V.N. Singh, an employee of the State Trading
 Corporation, was travelling to Cairo on work where Shastri too was headed.
 Shastri therefore told his daughter to ensure that her husband carried Indian
 newspapers to Cairo. His last words to her were--"I'm going to have a glass of
 milk and sleep." The line got disconnected and Suman tried again. However,
 when she got through 15 minutes later, she was told her father was dead. e) The first inquiry was conducted only after the Emergency when the Janata
 government was in power- called the Raj Narain Inquiry- it never came up with
 any conclusions but began the process. However, no record of this can be found
 in the Parliament library by itself not a sinister event as lots of vital documents
 have disappeared often due to carelessness. f) Two witnesses were scheduled to depose before this parliamentary body in 1977. One was R.N. Chugh, Shastri's doctor who accompanied him to Tashkent. The
 second was Ram Nath, his personal servant, who was also present on the day of
 his death. Chugh was travelling to Delhi by road to testify before the committee
 and was hit by a truck and died. Ram Nath came to Delhi and visited Shastri's
 widow before the deposition. According to family members, he told her, "Bahut
 din ka bojh tha, amma. Aaj sab bata denge (I have been carrying this burden too
 long. I will shed it today)." Ram Nath left the 1, Motilal Nehru, residence to make
 his way to Parliament. He was hit by a moving vehicle, his legs crushed
 (eventually amputated) and he lost his memory. https://www.outlookindia.com/magazine/story/tashkent-whodunit-an-enduring-
 tale/281537

Shastri's Last moments: Kuldip Nayar's account 12.The RTI questions in this case were dealt with by Kuldip Nayar. Hence it is
 relevant to reproduce his first person account from Beyond The Lines: Moreover, Ayub is a good person.' Shastri told Ram Nath to bring him his food
 which came from Ambassador Kaul's house, prepared by his cook, Jan
 Mohammed. He ate very little: a dish of spinach and potatoes and a curry. While
 he was eating a call came from Delhi, which Jagan Nath took. It was from
 Venkataraman, another of Shastri's personal assistants. He said that the reaction
 in Delhi to the Tashkent Declaration was favourable but Babuji's (as he was called
 by the family and the staff) own household was not happy. Surendra Nath
 Dwivedi, the Praja Socialist Party leader and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the Jana Sangh
 leader, had also criticized the withdrawal of Indian forces from Hajipir and
 Tithwal, Shastri said that the Opposition was bound to criticize the declaration. k) Jagan Nath asked Shastri if he should connect him to his residence as he had not
 spoken to his family for two days. Shastri first said 'No', but then changed his
 mind. This was around 11 p.m. (Tashkent time, half an hour behind New Delhi).
 First, his son-in-law, V. N. Singh, spoke, but he did not say much. Then Kusum,
 Shastri's eldest and favourite daughter, took the phone from her brother-in-law.
 Shastri asked her: 'Tum ko kaisa laga? [How did you react to it?]' She replied: Desai said: 'That is all politics. I am sure there was no foul play. He died of a
 heart attack. I have checked with the doctor and his secretary, C. P. Srivastava,

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 12
 who accompanied him to Tashkent.' (Nayar, Kuldip, Beyond The Lines, Lotus Collection,

 Roli Books, page nos. 198 to 202) 13.This Commissioner visited the residence of 94 year old veteran Journalist,
 former editor of Indian Express Shri Kuldip Nayar, during the last week of
 May 2018, and discussed this issue with him. He told this Commissioner that
 he was shocked at the sudden death of Shastri, as he saw him off last in his
 last evening, and then he rushed to his place on a telephonic call and saw
 him lying dead. He said: "We were all worrying about sudden development
 but doubts did not strike. After we returned to India, when Mrs Shastri and
 other members raised serious doubts, I could find reason in their suspicion,
 and surprised how we could not think of need for medical examination at that
 time. We are now talking about post-mortem examination in such cases of
 important persons' death. Later I have narrated out of my memory in my
 book, how things unfolded on that fateful day. I cannot say anything on the
 question whether he was poisoned. But I think now the doubts are not
 baseless. Shastri's personal doctor Mr Chug and Personal Assistant have met
 with accidents in separate incidents when they were about to depose before
 Raj Narain Commission. Whether both accidents are really 'accidents'? Is he
 poisoned, if so, who could do it? I can't suspect anyone. I can't say
 anything.. I think there is a need to further study of the issue or probe
 even". After reading Commission's interim order, Kuldip Nayar Ji was
 interested in reading responses of Government; He expressed happiness that
 someone raised an RTI question on Shastri's death. Commissioner proposed
 to meet him again but unfortunately Kuldip ji breathed last. 14.The BBC Journalist, Mr. Soutik Biswas, analysed the narration by Kuldip
 Nayar and said it leads to an inference of possible heart attack as the cause
 of death. In his another blog Archives for August 2009, Was Mr Shastri
 murdered?, on 27th August 2009, Mr Biswas referred to Mr Kuldip Nayar's
 book "India, the Critical years" and culled out the points which suggest the
 possibility of heart attack being the cause of sudden death or Prime Minister.
 Mr Bisawas wrote: CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 13
 Mr Nayar writes that the Indian prime minister was already a heart patient,
 having suffered two attacks. He had had a hectic day .... had very little sleep. When Mr Nayar went in, he found Dr Chugh being questioned by a group of
 Soviet doctors through an interpreter. In the next room Mr Shastri lay still on
 his bed. The journalists emptied the flower vases in the room and spread
 them on the prime minister's body. Mr Nayar also noticed an overturned
 thermos flask on a dressing table some 10 feet away from Mr Shastri's bed
 and wondered whether the prime minister had struggled to get to open it to
 get water. "His slippers were neatly placed near the bed; it meant that he
 walked barefoot up to the dressing table in the carpeted room," Mr Nayar
 writes. Mr Nayar then pieces together the events leading up to Mr Shastri's death - of
 how the prime minister reached the dacha around 10 pm after a reception,
 chatted with his personal staff and asked his cook Ram Nath to bring him food
 "which was prepared in the dacha by the Russians". It gets more interesting
 from here. "In the kitchen there was a Soviet cook helped by two ladies -
 both from the Russian intelligence department - and they tasted everything,
 including water, before it was served to Mr Shastri," Mr Nayar writes.
 Remember this was at the height of the Cold War and India-Pakistan
 hostilities and the security paranoia was extreme. CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 14
 As Mr Shastri tucked into a frugal spinach and potato curry meal, he received
 a call from a personal assistant in Delhi and sought the reaction to the
 Tashkent agreement back home. Then he spoke to his family in Delhi. He
 asked his eldest daughter, Kusum, about how she had found the peace pact. Mr Nayar writes that the prime minister's wife did not come on the line to talk
 despite many requests - a contention that is disputed by many of his
 surviving family members. This upset Mr Shastri. "He began pacing up and
 down the room... For one who had had two heart attacks earlier, the
 telephone conversation and the walking must have been a strain," he writes.
 Then his staff gave him milk and some water in the flask. Around 1.30 am,
 his personal assistant Sahai, according to Mr Nayar, saw Mr Shastri at his
 door, asking with difficulty, "Where is the doctor?" Mr Nayar writes - presumably from an eyewitness account by the personal
 assistant - that Mr Shastri began coughing "rockingly", touched his chest and
 became unconscious. Dr Chugh arrived soon after, felt the prime minister's
 pulse, gave an injection into the heart, tried mouth-to-mouth resuscitation,
 but to no avail. More doctors arrived. They found Mr Shastri dead. The time of
 the death was 1.32 am. Talk about foul play began as soon as the body arrived in Delhi. Mr Nayar
 says the prime minister's wife asked him why Mr Shastri's body had turned
 blue. He told her that when "bodies are embalmed" they turn blue. Mrs
 Shastri was not convinced. She asked about "certain cuts" on Mr Shastri's
 body. Mr Nayar told her he hadn't seen any. "Apparently, she and others in
 the family suspected foul play," Mr Nayar writes. (http://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/thereporters/soutikbiswas/2009/08)

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 15 15.Then Mr Biswas refers to demand of the family members: Mr Singh told me. Then he talked about the cold war politics of the day, and
 who would have gained from poisoning Mr Shastri who had served as prime
 minister for only 19 months: a foreign power, political rivals. Some of it
 sounds remotely credible; other bits outlandish. But Mr Singh and the nation
 deserve to know why the government is holding the paper about Mr Shastri's
 death back. How will it imperil our foreign relations, with whom? India has a
 notoriously stodgy reputation as far as declassifying historical documents is
 concerned; the state almost encourages a statist historiography.
 (http://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/thereporters/soutikbiswas/2009/08) 16.Mr. Biswas, asked for bringing out the truth to end controversy once and for
 all. Late PM's son Mr. Anil Shastry on 26th September 2015 urged the Prime
 Minister that documents related to Shastri's death should be declassified. In
 an interview to news channel CNN-IBN, said that his father's death did not
 look natural. He said: He alleged that the death was due to fault done by the Indian embassy and
 termed it as "height of negligence". He claimed that his father had come to know about a scam involving a
 shipping tycoon Dharam Teja and cited an article by eminent journalist
 Khushwant Singh that Teja was in Tashkent at the time of his father's death.
 Shri Anil Shastri further said: He raised several other issues like: the sudden death of Dr RN Chugh, the
 personal physician accompanying the Prime Minister, who died in an accident
 with his family; his father's personal assistant too met with an accident, was
 crippled and lost his memory; his father's red personal diary, in which he
 made daily notings was missing. He says his father may have even written
 about the Tashkent agreement and the pressures he was under... It is not a
 bad idea to have an inquiry into his death, question all remaining witnesses
 and clear all speculation and at least establish the negligence."
 (https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Lal-Bahadur-Shastris-death-was-not-natural-claims-his-
 family/articleshow/49116369.cms) 17.Mr. Anoop Bose, Advocate, Supreme Court of India, in Law Z
 magazine dated 7.12.2016 wrote: "Tass issued a terse message, 'The
 Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR and the Council of Ministers of
 the USSR is sad to notice that 11 Jan, 1966 in 1 hour and 32 minutes in
 Tashkent died a distinguished statesman, Prime Minister of India Lal Bahadur
 Shastri.' In 2009, the Indian Ministry of External Affairs revealed that no
 'postmortem was conducted by the authorities of the former USSR'. The
 solitary record available is the report of the joint medical investigation
 conducted by Dr.Chugh and some Russian doctors attributing Shastri's death
 to 'an acute attack of INFARKTMIOCARDIA'. Mr Bose wrote: "Shastri's
 Russian butler Akhmed Sattarov was arrested, subjected to an excruciating
 interrogation and eventually let off the hook by the dreaded KGB. It is not

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 17
 known whether Jan Mohammed, who joined the Rashtrapati Bhavan staff in
 Delhi subsequent to Kaul becoming India's Foreign Secretary, was also
 interrogated". He pointed out that apart from mother and wife of Lal
 Bahadur, the Union Law Minister in Shastri's cabinet Mr Asoke Sen also
 noticed blue patches on Shastri's body much to his consternation. 18.In February, 1966, the issue of Shastri's death was raised for the first time in
 the Indian Parliament. In April, 1970, Shastri's childhood friend Tribhuvan
 Narain Singh (who was personally known to me), demanded a
 comprehensive enquiry into his death as he had not been autopsied. The
 maiden inquiry into Shastri's death was conducted by the Raj Narain
 Inquiry Committee in 1977 which proved to be utterly abortive and not a
 trace of the inquiry survives even in the archives of Parliament House. An
 epic Hindi poetry book titled 'Lalita Ke Aansoo' ('Tears of Lalita') penned by
 the celebrated Indian poet and writer Dr. Krant M. L. Verma was published in
 1978 containing a narrative of the Tashkent whodunit. 19.Mr. Anoop Bose added certain startling facts to the mystery. He wrote: 20. Are these incidents strengthening doubts? Who will answer these valid questions?
 These doubts show larger public interest behind the RTI requests. Section 8(1) does
 not provide for public interest defence for exception under clause (a), but Section
 8(2) empowers the CPIOs to show, if public interest in disclosure outweighs the harm
 to the protected interests. This subsection allows CPIO to examine comparative
 public interest on all grounds of exceptions under subsection (1). 21.Mr. Anoop Bose in his article titled -Tragic Death of Lal Bahadur Sashtri
 and the Mystifying Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Angle, raised another
 question linking Shastri's death with mystery of Netaji's disappearance. He
 wrote: http://lawzmag.com/2016/12/07/the-tragic-death-of-lal-bahadur-shastri-and-the-
 mystifying-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-angle/ 22.In 2009 Mr. Anuj Dhar, author of "What happened to Netaji?", "CIA's Eye on
 South Asia", and moderator of a transparency website, seeking the
 correspondence between the Indian embassy in Moscow and the external
 affairs ministry and between the two countries after the Shastri's death and
 on the demand of Shastri's family to declassify 1966 correspondence
 between MEA and Indian embassy. He claimed the PMO replied that only one
 document relating to Shastri's death was available but refused to declassify
 as it would "prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of the country,
 the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the state, relation
 with foreign state or lead to incitement of an offence". Mr. Dhar wrote: "The
 ministry of external affairs (MEA) informed me on July 1, 2009 that the
 division concerned had no information on the subject. It was quite strange
 because the sudden death of the prime minister must have thrown the Indian
 embassy in Moscow and the ministry in New Delhi into a tizzy. The
 correspondence between the MEA and the Indian embassy in Moscow too
 remain classified. Under ordinary circumstances, there should have been
 several reports from the embassy on the incident. They should have included
 an assessment by the Indian ambassador, T.N. Kaul at that time. Surely

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 21
 these should be ordinary routine documents, not dark secrets of state". In
 their response dated 25th September 2009, the MEA, rejected information on
 points 1 to 4 and 6 of Anuj Dhar's application and regarding point 5, stated: 23.In another RTI request with eight questions, Anuj Dhar asked PMO if any
 post-mortem was conducted on former prime minister's body in India to
 ascertain causes of his death and if not, the reasons thereof. The PMO
 answered only two questions of the RTI application saying it has only one
 classified document pertaining to the death of Shastri which is exempted
 from disclosure under the RTI Act . It sent rest of the questions to Ministry of
 External Affairs and Home Ministry to answer. The Home Ministry referred
 the matter to Delhi Police and National Archives. The CPIO of Delhi Police in
 his reply dated July 29, 2009 said, "no such record related to the death of
 the former prime minister of India Lal Bahadur Shastri is available in this
 district... Hence the requisite information pertaining to New Delhi District
 may please be treated as Nil." The MEA said only document from the
 erstwhile Soviet Government is "the report of the Joint Medical Investigation
 conducted by a team comprising Dr R N Chugh, Doctor in-Attendance to the
 PM and some Russian doctors" and added no post-mortem was conducted in
 the USSR. Shri Sunil Shastri, another son of the former prime minister, called
 the transferring of application as "absurd" and "silly joke". "He (Shastri) died
 as sitting prime minister. It sounds very silly that MHA is referring the matter
 of death of second prime minister of India to a district level police. "It should
 be looked into by highest authorities like President, Prime Minister and Home
 Minister."(2.8.2009,http://expressindia.indianexpress.com/karnatakapoll08/story_page.php
 ?id =497076) 24.Mr. Dhar's second appeal was heard and decided on 22nd June 2011, by the
 then Chief Information Commissioner Shri Satyananda Mishra
 (CIC/WB/A/2009/ 000942 & CIC/WB/C/2010/000274-SM). Officers from

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 22
 PMO, Rashtrapathi Bhawan, Ministry Of Home Affairs and Ministry of External
 Affairs, were present. The CIC directed: 25.Mr Anuj Dhar said that after the intervention of CIC, Shri Satyananda Mishra
 the MEA, in August 2011, "...supplied me copies of Dr Chugh's medical report
 and a copy of the statement made by the external affairs minister in the
 Rajya Sabha. Neither of them was classified. There was no word about the
 secret documents. CIC Mishra upheld the PMO's decision in withholding the
 single secret record with it. Later, I learned that this record contained a
 conspiracy theory that the Americans had spread rumours about foul play in
 Shastri's death. I see nothing to back this mindless charge". Then Mr Anuj
 pleaded that "today there must be several classified records about Shastri's

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 23
 death in the non-accessible archives of our intelligence agencies. The
 Russians will have interrogation records of the butlers at least. In the fullness
 of time all of that must come out". Mr. Anuj further said: "For a start, the
 Russian butler serving Shastri had been arrested - this fact came to light only
 decades later. Ahmed Sattarov, the butler, himself told British and later
 Russia media that a few hours after Shastri died he was woken up by an
 officer of the Ninth Directorate of the KGB. Suspecting that the Indian PM
 had been poisoned, the KGB men took Sattarov and others to a dungeon and
 subject them to a thorough interrogation". (https://www.dailyo.in/politics/lal-bahadur-
 shastri-son-anil-shastri-west-bengal-netaji-files-subhas-chandra-bose-mamata-banerjee-moscow-tn-kaul- kgb/story/1/6462.html) 26.Mr Anuj, who wrote extensively on mystery of Netaji's death, in one of his
 articles stated '4 reasons Lal Bahadur Shatri's death was suspicious" Sattarov was handcuffed and, along with three junior butlers, was rounded off to
 a location 30km away. Their harsh interrogation commenced in a dungeon. After
 some time, Jan Mohammad was brought in. In Sattarov's words again: "We
 thought that it must have been that man who poisoned Shastri." (ii) Shastri's near and dear ones see a needle of suspicion pointing towards an
 insider's hand: His mother screamed that someone had poisoned her son. "Mere
 bitwa ko jahar de diya!" Shastri's sons Anil and Sunil Shastri (one in Congress,
 another in BJP) and grandsons Sanjay and Siddharth Nath Singh have often
 spoken about their ongoing anguish and pain about what happened so long ago.
 Shastri's wife Lalita died thinking that her husband had been poisoned. Other
 family members and near and dear ones, like childhood friend TN Singh and close
 follower Jagdish Kodesia, were not able to make sense of the cut marks on
 Shastri's stomach and back of the neck. The cut on his neck was pouring blood
 and the sheets, pillows and clothes used by him were all soaked in blood. A
 grandson of Shastri told me that he still has his nanaji's blood-soaked cap". Dr

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 24
 Chugh, his wife and two sons were run over by a truck in 1977. Only his
 daughter survived, but was crippled. (iii) No post mortem was carried out on Shastri's body: Family demanded post-
 mortem, but was not accepted. (iv)RTI responses muddied the water further, by saying that MEA have no records. Law of Access to Records and Official Secrets 27.As the ambiguity, secrecy and mystery shrouded sudden demise of Lal
 Bahadur Shastry, the issues assumes of high significance and high larger
 public interest. Whether people have right to information and express about
 the death of their second prime minister? Supreme Court, before and after
 passing of Right to Information Act 2005, held that RTI was intrinsic part of
 Freedom of Speech and Expression under Article 19(1)(a) , which says: Not being an absolute right, there are limitations on the grounds listed under Article 19(2) which will straight away apply as restrictions on right to
 information too. (2) Nothing in sub clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any
 existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such law
 imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the
 said sub clause in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India,
 the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public
 order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or
 incitement to an offence. Similarly the Right to Information Act, 2005 in Section 8(1)(a) prescribed
 exemptions to RTI: 28.US Secrets and Security; Pentagon Papers: Can fundamental right of the
 people be denied on this excuse? The US Executive resisted publication of
 articles in Newspapers about Pentagon Papers, on similar grounds. But they
 failed. In 1967 Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara commissioned a
 "massive top-secret history of the United States role in Indochina". It's report

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 25
 of the office of the Secretary of Defense Vietnam Task Force, was popularly
 known as Pentagon Papers. Daniel Ellsberg, who had helped to produce the
 report, leaked 43 volumes of the 47-volume, 7,000-page report to reporter
 Neil Sheehan of The New York Times in March 1971 and the Newspaper
 began publishing articles outlining the findings revealing that the Johnson
 Administration "systematically lied, not only to the public but also to
 Congress". [Sheehan, Neil (1971-06-13). "Vietnam Archive: Pentagon Study
 Traces 3 Decades of Growing U.S. Involvement" (PDF) The New York Times]
 This article explained how clandestinely the US enlarged scope of Vietnam
 War with bombings of nearby Cambodia and Laos, coastal raids on North
 Vietnam and Marine Corps attacks, none which were reported in the
 mainstream media. [Frum, David (2000). How We Got Here: The '70s. New
 York: Basic Books. p. 43] The US charged the journalist with conspiracy,
 espionage and theft of government property, which were later dismissed by
 prosecutors. Ellsberg discussed the study with The New York Times reporter
 Neil Sheehan and gave 43 volumes to him. Times started publishing reports
 on June 13, 1971. [Correll, John T. "The Pentagon Papers" Air Force
 Magazine, February 2007] Nixon Administration obtained a federal court
 injunction forcing the New York Times to cease publication after three
 articles. Then the Times approached the Supreme Court. Meanwhile The
 Washington Post began publishing articles based on the Pantagon Papers
 given by Ellsberg. 29.President Nixon had claimed executive authority to force the Times to
 suspend publication of classified information in its possession. The question
 before the court was whether the constitutional freedom of the press,
 guaranteed by the First Amendment, was subordinate to a claimed need of
 the executive branch of government to maintain the secrecy of
 information. District court declined to give injunction, refusing to concede
 the contention of the state that security of nation was threatened, saying
 "the security of the Nation is not at the ramparts alone. Security also
 lies in the value of our free institutions. A cantankerous press, an
 obstinate press, a ubiquitous press must be suffered by those in

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 26
 authority to preserve the even greater values of freedom of
 expression and the right of the people to know" [United States v. N.Y.
 Times Co., 328 F. Supp. 324, 331 (S.D.N.Y. 1971)]. The Government
 approached the Supreme Court which combined case with New York Times
 Co. vs US [403 U.S. 713] case. Fifteen more newspapers also started
 publishing the reports. In Dennis v. United States, [341 U.S. 494 (1951)],
 state contended that certain message will likely to cause 'grave and
 irreparable danger to the American public when expressed, then the
 message's prior restraint could be considered an acceptable infringement of
 civil liberties. On June 30, 1971 the Supreme Court of US decided 6-3, that
 the government failed to meet the heavy burden of proof required for prior
 restraint injunction. The US SC concurred with the decisions of the two lower
 courts. Justice Black wrote: 30.Is there a clear and present danger? In the 1919 case Schenck v. United
 States, [249 U.S. 47 (1919)] Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. introduced
 the clear and present danger test, which would become an important concept
 in First Amendment law. "The question in every case is whether the words
 used are used in such circumstances and are of such a nature as to create a
 clear and present danger that they will bring about the substantive evils that
 the United States Congress has a right to prevent. It is a question of
 proximity and degree. When a nation is at war, many things that might be
 said in time of peace are such a hindrance to its effort that their utterance
 will not be endured so long as men fight, and that no Court could regard
 them as protected by any constitutional right". Brandeis and Holmes, JJ
 again promoted the clear and present danger test, this time in a concurring
 opinion in 1927's Whitney v. California decision [(274 U.S. 357 (1927), &
 Dunlap, William V., "National Security and Freedom of Speech", in Finkelman
 (vol 1), pp 1072-1074)]. The clear and present danger test was invoked by
 the majority in the 1940 Thornhill v. Alabama [310 U.S. 88 (1940)] decision
 in which a state antipicketing law was invalidated. Following Schenck v.
 United States, "clear and present danger" became both a public metaphor
 for First Amendment speech [Derrick, Geoffrey J. (2007). "Why the
 Judiciary Should Protect First Amendment Political Speech During Wartime: 31.The publication of Pentagon papers that analysed the defense defects of US
 in Vietnam War (1945 to 1967), could not have posing any clear and present
 danger to the security of nation in 1971 when it was published. The US
 government has ultimately, declassified all of the Pentagon files in June

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 28
 2011. The National Archives and Records Administration released to the
 Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, California,
 which means anybody can have the benefit of that critical analysis, as that
 cannot have any imminent danger to the security of nation. 32. Official Secrets Act and RTI: People centric governance could be ushered
 in if the Right to Information is used as key to strengthen the participatory
 democracy. The RTI is basic necessity of good governance. With reference to
 OSA, the RTI Act has a non-obstante clause: 33.The provisions of the Act which allow disclosure of information even where
 there is a clash with the exemption provisions of Sec.8(1) enjoy a general
 immunity from other Acts and instruments by virtue of Sec.22 of the Act : 34.Though OSA does not come in the way of disclosure generally the OSA along
 with other rules and instructions may impinge on the regime of freedom of
 information as they historically nurtured a culture of secrecy and non-
 disclosure, which is against the spirit of the Right to Information Act Section
 5 of OSA is the catch all provision, which says: Most interesting part of this OSA is that the word "secret" or the phrase
 "official secrets" has not been defined anywhere. Whatever a Babu says that
 could be 'secret', and its leak could be a serious offence. The information
 which does not have a bearing on national security cannot be disclosed if the

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 29
 public servant obtained or has access to it by virtue of holding office as per
 this Act. Such illiberal and draconian provisions clearly bred a culture of
 secrecy. Though the RTI Act now overrides these provisions in relation to
 matters not exempted by the Act itself from disclosure, the fact remains that
 OSA in its current form in the statute books is an anachronism. (Comment in
 2.2.5 ARC II, https://darpg.gov.in/sites/default/files/rti_masterkey1.pdf) 36.The public servants should never forget that the people are sovereign in
 democracy and they are functionaries of elected government. That means
 they are people's servants. They have duty to inform the masters.
 Transparency should be the norm in all matters of governance. The Official
 Secrets Act, 1923 (OSA), enacted during the colonial era, governs all matters
 of secrecy and confidentiality in governance. Given the colonial climate of
 mistrust of people and the primacy of public officials in dealing with the
 citizens, OSA created a culture of secrecy. Confidentiality became the norm
 and disclosure the exception. The Administrative Reforms Commission II
 report observed: While Section 5 of OSA was obviously intended to deal with
 potential breaches of national security, the wording of the law and the
 colonial times in which it was implemented made it into a catch-all legal
 provision converting practically every issue of governance into a confidential
 matter. This tendency was buttressed by the Civil Service Conduct Rules,
 1964 which prohibit communication of an official document to anyone
 without authorization. Not surprisingly, Section 123 of the Indian Evidence
 Act, enacted in 1872, prohibits the giving of evidence from unpublished
 official records without the permission of the Head of the Department, who
 has abundant discretion in the matter. Needless to say even the instructions
 issued for classification of documents for security purposes and the official
 procedures displayed this tendency of holding back information. (ARC II Para
 2.1.2) 37. Undefined Powers and Abuse: What are "official secrets"? The OSA did

 not define it. This law is unique as there are no provisions for rules and
 regulations. Thus it is totally left to the individual discretion of the officers
 without any guidance from anywhere. If an officer declares any file as

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 30
 prohibited, the possession of that document would attract severe penalty
 without looking into intention or purpose of the possession. Supreme Court
 restricted meaning of the term 'official secret' to "secret code or password
 mentioned in Section 3(c) of OSA'.[ Sama Allana Abdulla vs State of Gujarat ,
 AIR 1996 SC 569, para 7] Similarly the clause like sketches, maps, plans and
 documents used in OSA cannot be considered as "official secrets"? The OSA
 does not require all kinds of government-held information to be classified as
 "official secrets". That is why the MoDSI is not part of OSA. Most of
 documents are not connected to OSA at all. Why the Government not make
 MoDSI public? Thus the power to classify documents, irrespective of OSA is
 huge, undefined and also unguided. Even the routine matters are classified.
 There should be a file with file-notings and reasons for classification of
 documents by appropriate designated officer. A mere labeling or typing 'top
 secret' on the top of document make it 'top secret'. Is it appropriate? The
 OSA without definition of 'secrecy' leaving huge discretion with public
 servant, is not only threatening the freedom of press and people's right to
 information, but also essential civil liberties of the people. Recent example of
 misuse is the judgment of Supreme Court in case of Nambi Narayanan, ISRO
 Scientist who was victim of abuse of OSA & discretionary power of Police. For
 fifty days of wrongful imprisonment of the scientist, the SC ordered Rs 50
 lakh compensation. What documents were classified, who classified, who
 leaked it, and what was illegal consideration? There was no trace of evidence
 on these questions at all. Over 24 years after Nambi Narayanan's career got
 "smothered" in the infamous ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) spy
 scandal case, a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra,
 on Sept 14, 2018, found him a victim of trumped-up allegations of espionage
 by the Kerala police. Bench agreed with contention that prosecution launched
 by the Kerala police had a "catastrophic effect" on his career and personal life
 besides setting back the technological advancement in space research. Bench
 said: "The criminal law was set in motion without any basis... His liberty and
 dignity, basic to his human rights, were jeopardised... Despite all the glory of
 the past, he was compelled to face cynical abhorrence," Chief Justice Misra

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 31
 wrote. Based on 'confessions' of two arrested foreigners, Kerala Police
 registered a case in 1994 under Section 3 and 4 of Official Secrets Act, 1923
 alleging leak of secrets of ISRO by scientists. CJM Ernakulam found
 allegations false. Siby Mathew, head of SIT, was found by CBI to have
 surrendered his duties to IB and ordered indiscriminate arrest of scientist
 under OSA though no incriminating ISRO documents could be recovered, and
 no monies paid. They specifically stated "Shri Siby Mathew and his team
 miserably failed..." No document was recovered, no secrecy and no
 classification was proved, yet a scientist was arrested and tortured for 50
 days. Apex court's decision proved how the state was left with absolute
 powers that were abused, in the hands of the police under OSA. While Nambi
 Narayanan was struggling for justice for several decades, the Kerala
 Government refused to take any action against the police team for this gross
 abuse, instead, appointed their head as the Chief Information Commissioner
 of Kerala (https://www.thehindu.com /news/national/sc-appoints-panel-to-look-
 into-harrowing-torture-of-nambi-narayanan/article24943213.ece). 38.The Law Commission in its 43rd Report (1971), summarized the difficulties
 encountered with the all inclusive nature of Section 5 of OSA, in the absence
 of a clear and concise definition of 'official secret', in the following words: 39.The Shourie Committee commented about OSA: "It is the Official Secrets
 Act that has been regarded in many quarters as being primarily responsible
 for the excessive secrecy in government. Its "Catch-all" nature has invited
 sustained criticism and demand for its amendment. Section 5 of this Act
 provides for punishment for unauthorized disclosure of Official secrets but
 omit to define secrets". The Shourie Committee recommended a
 comprehensive amendment of Section 5(1) to make the penal provisions of
 OSA applicable only to violations affecting national security. 40.Administrative Reforms Commission II has ultimately recommended: 41.In a response to Lok Sabha starred question No 557, 5.5.2015 a statement
 was laid on the table of the House by MoH, saying: 42.This answers two points: One- they have rejected all the recommendations
 to reform the OSA, two- it is clear that classification of documents have to be
 done by concerned ministry and that such classification is not under Official
 Secrets Act . How the documents are classified, then? The ARC II Report on
 RTI & OSA explained: The Government of India has issued detailed instructions pertaining to
 safeguarding information in its possession, the unauthorised disclosure of
 which would cause damage to national security or would cause
 embarrassment to the Government in its functioning or would be prejudicial
 to national interest. These instructions, which are contained in the Manual of
 Departmental Security Instructions and the Manual of Office Procedure, lay
 down guidelines to give a security classification to a record based on the
 degree of confidentiality required. They also describe the manner in which
 each of such classified information should be handled and the persons who
 can access such information. 4.1.2 The Shourie Committee considered the issue of classification of
 information and noted: "A major contributor to the lack of transparency
 is the tendency to classify information even where such classification
 is clearly unjustified. There is also the tendency to accord higher
 classification than is warranted. The Manual of Departmental Security
 Instructions 1966 (MoDSI), issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and
 the Manual of Office Procedure, which incorporates some of these
 instructions, do lay down the criteria and guidelines for classification and
 specify the authorities competent to authorise classification gradings viz. Top
 Secret, Secret and Confidential. While the criteria for classification have
 perhaps necessarily to be broad, it is desirable, in the interest of a proper

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 34
 approach to classification that they should be backed up by a suitable
 illustrative list for guidance of officers. While drawing up such a list, the
 principle to be adhered to is that ordinarily only such information, as would
 qualify for exemption under the proposed Freedom of Information Act , should
 be classified." 4.1.3 The Manual of Departmental Security Instructions deals with
 classification of documents and records involving national security and
 sensitive matters. Once information gets a security classification it moves out
 of the public domain. Even the RTI Act respects the need to keep certain
 information outside the public domain. Section 8 of the Act lists out the
 exemptions under which the PIO need not give information. However it is
 necessary to harmonise security classification with the provisions of the Act. 4.1.4 The task of classifying a document is vital in the larger national interest,
 and should be handled with great caution as any security classification denies
 access of information to public. Therefore only officers of sufficient seniority
 should be empowered to classify documents. Moreover under the existing
 instructions, information once classified continues to be so without any time
 limit. In other countries, even war secrets are brought into public domain
 after a lapse of a specified period, usually 30 years. It is therefore necessary
 to review such classified documents after a reasonable period of, say 30 years
 (the period can be even less in case of some documents). Those which do not
 merit classification should then be declassified and kept in the public domain. 4.1.5 Further, the hierarchy of security classification needs to be rationalised,
 reflecting the scheme of exemptions under the Act and emerging challenges. The Act has listed 11 categories ( section 8 and 9 ) of exemption wherein
 information may not be given out. These range from "information, disclosure
 of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the
 security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with
 foreign State or lead to incitement of an offence; to "infringement of
 copyright subsisting in a person". The Commission feels that the classification
 system should broadly cover each of these categories of information. It is
 quite possible that an information falls under two or more categories of
 exemptions. In that case the information should be given the classification of
 the higher order among the exemptions. 4.1.6 Although the 11 categories of information are fairly exhaustive and
 cover almost all possible situations for keeping information secret, some
 situations which demand secrecy seem to remain out of these exemptions like
 confidential reports of officials, and question papers of examinations. The
 Commission feels that information in these cases should also be covered by
 exemptions. CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 35
 The ARC finally recommended: (Paragraph 4.1.8): a. The GOI should amend
 the Manual of Departmental Security Instructions (MoDSI) in the following
 manner: classification must be limited to the minimum of persons concerned and in
 such cases it will be safer to err on the side of security. (II) Secret: This marking is reserved for papers which are of a nature that
 their disclosure to persons other than those whose duty is to have knowledge
 of them would cause administrative embarrassment or difficulty or internal

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 37
 breach of peace and amity or injury to the interest and prestige of the
 Government or would be of advantage to a foreign nation or enemy.
 NOTE: This is the highest classification ordinarily used for very important
 matters. (III) Confidential: This marking is reserved for papers containing
 information, the unauthorized disclosure of which, while not endangering
 national security, would be prejudicial to the interests of the nation, any
 government activity or individuals, or would cause administrative
 embarrassment or difficulty or be of an advantage to a foreign nation.
 NOTE: Most matters will, on proper analysis, be classified higher than
 Confidential". (IV) Personal - Not for Publication: This is reserved for communications
 to members of the public when it is desired to make it clear that these
 communications or the information contained therein should not be
 published. The words `Not for publication' are generally added. Nothing in this Office Manual tells us about the grade/rank of the officer who
 can classify documents in this manner. The only guideline given is that the
 officer must be authorized to handle documents of such sensitivity in order to
 be able to grade them. However, downgrading must be done by an officer of
 at least the same rank or higher. 45. The Public Records Act, 1993 and the Public Records Rules 1997, provided
 a mechanism for downgrading the security grading of sensitive documents
 and eventually sending them to the National Archives in a time bound
 manner. But it did not throw any light on the grade/rank of the officers
 qualified to classify or declassify documents in each department of the
 Government. The Supreme Court considered this aspect in the matter of S.
 P. Gupta vs President of India (para 72 in AIR 1982 SC149), Bhagwati, J
 (as he then was) explains: 46.Whether the Shastri's documents fit the criteria listed in the Manual for the
 security classification of 'Restricted? In none of the RTI cases referred above CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 38
 and in this case, in spite of CIC's direction the public authorities have
 explained who, why and how these documents of Shastri's death were
 classified, how long they remain classified, is there any effort to declassify.
 They have a duty to justify that release of these documents prejudicially
 affect the security sovereignty and integrity of India and relation with foreign
 state and even after half a century, they should remain restricted. Compared
 to Pentagon Papers, can the papers of Lal Bahadur Shastry's death be
 considered as threat to security or integrity of the nation or friendly relations
 with neighbours, as claimed? 47.The present Government has taken a historical decision to declassify 33 of
 Nethaji related files on 4th December 2015, thereafter 37 and 25 files and
 made 100 files digitally available on 23rd January 2016 to meet the long
 standing public demand to access these files. NAI has released 75
 declassified copies of Nethaji. Fourth batch of 25 files of 1968-2008 was
 launched on 27th May 2016, which can be accessed on abhilekh patal website
 of NAI at http://www.netajipapers.gov.in/. When Pentagon papers in US and
 Nethaji papers in India could be declassified why not Shastri papers also? Decision 48.In an earlier order referred above , the then Ld Chief Information
 Commissioner Sri Satyanand Misra has observed as follows: These are primarily the minutes of some meetings of the Cabinet and
 also contain a communication sent to the Home Ministry based on the decision
 taken in one of the meetings. We found that except for one sentence in one of
 the minutes containing a reference to the Mukti Bahini, rest of the
 documents contain no information which could be exempted from disclosure
 under any of the exemption provisions, especially those contained in Section
 8(1) (a) of the RTI Act. The sentence containing the reference to the
 Mukti Bahini should not be disclosed as, in our opinion; it may
 adversely affect India's relationship with a foreign State. Therefore, we do not
 see any reason why these 11 pages cannot be disclosed after deleting the lone
 sentence with the reference to the Mukti Bahini. We direct the CPIO of the
 Cabinet Secretariat to disclose these pages to the Appellant within 10 working

CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 39
 days from the receipt of this order, after making the necessary deletion as above
 (https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1148146/). 49.It is not known whether the CPIO of the Cabinet Secretariat furnished the
 pages after making deletion of one sentence. The Commission directs the
 CPIO of the Cabinet Secretariat to submit a report of compliance of above
 referred order of CIC and to provide those 11 pages to the appellant in this
 case marking a copy to this Commission, before 10th October 2018. 50.People's right to know the 'truth' behind the death of Shastri cannot be
 brushed aside on the ground of Section 8(1)(a) en bloc. In view of the
 startling incidents that followed the mysterious death, such as killing of his
 personal doctor and assistant in two separate 'accidents', disappearance of
 records of Rajya Sabha Committee's probe, and various significant points
 raised by Journalists Kuldip Nayar, Anuj Dhar, Soutik Biswas, Advocate
 Anoop Bose, Shastri's wife Mrs Lalitha, other family members, the
 Commission is of opinion that the Union Government has a duty to explain
 the nation why and how Lal Bahadur Shastri died in Tashkent. The
 Government representatives have not come up with any justification for
 continuing these documents 'secret' for unlimited period of time. They did
 not produce documents earlier claimed as 'classified' before the Commission,
 in spite of specific direction, to facilitate the Commission considering the
 claim of classification in terms of S 8(1)(a) of RTI Act and OSA. 51.Except a medical report, nothing is disclosed, and mystery is being allowed
 to persist. In view of the law of OSA, Manual of Departmental Security
 Instructions, reply given to Lok Sabha referred in Paragraphs 41-42 and the
 advice of the Supreme Court cited in paragraph 45, following information-
 questions emerge, which need to be answered by the concerned Ministries of
 the Government of India in response to RTI of appellant, family members of
 Shastri and the people; CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 40 a) As records are not being classified under OSA, and it is being done by individual
 ministry, which Ministry has classified the documents of Shastri? b) Whether Shastri's death related papers are classified as 'top secret', 'secret' or
 'confidential', on what basis? c) Which part of 8(1)(a) of RTI Act is invoked to deny and what is the justification
 for such invocation? d) What is the normal period for such classification? Whether any norms are
 guidelines prescribed? If yes, same shall be furnished. e) What is the period prescribed for classification of Shastri documents? f) Whether any ministry is considering declassification, if so what is the status? g) As per Section 10 of RTI Act, using doctrine of severability, the portion of
 document classified could be blocked or deleted. As the MoDSI cannot override RTI Act , and RTI overrides the MoDSI, the ministry which classified has a duty
 to provide such portion of information which his not hit by S 8-9 of RTI Act .
 Whether concerned Ministry would be disclosing that part of the information,
 which is not hit by Section 8(1)(a) ? For these doubts, serious questions, deaths and disappearance of records, the
 Commission directs the CPIOs of PMO, Ministry of External Affairs and
 Ministry of Home Affairs to place all those so-called 'classified papers' before
 the Honourable Prime Minister and the Home Minister, who are recommended
 to consider the fundamental right to know and demand of the people, family
 members of Lal Bahadur Shastri and opinion of legendary senior journalists like
 Late Kuldip Nayar, to declassify either through an expert Committee or by any
 other process to get the mystery probed and resolved. Even if they can prove
 that Shastri died by heart attack, that can answer the doubts of the people. 52. All the CPIOs and seniors of PMO, MEA and MHA have a duty to
 resolve this mystery and to provide to complete answer these frequent RTI
 requests to pay due respect to the most honest former Prime Minister of
 India, and the people who admire him. CIC/NAIND/C/2017/605263 Page 41 53. Though the complaint is valid and justified, because to above facts and
 circumstances, imposing penalty on any of the CPIOs will not be reasonable
 because the CPIOs do not hold the records or they are not in a position to
 secure the records or decide as the higher authorities have to decide
 whether to declassify those records. Hence, penalty proceedings are
 dropped. 54. The Commission recommends DoPT to initiate necessary steps on six heads of
 records to be transferred to NAI as sought by NAI in Para 7 above. 55. However the Commission finds it very difficult to get convinced about claim
 that there were no records with Rajya Sabha pertaining to probe by Raj Narain
 Committee into the death of Shastri initiated during Janata Government. The
 Parliament is known for meticulous maintenance of documents. Every word
 uttered in Parliament is recorded and kept in public domain, a humongous task
 the office is perfectly performing. Then how such a significant record
 disappeared? It may not be justified to hold the present or past CPIO liable
 for the absence of this record. But it is certainly worrying factor and the Rajya
 Sabha and Parliament as a whole should worry about. The Commission
 recommends the constitutional authorities in the Parliament to look
 into this matter and initiate measures including probing or finding means to
 secure those records, to prevent such loss of documents in future, and to
 reinforce the credibility of the institution. 56. The Commission dedicates this order to Late Kuldip Nayar. 57. Disposed of. SD/-