This appeal has been preferred by the assessee against final

order of assessment dated 28th September 2011 passed by the

Income Tax Officer, Ward 13(3), New Delhi (the "AO") pursuant to ITA No. 5191/Del/2011 AY 2007-08

the directions issued by the Hon'ble Dispute Resolution Panel

("DRP") vide order dated 19th August 2011. 2. Facts in brief are that the assessee is engaged in the

business of rendering transaction processing services, internet

and voice based customer care services to the customers of its

parent company. For the year under consideration, return

declaring total income of Rs 5,39,958/- was filed by the asseseee. During the course of assessment proceedings, the AO referred the

matter to the Transfer Pricing Officer ("TPO") for determination of

the Arm's Length Price (ALP) of the international transactions

entered into by the assessee with its Associated Enterprise (AE). The TPO, vide order dated 08th September 2010, proposed an

adjustment of Rs 10,86,36,486/-. The AO, thereafter, passed the

draft assessment order vide order dated 29th December 2010

assessing the total income of the assessee at Rs 10,91,76,440/-. The assessee, however, filed objections before the Hon'ble DRP. The Hon'ble DRP, vide order dated 19th August 2011, issued

certain directions to re-compute the ALP of the international

transactions. Pursuant to the directions issued by the Hon'ble

DRP, vide order dated 26th September 2011, the TPO directed

that a revised Transfer Pricing (TP) adjustment of Rs 2 ITA No. 5191/Del/2011 AY 2007-08

5,25,34,828/- be made in the instant case. Subsequently the AO

passed the final order of assessment dated 28th September, 2011

assessing the total income of the assessee at Rs 5,30,74,786/-. 2.1 Being aggrieved, the assessee is now in appeal before the

ITAT and the following grounds have been raised in the

appeal:- 3. At the outset, the Ld. AR submitted that Ground No. 1 was

a legal ground which needed to be adjudicated first before the

issues involved were taken up on merits. The Ld. DR had no

objection to the proposal and, therefore, ground no. 1 was taken

up first. 3.1 The Ld. AR submitted that assessment in this case has been

framed upon "M/s Noida Customer Operations P. Ltd. merged with

M/s WNS Global Services India Ltd" which is a non-existent

entity. It was submitted that, vide order dated 11th August 2009,

the Hon'ble Bombay High Court had directed for the

amalgamation of M/s Noida Customer Operations P. Ltd into M/s

WNS Global Services India Ltd and the cut-off date in this regard

was set as 01st April 2007. It was further submitted by the Ld AR

that this fact was duly intimated to the tax authorities. It was

submitted that, however, ignoring this, the AO, in the instant

case, framed the assessment on 28th September 2011, on Noida

Customer Operations P. Ltd which is a non-existing entity. It was

submitted by the Ld AR that this invalidated the order of 6 ITA No. 5191/Del/2011 AY 2007-08

assessment. In support of his claim Ld AR relied upon following

decisions: 971-HC-Del-IT (iii) Order dated 14th September 2012 passed by the

 Bangalore Bench of the ITAT in the case of M/s WNS Global

 Services Pvt Ltd (as successor to WNS Customer Solutions

 Pvt Ltd vs DCIT in ITA No. 1198/Del/2010). ( iv) CIT vs Micra India P. Ltd reported in 231 Taxman

 809(Del) (v) CIT vs Dimension Apparels Pvt Ltd reported in 2014-

 TIOL-1897-HC-Del 4. Opposing the above submissions, the Ld DR submitted that

the assessment in the instant case has been correctly framed. It

was submitted by the Ld DR that the AO in the instant case has

also mentioned the name of M/s WNS Global Services Private

Limited in the order of assessment. The Ld DR submitted that the 7 ITA No. 5191/Del/2011 AY 2007-08

Hon'ble DRP has appropriately dismissed the objection raised by

the assessee challenging the validity of assessment. 5. We have considered the rival submissions and the material

placed on record. It is seen that in the case of the assessee itself

for AY 2006-07 (i.e. the immediately preceding Assessment Year)

the ITAT had adjudicated an identical issue. In AY 2006-07 also,

the assessment was framed by the department on "M/s Noida

Customer Operations P. Ltd merged with M/s WNS Global Services

India Pvt Limited". While allowing the claim made by the assessee

the co-ordinate Bench of ITAT, Delhi followed the decision of the

Bangalore Bench of the ITAT in the case of M/s WNS Global

Services Pvt. Ltd (as successor to WNS Customer Solutions Pvt. Ltd) vs DCIT in ITA No. 1198/Del/2010 i.e. sister concern of the

assessee and which was also covered under the same scheme of

amalgamation approved by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court. It

was held by the co-ordinate Bench of ITAT, Delhi as under: "6. Having heard both the parties and having
 considered the rival contentions, we find that
 undisputedly the assessee company was in existence in
 Bangalore for the relevant previous year 2005-06 and it
 is the assessee who has filed its return of income for the
 assessment year 2006-07 on 25.11.2006, the notice u/s
 143(2) was issued on 4-10-2007 whereas the
 amalgamation of the assessee company with WNSGS
 has come into effect from the appointed date i.e. 1-4-
 2007. As soon as the scheme of amalgamation has been
 approved by the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay w.e.f. 1-
 4-2007, the assessee company ceased to exist from 1-4-
 2007. Therefore, issuance of notice u/s 143(2) prior to
 the order of the Bombay High Court will lose its
 significance as the assessee ceased to be in existence
 from a date prior to the date of notice issued u/s 143(2) . 7. We find that similar facts exist in case of Spice
 Entertainment Ltd. (supra) before the Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court. In the case of Spice Entertainment Ltd. also, the
 assessee therein had filed its return of income on 30-10- 9 ITA No. 5191/Del/2011 AY 2007-08

 2002 while the assessee amalgamated with MNSGS
 w.e.f. 1-7-2003. In the said case also, notice u/s 143(2) was issued by the AO on 18-10-2003 while the order of
 the Delhi High Court approving the amalgamation is 11-
 2-2004. The factum of amalgamation was brought to the
 notice of the AO therein and despite the same, the
 assessment was completed on 28-3-2005 framing the
 assessment on the amalgamation company. After
 considering the above facts of the case and the legal
 position thereon, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court held that
 after sanction of the scheme vide orders dated 11-2-
 2004, the Spice Entertainment ceases to exist w.e.f. 1-7-
 2003 and even if Spice had filed its return of income, it
 becomes incumbent upon the income-tax authority to
 substitute the successor in place of the said dead
 person. It was held that where the amalgamated
 company was not substituted and the AO made the
 assessment in the name of the Spice which was not an
 existing entity on the date of assessment, such
 proceedings would clearly be void in spite of the
 participation of the amalgamated company in the
 proceedings. It was held that such a defect is not a
 procedural irregularity which could be cured by invoking
 the provisions of 292B of the Act. The Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court finally held that as the returns were filed by
 Spice on the date when it was in existence, it would be
 permissible to carry out the assessment on the basis of
 those returns after taking proceedings afresh from the
 stage of issuance of notice u/s 143(2) of the Act by first
 substituting the name of the amalgamated company in
 place of the amalgamating company and then issue
 notice to the amalgamated company. It was however,
 made clear that such course of action can be taken by
 the AO only if it is still permissible as per law and has
 not become time-barred. 8. In the case before us also, we find that the
 assessee has been bringing to the knowledge of the AO
 and also the TPO and the DRP, the factum of
 amalgamation and also has prayed that the files may
 be transferred to the jurisdiction of the amalgamated
 company i.e. Mumbai for necessary action. However, we 10 ITA No. 5191/Del/2011 AY 2007-08

 find that the revenue has not taken any steps to
 substitute the amalgamating company with the
 amalgamated company. Mere change of name in the
 assessment order will not amount to substitution of the
 amalgamating company with the amalgamated
 company as submitted by the learned Departmental
 representative. Notice will have to be issued to and
 served upon the amalgamated company as it is only the
 AO who has jurisdiction over the amalgamated
 company, who can initiate and complete the
 assessment. In has been vigilant and consistent in
 bringing the facts of amalgamation to the notice of the
 revenue authorities from time to time without any delay.
 Because the revenue authorities have not taken any
 steps pursuant to said letters, it cannot be presumed
 that they have authority to complete the assessment on
 a non-existing assesee company. 9. In view of the same, respectfully following the
 decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Spice Entertainment Ltd. , (supra) we hold that the
 assessment on WNSCS, which is a non-existing
 company, is not valid. However, as the return of income
 was filed by WNSCS on the date when it was in
 existence, we hold that it would be permissible to carry
 out the assessment on the basis of the said return on
 the amalgamated company after initiating proceedings
 afresh from the stage of issuance of notice u/s 143(2) of
 Act after first substituting the name of WNSGS in place
 of WNSCS. However, as held by the Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case of Spice Entertainment, such a course
 of action can be taken by the AO only if it is still
 permissible as per law and has not become time barred.
 Since we have held that the assessment itself is void,
 we do not see any reason to adjudicate the other
 grounds of appeal." 5.1 The co-ordinate Bench of ITAT, Delhi, thereafter, also

followed the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of

Dimensions Apparels (supra) wherein it is held as under: It was argued lastly that the assessee had itself participated
 in the proceedings throughout and could not be heard to
 complain against the assessment order. The revenue relies on
 the Madras High Court ruling in Marshall Sons &
 Co. v. ITO [1992] 195 ITR 417. 5. The assessee contends that no question of law arises for
 consideration. It submits that the text and phraseology of Sections 170 (1) and (2) do not support the revenue's
 arguments. The assessee further relies on Saraswati
 Industrial Syndicate Ltd. v. CIT [1990] 186 ITR 278/53
 Taxman 92(SC) in support of its contentions and the findings
 of the tax authorities below, i.e. the CIT (A) and the
 ITAT. Spice Entertainment Ltd. v. CIT [ITA No. 475 of
 2011], decided by a Division Bench of this Court, as well as
 an earlier decision in CIT v. Vived Marketing Servicing (P .)
 Ltd. [IT Appeal No. 273 of 2009] were relied on by the
 assessee as well, in support of its contentions. It was also
 pointed out that the jurisdictional defect in this case could not
 be cured under Section 292-B of the Act. 6. Sections 170(1) and 170(2) of the Act do not assist the
 revenue in their case. The revenue does not contest that in a
 case of amalgamation, the predecessor (being a dissolved
 company) "cannot be found". Consequently, Section 170(2) applies. This provision clarifies that where the predecessor
 cannot be found, "the assessment of the income of the
 previous year in which the succession took place up to the
 date of the succession and of the precious year preceding
 that year shall be made on the successor in like manner and
 to the same extent as it would have been made on the
 predecessor." (Emphasis Supplied) 12 ITA No. 5191/Del/2011 AY 2007-08 7. The revenue seems to argue that the assessment is
 justified because the liabilities of the amalgamating company
 accrue to the amalgamated (transferee) company. While that
 is true, the question here is which entity must the assessment
 be made on. The text of Section 170(2) makes it clear that the
 assessment must be made on the successor (i.e., the
 amalgamated company). 8. The Supreme Court, in Saraswati Industrial Syndicate
 Ltd. (supra) held that, "after the amalgamation of the two
 companies the transferor company ceased to have any entity
 and the amalgamated company acquired a new status and it
 was not possible to treat the two companies as partners or
 jointly liable in respect of their liabilities and assets."
 (Emphasis Supplied) 9. With respect to the specific issue of assessment, in Vived
 Marketing Servicing (P.) Ltd. (supra) the Court observed that: 10. Vived Marketing Servicing (P.) Ltd. (supra) also noted
 that Section 176 of the IT Act, which contains provisions
 pertaining to a discontinuation of business, does not apply
 to a case of amalgamation/dissolution. It was also held that Section 159 of the Act, which provides for tax liability to be
 attached to the legal representatives of a deceased person, is
 likewise inapplicable. The language of Section 159 evidently
 only applies to natural persons, and cannot be extended,
 through a legal fiction, to the dissolution of companies. AY 2007-08 11. Marshall Sons and Co. (supra), is relied on by the
 revenue. It was held in that judgment that, "the transferor-
 company shall, with effect from the transfer date, be deemed
 to have carried on its business for and on behalf of the
 transferee-company and, accordingly, the profits and losses
 of the transferor- company for the period commencing from
 the transfer date, shall be deemed to be the profits or losses
 of the transferee-company and shall be available to the
 transferee-company for disposal in any manner." 12. That case, however, involved a controversy about the
 effective date of amalgamation, and not about whether an
 assessment of income can be made on an amalgamated
 company. In fact, the logic of the Madras High Court's
 decision undermines the Appellants' case. The Madras High
 Court found for the Revenue, because, in its opinion, the
 effective date of amalgamation came after the date of the
 assessment. The assessee argued that the date of
 amalgamation was January 1, 1982, whereas the
 assessment order was dated November 25, 1984. 13. The Madras High Court held that-- 14. On this basis, it held the Assessee liable. This obviously
 implies that had the company not been in existence at the
 time of the assessment order, it would not have been liable. 15. In Spice Entertainment Ltd. (supra), this Court, after
 discussing the law declared by the Supreme Court
 in Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. (supra) stated that: 16. The authority of the above precedent binds us; we see no
 reason to differ from the logic and reasoning in Spice
 Entertainment Ltd. (supra). AY 2007-08 17. The other aspect is as to the applicability of Section 292-
 B of the Act, which reads as follows: 18. The Revenue argues that the assessment was in
 substance and effect in conformity with the Act, because the
 Assessing Officer had used correct nomenclature in writing
 the name of the Assessee, along with the fact that the
 company had amalgamated, as well as the correct address of
 the amalgamated company. Consequently, they contend that
 "the mere omission, if any on the part of the AO to mention
 the name of the appellant/amalgamated company in place of
 M/s Dimension Apparel... [is]...therefore a procedural defect." 19. The question of whether an assessment upon an
 amalgamated company is a mistake within the meaning of Section 292B was raised and answered by the Delhi High
 Court in Spice Entertainment Ltd. (supra). In that case, the
 Tribunal had held that, "the assessment in substance and
 effect has been made against amalgamated company in
 respect of assessment of income of amalgamating company
 for the period prior to amalgamation and mere omission to
 mention the name of amalgamated company alongwith the
 name of amalgamating company in the body of assessment
 against the item "name of the assessee" is not fatal to the
 validity of assessment but is a procedural defect covered by Section 292B of the Act." (Emphasis Supplied) 16 ITA No. 5191/Del/2011 AY 2007-08 20. This Court rejected this argument, holding that, " it
 [becomes] incumbent upon the Income Tax Authorities to
 substitute the successor in place of the said 'dead person'.
 Such a defect cannot be treated as procedural defect... once it
 is found that assessment is framed in the name of non-
 existing entity it does not remain a procedural irregularity of
 the nature which could be cured by invoking the provisions of Section 292B of the Act." (Emphasis Supplied) 21. In Spice Entertainment Ltd. (supra) the reason for the
 inapplicability of Section 292-B was additionally premised on
 the decision of the Punjab & Haryana High Court
 in CIT v. Norton Motor , [2005] 275 ITR 595/146 Taxman
 701, that while Section 292B can cure technical defects, it
 cannot cure a "jurisdictional defect in the assessment
 notice. "In Spice Entertainment Ltd. (supra), therefore, this
 Court expressly classified "the framing of assessment against
 a non-existing entity/person" as a jurisdictional defect. This
 has been a consistent position. As early as 1960,
 in CIT v. Express Newspapers Ltd. [1960] 40 ITR 38 (Mad),
 the Madras High Court held that, "there cannot be an
 assessment of non-existent person. The assessment in the
 instant case was made long after the Free Press Company
 was stuck off from the register of the companies, and it could
 not be valid." (Emphasis Supplied) 22. On the last contention, i.e. with respect to participation
 by the previous assessee, i.e. the amalgamating company
 (which ceases to exist), again Spice Entertainment
 Ltd. (supra) is categorical; it was ruled on that occasion that
 such participation by the amalgamated company in
 proceedings did not cure the defect, because "there can be no
 estoppel in law." Vived Marketing Servicing (P.) Ltd. (supra)
 had also reached the same conclusion. 23. It is thus clear that all contentions sought to be urged by
 the revenue are in respect of familiar grounds, which have
 been ruled upon, against it, consistently in two decisions of
 this court. Therefore, no substantial question of law arises in
 this appeal." AY 2007-08

5.2 Finally it was concluded by Tribunal as under: 5.3 Since the facts of instant case are also same, respectfully

following the above binding precedents, it is held that the final

order of assessment dated 28th September 2011 passed by the

AO on "M/s Noida Customer Operations P. Ltd" which is a non- existing entity post order of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court

(approving the Scheme of Amalgamation) is bad in law and the

same is hence quashed. Since the order of assessment is itself

quashed we see no reason to adjudicate upon remaining grounds

of appeal. 6. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. The order is pronounced in the open court on 22.09.2017.