A bill to regulate crypto assets has been approved by the President of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro, after it was passed by the country’s Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, according to a report by Coindesk . The companies will have to comply with the provisions of the law within 180 days, the report added.

https://twitter.com/ToonSwapFinance/status/1607013425976066048

Why it matters: It is a significant development because Brazil is one of the biggest economies in the world and the biggest in South America. A stamp of approval from a country like Brazil goes a long way in offering legitimacy to the beleaguered space which has seen a steady erosion of trust in 2022.

The law can also prove to be useful in offering other countries, including India, a blueprint on how to approach crypto regulation.

What else do we know about the law: The bill puts in place a licensing framework for virtual asset service providers such as exchanges, CoinTelegraph reported. It added that the law has a provision to set a penalty for fraud involving virtual assets which carries a prison term of four to six years besides a fine.

What do companies have to keep in mind: A cursory glance at the draft law indicates that crypto providers have to adhere to the following guidelines:

Brief overview of the bill’s progression: The bill was first approved by Brazil’s lower house of Congress on November 29, 2022, as per Reuters . The bill had stipulated then that all crypto providers active “locally” would have to incorporate a physical entity in the country, the report added.

New law sets guidelines for how crypto exchanges operate in Brazil. This is a major step towards strengthening the crypto ecosystem.

Another great move that brings more credibility to this industry, improves user protection & targets mainstream adoption. https://t.co/aPaV3vs0M8

— CZ 🔶 BNB (@cz_binance) December 22, 2022

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event