SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Scam Alert, UPI fraud targeting small businesses. Please read and inform your family and friends. Almost got roped in myself.
DATE: 2024-05-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1cpf5eq/scam_alert_upi_fraud_targeting_small_businesses/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I was just sitting at the counter of my shop and suddenly got a call from some guy who claimed to be "Anil Kumar" from "Indian Army Airport Department (whom he was not) and then requested some pictures of clothing to buy, he said that it was for donating to certain orphanage and a discount would be very appreciated. He made a narrative where If I did a good job this time, I would get several such opportunities in the future ("easy income" bait).

After all the pictures were sent he selected some pieces and asked to have them delivered near the Airport Security Building in my city (17 kms away from my shop). I asked for payment upfront, he then insisted that I reach the location first and payment will be transferred via UPI only upon meeting with staff from his department. He sent me pictures attached to this post below, of his IDs, and asked for bill to be made by the name mentioned in the ID. To ensure it all felt real he asked for the delivery charges to be added to the bill. Upon seeing them I sensed something unnatural (after zooming in, it's clearly a scam). But well, I was bored and itching for a drive so I went there anyway to explore how they do it, and so I told him that since it's for donation purposes I would not charge a delivery fee and personally deliver the goods.

After billing and communicating a bit more I went to the airport and there they started trying to dupe me. As soon as I reached the location ,"Anil Kumar" said to wait outside and told me to wait for his subordinate to call me and transfer payment. After waiting for 7-8 minutes I got a call from another number and was told that my commercial UPI ID was not receiving payments and I would require a personal UPI app for receiving payment. I was told to tell them my ID and confirm a receipt of ₹5. But I insisted that I would receive SMS and do not need the app. Finally after arguing a bit he said If I cannot SCAN a Code, I can't receive the money, he told me to get the app or get him a friend's ID who has a UPI app. I knew that there is no recieving money by scanning a QR code. After wasting some more of both of our times I left and upon calling him back he started cursing me with foul language. I laughed hard.

I HOPE EVERYONE KNOWS THAT YOU CAN/WILL NOT RECEIVE MONEY ON SCANNING ANY UPI QR OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.

TLDR; Some guy claiming to be in the army contacted me and tried to do a UPI fraud.