R.F. NARIMAN, J. 1. The present civil appeals raise a challenge to certain

 clauses of the Telecommunication (Broadcasting and Cable)

 Services Interconnection (Addressable Systems) Regulations, Signature Not Verified 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the “Regulation”) notified on Digitally signed by R NATARAJAN Date: 2018.10.30 16:35:32 IST Reason: 3.3.2017 and the Telecommunication (Broadcasting and Cable) 1 Services (Eighth) (Addressable Systems) Tariff Order, 2017

(hereinafter referred to as the “Tariff Order”) dated 3.3.2017

made under the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act,

1997 (hereinafter referred to as the “ TRAI Act ”). Since

regulations made under the TRAI Act were under challenge, a

writ petition was filed before the Madras High Court in which the

main issues that arose before the Division Bench were as

follows:- 4. The third Judge who therefore resolved the controversy in

favour of the present respondents was M.M. Sundresh, J. After

an exhaustive analysis of the arguments and the Acts in

question, the third learned Judge sided with the Hon’ble Chief

Justice and held:- 5. Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on

behalf of the appellants, has referred to several statutes and

judgments in the course of his detailed submissions. According

to the learned Senior Advocate, the TRAI Act was amended in 8 2000, as a result of which the TRAI Act was extended to

broadcasting services which were undefined. By a Central

Government notification dated 9.1.2004, the TRAI Act was

expressly extended to broadcasting services, and certain

functions were allocated to TRAI in addition to those contained

in Section 11(1)(a) of the TRAI Act, as also to specify norms

and periodicity of revision of rates of pay channels. According

to the learned Senior Advocate, the definition of

“telecommunication service” contained in Section 2(1)(k) of the

TRAI Act only enables TRAI to regulate transmission or

reception of broadcasting services, which essentially relates to

regulatory measures taken for carriage of these signals. According to the learned Senior Advocate, his clients, namely,

broadcasters, do not have to obtain the permission of the

Government of India for uplinking their programmes with a

particular satellite at a particular frequency, after which

permission has to be obtained for downlinking such channels. At this point, the broadcaster, post downlinking, sends the

signal to a multi-system operator (hereinafter referred to as an 9 “MSO”), who in turn sends the signal to a cable TV operator

from which it is beamed to the ultimate consumer watching the

television programmes. For this, the broadcasters pay a

distribution fee and a carriage fee for transportation of such

signal, then send the signals to the MSO, who in turn sends it

on to the cable TV operator, who beams the signal to the

ultimate consumer. Distribution fee, carriage fee and

networking capacity fee are all payable by the broadcaster, with

which the broadcaster can have no quarrel. Equally, in a

situation where direct to home services are provided, instead of

the MSO one has persons, like, for example, TATA Sky, who

then beam the signal directly to the consumer via satellite. TRAI

under the TRAI Act cannot restrict pricing, bundling or

packaging done by the broadcaster, as TRAI’s functions kick in

under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as the “Cable TV Act”) only after the

signal reaches the Cable TV operator. According to the learned

Senior Advocate, at a stage anterior to the Cable TV operator

beaming signals to the consumers, the broadcasters’ rights are 10 not covered by the TRAI Act , which regulates only carriage, but

by the Copyright Act, 1957 , which regulates content. Dr.

Singhvi took us through the Statement of Objects and Reasons

for the TRAI Act , the Preamble thereof, and in particular Sections 2(1)(k) , 11 and 36 , to contend that this Act is

“carriage-centric”, and is thus limited to regulation of service in

transmission alone and does not extend to or include the

subject matter or content of the transmission. The Copyright

Act , on the other hand, is “content-centric” and deals with

intellectual property rights which broadcasters have in the form

of both copyright, as well as broadcast reproduction right inter

alia under Section 37 of the Copyright Act. He relied heavily on

the 2012 amendment to the Copyright Act , and in particular on

Chapter 8 of the said Act. According to him, tariff, which relates

to content, is governed by the Copyright Act and not by the TRAI Act , whereas transmission and delivery to the consumer,

namely, carriage, alone pertains to TRAI’s jurisdiction. According to him, the impugned clauses of the Regulation as

well as the Tariff Order impact and have the effect of regulating 11 pricing and terms and conditions of licensing of TV channels,

including their packaging, bundling and other manner of offering

the said channels and their underlying programmes, being

films, TV shows, etc., which are all aspects of intellectual

property rights covered by the Copyright Act . He relied heavily

upon the Sports Broadcasting Signals (Mandatory Sharing with

Prasar Bharati) Act, 2007 (hereinafter referred to as the

“ Sports Act ”), by way of contrast, and stated that in this Act the

definitions of “broadcaster”, “broadcasting”, “broadcasting

service” and “content” made it clear that the reach of this Act

was not merely confined to transmission of signal but extended

to content as well, and argued that the difference therefore in

the definitions contained in the Sports Act would show that the

reach of the TRAI Act in contrast was limited and did not go to

content. He also relied strongly upon the Cable TV Act and in

particular on the definitions of “broadcaster” and “cable

operator” therein, as well as Section 4A and 5 thereof, read with

the Rules framed thereunder, which would show that “content”

could certainly be regulated by TRAI under the Sports Act , but 12 only in the manner provided by that Act and from the stage of

the cable TV operator to the consumer and not before. It is

thus clear that this being the case, the aforesaid regulations are

outside the power of TRAI under the TRAI Act and must thus

be struck down. 6. Shri P. Chidambaram, learned Senior Advocate appearing

on behalf of some of the appellants, argued in support of Dr.

Singhvi. He referred, in particular, to the definitions contained

in Sections 2(dd) and 2(ff) of the Copyright Act and stated that

“broadcast” would only mean keeping in readiness a set of TV

channels, which may or may not be further carried by the MSO

of the Cable TV Operator. According to him, in substance, the

impugned Regulation and Tariff Order went beyond the

jurisdiction of TRAI under the TRAI Act in that they sought to

regulate “content” which would mean the original work such as

a book, which could then be made into a film and finally

broadcast by the appellants. Anything which impinges upon the

aforesaid “content” in terms of making, buying, packaging or

marketing, including licensing and assignment, would directly 13 be covered by the Copyright Act and would, therefore, be

outside the jurisdiction of the TRAI Act . He also strongly relied

upon the judgment of this Court in Petroleum and Natural Gas

Regulatory Board v. Indraprastha Gas Ltd. , (2015) 9 SCC

209, to state that in a parallel fact circumstance, no tariff could

be fixed by the Board for the commodity in question, but only

for carriage of the said commodity through pipelines. 7. Shri Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocate appearing

on behalf of TRAI, countered each of these submissions. According to the learned Senior Advocate, a reading of the TRAI Act , together with the Statement of Objects and Reasons,

would show that it was an Act conceived in the public interest in

order to protect the interests of both service providers like the

broadcasters here, as well as the consumers. Interest of the

consumers of broadcasting services is therefore one of the

paramount considerations when one comes to the authority or

jurisdiction of TRAI under the said Act. According to the

learned Senior Advocate, from the stage of the teleport from

which a TV channel is uplinked by a broadcaster to a satellite 14 and then downlinked to an MSO, permissions of the Central

Government have to be taken for both uplinking and

downlinking, under guidelines issued, which he took us through. The said guidelines would show that content is certainly

regulated at this stage, as TV channels which are contrary to

the security of the state, for example, would not be allowed to

be beamed. According to him, regardless of whether the

teleport from which the broadcaster’s signal is uplinked to a

satellite is owned by the broadcaster, or is beamed by a person

other than the broadcaster, a licence under Section 4 of the

Telegraph Act and Section 5 of the Wireless Telegraphy Act is

a sine qua non for operating a teleport and that therefore it is

wholly fallacious to say that broadcasters need not be licencees

under the Telegraph Act when they broadcast signals, either

from their own teleport, or in conjunction with the owner of a

teleport, which reach the ultimate consumer in India. According

to the learned Senior Advocate, therefore, a constricted reading

of the TRAI Act would stultify the nature of the beneficial

legislation contained therein, which is to look after consumer 15 interests as well. It is clear therefore that the definition of

“telecommunication service” in Section 2(1)(k) cannot be read

in the manner suggested by Dr. Singhvi, and would include,

when it comes to broadcasters, beaming and transmission of

signals from the teleport onwards right up till the stage of the

MSO and the cable TV operator thereafter. He stressed upon Section 11(1)(b) in particular and stated that in order to ensure

effective interconnection between different service providers, it

was necessary to lay down regulations made under Section 36 of the Act that balanced the interest of broadcasters with the

interest of consumers. He was at pains to point out that at no

stage does either the Regulation or the Tariff Order seek to

regulate, directly or indirectly, the content of the matter

contained in the television channel that is beamed. As an

example, he stated that neither the Regulation nor the Tariff

Order interferes with what could be beamed by the broadcaster,

but only to the manner of such beaming, keeping the interest of

both the broadcaster as well as the ultimate consumer in mind. He also took us through the consultation papers which 16 preceded the draft regulation which was framed, and pointed

out that most of what was contained in the impugned

Regulation and Tariff Order, was either requested by the

broadcasters themselves or suggested by them to safeguard

their interests, which TRAI has in principle followed. What is

interesting to note is that it was only at a later stage, before the

draft regulation was made, that references to content and the Copyright Act were made solely as an afterthought. He also

relied upon the Cable TV Act and stated that it was important to

note that it was the same regulator, namely, TRAI, who had to

regulate the same signal from broadcaster to MSO, MSO to

Cable TV operator and Cable TV operator to consumer. It

would be extremely anomalous to find that from Cable TV

operator onwards regulations such as those made by TRAI in

the present case would pass muster, but not from the stage of

broadcaster to MSO and MSO to Cable TV operator. He made

it clear that the Sports Act would have no application in the

present case as it dealt with the compulsory broadcast of

certain sports events by broadcasters, which was why content 17 was referred to in the said Act. He reiterated that at no stage

does TRAI seek to or in fact regulate content of what is

broadcasted so that any reference to this Act would be wholly

irrelevant for the purpose of deciding this case. He also

strongly relied upon Sections 3AA and 4 of the Telegraph Act to

buttress his submission. According to him, since the Copyright

Act operates in a distinct and separate field from the TRAI Act ,

equally the red herring of the Copyright Act would have no real

relevance to the powers and functions of TRAI acting under the TRAI Act . He also cited certain decisions which will be referred

to later in this judgment. 8. Shri Vikas Singh, learned Senior Advocate also appearing

on behalf of TRAI, referred to Section 2(1)(k) of the TRAI Act in

order to explain that the main provision and the proviso had to

be harmonised in the manner suggested by the Delhi High

Court in Star India Pvt. Ltd. v. TRAI, (2018) 146 DLT 455, and

that, so harmonised, it is clear that the main provision did not

include broadcasting services only for the time being. The

proviso which was added by the Amendment Act of 2000 made 18 it clear that the time had come to include broadcasting services

as well. He further argued that the appellants in the present

case had been taking contradictory stands throughout. As an

example of such stand, he referred to an Order of the

Competition Commission of India dated 27.2.2018, in which he

referred to the stand of the appellants stating that the

Competition Commission had no jurisdiction to look into pricing

and the manner of offering TV channels, which lies in the

domain of the sectoral regulator TRAI and is, therefore, an

occupied field. He also referred to how the analogue system

led to great leakages which led to less revenue and how the

movement towards digitisation, therefore, gave broadcasters a

great fillip in their revenue. He also referred to the

consultations that went on between all stakeholders and

consumers which led up to the impugned Regulation, which

was a Regulation which balanced the interests of broadcasters

and consumers. 9. Shri K.V. Vishwanathan, learned Senior Advocate appearing

on behalf of the multi-system operators, placed strong reliance 19 on Regulations 3(1) and 3(2) of the impugned Regulation,

which, according to him, have not been challenged by the

appellants. These regulations make it clear that the

broadcasters have to offer TV channels on a non-discriminatory

basis. The only reason why pricing is referred to in the

impugned Regulation is to fulfil Regulation 3(2) , which is to

ensure that the offer made is non-discriminatory and, therefore,

the Regulation and the Tariff Order read as a whole would, in

fact, not impact content at all but be regulations for carriage of

the signals stricto senso. He relied on judgments which held

that TRAI’s regulatory powers are extremely wide. He also

relied upon several provisions of the Copyright Act , including

Section 52(1)(b), which made it clear that there would be no

infringement of copyright, assuming the arguments of the

appellants to be correct, when there is transient or incidental

storage of a work or performance purely in the technical

process of electronic transmission or communication to the

public. 10. Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate, appeared on

behalf of direct-to-home companies. He referred to and relied

upon various provisions of the Copyright Act , in particular, Section 37 thereof, making it clear that the broadcast

reproduction right referred to is born only after the broadcast

which has passed down from the broadcaster through the MSO

to the cable operator to the consumer and/or through the DTH

service provider to the consumer is over. He stressed the fact

that this right comes in only when a re-broadcast or a

subsequent second broadcast takes place after the original

broadcast, which would not be covered by the Regulation or the

Tariff Order in the present case. 11. Shri Krishnan Venugopal, learned Senior Advocate

appearing for some of the consumers, referred to the Standing

Committee of Parliament, in which it was pointed out that

digitisation of cable TV services, by switching from the older

analogue system in phases from 2012 onwards, had greatly

increased the revenue of broadcasters and stated that these

benefits could not possibly be denied by the broadcasters. In 21 addition, the selfsame broadcasters have been regulated

throughout and are raising questions relating to jurisdiction only

after the present Regulation and Tariff Order have been made

largely with their consent. He also cited certain decisions on

the reach of TRAI under the TRAI Act . 12. Having heard learned counsel for the parties, it is

important to first deal with the TRAI Act . In Secretary, Ministry

of Information & Broadcasting, Govt. of India & Ors. v. Cricket Association of Bengal, (1995) 2 SCC 161, this Court

referred to the pressing need to create a comprehensive

enactment regulating airwaves, being public property. Public

interest demanded that service providers be regulated and the

usage of the airwaves through frequencies be regulated. A

direction was thus issued to the Government of India to

formulate a comprehensive enactment after noting the

inadequacies that were felt in the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 . This Court stated: visual impact, and its widest reach covering the
section of the society where the print media does
not reach. The right to use the airwaves and the
content of the programmes therefore, needs
regulation for balancing it and as well as to prevent
monopoly of information and views relayed, which is
a potential danger flowing from the concentration of
the right to broadcast/telecast in the hands either of
a central agency or of few private affluent
broadcasters. That is why the need to have a
central agency representative of all sections of the
society free from control both of the Government
and the dominant influential sections of the society.
xxx xxx xxx 120. … Hence every citizen has a right to use the
best means available for the purpose. At present,
electronic media, viz., T.V. and radio, is the most
effective means of communication. …
xxx xxx xxx 122. We, therefore, hold as follows: Except Section 4(1) and the definition of telegraph,
 no other provision of the Act is shown to have any
 relevance to broadcasting media. It is, therefore,
 imperative that the parliament makes a law placing
 the broadcasting media in the hands of a
 public/statutory corporate or the corporations, as the
 case may be. This is necessary to safeguard the
 interests of public and the interests of law as also to
 avoid uncertainty, confusion and consequent
 litigation.” 13. Accordingly, the Government formulated a National

Telecom Policy in 1994 and then decided to promulgate an 25 ordinance which led to the enactment of the TRAI Act . The

Statement of Objects and Reasons of this Act stressed: At the time of consideration of the aforesaid Bill in
 Rajya Sabha, having regard to the sentiments
 expressed by the Members of Rajya Sabha and of
 the views of the Standing Committee on
 Communication which expressed a hope that steps
 will be taken to set up a Statutory Authority, it is 26 proposed to set up the Telecom Regulatory
Authority of India as a statutory authority. 3. The proposed Authority will consist of a
Chairperson and minimum two and maximum four
members. A person who is or has been a Judge of
the Supreme Court or Chief Justice of a High Court
will be eligible to be appointed as a Chairperson of
the authority. A member shall be a person who has
held as the post of Secretary or Additional Secretary
to the Government of India or any equivalent post in
the Central Government or the State Government
for minimum period of three years. 4. The powers and functions of the Authority, inter
alia, are- 5. The Authority shall have an inbuilt dispute
 settlement mechanism including procedure to be
 followed in this regard as well as a scheme of
 punishment in the event of non-compliance of its
 order. 6. The Authority will have to maintain transparency
 while exercising its powers and functions. The
 powers and functions would enable the Authority to
 perform a role of watchdog for the telecom sector in
 an effective manner. 7. In order that the Authority functions in a truly
 independent manner and discharges its assigned
 responsibilities effectively, it is proposed to vest the
 Authority with a statutory status. 8. As the Parliament was not in session, the
 President promulgated the Telecom Regulatory
 Authority of India Ordinance, 1996 on the 27th
 January, 1996 for the aforesaid purpose. 9. The Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.”
 (Emphasis supplied.) 14. The said Act was amended by Act 2 of 2000, which

substituted the Preamble of the TRAI Act thus: 15. The Amendment Act of 2000 added a proviso to the

definition of “telecommunication service” under Section 2(1)(k) ,

permitting the Central Government to notify other services to be

telecommunication services including broadcasting services. The relevant provisions of the TRAI Act are, therefore, set out

hereinbelow: Provided that the Central Government may notify
other service to be telecommunication service
including broadcasting services. xxx xxx xxx 11. Functions of Authority.— (1) Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Indian Telegraph Act,
1885 (13 of 1885), the functions of the Authority
shall be to— (a) make recommendations, either suo motu or on a
request from the licensor, on the following matters,
namely:— (i) need and timing for introduction of new
 service provider; (ii) terms and conditions of licence to a service
 provider; (iii) revocation of licence for non-compliance
 of terms and conditions of licence; (iv) measures to facilitate competition and
 promote efficiency in the operation of
 telecommunication services so as to facilitate
 growth in such services; (v) technological improvements in the services
 provided by the service providers; (vi) type of equipment to be used by the
 service providers after inspection of
 equipment used in the network; (vii) measures for the development of
 telecommunication technology and any other
 matter relatable to telecommunication industry
 in general; (viii) efficient management of available
 spectrum; (b) discharge the following functions, namely:— (i) ensure compliance of terms and conditions
 of licence; (ii) notwithstanding anything contained in the
 terms and conditions of the licence granted
 before the commencement of the Telecom
 Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment)
 Act, 2000, fix the terms and conditions of
 inter-connectivity between the service
 providers; (iii) ensure technical compatibility and
 effective inter-connection between different
 service providers; (iv) regulate arrangement amongst service
 providers of sharing their revenue derived
 from providing telecommunication services; (v) lay-down the standards of quality of
 service to be provided by the service
 providers and ensure the quality of service
 and conduct the periodical survey of such
 service provided by the service providers so
 as to protect interest of the consumers of
 telecommunication service; (vi) lay-down and ensure the time period for
 providing local and long distance circuits of
 telecommunication between different service
 providers; (vii) maintain register of inter-connect
 agreements and of all such other matters as
 may be provided in the regulations; (viii) keep register maintained under clause (vii) open for inspection to any member of
 public on payment of such fee and compliance
 of such other requirement as may be provided
 in the regulations; (ix) ensure effective compliance of universal
 service obligations; (c) levy fees and other charges at such rates and in
respect of such services as may be determined by
regulations; (d) perform such other functions including such
administrative and financial functions as may
entrusted to it by the Central Government or as may
be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act: section (1), or sub-section (2) the Authority shall not
act against the interest of the sovereignty and
integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly
relations with foreign States, public order, decency
or morality. (4) The Authority shall ensure transparency while
exercising its powers and discharging its functions.
xxx xxx xxx 36. Power to make regulations.— (1) The
Authority may, by notification, make regulations
consistent with this Act and the rules made
thereunder to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing power, such regulations
may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely :— (a) the times and places of meetings of the Authority
and the procedure to be followed at such meetings
under sub-section (1) of Section 8 , including
quorum necessary for the transaction of business; (b) the transaction of business at the meetings of
the Authority under sub-section (4) of Section 8 ; (c) [* * *] (d) matters in respect of which register is to be
maintained by the Authority under sub-clause (vii) of
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 11 ; (e) levy of fee and lay down such other
requirements on fulfilment of which a copy of 34 register may be obtained under sub-clause (viii) of
 clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 11 ; (f) levy of fees and other charges under clause (c)
 of sub-section (1) of Section 11 .” 16. The proviso to section 2(1)(k) was challenged in the Delhi

High Court, which challenge was repelled by the Delhi High

Court in Star India Private Limited v. TRAI & Ors., (supra.). An SLP from the said judgment was also dismissed. Acting

under Section 2(1)(k) , the Central Government issued two

notifications on 9.1.2004. S.O.44(E) reads as follows:- Explanation – For the purposes of this clause,
‘addressable system’ with its grammatical variation,
means an electronic device or more than one
electronic devices put in an integrated system
through which signals of cable television network
can be sent in encrypted or unencrypted form,
which can be decoded by the device or devices at
the premises of the subscriber within the limits of
authorisation made, on the choice and request of
such subscriber, by the cable operator for that
purpose to the subscriber. (b) the parameters for regulating maximum
 time for advertisements in pay channels as
 well as other channels. (2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-
section (2) of section 11 of the Act, also to specify
standard norms for, and periodicity of, revision of
rates of pay channels, including interim measures.
[Notification No. 39 issued by Ministry of
Communication and Information Technology, dated
9 January 2004, S.O. No. 45(E) issued by TRAI,
vide F.No. 13-1/2004]” 36 17. We are concerned with the impugned Regulation that was

framed on 3.3.2017 under Section 36 of the Act together with

the Tariff Order made on the same date. The regulations with

which we are directly concerned are set out hereunder: condition for providing signals, such pre-condition
shall also amount to imposition of unreasonable
condition. Explanation: For removal of doubt, it is clarified that
if a pay broadcaster offers discount, in non-
discriminatory manner, through its reference
interconnect offer on the maximum retail price of
pay channel, within the limit as specified in sub-
regulation (4) of regulation 7, to distributors of
television channels for placing the channel in any
specified position in the electronic programme guide
or assigning particular channel number, such offer
of discount shall not be considered a pre-condition.
(4) No broadcaster shall propose, stipulate or
demand for, directly or indirectly, packaging of the
channel in any particular bouquet offered by the
distributor of television channels to subscribers.
(5) No broadcaster shall propose, stipulate or
demand for, directly or indirectly, guarantee of a
minimum subscriber base or a minimum
subscription percentage for its channel or bouquet.
Explanation: For removal of doubt, it is clarified that
the subscription percentage of a channel or bouquet
refers to the percentage of subscribers subscribing
to a specific channel or bouquet out of average
active subscriber base of a distributor.
xxx xxx xxx 6. Compulsory offering of channels on a-la-carte
basis. - (1) Every broadcaster shall offer all its
television channels on a-la-carte basis to the
distributors of television channels: 7. Publication of reference interconnection offer
by broadcaster for pay channels.— (1) Every
broadcaster shall publish, on its website, reference
interconnection offer, in conformance with the
regulations and the tariff orders notified by the
Authority, for providing signals of all its pay
channels to the distributor of television channels— (a) within sixty days of commencement of
 these regulations; and (b) before launching of a pay channel. and
 simultaneously submit, for the purpose of
 record, a copy of the same to the Authority.
(2) The reference interconnection offer, referred to
in sub-regulation (1), shall contain the technical and
commercial terms and conditions relating to,
including but not limited to, maximum retail price per
month of pay channel, maximum retail price per
month of bouquet of pay channels, discounts, if any,
offered on the maximum retail price to distributors,
distribution fee, manner of calculation of
'broadcaster’s share of maximum retail price', genre
of pay channel and other necessary conditions: regulation (8), the broadcaster shall give an option
to all distributors, with whom it has written
interconnection agreements in place, within thirty
days from the date of such amendment and it shall
be permissible to such distributors to enter into
fresh interconnection agreement in accordance with 41 the amended reference interconnection offer, within
thirty days from the date of receipt of such option, or
continue with the existing interconnection
agreement. xxx xxx xxx 10. Interconnection agreement between
broadcaster and distributor of television
channels.— (1) No broadcaster shall provide
signals of pay channels to a distributor of television
channels without entering into a written
interconnection agreement with such distributor of
television channels. (2) No distributor of television channels shall
distribute pay channels of any broadcaster without
entering into a written interconnection agreement
with such broadcaster. (3) It shall be mandatory for a broadcaster and a
distributor of television channels to enter into written
interconnection agreement on a-la-carte basis for
distribution of pay channels. xxx xxx xxx 11. Territory of interconnection agreement.— (1)
The interconnection agreement signed between a
broadcaster and a multi-system operator shall
include the following details for describing the
territory for the purpose of distribution of signals of
television channels – (a) the registered area of operation of the
 multi-system operator as mentioned in the
 registration granted by the Central
 Government; (b) the names of specific areas for which
 distribution of signals of television channels 42 has been agreed, initially, at the time of
 signing of the interconnection agreement; and (c) the names of the corresponding states/
 union territories in which such agreed areas
 as referred in clause (b) of this sub-regulation
 are located. (2) It shall be permissible to the multi-system
operator to distribute the channels beyond the areas
agreed under sub-regulation (1), by giving a written
notice to the broadcaster, after thirty days from the
date of receipt of such written notice by the
broadcaster and the said notice shall deemed to be
an addendum to the existing interconnection
agreement: system operator during the said thirty days notice
period: Provided that any objection by the
broadcaster, which is unreasonable, shall be
deemed to constitute a denial of provisioning of
signals beyond the areas agreed under the clause (b) of sub-regulation (1).” 43 18. The relevant clauses of the Tariff Order with which we are

directly concerned are set out hereunder: 4. Declaration of network capacity fee and
manner of offering of channels by distributors
of television channels.--- (1) Every distributor of
television channels shall declare network capacity
fee, per month, payable by a subscriber for availing
a distribution network capacity so as to receive the
signals of television channels: same channel cannot be
 in same bouquet. 3. Proviso to 7(2) - Impinges upon broadcaster's
 Bundling of third party ability to package a TV
 channels prohibited. channel. No such restriction on
 broadcaster under Copyright
 Act . 4. 7(4) - Broadcaster can Directly regulates the pricing of
 offer discounts to a TV channel, thereby also
 distributor not exceeding regulating pricing of individual
 15% of MRP. programmes. 5. First proviso to 7(4) - Directly regulates the pricing of
 Sum of discount under a TV channel, thereby also
 7(4) and distribution fee regulating pricing of individual
 under 7(3) shall not programmes. exceed 35% of MRP. 6. 10(3) r/w 6(1) - Impinges upon broadcaster's
 Mandatory to enter into freedom to offer pay channels
 agreement with DPO on only as a part of bouquet and
 an a-la-carte basis for not as a-la-carte. No such
 pay channels. restriction on broadcaster
 under Copyright Act . 7. 11(2) - Deemed Directly impinges the
 extension of broadcaster's right under 19(2)
 geographical territory. to designate the geographical
 territory of exploitation. Provisions of the Tariff Order which regulate content
Sl. Provision Ground
No. 1. 3(1) - All channels to be Impinges upon broadcaster's
 offered on a-la-carte ability to package a TV
 basis channel. No such restriction
 on broadcaster under Copyright Act . 2. 3(2)(b) - Declaration of Impinges upon broadcaster's
 MRP of a-la-carte freedom to offer pay channels
 channel only as a part of bouquet and
 not as a-la-carte. No such
 restriction on broadcaster
 under Copyright Act . 3. Second proviso to Under Section 33A read with
 3(2)(b) - MRP of all pay Rule 56 of the Copyright
 channels to be uniform Rules, 2013, broadcaster has
 across distribution the right to decide separate
 platforms. MRP for different category of
 audience. 4. First proviso to 3(3) - Impinges upon broadcaster's
 Bundling of third party ability to package a TV
 channels prohibited. channel. For example, third
 party channels cannot be part
 of the same bouquet. No
 such restriction on
 broadcaster under Copyright
 Act . 5. Second proviso to 3(3) - Directly regulates the pricing
 MRP of pay channel in of a TV channel, thereby also 51 bouquet not to exceed regulating pricing of individual
 INR 19/- programmes. 6. Third proviso to 3(3) - Directly regulates the pricing
 Bouquet price shall not of a TV channel, thereby also
 be less than 85% of the regulating pricing of individual
 sum of a-la-carte prices programmes. of individual channels in
 the bouquet. 7. Fourth proviso to 3(3) - Under Rule 56 of the
 MRP of all bouquets to Copyright Rules, 2013,
 be uniform across broadcaster has the right to
 distribution platforms. decide separate MRP for
 different category of
 audience. 8. Fifth proviso to 3(3) - Impinges upon broadcaster's
 Bouquet of pay channels ability to package a TV
 shall not have free-to-air channel. No such restriction
 channels. on broadcaster under Copyright Act . 9. Sixth proviso to 3(3) - Impinges upon broadcaster's
 HD and SD variant of ability to package a TV
 same channel cannot be channel. No such restriction
 in same bouquet. on broadcaster under Copyright Act . 10. 3(4) - Restriction on All these restrictions impinge
 promotion of bouquets, broadcaster's ability to
 restriction on time, commercially monetize his
 restriction on frequency. content. 11. 4(2) - Distributor to offer Indirectly impinges upon the
 all channels on a-la-carte broadcaster's right to offer his
 basis. channels to the customers
 only as a bouquet and not as
 a-la-carte.” 20. Since the Regulation made under Section 36 of the said

Act is under challenge, it must first be stressed that a restrictive

meaning cannot be given to the words “regulation” or “regulate”,

as otherwise the very object of the Act would be stultified. In 52 Deepak Theater v. State of Punjab , 1992 Supp (1) SCC 684,

a case which related to the Punjab Cinemas (Regulation) Act,

1952 and Rules, this Court referred to the power of licensing

and regulation under the said Act as follows: Though the right to fix rates of admission is a
 business incident, the appellant having created an
 interest in the general public therein, it has become
 necessary for the State to step in and regulate the
 activity of fixation of maximum rates of admission to
 different classes, as a welfare weal. Thereby
 fixation of rates of admission became a legitimate
 ancillary or incidental power in furtherance of the
 regulation under the Act. Access to and admission
 into theatre is a facility and concomitant right to a
 cinegoing public. Classification of seats and fixation
 of rates of admission according to paying capacity 53 of a cinegoer is also an integral power of regulation. Power to fix rates of admission includes power to
 amend and revise the rates from time to time. The
 statute vests that power in the licensing authority
 subject to control by the State Government. The
 fixation of the rates of admission has thus become
 an integral and essential part of the power and
 regulation of exhibition of cinematograph.”
 (Emphasis supplied.) 21. In BSNL v. TRAI, (2014) 3 SCC 222, this Court held: section (1) thereof TRAI can make regulations to
carry out the purposes of the TRAI Act specified in
various provisions of the TRAI Act including Sections 11 , 12 and 13 . The exercise of power
under Section 36(1) is hedged with the condition
that the regulations must be consistent with the TRAI Act and the rules made thereunder. There is
no other restriction on the power of TRAI to make
regulations. In terms of Section 37 , the regulations
are required to be laid before Parliament which can
either approve, modify or annul the same. Section
36(2) , which begins with the words “without
prejudice to the generality of the power under sub-
section (1)” specifies various topics on which
regulations can be made by TRAI. Three of these
topics relate to meetings of TRAI, the procedure to
be followed at such meetings, the transaction of
business at the meetings and the register to be
maintained by TRAI. The remaining two topics
specified in clauses (e) and (f) of Section 36(2) are
directly referable to Sections 11(1)(b)(viii) and 11(1)(c) . These are substantive functions of TRAI.
However, there is nothing in the language of Section 36(2) from which it can be inferred that the
provisions contained therein control the exercise of
power by TRAI under Section 36(1) or that Section
36(2) restricts the scope of Section 36(1) .”
 (Emphasis supplied.) 58 22. However, learned counsel for the appellants relied upon

Cellular Operators Assn. of India v. TRAI, (2016) 7 SCC 703

and, in particular, paragraph 41 thereof, which reads as follows: 23. What is important to note from this judgment is that the

balance that was sought to be maintained between protecting

the interest of service providers and consumers was destroyed

by the impugned regulations. What is important from our point

of view, however, is that under Section 36 of the TRAI Act, the

Authority is empowered to carry out the purposes of the said

Act as can be discerned from the Preamble to the Act. What is

clear from the amended Preamble to the Act is that the

interests of service providers and consumers are of paramount

importance, both of which have a role to play when regulations

are framed under Section 36 . 24. Learned counsel for the appellants also relied upon

Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board v. Indraprastha Gas Ltd. (supra.). In this case, the Petroleum

and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006 was the subject

matter of discussion by this Court. This Court, after construing

the Act, held that where there is a cassus omissis, such lacuna

cannot be filled up by the judicial interpretative process. Thus,

entities which are neither “common carriers” nor “contract

carriers” within the tariff regulating powers of the Board under

the Act were not held amenable to regulation. Further, the

reach of the Act, as is clear from a reading of Sections 20 to 22 would make it clear that transportation tariffs for common

carriers and contract carriers alone could be regulated by the

Board. This would naturally not include a regulation which will

pertain to network tariff for city or local gas distribution network

as such a network is neither a common carrier nor a contract

carrier covered by the Act. Further, the laying down of the

compression charge for CNG gas would also, therefore, be

wholly outside the reach of the said Act. This judgment again 61 has no application to the facts of the present case, given the

fact that the Preamble read with Section 11(2) makes it clear

that the Regulation and Tariff Order made thereunder would

both be within the reach of TRAI under the TRAI Act . 25. At this stage, it is also important to set out some of the

provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 . This Act was

amended in 2004 to include Section 3(1AA) . The relevant

sections of this Act are set out hereinbelow: Explanation.— The payments made for the grant of
a licence under this sub-section shall include such
sum attributable to the Universal Service Obligation
as may be determined by the Central Government
after considering the recommendation made in this
behalf by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
established under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 (24
of 1997). (2) The Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, delegate to the telegraph
authority all or any of its powers under the first
proviso to sub-section (1). The exercise by the telegraph authority of any
power so delegated shall be subject to such
restrictions and conditions as the Central
Government may, by the notification, think fit to
impose.” 63 26. Sections 2(2) and 5 of the Indian Wireless Telegraphy

Act, 1933 are also set out hereinbelow: 27. It is clear that only a person who is licensed under Section 5 of the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act can use a

teleport from India from which a TV channel is to be uplinked to

a satellite. Equally, to be uplinked to a satellite and thereafter

downlinked from such satellite to an MSO, permission would be 64 required from the Central Government. This would be clear

from a reading of the separate guidelines for uplinking and

downlinking channels issued by the Government of India. 28. So far as the uplinking guidelines are concerned, on

5.12.2011, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting

(Broadcasting Wing) set out detailed conditions by which the

uplinking of TV channels may be made. Under Clause 5.9 of

the said guidelines, the Government of India shall have the right

to suspend the permission of a company for a specified period

in the public interest, or in the interest of national security, to

prevent misuse. 29. Similarly, insofar as the policy guidelines for downlinking

of TV channels is concerned, the Ministry has given detailed

guidelines of the same date, i.e., 5.12.2011. Among other

things, it is stated:- Provided that the Government may waive/modify
the condition under clause 2.4.1 on a case-by-case
basis. xxx xxx xxx 5. BASIC CONDITIONS/OBLIGATIONS
5.1. The Company permitted to downlink
registered channels shall comply with the
Programme and Advertising Code prescribed under
the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act,
1995 . 5.2. The company shall ensure compliance of the
provisions of Sports Broadcasting Signals
(Mandatory sharing with Prasar Bharati) Act 11 of
2007 and the Rules, Guidelines, Notifications issued
thereunder. 5.3. The applicant company shall adhere to any
other Code/Standards guidelines/restrictions
prescribed by Ministry of Information &
Broadcasting, Government of India for regulation of
content on TV channels from time to time.
5.4. The applicant company shall submit audited
annual accounts of its commercial operations in
India. 5.5. The applicant company shall obtain prior
approval of the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting before undertaking any upgradation, 66 expansion or any other changes in the downlinking
and distribution system/network configuration.
5.6. The applicant company shall provide Satellite
TV Channel signal reception decoders only to
MSO/Cable Operators registered under the Cable
Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995 or to a
DTH operator registered under the DTH guidelines
issued by Government of India or to an Internet
Protocol Television (IPTV) Service Provider duly
permitted under their existing Telecom License or
authorized by Department of Telecommunications
or to a HITS operator duly permitted under the
policy guidelines for HITS operators issued by
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting,
Government of India to provide such service.
5.7. The applicant company shall ensure that any
of its channels, which is unregistered or prohibited
from being telecast or transmitted or re-transmitted
in India, under the Cable Television Networks
(Regulation) Act 1995 or the DTH guidelines or any
other law for the time being in force, cannot be
received in India through encryption or any other
means. 5.8. The Union Government shall have the right to
suspend the permission of the company/registration
of the channel for a specified period in public
interest or in the interest of National security to
prevent the misuse of the channel. The company
shall immediately comply with any direction issued
in this regard. 5.9. The applicant company seeking permission to
downlink a channel shall operationalise the
channels within one year from the date of the
permission being granted by the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting failing which the
permission will liable to be withdrawn without any 67 notice in this regard. However, the company shall
be afforded a reasonable opportunity of being heard
before such a withdrawal. 5.10. The company/channel shall adhere to the
norms, rules and regulations prescribed by any
regulatory authority set up to regulate and monitor
the Broadcast Services in the country,
5.11. The applicant company shall give intimation to
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting regarding
change in the directorship, key executives or foreign
direct investment in the company, within 15 days of
such a change taking place. It shall also obtain
security clearance for such changes in its directors
and key executives. 5.12. The applicant company shall keep a record of
programmes downlinked for a period of 90 days and
to produce the same before any agency of the
Government as and when required. 5.13. The applicant company shall furnish such
information as may be required by the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting from time to time.
5.14. The applicant company shall provide the
necessary monitoring facility at its own cost for
monitoring of programmes or content by the
representative of the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting or any other Government agency as
and when required. 5.15. The applicant company shall comply with the
obligations and conditions prescribed in the
downlinking guidelines issued by the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting, and the specific
downlinking permission agreement and registration
of each channel. 5.16. In the event of any war, calamity/national
 security concerns, the Government shall have the
 power to prohibit for a specified period the
 downlinking/reception/transmission and re-
 transmission of any or all channels. The Company
 shall immediately comply with any such directions
 issued in this regard.” 30. We are of the view that the provisions of the TRAI Act have to be viewed in the light of protection of the interests of

both service providers and consumers. This being so, it is clear

that no constricted meaning can be given to the provisions of

this Act. It is important to remember that under Section

11(1)(a)(iv) , one of the functions of the Authority, though

recommendatory, is to facilitate competition and promote

efficiency in the operation of telecommunication services (which

includes broadcasting services) so as to facilitate growth in

such services. What is also clear from Section 11(1)(b) , is that

terms and conditions of interconnectivity between different

service providers have to be fixed, which necessarily includes

terms that relate not only to carriage simpliciter as submitted by

Dr. Singhvi, but to all terms and conditions of interconnectivity

between broadcaster, MSO, Cable TV operator and the 69 ultimate consumer, so as to ensure that the object of the Act is

carried out, namely, that both broadcasters and consumers get

a fair deal. Towards this end, Section 11(2) makes it clear that

the Authority may, from time to time, notify the rates at which

telecommunication services, including broadcasting services,

within India and outside India, shall be provided under this Act. Dr. Singhvi argued that the literal language of this sub-section,

which would undoubtedly bring in rates laid down in the Tariff

Order, would have to be constricted by the language of the last

part of the provision, viz., “including the rates at which

messages shall be transmitted to any country outside India”. We are afraid that this is against basic canons of construction,

as the expression “including” would only refer to a part of what

precedes the expression and cannot therefore constrict the part

that has gone before. The plain literal language of Section

11(2) makes it clear that rates at which broadcasting services

are offered within and outside India can be fixed by TRAI. It is

clear therefore that when rates are fixed after several rounds of

consultations between various service providers and 70 consumers, looking to the interest of each, it is impossible to

say that any broadcaster’s rights have been impinged upon. Shri Dwivedi is absolutely right in saying that at no stage is

content of a TV channel sought to be regulated, and that pricing

relating to TV channels laid down in the Regulation and Tariff

Order is a balancing act between the rights of broadcasters and

the interests of consumers, which we may hasten to add has

not been impugned on the ground that any right or fundamental

right is violated, but only on the ground that the Regulation as

well as the Tariff Order are outside the “jurisdiction” of TRAI. Dr. Singhvi’s argument on this score must therefore fail. 31. In fact, in Avishek Goenka v. Union of India , (2012) 5

SCC 275, this Court has already held: 32. We must also hasten to add that the power under Section

36(1) of the Act is very wide and not constricted by the

provisions of Section 11 , as was held in BSNL v. TRAI (supra.). 33. Equally, in Hotel & Restaurant Assn. v. Star India (P)

Ltd. , (2006) 13 SCC 753, this Court has held:- section (2) thereof empowers TRAI to notify different
 rates for different persons or class of persons for
 similar telecommunication services and where
 different rates are fixed as aforesaid TRAI shall
 record the reasons therefor. xxx xxx xxx 55. TRAI exercises a broad jurisdiction. Its
 jurisdiction is not only to fix tariff but also laying
 down terms and conditions for providing services.
 Prima facie, it can fix norms and the mode and
 manner in which a consumer would get the
 services. 56. The role of a regulator may be varied. A
 regulation may provide for cost, supply of service on
 non-discriminatory basis, the mode and manner of
 supply making provisions for fair competition
 providing for a level playing field, protection of
 consumers' interest, prevention of monopoly. The
 services to be provided for through the cable
 operators are also recognised. While making the
 regulations, several factors are, thus required to be
 taken into account. The interest of one of the
 players in the field would not be taken into
 consideration throwing the interest of others to the
 wind.”
 (Emphasis supplied.) 34. It is interesting to note, as has been stated by Shri

Dwivedi, that in Star India’s response to the consultative paper

of 29.1.2016, Star India itself has requested that the Regulation

and Tariff Order be fixed on the basis of the principles that are

now contained therein. For example, Star India’s response to

whether a reasonable wholesale price cap can be ensured for

mass genres, was as follows:- - The HD channel market has witnessed a
 robust growth and has allowed broadcasters to
 invest in quality and innovative content. Over
 the last four years market forces have enabled
 the channels to discover their real prices and
 desired penetration. - This has been possible because of the
 laudable decision of the Authority to keep HD
 channels outside the regulatory purview. With
 upcoming 3D, 4D and virtual reality it would
 indeed be a regressive step if the Authority
 were to now regulate HD channels thereby
 sending out a negative signal to potential
 investments in these technologies. - Hence we recommend that the Authority
 should continue to keep HD channels outside
 the regulatory ambit. - In order to protect the interest of subscribers
 and to foster further growth in this segment,
 we recommend that HD channels should
 adhere to twin conditions and discounting caps
 at the wholesale and retail. - Discount on wholesale prices should be
 capped at 33% to ensure a viable a-la-carte
 fallback option for DPOs. - Retail a-la-carte prices should be linked to
 wholesale prices (same linkage multiplier as
 used for SD channels). - Discount at retail level also to be limited to
 33% to ensure a viable a-la-carte fallback
 option for consumer. 3. Bundling of HD and SD channels should not
 be allowed, both at wholesale and retail levels. 4. Charging of access fee for HD channels
 should not be allowed at retail level. 5. DPOs free to sell HD channels as a-la-carte as
 well as bouquet(s) of HD channels. 6. Consumers and DPOs should have a choice
 to subscribe to only HD channels or only SD
 channels or both combined but purchased
 separately.”

Equally, insofar as whether free to air and pay channel

bouquets are concerned, Star India itself stated that they

should not be bundled together thus:- carte prices of the of pay channels forming that
bouquet. A broadcaster can offer a maximum
discount of 15% while offering its bouquet of
channels over the sum of MRP of all the pay
channels in that bouquet so as to enable customer
choice through a-la-carte offering and also prevent
skewed a-la-carte and bouquet pricing (refer
example 1). The bouquet(s) offered by the
broadcasters to subscribers shall be provided by the
distributors of television channels to the subscribers
without any alteration in composition of the
bouquet(s). In case a broadcaster feels that more
discount can be provided in formation of the
bouquet, it indirectly means that a-la-carte prices at
the first stage has been kept high and there is a
need to revise such a-la-carte prices downwardly.
Full flexibility has been given to broadcasters to
declare price of their pay channels on a-la-carte
basis to correct such situations, if it may come. 66. Some stakeholders are of the opinion that
limiting the discount to subscribers while forming
bouquets is anti subscriber. In this regard, while the
Authority wants to facilitate the availability of a-la-
carte choice to customers/subscribers, it does not 81 intend to encroach upon the freedom of
broadcasters and distributors to do business. During
the discussions in the Parliament on the motion for
consideration of the Cable Television Networks
(Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2011, the then
Minister of Information and Broadcasting
emphasised the need to establish a system for
subscribers to choose a-la-carte channels of choice.
The Authority has also made several attempts in
this regard, but for one or the other reason could not
succeed. Here it is important to understand that the
Authority has not been able to do pricing of
channels in the absence of pricing of content.
Present trends indicate that majority of channels are
priced much below the prevailing ceiling, but higher
ceilings were prescribed to give flexibility to
broadcasters to monetise their channels and
freedom to do business. Further, different channels
even in the same genre may have varying cost of
production and potential to monetise, but within the
framework. A broadcaster may price even non-
driver channels at a much higher value that they
can command. Non-discovery of reasonable price of
a channel in a market is one of the constraints that
can be manipulated and misused to price a channel
in a-la-carte from which is illusionary. Such high a-
la-carte prices permits broadcasters/distributors to
provide high discounts to push non-drivers channels
in form of bouquets to the subscribers while
reducing the probability of choosing the a-la-carte
channels of choice as required by the lawmakers in
the Parliament. The possibility to forcing bouquets
over a-la-carte choice by using higher discounts can
be further understood by following example, where
a broadcaster has a total of 35 pay channels out of
which only 5 are driver channels: 67. In the present regulatory framework incidences
have come to the knowledge where discount upto
90% on the declared RIO prices has been given by
broadcasters. Obviously such efforts kill competition
and reduce a-la-carte choice which is anti-
subscriber. Accordingly, the Authority has
prescribed a discount of 15% to be provided by
broadcasters at wholesale level and further 15% to
be provided by distributors at retail level. The net
effect to subscribers at retail level will be a discount
of approximately 30% on the bouquets of channels.
Therefore flexibility of formation of bouquet has
been given to broadcasters and MSOs both to such
an extent that total permissible discount does not kill
the a-la-carte choice. The Authority has been
careful in prescribing a framework which does not
encourage non-driver channel to be pushed to
subscribers against their choice. Non-driver
channels which are provided as part of bouquets
not only kill choice of the ala-carte channels but also
eat away the channel carrying capacity available
with distributors which may result in artificial
capacity constraints at distribution platforms for
launch of new/competitive channels. Such
restrictions are anti-subscriber and have to be
carefully handled. Accordingly, the Authority has
consciously decided the present framework of
prescribing relationship between a-la-carte and
bouquet prices to protect interest of
customers/viewers and as well as those of service
providers. However, the Authority will keep a watch
on the developments in the market and may review
the maximum permissible discount while offering a
bouquet, in a time period of about two years. 68. A broadcaster is free to offer its pay channels in
the form of bouquet(s) to customers. While
subscribing to bouquet, a customer may not be
aware of the price of each channel forming the 84 bouquet. Abnormal high price of a pay channel may
 result in higher price of a bouquet leading to
 adverse impact on subscribers' interests. It is an
 established fact that bundling of channels
 complicates and obscures their pricing. Prices are
 obscured because subscribers do not always
 understand the relationship between the bundle
 price and a price for each component. However, the
 bundling of channels offers convenience to the
 subscribers as well as services providers in
 subscription management. Keeping in view these
 realties and to protect the interests of subscribers,
 the Authority has prescribed a ceiling of Rs. 19/- on
 the MRP of pay channels which can be provided as
 part of a bouquet. Therefore, any pay channel
 having MRP of more than Rs. 19/- cannot become
 part of any bouquet. The amount of Rs. 19/- has
 been prescribed keeping in view the prevailing
 highest genre wise ceilings of Rs. 15.12 for all
 addressable systems between broadcaster & DPOs
 at wholesale level and further enhancing it 1.25
 times to account for DPOs distribution fee.
 Broadcasters also have complete freedom to price
 their pay channels which do not form part of any
 bouquet and offered only on a-la-carte basis.
 Similar conditions will also be applicable to DPOs
 for formation of the bouquets. However, the
 Authority will keep a watch on the developments in
 the market and may review the manner in which a
 channel can be provided as part of a bouquet, in a
 time period of about two years.”
 (Emphasis supplied.) 37. It can thus be seen that both the Regulation as well as the

Tariff Order have been the subject matter of extensive 85 discussions between TRAI, all stake holders and consumers,

pursuant to which most of the suggestions given by the

broadcasters themselves have been accepted and incorporated

into the Regulation and the Tariff Order. The Explanatory

Memorandum shows that the focus of the Authority has always

been the provision of a level playing field to both broadcaster

and subscriber. For example, when high discounts are offered

for bouquets that are offered by the broadcasters, the effect is

that subscribers are forced to take bouquets only, as the a-la- carte rates of the pay channels that are found in these

bouquets are much higher. This results in perverse pricing of

bouquets vis-à-vis individual pay channels. In the process, the

public ends up paying for unwanted channels, thereby blocking

newer and better TV channels and restricting subscribers’

choice. It is for this reason that discounts are capped. While

doing so, however, full flexibility has been given to broadcasters

to declare the prices of their pay channels on an a-la-carte

basis. The Authority has shown that it does not encroach upon

the freedom of broadcasters to arrange their business as they 86 choose. Also, when such discounts are limited, a subscriber

can then be free to choose a-la-carte channels of his choice. Thus, the flexibility of formation of a bouquet, i.e., the choice of

channels to be included in the bouquet together with the

content of such channels, is not touched by the Authority. It is

only efforts aimed at thwarting competition and reducing a-la- carte choice that are, therefore, being interfered with. Equally,

when a ceiling of INR 19 on the maximum retail price of pay

channels which can be provided as a part of a bouquet is fixed

by the Authority, the Authority’s focus is to be fair to both the

subscribers as well as the broadcasters. INR 19 is an

improvement over the erstwhile ceiling of INR 15.12 fixed by

the earlier regulation which nobody has challenged. To

maintain the balance between the subscribers’ interests and

broadcasters’ interests, again the Authority makes it clear that

broadcasters have complete freedom to price channels which

do not form part of any bouquet and are offered only on an a-la- carte basis. As market regulator, the Authority states that the

impugned Regulation and Tariff Order are not written in stone 87 but will be reviewed keeping a watch on the developments in

the market. We are, therefore, clearly of the view that the

Regulation and the Tariff Order have been made keeping the

interests of the stakeholders and the consumers in mind and

are intra vires the regulation power contained in Section 36 of

the TRAI Act. Consequently, we agree with the conclusion of

the learned Chief Justice and the third learned Judge of the

Madras High Court that these writ petitions deserve to be

dismissed. 38. Since submissions have been made by Dr. Singhvi on the

reach of various other Acts, it is a little important to deal with

the same. 39. Dr. Singhvi relied heavily upon the Sports Act . The

Statement of Objects and Reasons of this Act makes it clear

that the distribution of broadcasting signals of sporting events of

public interest is not disseminated to persons who do not have

access to satellite and Cable TV, most of whom are in rural

areas. Since the downlinking and uplinking policy guidelines of

the Government have been challenged in courts as lacking 88 statutory sanction, it has become necessary that sporting

events of national importance reach the general public on a free

to air basis. It is for this reason that the definitions of

“broadcaster”, “broadcasting”, etc. refer to content. The

following are certain relevant terms as defined under the Sports

Act : xxx xxx xxx 5. Power of the Central Government to issue
 Guidelines.—The Central Government shall take
 all such measures, as it deems fit or expedient, by
 way of issuing Guidelines for mandatory sharing of
 broadcasting signals with Prasar Bharati relating to
 sporting events of national importance: xxx xxx xxx 93 4-A. (3) If the Central Government is satisfied that it
is necessary in the public interest so to do, and if
not otherwise specified by the Authority, it may
direct the Authority to specify, by notification in the
Official Gazette, one or more free-to-air channels to
be included in the package of channels forming
basic service tier and any one or more such
channels may be specified, in the notification,
genre-wise for providing a programme mix of
entertainment, information, education and such
other programmes and fix the tariff for basic service
tier which shall be offered by the cable operators to
the consumers and the consumer shall have the
option to subscribe to any such tier: xxx xxx xxx
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section— (a) “addressable system” means an electronic
 device (which includes hardware and its
 associated software) or more than one
 electronic device put in an integrated system
 through which signals of cable television
 network can be sent in encrypted form, which
 can be decoded by the device or devices,
 having an activated Conditional Access 94 System at the premises of the subscriber
within the limits of authorisation made,
through the Conditional Access System and
the subscriber management system, on the
explicit choice and request of such subscriber,
by the cable operator to the subscriber; (b) “basic service tier” means a package of
free-to-air channels to be offered by a cable
operator to a subscriber with an option to
subscribe, for a single price to subscribers of
the area in which his cable television network
is providing service; (c) “encrypted”, in respect of a signal of cable
television network, means the changing of
such signal in a systematic way so that the
signal would be unintelligible without use of an
addressable system and the expression
“unencrypted” shall be construed accordingly; (d) “free-to-air channel”, in respect of a cable
television network, means a channel for which
no subscription fee is to be paid by the cable
operator to the broadcaster for its re- transmission on cable; (e) “pay channel”, in respect of a cable
television network, means a channel for which
subscription fees is to be paid to the
broadcaster by the cable operator and due
authorisation needs to be taken from the
broadcaster for its re-transmission on cable; (f) “subscriber management system” means a
system or device which stores the subscriber
records and details with respect to name,
address and other information regarding the
hardware being utilised by the subscriber,
channels or bouquets of channels subscribed 95 to by the subscriber, price of such channels or
 bouquets of channels as defined in the
 system, the activation or deactivation dates
 and time for any channel or bouquets of
 channels, a log of all actions performed on a
 subscriber's record, invoices raised on each
 subscriber and the amounts paid or discount
 allowed to the subscriber for each billing
 period. xxx xxx xxx 5. Programme code.—No person shall transmit or
 re-transmit through a cable service any programme
 unless such programme is in conformity with the
 prescribed programme code: Explanation – For the purpose of this clause, the
expression “unrestricted public exhibition” shall
have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952); (2) The cable operator should strive to carry
programmes in his cable service which project
women in a positive, leadership role of sobriety,
moral and character building qualities.
(3) No cable operator shall carry or include in his
cable service any programme in respect of which
copyright subsists under the Copyright Act, 1972 (14 of 1972) unless he has been granted a licence
by owners of copyright under the Act in respect of
such programme. (4) Care should be taken to ensure that
programmes meant for children do not contain any
bad language or explicit scenes of violence.
(5) Programmes unsuitable for children must not be
carried in the cable service at times when the
largest numbers of children are viewing.
(6) No cable operator shall carry or include in his
cable service any television broadcast or channel,
which has not been registered by the Central
Government for being viewed within the territory of
India 98 PROVIDED that a cable operator may continue to
 carry or include in his cable service any Television
 broadcast or channel, whose application for
 registration to the Central Government was made
 on or before 11th May, 2006 and is under
 consideration, for a period upto 31st May, 2008 or
 till such registration has been granted or refused,
 whichever is earlier
 PROVIDED further that channels uplinking from
 India, in accordance permission for uplinking
 granted before 2nd December, 2005, shall be
 treated as registered television channels and can be
 carried or included in the cable service.” 43. The argument of Dr. Singhvi is that since this Act

regulates content downstream from the Cable TV operator to

the consumer, its absence in the TRAI Act is eloquent

testimony to the fact that content cannot be the subject matter

of the TRAI Act . As has been held by us hereinabove, the

same answer must obtain, namely, that this Act is also

irrelevant in the present case as the TRAI Act does not, as has

been held by us above, regulate the content of the TV channels

that are broadcasted by the broadcaster. 44. The main thrust of the arguments of both Dr. Singhvi and

Mr. Chidambaram were also by copious reference to the 99 Copyright Act, 1957 , which, according to them, showed that

once the Copyright Act steps in, TRAI must necessarily step

out. They referred to certain provisions of this Act stage-wise. The Copyright Act, 1957 as originally enacted stated in its

Objects and Reasons that: “it is necessary to enact an

independent self-contained law on the subject of copyright in

the light of growing public consciousness of the rights and

obligations of authors and in the light of experience gained in

the working of the existing law during the last forty years. New

and advanced means of communications like broadcasting,

litho-photography, etc., also call for certain amendments in the

existing law”, as a result of which certain rights akin to copyright

are conferred on broadcasting authorities in respect of

programmes broadcast by them. In this Act, as originally

enacted, Section 2(v) defined “radio-diffusion” as follows: 45. Section 37 , as originally enacted, recognised a broadcast

reproduction right by radio-diffusion only by the Government or

any other Authority of Government as follows: diffusion by the Government or any other
 broadcasting authority, a special right to be known
 as “broadcast reproduction right” shall subsist in
 such programme. (2) The Government or other broadcasting
 authority, as the case may be, shall be the owner of
 the broadcast reproduction right and such right shall
 subsist until twenty-five years from the beginning of
 the calendar year next following the year in which
 the programme is first broadcast. (3) During the continuance of a broadcast
 reproduction right in relation to any programme, any
 person, who,- (a) without the licence of the owner of the
 right- (i) rebroadcasts the programme in
 question or any substantial part thereof
 or (ii) causes the programme in question
 or any substantial part thereof to be
 heard in public; or (b) without the licence of the owner of the
 right to utilise the broadcast for the purpose of
 making a record recording the programme in
 question or any substantial part thereof, 101 makes any such record, shall be deemed to
 infringe the broadcast reproduction right.” 46. Section 38 , as originally enacted prescribed as under : 47. Sections 18 and 19 of the Copyright Act deal with

assignment of copyright and royalty or other consideration

payable to the owner for such assignment. Section 30 of the

Copyright Act refers to the right to licence any interest in

copyright by the author or his duly authorised agent. 48. By the 1983 amendment to the Copyright Act , Section

2(v) defining radio-diffusion was deleted and instead Section

2(dd) was inserted defining “broadcast” as follows: 49. Section 2(ff) was also inserted, defining “communication

to the public” as follows: 50. Consequently, Section 37 was also amended so as to

replace the expression “radio-diffusion” with the expression

“broadcast”. 51. In 1994, consequent to treaty obligations imposed upon

India, broadcast reproduction rights were expanded to include

private broadcasting organisations. The Statement of Objects

and Reasons for the aforesaid amendment made it clear that: xxx xxx xxx
 to further clarify the law in respect of cable,
 satellite and other means of simultaneous
 communication of works to more than one
 household or private place of residence,
 including the residential rooms of a hotel or
 hostel. xxx xxx xxx
 to further improve the functioning of the
 Copyright Board; to simplify and improve the law relating to
 copyright and related rights, in the interests of
 the general public, and in particular of the
 users as well as the owners of such rights.” 52. Section 2(ff) defining “communication to the public” was

substituted with a more comprehensive definition as follows: 53. Section 37 was entirely recast as follows : 54. Section 38 was substituted with a new Section 39A as

follows: 55. Sections 33 and 33A, which have been relied upon by the

learned counsel for the appellants, read as follows: section (1) to the Registrar of Copyrights who shall
submit the application to the Central Government.
(3) The Central Government may, having regard to
the interests of the authors and other owners of
rights under this Act, the interest and convenience
of the public and in particular of the groups of
persons who are most likely to seek licences in
respect of the relevant rights and the ability and 107 professional competence of the applicants, register
such association of persons as a copyright society
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed: 33A. Tariff scheme by copyright societies.— (1)
 Every copyright society shall publish its tariff
 scheme in such manner as may be prescribed.
 (2) Any person who is aggrieved by the tariff
 scheme may appeal to the Appellate Board and the
 Board may, if satisfied after holding such inquiry as
 it may consider necessary, make such orders as
 may be required to remove any unreasonable
 element, anomaly or inconsistency therein: 56. Equally, Section 39 , as substituted by the amending Act

of 1994, reads as follows: 57. The 2012 amendment to the Copyright Act was relied

upon and placed with great emphasis by learned counsel

appearing on behalf of the appellants. The Statement of

Objects and Reasons of this amendment Act stated as follows : original databases; musical works; audiovisual
works; works of fine art and photographs. The 111 WPPT protects certain “related rights” which are the
 rights of the performers and producers of
 phonograms. However, India has not yet signed the
 above-mentioned two treaties. Moreover, the main
 object to make amendments to the Act is that it is
 considered that in the knowledge society in which
 we live today, it is imperative to encourage creativity
 for promotion of culture of enterprise and innovation
 so that creative people realize their potential and it
 is necessary to keep pace with the challenges for a
 fast growing knowledge and modern society.
 xxx xxx xxx
 (xvii) make provision for formulation of a tariff
 scheme by the copyright societies subject to
 scrutiny by the Copyright Board.” 58. By this amendment, Section 2(ff) defining “communication

to the public” was replaced as follows:- 59. Certain amendments were made to Section 37(3)(e) . Section 39A was amended to extend the provisions of Sections

33 and 33A to owners of the broadcast reproduction rights as

follows:- xxx xxx xxx” 60. A reading of the aforesaid provisions, according to the

learned Senior Advocates for the appellants, makes it clear that

broadcasters may, in fact, be the owners of the original

copyright of a work – for example, if they themselves have

produced a serial. They may also be the copyright owners of

the broadcast of this serial which is a separate right under the

Copyright Act which they are able to exploit, and if there is a re- broadcast of what has already been copyrighted, this again is 113 protected by Chapter VIII of the Copyright Act . The argument,

therefore, is that content that is carried by transmission from the

broadcasters to the ultimate consumer is, therefore, regulated

only by the Copyright Act and any royalties that can be charged

for exploitation of the three rights as aforesaid are governed

only by the Copyright Act . Further, the right to band

themselves into a society is by virtue of Section 33 , which

mutatis mutandis applies to broadcasters alone. The tariff,

therefore, that may be charged under Section 33A of the

Copyright Act read with Rule 56 of the Copyright Rules is

nothing but compensation that is payable to broadcasters for

parting with their copyright in the manner indicated above. This being the case, when TRAI fixes rates and/or interferes

with content, it is trespassing into the exclusive domain set out

by Parliament under the Copyright Act . Since the TRAI Act

and the Copyright Act, both being Acts passed by Parliament,

have to be harmonised, such harmony can only be maintained

if TRAI is kept out altogether from the domain covered by the Copyright Act . Learned counsel for the appellants also strongly 114 relied upon the observations contained in Entertainment

Network (India) Ltd. v. Super Cassette Industries Ltd. ,

(2008) 13 SCC 30, in which this Court explained as under: Even the word “usually” has been used. Mr Divan
 himself has referred to Rule 11-A and Form II-A
 appended to the Rules of 1958. Clauses (10) and
 (11) of the form which have validly been made used
 the word “royalty”. “10. Rate of royalty, which the applicant
 considers reasonable, to be paid to the
 copyright owner. 11. Means of the applicant for payment of the
 royalty.” 127. The legislature therefore for all intent and
 purport equates “compensation” with “royalty”. In
 the context of the Act, royalty is a genus and
 compensation is a species. Where a licence has to
 be granted, it has to be for a period. A 115 “compensation” may be paid by way of annuity. A
 “compensation” may be held to be payable on a
 periodical basis, as apart from the compensation,
 other terms and conditions can also be imposed.
 The compensation must be directed to be paid with
 certain other terms and conditions which may be
 imposed.” 61. Rule 56 of the Copyright Rules, 2013, also relied upon, is

set out hereunder: Provided that the copyright society shall not receive
any payment in the nature of minimum guarantee
from a licensee whose royalty payments are based
on actual use which are to be settled with the
society at the end of the licence period except
where, any exceptional circumstances are
specifically included in the Tariff Scheme and the
individual case has been approved by the
Governing Council. (6) The copyright society may revise the Tariff
Scheme periodically but not earlier than a period of
twelve months by following the rules. It shall publish
the date of coming into of the revised Tariff Scheme
at least before two months in advance and the
same shall be posted on its website.” 117 62. At this juncture, it is of a little importance to compare and

contrast Section 2(dd) of the Copyright Act with “broadcasting

services” as defined in the impugned Regulation and Tariff

Order. By Clause 2(j) of the impugned Regulation,

“broadcasting services” is defined as follows: 63. When the definitions of “broadcast” in Section 2(dd) of the

Copyright Act and of “broadcasting services” in Clause 2(j) of

the impugned Regulation are compared, what is clear is that

the words “intended to be received by the general public either

directly or indirectly” are completely missing from the definition

of “broadcast” contained in the Copyright Act . Also, Section

52(1)(b) of the Copyright Act indicates that transient or

incidental storage of a work or performance purely in the

technical process of electronic transmission or communication 118 to the public is not an act that would constitute infringement of

copyright. Section 52(1)(b) reads as follows: 64. The picture that, therefore, emerges is that copyright is

meant to protect the proprietary interest of the owner, which in

the present case is a broadcaster, in the “work”, i.e. the original

work, its broadcast and/or its re-broadcast by him. The interest

of the end user or consumer is not the focus of the Copyright

Act at all. On the other hand, the TRAI Act has to focus on

broadcasting services provided by the broadcaster that impact

the ultimate consumer. The focus, therefore, of TRAI is that of

a regulatory authority, which looks to the interest of both

broadcaster and subscriber so as to provide a level playing field

for both in which regulations can be laid down which affect the

manner and carriage of broadcast to the ultimate consumers. Once the relative scope of both the enactments is understood 119 as above, there can be no difficulty in stating that the two Acts

operate in different fields. We do not find on a reading of the

impugned Regulation as well as the Tariff Order made that

TRAI has transgressed into copyright land. This is for the

reason, as has been stated hereinabove, that regulations which

allegedly impact packaging TV channels, pricing of TV

channels and the broadcaster’s right to arrange his business as

he pleases, all have to be viewed with the lens of a regulatory

authority, which is to provide a level playing field between

broadcaster and subscriber. We have also noted how the

broadcaster is free to provide whatever content he chooses for

the TV channels that he chooses to transmit to the ultimate

consumer. We have also noted how the broadcaster is free to

arrange pricing of his TV channels so long as they are non- discriminatory and do not otherwise have the effect of

unreasonably restricting the choice of a subscriber to choose

bouquet or a-la-carte channels as has been held hereinabove. We are satisfied that the impugned Regulation and Tariff Order

have been passed by a regulatory authority after applying its 120 mind to the objections of the various stakeholders involved after

which the Regulation and Tariff Order have been laid down

which have, by and large, been initially acceded to by the

broadcasters themselves. In this view of the matter, we are of

the view that the Copyright Act will operate within its own

sphere, the broadcaster being given full flexibility to either

individually or in the form of a society charge royalty or

compensation for the three kinds of copyright mentioned

hereinabove. TRAI, while exercising its regulatory functions

under the TRAI Act , does not at all, in substance, impinge upon

any of these rights, but merely acts, as has been stated

hereinabove, as a regulator, in the public interest, of

broadcasting services provided by broadcasters and availed of

by the ultimate consumer. 65. As Dr. Singhvi has repeatedly stressed that fixation of

rates under Section 11(2) would directly impinge upon

compensation payable for copyright to the broadcasters, it is

important to note that both the Copyright Act as well as the TRAI Act are central enactments which do not expressly 121 provide that the one overrides the other. In this situation, a

basic principle of interpretation of statutes is that both Acts be

harmonized in the event of any clash/conflict between the two

so that both may be given effect to. In fact, Section 38 of the

TRAI Act reads as under:- 66. Since the Telegraph Authority, acting under the Telegraph

Act and the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act , is required to act in

public interest, the jurisdiction of the said Authority is left

untrammeled by the provisions of the TRAI Act . It can thus be

seen that TRAI and the Telegraph Authority both act in public

interest. The TRAI Act, the Telegraph Act and the Indian

Wireless Telegraphy Act, being statutes in pari materia, form a

Code, insofar as wireless telegraphy and broadcasting is

concerned. 67. We are, therefore, clearly of the view that if in exercise of

its regulatory power under the TRAI Act , TRAI were to impinge

upon compensation payable for copyright, the best way in

which both statutes can be harmonized is to state that, the TRAI Act , being a statute conceived in public interest, which is

to serve the interest of both broadcasters and consumers, must

prevail, to the extent of any inconsistency, over the Copyright

Act which is an Act which protects the property rights of

broadcasters. We are, therefore, of the view that, to the extent

royalties/compensation payable to the broadcasters under the Copyright Act are regulated in public interest by TRAI under the TRAI Act , the former shall give way to the latter. As there is no

merit in these appeals, the same are, therefore, dismissed. …………………………..J.
 (R.F. Nariman)

 …………………………..J.
 (Navin Sinha)
New Delhi; October 30, 2018.