SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need help for shifting my thinking/mindset over BIHAR.
DATE: 2025-03-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1j10djn/need_help_for_shifting_my_thinkingmindset_over/

--- POST TEXT ---

I need some help in shifting my perspective on Bihar! 
In the past, I mostly heard negative news about the state, focusing on serious crimes, goons, thefts, and scams. However, since the Kumbh Mela began, I've been hearing a lot more reports about Biharis vandalizing public property, breaking windows and doors of trains, and showing a lack of civic responsibility whose videos has been going viral over the internet. Few days ago I saw a video of people taking decoration flower pots home which was decorated for CM rally. Also recently, a KVS teacher criticized Bihar's educational system and its people's civic sense, which led to her suspension.

In previous years, there were viral videos showcasing bridges collapsing due to poor infrastructure and bad materials used in formation of structure. Yeah! main reason is also corruption. 
I've also come across alarming stories, such as a man who r@ped a minor but was let go after a panchayat settles the matter by ordering him to do just five sit-ups, a five-year-old bringing a gun to school and killing one of his classmate, and various cases of kidnapping for ransom, gang r@pes and murders. Caste-based discrimination and lynching seem to be prevalent in Bihar, along with corruption in the education sector, property disputes leading to murder and rampant encroachment over others property etc etc. If you Google for crimes and cases in Bihar you'll probably get shocked on what the hell happening there. 
The list goes on, and one thing we all know is that gross, disgusting, terrible, &amp; low grade of Bhojpuri Songs in which mainly women are objectified.

All these distressing incidents have left me feeling disgusted and uneasy whenever I hear the word Bihar or encounter a Bihari accent or any Bihari I feel awful and now even If I encounter this over social media I get the same feeling. I agree that crimes are everywhere but what happens in this state nowhere happens not even close to that ig. 
Also I'm not denying the fact that Bihar has produced many notable political leaders, celebrities, and influential figures who have positively impacted society, I still struggle to shake off my negative feelings about the state. 
Please help me to change my mindset over this cause now it has converted into feeling of hatred, one possible reason of this may be due to prejudices set on mind.

TL;DR - I have feeling of hatred and disgust on Bihar help me change it.