11. In considering whether a person is willing to perform his part of
 the contract, the sequence in which the obligations under a contract
 are to be performed must be taken into account. .................. If,
 therefore, under the terms of the contract, the obligations of the
 parties have to be performed in a certain sequence, one of the
 parties to the contract cannot require compliance with the
 obligations by the other party without, in the first instance performing
 his part of the contract which in the sequence of obligations is
 performable by him earlier. 24. As previously noted, the Defendant has failed to substantiate his
defence that his daughters have any claim over the scheduled property. The
Trial Court has rightly accepted the Plaintiff's stand that the property in
question is the Defendant's self-acquired property, providing sound reasoning
for this conclusion. The testimonies of PWs.1 and 2 confirm that Plaintiff has
consistently been ready and willing to fulfil her obligations under the contract.
However, for reasons best known to Defendant, he did not come forward to
execute the registered sale deed and also failed to respond to the legal notice
sent by Plaintiff. Instead, Defendant raised a defence contrary to the terms 4 AIR 1970 SC 546 5 AIR 1950 PC 90 at p.96 10 outlined in Ex.A.1, claiming that his daughters have a right to the property,
which directly contradicts the agreement. 25. In P.Ramasubbamma Vs. V.Vijayalakshmi & Ors6 , the Hon'ble Apex
Court observed that: 26. In Prakash Chandra V. Angadial7, the Hon'ble Apex Court reiterated
that the ordinary rule is that specific Performance should be granted. It ought
to be denied only when equitable considerations point to its refusal and the
circumstances show that damages would constitute an adequate relief. 27. Section 20(2) of the Specific Relief Act contains the cases in which the
Court may properly exercise discretion not to decree specific Performance.
Three types of cases have been given under subsection (2) in the form of
clauses (a), (b) & (c), in which the Court exercises its discretion not to decree
specific Performance; it is helpful to extract the said clauses hereunder: 2022 (2) DNJ 625 7 AIR 1979 SC 1241 11 28. The instant case does not fall under any of these clauses. Usually,
when the trial Court exercises its discretion in one way or another after
appreciating the entire evidence and the materials on record, the appellate
Court should only interfere if it is established that the discretion has been
exercised perversely, arbitrarily or against judicial principles. The appellate
Court should also not exercise its discretion against the grant of specific
Performance on extraneous considerations or sympathetic considerations. As
contemplated under section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, it is true that a party
is not entitled to get a decree for a specific performance merely because it is
lawful to do so. Nevertheless, once an agreement to sell is legal and validly
proved and further requirements for getting such a decree are established, the
Court has to exercise its discretion to grant relief for a specific performance. 29. In Veeramareddy Nagabhushana Rao V. Jyothula Venkateswara
Rao 8 , the Division Bench of the composite High Court of Andhra Pradesh
referred to the decision of Mysore State Road Transport Corporation Vs.
Mirja Khasim Ali Beg and Another9 , wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court
was of the view that once discretion has been exercised by the lower Court in
a given set of facts in favour of a party unless that discretion exercised is
capricious, the appellate Court would not interfere since another possible
result could have come in the suit, had the appellate Court decided the suit. 30. The Defendant has always tried to wriggle out of the contract by
disputing that his daughters had got right over the property. Now, the
Defendant cannot take advantage of his wrong and then plead that a grant of
decree of specific Performance would be inequitable. It is not established by
the Defendant that during the period between Ex.A1 and the date of filing of
the suit, there was a rise in prices regarding immovable properties like the
plaint schedule property. 2011 (1) ALT 600 (DB) 9 AIR 1977 SC 747 12 31. In Nirmala Anand V. Advent Corporation (P) Ltd. And others10, the
Hon'ble Apex Court held that: 32. In K. Prakash v. B.R. Sampath Kumar 11 , the Hon'ble Apex Court
observed that: As held by the Apex Court time and again, the efflux of time and the
 escalation of the price of the property by itself cannot be valid grounds for
 denying the relief of specific Performance. The subsequent rise in price will
 not be treated as a hardship entailing refusal of the decree for a specific
 performance. A rise in the price is a normal change of circumstance;
 therefore, on that ground, a decree for a specific performance cannot be
 reversed. But the Court, in its discretion, may impose reasonable conditions,
 including payment of an additional amount to the vendor. It is equally well 10 2002 (6) ALD 54 (SC) 11 (2015) 1 SCC 597 12 (2002) 8 SCC 146 13 settled that the Plaintiffs are not to be denied specific Performance only
 because of the phenomenal price increase during the pendency of litigation. 33. After going through the entire evidence on record, this Court upholds
the trial Court's findings that the defendants executed Ex.A.1 agreement
agreeing to the terms and conditions therein, and the Plaintiff is always ready
and willing to perform their part of the contract. The conduct of the Defendant
resisting the execution of the sale deed is quite incorrect. 34. Having concluded that the Judgment of the trial Court is the result of
proper appreciation of evidence, I find no illegality or arbitrariness in the trial
Court's Judgment. In my view, however, the learned Judge should have
granted a decree for specific Performance, directing Plaintiff to pay a balance
of consideration amount with interest thereon at 24% per annum to give the
benefit of the phenomenal increase in the value of the property to Defendant. 35. On a consideration of the entire material, pleadings, evidence adduced
and the impugned Judgment, I am convinced in the light of the analysis above
that the trial Court rightly exercised its discretion in granting the relief of
specific Performance and rightly decreed the suit. The findings and reasoning
provided by the trial Court are consistent with established legal principles.
There are no justifiable reasons for this Court to arrive at a different
conclusion. The trial court's findings are accurate, and there is no need for
interference except for awarding interest on the advance amount, as stated.
Accordingly, the points raised in the Appeal are answered. 36. As a result, i) The Appeal is allowed in part. The Judgment and decree dated
 dt.02.03.2016 passed in O.S.No.150 of 2008 by the Additional
 Senior Judge, Machilipatnam, are confirmed granting the relief
 of specific Performance with costs and 14 ii) The Judgment and decree dated 02.03.2016 in the O.S.No.150
 of 2008 shall stand modified and the Plaintiff is directed to
 deposit the balance of the sale consideration amount of
 Rs.4,80,600/- (Rupees Four Lakhs Eighty Thousand Six
 Hundred Only) within three months from the date of this
 Judgment (if not already deposited) and the Plaintiff is further
 directed to pay interest @ 24% per annum on the balance sale
 consideration of Rs.4,80,600/- from the date of agreement till the
 date of deposit of such amount in the Court, and iii) On such deposit, the Defendants shall execute the sale deed
 within one month, failing which, the Court shall execute the
 sale deed in favour of the Plaintiff regarding the plaint
 schedule property as ordered by the trial Court. iv) After execution of the sale deed, the Defendants are entitled
 to withdraw the amount deposited in the Court. v) In the facts and circumstances, the parties have to bear their
 costs throughout the proceedings. Miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, in this Appeal, shall stand
 closed. ______________________________
 JUSTICE T. MALLIKARJUNA RAO

Date: 05.12.2024
SAK 15 THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE T.MALLIKARJUNA RAO

 APPEAL SUIT NO. 391 OF 2016

 DATE: 05.12.2024

SAK