SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Do you think this Business investment is a scam?(Read details)
DATE: 2017-10-10
SCORE: 64
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/75en9s/do_you_think_this_business_investment_is_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

Okay. So I'm an employee at Infosys, got my project recently. Working so hard for a meager salary terrifies me. So, a fellow Infosys employee, who added me on Facebook few days back, tells me to meet him. He tells there's a business that's changed his life and that he is planning to do full time there, leaving his infy job. I became curious. He asked me if I wanna be part of this business too. I thought yeah why not. So, he tells me there's a meeting scheduled with a person, and tells me to get resume,ID and address proof. I arrive at the said location, and a lady named Anisha Agarwal, claiming to be from Rajasthan says she's a senior partner of my friend, and that the business has expanded to several parts of India. She seemed pretty bossy and with a good accent. She was well dressed. I was still skeptical and I thought whatever is going on is utter bullshit and that this lady is fake. So, we began talking about several things. It was like a casual interview, at Starbucks, Pune. She asked me questions like "why do you want to do business?", "What are your goals in life", "Are you ready to put efforts for this business?" and several other questions. At last, she said, if I want to be a part of this business, I will have to invest 3.2lac in this, through check. That is when she will reveal the business strategy and everything.
I obviously thought okay this is such bullshit.
My friend claimed that he got a personal loan to put investment into this business, and he'll be settling it in the next few months. I called bullshit on this one, and told him to send his bank statement for this. I noticed that 49,000₹ had been credited on the month of September to his account (not fake), and I was baffled. I became much curious now. It was credited by "VDSP Pvt Ltd"
I was told I can work part time for this as well. But I'm still doubtful.
What should I do? Please I need suggestions.
Worst case scenario - 3.2 lac ka loss.
Best case scenario - earning 50k per month.

Could it be - This could be one of those businesses, which you have to have a member under you, only that is when you can earn through the business. I'm thinking, maybe my friend, has one person under him, because of who he is earning 50k, and I'll be another member under him. If I want to earn through this business, I'll have to catch another member who can come under me and who's down for this business.