We missed this earlier: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has now extended the credit line framework via the unified payments interface (UPI) to small finance banks (SFBs). Credit lines are pre-approved borrowing limits that can be drawn on repeatedly.

While UPI transactions were initially limited to savings accounts, overdraft accounts, prepaid wallets, and credit cards, individuals can now link pre-approved credit lines as funding accounts. For context , funding accounts are the borrowers’ deposit accounts to which lenders can directly transfer the loan proceeds.

RBI mandates that users can undertake transactions from credit lines via UPI, provided they give explicit consent for this purpose. However, a particular commercial bank’s board will decide the terms and conditions on the use of such credit lines including credit limit, time period, and rate of interest, among other prerequisites.

RBI states that the move enables access to short-term credit for ‘new-to-credit’ customers. In extending the project to SFBs, RBI aims to leverage its “high-tech, low-cost model to reach the last-mile consumer”. Generally speaking, since SFBs offer facilities to micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and marginalised farmers, this development raises questions about its impact on financial inclusion. Speaking to MediaNama, the Cofounder of banking and fintech consulting firm, The Digital Fifth, Sameer Singh Jaini explained that while the move may be “game-changing” for small businesses, certain operational challenges may hinder its implementation. “It’s worth noting that credit lines can be difficult to operate, especially for low-income consumers without a stable income or credit history. Considering this, SFBs must develop targeted outreach and education programs to ensure that such consumers exercise caution while using credit lines”, Jaini adds.

Moving forward, Jaini recommends a gradual scale-up of this program to mitigate risks of over-leveraging and fraud, alongside other changes in consumer behaviour. He outlines several steps for this process:

RBI’s latest notification on the subject issued on February 12, follows through on its earlier decision to expand the scope of UPI, by allowing SFBs to extend pre-sanctioned credit lines via UPI. The central bank first announced this move in September 2023, allowing the UPI network to facilitate payments financed by credit from banks. However, this remained limited to scheduled commercial banks excluding payments banks, SFBs, and regional rural banks.

At the outset, the move generated excitement among experts, who noted that pre-sanctioned credit lines via UPI could offer merchants a lower-cost alternative, as the merchant discount rate (MDR) is lower than that of traditional credit cards. Currently, mobile payment apps like PhonePe and Google Pay alongside banks like HDFC and ICICI offer credit facilities via UPI.

This move comes amid RBI’s increased efforts to enhance the adoption of UPI, by doubling the per-transaction limits for UPI123Pay and UPI Lite from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 and from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 respectively. This adds to RBI’s overall support for UPI, including maintaining zero MDR charges and allocating over Rs 3,600 crore for promoting UPI and RuPay between 2021 and 2024.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event