By S.K. Singh, Chairperson - This appeal under Section 57 of the

Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act ) is directed against an order dated

05.03.2021 passed by the learned Adjudicating Officer(AO), Principal Secretary

(Information Technology), Government of Maharashtra, in Case No.1/2021. It

may be relevant to note that this order is interim in nature deciding to hold enquiry

against the appellant (respondent before the AO) under Rule 4(g) of the Enquiry

Rules by holding that there is sufficient cause to hold such an enquiry. Some

interim reliefs on an application by the complainant/respondent were denied but

the appellant was directed to submit some unspecified documents in order to

enable the complainant to calculate damages in the same matter. It will be useful

to extract the four directions issued to the parties at the end of the impugned order.

It is as follows: Pursuant to the above-mentioned Rule, till the instant case is pending before
 this forum, if the same subject matter is being pursued by the parties before
 any other forum, the same shall be withdrawn from such other forum. 2. As the interim relief sought by the Complainant cannot be granted without
 adjudicating upon the instant matter in its entirety, Order on the Interim
 application shall constitute part of the Final Order; 3. The Respondents are directed to submit the relevant documents in order to
 enable the Complainant to calculate damages in the current matter and are also
 directed to submit the acknowledgement of the delivery of the documents
 before this forum either through the e-mail ID or registered post; 4. Basis the submissions advanced by the parties and documents produced on
 record, there is sufficient cause to hold enquiry against the Respondents under
 Rule 4(g) of the Enquiry Rules. In view of the same, a Hearing Notice
 specifying the date and manner of hearing shall be issued to the parties in due
 course of time." 2. The relief sought in this appeal is to quash the proceedings of Case

No.1/2021 before the learned AO on the ground that the same is without

jurisdiction and non est; and also to set aside the order dated 05.03.2021 in so far

as it directs the appellant to submit documents to enable the

complainant/respondent to calculate damages to be claimed against the appellant

and also in so far as it directs for initiation of an enquiry against the appellant

under Rule 4(g) of the Enquiry Rules and for all consequential reliefs. 4 3. The appeal was admitted for hearing and an interim order was passed after

hearing the parties on 05.04.4021. This Tribunal noticed the stand of both the

parties, recorded a prima facie finding that direction No.(3) was difficult to be

complied because of vagueness and also because interim relief had been denied to

the complainant. By the above order, until further orders, direction No.(3) and

further proceedings before the AO were stayed. For appreciating the gist of rival

stand taken by the parties in this appeal, the interim order dated 05.04.2021 is

reproduced hereinbelow: in order to enable complainant to calculate the damages in the
current matter is not only vague but unjustified. Learned senior
counsel has referred to prayers made by the respondent before the
Bombay High Court to show that calculated damages have been
claimed before the Bombay High Court. According to learned senior counsel for the respondent
(complainant), the identification of relevant documents can be done
by the parties on the basis of the various prayers made in the
complaint and such a direction is not by way of any interim relief but
is in the nature of an order on an application for discovery of
documents. He further submits that the case of the parties has been
noted and on that basis a decision has been taken to hold inquiry
under the Inquiry Rules. At this stage, there is indeed an apparent difficulty in showing
compliance with direction no. 3 because of vagueness and more so
when interim relief has already been denied to the complainant.
Hence, until further orders, direction no. 3 and further proceedings
before the A.O. shall remain stayed. The respondent is granted four weeks' time to file reply. Rejoinder,
if required, may be filed within two weeks thereafter. Post the matter under the head "for Directions" and if possible for
final disposal on 18.5.2021." 4. The records and the order sheet disclose that respondent filed its reply on

28.05.2021. Rejoinder was filed by the appellant on 24.06.2021. On 03.06.2021,

an oral prayer on behalf of the respondent for some interim orders in its favour was

not entertained. While the matter was pending for hearing, on behalf of respondent

MA No.174/2021 was filed on 16.08.2021 to seek interim reliefs in its favour.

This Tribunal did not grant any interim relief but on 20.09.2021, by agreement of

both the parties the appeal was ordered to be listed for hearing on 04.10.2021 at the

top of the list. Hearing concluded on 11.10.2021 and order was reserved. 5. The stand of learned Senior Counsel for the appellant during the hearing was

that the proceedings before the AO be quashed and in particular direction Nos.(3)

and (4) be set aside. Further contention on behalf of the appellant is that although

the complaint alleges contravention of Section 43(a) , (b), (d), (i), (j) and Sections

72 , 79 and 85 of the IT Act but the complainant has failed to establish a prima

facie case under the aforesaid provisions of the IT Act . According to learned

counsel, the Apex Court has laid down that every judicial or quasi judicial order

passed by any court/tribunal/authority, which decides a lis between parties must be

supported with reasons in support of its conclusion. Reliance has been placed on

judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of State of Orissa & Ors. Vs.

Chandra Nandi; (2019) 4 SCC 357. The impugned order has been criticized on 7 the ground that it is unreasoned and erroneous. According to learned counsel for

the appellant there is no evidence of unauthorized access through any technical

intervention or breach of cyber security by the appellant to substantiate the claim

of the respondent in the complaint; respondent has failed to establish ownership of

"proprietory data", and such claim is contrary to stand of the respondent in

litigations pending before other forum where it has claimed that it is an

intermediary under the IT Act which would imply that the data such as contents,

images etc. are provided by third parties. Pleadings in the suit pending before the

Delhi High Court have been relied upon for this purpose. 6. It has also been argued that the direction No.(3) is vague and also erroneous

when interim relief has been denied. Documents are not required at the present

stage to enable the respondent to calculate damages. It has also been submitted

that plea of calculation of damages is untenable, more so when the respondent has

claimed calculated damages in the suit filed by it before the Bombay High Court. 7. In order to support the case against direction No.(4), it has been submitted

on behalf of the appellant that in absence of the exact time or place of commission

of offence, the essential elements to initiate proceedings under Rule 4 are absent

and it has been wrongly held that there is sufficient cause for further investigation. 8 This part of the order has been criticized also on the ground that no materials or

reasons to support the conclusion that sufficient cause has been made out, has been

mentioned in the impugned order. Direction No.(3), indicated above, has been

criticized for vagueness as well as for non-application of mind. According to

learned counsel for the appellant, the apparent vagueness in direction No.(3)

cannot be removed by the respondent who has claimed that the vagueness has been

removed by him through an Email dated 24.03.2021. 8. Lastly, it has been submitted on behalf of the appellant that litigations

initiated by the parties before Delhi High Court and Bombay High Court and the

orders passed therein have not been properly appreciated by the learned AO and

that AO should have declined to proceed with the complaint. The impugned order

has been criticized further on the ground that such submissions advanced on behalf

of the appellant have been rejected sub silentio without providing any reason for

such rejection. 9. On behalf of appellant reliance has been placed upon a judgment of this

Tribunal in the case of M/s Total Telefilms Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s Prasar Bharti and

other connected matters reported in (2008) SCC OnLine TDSAT 669 and

particularly on Para 54 of the said judgment which relies upon a Supreme Court 9 judgment in support of its strong disapproval of attempt of the petitioner in that

case to seek relief simultaneously in two fora. 10. The aforesaid contentions have been strongly refuted on behalf of the

respondent. The stand of the respondent is that this proceeding through a

complaint before the AO Filed on 14.01.2021 is not a counterblast to the suit of the

appellant before Delhi High Court filed on 09.11.2020 which is only to restrain

infringement of copyright look and feel of appellant's website. The respondent has

also justified its filing a police complaint on 15.12.2020 and later a civil suit before

the Bombay High Court on 18.01.2021 alleging violation of various provisions of

the Copyright Act, 1957 and Trade Marks Act, 1999 by the appellant. 11. Learned Senior Counsel for the respondent has countered the issues relating

to proprietory data on the platform of the respondent by drawing inferences from

pleadings of the appellant. According to respondent the appellant has admitted that

the data on the platform of the respondent is proprietory. But as noted earlier, the

stand of the appellant is that since the respondent is an intermediary, the data on its

platform belongs to third parties. An alternative submission has been made that

even if respondent is accepted to be only an intermediary, the appellant could not

have used respondent's Patent, Source Code, Meta Tags, Keywords, watermarks, 10 trade name etc. Respondent has placed reliance upon sample screenshots from

Pgs.1219 to 1233 of the paperback to support its allegation that it is the appellant

who has indulged in data theft and it has also claimed that such data was its

proprietory data. Respondent has alleged that appellant has been deleting

respondent's proprietory content/images from its platform in a pre-planned manner

and there is no substance in the stand of the appellant that deletion of data at

regular intervals is in accordance with policy of the applicant. 12. It is also the stand of the respondent that there is no merit in the allegation of

forum shopping leveled against the respondent and that it is entitled to exercise all

its rights to seek remedies available under various statutes and there is no bar on

such a course of action by the respondent. 13. On behalf of respondent it has been pointed out that in Cyber Appeal

No.2/2014 decided by this Tribunal, disputes between the parties had led to

multiple litigations and that Delhi High Court in the case Abhinav Gupta Vs. JCB

India Ltd. & Ors. , 2010 (119) DRJ 397 has held that a suit for copyright violation

and a complaint under the IT Act can both be maintainable on the basis of

independent reliefs and causes of action. It has also been contended on behalf of

the respondent that in obedience to the direction of the Adjudicating Officer in the 11 impugned order made on the basis of Rule 9 of the Enquiry Rules, both the parties

had to withdraw any case filed in relation to the same matter pending before any

other forum. It has been submitted on behalf of the respondent that in the

pleadings, 26000 instances of respondent's proprietory data on the platform of the

appellant has been alleged and some instances have also been provided. By his

Email dated 24.03.2021, the respondent provided to the appellant the details of

such instances for compliance with the direction No.(3) in the impugned order.

Lastly, it has been submitted that the appellant is pre-judging the issue and trying

to curb the powers of the Adjudicating Officer under the IT Act when the AO is

yet to pass a final order on the basis of evidence to be produced by the parties and

after final hearing on the complaint. Large number of case laws have been referred

to in support of the aforesaid stand of the respondent. 14. In view of nature of the order proposed to be passed, it is not deemed

necessary to go into detailed facts referred to and relied upon by the parties or on

the case laws. This Tribunal has already noted that the impugned order is

interlocutory in nature and rights of the parties have not been decided as yet. In

such circumstances it will be not be in the interest of either of the parties to pass a

detailed order on the merits of the case set-up by the parties. In respect of orders

passed by AO this Tribunal is an appellate Tribunal and hence, it would not be 12 proper to pass an order on merits in a matter which has not been decided by the AO

finally. A detailed order on merits would be akin to an original order and not an

appellate order. Hence such a course has to be avoided at the present stage of

proceedings. 15. Keeping the aforesaid aspect in mind, in the light of submissions of both the

parties and after going through the impugned order carefully, it is found that

direction No.(3) forcing the petitioner to produce documents without specifying

such documents on the basis of very certain identification or detailed in any list

furnished by the complainant, renders the direction No.(3) vague and incapable of

compliance. Such defect in a quasi-judicial or judicial order cannot be cured by a

party to the lis by giving details of documents later through an Email or any other

means. On the basis of this finding direction No.(3) in the impugned order is set

aside. Since this Tribunal has not gone into the merits of issues involved in

direction No.(3) but has gone only on an apparent lacunae of vagueness, the issues

on merits relating to direction No.(3) are remitted to the learned AO who shall hear

the parties in detail if pressed by the parties, and shall re-determine this aspect of

the controversy as per law. 16. It is useful to indicate that when some related issues are pending before

Constitutional Courts such as a High Court, the orders passed by such courts, more

so between the parties deserve highest respect despite the provisions in Rule 9.

This should also be kept in mind while passing order in accordance with law. 17. So far as direction No.(4) is concerned, the finding recorded therein as to

sufficiency of cause to hold enquiry against the respondent under Rule 4(g) of the

Enquiry Rules has been assailed mainly on the ground that the contentions

advanced on behalf of the appellant for dropping the proceedings for lack of

sufficient allegation and materials and on account of pendency of similar subject

matter before the High Court has not been discussed and no finding has been

arrived at with respect to such submissions. In other words, the criticism of the

appellant is that the impugned finding sub silentio rejects the contention of the

appellant relating to this issue without indicating reasons. On the other hand, the

stand of the respondent is that large number of materials as well as sufficient

allegations/pleadings are available for initiating an enquiry as ordered by direction

No.(4). 18. On a careful appraisal of the impugned order it is found that submissions of

the learned counsel for the parties have been noted but no findings, even prima 14 facie, have been given in the impugned order for rejecting the objections to further

enquiry, raised on behalf of the appellant nor reasons for taking a view contrary to

the stand of the appellant can be deciphered from the impugned order. Ordinarily,

this Tribunal would not have interfered with direction No.(4) but there are

substantial aspects including pendency of cases filed by both the parties before

High Courts and orders passed therein as well as issues relating to proprietory data,

the manner or mode of theft of data allegedly committed by the appellant or its

absence etc., which require the learned AO to go into some more details before

deciding whether to hold further enquiry under Rule 4(g) of the Enquiry Rules or

not. At the interim stage some findings may not be final and may be only prima

facie but reasons should be apparent for taking one view or the other. 19. The aforesaid discussion has been made with a view to find out whether the

issues relating to direction No.(4) also deserve to be remitted to the learned AO or

not. On a careful consideration of larger aspects and issues involved even at the

interim stage in this particular case, the discussion of reasons for the finding in the

direction No.(4) is found to be insufficient to meet the requirements of a

judicial/quasi judicial order which is appealable. Hence, direction No.(4) is also

set aside and issues related thereto are also remitted back to the learned AO for

passing a fresh order in accordance with law. It is clarified that in respect of 15 direction No.(3) the defence of the respondent, inter alia, is that although interim

relief has been refused, this direction is in the nature of an order on discovery and

production of documents. In view of such defence, this aspect should also be kept

in mind and if required, the complainant/respondent herein may be given

an0020opportunity to file an appropriate application for seeking direction No.(3) in

a different manner. But in that event also, the other side must be given an

opportunity to contest such an application; any order should be passed only after

hearing the parties and in accordance with law. 20. The appeal is allowed to the aforesaid extent. There shall be no order as to

costs. ..........................J
 (Shiva Kirti Singh)
 Chairperson

 ............................... (Subodh Kumar Gupta)
 Member
sks