(06.07.2019)

Bhaskar Raj Pradhan, J 1. The locus classicus on the concept of "anticipatory bail" 2. Emphasizing the need to preserve the personal liberty

of the Applicant the learned Senior Counsel submitted that

the Applicant was not involved in any crime for which

punishment prescribed was death or imprisonment for life.

He pointed out the order dated 04.06.2019 passed by the

learned Judicial Magistrate, 1st Class, East Sikkim and

submitted that the co-accused had already been granted

regular bail. He would draw this Courts attention to a

certificate issued by Katihar Medical College, Bihar dated

25.05.2019 and emphasise that he was a sick person. The

learned Senior Counsel stressed that the Applicant hails

from a respectable family. His father Dr. Saibal Gupta is

1 (1980) 2 SCC 565
2 (2011) 1 SCC 694 3 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

presently a Professor and Head of the Department of

Forensic Medicine, Katihar Medical College, Bihar and also

its Medical Superintendent and Vice Principal. The Applicant

himself is a Doctor by profession and running a Nursing

Home at Malbazar, Jalpaiguri, West Bengal. The Applicant's

mother works in a school in Katihar and his wife is also a

medical graduate associated with running the Nursing Home

with her husband. The learned Senior Counsel drew the

attention of this Court to the order dated 30.05.2019 passed

by the learned Sessions Judge, East Sikkim at Gangtok in

Criminal Misc. Case (Bail) No. 20 of 2019. This was on an

application for anticipatory bail filed by the Applicant in

anticipation of his arrest for the same FIR for which, after its

rejection, the Applicant seeks protection from this Court.

One of the main contentions, much emphasised by the

learned Senior Counsel, is that the Applicant was not

implicated in the FIR. 3. The State is being represented from the date of the first

hearing itself. Mr. S.K. Chettri, learned Assistant Public

Prosecutor for the Respondent vehemently objected to the

grant of anticipatory bail to the Applicant. It was submitted

that substantial materials have been collected which directly

implicate the Applicant. The said materials were placed

before this Court for its perusal along with the case diary. 4 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

The learned Assistant Public Prosecutor submitted that the

Petitioner is also involved in yet another case for which

another FIR bearing no. 201/2018 dated 21.09.2018

(previous FIR) under Section 419 IPC has been registered in

the Sadar Thana, East District at Gangtok against the

Applicant. It was pointed out that the previous FIR also

reflects identical modus operandi as involved in the present

FIR for defrauding aspirants for medical seats in Sikkim

Manipal Institute of Medical Sciences (SMIMS). It was stated

that although attempts have been made to arrest the

Applicant he has been evading it. The learned Assistant

Public Prosecutor relied upon the judgment of this Court in

re: Susanta Kumar Sahoo v. State of Sikkim3 and submitted

that an absconder is not entitled to anticipatory bail. 4. As held by the Constitutional Bench of the Supreme

Court in re: Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) Section 438 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( Cr.P.C .) which is

concerned with personal liberty cannot be whittled down by

reading restrictions and limitation into it. In order to meet

the challenge of Article 21 of the Constitution of India the

procedure established by law for depriving a person of his

liberty must be fair, just and reasonable. Gurbaksh Singh

Sibbia was a Minister in the Congress Ministry of the

3 (2014) SCC OnLine Sikk. 68 5 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

Government of Punjab. Grave allegations of political

corruption were made against him. The matter travelled to

the Supreme Court from the judgment of a full Bench of the

High Court of Punjab and Haryana dismissing the

application for anticipatory bail. 5. The Constitutional Bench noticed that the Cr.P.C . did

not contain any specific provision corresponding to the

present Section 438 Cr.P.C. It was also noticed that the Law

Commission of India, in its 41st report dated September 24,

1969 pointed out the necessity of introducing a provision for

grant of anticipatory bail. The necessity for granting

anticipatory bail, it was observed in the report arose mainly

because sometimes influential persons try to implicate their

rivals in getting them detained in jail for some days. In

recent times, with the accentuation of political rivalry, these

tendencies were showing signs of steady increase. It was

observed that apart from false cases, where there are

reasonable grounds for holding that a person accused of an

offence is not likely to abscond, or otherwise misuse his

liberty while on bail, there seems no justification to require

him first to submit to custody, remain in prison for some

days and then apply for bail. It was observed that it would

not be practicable to lay down conditions under which alone 6 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

anticipatory bail could be granted and Superior Courts

would undoubtedly exercise their discretion properly. 6. The Supreme Court held in re: Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia

(supra) that in regard to anticipatory bail, if the proposed

accusation appears to stem not from motive of furthering the

ends of justice but from some ulterior motive, the object

being to injure and humiliate the Applicant by having him

arrested, a direction for the release of the Applicant on bail

in the event of his arrest would generally be made. However,

besides making a statement that he is innocent and not

involved in the alleged commission of offence the Applicant

herein has neither pleaded nor placed any material to show

that from some ulterior motive to injure and humiliate him

he was sought to be arrested. 7. The Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court also

held that on the other hand, if it appears likely, considering

the antecedents of the Applicant, that taking advantage of

the order of anticipatory bail he will flee from justice such an

order would not be made. The submissions of the learned

Assistant Public Prosecutor were focused on the fact that in

spite of the two FIRs the Applicant has been fleeing from

justice. Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019 8. The fact that the Applicant was aware of similar

accusation made against him in the previous FIR but did not

disclose about it in the application before this Court does not

auger well with his claim of innocence. 9. Mr. A. K. Upadhayaya submitted that although the

Applicant had in fact approached the Sessions Court for

anticipatory bail apprehending arrest in connection with the

same FIR there was no impediment in law to approach the

High Court for anticipatory bail once again as he was

approaching a higher Court. 10. Section 438 Cr.P.C. permits any person who has reason

to believe that he may be arrested on accusation of having

committed a non-bailable offence to approach the High

Court or the Court of Session for anticipatory bail. 11. The Applicant approached the Sessions Court under Section 438 Cr.P.C. which was rejected vide order dated

30.05.2019. The Applicant has not filed copy of the

application for anticipatory bail preferred before the Sessions

Court. The order dated 30.05.2019 reflects that the

Applicant had sought to impress the learned Sessions Judge

that there is every possibility of him being arrested in

connection with the present FIR and that there is no

material against him. It was submitted that the CID is

determined to arrest the Applicant only to humiliate and 8 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

harass him. As argued by Mr. A. K. Upadhayaya before this

Court it was also submitted before the learned Sessions

Judge that Section 438 Cr.P.C. confers ample powers to

protect the Applicant from unjustified arrest when there is

no material against him. 12. The said application for anticipatory bail before the

Sessions Court was objected to by the learned Public

Prosecutor. It was submitted that the offence is of wide

magnitude having great adverse impact on the society in as

much as large number of gullible students and their parents

were cheated by the Applicant on the false promise of

securing admission in the medical institute. It was pointed

out that clinching materials pointing directly towards the

involvement of the Applicant were available. Though FIR was

registered on 16.03.2019 the Applicant had been evading the

Investigating Officer and thus proper investigation has not

been possible. The involvement of the Applicant could also

be seen from other documentary evidence. It was also

pointed out that the Applicant was involved in a similar

matter earlier and therefore his custodial interrogation was

required and if released on bail there was every possibility of

the Applicant abusing his liberty. 13. The learned Sessions Judge examined the case

materials, including the statements of witnesses, case diary 9 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

and rejected the application for anticipatory bail. It was held

that the alleged offences could not be viewed lightly and the

same are of great magnitude affecting not only the education

system but the society at large. The role of the Applicant was

prima facie direct in the commission of the alleged offence.

Nothing convincing was put forward to suggest false

implication. No explanation was forthcoming regarding the

involvement in similar incidents on earlier occasion although

the learned Public Prosecutor had submitted that he was

involved. Since the registration of the case it has not been

possible for the investigating agency to contact the

Applicant. 14. The rejection of anticipatory bail application by the

learned Sessions Judge is not in appeal or revision. The

present application for anticipatory bail is an independent

application filed on 07.06.2019 barely one month after the

rejection of the anticipatory bail application by the learned

Sessions Judge. 15. A three Judge Bench of the Rajasthan High Court in re: can be filed if there is a change in the fact situation or in law
 which requires the earlier view being interfered with or where the
 earlier finding has become obsolete. ........" 16. One ground which has not been dealt with by the

learned Sessions Judge is the ground of illness pressed

before this Court. The certificate of the Katihar Medical

College, Bihar is dated 25.05.2019. The said certificate

advices bed rest for the Applicant for a period of four weeks.

The period of four weeks expired on 22.06.2019. The

application for anticipatory bail was disposed by the learned

Sessions Judge on 30.05.2019 on which date the said

medical certificate dated 25.05.2019 ought to have been

available and if desired pressed before the Sessions Court.

However, there is no mention about any claim for bail on the

ground of illness before the Sessions Court. The certificate

dated 25.05.2019, it is noticed, has been issued by the same

Medical College in which the Applicant claims his father is

the Professor and Head of the Department of Forensic

Medicine as well as the Medical Superintendent and Vice

Principal. In any case it is quite evident that the Applicant

has had more than his share of rest needed for his ailment, 11 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

if at all. This ground therefore, would not per se entitle him

for anticipatory bail. 17. The next contention which needs to be addressed is the

claim of parity as the co-accused in the FIR had been

granted bail by the learned Judicial Magistrate vide order

dated 04.06.2019. The order dated 04.06.2019 was passed

on an application for regular bail. The learned Judicial

Magistrate thought it fit to grant bail to the Petitioner therein

on the ground that the offence is not punishable with death

or imprisonment for life and that there was nothing on

record to show that the Petitioner shall abscond or tamper

with evidence and witnesses for the prosecution. In the

present case the case diary reflects that the Applicant fled

when sought to be apprehended. In spite of knowledge of two

FIRs lodged against him the record reflects that the

Applicant has failed to join the investigations. A perusal of

the order dated 30.05.2019 passed by the learned Sessions

Judge reflects that the Applicant had filed another bail

application no. 3 of 2015 before this Court in yet another

case. The learned Assistant Public Prosecutor submits that

the failure of the Applicant to join in the investigation has

hampered the investigation. In the circumstances, no parity

can be claimed for an order of anticipatory bail on the

ground that the co-accused has secured regular bail. No 12 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

further change in circumstance or changes in the law have

been pleaded by the Applicant. 18. Mr. A. K. Upadhayaya strenuously urged that if granted

anticipatory bail he would join in the investigation. The fact

that he had moved the Sessions Court for anticipatory bail

more than a month prior to approaching this Court does

reflect that the Applicant is aware of the accusation of the

commission of cheating by personation; forgery for the

purpose of cheating; using as genuine forged document or

electronic record; cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery

of property; criminal conspiracy; identity theft and cheating

by personation by using computer resource made against

him. It is also evident that the Applicant was made aware of

lodgement of the previous FIR at least during the hearing of

his anticipatory bail application before the Sessions Court.

The case diary however, reflects that he has not only evaded

arrest but fled from justice when sought to be apprehended. 19. This Court is strongly of the opinion that this is

therefore not a fit case for exercising discretion under Section 438 Cr.P.C. in favour of the Applicant. It does not

sound to reason to arm the Applicant with anticipatory bail

when pitted against such grave allegation of defrauding

young medical aspirants with the lure of admission in

SMIMS. The fact that there are more than one FIR registered 13 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

for similar offences reveal the gravity of the situation. In

such circumstances, custodial interrogation may be a

necessity and consequently it would greatly harm the

investigation and impede the prospect of further

investigation if the Applicant is granted anticipatory bail. 20. On the touchstone of the law declared by the Supreme

Court in re: Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre (supra) while

considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory bail the

balance in favour of the investigating agency to ensure free

fair and full investigation, far outweighs all other

consideration sought to be projected in favour of the

Applicant. In any case no ground to satisfy the reason for

which Section 438 was originally incorporated in Cr.P.C has

been urged or made out by the Applicant. Per contra, both

Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia (supra) and Siddharam Satlingappa

Mhetre (supra) were relating to alleged political rivalry. Unless

the investigating agency is given a free hand in the light of

the allegations made against the Applicant the absolute

truth may not surface. The materials collected by the

investigating agency so far placed for perusal before this

Court does reflect prima facie involvement of the Applicant in

the offences alleged. The lodging of more than one FIR for

commission of similar offences for different periods of time

also reflects accusation of repeated commission of similar 14 Sumantra Gupta v. State of Sikkim
 Bail Application No. 01 of 2019

 offences. Considering the conduct of the Applicant which has

 definitely not been amenable for investigation thus far the

 question of granting anticipatory bail does not arise. 21. The application for anticipatory bail is rejected. ( Bhaskar Raj Pradhan )
 Judge
 06.07.2019

 Approved for reporting: yes. to/ Internet: yes.