SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [RANT] Why is it so hard to get anything done in India?
DATE: 2017-10-27
SCORE: 179
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7911qp/rant_why_is_it_so_hard_to_get_anything_done_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

Rant incoming

(Plus a warning never to buy anything from Pepperfry)

After I got married and moved into a new home, the first thing I bought was a dining table

Searched around a lot in my local markets and online. All local market furniture was strong ("mazboot", as my dad would say) but hopelessly outdated and chunky. 

Online, there were pretty much only two major sellers - UrbanLadder and PepperFry. 

We eventually settled on a 4-chair set from Pepperfry. 

Looked beautiful and a lot of people asked us where we got it from. 

Until 3 months later when the chairs started feeling like they were going to break if you leaned too far back

And that's exactly what happened: a friend leaned back and the chair broke into two. 

Furniture is supposed to last years, not break in 3 months.

Then began the endless phone calls to Pepperfry to get them to fix the problem (the thing was under a year long warranty). 

They first assured me that they would send a replacement But four weeks of nearly daily follow-ups later, the replacement failed to show up. I had to threaten to drag them to consumer court before I could reach a manager.

The manager eventually admitted that they didnt have a replacement and that the product had a manufacturing defect. The other chairs would break too given time. He agreed to do a complete refund.

So now I had to buy a new dining table.

Since I had already been burned by online sellers, I decided to go local

Trouble was, no local seller had anything close to what I wanted. After scouring the markets, one furniture seller emphatically declared that he could make whatever I wanted within a week

Instead of a week, it took him three weeks (again, after endless follow-ups).

And last night, this is what he turned up with:

 https://imgur.com/a/j0Cso

Just look at the damn thing. The fucking lines are crooked

How can you call yourself a carpenter if you can even cut in a straight line?

He says he can "fix" it but I know it's beyond redeemable.

And it wasnt cheap either - the quoted price was 20k for a four chair set

So ow I have to look for a dining table set all over again.

Why are things like this? Getting anything done means dealing with people out to scam you and people who are so woefully incompetent at their jobs.

Why is it so hard to find people who take pride in their work? Why do people say "1 week" but deliver in 3 weeks. And why do companies constantly lie to their customers and treat them like morons?

Or maybe I'm just an idiot with shit luck

/End rant