Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Issue regarding debit card fraud in major Indian banks. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): Madam Speaker, I want to draw the attention of the House to a very important issue. A massive debit card fraud in major Indian banks such as HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, YES Bank, Axis Bank and State Bank of India has been reported with the biggest ever financial data breaches in India. Several victims have reported unauthorized transactions that originated in China and also in the United States, in such frauds. … (Interruptions) The National Payments Corporation of India has ordered an inquiry in the hacking of approximately 3.2 million debit cards across the country. However, the hacking of debit cards on such a large scale has brought the Government and the banking security measures into question. … (Interruptions) I would also mention here that the breach is said to have originated in malware introduced in the system of Hitachi Payment Services, allowing them to steal funds. Hitachi provides ATMs, Points of Sale and other services. Forensic audit has now been ordered by Payment Council of India of Indian banks’ servers and system to detect the origin of frauds that might have hit the customers’ accounts. … (Interruptions) It is being said that around Rs. 10 crore has been siphoned off, but this is only pertaining to the allegation or what has been reported by the customers. It may be much more which has not been reported yet. Here lies the problem that our security mechanism in banking system has been hacked, and money has been transferred. This gives a very serious turn to the cashless mechanism that you are going to have. Unless our system is surrounded by a firewall, it cannot protect our system. … (Interruptions) A forensic audit is being conducted, Madam. But I would like to understand from the Government or let the Government come back to this House with a full report relating to the forensic audit, and what steps the NPCI has taken in this regard. … (Interruptions) HON. SPEAKER: