1. Petitioner seeks a Mandamus or an appropriate direction to the second respondent to issue application forms for Part II, M.B.B.S. Examination enabling him to appear for the said examination and seeks a further direction to the second respondent to accept the said application forms and permit the petitioner to appear for Part II, M.B.B.S. Examination. 2. petitioner is a student of first year M.B.B.S. Course having obtained provisio-nal admission in Osmania Medical College --second respondent herein against; a seat reserved for Scheduled Tribe Candidates. It is stated that having obtained provisional ad- mission in the first year M.B.B.S. Course the petitioner has been prosecuting his studies and has also appeared for Part I Examination in the month of November, 1994. The memorandum of marks was issued to him on 24-1-1995 by the Deputy Registrar (Examina-tions), University of Health Sciences, Vijaya-wada. It is stated that after one and half years course, the University of Health Sciences, Andbra Pradesh is planning to hold Part II Examination for M.B.B.S. Course. It is further stated that in order to participate in the Part II Examinations, the second respondent has,to issue necessary application forms. The petitioner approached the second respondent authorities for issuance of such forms which was refused to him on the ground that the enquiry as to the social status claim of the petitioner is pending before the third respondent and no report has been received from the third respondent clearing the social status claim of the petitioner to be a member of Schedule Tribe. 3. Petitioner states that he appeared before third re'pondent on 27-12-1994 and filed necessary certificates enabtirig them to make enquiry. Having obtained necessary particulars, the third respondent has hot completed the enquiry with the result the petitioner is now prevented from appearing at the Part II of M.B.B.S. Course and hence, the present Writ Petition is filed, seeking ap-propriate directions. 4. Sri N. Rama Mohan Rao learned counsel appearing on behalf of Sri S. Rajeshwar Reddy, learned counsel for the petitioner raises two important questions in this
Writ Petition, viz., 
 

 
(1) Whether the second respondent-College has any right to prevent a bona fide student from appearing in the M.B.B.S. Examination ? (2) Without putting" a student on notice, can any adverse action be initiated by the respondents ? 5. In order of traverse with the principal submissions made on behalf of the petitioner. it would be necessary to deal with the relevant rules governing the admission to various

professional courses against claims to be Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes, and the binding nature of the enquiry report on.the students whose social status claims are to be cleared by the respective Directorates. 6. The petitioner was granted provisional admission on the basis of his claim to be a member of Scheduled Tribe. The University of Health Sciences, Vijayawada has framed rules for admission to first year M.B.B.S. Course for the academic year 1993-94 (hereinafter referred to as the "relevant rules"). Sub-rule (D) of Rule (7) which is aspecific provision dealing with reservation of seats, postulates that a candidate belonging to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Backward Classes shall in support of his claim, furnish a certificate in the prescribed form appended to the application. The social status of Scheduled Gaste, Scheduled Tribe and Backward Classes candidates shall be subjected tothe scrutiny and confirmation by the Director of Social Welfare, Director of Tribal Welfare and Director fo Backward Classes Welfare of Andhra Pradesh respectively and their decision is final and. binding on the candidate. 7. These rules are so framed to check the malafide claims made-by candidates other than members of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Class and to weed out any bogus claims at the threshold itself. Any admission granted to a student who claims to be a member of these categories is only provisional and is subjected to clearance from the respective Directorates. 8. The petitioner has no doubt, produced
a certificate along with his admission form,
said to have been issued by the Manda.l
Revenue Officer, Nalgonda, dated 25-7-1994
indicating that he belongs to 'Erukala Com- munity which is recognied as Scheduled
Tribe. 9. The procedure after granting provi-sional admission to students of these categories is that the students must necessarily appear before the respective Directorates i.e., Director of Social Welfare, Director of Tribal

Welfare and Director of Backward Classes Welfare, as the case may be, and furnish necessary details before those authorities enabling them to further investigate into the matter so as to find out the bonafides of the claim of social status of the respective candidates. 10. When the matter came up for admis-ision, the learned Government pleader for Social Welfare Was directed by this Court to plate the entire record pertaining to the enquiry stated to have been contemplated by the third respondent so as to verify the statement of the petitioner that he has submitted all the relevant documents before the third respondent on 27-12-1994 itself and the third respondent is sleeping over the matter which has resulted in denial of appearing in Part II Examination which action has culmination of infringement of right granted to him under Article 342 of the Constitution of India. As directed, the learned Government Pleader on the next date of hearing, has placed before me the entire, record pertaining to the enquiry contemplat-ed by the third respondent so far. 11. It is evident from the record that the
Director of Tribal Welfare, on information
that the second respondent i.e., the Principal; Osmania Medical College has granted ad mis
sion to as many as 12 candidates under the
quota meant for Scheduled Tribes, requested
the second respondent by a letter dated 676- 12. Petitioner though under obligation to appear before the third respondent for getting his social status cleared as required under the relevant admission rules, was intimated by the second respondent directing him to appear before the third respondent on 20-7-1994 through a letter dated 12-7-1994. On the said date, the petitioner though appeared, requested the third respondent to grant time for bringing his parenis and for furnishing relevant documents, upto 25-7-1994 which is evident from the letter dated 20-7-1994 (at page 31 of the record). As the petitioner failed to appear before the third respondent, the third respondent adressed a letter to the Registrar, University of Health Sciences, Vijayawada on 5-8-1994 requesting him to direct the second respondent for instructing the three students including the petitioner to apear before the third respondent for further enquiry so that their social status claims could be completed at an early date, which letter is available at page 43 of the record. The third respondent has addressed letters to the second respondent also on 10-10-1994 (at page 93 of the record) and on 16-11-1994 (at page 107 of the record) requesting him to direct the petitioner to appear before the Director, Tribal Welfare for completing enquiry. 13. The second rspondent finally issued memo dated 30-11-1994 (at page 117 of the record) requiring the petitioner and others to appear before the third respondent and get attendance certificate to that effect, lest he will not be permitted to attend classes in future. Pursuant to the directions issued by all the authorities, the petitioner on 7-12-1994 appeared before the third respondent and files an application that he would bring his father or any elder member of his family on 19-12-1994 without fail and also place necessary certificates. On 19-12-1994, the petitioner though appeared before the third respondent, he was advised to come on 23-12-1994 along with relevant particulars and with his parents. Finally, the petitioner appeared before the. third respondent on 28-12-1994 and gave statement. On the said day, he was also accompanied by one Smt. Yellamma, said to be his mother, along with her photo which is being attested By Lay Secretary, Grade-II,

Osmania Medical College, Hyderabad. The
petitioner has also furnished some docu
ments. On the basis of the information
furnished by the petitioner regarding the
details of his studies in various schools and
nativity certificate etc., the enquiry is set in
motion by the third respondent. 14. The Commissioner of Tribal Welfare has a Special Branch known as "Research Wing". This Research Wing is manned by expert officials and is headed by a Director known as "Dirctor, Research Wing." The Officers go to the Tribunal areas, study the habits, customs, cultural and such other activities of the Tribals governing their system and prepare thesis and suggest ways and means to the Government of Andhra Pradesh for improving their living conditions. They also collect minute details about their sub-sects existing in each Tribal group. 15. As per the admission rules governing admission into professional Colleges, when the claim of social status is made by a particular candidate, the matter would be referred to the third respondent as required under the admission rules and the third respondent deputes the officials to investigate into the details as furnished by such candidate when he participates in the enquiry. On the basis of the information furnished by the petitioner, the third respondent has collected information which is available in the record. The petitioner who sought admission in the II class in the Primary School, Chintagudem, the Withdrawal Register details of which have been furnished by the Head Master of Chintagudem School, indicate that the name of the petitioner is written, as "Byreddi Seenaiah." As far as the claim of social status is concerned, in column -- 15, it is shown as "F. C." (at page 63 of the record.) The application for admission to the 8th Class in St. Alphonscs High School, Nalgonda, ad-mission number being 3729, dated 22-6-1988, the name of the petitioner is written as "B. Seenaiah." The social status claim in the said admission form is shown as "S. C." (at page 45 of. the record). In the Register of Admission and Withdrawal, a copy, of which is furnished by the Head Master, St. Al- phorises High School, Nalgonda for the year
1988/89. reference to the caste of the peti tioner, is shown as "S. C." at column No. 7 (page 51 of the record). As against his original
claim as "O.C." and the family name or
surname as "Byreddi Seenaiah." The peti
tioner now claims to be ''Bikumala Seenaiah"