The Court: - The company Gourepore Company Ltd was
directed to be wound up, on 26th November, 1997, by an order of
S.K. Sinha J. of this Court. It was at the instance of R.K.
Garodia and company, in a winding up application (C.P. 355 of
1997). Several applications are before me for consideration. They
have been made by various entities. There is a company by the name of Ashray Vyapar (Pvt.)
Ltd. It claims to have obtained assignment of the secured debts
of the company towards Industrial Instrument Bank of India
Allahabad Bank, Indian Bank and United Bank Of India by
Deeds of Assignment. This debt close to Rs. 50 Crores was
allegedly acquired by Ashray for only about Rs.9.5 crores. Now,
they claim to be in the shoes of these secured creditors. Hence,
they say they are the only secured creditor. There is another company by the name of Hilton Vinimay
(Pvt.) Ltd. It claims to have bought 32.46% of the paid up
capital, of the company in liquidation i.e., 3,11,664 shares after
 the winding up order. On 25th August, 2011, Ashray apparently
entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with Hilton, as a
result of which Ashray is today supporting the cause of Hilton to
run the undertakings as a going concern. The company, before liquidation had 3700 workers. They
should still be on the rolls maintained by the Official Liquidator.
They have six unions. The claim by the workers on account of
their unpaid dues is around Rs. 11 crores. Hilton has entered
into a Memorandum of Understanding with the workers, also on
3rd September, 2011. As a result of this their learned counsel,
Mr. Sarbapriyo Mukherjee submitted that the workers were
supporting Hilton to run the company. Other companies and persons have also made applications
for orders from this court convening meetings of creditors to
consider their respective schemes of arrangement for revival of
the company. I will first briefly discuss the nature and scope of the
applications before me which are for other reliefs but indirectly
connected with the schemes for revival of the company. 1) Hilton Vinimay Pvt. Ltd. (C.A. 145 of 2009)

 Hilton made an application on 25th February, 2009 for stay of
the winding up order and for appointment of a Special Officer to
transfer 3,11,664 equity shares allegedly purchased by them
from the Poddar Group. They also asked for prayers for calling a general meeting of
the company for constituting the Board of Directors with the
Special Officer as the Chairman. Directions, were also sought,
on the Board of Directors to frame a scheme for revival of the
company. 2) Hilton Vinimay Pvt. Ltd. (C.A. 326 of 2009)

 This application was made by Hilton seeking orders from this
Court for validation of 3,11,664 equity shares of Rs. 10/- each in
the company, said to be fully paid up, purchased by them
subsequent to commencement of winding up. This application
has asked for consequential reliefs directing lodging of these
shares along with the transfer deeds, with the Official Liquidator
for registration thereof. These shares were claimed to have been
purchased from Raghuvar Management Pvt. Ltd. 3) Hilton Vinimay Pvt. Ltd. (C.A. 314 of 2009)

 This application was filed by Vinimoy for referring the matter
back to the BIFR for considering the scheme presented by them
and Ashray Pvt. Ltd. for revival of the Company. 4) Gourepore Jute Mill Shramik Union (C.A. 975 of 2010)

 This is an application by the workers' union to intervene in
the winding up petition C.P. 355 of 1997 for stay of order dated
26th November, 1997 and for constitution of a Board of
Directors. 5) Ashray Vyaapar Private Limited

 This is an application by Ashray for liberty to provide watch
and ward service to the assets of the company. Provisions of Law: The right to move the company court is vested in a creditor
or a contributory. Under this section the court has the power, on
an application by a creditor or a contributory, to stay the
winding up proceedings, after a winding up order. The stay of
proceedings is to be on such terms and conditions as the Court
thinks fit and proper. This section, in my opinion vests the court with the power
of entrusting the management of the company (in liquidation)
with a person or persons in whom it has confidence, by
temporarily keeping the winding up in abeyance. This person or
body of person could be asked by the court to run the business
of the company, for a limited period of time. The court is to
always supervise this activity. This kind of running of the affairs
of the company after winding up can only be with a view to its
revival. The court should constantly watch this new organisation
and ascertain whether it is successfully reviving the company. If
it does, by effectively paying off the creditors of the company, the
court might eventually order setting aside of the winding up
order and entrust its affairs in such hands as it thinks fit and
proper. If the Court finds, after a specific period of time that this
person or body of persons is unable to revive the company, it
might vacate its order staying the winding up and order that the
winding up of the company be carried out (see Mahabir Prasad
 Agarwalla Vs. Ashkaran Chattar Singh reported in 85 CWN
567 at 581, 582). Another section which was cited, was Section 391(1) and
(2) of the said Act. It is inter alia in the following terms. 391. (1) Where a compromise or
 arrangement is proposed_ (a) between a company and its
 creditors or any class of them; or (b) between a company and its
 members or any class of them; the Court may, on the application of the
 company or of any creditor or member of
 the company, or, in the case of a
 company which is being would up of the
 liquidator; order a meeting of the
 creditors or class of creditors, or of the
 members or class of members, as the
 case may be, to be called, held and
 conducted in such manner as the Court
 directs. (2) If a majority in number representing
 three-fourths in view of the creditors, or
 class of creditors, or members, or class
 of members, as the case may be, present
 and voting either in person or, where
 proxies are allowed [under the rules
 made under section 643 ], by, proxy, at
 the meeting, agree to any compromise or
 arrangement, the compromise or
 arrangement shall, if sanctioned by the
 Court, be binding on all the creditors, all
 the creditors of the class, all the
 members, or all the members of the
 class, as the case may be, and also on
 the company, or, in the case of a
 company which is being wound up, on
 the liquidator and contributories of the
 company. This section is about a compromise or arrangement
between a company and its creditors or a company and its
members. In the case of "a Company which is being wound up" (2) In the case of a winding up by or subject
 to the supervision of the Court, any
 disposition of the property (including
 actionable claims) of the company, and any
 transfer of shares in the company or
 alteration in the status of its members, made
 after the commencement of the winding up,
 shall, unless the Court otherwise orders, be
 void. The Official Liquidator has filed a most responsible written
submission to supplement the submissions of Mrs Sikdar,
learned advocate, which is noted at this stage. Industrial Security Agency was engaged by the four secured
creditor banks to provide security service. The Official Liquidator
acknowledges that these banks have left after assigning their
debts in favour of Ashray. It appears from the letter of the
agency dated 30th June 2011 that a sum of Rs.3,77,429.31 is
outstanding. The Official Liquidator refuses to pay this
outstanding for inter alia the reason that he has no funds.
Ashray has agreed to bear the security expenses w.e.f. 1st
April,2014.However in the notes of submission he says that his
office has paid a sum of Rs 65,58,300/- towards security
expenses for the period from 12th January,2009 to
 February,2014.Further, expenses have been made by the
Official Liquidator, aggregating to Rs.68,47,775 in the whole.
This sum has been spent from the funds of the Official
Liquidator received from the Central government for
establishment expenses which is liable to be reimbursed to him. As per the last balance sheet of the company its liability is
Rs.8,14,02,556, including a secured loan of about Rs 7 crores
and unsecured loan of about a crore. The only creditor to have filed its claim before the Official
Liquidator, according to his notes is the Provident Fund,
authority in the shape of an affidavit of proof of debt. THE SCHEMES

 The question now is whether this Court should exercise its
powers under section 466 of the said Act. For invocation of powers under this section one has to be a
creditor or a contributory. No doubt, there is a considerable body of authorities which
says that the court must make a genuine effort, in appropriate
cases, to revive or restart a company in liquidation. The object of
this exercise is to restore the source of livelihood to the
hundreds of workers who have been thrown into unemployment,
to restart a stopped industrial activity or a manufacturing
process, and to pay off creditors out of the profits of a running
business. There is also a belief that industrial undertakings in a
state must not shut down by winding up of companies. They
must grow and the shut ones should reopen. All this would
directly or indirectly result in industrial growth and prosperity
for the state. More often than not, after a winding up order is made in
relation to a company, the court is moved with applications by
various persons containing proposals for revival of the company
 in liquidation. Applications are often made by unscrupulous
persons with promises to revive the company but without the
intent, financial resources and expertise to do so. Once such a
person is inducted by the court to reopen a closed enterprise
and that person turns out to be a fraud or an incapable person,
it becomes a very difficult task for the Court to evict him and
restore the status quo ante. In the months or years he is in
charge of the affairs, he does no good to the company or its
workers , other creditors, contributories so on. Hence, the court is given a very onerous task of screening
these applications, considering some of them and taking the
decision whether to handover the reins of the company to a
person or enterprise. Now, let me analyse the merits of the applications for
convening meetings of creditors to accept their schemes for
revival of the company. I will consider the locus standi issue
later. 1) Hilton Vinimay Pvt. Ltd. (C.A. 894 of 2011)

 The applicant allegedly acquired after winding up of the
company, 3,11,664 equity shares of Rs.10/- each of the
company in liquidation from the "Poddar Group". As a result of
the winding up order the applicant has not been registered in
the register of members of the company as the owner of these
shares. The workers are in favour of reopening of the company.
They are about four thousand in number. The workers have
extended support to the applicant. The applicant has entered into an agreement with the
principal trade unions on 3rd September, 2011. The applicant
prayed for acceptance of their scheme of rehabilitation which is
annexure 'I' to the application and constitution of an interim
board to manage the company, by this Court. The Scheme has some special features. There is a so called
Memorandum of Understanding dated 25th August 2011 between
Hilton and Ashray. According to this document after the
sanction of the scheme of Hilton it will make a "down payment" 1,24,57,500/-. This debt allegedly arose on account of unpaid
price of goods. The applicant company Sprint claims to be the
assignee of the debt of one Dilip Kumar Maheshwari of a sum of
Rs. 14,19,794.10/-. By the application Sprint prayed for
convening of a meeting of the unsecured creditors of the
company for the purpose of considering and if thought fit
approving with or without modification the scheme of
arrangement/compromise proposed by the scheme.
 The least said about this company and its scheme, the better.
It is evident from their balance sheet for the year ending 31st
March,2011 that the loan and advances obtained by the
company is close to double its shareholders` funds and Reserve
and Surplus combined. Its fixed assets after depreciation is less
than Rs 10 lacs. It earned a slender profit of only
Rs.4,22,689.98, in the year ending 31st March, 2011 according
to the Profit and Loss account for the same period. They have stated in their submissions that they would borrow
money from the market but would not charge the assets of the
company. One wonders how much money they would be able to
borrow on the basis of the above Balance Sheet and Profit and
loss account. These applicants have not been able to bring any
fund. There are tall promises in the scheme of phase wise payment
towards the liabilities of the company. There is nothing to
suggest how this jute mill closed down for decades would be
started. Nothing about how the static machinery would be set
into motion again. One wonders from where the raw materials
and other stock in trade would come, who would pay for them. If
at all the mill is started, how much would be produced initially,
how much when, is not started in the scheme. Nobody has
bothered to make a market survey or make a projection. I do not even think it necessary to place this scheme before
the creditors. It is so devoid of merit. 3) Sohanlal Chandanmull & Co. (C.A. 931 of 2010)

 These four applicants claim to be unsecured creditors and
want to be added parties in the winding up application. In the
said application they have broadly supported the scheme of
Hilton to revive the company. 4) Jupiter International Ltd. (C.A. 245 of 2012)

 Kamal Kumar Patwari, the second applicant claims to be the
constituted attorney of the first applicant company Jupiter
International Limited. The second applicant is described as an
unsecured creditor of the company. He is said to have delivered
goods to the company on which his claim is said to be Rs.
4,11061/-. The first applicant is described as an enterprise with
great technical and financial resources. Its directors have a rich
experience in the jute and jute products industry of over 40
years, it is claimed. Its scheme sings the same tune as that of Sprint. No fund is
infused into the company. Promises are made for payment of the
dues of creditors. How the fund would come from and how such
payment would be made is not even remotely suggested. No
doubt the Profit and Loss Account of Jupiter International
Limited is far more respectable than Sprint. It shows a profit of
over Rs. 4 crores in the financial year ending 31st March, 2011.
A sum of Rs. 27 Crores is carried over to the balance sheet
taking into account profit carried forward from the previous
year. However, the company has a loan fund of about Rs. 75
crores and a net block of over Rs. 25 crores. The scheme is as bad as that of Sprint. It does not say how
the raw-materials will come, who will start the machinery, how
production is to commence and continue. It does not tell us
anything about the market, sale and so on. The scheme only
makes tall promises to the creditors for payment of their dues
when no foundation on the basis of which these payments are
promised, is disclosed. There is nothing in the scheme to impress the Court. 5) Dolphin Vintrade Pvt. Ltd. and Rakhecha Trading
 Company (C.A. 453 of 2013)

 This application is made by Dolphin Vintrade Pvt. Ltd. and
Rakhecha Trading Company as applicants. They want an order
from this Court convening a meeting of unsecured creditors for
the purpose of considering the scheme of
arrangement/compromise proposed by the applicants. It is averred in paragraph-9 of the application that the second
applicant is an unsecured creditor of the company. The debt of
the company towards this applicant was Rs.16,55,762/-. On
14th March, 2013 the second applicant has assigned Rs.
8,00,000/- of its claim to the first applicant. Hence, both are
creditors of the company and have the necessary locus standi to
maintain this application, it was submitted. As rightly pointed out by learned counsel for some of the other
applicants, the alleged deed of assignment is doubtful. It is on a
Rs. 100/- non-judicial stamp paper. The second applicant has
not been able to produce any document to establish their claim
to the above debt. It has not applied before the official liquidator
to adjudicate it. If the claim of the second applicant is dubious, what could be
said about the right of the first applicant which asserts an
assignment of the said claim. in its favour? The first applicant has been able to show a slender profit of
Rs. 19,583.50 for the period ending 31st March, 2012. I do not
think that this company has any fixed assets. The scheme proposed by the applicant is equally
unimpressive. No fund is brought into the company. Nothing is
shown how the mill would be re-opened and run. There is no
market survey, projection of sales etc.. Only tall promises are
made in the scheme, for payment to creditors.
 This application is as bad as those made by the other
applicants. To sum up, I am not at all impressed with the schemes put
forward in the applications. None of the schemes is bona fide
because the essential elements of a bona fide scheme are
lacking. There is no immediate infusion of funds into the
company. If there is no infusion of funds into the company, in no
way can the company start its operation. The promises in each
of the schemes are at best a dream. You cannot expect to restart
a company on borrowed capital because by trying to so restart
the company you are creating more liabilities. LOCUS STANDI

 None of the applicants, who made applications for
convening meetings of creditors for the purpose of consideration
of their respective schemes for revival of the company, impressed
me with regard to their locus standi. The applicants who held themselves out to be the creditors
of the company could not furnish any proof of the company's
debt towards them. No evidence of supply of goods like delivery
receipts, challans, contract papers etc between them and the
company were produced before the court. It is true that till today the Official Liquidator has not
invited claims of creditors under Rules 147, 148 (1) and 148(2)
of the Companies (Court) Rules, 1959. Hence, there is no
settlement of the list of creditors of the company by the Official
Liquidator. Even otherwise, some evidence ought to have been
produced by the creditors to support their claims against the
company. Even the alleged assignment of debts is insufficiently
stamped. It was argued before me that a scheme, if supported by the
secured creditors should be very appealing to the court. The
workers tried to back the scheme of Hilton. Hilton was also
 supported by Ashray, the alleged assignee of the four secured
creditors. These secured creditors seem to have assigned a debt
nearly Rs. 50 crores owning to them by the company, to Ashray
for a little over Rs. 9 Crores. The assignment certificate touches
immovable property. It is strange how this assignment could be
made without registration and without proper stamps. This
assignment of debts in favour of Ashray by the four secured
creditors is dubious in my opinion. No credence can be given to
their support for Hilton. Submissions were made before me that shares were goods
under Section 2(7) of the Sale of goods Act. 1930. Possession of
shares certificate was prima facie evidence of ownership of the
shares, under Section 84 , of the Companies Act, 1956. But this
provision has got nothing to do with Section 536 (2) of the
Companies Act, 1956 which makes it explicit that in the case of
winding up any disposition of shares after commencement of
winding up shall be void unless otherwise ordered by the court.
If the transaction is void there is no value of the shares
certificates. Neither can it be said that the property in the shares
has passed. The transferee gets no title. Equally flawed is the
argument that the transferors' in such cases are trustees for the
transferees. If the transfer is void ab initio the relationship of
trustee and beneficiary does not arise. Therefore, all these
arguments fail. I refuse to pass any order validating any transaction in
shares of this company after commencement of its winding up. None of the applicants with schemes has the locus standi
to come before the Court. Even on merits, none of the schemes presented before the
Court, deserves any consideration, for the reasons given by me
above. Each of the applications not disposed of earlier is
dismissed. Any stay order on the winding up is vacated. I direct
the Official Liquidator to proceed with the winding up of the
Company with the greatest despatch, so that it is complete by
31st December, 2015 positively. Security service will continue to
be ensured and its expenses continue to be borne by Ashray to
be reimbursed by the Official Liquidator, treating the same as
expenses of winding up, on a priority basis as and when funds
are available. No order as to costs. Urgent certified photocopy of this Judgment and order, if
applied for, be supplied to the parties upon compliance with all
requisite formalities. (I. P. Mukerji, J.)

Later

 Stay of operation of this judgement and order is prayed for
by Mr. Rudrajit Sarkar, learned Advocate. Considering the fact
that the winding up process has not even commenced and the
winding up process takes a lot of time, there is no need for stay
of the winding up. Such prayer is refused. (I. P. Mukerji, J.)