APPEARANCE: 2. The brief facts of the case are as follows: 3. That the respondent, M/s.Air Logix Solutions is the licensed courier

vides registration No.DEL/POL/COUR/22/2005 issued by the Ministry of

Finance dated 27.6.2008. The respondent was required to strictly adhere to

the provisions laid in the Notification No.07/98-Customs (NT) dated 2 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019

9.11.1998. On 23.04.2018, an information was received that the respondent

was using one Aadhar No.233962343459 repeatedly with different Bills of

Entry (BOE) for import of parcels through courier and it was found to have

used 22433 times during the period from November 2017 to March 2018.

Pursuant to said information, search was conducted at the premises of the

respondent, no documents pertaining to KYCs (Know Your Customers) and

POD (proof of delivery) were found. Proceedings were recorded under

panchnama dated 23.4.2018. Statements of various concerned including G-

Card Holder of the respondent, Shri Tikaram, of Shri Atish Mohanty, partner

of respondent, of Shri A.Murugan, proprietor of Femtosoft Technologies and

of Project Manager of M/s.Wipro Ltd., Shri Vikash Kaushik were recorded.

The respondent vide letter dated 11.6.2018 submitted some documents

including PODs alongwith Bills of Entry and KYC document of the consignees.

It was found that aforementioned Aadhar number was used as KYC for

several BOE's for different consignees. It was also found that GSTN No.

given in BOEs i.e. Aadhar No.233962343459 did not match with the copy of

KYC document attached with the respective BOE. 4. Verification of genuineness of POD was also conducted by the

jurisdictional Commissinerate and the PODs were found forged. Most of the

addresses were fictitious and the consignments were found bogus. The

verification report clearly revealed that authorized courier/ respondent has

failed to exercise due diligence and to comply with the conditions of

provisions of Regulation of Courier Imports and Exports (Electronic

Declaration and Processing) Regulations, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as

"CIER,2010"). Resultantly the show cause notice bearing

No.04/MK/Policy/2019 dated 12.03.2019 was served upon the appellant

proposing revocation of their courier registration for contravention of 3 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019

provisions of Regulation 12 (1) (iv), 12 (1) (v) and 12 (1) (x) of Courier

Imports and Exports (Electronic Declaration and Processing) Regulations,

2010 (hereinafter referred to as "CIER,2010") for forfeiture of security

deposit and imposition of penalty was also proposed. The said proposal was

not accepted except that the penalty of Rs.50,000/- was imposed upon the

respondent vide Order-in-Original No.92/MK/Policy/2019 dated 2.9.2019.

The said order has been reviewed vide aforesaid order directing the

appellant-department to file appeal before this Tribunal. Resultantly, the

present appeal has been filed by the department. 5. Heard Shri Rajesh Singh, ld. Counsel for the respondent-assessee ad

Shri Shri R.P.Singh, Authorised Representative for the Respondent. 6. It is submitted on behalf of learned DR that the documents recovered

during investigation clearly revealed that the respondent-assessee had used

one aadhar No.233962343459 repeatedly as many as 22433 times during

the period from November 2017 to March 2018 for importing parcel through

courier for different fictitious consignee's name and address. The same

aadhar number was mentioned in all the bills of entry. That the KYC details

filed in the Bills of entry were not same and were also found fake. Ld.DR

mentioned that though respondent -assessee has taken defence that it was

software mistake and it was absolutely unintentional but it is very much

apparent on record that the respondent-assessee was well aware for using

same aadhar number on all BOE's. The software developer has categorically

stated they used fields GSTIN Type" and "GSTIN Number" as per instruction

of the company. It is also apparent admission of the G-Card holder of the

respondent that KYC's of the consignee were not properly maintained in the

company office. It is also impressed upon that the original adjudicating 4 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019

authority has miserably failed to take into consideration clear admission and

other cogent evidence on record which have sufficiently proved the alleged

violation of provisions of CIER Regulations, 2010. The order under challenge

is accordingly prayed to be set aside and appeal is prayed to be allowed in

terms of observations made in the impugned review order. 7. While rebutting these submissions, ld.Counsel for the respondent-

assessee has submitted that Rule 12 (iv) of Regulation of CIER, 2010 has not

been violated by the respondent as there was sufficient verification done

about antecedents and identity with respect to five consignments. The

respondent has exercised due diligence to ascertain the correctness of

information in regard to alleged five consignments. The respondent also

submits that all subject consignments were non commercial in nature. These

were basically gift items imported from middle-east meant for dependent

members of family of the respective consignor. Therefore, question of any

loss of customs duty, does not arise. The allegations that KYC did not tally

with the names mentioned in the Bills of Entry are vehemently denied by

the respondent submitting that KYC as were received from sender on email,

were filed for clearance. The Aadhar card was also submitted from Govt.

portal. The department also verified the Aadhar (KYC) but no objection was

ever earlier raised. These facts are clear enough to show that the proper

due diligence was done by the respondent and that there is no violation of

any provisions of CIER Regulations, 2010. 8. Ld. Counsel has also relied upon the decision of the Tribunal in the

case of FLE Fast Line Express Pvt.Ltd. vs. CC-2021 (378) ELT 361

(Tri.-Del.) to impress upon that when there is no evidence that courier was

aware of real content of consignment, violation of Regulation of CIER, 2010 5 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019

cannot be alleged against him. Otherwise also there is no provision under

Regulation of CIER, 2010 requiring courier to physically verify the

particulars. The decision in the case of Him Logistics Pvt.Ltd.-2017

(348) ELT 625 (Del.) is also relied upon. 9. With these submissions, ld. Counsel for the respondent has prayed

for appeal to be dismissed and Order-in-Original dated 2.9.2019 is prayed to

be upheld. 10. Having heard rival contentions of both the parties and after perusing

entire records of the impugned appeal, we observe and hold as follows: 11. There is no denial of the respondent to the fact that same GSTIN

number/Aadhar No.233962343459 has repeatedly been used for several

Bills of entry filed during the period of November, 2017 to March, 2018.

There is also no denial to the fact that consignees were different for these

Bills of Entry and even consignors were different. The said admission has

also been observed by the original adjudicating authority however the

authority has held it to just be lack of due diligence on the part of

respondent towards observing obligations of authorized courier. The

adjudicating authority did not revoke courier's registration nor forfeited the

amount of security, except that the penalty of Rs.50,000/- has been imposed

on the respondent. The department has filed impugned appeal being

aggrieved of the fact that verification report of Cochin Commissionerate

(Preventive) has clearly concluded that the addresses for five consignments

were bogus/fictitious but the report has been ignored by the adjudicating

authority. The report sufficiently reveals that the obligations under impugned

Regulation have been so violated by the respondent that it amounts to 6 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019

intentional misconduct. Imposition of penalty is therefore alleged to be

highly disproportionate to the fraudulent act committed by the respondent. 12. From the admissions as observed above, in our opinion, it also

becomes apparent fact that the respondent has failed to verify the

correctness of IEC code and even identity of its clients. The respondent was

aware of the use of same Aadhaar Number for all BOEs still the Authorized

Courier nor to verify the said Aadhaar Number or did not verify the

antecedent, correctness of Import Export Code (IEC) number, identity of its

client. Further, the respondent during the time of uploading of the Bill of

Entry failed to take note that the data entered was not correct. The

respondent did not inform the Custom Department that KYC details filed in

the Bill of Entry was not the same which was received via email in respect of

any given import. G.card holder of respondent, Shri Tikaram has also

admitted in his statement dated 23.04.2018 that KYCs of the consignee were

not properly maintained in the company office. Investigation also revealed

that the GSTIN given in the BOEs i.e. the Aadhaar No.233962343459 did not

match with the copy of the KYC document attached with the BOEs filed by

the respondent. The respondent did not even bother to inform the said

mistake to the Customs department, despite that KYC details filed by him in

the Bills of Entry was not the same as was reflected in those Bills of Entry.

Accordingly, we hold that respondent has contravened the provisions of

Regulation 12(1) (v) of CIER.2010. 13. We also observe that to ascertain as to whether the imported goods

indeed reached the declared importers, a verification of genuineness of the

PODs (Proof of Deliveries), submitted by the authorized courier and KYC was

carried out by the Commissioner of Customs, ACC (Export), New Delhi 7 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019

through the jurisdictional Commissionerate(s). The Joint Commissioner,

Commissioner of Customs (Prev.), Cochin vide letter C.No.VIII/26/21/2018

CCP(Prev.)4807/18 report dated 28.11.2018 provided the verification report

in respect of 19 addresses out of 24 addresses pertaining to M/s. Air Logix

Solutions and other authorized courier companies. Failure of delivery of the

consignment to the consignee or denial of receipt of the consignment by the

consignee that the addresses were found bogus during verification of

genuineness of the PODs, proves that the imported goods were never

destined to the consignees named in the BOEs and have been intentionally

diverted. It is known to reasonable prudence that such diversion was not

possible without indulgence of the authorized courier, the respondent. Thus,

we hold that the respondent was knowingly involved in the diversion of

imported goods and he intentionally and knowingly misused the ID's of

consignees in whose name the goods were shown imported, consignees

being the relatives of NRI consignees. The goods otherwise meant for some

one else. 14. We further observe from the record that the respondent has taken plea

that the mistake of same Aadhaar No. to have been uploaded for several

BOEs to be the consignee's software mistake. But is apparent from the

statement of Shri A.Murugan, Proprietor of Femtosoft Technologies and Shri

Vikas Kaushik, Project Manager of M/s.Wiprto Limited, who acknowledged

developing a software for Courier Company (including the present

respondent) to convert Excel input into XML file that can be used for bulk

uploading of data to ECCS server for filing of Courier Bills of Entry. Further

Mr.Murugan explained that if any courier company wanted to edit any

information in XML File generated by the software, the right has been given 8 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019

to the courier company who before uploading the same to ECCS Server,

company could check any data/information in XML File and if it is desired it

can change the data or undo any error that may be detected. Shri

A.Murugan categorical reported that the fields "GSTIN Type" GSTIN Number" 15. Respondent himself had provided proof of deliveries which got verified

by the Cochin Commissionerate. The Verification report revealed as follows: KYC of 02 consignments
 could not be verified
 due to incomplete
 address. Customs Appeal No.52946/2019 16. The said report sufficiently established the fact that the respondent has

imported consignments in the name of consignees who were not even aware

of the fact that their identity has been misused by the respondent i.e. courier

company for import purpose. The report is held cogent evidence to show

that authorized courier has failed to verify the correctness of IEC code and

even identity of its clients. As observed above, it was done intentionally by

the respondent, hence is wrongly held to be the mere act of negligence. 17. Regulations 12(1) (iv) and 12 (x) of CIER,2010 are extracted below:- 18. Regulation 12(1)(iv) requires an authorised courier to verify

 the antecedents, correctness of IEC number, identity of his client and

 the functioning of his client in the declared address by using reliable,

 independent, authentic documents, date or information. In the

 normal course, this would be easy for any courier because it has to

 finally deliver the goods by itself at the declared address of the

 consignee after clearance from the customs. In this case, instead, the

 appellant has facilitated imports and attempted to obtain clearance

 of the goods in the name of many consignees whose IEC did not 10 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019

 match with the respective KYC. Thus, we hold that the appellant has

 violated Regulation 12(1)(iv) of CIER, 2010. 19. Regulation 12(1) (v) requires the couriers to exercise due

 diligence to ascertain the correctness and completeness of any

 information which he submits to the proper officer with reference to

 any work related to the clearance of imported goods or of export

 goods. In this case, the appellant has intentionally filed documents

 (BOEs) to clear the goods by mis-declaring the names of the

 consignees and consignors and by knowingly using same GSTIN for all

 BOEs meant for different consignees, without informing the same to

 the proper officer. Respondent has knowingly violated this Regulation

 as well. 20. Regulation 12(1)(x) requires authorised courier to abide by all

 the provisions of the Act and the rules, regulations and notifications

 and orders issued thereunder. In this case the appellant has actively

 violated the provisions of the act and rules byknowingly filing the bills

 of entry in the name of wrong consignees by using wrong KYCs. 21. The Regulations also provide that the Principal Commissioner

 of Customs or Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, may

 revoke the registration of an authorised courier and also pass an

 order for forfeiture of security on any of the following grounds: 22. In view of above discussions, we also find that there is sufficient

 evidence on record to hold that the above said Regulations have been

 violated by the respondent. The violation invite revocation of courier

 licence as per Regulation 11 discussed above. But the original

 adjudicating authority despite acknowledging the alleged violations has

 merely imposed penalty. Since the alleged act is proved to be intentional

 act of the respondent, we hold that mere imposition of penalty of

 Rs.50,000/- (fifty thousand) is disproportionate punishment. Hence, we

 accept the prayer made by the appellant-department for revocation of

 courier registration of the respondent for committing intentional fraud

 while importing several goods in the name of those being gifts from Non

 Resident Indian (NRI) to their family member residing in India, which

 otherwise were not imported by them nor were meant for them. 23. As a result of entire above discussion, the findings under

 challenge are hereby set aside and the appeal of Department is hereby

 allowed. Consequently the courier licence of the respondent is hereby

 revoked. Early hearing application is also disposed of. (Order pronounced in open court on 29.11.2023)

 (DR.RACHNA GUPTA)
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)

 (HEMAMBIKA R PRIYA)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
mk 12 Customs Appeal No.52946/2019