SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Has anyone faced this new, "school admission fraud"?
DATE: 2022-05-02
SCORE: 29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ugn8g5/has_anyone_faced_this_new_school_admission_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently, my mum (who is the principal of a Govt aided primary school) got a call from a lady, claiming that she had migrated from MP/Rajasthan (my mum doesn't remember exactly). She told my mum, "She has searched nearby schools and found out that your school is the best in the area according to the rating and I want my children to get admitted in your school..so please tell me any admission fees if required."

To give you guys context, the school name contains "primary" in it. It's a really small school, and the folks that study there are less fortunate and for the admission process they reach the school offline as most of them never own a smart phone and if they do, they don't know how to use it. Not only that, nothing about the school is present on the Google maps. Nor any rating or nor any phone number. But yes, you can find the phone number of the principal from the govt website.

So she told my mum, "That if that school is till tenth"? (A redflag I think, as explained earlier that the word "Primary" is still in the school name and she pronounced the exact name. 

Also, she said, "My husband wants to know if you can accommodate all the fees and will it be up to 5k per year"?

My mother was like, "Please bring your child to the school we have to test him and the admission fees are waived off as it's a govt aided school."

The lady told my mum, "Please tell me the fees, else we'll take out business elsewhere."

My mother replied, "Please proceed with what you want to do, there are no fees as per Govt guidelines."

And she hung up.

Please let me know if someone has faced this fraud and what do these people do?
And I'm down to verify the number of fraudsters if you believe that you have received the same phone call? 

Also, according to Truecaller, they have called 54,000 times in the last 2 months and it's named as "School Fraud".

Thanks and stay safe.