Bangalore. Present for the Appellant : Shri Keyur Shah, Advocate 
Present for the Respondent : Shri D. P. Nagendra Kumar, Jt.CDR

CORAM : Honble Shri M. V. Ravindran, Member (Judicial)
 Honble Shri P. Karthikeyan, Member (Technical) 

ORDER No..Dated .. PER : P. KARTHIKEYAN
This appeal filed by M/s Flextronics Technologies (I) Pvt. Ltd. seeks to vacate penalty of Rs. 6,00,000/- imposed on them under Rule 13 of Cenvat Credit Rules, 2002 (CCR) read with Section 11AC of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (the Act) and applicable interest demanded from them under Rule 12 of the CCR read with Section 11AB of the Act on amounts of Cenvat Credit found to have been availed by them irregularly during the years 2002-03 and 2003-04. The facts of the case are that during audit of records of the assessee, the following discrepancies/irregularities were noticed :- The assessee paid/reversed credit of Rs. 6,05,627.00 availed in respect of Sl. No. (a) to (f) above. The assessee disputed its liability to pay interest on the above amounts and the departments stand that they were not entitled to capital goods credit on Aluminum tables. 2.	After due process of law, the Commissioner confirmed the demands of irregular Cenvat credit mentioned at Sl. No. (a) to (f) and (g) above. The assessee had already reversed the relevant credit and the same was appropriated in the impugned order. These were respectively Rs. 6,05,627/- and Rs. 1,50,31,300/-. The Commissioner found that Aluminium tables received by the appellants had been wrongly classified under Chapter heading 8537. The same was correctly classified under Chapter heading 9403 as other furniture. The goods falling under heading 9403 were not covered under definition of capital goods in CCR. She disallowed the credit of Rs. 1,52,440/- relatable to Aluminium tables received by the appellants. As regards interest liability, the Commissioner held that this liability arose due to operation of law under Rule 12 of the CCR read with Section 11AB of the Act. The appellants had taken huge amounts of Cenvat credit not due to them intentionally and reversed the same on being pointed out by the audit party in April 2004. Accordingly she imposed a penalty of Rs. 6,00,000/- on the appellants under Rule 13 of the CCR read with Section 11AC of the Act. In the appeal filed before the Tribunal the assessee has challenged the impugned order to the extent it imposed penalty of Rs. 6,00,000/- on it and confirmed the demand of interest for late reversal of irregular Cenvat credit availed. The appeal also seeks to vacate denial of Cenvat credit of Rs. 1,52,440/- relatable to Aluminium tables and demand of the same. 3.	As regards the denial of credit on Aluminium tables, the appellants have contended that the Central Excise authorities having jurisdiction over the assessee which received capital goods/inputs were not competent to reclassify the goods originating from a manufacturer subject to jurisdiction of different Central Excise officers who had classified the same. In support of this submission, the appellants relied on the following case laws :- 4.	As regards the penalty of Rs. 6,00,000/- imposed on them, the appellants have contested their liability to penalty imposed under Rule 13 of the CCR read with Section 11AC of the Act on the ground that these provisions applied only in a case where the Cenvat credit is taken or utilized wrongly on account of fraud, willful mis-statement, collusion or suppression of facts or contravention of any of the provisions of the act or the rules made thereunder with intention to evade payment of duty. In the instant case, the appellants had no intention to evade payment of duty. The appellant was a major assessee having institutionalized regular internal audit/check to ensure that it availed Cenvat credit in accordance with law. Despite such institutional safeguards, inadvertent errors take place. As per the impugned order, the assessee had suo moto identified that it had wrongly availed credit of Rs. 1,50,31,300/- on inputs meant for the manufacture of non-dutiable products in the wake of their exemption under Notification No. 55/2003-CE dated 24.6.2003 and had reversed the same suo motu. This fact was acknowledged in the impugned order. Irregularities involving credit of Rs. 6,05,627/- were discovered during the internal audit of the records. These were errors clearly apparent from the records and they had not tried to suppress the same. These were found out on inspection by internal audit party and on account of cooperation extended by the assessee. The credit involved had not been taken by any mis-statement or suppression of facts or fraud or willful mis-statement, collusion or contravention of any of the provisions of the act or the rules made thereunder with intention to evade payment of duty. Therefore, the penalty envisaged under Rule 13 of the CCR read with Section 11AC of the Act was not imposable on them. They relied on the following case laws among others : 5.	They had reversed the impugned credit before issue of show cause notice. In the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Commissioner Vs. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. [2004 (163)ELT A53 (S.C.)] the Apex Court had upheld the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Rashtriya spat Nigam Ltd. Vs. CCE, Visakhapatnam [2003 (161) ELT 285 (Tri.-Bang.)] where the Tribunal had vacated the penalty imposed on the appellants considering the fact that it had deposited the duty due to the department prior to issue of show cause notice. 5.1 	During the material period, all through, the appellants had sufficient Cenvat credit in their account. Therefore, there could not have been any intention in taking undue credit as found in the impugned order. 6.	The assessee challenged the demand of interest on the ground that the impugned credit had not been utilized by them; there was sufficient balance in their Cenvat credit account all along. In support of the claim that in the circumstances no interest is leviable on them, they relied on the following judicial authorities :- 7.	The show cause notice is barred by limitation as the same was issued beyond one year from the relevant date. The larger period of five years could be invoked validly only in cases where fraud, willful mis-statement, collusion or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the provisions of the act or the rules made thereunder with intention to evade payment of duty existed. This situation was absent in the instant case. The material period is Financial Year 2002-03 and the show cause notice was issued on March 3, 2006. 8.	During hearing, ld. Counsel for the appellants submitted a copy of the judgment of the Honble High Court of Punjab & Harayana in the case of Ind-Swift Laboratories Ltd. Vs. Union of India [204 ELT 328]. He submitted that their Lordships of the High Court of Punjab & Harayana held that liability of interest on Cenvat credit taken wrongly did not arise till the same was utilized. 9.	Ld. Jt. CDR reiterated the reasoning and the findings in the impugned order. 10. We have carefully considered the case records and the rival submissions. The three issues arising for our consideration are discussed below : 11. Reliance of respondents on Rule 14 of the Credit Rules that interest under Section 11AB of the Act is payable even if CENVAT credit has been taken. In our view, said clause has to be read down to mean that where CENVAT credit has been taken and utilized wrongly, interest should be payable on the Cenvat credit taken and utilized wrongly. Interest cannot be claimed simply for the reason that the CENVAT credit has been wrongly taken as such availment by itself does not create any liability of payment of excise duty. On a cojoint reading of Section 11AB of the Act and that of Rules 3 and 4 of the Credit Rules, we hold that interest cannot be claimed from the date of wrong availment of CENVAT credit. The interest shall be payable from the date CENVAT credit is wrongly utilized

We find that the appellants had not utilized the Cenvat credit taken by it erroneously. When the Cenvat credit taken remained an entry in their account, the assessee did not incur any liability on account of such credit. Interest is compensatory in character and is imposed on an assessee when payment of any tax due and payable is withheld. The Honble High Court held that interest shall be payable from the date Cenvat credit is wrongly utilized. In the light of the above judicial authority, we vacate the demand of interest confirmed in the impugned order. (iii) The next issue is whether the penalty of Rs. 6,00,000/- imposed under Rule 13 of the CCR read with Section 11AC of the Act is sustainable. We note that the relevant Rule 13 of the CCR reads as follows :- 12.	In the result, the impugned order is set aside and the appeal allowed.