SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: (Discussion) As a Indian, and will vote in 2019, I'm really, really confused because all these parties are just epitome of fakeness!!!
DATE: 2018-03-15
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/84oahp/discussion_as_a_indian_and_will_vote_in_2019_im/

--- POST TEXT ---

Why do we don't even have a single party which we can trust blindly to vote in the most populated country in world. Democracy too!!!

Don't you think this is depressing? How are we gonna live? If this dirty politics continues where the rich gets everything and all the poor / middle class gets is just fake promises, our future is in danger. 

Every single party plays the religion card. I live in Maharashtra (Pune) and the politics here is based on sole purpose of religions. Everyone plays the religion card. In front of media they tell that religion is cancer but surprising how everyone has their playing roots!

Coming to the point, I'm just gonna lay out points of specific parties and tell you why I'm not interested in giving vote to them. If you belong to any party / are a supporter i.e bhakt, congressi,shivsainik, mansainik,rashtravadi, etc and I offend you, i am really sorry for that!

So for 2019, why I won't vote for 

Congress: 60 years and not that work done, so many scams. Thousands of crores. You cannot trust them. And plus they forcing Gandhi dynasty on it. Always making Rahul the face of congress. Not that I don't like him or anything, but he is not in that position. He doesn't have the pro-politician knowledge in him. Controlling behaviour of Sonia Gandhi. Making a super-brilliant of a Manmohan look like a robotic tool is just embarrassing.

BJP : You all know. I'll leave this one

Shivsena : Can also name the party as goons sena. Not even one of their minister is capable of handling a Whatsapp group, let alone politics. Party was prime when Bala saheb handled, i think. But now, party leader, his son is total gone case.

MNS : Same as shivsena but here we have a party leader who wants to win elections, not by working for people, but entertaining them with his "funny" impressions of other people. Similar tool. Didn't do anything in Nashik when his party got elected.

Rashtravadi Congress : This party's sole purpose is to play with religion politics. It has so many dirtiest politicians you can make separate House Of Cards for them.

These are the points i can give. If there are any suggestions, you are welcome. And again, if I've offended you, 

I'm Sorry!!!