TikTok is set to place age restrictions on the use of specific beauty filters over rising global concerns of mental health harm caused by social media among teenagers.

The features which will be rolled out in the coming weeks, include restricting the use of specific appearance filters and effects for teenagers under 18. This aims to tackle filters like ‘Bold Glamour,’ which transform a user’s appearance by emphasizing conventionally attractive features such as a thinner nose and fuller lips, The Guardian reported . However, this restriction won’t apply to “obvious and funny” filters like the animal ear effects. The platform also claimed it would provide a more detailed description of how filters alter users’ appearances.

TikTok introduced these changes following a report by the non-profit organisation Internet Matters, which concluded that beautifying filters display “perfected images” as the norm while sidelining authentic representation.

“I tested an effect that would make my lips look bigger. From never having had anything against my lips before, I can no longer look at them without feeling that they are far too small and should look more like the effect. In this way, filters can also give me body complexes and anxiety”, a 17-year-old from Sweden explained during the Internet Matters’ study . Several young individuals and TikTokers have also revealed how filters on the platform have raised similar concerns.

In October 2024, the Attorneys General of 14 US states filed a lawsuit against TikTok for damaging mental health and promoting body image issues among teenagers. The lawsuit argued that despite being aware of the detrimental effects of beauty filters like body dysmorphia, eating disorders, etc, TikTok developers ignored the same to “maximise profits”.

TikTok also announced the possibility of employing machine learning technology to detect accounts of users cheating its age restrictions and simultaneously block them from the platform. This feature aligns with the platform’s age gate for users under 13 introduced in 2019. Many other platforms are also following suit with age restrictions.

Last week, gaming platform Roblox announced plans to block users under 13 from sending messages to players outside of the game and mandated parented permission for posting in-game DMs. Additionally, it restricted access of users under nine to content featuring more violence, crude humour, and “realistic blood”. These changes followed multiple criticisms of the platform that termed it a “pedophile hellscape”.

In September 2024, Meta introduced ‘Teen Accounts’ for Instagram with built-in protections like default private accounts, parental controls, and anti-bullying features among others. This initiative came as a response to severe allegations against the tech giant of contributing to anxiety and poor mental health among teenagers.

Earlier this month, Australia proposed a legislation banning social media for teenagers, with its Prime Minister initially citing “ social harm ” caused by such platforms to young users. Within this bill, the onus to take necessary actions to prevent minor users from accessing the platform lies on social media companies. Companies like Meta, Google, Snap Inc., and TikTok have challenged Australia’s impending law. Joining the bandwagon, LinkedIn recently wrote to the Australian Senate Committee about its platform lacking content “interesting and appealing to minors”, thereby being exempt from the proposed ban, the BBC reported . Earlier this week, the Australian House of Representatives passed the bill, taking the ban a step closer to becoming a law.

Last week, UK’s Technology Secretary Kyle Peter also announced that the government would be open to an Australian-style ban on social media for users under 16 years. Simultaneously, he launched a feasibility study investigating the impact of social media on children.

Additionally, countries like France, USA, China, Brazil, and India have also placed social media restrictions on teenagers in the past.

Speaking at a MediaNama event last year, the TechBridge’s Ekta Jafri explained that children nowadays can bypass a majority of the norms instituted to protect them online. Research on the topic also concurs with the idea of age limit not being the most impactful mechanism for the same, The Business Standard reported . To explain, strict age limits on social media fail to account for individual differences in adolescents’ maturity levels. Furthermore, enforcing age verification and completely blocking social media access may also hurt digital communities of marginalised groups and raise multiple privacy concerns.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event