SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Comments on family in law plz
DATE: 2023-09-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16phxg3/comments_on_family_in_law_plz/

--- POST TEXT ---

Im Eastern European and my husband is South Indian, we are married for a decade and no kids unfortunately due to health issues. Living in western country.

So little pre history: my husband is elder brother, he completely provided his family before our wedding: bought apartment for his parents, paid college fees for his siblings, paid dowry + wedding expenses for his sister “love marriage”, lots of gifts here and there. 

Sister in law: after settling in western country didn’t attend our wedding in India, yet came a year later for younger brother wedding; when we visited her in the western country (they live on 2 IT incomes), didn’t invite to eat out, didn’t take us much anywhere, didn’t cook anything special for her brother (my husband) - treated like we are some annoying relatives which came to eat them off- it was pretty offensive; money changed her or what but even husband said she was different; we went out everywhere by ourselves alone and they didn’t join us. We left on bad terms as they didn’t want us to go out at all.

Mother in law: constantly pokes about baby, though she knows our issue. Last time was complaining to random pregnant neighbour lady that we don’t have kids. That hurt like a lot. Asked my husband to buy her a bigger house (we could not at the moment), still telling she wants that bigger house. We take care of her, buy her everything, take her out- not like we abandoned her.

They finally visited us (they refused to come for a decade because we have no baby) and mother in law is very negative. She comments me every time I bring some groceries that I buy unnecessary items (I just buy chicken fish prawns, veggies, fruits - no alcohol or stupid things). I work by the way and buy stuff from my money. She comments when we go out on EVERYTHING in a negative way and says she counts days to go home. I haven’t heard a good word from her.

Once when I watched tv in the living room (literally once in 2 months) she told my husband to set tv for me in the bedroom so that I will watch it there lol

The fun part is when I stopped coming to living room she complains that I don’t sit with them!!

She washed few items which I specifically asked not to wash in the washing machine and spoiled them, I’m hiding my laundry now.

I was learning her language since she doesn’t speak English and I know that people can understand me, my father in law understands me, my co sister does etc - yet whenever I speak to her she behaves like what rubbish I’m saying and sometimes mimicking me with disgust on her face :( I stopped talking much to her due to this - only when necessary. When she needs to find some stuff and I’m helping she understands me though!

We went to a trip and there was no Indian restaurant so we took everyone to M’s - they eat chicken. So she asked her to bring few items which she selected herself and then opened did a bite and threw it on the table saying she will not eat this. She eats sometimes fast food I know for sure. I’m so close to lose my shit honestly! 

I told all that to husband and he said she is just uneducated, to be a bigger person. But is it really the issue or she is just.. mentally ill?

She has other grandchildren.

She treats daughter better cz she is bit richer at the moment I guess, though daughter treats her like a servant, never takes anywhere, never buys her anything. 

She doesn’t treat her son, my husband very nice too. She would cook too spicy though even he would ask her to do less spicy and he struggles- she doesn’t give damn. We cook for ourselves often and we are fine - but it’s mother no?

Their whole family relationships with other relatives are pretty bad too. It’s very much about money and amount of properties. She gossips badly about her another daughter in law - Indian girl who has kids, brought dowry, doesn’t eat out etc.

What hurts most she is super nice to some distant friends and relatives. She is like sunshine with them. Then she comes home - tadaa!

Is this kind of relationship typical? Is family a scam? Everybody hating each other?

I was raised by a single mother so all that stuff with mother in law was unknown to me, I heard lots of stories but I thought those ladies didn’t show respect. Haha - even when you show it nothing changes. 

She agreed for our marriage initially btw.

Shall I just give up on her and sister in law, do just bare minimum and that’s it?