and Mr. Sumeet Gadodia, learned counsel appearing for the ACB. 2. The petitioner is seeking regular bail in connection with Hazaribagh

 ACB P.S. Case No.09 of 2025, registered for the offence under Sections 409,

 467, 468 (indicated as 469 in impugned order), 471, 420, 120B of the Indian

 Penal Code Section 13(2) and 13(1)(c) and (d) of the Prevention of Corruption

 Act, 1988 , pending in the Court of the learned Additional Sessions Judge-II

 cum Special Judge, Vigilance (A.C.B.) Hazaribag. 3. Mr. Indrajit Sinha, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submits

 that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case however

 he has neither any dishonest intention nor any role in the alleged offence. He

 further submits that the petitioner has been implicated only because he was

 Power of Attorney holder of the land in question, which has been sold to

 different persons. He then submits that by the registered deed dated

 25.02.1941, Seth Ganpat Rai Sarogi dedicated the land in question -1- B.A. No. 10414 of 2025 ( 2026:JHHC:224 )

admeasuring 2.75 acres in favour of deity Sri Sri Mahabir Ji and created a

scheme of management through appointed Sewayat. He next submits that by

a registered deed dated 29.10.1951, the settlor Sri Ganpat Rai Sarogi tried to

revoke and annul the earlier deed of dedication dated 25.02.1941, however,

the authority has not accepted the same. He submits that pursuant to that,

the land was leased out and subsequently the Sewayats have filed the

renewal petitions, which have been allowed and the Sewayats have given

Power of Attorney to the petitioner and, thereafter, the petitioner along with

Sudhir Kumar Singh has transferred the land. He also submits that the

petitioner is in custody since 05.10.2025 and the charge-sheet has been

submitted on 24.12.2025. He further submits that the petitioner was not

taken for interrogation by the ACB. He also submits that the allegations are

of the year 2009-10 and the case has been registered in the year 2025.

According to him, there is no money trail so far as the petitioner is concerned.

He then submits that the Government has granted permission and, thereafter,

the land has been sold by the petitioner. He next submits that one of the co-

accused Binod Chandra Jha, who was the Khas Mahal Officer at relevant time,

has been granted regular bail by this Court. On these grounds, he submits

that in view of the fact that the petitioner is only Power of Attorney holder

and he is in custody and charge-sheet has been submitted, regular bail may

kindly be allowed to the petitioner. 4. On the other hand, Mr. Sumeet Gadodia, learned counsel appearing for

the ACB vehemently opposed the prayer and submits that the petitioner being

the Power of Attorney holder, has manipulated all the things and has assured

the purchasers that he is having high connection with the officers including -2- B.A. No. 10414 of 2025 ( 2026:JHHC:224 )

with the then Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribag and he will facilitate

everything for transfer of the land in question. He further submits that these

facts are supported by the witnesses whose statements have come in the

case diary under Section 180 of the Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023.

He then submits that one witness, namely Sri Manish Narayan has stated that

the land has been sold to 23 persons and this petitioner along with Sudhir

Kumar Singh has approached Manish Narayan and stated that he will facilitate

everything as he is having high connection including the then Deputy

Commissioner, Hazaribag. He next submits that same facts have also been

deposed by the witnesses, namely, Smt. Priti Prasad and Smt. Nandrani Sinha

and their statements are part of the case diary. He also submits that the

investigating officer issued notices to the successor-in-interest and Sewayats,

namely, Basanti Kumari Sethi, Raj Kumar Sethi, Indrajit Sethi and Rajesh

Kumar Sethi, who are accused in the present case. He submits that the said

notices were issued under Section 35(3) of the Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha

Sanhita, 2023 for participating in the investigation, but those persons have

not participated in investigation. He further submits that in the investigation,

it has been revealed that the said persons have given incorrect address of

their residence i.e. at Kolkata and at present they are not traceable. He then

submits that Sri Rajesh Sethi and Sri Indrajit Sethi have filed anticipatory bail

petitions before the learned Special Judge, ACB, Hazaribag, which were

rejected by the learned Court and in course of investigation, it has transpired

that the address mentioned in those anticipatory bail petitions are incorrect.

He next submits that so far as other two Sewayats, namely, Basanti Kumari

Sethi and Uma Sethi are concerned, Uma Sethi has filed anticipatory bail -3- B.A. No. 10414 of 2025 ( 2026:JHHC:224 )

petition before the learned trial court giving incorrect address in the said

petition also and even the anticipatory bail petition filed by the aforesaid

Sewayats have been rejected by the learned trial court. He submits that

during investigation it has transpired that Basanti Kumari Sethi has passed

away 10 years back and the said fact is not confirmed because of non-

cooperation of other co-accused. He also submits that this petitioner is not

cooperating in revealing the correct address of two Sewayats. By way of

inviting attention of the Court to paragraph 35 of the counter-affidavit filed

by the ACB, he submits that in course of investigation, it has been revealed

that approximately 5000 acres of land in the district of Hazaribag have been

illegally transacted and the said lands in fact were belonging to and/or Forest

land, Gair Majaruwa Aam, Sarkari Khas Mahal, Kaiser-e-hind, Lakheraj, Trust

lands etc. He next submits that the entire land scams were done during the

tenure of the co-accused Vinay Kumar Choubey, then Deputy Commissioner,

Hazaribag in conspiracy with other persons including the petitioner and these

facts have come in paras 104 and 107 in case diary no.18. He also submits

that the prayer for regular bail of Vinay Kumar Choubey has been rejected by

this Court vide order dated 06.01.2026 in B.A. No.9602 of 2025. On these

grounds, he submits that the prayer for regular bail of the petitioner may

kindly be rejected. 5. In view of the above submissions of the learned counsel for the parties

and looking to the contents of the documents, which have been brought on

record and the documents which have been produced in course of argument

by the learned counsel appearing for the ACB, it transpires that one Sri Seth

Ganpat Rai Sarogi by a registered deed dated 25.02.1941 dedicated the land -4- B.A. No. 10414 of 2025 ( 2026:JHHC:224 )

in question admeasuring 2.75 acres in favour of deity Sri Sri Mahavir Ji. Later

on, Sri Seth Ganpat Rai has tried to cancel the said donation by the deed of

the year 1951, however, that was not accepted by the authority and the

Commissioner of North Chhotanagpur Division, Hazaribag vide order dated

12.12.1988 has ordered for renewal of the said deed in the name of deity

only. 6. Hira Lal Sethi and Panna Lal Sethi are sons of Seth Ganpat Rai Sarogi

and they have tried to transfer the land to third person, which was rejected

by the Commissioner of North Chotanagpur Division, Hazaribag vide order

dated 01.07.2000 and the said order was challenged by Basanti Kumari Sethi,

Raj Kumar Sethi, Indrajit Sethi and Rajesh Kumar Sethi by filing C.W.J.C.

No.4200 of 2000 and the High Court vide order dated 26.07.2005 has been

pleased to reject the said writ petition holding that the successor-in-interest

or any person who took the charge of Sewayat, had no right to transfer the

land in question in favour of any other person and, accordingly, it has been

held that the decision of Commissioner of North Chotanagpur Division

refusing the grant of permission for transfer of leasehold land is correct. It

transpires that even the order of the High Court has been ignored and the

petitioner being the Power of Attorney holder has sold the land in question. 7. Three of the witnesses, namely, Sri Manish Narayan, Smt. Priti Prasad

and Smt. Nandrani Sinha, whose statements have been recorded under

Section 180 of the Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, which have been

produced by the learned counsel appearing for the ACB and they have

deposed that the petitioner along with Sudhir Kumar Singh approached the

purchasers to sell the land and the petitioner has also stated that he will -5- B.A. No. 10414 of 2025 ( 2026:JHHC:224 )

facilitate everything as he is having high connection and good relationship

with the officers including the then Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribag. The

witnesses have also stated that the petitioner along with Sudhir Kumar Singh

were found visiting the office of the then Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribag

frequently. The petitioner is Power of Attorney holder of the Sewayats, namely,

Basanti Kumari Sethi, Raj Kumar Sethi, Indrajit Sethi and Rajesh Kumar Sethi.

It has been pointed out in course of the argument by the learned counsel

appearing for the ACB that those persons have even filed anticipatory bail

petitions before the learned Court and they have given incorrect address,

which has come in the investigation and the petitioner being the Power of

Attorney holder, is not providing correct address of those persons in spite of

the fact that he is in custody. 8. In paragraph 46 of the counter-affidavit filed by the ACB, it has been

stated that the aforesaid witnesses in their statements, have stated that

during the period from 01.04.2010 to 09.07.2015, an amount of Rs.3.16

Crores was deposited in cash in the bank account of Brahmastra Education

Private Limited, in which, wife of Vinay Kumar Choubey, namely, Swapna

Sanchita and her brother, namely, Shipij Trivedi (brother-in-law of Vinay

Kumar Choubey) are the Directors in the said company. It has also been

stated in the counter-affidavit that money trail is also being investigated by

the ACB in view of the fact that has revealed in course of the investigation. 9. There is no doubt that filing of the charge-sheet is a material

consideration while granting bail, however, the same is not the sole criterion

to be taken into consideration as it has to be coupled with the facts and

circumstances involved in the case. Here is a case, wherein, though the -6- B.A. No. 10414 of 2025 ( 2026:JHHC:224 )

charge-sheet has already been filed, however, the witnesses in the case diary

have subsequently deposed the name of the petitioner and even attributed

his specific role. The allegation against the petitioner is there of having Power

of Attorney and sold the Government land to 23 persons in connivance with

the then Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribag. 10. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has raised the ground

of parity to the co-accused, namely, Binod Chandra Jha, who happened to

be the Khas Mahal Officer at relevant point of time and he has been

granted regular bail by this Court vide order dated 05.01.2026 in B.A. No.9487

of 2025. 11. So far as parity is concerned, the law is well settled that the principle

of parity is to be applied if the case on fact is exactly similar then only the

principle of parity in the matter of passing order is to be passed but if there

is difference in between the facts then the principle of parity is not to be

applied. It is also well known that the Court cannot exercise its power in a

capricious manner and has to consider the totality of circumstances before

granting bail and only because another accused has been granted bail, the

present petitioner is also entitled for bail if the present facts are not similar.

So far as the case of Binod Chandra Jha is concerned, he has been granted

bail considering that he has passed only two orders and during his tenure the

land in question was not transferred. The land in question was transferred

later on by the successor of the said Binod Chandra Jha. Further, he was aged

about 70 years and retired in the year 2016 and he was having ailments. In

those backgrounds, the said Binod Chandra Jha was granted regular bail by

this Court. -7- B.A. No. 10414 of 2025 ( 2026:JHHC:224 ) 12. What has been discussed herein above, prima facie it appears that the

 petitioner is a prime accused being Power of Attorney holder and in

 connivance with the then Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribag, he has

 transferred the Government land. In view of these facts, the ground of parity

 is not made so far as this petitioner is concerned and, as such, the argument

 with regard to parity is, hereby, rejected. 13. In the attending facts and circumstances of the case, I am not inclined

 to grant bail to the petitioner at this stage and, hence, his prayer for regular

 bail is, hereby, rejected. 14. Accordingly, this application is dismissed. (Sanjay Kumar Dwivedi, J.)
Dated: 7th January, 2026
Ajay/

Uploaded on
8th January, 2026 -8- B.A. No. 10414 of 2025