1. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 13.07.2024 seeking information on the
following points: 2. The CPIO replied vide letter dated 07.08.2024 and the same is reproduced as under 3. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 07.08.2024 alleging that the information provided was incomplete, false and
misleading, which was not adjudicated by the First Appellate Authority. 4. Aggrieved with the non-receipt of FAA's order, the Appellant approached the
Commission with the instant Second Appeal dated 28.09.2024. 5. The appellant remained absent despite the notice and on behalf of the respondent
Mr. Pankaj Kshettry, CPIO attended the hearing in person. 6. The respondent while defending their case inter alia submitted that the CPIO gave
an appropriate reply on all the points vide reply dated 07.08.2024. Written submission
dated 05.08.2025 filed by the respondent is taken on record. Further, the CPIO submitted Page 3 of 6 that the FAA passed an order dated 28.11.2024 in which the appellant was advised to
approach the Office of the District Inspector of Schools/District Education Officer/State
Education Department/Directorate of Education where the school in contention in the
instant RTI Application is located. The respondent brought to the notice of the
Commission during the hearing that a few websites namely YouRTI.in, RTIwala.com,
RTIguru.com, RTIikho etc. are engaged in filing anonymous RTI applications on behalf
of RTI applicants keeping their identity hidden and are widely promoting the same
amongst citizens on charging some fee. The respondent has submitted that it has caused
great difficulty for them in differentiating the genuine RTI applicants and the misusers
approaching the CPIO's in the veil of anonymity. 7. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
the respondent and perusal of records, observes that the CPIO gave an appropriate reply to
the appellant on all the points vide reply dated 07.08.2024 and the FAA order dated
28.11.2024 supplemented the given information. Further, in the absence of the appellant
to plead his case or contest the CPIO's submissions, the Commission finds no scope of
intervention in the matter in terms of merits of the case. 7.1. Apart from the above, the Commission takes note of the submission made by the
respondent regarding growing misuse of certain private, unregulated websites that offer
paid services to file RTI applications on behalf of individuals. On perusal of the content
provided on the websites, namely YouRTI.in, RTIwala.com, RTIguru.com, RTIikho etc.,
it is evident that the websites are promoting anonymous RTI filing amongst the citizens.
These platforms allow users to submit applications anonymously or without proper
authentication, which defeats the very purpose of the Right to Information Act, 2005 , to
promote transparency and accountability through a traceable and lawful process. The
anonymous or proxy filing of RTI applications, bypassing legal procedures, charging high
service fees, exploiting RTI for revenue generation through misleading advertising or
offering "guaranteed replies", as mentioned in most of such websites not only undermines
the spirit of the RTI Act , but also opens avenues for data misuse, privacy violations,
and harassment of public officials. The RTI Act was enacted to empower the citizens and must be used judiciously and
any website misusing the RTI Act by commercial entities not only dilutes its effectiveness
but also causes avoidable administrative strain on government departments. Hence, the
Commission directs the Department of Personnel & Training to take necessary steps to
curb such practices, on the following lines: Recomendation(s) to PA under section 25(5) of the RTI Act, 2005:-