1. The aforesaid writ petitions have been preferred by the aforesaid
petitioners under Article 226 of the Constitution of India read with Section
482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr PC) to assail: (i) the
common order dated 06.11.2012 passed by the learned MM-05, Patiala
House Courts, New Delhi in CC Nos.218/1/2012 to 223/1/2012 and CC
No.64/1/2012 on similar applications moved by the petitioners under Section 156 (3) Cr PC, whereby their said applications were rejected and the
petitioners/ complainants were granted opportunity to lead pre-summoning
evidence to show that there is ground to proceed against the accused, and; (ii) the order dated 01.08.2013 passed by the learned ASJ-01, Patiala House
Courts, New Delhi in the criminal revisions preferred by the petitioners to W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 3 of 66 assail the aforesaid common order dated 06.11.2012. All the criminal
revisions - being Crl Rev Nos.23/2013, 10/2013, 8/2013, 24/2013, 11/2013,
80/2013 and 9/2013 were dismissed by the said impugned common order
dated 01.08.2013. 2. The petitioners had preferred their respective applications under Section 156 (3) Cr PC with substantially the same following allegations: 3. The complainants set out, from their respective agreements, the
obligation undertaken by the accused no.1 company to lease out their
respective portions to named reputed brands on handsome monthly rent "as
per the terms and conditions as already been settled by the intending seller
with the intending lessee". There were slight variations in the agreements
entered into by each of the complainants with the respondent no.1 company
in relation to the dates of commencement of the lease; the names of the
leading brand owners/ lessees, and; the rate of rent payable by the said
leading and popular brand owners/ lessees. Otherwise, the clauses in the
agreements were identical. For instance, in the agreement entered into with W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 6 of 66 the petitioners Arun Saxena and D.K. Saxena - the petitioners in W.P.(Crl.)
No.1645/2013, the agreement to sell, inter alia, provided: 4. In respect of the present writ petitioners, the names of the proposed
lessees; the rate of monthly rent that the proposed lessees had purportedly
agreed to pay, and; the date of start of the payment of monthly rent by each
of the named reputed tenants was as follows: 5. Thus, the accused represented and agreed that accused no.1 would pay
the agreed monthly rental to the complainants even if the possession of the
shop was not taken by the respective lessees/ owners of known brands by the
agreed date. 6. The complainants state that by the agreed date, the named proposed
lessees/ brand owners did not take possession of the areas, including the
areas/ shops of the complainants, and thus the accused no.1 company
became liable to pay the agreed monthly rental to them. Under their
respective agreements, the complainants were also entitled to get security
deposits, which were never paid to them. 7. The complainants stated that accused nos.1 to 3 required the
complainants to give them unconditional power for leasing their shops in the
Mall. Accused nos.2 and 3 requested the complainants to sign undated W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 8 of 66 letters, granting permission to the accused nos.1 to 3 to find suitable lessees
for the shops of the complainants. In furtherance of their malafide intentions
and nefarious designs, and with ulterior motives, the said accused got the
self addressed letters signed from the complainants. After taking the said
letters, accused no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. emerged, and introduced itself as
the tenants of, inter alia, the shops of the complainants, which was to the
total ignorance of the complainants. Thus, the complainants questioned the
same. However, the accused nos.1 to 3 assured the complainants with
regard to accused no.4 company, by stating that the said company was also
owned and controlled by the said accused, and accused no.4 had been
introduced since accused no.1 was not able to meet its contractual liabilities
towards the complainants. This was on account of the fact that criminal
cases had been lodged against accused nos.1 and 2 in respect of another
Mall being developed by the said accused at Ludhiana. The said accused
also assured that till they are able to find other reputed brand owners as
suitable tenants, respondent no.4 shall make payment of the assured rent,
and that the complainants should accept rent from respondent no.4. The
complainants stated that they were not aware of the criminal and malafide
intentions, nefarious designs, and ulterior motives of accused no.1 behind
their persistent requests and, consequently, on their assurance, they accepted
the cheques offered by accused no.4 towards payment of rent. 8. After the accused no.4 made payment of the assured rent for a few
months, as detailed in the complaints, accused no.4 became silent and
stopped making payment of the rent to the complainants. On enquiry made
by the complainants, they found the assurances given by the accused nos.1 W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 9 of 66 to 4 to be a bundle of lies. The said accused had connived and conspired
with each other to defraud the complainants. The complainants learnt that
the Mall was not even complete, and accused nos.1 to 3 could not have
given possession of any portion of the Mall to any third party. Even the
completion certificate had not been obtained from the Municipality; the Mall
had been sealed by the MCD, and; the accused was issued show cause notice
for violations of the building bye-laws and the sanction plans, and for raising
unauthorized construction. The complainant stated that accused no.4 is a
fictitious and a bogus company created and set up by accused nos.1 to 3.
Accused no.4 is incorporated and registered in Kolkata with two directors,
namely, Sh. Harjeet Singh and Sh. Sanjeev Kumar, who were arrayed as
accused/ respondent nos.5 and 6. Respondent nos. 5 and 6 are residents of
Delhi and - as per the information of the complainants, they were none other
than the employees of accused no.1 company and confidants of accused
nos.2 and 3. 9. In their complaint, Arun Saxena and D.K. Saxena - the petitioners in
W.P.(Crl.) No.1645/2013, inter alia, stated: 10. Since the complaints made by the complainants to the police at PS
Barakhamba Road, New Delhi were not actioned and no FIR was registered
despite disclosure of the commission of cognizable offences including under
Section 406/ 420/ 468/ 471 IPC read with section 120B IPC, they preferred
the aforesaid applications under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. 11. The learned Magistrate called for the Action Taken Report (ATR).
The ATR filed by the police in respect of the complaint of Arun Saxena and
D.K. Saxena, inter alia, stated that inquiry had been conducted on the
complaint of the said complainants with the officials of the accused
company. They stated that MOU/ LOI was executed between PJL Clothing
India Ltd. and the accused no.1 company prior to the complainants
approaching the accused company to buy the shop admeasuring
approximately 1167 sq. ft., but the proposed lessee did not fulfill the
agreement and hence the accused no.1 company paid the rental to the
complainants. Thereafter, the shops were leased out to M/s Sea Shore
Properties Pvt. Ltd.- respondent no.4. In terms of clause (v) of the
agreement to sell executed between the accused no.1 company and the
complainants, the complainant had given their consent and accepted the W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 12 of 66 cheque towards rent from M/s Sea Shore Properties Pvt. Ltd. M/s Sea
Shore Properties Pvt. Ltd. is entirely a different company from the accused
no.1 company and it gave rent for five month to the complainants. If M/s
Sea Shore Properties Pvt. Ltd. vacated the shop of the complainant, that was
a dispute between the complainant and M/s Sea Shore Properties Pvt. Ltd.
The ATR concluded that the dispute raised by the complainant was of purely
a civil nature. The ATR stated that no cognizable offence was made out as
the complainants have filed a civil suit in the Delhi High Court, and the
matter is already subjudice. 12. The learned Magistrate, as aforesaid, dismissed the said applications
under Section 156(3) Cr PC by a common order dated 06.11.2012. In the
impugned order, the learned Magistrate takes note of the fact that a legal
notice was issued to the respondent, which was duly replied by the said
respondent in CC NO 64/1/2012. The respondent denied that they had made
any promise to get a reputed brand as lessee, and had stated that the shops
are ready for possession after all legal compliances. In other cases, the
replies of the respondents stated that the construction of the Mall is complete
and the respondents have all the required permissions from the various
departments to operate the Mall. The respondent further stated that various
fit out are also going on in the Mall, and the complainants may start running
the shops. 13. The learned Magistrate in the impugned order, inter alia, observed: This clause nowhere states that the accused company has
 made a promise to get a reputed brand as lessee. It only
 says that it will be the discretion of the accused company to
 bring a reputed brand as lessee and the complainant can not
 make choice as to which reputed brand it would like to have
 as lessee. The complainant was also given a choice by the
 accused company to get its own lessee. Other than this
 clause I do not find even a whisper that any promise was
 made that the said accused company would bring a reputed
 brand as lessee. It is pertinent to note that allegations are
 made regarding the role played by directors/ employee of
 M/s Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. to show that there was conspiracy
 between the said accused company and M/s Sea Shore Pvt.
 Ltd. but making of promise with dishonest intent on part of
 the accused company M/s Today Homes & Infrastructure
 Pvt. Ltd. is not seen in the file which hurdle must be crossed
 before looking at the allegations regarding M/s Sea Shore
 Pvt. Ltd. ... ...". (emphasis supplied) 14. The learned Magistrate also referred to Section 91 and 92 of the
Evidence Act and observed that the parties could not be allowed to give
proof of the terms of any contract, grant or other disposition of the property
except the documents itself, or secondary evidence of its contents; if
admissible, as per law. The learned Magistrate observed that the fact that
security rent was not paid, or that the possession of the shop was not given
on time, is merely a breach of contract and that no promise had been made
by the accused company to find a reputed brand as lessee. Reliance was W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 14 of 66 placed on the decision in Dalip Kaur & Ors. v. Jagnar Singh & Anr. ,
(2009) 14 SCC 696, wherein the Supreme Court observed that an offence of
cheating would be constituted when the accused has fraudulent or with
dishonest intention at the time of making promise or representation. A pure
and simple breach of contract does not constitute an offence of cheating. He
also was of the view that all the evidences is within the reach of the
complainant as it can be established from the ROC record as to what is the
status of M/s Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. Reliance was also placed on M/s Skipper
Beverages Pvt. Ltd. v. State , 2001 IV AD (Delhi), wherein the Court held
that whether the allegations are not very serious and the complainant himself
is in possession of evidence to prove his allegations, there should be no need
to pass orders under Section 156(3) of the Code. This discretion ought to be
exercised after appropriate application of mind and only in those cases
where the Magistrate is of the view that the nature of the allegations is such
that the complainant himself may not be in a position to collect and produce
evidence before the Court and in the interest of justice demand of the police
should step in to help the complainant, who the registration of the case be
directed. Gulab Chand Upadhayay v. State of U.P. , 2002 Crl LJ 2907. He
also place reliance on V.P. Sharma (Dr.) v. State (NCT of Delhi) & Ors. ,
2009 X AD (Delhi) 701, wherein the Court found that the allegations, prima
facie reveal a civil dispute. 15. The learned ASJ, in the impugned order, inter alia, observed: P.C, particularly in the circumstances surrounding the
 instant case where the petitioners / complainants have
 approached the Court belatedly and no allegations are made
 that the respondents are likely to destroy or temper with the
 evidence. Reference in this connection can also be had to the
 Full Bench decision in the case of Panchabhai Popotbhai v.
 State of Maharashtra , 2010 Crl. L. J, 2727". (emphasis
 supplied) 16. When the petitioners preferred the present petition, notice was issued
to respondent Nos. 1 to 6 initially vide order dated 04.10.2013. They
impleaded Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd as respondent No.4. All except respondent W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 16 of 66 No.4 were served as noticed in the order dated 27.11.2013. Fresh notice was
directed to be issued to respondent No.4 by Regd.AD post and courier
returnable on 18.02.2014. The order shows that respondent No.4 could not
be served. The order dated 21.07.2014 shows that the premises at which the
respondent No.4 company was located, was found locked and no one could
provide information about the said company. Even inquiries made by the
local police officials of PS Parnashree, Kolkata from the local residents and
shopkeepers did not yield any information about the said company.
Subsequently, the petitioner‟s corrected the name of respondent No.4. That
correction was allowed by the Court vide order dated 31.08.2015. The
amended memo of parties was taken on record. 17. The hearing of the present petitions commenced on 13.07.2016.
During the course of the hearing it transpired that respondent No.4 had not
been served in terms of order dated 31.08.2015. Consequently, notice was
issued to respondent No.4 returnable on 29.07.2016. Additionally, notice
was directed to be collected by the SHO, Barakhamba Road and it was
directed to transmit the same to the SHO having jurisdiction over the area
where the respondent No.4 was situated in Kolkata, to have the same served
on respondent No.4. On 29.07.2016, Mr. Mohd. Faraz and Mr. Arshdeep
Singh, Advocate put in appearance on behalf of the respondent No.4. The
counsel stated that the vakalatnama shall be filed within two days along with
a copy the board resolution and authorization in favour of the person who
signs the vakalatnama. The petitioners were directed to supply a copy of the
petition to counsel for respondent No.4 within 2 days. They were permitted W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 17 of 66 to file a reply within two weeks. The matters were adjourned till
14.09.2016. 18. On 14.09.2016, Mr. Mohd. Faraz, Advocate who had appeared on
behalf of respondent No.4 on the previous date, stated that he appears only
for Mr. Sanjay Kumar-respondent No.6 and not for respondent No.4
company. He stated that respondent No.4 company is a defunct company.
He explained that he did not have the copy of the memo of parties on the
previous date when he made the statement - that he appear for respondent
No.4, and he had made this statement under misimpression. This
explanation of learned counsel Md. Faraz was rejected by this Court while
observing as follows: 19. On 23.03.2017, the parties expressed their desire to arrive at a
mediated settlement. The parties were, accordingly, referred to the Delhi
High Court Mediation & Conciliation Centre. However, the mediation was
a „non- starter‟ as reported by the Ld. Mediator in report dated 28.03.2017.
The matter was listed before the Court on the same day i.e., 28.03.2017
when broad terms of settlement were discussed between the parties. They
were recorded as an "aide memoire". They were also communicated to the
parties on the same day. The matter was adjourned thereafter from time to
time in the hope that the parties would settle their disputes. However, on
04.08.2017, this Court was informed by the counsel representing respondent
No.1 that the said broad terms of settlement are not acceptable.
Consequently, the matter was directed to be listed for further hearing. On
22.09.2017 another offer was made by respondent Nos. 1 to 3, that they
would sell certain flats through a Court appointed commissioner, so as to
settle the claims of the petitioners. Even the said proposal was not found
feasible and, consequently, arguments were finally heard and concluded on
13.10.2017 and judgment reserved. 20. Mr. Dayan Krishnan has, firstly, argued that the private respondents
have a right of audience before this Court, since the rejection of the
application of the petitioners under Section 156(3) Cr PC results in
termination of the proceedings and, consequently, the respondents have an
interest in the matter. He places reliance on the judgment of the Supreme
Court in Manharibhai Muljibhai Kakadia vs Shaileshbhai Mohanbhai
Patel , (2012) 10 SCC 517 in support of this submission. 21. I find merit in this submission of Mr. Krishnan. The petitioners have
also not disputed the right of the respondents to be heard in the matter. 22. Learned senior counsel for the respondents, Mr. Dayan Krishnan has
raised a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the present petitions.
I proceed to first deal with the same. 23. Mr. Krishnan submits that the petitioners have preferred the present
writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to assail judicial
orders of judicial Courts. He submits that judicial orders of judicial Courts
(and not tribunals) cannot be assailed in a writ petition, since no relief in the
nature of a writ of Certiorari can be claimed in respect of an order passed by
a judicial Court. He submits that neither the Learned MM, nor the learned
ASJ are tribunals and, being regular Courts, their orders cannot be assailed
under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. He further submits that a writ
petition is not maintainable against a private party, to settle a private dispute
of a civil nature. He submits that the disputes raised are in relation to
alleged breach of contract - at the highest. Commission of a cognizable
offence is not disclosed by the petitioners. In support of his submission he
places reliance on Shalini Shyam Shetty & Anr vs Rajendra Shankar Patil ( 2010) 8 SCC 329, and Radhey Shyam & Anr vs Chhabi Nath & Ors (2015) 5 SCC 423. 24. In Radhey Shyam &Anr (supra), the Supreme Court held that a writ
of certiorari lies against patently erroneous or without jurisdiction orders of
tribunals or authorities or Courts, other than judicial Courts. It observed that
there are no precedents in India for the High Courts to issue writs to the W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 20 of 66 subordinate Courts. Control of working of the subordinate Courts, in
dealing with their judicial orders, is exercised by way of appellate or
revisional powers, or power of superintendence under Article 227 of the
Constitution of India. Orders of the civil Court stand on a different footing
from orders of authorities, or tribunals, or Courts other than judicial/ civil
Courts. While appellate or revisional jurisdiction is regulated by the
statutes, power of superintendence under Article 227 is constitutional. In
paragraph 27 of the judgment in Radhey Shyam &Anr (supra), the Supreme
Court observed as follows: 25. In Shalini Shyam Shetty (supra) the Supreme Court held that a writ
petition under Article 226 of the Constitution would not be maintainable
against a private respondent alone. Writs could be issued to persons who
have some statutory or public duty to perform. The main respondent in a
writ proceeding should be either the Government, Governmental agency or
State or instrumentalities of State within the meaning of Article 12 of the
Constitution. However, a writ petition cannot be filed when all the
respondents are private parties. The only exception to this rule is in respect
of a writ of habeas corpus. The Supreme Court also disapproved of the
tendency of High Courts to entertain writs in purely civil and private
disputes. 26. I do not find any merit in the aforesaid preliminary objection of the
respondents to the maintainability of the present proceeding in respect of the
aforesaid impugned orders. The first noticeable aspect is that the present
petitions are preferred not only under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India, but also under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. which preserves the inherent
power of the High Court to make such orders as may be necessary to give
effect to any order made under the Code, "or to prevent abuse of the process
of any Court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice." Section 482 begins
with a non obstante clause "nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or
affect the inherent powers of the High Court....." 27. The Supreme Court in Kailash Verma vs Punjab State Civil Supplies ,
(2005) 2 SCC 571 held that a second revision to the High Court is not
maintainable after dismissal of the first revision by the Sessions Court under Section 399 of the Cr.P.C. The Supreme Court then examined the remedy
available to an aggrieved party under Section 482 of the Cr. P.C. In this
regard, the Supreme Court referred to its earlier decision in Krishnan & Anr
vs Krishnaveni & Anr , (1997) 4 SCC 241, wherein it had observed that even
though a second revision cannot be resorted to, the inherent power of the
High Court under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. is still available, and as it is
paramount power of continuous superintendence of the High Court under
Section 483, the High Court would be justified in interfering with an order
leading to miscarriage of justice, and setting aside the order of the Court
below. In paragraph 5 of the decision in Kailash Verma (supra), the
Supreme Court observed: 28. The Supreme Court also relied upon State (N.C.T. Of Delhi) vs
Navjot Sandhu @ Afsan Guru, (2003) 6 SCC 641, wherein it had observed
that the inherent power under Section 482 Cr.P.C is to be used only in cases
where there is an abuse of the process of the Court, or where interference is
absolutely necessary for securing the ends of justice. 29. Thus, to say that the present petitions are not maintainable would not
be correct. Even if a writ petition under Article 226 cannot be maintained to
seek a writ of certiorari i.e. to seek the quashing of the two impugned orders
passed by judicial Courts, a petition under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C would
be maintainable to assail the said two orders, and High Court would exercise
its inherent jurisdiction, if it finds that there has been an abuse of the process
of the Court, or that interference is absolutely necessary for securing the
ends of justice. The issue of maintainability of a petition under Section 482 W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 23 of 66 Cr.P.C . cannot be confused with the exercise of the inherent jurisdiction in
the facts of a given case. 30. Secondly, I may notice the prayer made by the petitioners in their writ
petitions, which are more or less identical. The prayer made in CRL(WP)
1645/2013 preferred by Arun Saxena and Anr. reads as follows: Dharmsh Sharma, ld. ASJ, New Delhi in the criminal revision
 no. 23 of 2013 preferred by the petitioner against order passed
 by sh. Ashok Kumar ld. mm dated 6.11.2012 and thereafter
 direct the SHO of the concerned police station to register an fir
 against the accused under inter alia under sections
 406/420/461/467/468/478 & 120-b ipc" 31. Thus, apart from seeking to assail the two impugned orders, the
petitioners also seek a direction to the SHO of the concerned police station
to register a First Information Report against the accused, inter alia under Section 406 , 420 , 461 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120(B) IPC. According to the
petitioners, the police was duty bound to register the FIR and investigate the
alleged offence, since the information laid disclosed commission of
cognizable offences. Thus, the petitioners complain of non-performance of
their statutory duty by the police. It is well settled that a writ petition under Article 226 would be maintainable to seek a writ in the nature of mandamus,
to compel the performance of its statutory duty by a statutory/ public
authority. Reference may be made to State of U.P. v. Harish Chand & Ors. ,
(1996) 9 SCC 309. Thus, the submission of the petitioners - that the
information disclosed by them discloses commission of a cognizable W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 24 of 66 offence, would need examination, and the petition - even under Article 226 ,
cannot be rejected at the threshold. Pertinently, these petitions have been
filed by the petitioners, after availing of, and exhausting the alternative
efficacious statutory remedy available under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. In these
circumstances, in my view there is no bar to the maintainability of the writ
petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to seek such a relief. 32. I am conscious of the decision in Sakiri Vasu v. State of U.P. & Ors. ,
(2008) 2 SCC 409. In Sakiri Vasu (supra), the Supreme Court observed that
the High Court should discourage the practice of filing of a writ petition or a
petition under Section 482 Cr PC, simply because a person has grievance
that his FIR has not been registered by the police or, that after being
registered, proper investigation has not been done by the police. The
Supreme Court observed that for this grievance, the remedy lies under Section 36 and Section 154(3) of Cr PC before the police officers concerned,
and if that is of no avail, under Section 156(3) Cr PC before the Magistrate,
or by filing criminal complaint under Section 200 Cr PC, and not by filing a
writ petition, or a petition under Section 482 Cr PC. The Supreme Court
also observed that the alternative remedy is not an absolute bar to a writ
petition, but it is equally well settled that if there is an alternative remedy,
the High Court should not ordinarily interfere. 33. In my view , the said decision does not come in the way of the
petitioners for the reason, that they have indeed invoked Section 154 Cr PC
in the first instance and, thereafter, Section 156(3) Cr PC, before preferring
the present petition not only under Section 482 Cr PC, but also under Article
226 of the Constitution of India. Thus, they have already exhausted their W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 25 of 66 other alternative efficacious remedies without satisfactory redressal of their
grievance. If they succeed in assailing the impugned orders passed by the
learned MM - rejecting their application under Section 156(3) , and the order
in revision under Section 397 passed by the Sessions Court, they would be
entitled to press their relief to seek a writ in the nature of mandamus for a
direction to the SHO concerned to register the FIR and investigate the same.
Whether, or not, in the facts of a given case, the Court would exercise its
writ jurisdiction to grant such a relief, is a different matter. 34. Reliance placed by Mr. Krishnan on Shalini Shyam Shetty (supra) is
also misplaced. Firstly, in respect of a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C., it
is not necessary that the same should be directed against the State, or an
instrumentality of the State as defined Article 12 of the Constitution.
Secondly, in the present petition, the State is also a party represented
through the SHO, PS Barakhamba Road. Thus, objection to the
maintainability of the present petitions is rejected, being devoid of any
merit. 35. To appreciate the submission of learned counsels it is, firstly,
necessary to appreciate the scope of Section 156 , and in particular Sub
Section (3) thereof. Section 156 of the Cr.P.C. reads as follows: 36. The petitioners had preferred their respective applications under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. before the Ld. MM. to seek a direction to respondent
No.7-SHO, PS Barakhamba, New Delhi to register their First Information
Reports on the basis of their complaints. The petitioners averred in their
applications that they had given their written complaints in PS Barakhamba
Road and, despite their best efforts, no case had been registered by the
police. The complaints preferred by the petitioners have been placed on the
record, which bear endorsement of receipt by the SHO, PS Barakhamba
Road, New Delhi. 37. By placing reliance on Subhkaran Luharuka & Anr. v. State (Govt
of NCT of Delhi), 170 (2010) DLT 516, learned senior counsels for the
respondents have submitted that the power of the Magistrate under Section
156(3) of the Code is a discretionary remedy, as the provision uses the word
"may" in respect of the power of the Magistrate to order investigation. The
submission is that the Ld. Magistrate having exercised his discretion for the
reasons disclosed, this Court should not interfere with the same. This Court W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 27 of 66 is not sitting in appeal against the impugned orders. Merely because another
view may be possible, this Court should not substitute the view of the ld.
Magistrate and the Ld. ASJ. 38. No doubt, the said power is a discretionary power vested in the Ld.
Magistrate. However, whenever a discretionary power is vested by a statute
on a statutory/ public authority, the nature of such discretionary power is not
arbitrary, whimsical or fanciful. That discretionary power can only be
exercised fairly, reasonably, and bonafide. When discretionary power is
vested in a judicial authority or court, the exercise of discretion should also
be judicious. I may refer to the judgment of the Supreme Court in U.P. State
Road Transport Corporation & Anr. V. Mohd. Ismail & Ors. , (1991) 3
SCC 239. The Supreme Court considered the manner in which statutory
discretion has to be exercised. It observed: according to law and not humour. It is to be, not arbitrary,
 vague, and fanciful, but legal and regular. And it must be
 exercised within the limit, to which an honest man competent to
 the discharge of his office ought to confine himself". Every
 discretion conferred by statute on a holder of public office must
 be exercised in furtherance of accomplishment of purpose of the
 power... ...". 39. Reliance has been placed by learned senior counsels for the
respondents on State of Gujarat v. Girish Radhakrishnan , (2014) 3 SCC
659 and, in particular, para 12 thereof, wherein the Supreme Court observed: An examination of these provisions makes it clear that when a
 Magistrate takes cognizance of an offence upon receiving a
 complaint of facts which constitute such offence, a case is
 instituted in the Magistrate's court and such a case is one
 instituted on a complaint. Again, when a Magistrate takes
 cognizance of any offence upon a report in writing of such facts
 made by any police officer it is a case instituted in the
 Magistrate's court on a police report. The scheme underlying CrPC clearly reveals that anyone who wants to give
 information of an offence may either approach the Magistrate
 or the officer in charge of a police station. If the offence
 complained of is a non-cognizable one, the police officer can
 either direct the complainant to approach the Magistrate or he
 may obtain permission of the Magistrate and investigate the
 offence. Similarly anyone can approach the Magistrate with a
 complaint and even if the offence disclosed is a serious one, the
 Magistrate is competent to take cognizance of the offence and
 initiate proceedings. It is open to the Magistrate but not
 obligatory upon him to direct investigation by police. Thus,
 two agencies have been set up for taking offences to the
 Court". (emphasis supplied) 40. In my view, the said reliance is misplaced. Firstly, there can be no
quarrel with the proposition that it is not obligatory for the Ld. Magistrate to,
in all cases, direct investigation by the police, when a complaint is filed W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 29 of 66 disclosing commission of a cognizable offence. That discretion vests in the
Ld. Magistrate. Pertinently, this case was not concerned with the scope of
the power of the learned Magistrate under Section 156(3) Cr PC. It did not
concern the manner in which the said power should be exercised by the
learned Magistrate. The Supreme Court set out the question which came up
for consideration before it in paragraph 2, which reads as follows: 41. The factual context in which the Supreme Court made its observations
was entirely different. In that case, the FIR already stood registered with the
police station. The charge sheet was submitted before the Magistrate. The
complainant submitted an application before the Magistrate for adding
certain charges under the IPC into the charge sheet. That application was
allowed by the Magistrate. In revision, the Sessions Court set aside the
order passed by the learned Magistrate. The High Court upheld the order of
the Sessions Judge. The Supreme Court held that at the time of consideration
on charge and framing of charge, it was open to the Magistrate to either add
or remove any of the penal provisions. The same could not be done in the
manner resorted to by the complainant. Thus, the decision in Girish
Radhakrishnan (supra) does not help in resolving the issue raised by the W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 30 of 66 petitioners- viz. whether the Ld. Magistrate and the Ld. ASJ have applied
the correct principles of law while rejecting the petitioners applications
under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. 42. In Madhao & Anr. v. State of Mahrasthra & Anr., (2013) 5 SCC
615, on the complaint of the complainant, the learned Magistrate directed
the police to investigate the matter under Section 156(3) Cr PC and to
submit a detailed report. That order was assailed by the accused/ appellants
before the Bombay High Court by preferring applications under Section 482
Cr PC. The High Court dismissed those applications, holding that the
procedure adopted, and power exercised by the Magistrate ordering
investigation under Section 156(3) Cr PC was just and proper. The
appellants then preferred their Special Leave Petitions before the Supreme
Court, which were granted and appeals registered. The Supreme Court
considered the issue whether the learned Magistrate was justified in
directing the police to investigate and submit a detailed report within one
month under Section 156(3) of the Code. In this context, the Supreme Court
referred to its earlier judgment in CREF Finance Ltd. v. Shree Shanthi
Homes (P) Ltd. , (2005) 7 SCC 467. The Supreme Court observed as
follows: It is clear that any Judicial Magistrate before taking
 cognizance of the offence can order investigation under Section
 156(3) of the Code. If he does so, he is not to examine the
 complainant on oath because he was not taking cognizance of
 any offence therein. 18. When a Magistrate receives a complaint he is not bound
 to take cognizance if the facts alleged in the complaint disclose
 the commission of an offence. The Magistrate has discretion in
 the matter. If on a reading of the complaint, he finds that the
 allegations therein disclose a cognizable offence and the
 forwarding of the complaint to the police for investigation
 under Section 156(3) will be conducive to justice and save the
 valuable time of the Magistrate from being wasted in
 enquiring into a matter which was primarily the duty of the
 police to investigate, he will be justified in adopting that
 course as an alternative to taking cognizance of the offence
 itself. As said earlier, in the case of a complaint regarding the
 commission of cognizable offence, the power under Section
 156(3) can be invoked by the Magistrate before he takes
 cognizance of the offence under Section 190(1)(a). However, W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 32 of 66 if he once takes such cognizance and embarks upon the
 procedure embodied in Chapter XV, he is not competent to
 revert back to the pre-cognizance stage and avail of Section
 156(3) . 19. Where a Magistrate chooses to take cognizance he can
 adopt any of the following alternatives: (b) The Magistrate can postpone the issue of process and
 direct an enquiry by himself. (c) The Magistrate can postpone the issue of process and
 direct an enquiry by any other person or an investigation
 by the police. 20. In case the Magistrate after considering the statement of
 the complainant and the witnesses or as a result of the
 investigation and the enquiry ordered is not satisfied that there
 are sufficient grounds for proceeding he can dismiss the
 complaint. 21. Where a Magistrate orders investigation by the police
 before taking cognizance under Section 156(3) of the Code and
 receives the report thereupon he can act on the report and
 discharge the accused or straightaway issue process against
 the accused or apply his mind to the complaint filed before him
 and take action under Section 190 of the Code. 22. The above principles have been reiterated in Devarapalli
 Lakshminarayana Reddy v. V. Narayana Reddy [(1976) 3 SCC W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 33 of 66 252 : 1976 SCC (Cri) 380] and Tula Ram v. Kishore
 Singh [(1977) 4 SCC 459 : 1977 SCC (Cri) 621] . 23. Keeping the above principles, if we test the same with the
 direction issued by the Magistrate for investigation under Section 156(3) of the Code and the facts of these cases, we are
 satisfied that the Magistrate has not exceeded his power nor
 violated any of the provisions contained in the Code. As
 observed earlier, the Magistrate need not order any
 investigation if he presupposes to take cognizance of the
 offence and once he takes cognizance of the offence, he has to
 follow the procedure provided in Chapter XV of the Code. It is
 also settled position that any Judicial Magistrate before taking
 cognizance of the offence can order investigation under Section 156(3) of the Code. 24. As rightly observed by the High Court, the Magistrate
 before taking cognizance of the offence can order investigation
 under Section 156(3) of the Code, we are of the view that the
 procedure adopted and the power exercised by the Magistrate
 in this case is acceptable and in accordance with the scheme of
 the Code. We are also satisfied that the High Court rightly
 refused to exercise its power under Section 482 of the Code.
 (emphasis supplied) 43. Thus, the Supreme Court rejected the challenge to the order passed by
the learned Magistrate under Section 156 (3) Cr PC directing the police to
investigate the matter in terms of Section 156(1) of the Code. It was not
essential for the Magistrate to take cognizance of the complaint before
ordering investigation by the police under Section 156(3) Cr PC. At the
same time, once the Magistrate takes cognizance of an offence, and embarks
on the procedure prescribed under Chapter 15 of the Code, he cannot revert
back to the pre-cognizance stage, and avail of Section 156 (3) Cr PC. On W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 34 of 66 the same aspect, Mr. Krishnan has relied on Tula Ram & Ors. v. Kishore
Singh , (1977) 4 SCC 459. 44. These decisions, in my considered view, do not in any way advance
the submission of Mr. Krishnan. The issue in the present case is a limited
one i.e. whether the learned Magistrate was justified in rejecting the
applications of the petitioners under Section 156(3) Cr PC. The only issues
that arise for consideration are whether: the learned Magistrate and the
learned ASJ were justified in holding that the allegations did not disclose
commission of a cognizable offence; whether they were justified in holding
that the petitioners were possessed of the requisite evidence within their
power and control to be able to pursue their complaint, and; whether, in the
facts of the case, investigation by the police was essential. 45. Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. vests a discretionary power upon the Ld.
Magistrate, coupled with the duty for him to act in a judicious manner. Ld.
Magistrate cannot refuse to exercise his said discretion when the exercise of
such discretion is warranted in the facts of the given case. If he fails to
exercise his discretion in a deserving case, his order would be open to
challenge in revision - either before the Sessions Court, or before this Court.
If the failure to exercise the said discretion leads to abuse of the process of
the Court, or miscarriage of justice, the said failure could still be assailed
before the High Court in a petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to prevent the
abuse of the process of Court, or otherwise to secure the ends of justice,
notwithstanding the fact that the Sessions Court has rejected the challenge to
the order of the learned Magistrate in revision proceedings. 46. The exercise of the judicial discretion vested in the learned Magistrate
under Section 156(3) Cr PC has to be viewed in the light of the fact that the
police cannot refuse to register the FIR, and cannot turn away an informant - who gives information about the commission of a cognizable offence, on
the ground that the informant has all the information and evidence in his
possession, and he should prefer his private complaint. The police must
register the FIR. On the aspect that the police is bound to register the FIR
and to investigate the cognizable offence, when one is disclosed by the
informant, the law is well settled and I may take note of only a couple of
decisions of the Supreme Court on the subject. 47. In Ramesh Kumari v. State (NCT of Delhi) & Ors. , (2006) 2 SCC
677 the Supreme Court observed in paragraph 4 as follows: (emphasis in original)

 Finally, this Court in para 33 said: (SCC p. 355)

 "33. It is, therefore, manifestly clear that if any information
 disclosing a cognizable offence is laid before an officer in
 charge of a police station satisfying the requirements of Section 154(1) of the Code, the said police officer has no
 other option except to enter the substance thereof in the
 prescribed form, that is to say, to register a case on the basis
 of such information." (emphasis supplied) W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 38 of 66 48. I may also take note of the judgment rendered by a Constitution
Bench of the Supreme Court in Lalita Kumari vs Govt.Of U.P. , (2014) 2
SCC 1, dealing with registration of the First Information Report in a
cognizable case. The conclusions/ directions contained in the said decision read as follows: The aforesaid are only illustrations and not exhaustive of all
 conditions which may warrant preliminary inquiry. 120.7. While ensuring and protecting the rights of the accused
 and the complainant, a preliminary inquiry should be made
 time-bound and in any case it should not exceed 7 days. The
 fact of such delay and the causes of it must be reflected in the
 General Diary entry. 120.8. Since the General Diary/Station Diary/Daily Diary is the
 record of all information received in a police station, we direct
 that all information relating to cognizable offences, whether
 resulting in registration of FIR or leading to an inquiry, must
 be mandatorily and meticulously reflected in the said diary and
 the decision to conduct a preliminary inquiry must also be
 reflected, as mentioned above." (emphasis supplied) 49. Thus, in view of the law laid down in Bhajan Lal (supra), which was
followed in Ramesh Kumari (supra)- upon receipt of information disclosing
commission of a cognizable offence, the police officer concerned is
mandated to register a case and investigate the same. The police officer
cannot embark on an enquiry as to whether the information laid by the
informant is reliable and genuine, or not. He cannot refuse to register a case
on the ground that the information is not reliable or credible. He is
statutorily obliged to register the case and then to proceed with the
investigation, if he has reason to suspect the commission of a cognisable W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 40 of 66 offence. The police cannot tell the complainant that even though his
complaint discloses commission of a cognsiable offence, he must prefer a
complaint under Section 200 Cr PC since, according to the police, the
complainant is possessed of all the information necessary to prosecute the
accused and that police has no role in the matter of conduct of investigation. 50. A perusal of Subhkaran Luharuka (supra) shows that, unfortunately,
the learned Single Judge neither noticed nor considered the decisions in Bhajan Lal (supra) and Ramesh Kumari (supra). 51. In Amit Khera v. GNCTD & Ors. , 171 (2010) DLT 607, the petitioner
had assailed the order passed by the learned ASJ, dismissing the revision
petition, against the order of the learned MM dismissing his application
under Section 156 (3) Cr PC. Thus, the background in which the petition
was preferred before this Court, was similar to the present cases. The
petitioner had made a complaint to the SHO that he received threats on his
mobile phone from another mobile phone number disclosed by him. He
claimed that he had recorded the conversation of the caller with himself, and
given the said conversation to the police. The police, however, did not
register the FIR. Consequently, the petitioner preferred the application
under Section 156(3) Cr PC before the learned MM. The learned MM
declined the petitioners application on the ground that he had failed to
explain why the involvement of police machinery was required, since no
recovery was to be made by the police officials and his allegations of illegal
demand of money, and of the petitioner being given threats could very well
be established before the Court on leading proper evidence. He also held
that no technical or scientific investigation was required. The petitioner was W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 41 of 66 given liberty to file a complaint under Section 200 Cr PC. The learned ASJ
found no infirmity in the order passed by the learned MM. This Court did
not agree with the approach of the Courts below and allowed the said
petition. It was observed by this Court as follows: 52. I may now turn to examination of the relevant aspects taken note of in
para 44 above in the facts of the present case. 53. The petitioners/ complainants allege commission of offences under,
inter alia, Section 406 / 420 / 468 and 120B IPC i.e., criminal breach of trust,
cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy etc. on the premise that the
respondent No.1 acting through respondent Nos. 2 and 3, its Chairman cum
Managing Director, and Director lured and wrongfully induced, with
deliberate mal-intention, the petitioners/ complainants to invest in their
project for development of a mall called North Gate Orbit Mall, which was
assured to be State of the Art; with all mandatory permissions/ clearances for W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 43 of 66 construction and; with reputed occupants/ tenants offering handsome market
rent. The petitioners/ complainants further state that under the agreements
entered into with each of them, the said respondents had undertaken to pay
rent for the premises agreed to be purchased by each of the petitioners/
complainants, till the expiry of rent free and fit-out period, as mentioned in
the agreements with each of the petitioners/ complainants, or till the leasing
of the premises agreed to be purchased by each of the petitioners/
complainants, whichever is later. 54. I have already taken note of the particulars of the proposed lessees;
the relevant dates from which the obligation to pay the rent had to
commence, and; the rate of rent payable to the purchasers in paragraph 4
hereinabove. 55. Since the agreements are in the same format, for the purpose of
discussion, I may take note of the clauses in the agreement dated 13.12.2006
entered into with the petitioners Arun Saxena and D.K. Saxena- the
petitioners in W.P.(C.) No. 1645/2013. Under the said agreement the
petitioners, Arun Saxena and D.K. Saxena agreed to purchase Unit No.
UGF- 33 on the upper ground floor admeasuring 599.28 sq. ft. super area,
for a consideration of Rs.50,93,115/- as the basic sale price. The said
petitioners paid the sum of Rs.10,00,000/- at the time of signing of
agreement to sell. Eventually, the petitioners Arun Saxena and D.K. Saxena
have made full payment of the full basic price under the agreement to sell. 56. Clause 3(v) of the agreement to sell provides that; 57. Thus, under the agreement to sell, the said petitioners Arun Saxena
and Arun Saxena agreed to purchase the defined Unit No. UGF- 33 on the
upper ground floor admeasuring 599.28 sq. ft. super area. The respondent
Nos. 1 to 3- being the intended sellers, retained an unrestricted right to lease
out the said premises. However, this right was subject to two
representations/ promises made on behalf of the respondent Nos. 1 to 3,
namely, that the premises would be let out "to any reputed brand in the
market" and "at the market prevailing rates". The intending sellers/
respondent Nos. 1 to 3 also undertook to provide necessary basic amenities/
facilities, such as electric power/ meter, sub-meter etc. to the intending
purchaser on charged basis. The intending sellers/ respondent Nos. 1 to 3
also stated that the possession of the floor space is proposed to be delivered
to the intending purchaser/ petitioners on or before 30.06.2007 for fit outs.
The agreement to sell dated 13.12.2006 with the petitioners Arun Saxena
and D.K. Saxena contains the following endorsement jointly signed by the
parties: 58. Thus, at the time when the agreement to sell was entered into by the
petitioners- Arun Saxena and D.K. Saxena, it was clearly represented to
them that the property agreed to be purchased by them was proposed to be
leased to M/s. P.J.L. Clothing (India) Ltd. @ Rs. 135/- per sq. ft. per month,
and that the respondent Nos. 1 to 3 shall pay the rental for the premises till
the expiry of the rent free and fit out period of 01.07.2007, or whichever is
later 59. The first grievance of the petitioners/ complainants is that though it
was represented to them by the respondent Nos. 1 to 3 that they had entered
into various LOI/ MOU‟s with "Reputed brands", to lease the unit/ premises
of complainants, they later came to learn that the shop/ unit of the
petitioners/ complainants had not been at all given to the promised brands.
They specifically aver that the accused did not let out the shop/ unit of the
complainants to the brand owners as promised. 60. Thus, the first aspect that requires investigation is whether respondent
Nos. 1 to 3 did, in fact, enter into any genuine agreements/ LOIs/ MOUs
with the intended lessees- particulars whereof are mentioned in paragraph 4
hereinabove, or did the said respondents, at the time of entering into the W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 46 of 66 agreements to sell with the respective petitioners/ complainants, knowingly
and deliberately make false representations to the respective petitioners, that
they had entered into agreements/ LOIs/ MOUs with the proposed lessees,
where under the proposed/ intended lessees had agreed to take the respective
portions of the petitioners on lease at the rates of rent disclosed to the
petitioners and mentioned in the endorsement made in the respective
agreements entered into with the petitioners and taken note of in paragraph 4
hereinabove, with a view to induce them into parting with their money-
which they otherwise would not have. 61. It would also require investigation whether the said agreements/ LOIs/
MOUs, if any, were merely a paper exercise, or were they genuinely
negotiated and entered into with the respective intended lessees/ popular
brands. This is essential, since it is the positive case of the petitioners that
they were induced and lured into investing in the project of respondent Nos.
1 to 3 by the representations made to them that their respective portions in
the mall under development had already been agreed to be leased out to
reputed brands at the rates of rent disclosed to the respective petitioners.
Thus, the decisions taken by respective petitioners to make their respective
investments were influenced by the said representations made by
respondents. 62. If the said representations were false on the date when they were
made- to the knowledge of respondent Nos. 1 to 3, and they were made with
a view to induce the respective petitioners to make their investment in the
project of respondent Nos. 1 to 3, the submission of the petitioners/ W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 47 of 66 complainants that the offence under Sections 406 / 420 / 468 IPC read with Section 120B IPC are made out would, prima facie, have to be accepted. 63. Pertinently the petitioners/ complainants are not privy to the
negotiations undertaken by the respondent Nos. 1 to 3 with the disclosed
reputed brands, if any, or to the LOI‟s/ MOU‟s/ agreements, if any, that
may have been entered into between respondent Nos. 1 to 3 and the intended
lessees. They are not possessed of the said agreements/ LOI/ MOU‟s, and
are not aware of the terms and conditions thereof. Only respondent Nos. 1
to 3 and the disclosed intended lessees would be possessed of the
documents, if any, in this regard, and would have knowledge of the
negotiations undertaken between respondent Nos. 1 to 3 on the one hand,
and the intended lessees on the other hand. The petitioners/ complainants
are also not in a position to investigate on their own, the reasons as to why
all the intended lessees mentioned in paragraph 4 hereinabove backed out
and did not take on lease the premises agreed to by them at the rates of rent,
and on the terms and conditions on which, they purportedly earlier agreed to.
To determine whether the petitioners/ complainants are indeed the victims of
criminal breach of trust, cheating, and forgery for cheating and criminal
conspiracy as complained of by them, investigation into the said aspects
would be essential, which only an authorized and empowered police force
can undertake. Private persons, such as the petitioners neither have the
where withal, nor the capacity, nor the expertise, nor the legal authority to
carry out investigation into such aspects. 64. The further grievance and accusation of the petitioners/ complainants
is that since the reputed brands did not take their respective portions on lease W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 48 of 66 by the disclosed dates (in the case of Arun Saxena and D.K. Saxena, the date
being 30.06.2007), accused No.1 became liable to pay the agreed monthly
rent to the petitioners/ complainants which was paid, though irregularly, by
the accused Nos. 1 to 3 to the petitioners/ complainants for some time. The
petitioners state that their decision to invest in the project of the accused
Nos. 1 to 3 was also premised on the assurance given by them that, even if
they did not find reputed brands as lessee, they would, on their own make
payment of the rent. The petitioners/ complainants allege that when they
demanded accused Nos. 1 to 3 to release the arrears of rent, instead of
releasing the same, accused Nos.1 to 3 required the petitioners/ complainants
to give their unconditional authority to the said accused to enable accused
No. 2 and 3 to find suitable lessees for the shops/units of the petitioners/
complainants at rentals/ assured returns which were intended to be better
than the rentals as were agreed to be given to the complainants when the
complainants were induced and duped into purchasing the units/ premises
from accused Nos. 1 to 3. 65. The petitioners/ complainants state that after getting the self addressed
letters signed from them, without taking their consent and approval- as
assured, accused Nos. 1 to 3 purportedly leased out their respective premises
to accused Nos. 4- M/s Sea Shore Properties Pvt. Ltd. The same was
informed to the petitioners/ complainants Arun Saxena and D.K. Saxena
vide letter dated 02.07.2009. The petitioners/ complainants were shocked to
receive the communication from accused No.4- M/s Sea Shore Properties
Pvt. Ltd whereby respondent No.4 introduced itself as the tenant of the shop
of the petitioners/ complainants. The petitioners state that on receiving the W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 49 of 66 communication along with the cheque from accused No.4, they conveyed
their shock and surprise to accused Nos. 1 to 3. They also raised a grievance
with regard to the leasing of their shop/ premises by accused Nos. 1 to 3 to
accused No.4 without prior permission and authority. The petitioners/
complainants state that they did not present the cheques issued by accused
No.4 for encashment, whereupon accused Nos. 1 to 3 approached them to
encash the said cheques and further informed that accused No.4 was a
company owned and possessed by the accused No.1, and since the accused
were not able to meet their contractual liability towards the complainants -
as criminal cases had been lodged against the accused No.1 and 2 in respect
of the infamous Ludhiana Mall Scam, accused No. 1 would be meeting its
contractual liability towards the petitioners/ complainants through accused
No.4. Accused Nos. 1 to 3 also assured that they are in the process of
finding a suitable tenant for the shop/ premises in question, and till the time
a suitable tenant is not found and the shop is not let out to a suitable tenant
on terms and conditions better than those mentioned in the LOI‟s with the
previous reputed/ famous brands, the petitioners/ complainants should agree
to take the rent from accused No.4. The petitioners state that being
unmindful of the criminal and mala fide intention, nefarious designs and
ulterior motives of respondent Nos. 1 to 3, they presented the cheques for
encashment. 66. The petitioners/ complainants stated that accused No. 4 continued to
pay the assured rent to the complainants for their shop for a few months- as
detailed in the respective complaints. In furtherance of their criminal and
mala fide intentions and ulterior motives, the respondents stopped paying the W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 50 of 66 legal dues to the petitioners/ complainants. The petitioners/ complainants
state that on their enquiry they were informed that accused No.4 had
breached the MOU entered into by it with respondent Nos1 to 3. Accused
Nos. 1 to 3 further informed the petitioners/ complainants that they could
take the possession of their shop. 67. The petitioners/ complainants have averred that on an enquiry they
found that the steps taken by accused Nos. 1 to 3 - in relation to leasing of
the mall space - including the shop/ premises of the petitioners/
complainants were a bundle of lies. The said accused had conspired with
each other to cheat the petitioners/ complainants. The petitioners/
complainants state that on their enquiry they found that the mall had not
been completed and had not been issued a completion certificate by the
MCD. The same had been sealed by the MCD and the accused Nos. 1 to 3
had been issued show cause notices for blatant violations/ unauthorized
construction in the mall. The petitioners have placed on record the response
received from the MCD to the queries raised under the Right to Information
Act in respect of the mall in question - i.e. North Gate Mall, Gujrawala
Town, Delhi. The reply is dated 13.06.2011 which discloses that the said
mall had not been issued a completion certificate; that the mall was sealed
during the last 3 years on three occasions; that the possession could not have
been offered without issuance of completion certificate to the purchaser and
that the possession could not have been offered even on the date of the reply
i.e., 13.06.2011; that there are violations in the construction of the mall; that
show cause notices have been issued in respect of various violations and; even if the possession were to be given without the completion certificate,
the shops could be sealed. 68. The petitioners/ complainants have alleged that accused No.4 is a
fictitious and bogus company created by respondent Nos. 1 to 3,
incorporated and registered in Calcutta with two directors, namely, Sh.
Harjeet Singh and Sh. Sanjeev Kumar - accused Nos. 5 and 6, who are
residents of Delhi and as per the information of the petitioners/
complainants, they are the employees of accused No.1 company and
confidants of accused Nos. 2 and 3. 69. The petitioners have made the following concluding averments in the
complaint: 70. As noticed herein above, accused nos.1 to 3 had retained the
unrestricted right to lease out the premises of the petitioners/ complainants
to reputed brands in the market at the market prevailing rates, and coupled
with this was the obligation to lease out the premises of the petitioners/
complainants to reputed brands in the market at prevailing market rates. The
issue that arises is whether, in discharge of the said obligation, accused nos.1
to 3 could have leased out the premises of the respective petitioners to any
entity- such as respondent no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd., without fulfilling their
said obligation. Prima facie, the answer would be in the negative.
Embedded in the authority retained by accused nos.1 to 3 to have
unrestricted right to lease out the premises of the petitioners/ complainants
to reputed brands in the market at prevailing market rates, is the entrustment
of the property of the petitioners/ complainants with the accused. The
accused nos.1 to 3 retained the dominion over the property/ premises of the
petitioners/ complainants, since they retained the unrestricted right to lease
out the same. The accused no.1 company had the obligation to pay the rent
till a reputed tenant was found on prevailing market rate for the premises of
the petitioner/ complainants. Thus, accused nos.1 to 3 could not have leased
out the premises of the petitioners/ complainants to any entity which was not
a reputed brand, and at a rate of rent which was not the prevailing market
rent. 71. The petitioners have alleged that respondent no.4 is a bogus company
promoted by accused nos.1 to 3. Its two directors are the employees of
accused no.1. The issue that thus, arises is as to how accused nos.1 to 3
found accused no.4- for the purpose of leasing out a huge space of 60,000 W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 54 of 66 sq. feet on ground floor, upper ground floor and first floor of the mall, and
how they agreed to lease out the premises of the petitioners/ complainants to
accused no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. It requires investigation as to what due
diligence was undertaken by accused nos.1 to 3 to ascertain whether accused
no.4 fulfilled the criteria of being a reputed brand in the market. What
exercise did the accused nos.1 to 3 undertake to determine the solvency of
accused no.4. 72. Prima facie, it appears that the so-called leasing of the large area of
the Mall to respondent no.4 was a sham, since the Mall had not been issued
the completion certificate; the possession could not have been offered
without issuance of completion certificate to the purchaser, and; the
possession could not have been offered even on the date of the reply i.e.
13.06.2011. The Mall had been sealed on three occasions by the MCD in
the three year period preceding 13.06.2011. Thus, the question arises, as to
how a large part of the Mall was leased out to respondent no.4 Sea Shore
Pvt. Ltd. and why any independent entity would take such large areas on the
Mall on lease when the same could not be occupied or used commercially.
These aspects require deep and thorough investigation. 73. Pertinently, it is the case of the petitioners that they were informed by
accused nos.1 to 3 that accused no.4 is a bogus company promoted by
accused no.1 and that accused no.4 was only a vehicle to make payment of
the monthly rent under the agreements to sell, which accused no.1 was not
able to pay on account of the on-going investigation in respect of the
Ludhiana Mall Scam. 74. From the facts taken note of herein above, it has transpired that there
is substance in the accusation of the petitioners as initially made with regard
to respondent no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. being a bogus company. It has
transpired that respondent no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. is never known to have
existed. The status report dated 16.07.2014 filed by the SHO PS
Barakhamba Road, inter alia, states that the I.O. visited the premises of
respondent no.4 i.e. 14/1, Netaji Subash Road, Behala, Kolkata, which was
found locked and no one could provide information about respondent no.4
company. On inquiry from the local residents and shopkeepers, none of
them could provide any information. Two shops on the ground floor of the
said premises were found locked. 75. Pertinently, I have also noticed herein above the manner in which
counsels initially appeared to represent respondent no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd.
on 29.07.2016. When respondent no.4 was asked to produce before Court
the board resolution authorizing the person empowered to sign the
vakalatnama, on the very next date, the counsel took the stand that he was
appearing for respondent no.6 and not for respondent no.4. This stand of the
counsel was rejected on 14.09.2016 by observing as follows: 76. The submission of respondent nos.1 to 3 is that according to the
petitioners/ complainants, they were aware that respondent no.4 Sea Shore
Pvt. Ltd. is promoted by respondent no.1 only as a vehicle to be able to
fulfill its contractual obligation of paying the rent for the premises of the
petitioners/ complainants. Thus, there was no misrepresentation made to the
petitioners/ complainants. However, that is not the stand of respondent
nos.1 to 3 who have sought to wash off their hands from their obligation
under the agreements to sell, by claiming that it is a matter between the
petitioners on the one hand and respondent no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. on the
other hand, and the dispute between them - with regard to non payment of
rent, is a civil dispute. The status report filed by the police before the Ld.
MM was also on the same lines. In this background, it requires investigation
as to wherefrom respondent no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. received monies,
which were paid towards rent to the petitioners/ complainants for a few
months that they did. The money trail is essential to be tracked to unearth
the fraud and conspiracy as alleged by the petitioners/ complainants. 77. The petitioners are at sea and are not aware of the manner in which
respondent nos.1 to 3 found respondent no.4 as the lessee for the area of
60,000 sq. ft in the Mall, which included the premises/ shops of the
petitioners. There is no way that they can, on their own, unearth the
complete transaction entered into between the respondent nos.1 to 3 on the
one hand and respondent no.4 on the other hand. What were the
considerations that flowed between them when the transaction was entered
into can only be gathered upon thorough investigation by an empowered and
skilled investigating agency. The petitioners do not have the authority; the
wherewithal; the capacity, and; the expertise to gather evidence in this
respect. If, the grievance of the petitioners that respondent nos.1 to 3 have
only resorted to a paper exercise with a view to evade their liability and
dupe the petitioners by introducing respondent no.4 as the tenant is correct;
the same would, prima facie, disclose commission of offences under
Sections 406/420/468 read with Section 120B IPC since, according to the
petitioners, it was on the clear assurance and understanding of respondent
nos.1 to 3, as narrated herein above, that they accepted the rent offered by
respondent no.4. 78. I may now turn to the two orders impugned by the petitioners. The
learned MM in the impugned order dated 06.11.2012 has interpreted clause
3(v) of the agreement to sell to say that the said clause does not oblige the
accused company to find a reputed brand as lessee. This interpretation of
clause 3(v) is patently incorrect. There may not have been a definite and
binding obligation on the part of accused nos.1 to 3 to find any tenant. However, failure to do so entailed the consequence of accused nos.1 to 3
having to pay the rent on their own. However, if respondent nos.1 to 3
chose to let out the premises/ shops of the petitioners/ complainants to third
parties, then they were bound- under the terms of the agreement, to lease out
the same to reputed brands on prevailing market rent. The learned MM has
clearly omitted to take note of the fact that the petitioners/ complainants
were made a clear representation by respondent nos.1 to 3 at the time when
the agreements to sell were entered into, that their premises would be leased
out to reputed brands at prevailing market rents and, in pursuance of the said
assurance respondent nos. 1 to 3 had disclosed the intended lessees, the rates
of rent, and the dates from which the lessees would take the premises/ shops
on lease. Merely because the petitioners/ complainants also had the
conditional right to find a tenant on their own, with the approval of
respondent nos.1 to 3, it did not whittle down the obligation of respondent
nos.1 to 3 to discharge the trust created in them- i.e., to act diligently in the
matter of finding a lessee for the petitioners (if they chose to find the tenant),
who could be described as a reputed brand, and to lease out the shops/
premises of the petitioners/ complainants on prevailing market rent. 79. I also cannot appreciate the observation made by the learned MM that
there is nothing to show that the directors/ employees of respondent no.1 did
not act with dishonest intent while inducting respondent no.4 as the lessee in
the Mall, inter alia, in respect of the premises/ shops of the petitioners/
complainants. Prima facie, the leasing of the large area of 60,000 sq.ft. in
the mall to respondent No.4 which has turned out to be a dubious or non-
entity, raises strong suspicion and doubts about the intentions of respondent W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 59 of 66 Nos.1 to 3, particularly in the background that the obligation to make
payment of rent was sought to be transferred by this transaction, by
respondent nos. 1 to 3 to respondent no.4. The learned MM has sought to
invoke Section 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act. In my view, they are wholly
irrelevant in the face of the allegations made by the petitioners and the
documents on which their complaint is premised. The learned MM refers to
the clause in the agreement to sell, which records that the accused company
has provided information, clarification etc. to the petitioners/ complainants.
What is missed out is that the said clause records the position as on the date
of agreement to sell, and not thereafter. What is also missed is the fact that
the information documents shown to the petitioners/ complainants count for
nothing, as the intended lessees did not showed up- for reasons best known
to them, and respondent Nos. 1 to 3. 80. Reliance placed by the learned MM on Dalip Kaur & Ors. v. Jagnar
Singh , (2009) 14 SCC 696 is misplaced, since, prima facie, the offences of
cheating, criminal breach of trust, forgery for the purpose of cheating and
criminal conspiracy are made out from the allegations and the materials
produced by the petitioners/ complainants. The observation that the
petitioners can collect the record from the ROC in relation to respondent
no.4 Sea Shore Pvt. Ltd. has no merit, considering the fact that the
endeavour to locate respondent no.4 and its directors has lead to a dead end. Reliance placed on Skipper Beverages v. State , 2001 (iv) AD (Del) is not
apposite, since it cannot be said that the allegations in the present cases are
not serious, or that the petitioners/ complainants are in possession of the
evidence to prove the same. It prima facie, appears that a large body of W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 60 of 66 innocent persons may have been cheated and duped by the respondents of
their hard earned life savings. They have paid practically the entire agreed
basic consideration, and have been left high and dry on account of the
alleged conduct of the respondents, and for anyone to say that the acts
complained of do not constitute, prima facie, serious offences would be to
ignore and turn a blind eye to serious offences. Reliance placed on the
observations made in V.P. Sharma (Dr.) v. State (NCT of Delhi) & Ors. ,
2009 (x) AD (Del) 701 is misplaced in the circumstances of the case, as
discussed herein above. 81. The order passed by the learned ASJ in revision, unfortunately,
displays the same lack of understanding of the legal position and
appreciation of the allegations made against the respondents. The enormity
of offence has been completely missed and trivialized by the learned ASJ
while passing the impugned order. The learned ASJ has sought to place
reliance on Tula Ram & Ors. v. Kishore Singh , AIR 1977 SC 2401. The
quoted extract from the said decision merely states that the Magistrate could
order investigation under Section 156(3) Cr PC only at the pre-cognizance
stage, and where the Magistrate decides to take cognizance under the
provisions of Chapter 14, he is not entitled in law to order any investigation
under Section 156(3) Cr PC. The purpose of relying upon the said decision is unclear. Merely because the power to order investigation under Section
156(3) Cr PC is discretionary, as noticed herein above, it does not follow
that the Magistrate can fail to exercise the said discretion even in deserving
cases. 82. The ld. ASJ has observed that, by and large, all the evidences,
including documentary in nature are in the possession and control of the
petitioners/ complainants. As I have already noticed herein above, this is
certainly not the position. There are various aspects to which the petitioners/
complainants are not privy, and they have no information or knowledge
about the same. It is for the accused to explain their conduct, and come out
clean on those aspects. 83. The next reason given by the ld. ASJ is that the complainants have
come to the Court belatedly. I wonder how the ld. ASJ has come to this
conclusion. The complainants have disclosed that accused No.4 continued
to make payment of rent for a few months. The petitioners/ complainants
received payments till about June, 2009 from respondent No. 4- Sea Shore
Pvt. Ltd. Thereafter, respondent No.1 sought to raise bills for maintenance
charges. The petitioners have disclosed that in June, 2011, the MCD stated
that the mall was not issued the completion certificate; the mall was sealed
at least 3 times during the last 3 years; the possession of the mall could not
be offered without the completion certificate; that there were violations in
the construction of the mall for which show cause notices had been issued
and; that the mall could be sealed even if possession had been given to the
buyers like the petitioners/ complainants. Respondent No.1 sent
communication of 20.12.2011 claiming that the mall was complete, and that
the said respondents had the requisite permissions from various departments
to operate the mall. The petitioners/ complainants- Arun Saxena and D.K.
Saxena state in their notices dated 22.12.2011, that they visited the site on W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 62 of 66 09.11.2011 and found nothing to show that the mall is operational. Not even
a single shop was open. 84. The petitioners made police complaints in the end of 2011 and, since
no FIR was registered, they preferred their applications under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. in June, 2012. Certainly, keeping in view the aforesaid chain of
circumstances and developments, to say that there has been an inordinate
delay on the part of the complainants in the matter of filing of applications
under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., is wholly unjustified. Even though the
possession was not delivered to the petitioners on 01.07.2007, the petitioners
were paid the rent/ liquidated damages by respondent No.1and, subsequently
even by respondent No.4 till sometime in the middle of 2009. Thus, failure
to deliver possession by respondent Nos. 1 to 3 in July, 2007 is not material
for the purpose of examining the aspect of delay. 85. In view of the aforesaid, the two impugned orders appear to be
patently erroneous and they are, accordingly, quashed. 86. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, in my view, serious
miscarriage of justice has taken place by denying to the petitioners/
complainants their prayer for direction to the police to register a case on
their complaint. The petitioners/ complainants have been left high and dry
and with no satisfactory remedy. They have been left to fend for
themselves, when they are not possessed of the machinery and authority of
the State. As lay persons, they are not in no position to carry out the
necessary investigation to bring home their allegations. Their complaints
disclose commission of serious cognizable offences under Section
406/420/468 read with Section 120B IPC. Investigation by the police of the W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 63 of 66 said offences is not only conducive to justice, and would not only save the
time of the Court from being wasted, it is absolutely imperative- if the
offenders absolutely have to be brought to justice. 87. I am of the considered view that in exercise of the inherent
jurisdiction of this Court, the mistake committed by the Courts below in
rejecting the applications of the petitioners/ complainants under Section
156(3) Cr.P.C. ought to be corrected. Accordingly, I direct that the SHO, PS
Barakhamba Road to register separate FIR‟s forthwith on the complaints of
the petitioners/ complainants and to proceed with the investigation into the
cognizable offences disclosed by the petitioners/ complainants, inter alia,
under Section 406/420/468 read with Section 120B IPC. The police must
strictly comply with Section 219(1) Cr.P.C. 88. The reluctance shown by the police in registering the FIR‟s on the
complaints of the petitioners/ complainants, despite the same disclosing
commission of serious cognizable offences, as also their opposition to the
applications of the petitioners/ complainants under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.
before the ld. MM; thereafter before the Ld. ASJ; and thereafter before this
Court shakes the confidence of this Court and raises doubts as to whether the
police is truly interested in performing its statutory obligations. The
possibility of the accused- who are builders are having deep pockets,
influencing the machinery, cannot be ruled out. 89. I may observe that looking to the circumstances of the cases; I was
inclined to direct the registration of the cases and investigation by the CBI,
since the cases would involve conduct of investigations not only within the
NCT of Delhi but also in other places like Kolkata, where respondent No.4 W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 64 of 66 Company was registered. However, I am refraining from doing so at this
stage in the hope that Delhi Police would make all endeavors to redeem
themselves and restore the shaken confidence of this Court. 90. In the aforesaid light, I direct that after the registration of the
individual FIRs in each of the cases at the Barakhamba Road Police Station,
the investigation shall be undertaken under the supervision of the DCP
concerned. 91. In case, the petitioners and/ or the concerned Court are not satisfied
with the manner and pace of investigation undertaken by the police, it shall
be open to them to approach the Court to seek the transfer of investigation in
the cases to another independent agency like the CBI, by providing
justification therefor. 92. In the end, I make it clear that observations made by me in this
judgement on the merits of the cases have been made purely for the purpose
of examination of the limited aspect, namely, whether the rejection of the
applications of the petitioners/ complainants under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C.
was justified in the face of the allegations made, and material relied upon by
the petitioners/ complainants, and whether the same led to serious
miscarriage of justice calling for interference by this Court in exercise of its
inherent jurisdiction, to correct the mistakes committed by the Courts below.
The observations made in this judgment shall not prejudice the case of either
party at any stage of the proceedings. 93. The petitions are allowed with costs quantified at Rs. 10,000/-
each to be paid by respondent Nos. 1 to 3. The costs be paid within two
weeks. VIPIN SANGHI, J

AUGUST 23, 2018 W.P.(CRL) 1645/2013 & all connected matters Page 66 of 66