BANERJEE, J. A very sad tale concerning fourteen young kids	resulting in
untimely and unfortunate death of all of them stands out to be the
subject matter of the Appeal under consideration: Sad tale by
reason of the fact that a sheer fun of young ones turned out to be
fatal as a consequence of utter	 and callous neglect of teachers on
duty. Adverting to the factual aspects, it appears that on 28.5.1995,
59 boys and 18 girls (totaling 77) students, all in 4th, 5th and 6th
classes of Dalhousie Public School, Badhani, Pathankot	were
brought for a picnic at	 Tandapatanindora on the bank of river
Beas. The Head Master of the School deputed one Shri Surinder
Pal Singh and another Shri K. Shanmugham being teachers in the
School for escorting and taking due and proper care of the
students. Incidentally, the site chosen for the picnic was the same
on which the earlier picnic of the School was held on 7th May,
1995. On the contextual facts, it appears that the School concerned
has in its activities, a usual picnic for all the students in batches.
Some of the students had already been into the picnic and these 77
were chosen for the batch which was scheduled for 28th May,
1995. It has been the version of the School authorities that in a
true educational institution, extra curricular activities play a
dominant role in imparting proper education to the students and
outings/picnics thus have been a regular feature in the school: On the further factual score, it appears that the Government
of Himachal Pradesh, ordered a judicial inquiry under the Commission of Inquiry Act 1952 by the District and Sessions
Judge, Kangra and the State of Punjab also ordered an inquiry by
the sub-divisional Magistrate, Pathankot but nothing was
forthcoming by reason wherefor the private respondents on 14th
July, 1995, being the parents of the unfortunate children moved a
writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution in the High
Court against the Petitioner Nos.1 and 2 and respondent Nos.14-
16 seeking a relief by way of an inquiry by C.B.I to find out the
causes for the tragedy and fixation of responsibility therefor and
punishment to the guilty ones together however, with a prayer for
adequate compensation from the School authorities and on 2nd
August, 1995, the High Court ordered an Inquiry to be conducted
by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the latter upon
examination of various witnesses recording the unfortunate
incident of drowning of children concluded in paragraph 41 of the
report as below: The Writ Petition, however, came up for final disposal before
the High Court on 4th March, 1996 wherein the writ petition was
allowed and it was ordered that the Chairman and the Management
of the School shall pay a compensation of Rs.5 lakh to each of the
parents of fourteen students who died in the incident and a sum of
Rs.30,000/- to each of the parents of students who suffered due to
drowning incident within two months with interest at the rate of
12% per annum from 28th May, 1995 by depositing the same in the
registry of the High Court and hence the Special Leave Petition
before this Court and the subsequent grant of leave with an order
to deposit a sum of Rs.7 lakhs towards discharge of the liability of
the petitioner, if ultimately upheld by the Court to be disbursed in
accordance with the orders of the court. Incidentally, the order
requiring the petitioner to deposit a sum of Rs.7 lakhs stands
complied with. It is on this factual backdrop	Mr. Bahuguna, learned Senior
Advocate in support of the Appeal in no uncertain terms stated
before the Court that the event that has happened, should not have
happened. Strong reliance was placed on the report of the C.B.I.
wherein there has been total exoneration of any liability so far as
the management of the School are concerned though responsibility
has been fixed on to School teachers personally. Mr. Bahuguna
with his usual eloquence expressed his deepest sorrow for the
incident and on the very first day of the hearing submitted that
irrespective of any instruction in the matter,	a sum of Rs. 2 lakhs
can be termed to be a reasonable figure and his clients should be
prepared to pay the same a good gesture undoubtedly, but since
the same does not receive concurrence from Mr. Malhotra, the
learned Senior Advocate, appearing for the Respondents herein, we
refrain ourselves from expressing any opinion thereon.	Be that as
it may,	 Mr. Bahuguna contended the quantum had	 been fixed by
the High Court at a strangely	staggering figure Rs. 5 lakhs
without however	 any basis whatsoever - Acknowledging,
however, the fact that no amount of compensation can possibly
redress the grievances of the parents in the contextual facts, it has
been contended that the law courts also cannot possibly proceed on
emotions and sentiments only: the order pertaining to payment of
compensation must have its foundation on some finding of fact in
the absence of which the order becomes totally untenable. A
number of decisions have been cited to depict that the quantum
must be realistically realistic having its proper basis rather than
assessment thereof on sentiment and anguish. Mr. Bahuguna
submitted that the anguish of the Judges of the High Court
obviously is understandable but that does not however mean and
imply, award of compensation to a staggering amount of Rs.5
lakhs per student by reason wherefor the School stands foisted with
the liability of more than one crore. Mr. Bahuguna contended that
assessment of compensation must also have a co-relation with the
ability or capability to pay. Ability to pay, it was contended	 is a
necessary criteria in regard to the fixation of quantum of
compensation in the event of there being an unfortunate event and
it is on this score that paragraph 41 of the Report has been taken
recourse to The teachers have been ascribed to be negligent and
not a whisper about the conduct of the school and as such
conferment of liability on to the school in any event is totally an
injudicious discretion of the High Court. True, and as noticed
hereinbefore the conclusion of CBI, fixed the entire responsibility
upon the two teachers and criminal proceedings stand initiated by
reason therefor and the accused persons as a matter of fact also
stand convicted under Section 304-A I.P.C. but what is the
affect of such a finding: Needless to record that the CBIs
investigation was not in regard to the assessment of the quantum of
tort feasors or joint tort-feasors liability and as such the report by
itself would not be of any assistance to the school authorities in the
matter of fixation of monetary liability by reason therefor. Incidentally, this Court in C.K. Subramania Iyer and Others
v. T. Kunhikuttan Nair and Six Others [(1969) 3 SCC 64]	 while
dealing with the matter of fatal accidents laid down certain relevant
guidelines for the purpose of assessment of compensation.
Paragraph 13 of the report would be relevant on this score and the
same is set out hereinbelow: The life expectancy of the deceased or of the
beneficiaries whichever is shorter is an important
factor.	 Since the elements which go to make up
the value of the life of the deceased to the
designated beneficiaries are necessarily personal
to each case, in the very nature of things, there
can be no exact or uniform rule for measuring the
value of human life. In assessing damages, the
Court must exclude all considerations of matter
which rest in speculation or fancy though
conjecture to some extent is inevitable. As a
general rule parents are entitled to recover the
present cash value of the prospective service of
the deceased minor child. In addition they may
receive compensation for loss of pecuniary
benefits reasonably to be expected after the child
attains majority. In the matter of ascertainment of
damages, the Appellate Court should be slow in
disturbing the findings reached by the courts
below, if they have taken all the relevant facts into
consideration. (Emphasis supplied)

The observations as above, undoubtedly lays down the basic
guidance for assessment of damage but one redeeming feature
ought to be noted that compensation or damages cannot be
awarded as a solatium but to assess the same with reference to loss
of pecuniary benefits. In the decision last noted [(1969) 3 SCC 64]
this Court placed strong reliance on two old decisions of the
English Courts to wit: Franklin v. The South East Railway
Company	 (157 English Reports 3 H & N, p.448) wherein Pollock,
C.B. stated : While the parent owes his child, a duty of care in relation to
the childs physical security, a teacher in a School is expected to
show such care towards a child under his charge as would be
exercised by a reasonably careful parent. In this context, reference
may be made to a decision of Tucker, J. in Ricketts v. Erith
Borough Council and Another (1943 (2) All ER 629) as also the
decision of the Court of Appeal in Prince and Another v. Gregory
and Another (1959(1)WLR177). Duty of care varies from situation to situation - whereas it
would be the duty of the teacher to supervise the children in the
playground but the supervision, as the children leave the school,
may not be required in the same degree as is in the play-field.
While it is true that if the students are taken to another school
building for participation in certain games, it is sufficient exercise
of diligence to know that the premises are otherwise safe and
secure but undoubtedly if the students are taken out to playground
near a river for fun and swim, the degree of care required stands at
a much higher degree and no deviation therefrom can be had on
any count whatsoever. Mere satisfaction that the river is otherwise
safe for swim by reason of popular sayings will not be a sufficient
compliance. As a matter of fact the degree of	care required to be
taken specially against the minor children stands at a much higher
level than adults: Children need much stricter care.
Incidentally, negligence is an independent tort and has its
own strict elements specially in the matter of children	 the
liability is thus absolute vis-à-vis the children. The school
authorities in the contextual facts attributed	 negligence to the two
teachers who stand convicted under Section 304A of the Indian
Penal Code as noticed above and	 Mr. Bahuguna appearing in
support of the appeal during the course of hearing, however, also
in no uncertain terms attributed utter negligence on the part of the
teachers and thus conceded on the issue of negligence.
Concession, if any, as noticed above, though undoubtedly a good
gesture on the part of the school authority, but can the school
absolve its responsibility and corresponding culpability in regard to
the incident: Would they be termed to be a joint tort feasors or
would it be a defence that the school has taken all due care having
regard to its duty and it is irrespective thereof by reason of utter
neglect and callous conduct on the part of the two of the teachers
escorting them that has caused the injury Mr. Bahuguna
contended that the school cannot be made liable under any stretch
of imagination by reason of the happening of an event which is not
within the school premises and has, in fact, happened by reason of
the neglect of two of the teachers. It is on this score that Mr.
Malhotra rather emphatically contended that the liability cannot
simply be obliterated by reason of plea of utter neglect on the part
of the two of the teachers: School concerned can be said to be
liable even as a joint tort-feasor and in any event, Mr. Malhotra
contended that applicability of the doctrine of vicarious liability
cannot be doubted or be brushed aside,	in any way whatsoever and
since the issue of vicarious liability has been more emphatic and
pronounced than the issue of joint tort-feasor, we deem it
expedient to deal with the second of twin issues first as noticed
above. Be it noted that the doctrine of vicarious liability has had a
fair amount of judicial attention in the English Courts. By the end
of 18th century, the idea began to grow up that some special
importance ought to be attached to the relationship of master and
servant and in 1849 it was officially held that existence of that
relationship was essential. Thereafter, though primary liability on
the part of anyone could be established on proof of direct
participation in the tort, such direct participation was not even
theoretically required to make a master liable for his servants
torts.	The liability is derived from the relationship and is truly
vicarious. At the same time, the phrase implied authority which
had been the cornerstone of the masters primary liability gives
way gradually to the modern course of employment. (vide
Winfield & Jolowicz on Tort 15th Ed.). In recent years, the tendency has been however,	 towards
more liberal protection of third party and so in establishing a
particular course of employment the court should not dissect the
employees basic task into component parts but should ask in a
general sense: What was the job at which he was engaged for his
employer? And it is on this perspective Lord Wilberforce in
Kooragang Investments Pty. Ltd. v. Richardson & Wrench Ltd.
(1982 A.C. 462) stated: The English law, therefore, takes a softer attitude in
cases where motor vehicles are involved in the matter of foisting of
liability so far as the employer is concerned the reason obviously
being if the concerned employee acts in a manner contrary to the
course of employment and on a frolic of his own	 why should
the employer be made responsible: It seems logical but obviously
there are cases and cases on the basis wherefor the liability of the
employer ought to be fixed. The Privy Council in Kooragang Ltd.
attributed frolic of his own to be the exonerating factor but this
frolic has also to be considered from facts to facts in the matter of
foisting of liability on to the employer. In any event, we need not
devote much of our time to the excepted cases, since we have in
this country several legislations covering the excepted
categories. The recognition of broader approach however, stands
undisputed and has also our concurrence herewith.
Significantly, however, Mr. Malhotra with all the emphasis at
his command and rather strongly commented upon the submissions
of Mr.	Bahuguna on the issue of award of compensation by reason
of specific legislations in the country	 in particular reference to Motor Vehicles Act and on a conjoint reading of the 2nd Schedule
thereto, Mr. Malhotra contended that the quantum would be far in
excess of the amount awarded by the High Court	submissions
seem to be rather attractive: Motor Vehicles Act and the 2nd
Schedule thereto cannot but be treated to be a guide in the matter
of award of compensation and there cannot possibly be any doubt
in regard thereto. We shall however be dealing with the issue
slightly later in this judgment. Turning attention however on to the issue of vicarious
liability, one redeeming feature ought to be noticed at this juncture
that to escort the children was the duty assigned to the two teachers
and till such time thus the period of escorting stands over, one
cannot but ascribe it to be in the course of employment	 the two
teachers were assigned to escort the students : the reason obviously
being the children should otherwise be safe and secure and it is
the act of utter negligence of the two teachers which has resulted in
this unfortunate tragedy and thus it is no gain-said that the teachers
were on their own frolic and the school had done all that was
possible to be done in the matter safety of the children obviously
were of prime concern so far as the school authorities are
concerned and till such time the children return to school, safe and
secure after the picnic, the course of employment, in our view
continues and thus resultantly, the liability of the school.
A profitable re-capitulation of facts depict that the criminal
court has already found both the teachers guilty of utter negligence
and convicted them under Section 304 A IPC (which provides that
whoever causes the death of any person by doing any rash or
negligence act not amounting to culpable homicide shall be
punished with)	 We are not inclined to record anything
contra, save what stands recorded by the District Court in the
criminal proceeding but we are constrained to record our anguish
over the conduct of the teachers escorting the students	 even a
simple rule of discipline and safety would have prompted the
teachers not only to go to the river where they went but no where
near the river ought to have been the guiding factor children are
children: fun and frolic stand ingrained in them and it is
School/Teachers deputed for escorting ought to be reasonably
careful since entrusted with the safety	 this entrustment ought to
have infused a sense of duty which should have prompted them to
act not in the manner as they have so acted. In view of the above, we are unable to record our
concurrence with the submissions of Mr. Bahuguna that the
doctrine of vicarious liability cannot in any event be made
applicable in the facts of the matter under consideration. Liability
of the school, in our view, in the contextual facts cannot be shifted
for any reason whatsoever by reason of the factum of teachers
being within the course of employment of the school at the time of
the tragedy. Next is the issue maintainability of the writ petition before
the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. The
appellant though initially very strongly contended that while the
negligence aspect has been dealt with under penal law already, the
claim for compensation cannot but be left to be adjudicated by the
Civil law and thus the Civil courts jurisdiction ought to have been
invoked rather than by way of a writ petition under Article 226 of
the Constitution. This plea of non-maintainability of the writ
petition though advanced at the initial stage of the submissions but
subsequently the same was not pressed and as such we need not
detain ourselves on that score, excepting however recording that
the law courts exists for the society and they have an obligation to
meet the social aspirations of citizens since law courts must also
respond to the needs of the people. In this context reference may
be made to two decisions of this court:	 The first in line, is the
decision in Nilabati Behera (Smt) alias Lalita Behera (Through the
Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee) v. State of Orissa and
Others (1993 (2) SCC 746) wherein this Court relying upon the
decision in Rudal Sah ( Rudal Sah v. State of Bihar & Anr. : 1983
(4) SCC 141) decried the illegality and impropriety in awarding
compensation in a proceeding in which courts power under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution stand invoked and thus
observed that it was a clear case for award of compensation to the
petition for custodial death of her son. It is undoubtedly true
however that in the present context, there is no infringement of
States obligation unless of course the State can also be termed to
be a joint tort-feasor, but since the case of the parties stand
restricted and without imparting any liability on the State, we do
not deem it expedient to deal with the issue any further except
noting the two decisions of this Court as above and without
expression of any opinion in regard thereto. The decision of this Court in D.K. Basu vs. State of West
Bengal [(1997) 1 SCC 416] comes next.	This decision has opened
up a new vesta in the jurisprudence of the country. The old
doctrine of only relegating aggrieved to the remedies available in
civil law limits stands extended since Anand, J. (as His Lordship
then was) in no uncertain terms observed: R..M.K. Veluswami [AIR 1962 SC 1] where the
Supreme Court stated that the general principle is
that the actual pecuniary loss can be ascertained
only by balancing on the one hand the loss to the
claimants of the future pecuniary benefit and on
the other any pecuniary advantage which from
whatever source comes to them by reason of the
death, that is, the balance of loss and gain to a
dependant by the death, must be ascertained. Needless to say that the multiplier method stands accepted by
this Court in the decision last noticed and on the acceptability of
multiplier method this Court in para 16 had the following to state: fourth is deducted therefrom towards the
uncertainties of future life and for immediate
lump sum payment, the effective multiplier would
be between 30 and 34. This is wholly
impermissible. We are, aware that some decisions
of the High Courts and of this Court as well have
arrived at compensation on some such basis. These decisions cannot be said to have laid down
a settled principle. They are merely instances of
particular awards in individual cases.	The proper
method of computation is the multiplier method.
Any departure, except in exceptional and
extraordinary cases, would introduce
inconsistency of principle, lack of uniformity and
an element of unpredictability for the assessment
of compensation. Some judgments of the High
Courts have justified a departure from the
multiplier method on the ground that Section 110-
B of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 insofar as it
envisages the compensation to be just., the
statutory determination of a just compensation
would unshackle the exercise from any rigid
formula. It must be borne in mind that the
multiplier method is the accepted method of
ensuring a just compensation which will make
for uniformity and certainty of the awards. We
disapprove these decisions of the High Courts
which have taken a contrary view. We indicate
that the multiplier method is the appropriate
method, a departure from which can only be
justified in rare and extraordinary circumstances
and very exceptional cases. In Lata Wadhwas case, however, this Court came to a
conclusion that upon acceptability of the multiplier method and
depending upon the facts situation namely the involvement of
TISCO in its tradition that every employee can get one of his child
employed in the company and having regard to multiplier 15 the
compensation was calculated at Rs. 3.60 lacs with an additional
sum of Rs.50,000/- as conventional figure making the total amount
payable at Rs.4.10 lacs for each of the claimants of the deceased
children. The decision in Lata Wadhwa, thus, is definitely a guiding
factor in the matter of award of compensation wherein children
died under an unfortunate incident as noticed morefully
hereinbefore in this judgment. Having considered the matter in its proper perspective and
the applicability of multiplier method and without even any further
material on record we do feel it expedient to note that though Mr.
Bahuguna attributed the quantum granted by the High Court as
strangely absurd, we, however, are not in a position to lend our
concurrence therewith.	 It is not that the award of compensation at
Rs. 5 lacs can be attributed to be the resultant effect of either
emotion or sentiments or the High Courts anguish over the
incident. The High Court obviously considered the overall
situation as regards social placements of the students.	 As stated
hereinafter the school presently is one of the affluent school in the
country and fee structure and other incidentals are so high that it
would be a well nigh impossibility to think of admission in the
school at even the upper middle class level. Obviously the school
caters to the need of upper strata of the society and if the 2nd Schedule of Motor Vehicles Act , can be termed to be any guide,
the compensation could have been a much larger sum. Thus in the
factual situation award of compensation	 at Rs. 5 lakhs cannot by
any stretch be termed to be excessive.	Another redeeming feature
of Mr. Bahuguna submissions pertains to the theory of ability to
pay: Audited accounts have been produced for the year 1995
depicting a situation, though not of having stringency but the
situation truly cannot but be ascribed to be otherwise comfortable
to pay as directed by the High Court. The matter, however,
prolonged in the law courts in the usual manner and it took nearly
six years for its final disposal before this Court these six years
however had rendered the financial stability of the school
concerned in a much more stronger situation than what it was in
the year 1995.	The school as of date stands out to be one of the
most affluent schools in the country as such ability to pay cannot
be termed to be an issue in the matter and on the wake thereto we
are not inclined to deal with the same in any further detail. In the view we have taken as above, we could have awarded
a larger sum but judicial propriety deters us from doing so, since
in the normal course of events appellate forum ought not to
interfere with the award of compensation. In the view, we have taken as noted hereinbefore, we do not
feel it inclined to deal with the other issue of the school authority
being a joint-tort feasor as submitted	before this Court by the
respondents. The issue thus is left open. As regards the question of interest as contended by Mr.
Malhotra, we feel it inclined to grant 6% simple interest from the
date of the judgment of the High Court till payment on the
reducing balance. The amount so directed by the High Court
together with interest as modified above be paid by eight (8)
quarterly installments. The amount deposited in terms of earlier order of this Court
inclusive of interest with the Registrar of this Court be made
available to the parties pro-rata in terms of this order and the
balance, however, be paid as directed above. This appeal thus stands disposed of without any order as to
costs. .J.
					(A.P. Misra)

					.J.
					(Umesh C. Banerjee)
August 24, 2001