SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Never ever trust Paytm wallet. Here's my story:
DATE: 2015-09-26
SCORE: 21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3mduse/never_ever_trust_paytm_wallet_heres_my_story/

--- POST TEXT ---

This happened in August.

So it's close to around 2:30-2:45 AM. I'm at my girlfriend's home and both of us are asleep. 

Suddenly her phone rings. Her brother, supposed to return in the evening from a trip, is coming back in half an hour because of some issue with his friend.

She wakes me up. She's visibly terrified. She mumbles the whole situation and I dash for my shoes. I put everything I own within sight in my bag and tell her I'm leaving.

She's close to tears because she's sweet as fuck. It's pitch dark outside and she is worried how I'll get to my place.

I tell her l'll just call an Uber. 
Now, this is before Uber rolled out credit card and cash payments and Paytm was the sole mode of payment.

I open my app. Fuck!! I'm around 50 rupees short of 200 in my wallet. 200 is the minimum you should have if you want to book an Uber.

I don't tell her. Because I know she'll freak out because she's sweet as fuck. She's honey flavored nutella dipped in diabetes.

I decide to add the money as I walk to her society's gate.
I kiss her, tell her not to worry, and leave. 

I start walking towards the society gate. I'm wearing a T-shirt, shorts and shoes. I had been asleep for just an hour before I was woken up.

I also have Vodafone 3G. So everything is slow. My gaand is ripping apart at supersonic speed because her brother knows me by face and his car would enter from the very gate I'm headed to.

By the time I reach the gate, I'm at the last stages of adding money in the Paytm wallet through my card. No car has entered the gate. Phew.

I exit the gate and go towards the right, into a park away from the main road. 
Now I'm sitting at a bench in a park at 3AM, the only light is 50 metres away in the guard room at the gate. It's really really dark. I am dressed like a faking news writer's mental image of Rahul Gandhi.

I finally make the payment.

Me: Yessss! Imma haul my ass outta here

Paytm: Fuck you you gonna stay here 

I go to the Uber app and guess what, I'm still 50 short!
I switch back to Paytm. I go to the transactions. 

ORDER ID: TULODUHAI
STATUS: IN PROCESS

BAAPKEBHOSDEMEPHASALANGOOR, I shout in my mind. 

I start another transaction thinking my bank might have fucked up.
I try with another card of another bank.

SAME RESULT

I've two orders under processing.
I am sitting in a dark park at 3AM in the night. I am wearing shorts. 

I can't book a cab because HARAMKHOR PAYTM WOULDN'T TAKE MY MONEY WHICH I AM MORE THAN WILLING TO GIVE!

I get up and start walking towards an auto stand a kilometer away. 
I reach there. NO AUTOS.

It's been 25 minutes since I left her house. My payments are still under process. I am wearing nakli Adidas ke shorts.

All this while I didn't realise that the brother had passed me and was already home.
I did notice a few cars passing but I had stopped giving a fuck because I hated Paytm from the deepest portions of my heart and was already contemplating turning into a homophobe so I could call them Gaytm and be proud of myself. 

*5 more minutes of walking toward a hotel-where-autos-might-be*

Incoming call: Sweet As Fuck Girlfriend

She's in the washroom. She's more composed and relieved. 

"Kaha pahucha?"

"Yar *insert hotel name* ke paas. Paytm me paise nahi hai. Auto dekh raha hu."
 
Several sweet as fuck remarks that can be translated as tuchutiyahaiyouareneverfatheringmybabies later:

"Mai apne Paytm se transfer kar rahi hu"

I asked her for 50 but she transferred me 200 from her Paytm wallet because she is sweet as fuck. 

Paytm: SweetAsFuckGirlfriend has transferred you ₹200

10 minutes later, I'm in an Uber. 30 minutes, I'm at my flat. 

TL;DR: read the whole post. 30 minute me phone pe type ki hai