1.	Heard Sri Siddharth Khare, learned counsel for the petitioner and Ms. Suman Sirohi, learned Standing Counsel for respondents. 2.	On 14.2.2014 Sri Khare was heard at length and was directed to file a supplementary affidavit of the petitioner annexing therewith copy of the receipt of deposit of fees for appearance in the examination, admit card and other documents to demonstrate that he appeared as a private candidate in Adhikari Pariksha of 1997, alleged to have been held by Gurukul Vishwavidyalay, Vrindavan, Mathura. 3.	Again on 20.2.2014 writ petition was heard at length and the following order was passed : 4.	Today Sri Siddharth Khare has filed second supplementary affidavit dated 24.2.2014 of the petitioner, which is taken on record. It is stated in paragraph 8 of this supplementary affidavit as under : 5.	Sri Siddharth Khare submits as under : 6.	Sri Khare, therefore, submits that  in view of the interim order passed in Special Appeal No. 1632 of 2013, the petitioner being a similarly situated person is entitled for similar interim relief. 7.	Learned Standing Counsel has again produced today the original records and this Court perused the same. Referring to the application form of the petitioner, she submits that a declaration was made by the petitioner in the application form that if any information given in the application form is found to be wrong or untrue, he be dismissed from service even after selection. In the said application form, the petitioner has given details of his educational qualification and annexed the high school mark sheet and certificate, which have been found to be forged on verification from the Vice Chancellor of Gurukul Vishwavidyalaya, Brindavan, Mathura. She further submits that once the very basis of obtaining the employment has been found to be forged, the dismissal of the petitioner from service is wholly justified. She submits that the original certificate produced by the petitioner before this Court has also been found to be forged as noted in the above quoted order dated 20.2.2014. She submits that the interim orders are not precedents and, therefore, this Court is not bound to follow the interim order passed in Special Appeal No. 1632 of 2013. She submits that it appears that the facts of the csae in the aforesaid special appeal appears to be different inasmuch as, the interim order was granted in the said special appeal in view of the law laid down by the Full Bench of this Court in the case of Dhanpal and others Vs. State of U.P. reported in 2013 (8) ADJ 723 (FB) in which it has been held that Adhikari Pariksha up to the year, 2008 is equivalent to high school. She submits that in the case of Dhanpal (supra), the Full Bench of this Court has not held that even the forged certificate of Adhikari Pariksha up to the year 2008 shall be treated to be valid. Findings 8.	I have carefully considered the submissions of learned counsel for the parties. In the order dated 20.2.2014 as reproduced above, this Court has prima facie found the certificate of the petitioner to be forged and, therefore, granted him time to explain. In paragraph 8 of the second supplementary affidavit filed today, the petitioner has stated that the aforesaid lacuna is a typographical and inadvertent error on the part of the issuing authority. This paragraph has been sworn on personal knowledge. It has not been explained that how the petitioner has personal knowledge of alleged typographical mistake said to have been committed by the alleged officers of the University. Thus the averments of para 8 of the second supplementary affidavit is incorrect. 9.	Sri Siddharth Khare has invited the attention of the Court to the contents of paragraph 9 of the second supplementary affidavit filed today, in which it is stated that the certificate of the petitioner is genuine as it has been certified by the Ex-Registrar of the Gurukul Vishwavidyalaya, Brindavan, Mathura vide letter dated 22.2.2014. This letter filed as Annexure No.4 to the second supplementary affidavit is reproduced below 
 
xq:dqy fo'ofo}|ky;] o`Unkou
 
vk;Z izfrfuf/k lHkk m0 iz0 y[kuÅ }kjk lapkfyr
 
GURUKUL VISHWAVIDYALAYA VRINDABAN-281121 (INDIA)
 
dzekad& G.V.V./718						fnukad& 22.2.2014
 
izs"kd]
 
	iwoZ dqylfpo xq:dqy fo'ofo|ky; o`Unkou] eFkqjkA
 
lsok esa]
 
	eq'rkd mYyk iq= Jh vter mYyk 
 
	fNiVgjh ckankA
 

 
fo"k; % vad i=ksa ds lR;kiu ds lEcU/k esa %&
 
izekf.kr fd;k tkrk gS fd eq'rkd mYyk iq= Jh vtey mYyk us vf/kdkjh ijh{kk o"kZ 1997 vuqdzekad 19861 us xq:dqy fo'ofo|ky;	o`Unkou	ls izFke Js.kh esa mRrh.kZ fd;k gSA dk;kZy; vfHkys[kksa ls feyku djus ij lgh ik;k x;kA
 
							
 
								Hkonh;ß 10.	Perusal of the aforesaid letter shows that it bears dispatch no. GVV/718 dated 22.2.2014 and has been issued by some one as Ex-Registrar . The name of the person who issued the certificate neither appears in the certificate nor has been disclosed in the supplementary affidavit. Even if it is assumed for a moment that this certificate has been issued by some Ex-Registrar yet it is surprising that how and under what authority an Ex-Registrar can issue such a certificate. Apart from this on the left hand side at the top of this letter, monogram of the University is printed while below the signature a stamp bearing seal of the State Government containing name of the University has been affixed. These circumstances are clear indications of the fraudulent conduct of the petitioner and also of the ingenuineness of this paper. The Vice Chancellor of the Gurukul Vishwavidyalay, Vrindavan, Mathura, on being asked by the respondent authorities to verify the mark sheet and the certificate of the petitioner, communicated vide letter dated 22.5.2013 followed by letter dated 23.10.2013 that the said mark sheet and certificate of adhikari Pariksha 1997 produced by the petitioner are forged. Thus, the mark sheet and certificate of Adhikari Pariksha submitted by the petitioner to obtain employment have been correctly held by the respondents to be forged and fabricated. 11.	So far as the contention of Sri Siddharth Khare that the petitioner could have been removed from service, only after initiating the disciplinary proceeding is concerned, this Court is of the view that once the appointment has been obtained on the basis of forged certificates, the impugned order cannot be held to be illegal. 12.	The jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is an extraordinary and discretionary jurisdiction, which cannot be exercised in the facts and circumstances of the case. 13. In the case of United India Insurance Company Ltd. V. B.Rajendra Singh and others , JT 2000(3)SC.151, considering the fact of fraud, Hon'ble Supreme Court held in paragraph 3 as under : 14. 	In the case of Vice Chairman, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and Another Vs. Girdhari Lal Yadav, 2004 (6) SCC 325, Hon'ble Supreme Court considered the applicability of principles of natural justice in cases involving fraud and held in paragraphs 12 and 13 as under : "15. Commission of fraud on court and suppression of material facts are the core issues involved in these matters. Fraud as is well-known vitiates every solemn act. Fraud and justice never dwells together. 16. Fraud is a conduct either by letter or words, which induces the other person, or authority to take a definite determinative stand as a response to the conduct of former either by word or letter. 17. It is also well settled that misrepresentation itself amounts to fraud. Indeed, innocent misrepresentation may also give reason to claim relief against fraud. 18.A fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and consists in leading a man into damage by willfully or recklessly causing him to believe and act on falsehood. It is a fraud in law if a party makes representations which he knows to be false, and injury ensues therefrom although the motive from which the representations proceeded may not have been bad." 19. In an action of deceit the plaintiff must prove actual fraud. Fraud is proved when it is shown that a false representation has been made knowingly, or without belief in its truth, or recklessly, without caring whether it be true or false. A false statement, made through carelessness and without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, may be evidence of fraud but does not necessarily amount to fraud. Such a statement, if made in the honest belief that it is true, is not fraudulent and does not render the person make it liable to an action of deceit. 13. In view of our findings aforementioned that the respondent was guilty of an act of fraud, in our opinion, the Central Administrative tribunal as also the High court committed a manifest error in setting aside the order of the appointing authority as also the Appellate Authority." (Emphasis supplied by me) 15. In the case of Ram Chandra Singh Vs. Savitri Devi and others , 2003(8) SCC 319, Hon'ble Supreme Court held in paragraphs 15, 16, 17, 18, 25 and 37 as under : (Emphasis supplied by me) 16. In the case of S.P. ChengalVaraya Naidu (dead) by L.Rs Vs. Jagannath (dead) by L.Rs and others, AIR 1994 SC 853, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held in para 7 as under : (Emphasis supplied by me) 17. In the case of Jainendra Singh Vs. State of U.P. , 2012 (8) SCC 748, Hon'ble Supreme Court considered the fact of appointment obtained by fraud and held in para 29.1 to 29.10 as under : (Emphasis supplied by me) 18. In the case of Ram Chandra Singh Vs. Savitri Devi and others , JT 2005 (11) SC 439, Hon'ble Supreme Court has elaborately considered the meaning of the word fraud and its effects and held in para 15 to 34 as under : 21. In Bigelow on Fraudulent Conveyances at page 1, it is stated : 22. It was further opined: 23. Recently this Court by an order dated 3^rd September, 2003 in Ram Preeti Yadav v. U.P. Board of High School & Intermediate Education and Ors. reported in JT 2003 (Supp. 1) SC 25 held: In S.P. Chengalyaraya Naidu v. Jagannath [(1994) 1 SCC 1] this Court stated that fraud avoids all judicial acts, ecclesiastical or temporal." 24. An act of fraud on court is always viewed seriously. A collusion or conspiracy with a view to deprive the rights of the others in relation to a property would, render the transaction void ab initio. Fraud and deception are synonymous. 25. In Arlidge & Parry on Fraud, it is stated at page 21: 26. Although in a given case a deception may not amount to fraud, fraud is anathema to all equitable principles and any affair tainted with fraud cannot be perpetuated or saved by the application of any equitable doctrine including res-judicata. 27. In Smt. Shrisht Dhawan v. Shaw Brothers , it has been held that: 28. In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath [(1994) 1 SCC 1] this Court in no uncertain terms observed: 29. In Indian Bank v. Satyam Fibres (India) Pvt. Ltd. , this Court after referring to Lazarus Estates (supra) and other cases observed that 'since fraud affects the solemnity, regularity and orderliness of the proceedings of the Court it also amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court, that the Courts have inherent power to set aside an order obtained, by practising fraud upon the Court, and that where the Court is misled by a party or the Court itself commits a mistake which prejudices a party, the Court has the inherent power to recall its order". 30. It was further held: 31. In Chittaranjan Das v. Durgapore Project Limited and Ors. , It has been held: 32. Keeping in view the aforementioned principles, the questions raised in these appeals are required to be considered. The High Court observed that the application of intervention filed by the appellant purported to be under Order XXVI, Rules 13 and 14(2) and Order XX, Rule 18 was not maintainable as they do not confer any power to court for setting aside a preliminary decree on the ground that it was obtained by practising fraud. But once the principles aforementioned are to be given effect to, indisputably the court must be held to have inherent jurisdiction in relation thereto. 33. In Manohar Lal Chopra v. Raj Bahadur Rao Raja Seth Hiralal , the law is stated in the following terms: 34.In Sharda v. Dharmpal , a three-Judge Bench, of which both of us are parties, held that directing a person to undergo a medical test by a matrimonial court is implicit stating:"