Petitioner - National Investigation Agency (hereinafter

'NIA') is knocking at the doors of Writ Court grieving

against the order dated 22.09.2021 (Annexure K) issued by

the 2nd Respondent - Unique Identification Authority of

India (hereinafter 'UIDAI') whereby, requisition dated

26.08.2021 for disclosure of information of Aadhar Card

registration in respect of private respondent nos. 3 - 14 has

been turned down in light of the bar enacted in section 33 of the Aadhar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other

Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (hereinafter

2016 Act). 2. After service of notice, the answering first

respondent having entered appearance through the learned

Assistant Solicitor General opposes the petition making

submission in justification of the impugned rejection of said

requisition. Learned ASG contends that, the information in

question being classified as personal to the individuals

concerned, without a sanction order at the hands of this

Court, cannot be parted with whoever be the requisition

authority. 3. BRIEF FACTS: (b) The rescued girls revealed their identity as to

Bangladesh nationality and they having been trafficked to

India by the private respondent herein, on the false 8 promise of employment in India; these girls were initially

sent to Kolkata where fake Aadhar Cards were generated

and thereafter they were forced to prostitution in other

parts of the country. Some of the accused were arrested

and taken to custody by the police in connection with the

registered crime in question. (c) The Home Ministry of the Central Government

having regard to the gravity of the offences and also to

their international & inter-state ramifications entrusted the

matter to the petitioner-agency for investigation in exercise

of power u/s. 6 r/w Sec.8 of the National Investigation

Agency Act, 2008 vide order dated 12.07.2021, pursuant to

which petitioner re-registered the F.I.R. in

R.C.No.16/2021/NIA/DLI on 13.07.2021. (d) The preliminary investigation revealed that the

arrested accused namely respondent nos.12 to 14 and

absconding respondent no.3 along with other private

respondents have been actively engaged in human

trafficking of Bangladeshi women and they have been

running brothels in Bangalore and other places. 9 Accordingly respondent nos. 4 to 11 came to be arrested on

25.07.2021 and presently they are lodged in judicial

custody. It is stated that six women and one girl child were

rescued from the brothel. (e) The investigation also brought to light cross

border trafficking of women and harbouring of trafficked

women on the Indian side by generating fake Aadhar Cards,

PAN Cards, Driving Licences, Ration Cards & such other

documents by perpetrating fraud, forgery & fabrication. It

also revealed of threat to life & limb of these poor victims

lured to India by false promise of employment. During the

raid, numerous incriminating documents and mobile phones

were also seized. After completion of investigation, the

Charge Sheet has been filed by the petitioner-NIA on

06.09.2021. Several fake addresses have been discovered

after interacting with the Post Master General, Karnataka

and the owners of the premises concerned. (f) In order to unearth the larger conspiracy,

petitioner felt the need of ascertaining the genuineness of

the information and documents that led to generation of 10 Aadhar Cards & PAN Cards and therefore had requisitioned

certain information & documents from the UIDAI vide letter

dated 26.08.2021 which has been turned down by the 2nd

respondent vide impugned reply dated 22.09.2021

expressing its inability to accede to the request in view of

statutory bar in Sec.33 of the 2016 Act. Aggrieved thereby,

petitioner-Agency is grieving in writ jurisdiction. 4. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties

and having perused the petition papers, this Court is

inclined to grant indulgence in the matter as under and for

the following reasons: section(5) of section 28 or sub-section (2) of
 section 29 shall apply in respect of any 11 disclosure of information, including identify
 information or authentication records, made
 pursuant to an order of a court not inferior to
 that of a [Judge of a High Court]:Provided that
 no order by the court under this sub-section
 shall be made without giving an opportunity of
 hearing to the Authority [and the concerned
 Aadhaar number holder]..." (b) Hon'ble Madras High Court in Crl.O.P 193/2020

between The Deputy Superintendent of Police vs. The

Deputy Director, Unique Identification Authority of India disposed off on 21.04.2022 having scanned the provisions

of this section has observed at paragraphs 7 & 8 as under: (a).... (b)....... . . . (n). "Identity Information" in respect of an
 individual, includes his Aadhaar number,
 his biometric information and his
 demographic information; 8. If the Aadhaar Card itself is not
 genuine, it is open to the respondent to inform
 the petitioner herein that the Aadhaar 12 Card is a fake document and not issued
 by them. By refusing to furnish the details
 sought for by the investigating agency which is
 permissible under law and not against the
 direction issued in the Judgment of Supreme
 Court, the due process of investigation of a
 serious crime gets stale. The reason of the
 respondent to refuse information to the
 petitioner herein is not justified as the
 information sought for is for investigation of
 crime." Similarly, Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Crl.MC 3314/2021

between The State, Govt. of NCT of Delhi vs. Unique

Identification Authority of India decided on 20.01.2022 at

paragraphs 5,6, & 9 has observed as under: (c) The protection of privacy rights & information lying in

the domain of 2nd Respondent - UIDAI is confined to the

cases of 'residents' as defined u/s 2(v) wherein genuine

data is stored & authentic documents like Aadhar Cards, are

generated. This becomes clear from the provisions of

Chapter VI 2016 Act which deal with security &

confidentiality of information and restriction on sharing such

information. The provisions of Sec.33 have been structured

as an exception inter alia to the provisions of Sections 28 &

29 inasmuch as they authorize sharing of information &

documents on 'an order of a Court not inferior to that of a

Judge of a High Court'. True it is, that before such an order

is made, an opportunity of hearing needs to be afforded to

the 2nd respondent -UIDAI. Accordingly, such an 14 opportunity has been given. Had it been intent of the

Parliament that the persons concerned should also be heard

before sharing their information, such a provision would

have been made in the Act itself. The conspicuous absence

of such a provision in the Act, presumably is because of

legislative wisdom to that effect vide 'expressio unius est

exclusio alterius' whose near literal translation is: the

explicit mention of one thing is the exclusion of the other.

Insisting upon consent of the persons whose information is

sought for, can be metaphorically equated to mosquitoes

insisting upon consent for combat against malaria. Even

otherwise, the private respondents have chosen to remain

unrepresented, one of them fleeing justice and therefore

being shown as 'absconding'. (d) India and Bangladesh being a party-States have

ratified the SAARC CONVENTION ON PREVENTING AND

COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN WOMEN AND CHILDREN FOR

PROSTITUTION, 2002. The said Convention which intends

to eradicate the evil of human trafficking has to be kept in

view when construing the provisions of a Statute like the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 & the Aadhar 15 (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies,

Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 . The International

Covenants which have been ratified by India are binding to

the extent that they are not inconsistent with the provisions

of domestic law. Such Conventions/Covenants can be

relied upon by the Courts while construing the statutes

which have kinship with the subject matter vide SAFAI

KARMACHARI ANDOLAN vs. UNION OF INDIA1 , at

paragraph 16. (e) It is pertinent to mention that a Five Judge

Bench of the Supreme Court of United Kingdoms in BASFAR

vs. WONG2 while treating a case of 'modern slavery'

(human trafficking) in the light of similar convention, i.e.,

Palermo Protocol observed that, even defence of diplomatic

immunity does not readily avail. This shows the enormous

importance that the Nation-States do attach to the

investigation of cases of human trafficking and to the

prosecution of offenders. It hardly needs to be repeated

that the case set up by the petitioner-NIA before this Court

for securing the information & documents inter alia relates 1 (2014) 11 SCC 224 2 2022 UK SC 20 16 to cross border human trafficking and forcing the vulnerable

women from Bangladesh, to prostitution. That being the

position, this Court has to direct the 2nd respondent to

furnish to the petitioner the requisition

documents/information forthwith. In the above circumstances, this writ petition

succeeds; a Writ of Certiorari issues quashing the impugned

endorsement dated 22.09.2021 issued by the 2nd

respondent at Annexure-K; a Writ of Mandamus issues to

the 2nd respondent to furnish to the petitioner all

information & documents/records as sought for in the

subject requisition or as may in addition be hereafter

sought for. The petitioner-NIA shall not use the subject

information & documents for any purpose alien to

investigation of the offences and prosecution of the

offenders. Time for compliance is ten days from the date a

copy of this order is produced. Costs made easy. Sd/- JUDGE

Snb/