SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Indian Courts gagging whistleblower
DATE: 2023-01-13
SCORE: 23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/10ayrfs/indian_courts_gagging_whistleblower/

--- POST TEXT ---

Last week I caught a glimpse of Anuradha Vs Bajrangi \[CS(OS) 67/2020\] before Delhi High Court. This is quite something of a case and was reported in media in 2021:

[India’s ‘Panama Papers’ on shell firms, tax loopholes gather dust](https://www.dailypioneer.com/2021/page1/india---s----panama-papers----on-shell-firms--tax-loopholes-gather-dust.html)

In short a whistleblower got hold of some explosive data of the famous International Tax law firm Nishith Desai Associates (NDA) which revealed how tax havens such as Mauritius and Cayman Islands were being used to evade taxes in India and launder money. He shared this data with Prashant Bhushan who then filed complaints with ED, CBDT and the Black Money SIT.

NDA, on getting to know of this, used its influence with the judiciary and directly approached a judge of the Delhi High Court and instituted a super confidential suit against the whistleblower. The suit was instituted directly in the chamber of the judge, under pseudonyms, a confidentiality club was formed (I didn’t know such a thing existed) and an ex-parte order was pronounced by the judge in his chamber without anyone other than NDA aware of the order. This ex-parte order empowered NDA to raid the house of the whistleblower and seize all his electronic devices and search through them, delete whatever it wanted to. It also barred the whistleblower from talking about this to anyone, including the media and investigation agencies. He was barred from sharing the data with anyone. Even the High Court registry was not made aware of this suit.

After about a year, The Pioneer published the story mentioned above. NDA immediately moved a contempt petition against the whistleblower alleging that he had gotten the story published in The Pioneer. Last week the judge passed an order in that contempt petition. It dismissed the contempt petition when the whistleblower gave a statement that he was not behind publishing of the news story. The judge, while dismissing the contempt application, again gagged the whistleblower from talking to anyone about this or to share the data with anyone. The whistleblower protested that since he had already shared the data with the investigation agencies, and because the data reveals massive tax evasion, in public interest he should be allowed to co-operate with the investigative agencies. The judge allowed that exception. The whistleblower also said that he also wish to reach out to media and it is in public interest that this massive tax evasion gets reported in the press. However the judge refused to allow him to speak with the media.

Isn’t it the duty of the courts that the crooks are booked? Shouldn’t such crimes against our country be published in the media so that the public becomes aware of it and there is pressure on the agencies to do something? Or should the courts let themselves be abused for protecting criminals? Should the whistleblowers be empowered or should they be trampled and gagged? 

**Disclosure:** I am connected to this story as the same data also revealed breach of ethics at my previous employer Deloitte, and I had blown the whistle while I was employed there. I also faced retaliation for being a whistleblower and eventually had to quit. My story has been captured in my blog, link to which is in my Reddit profile and is some of my posts.