SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Personal Loan Harassment - Need Survival Advice
DATE: 2022-01-19
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/s7ulwr/personal_loan_harassment_need_survival_advice/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was a salaried Individual in a decent company, took a personal loan from Bajaj FinServ, 3 years ago and didn't miss a single payment for 1 year, for the last 1 year after I lost my job due to the pandemic i am not able to make payments and I have been taking a lot of app loans just to clear the Bajaj EMI fearing their harassment as they don't even give one month time and are brutal visiting my house, abusive words, humiliation etc. and 6 months ago I changed my address, closed my active bank account and left to a different city where I don't have any address proof and trying to do a day job with daily wages which gets credited to my newly opened canara bank account which still has the permanent address registered (The one I abandoned). I switched off my phone too as the harassment was too much and even If I want to make the payments, I am earning only 25% of the EMI to be paid on a monthly basis which barely is sufficient for 2 meals a day. (I got pauper due to investing in shares after losing my job and losing the entire 10 Lakhs loan, Every month EMI - Just interest alone is 12500/- and I am working now for 500 rupees daily wages and barely surviving. The only identity I have still remaining is my AADHAR card and staying in a small hostel and surviving somehow. Pandemic has created a life ending moment for me and I am just trying to come out of it. Tried ending my life 4 times unsuccessfully. Now with the new phone number and bank account which is no where linked to my current city or address, can Bajaj finance still track me and harass me ? Do I have to live my entire life in fear or do I have an option to start fresh by any chance ?

I know I have been foolish in making bad decisions and taking loans for survival and trying to push hard to somehow come out of it, now after struggling for 6 months with no place to stay and inadequate food and the constant fear of getting caught, I don't have the interest to live. Its easy to say face it like a man, but I feel I have lost that strength and courage… Requesting some advise..