The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has deactivated over 25 million Aadhaar numbers belonging to deceased persons to date as part of a pan-India Aadhaar database clean-up, Minister of State (MoS) for Electronics and Information Technology Jitin Prasada informed Parliament on February 4.

The Centre said the move is part of a broader effort to maintain the accuracy and integrity of the Aadhaar ecosystem, and to prevent identity fraud as well as the misuse of welfare funds.

“In case of the death of a person, it is essential that his or her Aadhaar number is deactivated to prevent potential identity fraud or unauthorised usage of such Aadhaar number for availing welfare benefits,” Prasada said in the Lok Sabha.

Pertinently, this development comes only a few months after India Today disclosed that UIDAI had managed to deactivate just 11.7 million Aadhaar numbers linked to deceased persons since the digital identity network began more than 15 years ago. In contrast, official records indicate that more than 160 million people died during this period.

The Centre has highlighted that the location where a death is registered may differ from the address listed on the individual’s Aadhaar card, making synchronised deactivation efforts all the more important.

To fully understand the current deactivation drive, one must examine the specifics of the process. UIDAI issued revised guidelines in August 2023, detailing the mechanism for Aadhaar deactivation based on death records shared by the Civil Registration System (CRS).

As per these guidelines, death records are first matched with the Aadhaar database. There must be a name-match accuracy of at least 90% and a 100% gender match for an Aadhaar number to be marked for deactivation.

If both conditions are fulfilled, UIDAI conducts final checks to ensure the Aadhaar number was not used for biometric authentication after the recorded date of death. If no post-death activity is detected, the Aadhaar number is successfully deactivated.

However, the UIDAI performs further verification if there is any activity after the recorded date of demise. If a deactivated Aadhaar number is later used for authentication, the system alerts the individual, asking them to visit an Aadhaar centre or a UIDAI Regional Office for biometric verification before reactivation.

Separately, the myAadhaar portal rolled out the “Reporting of Death of a Family Member” feature in June last year, allowing relatives to voluntarily report deaths.

In addition to deactivating Aadhaar numbers of deceased persons, the Government has rolled out several other measures to prevent identity fraud involving Aadhaar. These include:

1) Biometric Lock/Unlock: This feature allows individuals to “lock” their biometrics, which the Centre says is a major step towards preventing unauthorised authentication attempts.

2) Face Authentication: This now includes “liveness detection” to ensure the physical presence of the beneficiary.

3) Offline Verification: UIDAI promotes the use of Aadhaar Secure QR Code, Aadhaar paperless offline e-KYC, e-Aadhaar, and Aadhaar verifiable credentials for offline verification.

4) Secure Data Storage: This mandates the use of Aadhaar Data Vaults by all requesting entities to store Aadhaar numbers in encrypted form.

The Government says these measures contribute to ongoing “database sanitisation”, which includes regular de-duplication and deactivation of Aadhaar numbers belonging to deceased persons.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event