The Delhi High Court has issued a John Doe order against websites copying RummyCircle’s design and content, following a plea from the platform’s parent company Games24x7. According to a report by Inc42 , the company claimed that certain websites were unlawfully using the RummyCircle trademark to promote competing rummy platforms or illegal gambling sites. They would also show a fake RummyCircle page to deceive users before redirecting them to illegal gambling and casino sites, including creating replicas of the platform’s design and testimonials.

The Delhi HC observed that the fake websites clearly violated Games24x7’s rights and ordered them to not use RummyCircle’s trademark or the names of of Games24x7’s founders in any way. It also ordered the offending websites to be taken down.

A John Doe order is a type of legal order that allows an entity to take legal action against unknown parties.

The Delhi HC had issued a similar John Doe order in support of Razorpay in July this year. The payment aggregator had moved the court complaining of social media accounts which misrepresented themselves as Razorpay recruiters, offering part-time jobs promising extra income in exchange for deposits and making other false promises. The court prohibited the unknown parties from using the “Razorpay” trademark without authorisation.

Just last month, ZEE Entertainment Enterprises Limited (ZEEL) had secured an extensive ‘Dynamic+’ John Doe order from the Delhi HC against websites pirating its content. A dynamic John Doe order allows ZEEL to inform the government or Internet Service Providers (ISPs) of offending websites, instead of requiring court approvals for every newly identified instance of piracy. A Dynamic+ order covers both existing and future copyrighted works.

The Delhi High Court granted India’s first John Doe order in 2002 in the case of Tej Television Limited v. Rajan Mandal.

However, some John Doe orders have received criticism as they circumvent a provision in the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 , which mandates the identification of defendants. The ambiguity could pose a risk of infringing on free speech.

In 2016, the Bombay High Court declined two John Doe orders, stating that it found the reliefs to be overbroad as they covered entire websites.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event