Scammers acquiring SIM cards through fraudulent means will have their Facebook and WhatsApp accounts suspended, revealed CEO Rajkumar Upadhyay, from the Center for Development of Telematics (C-DOT). The moment fraudulent SIM cards are identified, “We disconnect their WhatsApp profile, we disconnect their Facebook profile, we disconnect their bank accounts, we freeze their bank accounts so that they don’t come up in the system,” stated Upadhyay. This information was presented at the AI for Good conference on May 31, organised by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), which is part of the United Nations.

Upadhyay was speaking about the way AI can be used to prevent cyber fraud and revealed that C-DOT is using an AI-based Facial Recognition System (FRT), titled ASTR, to weed out fraudulent sim card subscriptions. According to the CEO, criminals often procure SIM cards through forged documents and use them to defraud people, indicating a need for a system to detect fraudulent SIM subscriptions. According to the presentation, ASTR uses “next-gen facial recognition” to detect fraudsters with multiple connections or forged documents, thereby ensuring a trusted mobile ecosystem.

Upadhyay presented a “typical cyber-fraud cycle” which involved criminals procuring SIM Cards using forged documents, which is followed by the creation of fake social media profiles and even bank accounts. The cybercriminals then swindle money out of somebody, often leaving the police struggling. “When the police reach out to them, actually they are not there, because they have taken this connection in somebody else’s name, using somebody else’s photo, using somebody else’s document. So it is very, very difficult to actually reach out to them. Millions of such frauds are happening every day, and people are being duped for money,” he said. Oftentimes, even the point of sale for the SIM card is complicit in the crimes.

ASTR is presented as a solution to this problem. Standing for Artificial intelligence and facial recognition powered solution for telecom sim subscriber verification, the system processes the photos taken when buying a SIM card and detects the number of connections the person has taken alongside the different names and addresses they were registered under. According to an Indian Express article, the system was conceptualised by the Department of Telecommunications’s (DoT) Haryana unit in 2021, and works on the database of SIM subscriber faces DoT acquires from telecom operators. Essentially, the system processes an individual’s face, looks up if there are more than nine connections against a single individual’s photograph and searches if the same person has taken SIMs under different names.

“In Hindi, ASTR means weapon. This is a weapon against the cyber fraudster,” he explained. The system groups the results according to commonalities in different connections, i.e., same face but different names or different addresses. He gave the example of a person that had acquired 59 SIM cards, under 29 separate names and forged documents.

According to Upadhyay, the system has so far analysed 1.34 billion connections and discovered 6.7 million suspected fraudulent connections, out of which 5.9 million have already been disconnected. Almost 71,000 points of sale have been blacklisted, with a total of 2255 FIRs filed against both individuals and points of sale. He particularly pointed out the Mewat region of Haryana, where fraudulent SIMs were said to have gone from 4.96 lakhs to a mere 65 within a year, allegedly because of ASTR.

Responding to an audience question, he stated that while there was no alert review mechanism to prevent false positives, C-DOT doesn’t disconnect connections by itself. Instead, they flag a suspected fraud to the government, which in turn alerts the telecom operator who then demands a KYC from the government. According to Upadhyay, at this step, the scammers don’t come back to complete the KYC and the connection is terminated.

Throughout his presentation, the C-DOT CEO stressed the importance of tackling cyber criminals across multiple mediums and through multiple platforms. He pointed out that even if a SIM card has been disconnected, the individual may still have access to the bank accounts and social media profiles they created. The system notifies police, banks and social media companies like Meta regarding such individuals and their accounts are suspended, while the police file an FIR. Medianama has reached out to Facebook and WhatsApp and received no response. However, IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw confirmed in 2023 that Whatsapp cooperated with the government in blocking accounts linked to fraudulent phone numbers identified through AI.

He also spoke about other C-DOT platforms like Chakshu, where citizens can report scam calls and messages, Sanchar Sathi, a platform where citizens can check the connections taken out in their name and disconnect fraudulent ones, CEIR, which was used to trace fraudulent mobile phones and ICDR, which is a registry of IMEI numbers. C-DOT also apparently uses a “Digital Intelligence Platform” that combines all of these inputs together to come up with a comprehensive list of fraudulent connections. The list is then shared with banks.

ASTR also has a number of different uses, from identifying missing persons and dead bodies to preventing duplication of IDs and “identifying anti-social elements”. Upadhyay did not elaborate on the last part.

FRT is considered by many to be an invasive and unreliable technology that is unfortunately proliferating throughout India. Just recently in February, the Indian Railways announced plans to install FRT CCTV cameras across 44,038 coaches in the country. The cameras would record people going in and out of every coach and search their faces against a database of suspects and criminals. This development drew harsh criticism from privacy rights organisations. The Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), wrote a letter to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, stating “The risks and potential for misuse associated with surveillance tools like CCTV cameras and FRT [facial recognition technology] far outweigh its benefits, if any,” and argued that such CCTV surveillance inside trains infringes upon the privacy of the masses without satisfying any of the Puttaswamy criteria.

Furthermore, there are serious concerns about the accuracy of such surveillance mechanisms. MediaNama had previously covered an incident where a Delhi resident’s father was unable to get a replacement SIM card because his face did not match the photo taken during the original SIM’s purchase, 15 years ago. This demonstrates the ineffectiveness of ASTR in detecting age-related changes in facial data, directly contradicting Upadhyay’s statement that the algorithm can identify faces even after 40 years have passed. Even the Delhi police’s own FRT system has an 80% accuracy rate at best. This is even more worrying considering that Upadhyay did not confirm the existence of a review mechanism to detect false positives.

To be fair, C-DOT apparently does not have the authority to disconnect SIM subscriptions by itself instead they flag it to the telecom operators, who then begin a KYC process. However, one fails to see how this would be effective in weeding out scammers. A person who has already acquired a SIM card and possibly even a bank account through forged documents can easily pass a KYC requirement from telecom operators. After all, if you can forge documents once, why can’t you do it twice?

Another serious concern is the security of the database. Last month , the Tamil Nadu Police’s FRT database was breached, exposing the information of over 50,000 persons. Such instances raise doubts about the ability of the Indian government to protect the sensitive personal information of citizens.

Last year, Medianama published an explainer on ASTR and raised five questions, which are still relevant today:

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event