This Appeal has been filed under Section 117-A of the Patents Act,

 1970, aggrieved by the rejection order dated 22.06.2020, refusing to grant

 patent to the appellant on the ground that the so claimed invention of the

 appellant is not patentable as it is hit by Section 3(k) of the Patents Act,

 1970. 2.The appellant claims that as seen from the Patent Application filed

 by the appellant before the respondents, it is clear that a technical

 contribution has been made by the appellant as the invention of the appellant

 pertains to 'Cryptography on a simplified elliptical curve', which according to

 the appellant is a unique invention. According to the appellant, the invention

 of the appellant for which patent has been sought for is illustrated in the

 following manner: Efficient algorithms for inserting arbitrary values using
 elliptial curves are probabilistic. Therefore, the
 implementation time of such algorithms is not constant. It is a
 function of the message to be encoded. Thus, if an attacker
 determines different implementation times of the applied
 algorithm, it can obtain information on the encoded message.
 In order to mask the time used by a probabilistic insertion
 algorithm, it is possible to add unnecessary steps in the
 algorithm so that its application always spreads over a time
 period of the same length, regardless of the processed
 message'. 3.By using the above method and in order to mask the time used by

 the probabilistic insertion algorithm, the appellant claims that its invention is

 a technical contribution, made by the appellant and therefore, the reason for

 refusing to grant patent to the appellant's invention as seen from the

 impugned order is a total non-application of mind to the nature of invention

 for which patent was sought for by the appellant. 3/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023 4.Counter affidavit has been filed by the respondents reiterating the

 contents of the impugned order. 5.Learned counsel for the appellant drew the attention of this Court to

 the European Guidelines for examination of patent as well as the Guidelines

 framed by the Indian Patent Office for examining computer related

 invention. He would submit that it has been made clear in those guidelines

 insofar as the technical contributions of a patent seeker is concerned, the

 same will not fall under the category of inventions that are not patentable

 under Section 3(k) of the Patents Act, 1970. 6.The reason given by the respondents for refusing to grant patent in

 favour of the appellant is that being a mere "technical effect" adopted by the

 appellant, the question of granting patent to the appellant will not arise and

 if the same is granted, it will be in violation of Section 3(k) of the Patents

 Act, 1970. According to the respondents, since a mathematical formula has

 been adopted by the appellant, which has resulted in the appellant's so

 claimed invention, the question of granting patent to the appellant does not 4/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 arise in view of the statutory bar under Section 3(k) of the Patents Act,

 1970. 7.One more reason given by the respondents for refusing to grant

 patent in favour of the appellant is that the appellant has adopted "business

 method" for the purpose of claiming invention, which is not permissible

 under law as per Section 3(k) of the Patents Act, 1970. 8.Learned counsel for the appellant would further submit that insofar

 as the reason given by the respondents that the appellant's so claimed

 invention merely adopts a mathematical formula is concerned, he drew the

 attention of this Court to the CRI Guidelines, more specifically to Clause

 4.5.1 and would submit that since the invention of the appellant specifies a

 practical application, though the appellant has adopted a mathematical

 formula, the finding rendered by the respondents under the impugned order

 that encryption/decryption system is not permissible under law as per Section 3(k) of the Patents Act, 1970 is arbitrary and not in accordance

 with law. According to the appellant, this case falls under one of the 5/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 exceptions and the respondents ought not to have held in the impugned

 order that all inventions pertaining to encryption/decryption is not

 patentable. Learned counsel for the appellant also drew the attention of this

 Court to the European Guidelines for examination of patents applications

 and would submit that insofar as the technical applications, where technical

 contributions of a mathematical method is sought to be patented, are

 concerned, it is clear from the same that those technical contributions are

 patentable even in case of encryption/decryption. Therefore, the learned

 counsel for the appellant would submit that by total non-application of mind

 to the guidelines for examination of patent applications and by a non-

 speaking order, the respondents have passed the impugned order. He also

 drew the attention of this Court to the hearing notice issued by the

 respondents prior to passing of the impugned order and would submit that in

 the said hearing notice, it is seen that there was no reference to business

 method, which is not patentable under Section 3(k) of the Patents Act, 1970

 but despite the same, the respondents have included that reason as well for

 refusing to grant patent. 9.Learned Standing Counsel for the respondents reiterated the 6/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 contents of the impugned order and would submit that the case of the

 appellant falls under the category mentioned in Section 3(k) of the Patents

 Act and therefore, according to him, rightly, the respondents have refused to

 grant patent to the appellant under the impugned order.

 Discussion: 10.According to Section 3(k) of the Indian Patent Act, mathematical

 processes and computer programs per se are explicitly excluded from being

 eligible for patent protection. The section above has undergone modifications

 and has been shaped by amendments and court rulings about the

 patentability of software-related innovations.

 THE 2002 AMENDMENT

 The inclusion of the word ‘per se’ in Section 3(k) of the Patents

 (Amendment) Act, 2002 was intended to clarify the patentability

 requirements for computer programs. Previously, the Act did not allow for

 the patenting of computer programs without any restrictions. The change

 made in 2002 included the term ‘per se’ to indicate that while computer

 programs are not eligible for patent protection, software innovations may be

 eligible for patents if they exhibit a ‘technical application’ or a ‘technical 7/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 impact.’ Consequently, the amendment implemented the technical effect test

 as a criterion for determining the eligibility of software for patent protection. 11.As seen from the impugned order, the contentions of the appellant

 as raised in this appeal have neither been considered in accordance with the

 guidelines for examination of patent applications (CRI) nor a speaking order

 has been passed. The invention for which the appellant seeks for patent is

 'cryptography on a simplified elliptical curve'. 12.According to the appellant, to prevent hacking of the coded

 message transmission, a unique invention through a simplified elliptical

 curve has been invented for which patent is sought for by the appellant.

 According to the appellant, the steps for the said invention exhibits a

 technical effect, as it requires only two terms of the equation remaining to be

 checked in order to decide which of the two terms correspond to a squared

 term in Fq, thereby enabling to determine a point on an elliptical curve in a

 manner suitable for use in the field of cryptography. According to the

 appellant, the steps of the method achieve an innovative technical effect,

 which is to allow a determination requiring a constant time regardless of the 8/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 input parameter 't', as the number of required operations is the same and also

 achieve an improved efficiency as the number of demanding operations is

 reduced, thereby resulting in improvement in calculation performance, while

 not allowing any attack linked to the execution time of the cryptographic

 calculation. 13.However, as seen from the impugned order, the contentions of the

 appellant, as referred to supra, were not considered by the respondents.

 There is an exception to Section 3(k) of the Patents Act,1970 and as per the

 said exception, if the appellant's so claimed invention is a technical

 contribution made by them, the invention is patentable. The very same

 contention was raised by the appellant before the respondents. But, however,

 as seen from the impugned order, it has not been considered as no reason

 has been given under the impugned order as to why the contentions of the

 appellant has to be rejected. The European Guidelines as well as the Indian

 Guidelines pertaining to Patent Applications also make it clear that

 inventions involving technical contributions in computer related field are

 patentable. The relevant clauses in both the aforesaid Guidelines are

 re-produced hereunder: 9/18 - optimising load distribution in a computer network; - determining the energy expenditure of a subject by
 processing data obtained from physiological sensors;
 deriving the body temperature of a subject from data
 obtained from an ear temperature detector; - providing a genotype estimate based on an analysis of
 DNA samples as well as providing a confidence interval
 for this estimate so as to quantify its reliability; - providing a medical diagnosis by an automated system
 processing physiological measurements. Indian Guidelines
 4.5. Determination of excluded subject matter relating to
 CRIs: What is important is to judge the substance of claims taking
 whole of the claim together. If any claim in any form such as
 method/process, apparatus/system/device, computer program
 product/computer readable medium falls under the said
 excluded categories, such a claim would not be patentable.
 However, if in substance, the claim, taken as whole, does not
 fall in any of the excluded categories, the patent should not be
 denied. Hence, along with determining the merit of invention as
 envisaged under Sections 2(1) (j) , (ja) and (ac), the examiner
 should also determine whether or not they are patentable
 inventions under Section 3 of the Act. 4.5.1 Claims directed as "Mathematical Method": Similarly mere manipulations of abstract idea or solving purely
 mathematical problem/equations without specifying a practical
 application also attract the exclusion under this category.
 However, mere presence of a mathematical formula in a claim,
 to clearly specify the scope of protection being sought in an
 invention, may not necessarily render it to be a "mathematical
 method" claim. Also, such exclusions may not apply to
 inventions that include mathematical formulae and resulting in
 systems for encoding, reducing noise in communications/
 electrical/electronic systems or encrypting/decrypting electronic
 communications. 4.5.2 Claims directed as "Business Method": The term
 'Business Methods' involves whole gamut of activities in a
 commercial or industrial enterprise relating to transaction of
 goods or services. The claims drafted not directly as "business
 methods" but apparently with some unspecified means are held
 non-patentable. However, if the claimed subject matter specifies
 an apparatus and/or a technical process for carrying out the
 invention even partly, the claims shall be examined as a whole.
 When a claim is "business methods" in substance, it is not to be
 considered a patentable subject matter. However, mere presence of the words such as "enterprise", 13/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 "business", "business rules", "supply-chain", "order", "sales",
 "transaction", "commerce", "payment" etc. in the claims may not
 lead to conclusion of an invention being just a "Business
 Method", but if the subject matter is essentially about carrying
 out business/trade/financial activity/transaction and/or a method
 of buying/selling goods through web (e.g. providing web service
 functionality), the same should be treated as business method
 and shall not be patentable. 14.Under the impugned order, the exceptions as highlighted in the

 Indian and European guidelines, which the appellant claims its invention

 falls, has not been considered under the impugned order by a speaking

 order. Insofar as the reason "adoption of business method" given by the

 respondents under the impugned order is concerned, is also not supported

 by a speaking order. Further, it is to be noted that even in the hearing notice

 issued to the appellant by the respondents prior to the passing of the

 impugned order, the said reason was not mentioned to enable the appellant

 to counter the same by filing its objections to the said ground. Therefore,

 being a non-speaking order, necessarily, the impugned order has to be

 quashed and the matter has to be remanded back to the respondents for

 fresh consideration. 15.The other reason given by the respondents, namely, adoption of 14/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 algorithms by the appellant in its so claimed invention is concerned, this

 Court is of the considered view that the respondents have not taken into

 consideration the contentions of the appellant, which are as follows: 16.This Court, after giving due consideration to the contents of the

 impugned order, has to agree with the contentions of the appellant that the

 respondents failed to consider the plea of the appellant that the invention

 claimed by the appellant is not based on set of rules and is not an algorithm. 17.For the foregoing reasons the impugned order dated 22.06.2020

 passed by the respondents, being a non-speaking order with regard to the

 contentions of the appellant as raised in this appeal and on the ground of

 violation of principles of natural justice since the appellant was not put on 15/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 notice in the notice of hearing about the alleged "business method

 contention", is quashed and the matter is remanded back to the respondents

 for fresh consideration of the appellant's patent application, on merits and in

 accordance with law and this appeal is disposed of by issuing the following

 further directions: No costs. Consequently, connected petition is closed. 12.11.2024

 vga
 Index: Yes/No
 Speaking/Non Speaking Order
 Neutral Citation Case: Yes/No 17/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 ABDUL QUDDHOSE,J. vga

 (T) CMA (PT) No.198 of 2023 and (T) CMP (PT) No.21 of 2023

 12.11.2024 18/18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis