1. The plaintiff has filed a suit for permanent injunction, passing
off, unfair competition, dilution, rendition of accounts and damages
etc. against the defendants. Along with the suit, the plaintiff has also
filed an application for injunction. The matter was listed before Court
on 1st May, 2014 when the summons were issued to the defendants.
In the interim application, after hearing, the Court restrained the
defendants and their family members, partners/promoters, Directors,
servants, agents, franchisees or any one acting for on their behalf
from making, selling, offering for sale, advertising, directly or CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 1 of 53 indirectly dealing in any kind of products with motifs, logos, patterns
and designs being an obvious and fraudulent imitation of the plaintiffs
motifs, logos, patterns and designs on products including Serai,
Periyar, Vrindavan, Lotus, Bali Mynah, Rose Princess and Falcon or
any other such motifs/designs/works of the plaintiff in any manner
whatsoever and doing anything to cause confusion or deception
amongst the consumers. 2. Upon service, the defendants filed the written statement, reply,
counter claim and interim application as well as the application for
vacation of interim orders. By this order, I propose to decide the two
pending applications; one being I.A. No.8010/2014 under Order 39
Rule 1 and 2 CPC and another being I.A. No.13372/2014 under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC . Both parties have made their submissions
from time to time. They have also filed the written submissions in
order to assist the Court. 3. The case of the plaintiff as per plaint a) The plaintiff is a company running renowned chain of retail
 stores and galleries showcasing and selling unique lifestyle
 products which are classy and exclusive in design, style, pattern,
 quality and standard. The plaintiff's stores under the name
 GOODEARTH sells the lifestyle, home making products and
 décor items which are exclusively designed at the creative house
 of the plaintiff Company by a specialized creative team and are
 unique. b) Defendants are engaged in the illegal acts of imitating the unique
 motifs, pattern, art works and designs of the plaintiff and
 applying the same in various permutations and combinations on
 their products for sale and thereby are directly engaged in illegal
 acts of passing-off, unfair competition and dilution. The
 defendant No.1 was working as a Design Consultant with the
 plaintiff company on retainership basis. The plaintiff is the
 originator, inventor and owner of the said motifs, pattern, designs
 and piece of art and the plaintiff is seeking restrain orders by
 way of present suit before this Court against the defendants who
 are adopting and using visually, structurally and deceptively
 similar motifs, pattern, designs and piece of art of the plaintiff
 and selling their products with the impugned design on their
 website www.indiacircus.com are clearly violating plaintiff's
 rights. The defendants' such acts constitutes passing off, unfair
 competition and dilution. c) The plaintiff is the original creator, inventor and owner of various
 designer collections including SERAI, PERIYAR, VRINDAVAN,
 BALI MYNAH, LOTUS, ROSE PRINCESS and FALCON and
 have been using the same on a wide range of products. The
 plaintiff is also the registered owner of copyrights in the art works
 of Periyar, Vrindavan and Lotus collections under the Designs
 Act, 2000 . d) A comparison of the motifs, pattern, art works and designs of the
 plaintiff and the impugned articles visually, structurally and CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 3 of 53 deceptively similar look, art works, pattern, design and get up
 being sold by the defendants on their website
 www.indiacircus.com are reproduced in para 5 of the plaint. e) The defendant No.1 was working as a Design Consultant with
 the plaintiff company on retainership basis and had been
 associated with the plaintiff for almost 2 years. It is submitted
 that during these years of employment, the defendant No.1 had
 no rights in any of the art-work, motifs, patterns, designs he
 worked upon or dealt with in any manner whatsoever in as much
 as all the rights therein vested with the plaintiff company only.
 That in the year 2012 he left the plaintiff company and thereafter
 is providing for sale of identical patterns that too in relation to
 identical range of products on the website www.indiacircus.com
 with a malafide intent to encash upon the goodwill/reputation of
 the plaintiff. He had been employed with the plaintiff-company
 since 10th May, 2010 and since then his association was
 renewed from time to time. That the contract with defendant
 No.1 was renewed for the last time on 1st August, 2012 wherein
 his contract period was extended till 30th September, 2012.
 Thereafter, his contract with the plaintiff company was never
 renewed as per consent of the parties and he had ceased to be
 associated with the plaintiff company. f) The defendants are selling various products with the impugned
 motifs, art work, look, pattern and designs on their website
 www.indiacircus.com. By adopting deceptively similar designs, CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 4 of 53 art works and motifs, the defendants are trying to create
 confusion in the market and encash upon the goodwill and
 reputation earned by the plaintiff over the years. They are
 unfairly competing with the plaintiff by way of adopting the
 plaintiff's unique art features, pattern, motifs and designs and
 using them on their articles. g) The plaintiff-company is in the business of manufacturing and
 selling creative, exclusively designed and unique lifestyle retail
 products such as home, décor, furniture, apparel and other
 related goods and has various retail stores located all across
 India. The plaintiff also has franchise arrangement in other
 countries like Singapore, Turkey and Nepal. The brand
 GOODEARTH is well-known in the world of lifestyle and art. The
 plaintiff has over 9 retail stores in India and an online store under
 the website www.goodearth.in. The plaintiff is the registered
 proprietor of the trademark GOODEARTH in several classes in
 India and abroad by virtue of the prior adoption. h) It is submitted by the plaintiff that the design team of the plaintiff
 creates unique designs with an inspiration from natural beauty
 like botanical images of flowers, leaves, mountain, trees or with
 an inspiration from lifestyles like Mughal images, luxury living
 etc. These motifs, logos, patterns, art-works and designs with
 painstaking efforts are tried in permutation and combinations
 over fabrics, cutlery items, paper items, glass etc. and thus after CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 5 of 53 long process a designed article is conceived and introduced to
 the market. i) The strength of the plaintiff lies in making innovative and catchy
 patterns of designs, keeping in mind the various preferences and
 requirements of consumers across classes. The plaintiff is
 constantly innovating new designs, patterns and motifs to cater
 to the changing needs and tastes of consumers. In fact since the
 beginning of the year 1996, the plaintiff has attained a turnover
 of around Rs.91 crores for the Financial Year 2012-2013. j) The plaintiff created, conceptualized and designed various
 designs including SERAI, PERIYAR, VRINDAVAN, LOTUS,
 BALI MYNAH, ROSE PRINCESS and FALCON to be used on
 various products including bath sheets, table cloths, mugs,
 bowls, teapots, etc. under their GOODEARTH'S Collection. The
 aforesaid collections are one of the most famous collections of
 GOODEARTH. k) The products of GOODEARTH have been extensively written
 about in various press articles, magazines and news letter. The
 public at large recognize the unique products of the
 GOODEARTH with them owing to their classy and memorable
 art work. Various such articles discussing the plaintiff's range of
 products and their popularity in the market are being filed with
 the present plaint. l) Plaintiffs' products are even sought after by foreign tourists who
 have heard about the plaintiffs due to the unparalleled reputation
 which has spilled beyond the geographical boundaries of India.
 The plaintiff's design house at Khan Market (Delhi) is visited by
 foreign tourists on a daily basis. The reputation of the
 plaintiff has travelled both by being covered in print
 media and by word of mouth due to the high quality and
 enormous effort put into the designing of the products. The
 products of the plaintiff are also used extensively for gift
 purposes. m) The defendants through their website www.indiacircus.com are
 allegedly providing for sale of various products including cushion
 cover, mugs, bed sheets etc. with the motifs, art works, patterns,
 designing and prints which are a blatant copy of the plaintiff's
 creativity. Undoubtedly, the defendants are subsequent adopters
 of the said motifs, art works, patterns and design and
 are using the same in respect of identical products range
 as that of the plaintiff in gross violation of the plaintiff's
 rights. n) The defendants allegedly being in the similar business marketing
 various products in India, are obviously well aware of the
 worldwide reputation of the plaintiff. The sole endeavour of the
 defendants is to ride on the goodwill created by the plaintiff in its
 well known designs including Serai, Periyar, Vrindavan, Lotus,
 Bali Mynah, Rose Princess and Falcon Cushion to be used on CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 7 of 53 various products including bath sheets, table cloths, mugs,
 bowls, teapots, etc. Infact three designs of the plaintiff, i.e.
 PERIYAR, LOUTUS and VRINDAVAN are registered designs of
 the plaintiff under the Designs Act, 2000 . o) The defendants by creating confusion in the market thereby
 attempting to passing off its designs as that of the plaintiff
 thereby not only violating valuable common law rights of the
 plaintiff but also causing substantial loss and damage to the
 plaintiff's business and reputation at large. p) Since the purchase of the impugned products of the defendants
 is done online, the buyers are often confused with the products
 sold by the defendants as that of the plaintiff as the bare look of
 the products with the impugned design looks exactly the same.
 As the buyers do not have the opportunity to physically see and
 inspect the quality of the product when they purchase the same
 through the website, they are easily deceived as and when they
 receive the products as the same is not of the quality and
 standard that is maintained by the plaintiff company. q) The proliferation of identical motifs, logos, patterns and designs
 would lead to complete tarnishment and blurring of the plaintiff
 company's goodwill which would be irreparable and un-
 compensable in the form of damages. The intention of the
 defendants is to ride piggy back on the success of the plaintiff
 company's motifs, logos, patterns and designs. Such acts of
 unfair competition are also liable to be injuncted. Defence 4. As already mentioned, the defendants have filed the reply,
written statement, counter claim as well as application for vacation of
the interim order. The defence and all pleas raised by the defendants
are common in the pleadings, the same is narrated as under: The plaintiff is aware of the same and hence it is not even
 the case of the plaintiff that the said design has been registered
 by them under the provisions of the said Act. However, the
 plaintiff is not claiming any right on the basis of registration of the
 said design, thus no case for infringement has been made out. The said design is of a princess with a rose in her hand. The
painting which is not on display but available on the web site of the
Art Institute of Chicago. The design of the defendants apart from a
princess with a rose has various other features and combination of
colours. In view of the aforesaid there is no way that the plaintiff can be
heard to say that the plaintiff is the creator of the said design. The CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 12 of 53 plaintiff is aware of the same and hence it is not even the case of the
plaintiff that the said design has been registered by them under the
provisions of the Design Act . As the plaintiff is not claiming to be the
registered owner of the said design, no case for infringement of
design or passing off is made out. The design of the plaintiff demonstrates that the same consist
of two palm trees. A part of the design of the defendants also
consists of Palm trees but there is a distinct difference even as far as
the palm trees are concerned. The leaves of the palm trees in the
design of the plaintiff and that of the defendants are of a different
style. The design of the defendants apart from two palm trees has
various other features like the elephant, flowers and a jail window and
combination of colours. An identical painting of two palm trees is also
available on wayfair.com called the Tropical Dance III by Megan CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 13 of 53 Duncanso. A design of a palm tree cannot be said to be a new or an
original design or a design which has not been disclosed to the public
anywhere in India or in any other country by publication in tangible
form or by use or in any other way prior to the application for
registration by the plaintiff. The window in the both the designs is a window as found on
Humanyun's Tomb and various other tombs. No proprietary in
respect of the same can be claimed by the plaintiff. The design of the
Plaintiff has the said window with a picture of an elephant standing in
front of the window. No proprietary can be claimed by the plaintiff
either in respect of the window or an elephant. The design of the
defendants is an inspiration taken from the window which is found on CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 14 of 53 various tombs and an elephant inside the window. The two designs
are not familiar. The two elephants in question are also not identical. A design of a window found in a tomb or an elephant cannot be
said to be a new or an original design or a design which has not been
disclosed to the public anywhere in India or in any other country by
publication in tangible form or by use or in any other way prior to the
application for registration by the plaintiff. In view of the aforesaid, no
case for passing off is made out. E. Design - Lotus: The comparison of the design of the plaintiff and the
defendants demonstrates that there is nothing in common or
identical. There is no lotus in the design of the defendants as found in
the design of the plaintiffs. The design of a lotus flower cannot be
said to be a new or an original design or a design which has not been
disclosed to the public anywhere in India or in any other country by CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 15 of 53 publication in tangible form or by use or in any other way prior to the
application for registration by the plaintiff. F. Design - Vrindavan: The perusals of the design of the plaintiff and the defendants
demonstrate that the two are completely different. The trees in both
the designs are placed differently and the designs of the palms are
also different. The design of the defendants apart from palm tree has CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 16 of 53 various other features like the Gateway of India and people standing
thereon and combination of colours. A design of a tree cannot be
said to be a new or an original design or a design which has not been
disclosed to the public anywhere in India or in any other country by
publication in tangible form or by use or in any other way prior to the
application for registration by the plaintiff. A similar design of Palms
is also available on the website of Exotic India which is a part of a
painting called Akbar and Tansen visit Haridas. G. Design - Bali Mynah: The design of the plaintiff i.e. Bali Mynah, no comparative chart
has been provided by the plaintiff either in the suit or in the present
application but a relief in respect of the same has been claimed. A
perusal of the design of the plaintiff and the defendants demonstrates
that there is nothing in common. The plaintiffs have not made out any
case in the plaint or the present application as to what is the
infringement committed by the defendants. In any event it is not the CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 17 of 53 case of the plaintiff that the said design in question has been
registered by them. So far as the claim of the Plaintiff regarding passing off is
concerned, merely imitation and the similarity would not be sufficient
and unless the intention to pass off is established the case of passing
off is made out. The defendants have their own website
www.indiacircus.com where the products of the defendants are sold.
Any person buying the products manufactured by the defendants
from their website will always be aware that they are buying the
products of the defendants. 5. It is stated on behalf of the defendants that the website of the
defendants is www.indiacircus.com where as the website of the
plaintiff is www.goodearth.in. It is stated that there cannot be any
confusion in the minds of a person who is browsing the said two
websites. A person browsing the website of the defendants will be
well aware that the products shown therein are the products of the
defendants. The defendants are not selling their products in the name
of the plaintiff or in any other name which is identical to or similar to
the name of the plaintiff or one which would cause confusion and or
deception amongst the consumers. 6. The defendant No.1 is a free lance professional with the
signature design style in retail industry and the plaintiff had employed
the defendant as a consultant on retainership basis. The defendants
have denied that they are using visually or structurally or deceptively
similar motifs or patterns or designs or piece of art as that of the CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 18 of 53 plaintiff as alleged or at all and selling those products on their website
or it constitutes passing off or unfair competition or dilution. 7. It is admitted that the defendant No.1 was working on
retainership basis with the plaintiff, however along with it the
defendant no.1 was working with many other companies as well as
Design Consultant. The work and designs in respect of which
disputes have been raised by the plaintiff are not new or original and
has been disclosed to public in India and in other countries by
publication much prior to the plaintiff. The designs of the plaintiff as
well as the defendants draw inspiration from art work available since
centuries; hence neither the plaintiff nor the defendants can claim any
right over the same. There are several other companies and persons
dealing in similar kind of business as the plaintiff and the defendants,
just because the defendant No.1 had worked for the plaintiff do not
mean that the defendant No.1 cannot deal in identical business. 8. Reply on behalf of the plaintiff to the defence raised by the
 defendants
 The plaintiff has filed the rejoinder as well as reply to the
application filed by the defendants for vacation of the interim order
already granted on 1st May, 2014. The gist of the same are
mentioned hereunder: After leaving the plaintiff company, the defendant No.1 had
 started designing the products using the same inspiration and
 using it in an identical manner as that of the plaintiff. v) The defendant No.1 being aware of the same is still using the
 said design in order to ride on the goodwill and reputation of the
 plaintiff company and to encash upon the goodwill of the plaintiff
 and to compete with the plaintiff. vi) One of such designs is the PERIYAR design of the plaintiff which
 was created by the plaintiff's team in the year 2003 and the
 defendant No.1 has always been aware of the originality of the
 said design and the rights of the plaintiffs' vesting therein, there
 is no reasonable explanation whatsoever which has been given
 by the defendants in the reply for adopting such identical motifs. vii) The fact that the inspiration of Mughal art and architecture was
 never defendant No.1's style of designing prior to joining the
 plaintiff's Company i.e. May, 2010. The material placed on
 record would shows that the defendant No.1 had not created any CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 21 of 53 designs deriving inspiration from Mughal art and architecture
 prior to starting the defendant No.2 company. The defendant
 No.1 used to create designs deriving inspiration from household
 things, surroundings and even bollywood. In fact, the website of
 defendant No.1, i.e. www.krsnamehta.com shows the designing
 style of the defendant No.1. The entire range of products and
 designs that has been provided on the website are design which
 are inspired from flaura and fauna, surroundings and household.
 It was only after the termination of defendant No.1 that the
 defendant No.1 had started using such inspiration and designs
 identical to the plaintiff's design merely to ride on the goodwill of
 the plaintiff. viii) The defendants stated that they had started the defendant No.2
 company in November, 2011. However, defendant No.1 left the
 plaintiff company only in the year 2012. The defendant No.1 had
 never disclosed it to the plaintiff company that the defendant
 No.1 had started a new company and it was only in the year
 2012 that the defendant No.1 had written an email to the plaintiff
 stating that he had accepted the role of Creative director in the
 defendant No.2 Company. There was a mutual understanding
 between the plaintiff and the defendant No.1 that the defendant
 No.1 would not work independently without seeking prior
 permission from the plaintiff company. Thus, act of defendant
 No.1 is unfair but is also guilty of breach of trust. Print out from
 the website of Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 22 of 53 showing the date of incorporation of the defendant No.2
 company is already placed on record. ix) The defendant No.1 has not only copied the designs of the
 plaintiff Company but is also guilty of copying various other
 successful designs in the market and misappropriating the same
 in trade. An actual instance has been brought to the notice of
 the plaintiff company by way of an email dated 10th July, 2014
 from Mr. Karan, Chief Coordinator of an Export Company
 wherein he showed his concern to the plaintiff about the
 defendant No.1's conduct towards copying their patented system
 and various deigns. The copy of the said email is placed on
 record. 9. It is the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff enjoys substantial
turnover from the sale of the said designs under the brand name
GOODEARTH. The sales turnover of the plaintiff in respect of its
various designs are set out hereunder:- 10. It is submitted that the products of the plaintiff and the
defendants are in fact identical and are sold to the same class of
consumers. The documents filed by the defendants would show that CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 24 of 53 the products of the plaintiff and defendants are sold to the same class
of consumers. 11. It is alleged that the defendants are subsequent users of the
impugned designs and are using such identical designs merely to
ride on the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff. The defendants
have no defense and hence the interim injunction granted in favor of
the Plaintiff on 1st May, 2014 is liable to be made absolute. 12. It is submitted that the plaintiff does not need to file any such
registration certificate as the present suit is a suit for passing off,
unfair competition and dilution of their designs, motifs, patterns and
not for infringement of designs. In a passing off action the plaintiff is
to establish the following ingredients:- 13. It is argued that all the aforesaid conditions are satisfied in the
present suit. It is submitted that the plaintiff enjoys formidable
goodwill and reputation in respect of its unique designs, motifs and
patterns. It is submitted that motifs, logos, patterns and designs of the
Plaintiff have become so popular over the years that the purchasing
public always associates or identifies such designs with the plaintiff
only and no one else. 14. The plaintiff submits that it is not denied that the website of the
defendants is www.indiacircus.com where as the website of the
plaintiff is www.goodearth.in. It is denied that there cannot be any
confusion in the minds of the person browsing the said two websites.
It is submitted that the products of the plaintiff and the defendants are
sold to the same class of consumers and in fact the documents filed
by the defendants would show that the products of the plaintiff and
defendants are sold to the same class of consumers. Further, the
documents filed by the defendants would show that in many of the
magazines and articles, the products of the plaintiff and the
defendants are shown on the same page. Thus, the acts of
defendants are inevitably causing confusion and deception amongst
the consumers. 15. The argument addressed by Ms.Meenakshi Arora, learned
Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the defendants is that the
ornamentation, motifs, jalis etc. allegedly used by the plaintiff as
'layering' on the pre-existing Mughal Designs, are `common place'
design elements such as flowers, lotuses. Mere floral
designs/Ornamentations/jails admittedly taken from nature are not
protectable as they don't satisfy the test of original artistic work, nor is
such right claimed. This Court has held that such elements are not
protectable in Servewell Products Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. vs. Dolphin --
(2010) 43 PTC 507 (Del) -- Para 18 which reads as under:- 16. It is also argued that the protection, as is claimed, is for artistic
work in public domain already published such as the Mughal
Paintings, together with ornamentations, jalis etc. and over which
monopoly cannot be claimed. Allowing a relief of passing off in the
present suit would result in creation of monopoly on artistic works
in public domain which do not have any right of protection. Each
one of the paintings on the cushion covers along with
ornamentations does not have any copyright protection, as more CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 27 of 53 than 60 years have elapsed from the death of the original artists
together with the fact that those have been used as an industrial
design for more than 50 times, as such no copyright protection is
available. Even otherwise, all designs are already published. The
same are without any originality or novelty, they cannot be registered
under Designs Act, 2000 . 17. The impugned products being 'luxury' products, it would
necessarily mean rich/well off persons having the requisite
knowledge to distinguish brand names, and fully knowing that
GOODEARTH products are available exclusively through
GOODEARTH stores, the price difference in the products etc. The
documents filed by the plaintiff to show that the products of the
parties are being displayed next to each other in various interior
decor and fashion magazines are irrelevant. The plaintiff admits that
"the people and customers who are familiar are immediately able to
identify the Plaintiffs products without even without the name being
depicted on it." 18. The following decisions are also referred by the defendants'
counsel: (ii) In Hodgkinson & Corby Limited v. Wards Mobility Services
Ltd., (1995) FSR 169, it was held as under:- (iii) In the same tone, Halsbury (Trade Marks, 4th Ed., 1984
Vol.48, para 187) says that in a passing off action the "degree of
similarity of the name, mark or other features concerned is important
but not necessarily decisive, so that an action for infringement of a
registered trademark may succeed on the same facts where a
passing off action fails or vice versa". As to vice-versa, Kerly says
(para 16.12), an infringement action may fail where plaintiff' cannot
prove registration or that its registration extends to the goods or to all
the goods in question or because the registration is invalid and yet
the plaintiff may show that by imitating the mark or otherwise, the
defendant has done what is calculated to pass off his goods as those
of plaintiff. (iv) In Schweppes Ltd. v. Gibbons, (1905) 22 RPC 601(HL) Lord
Halsbury said, while dealing with a passing off action that "the whole
question in these cases is whether the thing - taken in its entirety,
looking at the whole thing - is such that in the ordinary course of
things a person with reasonable comprehension and with proper
insight would be deceived". Defendant's name on his goods is an
indication of there being no case of passing off. In the present case,
defendant's goods contain the words 'Cadbury' on their wrapper. As
per the principle laid down in Fisons Ltd v. E.J. Godwin [(1976)
RPC 653], the occurrence of the name 'Cadbury' on the defendant's
wrapper is a factor to be considered while deciding the question of
passing off. Similarly in King & Co. Ltd vs. Gillard and Co. Ltd., CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 30 of 53 [22 RPC 327] and Cadbury-Schweppes Pvt. Ltd. vs. The Pub.
Squash Ltd., (1981) RPC 429, it was held that the presence of
defendant's name on his goods was an indication that there was no
passing off, even if the trade dress was similar. The fact that the
defendant's wrapper contains the word 'Cadbury' above the words
PICNIC is therefore a factor which is to be taken into account." (v) In S.M. Dyechem Ltd. vs. Cadbury Ltd. , (2000) 5 SCC 573,
the Supreme Court has held that in a passing off action, additions,
get-up or trade-dress might be relevant to enable the defendant to
escape. In infringement cases, such facts do no assume relevance. (It is pertinent to mention here that the above said decision referred
by the defendants has been overruled by the subsequent judgment of Cadila Health Care Ltd. v. Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , 2001 (21)
PTC 300 (SC)). 19. Lastly, it is argued by Ms.Arora, learned Senior counsel that the
plaintiff is not the "originator, inventor and owner of the said motifs,
patterns, designs and piece of art" for the entire design. The source
of most of the designs is taken from the earlier art work and the same
has been used by the plaintiff for commercial purpose by adopting
and using. Some of the designs used by the defendants are
deceptively similar and they are selling their products with the
impugned designs on their website www.indiacircus.com one of the
modes and mediums of selling the products in the entire world. 20. As far as the decisions referred by the counsel for the
defendants are concerned, the principles of law laid down cannot be CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 31 of 53 disputed. However, it is to be examined whether it is applicable to
the facts of the present case or not. Let me first deal with the aspect
of passing off and unfair competition, the relief claimed by the
plaintiff. 21. It is also recognized principle in common law jurisdiction that
passing off right is broader remedy than that of infringement. This is
due to the reason that the passing off doctrine operates on the
general principle that no person is entitled to represent his or her
business as that of business of other person. The said action in
deceit is maintainable for diverse reasons other than that of
registered rights which are allocated rights under the Act. 21. In the case of Century Traders vs. Roshan Lal Duggar 15(1979) DLT 269 the said aspect to some extent has been
discussed in para 14. The extract of the same reads as under: 22. (i) In the case of Laxmikant V. Patel vs. Chetanbhat Shah CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 32 of 53 & Anr., (2002) 3 SCC 65, the Court in paras 8 and 10 held as under: (ii) In the case of B.K. Engineering Co. vs. Ubhi
Enterprises , 1985 (5) PTC 1, the Court in paras 49, 51 and 52
held as under: (iii) Salmond & Heuston in Law of Torts (20th Edn., at p.395)
call this form of injury as "injurious falsehood" and observe the
same having been "awkwardly termed" as "passing off" says as
under: (iv) As per Kerly (Law on Trade Marks and Names, para 16.16)
passing off cases are often cases of deliberate and intentional
misrepresentation, but it is well-settled that fraud is not a
necessary element of the right of action, and the absence of an
intention to deceive is not a defence though proof of fraudulent
intention may materially assist a plaintiff in establishing probability
of deception. Christopher Wadlow in Law of Passing Off (1995
Edn., at p.3.06) states that the plaintiff does not have to prove
actual damage in order to succeed in an action for passing off.
Likelihood of damage is sufficient. 23. A Full Bench of this Court, in Mohan Lal, Proprietor of
Maurya Industries vs. Sona Paint and Hardwares (supra), has
held "that a design can be used as a trade mark and if by virtue of
its use, goodwill is generated in the course of trade or business, it
can be protected by an action in the nature of passing off." The
relevant findings of this Court are reproduced hereunder:- xxx

 22.1 ...As is obvious, such a passing off action would be
 based on a plea that: the design, which is an unregistered
 mark, was being used by the plaintiff for the purposes of
 business, and that the plaintiff's goods and/or services
 had acquired a reputation and/or goodwill, which were
 identified in the minds of the consumers, by associating CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 36 of 53 the design/the mark, with the goods and/or services. In
 other words, the plea would be that the design which was
 being used as a mark identified the plaintiff as the source
 of the goods supplied or services offered" includes designs which though old in themselves but were new in
their application. (a) In Gammeter Vs. Controller of Patents and Designs (1918)
 ILR 45 Cal 606, the Court had held that the test that has to be CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 39 of 53 applied to see whether a design is new or original or not is that
 the design must be new or original with reference to the kind of
 article to which it is applied. In the said case, the novelty band
 used by the plaintiff was held to be new and original even though
 the said band was similar to the bracelet produced by the
 defendants as the Court was of the view that the purpose and
 use of the band was entirely different from the purpose and use
 of the bracelet. It was further observed that the said band had
 never been previously applied to wrist watches and the fact that
 it had an immediate and lucrative sale strongly indicates that the
 article sold was useful novelty. It was further observed that
 applying an old design to a new use must be protected.
 (Relevant paras 10, 11, 16 17). (b) In Gopal Glass Works vs Assistant Controller of Patents and
 Designs (2007) 1 Cal LT 290 (HC), the Court had observed that
 in order to destroy the novelty of a design registration whether by
 publication or use or any other way, must be of the pattern,
 shape and/or configuration applied to the same article. It was
 further observed that when the novelty of an article is tested
 against the prior published document, the main factor required to
 be judged is the visual effect and appeal of the picture
 illustration. Further, the Court held that such visual effect and
 appeal of the pattern and/or configuration must be considered in
 respect of the article to which it is applied. (Relevant paras 32 to
 38 and 45 to 47). (c) In Bharat Glass Tube Limited v. Gopal Glass Works Limited AIR 2008 SC 2520, the Supreme Court had observed that the
 expression 'new or original' in the context of designs has to be
 construed that whether the said design has ever been produced
 by any third party on that particular article or not. It was held that
 in the registration of a design two things are required to be
 considered together i.e. the design and the design which is to be
 applied to an article. (Relevant Paras 6, 8, 10, 13, 14). (d) In Asian Rubber Industries v. Jasco Rubber 2013 (1) Bom CR
 393, Paras 3, 13, 14, 15 & 19, the defendants had challenged
 the validity of the design of the plaintiff on the ground that the
 said design of the footwear registered by the plaintiff was not
 new or original as the said design was developed from 'Padukas'
 which design has been commonly available since centuries. In
 the said case, the Court was of the view that the plaintiff is not
 claiming to be the inventor of 'Padukas' and is not claiming
 exclusivity by way of a patent right. However, the plaintiff is
 claiming exclusivity in the 'Creative Expression' and the 'Look
 and Feel' of their products. It was further observed that in the
 recent past, it is not known that the said look and feel of
 Padukas with the modification of strap to support the foot has
 been applied by any person to footwear. Thus, application of
 design of Padukas - of its 'Look and Feel', to footwear by the
 plaintiff in the recent past certainly falls within the meaning of
 'Original' as defined in the Act and includes the cases which the CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 41 of 53 old and themselves yet are new in their application (Relevant
 paras 3, 13, 14, 15, 19). (e) In Shiv Prasad Ram Dayal vs. Shyamlal Bhagirath 1962 Cri
 LJ 551, the question that arose before the Court is that whether
 the general 'get-up' of the Katta of Bidis of the accused is a
 colorable imitation of the Katta of the complainant. The relevant
 portion of the said judgment is provided hereunder: 29. It is alleged by the plaintiff that every designer uses an
inspiration to create an aesthetic design. Therefore, what is to be
considered is the creative manner in which the inspiration is used and
the manner in which such designs are applied to the products. Such
inspirations are only used to guide the designers to understand the
theme. In the present case as mentioned in para 11 of the plaint, it is
stated that the plaintiff has created unique and aesthetic designs with
an inspiration from natural beauty like botanical images of flowers,
leaves, mountains, trees or within an inspiration from lifestyle like
Mughal images, luxury living etc. 30. In the present matter, the defendant No.1 being an ex-
employee of the plaintiff company has simply taken the same
inspiration as that of the plaintiff and has used the same in an
identical manner and in respect of identical range of products. 31. Initially, the defendant has argued that the Periyar Design of
the plaintiff is merely a combination of two palm trees and no
exclusivity can be claimed by the plaintiff in respect of the same as
the same is in public domain and is being used by various third
parties prior to the plaintiff. However, now the defendants have
acknowledged the rights of the plaintiff in the said design and have
agreed not to use any design which is similar to the Periyar Design of
the plaintiff. 32. It is submitted by the counsel for the plaintiff that by the order
dated 1st May, 2014, the defendants were injuncted to sell the said
designs in any manner whatsoever. However, the defendants are still
selling the impugned designs on various third party websites. The
printouts of the said websites have been placed on record. 33. The defendants have failed to produce any document or
magazine or any product wherein such designs were used prior to
the plaintiff. There is no force in the submission of the defendants
that they are selling the products under the brand name India Circus
and thus, there cannot be any confusion, as it is argued by the
plaintiff that the defendant No.1 is also selling the impugned designs
on various third party websites wherein the products are not sold
under the mark India Circus but are sold under the name of Krisna
Mehta. The customer may buy such products assuming that such
designs are created by the plaintiff company and Krisna Mehta is still
working as a designer with the plaintiff company. The defendants have not denied the factual position that the
plaintiff apart from its various retail stores, the plaintiff also has a CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 44 of 53 online store under the website www.goodearth.in wherein the
products of the plaintiff are sold as mentioned in para 7 of the plaint.
It is alleged that the plaintiff is also selling their products through
various third party websites. 34. It is evident from the material placed on record that the plaintiff
enjoys goodwill and reputation in respect of its unique designs, motifs
and patterns. The designs of the plaintiff have become so popular
over the years that the purchasing public associate or identifies such
designs with the plaintiff. 35. It is a well settled law that in a passing off action, the plaintiff
has to establish the following ingredients: 36. The reliance placed by the defendants on the judgment of this
Court in Mohan Lal, Proprietor of Mourya Industries Vs. Sona paints & Hardwares (supra) is completely misplaced. In fact the
principle laid down in the said judgment would go in favor of the
plaintiff. Reliance is placed on para 18 of the said judgment . 37. It is the admitted position that the defendant No.1 is an ex-
employee of the plaintiff. The position of law regarding ex-employees
has been discussed in the following cases: for several years" on the goods and advertisements, it was held
 that this did not amount to an assertion that the defendants'
 goods were the goods of the plaintiffs. (iv) In Arthur Fairest v. Fairest (1949) 66 RPC 275 defendant, a
 former managing director of the plaintiff company set up a similar
 business and used one of the vouchers issued by the plaintiff
 company in which his name was printed as managing director.
 Injunction was granted restraining the defendant from using the CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 46 of 53 vouchers as it amounted to a representation that the business
 carried on by the defendant was connected with the plaintiff
 company. (v) In Glenny v. Smith (1865)2 Drew & Sm 476, defendant was an
 employee of the plaintiffs, Thresher, Glenny & Co. of 152,
 Strand. After leaving their service he opened a shop in Oxford
 Street and placed on the shop windows the words "from
 Thresher & Glenny", the word 'from' being in very small letters.
 Injunction was granted to restrain the defendant from using the
 name of the plaintiffs. (vi) In the case of J.K. Jain and Ors. Vs. Ziff-Davies Inc. 2000 (56)
 DRJ 806, where the subject matter of the suit were four titles
 used with respect to magazines, the basis of the plaintiff's suit is
 that the defendants/appellants were its licensee for publishing
 computer magazine under the trade mark "PC MAGAZINE
 INDIA" under a license agreement. As per the license
 agreement the appellants specifically agreed and acknowledged
 the copyright and trade marks of the plaintiff, not to exercise its
 rights under the agreement or otherwise claim any right or
 interest in trademarks beyond the rights given in the
 agreement. After the license stood terminated, the
 defendants/appellants started publishing four magazines,
 contrary to the terms of license. The Court on the issue of
 whether the words "PC", "WEEK", "MAGAZINE", "COMPUTER",
 "SHOPPER", "USER", "INTERNET", are descriptive or general CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 47 of 53 words, observed that as an ex-licensee, appellants were
 estopped from claiming that the mark was descriptive since the
 appellants under the terms of the agreement were unable to
 challenge the proprietary rights of the respondents trade mark or
 trade name on any ground. It was held that after termination of
 the license the very act of the Defendant/Appellant in publishing
 the four titles is contrary to the terms of the licence. 38. As far as similarity of two products of the parties is concerned,
it is very apparent that most of the products used by the defendants
are almost similar. The defendants have used these products
subsequent to the use of the plaintiff. Only explanation is given by
the defendants that since they are already prior published, thus they
are entitled to use the same. It is not denied by the defendants that
the products which are used by the plaintiff for merchandise goods
were even commercialized by any third party prior to the use of the
plaintiff and if both products are placed side by side, there would not
be any confusion and deception. The decisions referred by the
defendants do not help the case of the defendants in the facts of the
present case. 39. Even otherwise, with regard to colour combination, get-up and
layout, there are numbers of decisions in which the law has been laid
down that if a party intentionally tries to copy the design on the
commercial articles, the rightful owner may obtain an interim order by
filing a suit for passing off or infringement of copyright. (i) In the case of Vicco Laboratories v. Hindustan Rimmer,
Delhi , reported at AIR 1979 Delhi 114 the case of the plaintiff before
Court was that the plaintiffs have been marketing the cream in a
collapsable tube of 3 different sizes which has the distinctive get up
etc. The collapsable tube has red background with floral design in
yellow colour under the trade mark 'Vicco Turmeric Vanishing Cream'
in the carton as well as tube in yellow strip in the bottom. The case
against the defendant was that they have been marketing the
vanishing cream in the carton and tube which are a colourable
immitation of the plaintiff's carton and tube under the trade mark
'Cosmo'. This court granted the injunction against the defendant and
held at para 13 as under:- and "Cosmo" used by the plaintiffs and defendants
 respectively are no doubt different and the mark "Cosmo"
 by itself is not likely to deceive but the entire get up and
 the colour scheme of the tube and the carton adopted by
 the plaintiffs and the defendants are identical in every
 detail and are likely to confuse and deceive the customer
 easily. The get up and the colour scheme of the plaintiff''
 adopted in every detail by the defendants for their tube
 and carton cannot be said to have been adopted by the
 defendants unintentionally." (ii) In the case of Nova Ball Bearing Industries vs. Mico Ball
Bearing , 19(1981) DLT 20, it has been held at para 7 as under:- would reveal that two cartons are exactly similar in size,
 colour scheme and get up, the only difference that the
 trade mark of the defendants is written at 5 places and
 that of the plaintiff at 3 places. The two cartons bear such
 a close resemblance that they can easily confuse and
 deceive a customer." (iii) In Cases and Material on Trade Mark and Allied Laws, Vol.I at
Page No.969, Muller & Phipps International Corporation &
another v. Anita Cosmetics & another, following observations are
made at para 5 page No.971:- (iv) In the case of Sodastream v. Thorn cascade Co Ltd.,
reported at 1982 RPC 459, the plaintiffs were marketing the gas
cylinders of grey colour under their trade mark 'Sodastream' and the
defendants having also been marketing their black colour cylinders
under their own trade mark 'Thorn Cascade', the proposals of the
defendants to refill the grey colour gas cylinders of the plaintiff, even
with their own trade mark amounts to passing off as the grey colour
cylinder is distinctive of the plaintiffs in respect of which the reputation
accrued in favour of the plaintiffs. Interlocutory injunction granted. (v) In another case reported in 1972 RPC 1, Hoffmann-La Roche
& Co. A.G. v. D.D.S.A. Pharmaceuticals Limited, the plaintiffs
manufactured and marketed chlordiazepoxide in distinctive black and
green capsules bearing the word "Roche" on each capsule, the
defendants also marked and advertised the drug chlordiazepoxide in
black and green 10mg capsules which were identical to those of the
plaintiffs except that they bore the letters "DDSA" instead of the
plaintiffs' name. The plaintiffs were granted interlocutory injunction to
restrain the defendants from passing off capsules of the patented
drug as the goods of the plaintiffs. It was held that marketing of the
capsules by the defendants is almost identical to those of the
plaintiffs was calculated to cause damage to the plaintiffs. It was
further held that there was a likelihood of confusion as both the
capsules contained the same drug. The public were not concerned
with the identity of the manufacturing of the capsules as long as the
capsules contained the same substance and had the same effect. 40. In the case of confusion and deception, one has to take into
consideration people who have what is called imperfect recollection. In the case of Parle Products (P) Ltd. vs. J.P. & Co., Mysore ,
AIR 1972 SC 1359 in para 8, the Supreme Court held as under : 41. Considering the above said facts and law laid down by various
Courts and after having gone through the entire gamut of the matter
as well as comparing the products of the parties, I am of the
considered view that the product used by the defendants in relation to
the design of Falcon, Rose Princess, Serai, Vrindavan are almost
same to the products of the plaintiff. The defendants have failed to
assign any explanation as to why they have adopted and used the
product in similar designs for commercial purposes and in relation to
the same business. Therefore, the interim order pertaining to the
same is made absolute by disposing of both interim applications. As
the products used by the defendants in relation to the design of Lotus
and Bali Mynah is concerned, the design of the product are dissimilar
substantially, the ex-parte order is accordingly vacated pertaining to
them. However, the defendant is restrained from using the titles Bali
Mynah and Rose Princess in relation to the similar business as that CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 52 of 53 of the plaintiff. However, they are entitled to use the said titles in
respect of different activities and unconnected field of activities. With
regard to Periyar design, the use of the same is given by the
defendants during the course of arguments. 42. Both the applications are accordingly disposed of. No costs. List the matter before the Joint Registrar on 21st August, 2015
for completion of admission and denial of the documents. (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
JUNE 29, 2015 CS (OS) No.1234/2014 Page 53 of 53