SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I seriously need help
DATE: 2025-03-26
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1jjsufd/i_seriously_need_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

18 yr old male here preparing for my btech college entrance exams. I'll start from the beginning i was always a bright kid from 11th, i had the best physics in my coaching batch and as any avg jee aspirant who is serious sacrificed a lot of things like family functions, festivals etc etc also i dont mean to brag in any way(not that i have any confidence left in me now) i was good looking and tall so a lot of girls tried to approach me, i used to turn that down too, so that i can stay focused. Sounds good till now right? Now here's where the fun starts, first let's begin with the childhood trauma during 8th i found some chats on my father's phone texting another woman. I read through them and it took me like a second to understand my dad is cheating on my mom with a colleague, as someone in 8th i ofc did not know how to react to it so i stayed silent and kept praying that one day all of this will end on its own, but it obviously did not. In 9th std my mom found out, what followed was 2 years of continous fight bw my mom and dad over this, it was the covid period so i couldnt even leave the house for a while. That still gives me major nightmares, my mom and dad are now back together and honestly they are going good, they love each other more than before and went to psychatrists and therapists after this (i did not,i wanted them to take me too but they never asked and i never did too), now before anyone starts writing anything about mom and dad ill let you know that they might have not been a good husband and wife but they were the best Mom and dad i couldve asked for more on that later. Now in 12th i was sleeping like 4hrs a day and working like a donkey every single day. But on the 1st attempt i got tge dreaded 27 january session 1 2024 shift, which was a blunder from NTAs side which resulted in 99 percentile being given at 250, even after scoring a decent score of 176 i just got 95 percentile which as a general male gives you nothing. Usually 99 percentile is at 160-170. But after that test i met a girl and it was instant love, she was the first girlfriend i ever had, we were in the same coaching batch. Things went fine for like 4 months till then i decided to take a drop but she got around 93.3 percentile which was just 0.1 more than the qualifying cutoff, she got a decent branch at igdtuw and i was really happy for her, as she was my 1st ever i never knew how to talk to a girlfriend, what things to say etc etc. She belonged to a really rich family, her dad owns like hotels. So after she got a seat, she broke up with me out of nowhere, it fucking destroyed me again, but our last call ended on a good note, i cried a bit but at the end it was all good. I statrted focussing on the drop yr, but this time enrolled in an online course, so i was just there at home alone. Atleast in coaching i had friends. I did the best i could but still got 91 perc in my first attempt this jan, my dad said that he dosent carw about the marks all he cares for is that i show conviction and honesty( thats why hes the best). But this holi after being cutoff from rest of my coaching friends i decided to meet them, there i got to know that my ex has been telling everyone including our mutual friends and her now friend that i was leaking her private images and thats reason for our breakup. I fucking deleted those photos the very night we had that last call. At the end of the day all a person has is his honour and she just ruined mine. Many of my friends are even refusing to talk to me, theres only 5 guys including my cousin who believe in me. My mother had all the reasons to leave my dad 4 yrs ago but she stayed due to me, what if i am not able to stand on their belief? There are still some entence exams left most notably being BITSAT which is now my aim, but all of these things going on with me arent helping me, i dont know what to do, i had confidence and was always charimatic, so much so that my teachers in 8th used tk complain to my mom that i have too many friends, now i have no one.