SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [Long read] I got dumped by a Marwari Jain girl, again.
DATE: 2022-07-11
SCORE: 89
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/vwhdzz/long_read_i_got_dumped_by_a_marwari_jain_girl/

--- POST TEXT ---

I (29 y/o Gujarati Hindu) [was in a relationship with a Marwari Jain girlfriend](https://np.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/d4bxjq/girlfriend_being_held_captive_by_fraud_for_forced/) for 2.5 years but she got forcefully married to someone else by her parents. It was traumatic and I vowed not to date or marry anyone again. 2.5 years later, I gave up to pressure from my parents and family and agreed to an arranged marriage. While my parents were looking for a girl with their traditional methods, I signed up on Tinder and Bumble hoping to find someone on my own, someone who's emotionally damaged like me (don't mind even if divorced) and wants to get married for the heck of it.

A few months pass, and then I match with this girl on Tinder in March 2022. She doesn't have even her full picture on the bio - just her name and a loop video of eyes, but I thought what's there to lose, and being curious, I swipe right. It turns out, she's in a similar emotional condition and that makes me very interested in her. She was married but had separated from her husband six months after marriage, living with her parents from 3.5 years. Hadn't divorced, though, thinking what's the point because she doesn't want to ever marry again. Also, a part of her wanted her husband to suffer by not remarrying. She was harassed by the guy's whole family insanely and even pressurized for dowry. They threw her out of home twice, yet her parents sent her back both times, even agreed to a condition from the guy's family to never see her again and not pin any responsibility on them in case she committed suicide. The third time they threw her out, they finally never sent her back.

This girl was also a Marwari Jain (30 y/o). We both instantly hit it off, being very similar in thoughts and experiences. But I told her what I've been through and don't have it in me to face it again. She still wanted to try, saying she won't let me down like the previous girl and will fight for me no matter what. Still, I didn't agree and said we should just be friends. Two-three days went like this and she kept on saying again and again not to separate and give it a shot. Eventually, I fell for her so much that I agreed. I did warn her, though, that I'm opening my heart to her knowing how it would kill me if I got attached to her and she didn't live up to her commitment. She said she will fight for us.

A few days later, she told her mom about me. Mom was against us from day one and told her to call it off and stop dating. Now, this is a girl who had never once in her life gone against her parents for anything or anyone. A typical highly "sanskari" Marwari Jain girl, and that too doing everything her parents say not because that's the norm, but because she truly worships her parents like God. Mom's shocked by her stubbornness as days pass and one day she asks her "usne kuch khiladiya hai kya tuje?," meaning if I've done some witchcraft on her! She ignores her and continues dating. Tells dad she's ready to file a divorce and they start the procedure.

Two months pass by... we've really gotten close now. This is the first time she's in a relationship, btw. Wasn't the first time for me, but even I hadn't gotten this close with anyone before this quickly. It was like we had been together for 2-3 years by now. Meanwhile, her family gets a marriage proposal for her from a guy whose wife died of some illness a few days ago. Guy belongs to their community and religion and doesn't have a kid. They're immediately interested, express interest, and lie to the guy that their daughter is interested in him. She refuses her dad after knowing this, and when asked why, her mom tells her dad about me. Puts on a fight in an avatar her parents have never seen. Dad threatens her that he will commit suicide if she marries me. Even he asks her if she ate anything given by me, thinking I did some black magic on her!

She had promised me earlier that she won't marry any other guy or even meet one in case her parents pressurized her. If things got worse, she'd run away with me, she promised. I didn't buy it initially because I knew her love for her parents triumphed everything in the world, but sometime later she expressed she was fed up with convincing mom and said she will try just for some more time to convince but if the parents still don't agree then she'll go ahead and make that move with no regret. She said please never leave me, that's all I ask from you. Once dad threatened to kill himself, she flipped and said can't do that anymore. I feared she'd flipped initially, but I had started to believe her after a while. But it turns out her parents did have that power over her.

For a week, she didn't eat anything... just relied on a glass of milk and some glucose drink. Gets so weak, loses 3 kg or more, can't stand for long, needs medicines - that bad. Tries to convince dad all this time and once dad does agree to think about it once she's divorced. However, the very next day, he refuses and says forget about it, impossible! So, she continues trying to convince more this way. Her dad has an eye condition for which he has been told not to take any stress or he might go blind if things get worse. She had told me this well before randomly. While all this is happening, dad's eye condition actually gets affected (and she wasn't taking his word for it, the damage was visible, too) and she fears something will happen to him. Still tries to convince him, but at the end of the week, on June 11, 2022, gives up at night after seeing her dad's condition worsen. Tells me over a text that she's sorry and everything but she's it's dad's eyesight and life vs. our love. Her dad and one of her brothers (she has two brothers and one sister, all younger) don't let her speak on call and told her she won't be getting her phone (which she bought with her own money as her dad even though rich wouldn't pay for one) or sleeping alone from tonight. Both of us feared this was the last time we were talking. This was the same date three years ago (June 11, 2019) my previous girlfriend had met me for the last time and said there's nothing that can be done anymore.

Around 9:30 the next day morning, June 12, 2022, I thought I should give one last shot and try to convince her sister to convince her parents. The younger sister is married and was against us from the beginning, because of me not being a Jain. Still, I thought what's there to lose anymore! I only had her Instagram account username.

I didn't want to message from my Instagram account from which I used to talk with my girlfriend, fearing her sister would come to know the username and tell it to her parents, killing any potential chance of us talking there again. So, I created a new account and sent her sister a follow request. I couldn't just message her directly, because anybody at her place could find it questionable. That's why I sent her a follow request and thought the second I get a notification she accepted, that's when she'd be online and I could message her. I didn't have any followers and following on the new account, and didn't want it to look like spam and fear being ignored. Also, I foolishly thought she still didn't know my name as my gf had kept it a secret until her dad asked got to know about me and asked my details. So, I created a username which had my name in it, along with the name of my gf, so she'd know who and related to whom. Fearing my account still may look like a fake profile and get ignored, I set a picture of me and my gf as the display picture of the profile. Just a normal picture sitting together.

Instead of accepting my follow request, gf's sister immediately calls her family and tells I've created an Instagram account like this. The whole family thinks I created it to blackmail my gf and them and I'd put up all our pictures together on it. Gf's dad makes her call me and ask about it. I said yes, I created such an account but to try to convince her sister, not for the purpose they all think. Gf tells me she was again trying to convince her dad since morning 6 o'clock till 9, and her dad had finally agreed to meet me. They all were just about to leave and come to my place to meet me and my family. Everyone else was ready and her dad had just gone to change his shirt when he received this call. In the past, an old friend who she was talking with normally on chat during college days had tried to threaten her that she'd show their chat to everyone and tell them she's his gf. I had told her and assured her I'd never do anything of that sort. Also that I could have done something like that if I was that type of person with my previous gf to save her from being forcefully married, but I never did, never would. She had trust issues because of this but I had told her to have faith in me and that I'd never resort to blackmailing. She knew I was not that kind of a person.

Screw religion. Screw caste. I hate the rigidity and backwardness of our country.

**Tl;dr**: I, a Gujarati guy, fell in love with a Marwari Jain girl again, and got dumped for the same reason - not being Jain.