Online pharmacies Tata 1mg and Pharmeasy have reported that they have completed self-audits on dark patterns as required by the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA). Both companies have not reported any dark patterns in their operations and have expressed their commitment to consumer protection and compliance with regulatory authorities towards this goal.

This comes after the CCPA issued an advisory in June this year, directing a range of digital platforms to conduct internal audits to detect dark patterns within three months. Following this, MediaNama filed an RTI with the CCPA seeking copies of these reports. The authority responded that it had instructed platforms to publicly release their self-audit reports on their own websites. While it did share the names of 25 companies that submitted reports, it did not provide details of what the reports contained. Since the RTI, the CCPA has released copies of 18 self-audit reports.

Dark patterns are user interface designs that trick consumers into making choices that go against their interests. This could involve buying a more expensive product or paying more than the platform initially disclosed. As per the Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) guidelines , the following activities constitute dark patterns:

A LocalCircles report from September this year identified seven or more dark patterns in the medicine and health services sector . Similarly, in August last year , product design firm Parallel and the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) examined dark patterns across online platforms, including those in health tech.

The study looked at Tata 1mg, Pharmeasy, Cure.fit, HealthifyMe, and Practo. It found that health tech platforms exhibited the highest average number of dark pattern instances per app, showing 8.8 out of the 12 dark patterns examined. Four out of the five platforms used false urgency to push users into making decisions quickly.

Users on Reddit have also reported deceptive practices on both Pharmeasy and Tata 1mg. One user said that after placing an order on Tata 1mg, the app asked them to pay an additional amount to the delivery operator because the product price had increased. Another user confirmed a similar experience.

With Pharmeasy, users reported receiving calls from platform sales representatives encouraging them to buy recommended products instead of the medicines they had been prescribed. Another user stated that their order was cancelled without notice after they declined to purchase Pharmeasy’s recommended alternatives.

MediaNama sent the following questions to the two online pharmacies:

Note: The story was updated on November 21, 2025 at 3:17 PM to add the questions sent to both companies.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event