This appeal, by the assessee, is directed against the order of the learned

Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals), Moradabad, dated 14.05.2019, pertaining

to the assessment year 2015-16. The assessee has raised following grounds of

appeal: ITA no. 6348/Del/2019
 Sidharth Narang Vs. ITO 2. No one appeared on behalf of the assessee at the time of hearing. It is seen

from the record that the assessee has not been appearing since 20.01.2021 despite

having been given opportunities. The notice of hearing sent to the assessee through

speed post has been returned with remark "not traceable". Therefore, the appeal is

taken up for hearing in the absence of the assessee and is being decided on the

basis of material on record. 3. The only effective ground is against declining the claim of exemption in

respect of long term capital gain on sale of equity shares of Esteem Bio Organic

Food Processing Limited and making the addition of such long term capital gain

u/s 68 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 ("the Act" in short). 4. Facts giving rise to the present appeal are that in this case the assessee filed

its return of income electronically on 11.08.2015 declaring total income of Rs.

2,87,910/-. Subsequently, the case was selected for complete scrutiny under

Computer Assisted Scrutiny Selection (CASS). Accordingly, notice u/s 143(2) was

issued, which was duly served upon the assessee and thereafter, a notice u/s 142(1) of the Act was issued and in response thereof the learned authorized representative

of the assessee attended the proceedings. The Assessing Officer noticed that the

assessee had claimed long term capital gain of Rs. 34,27,017/- on the sale of shares

of Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Limited. The Assessing Officer, 4 ITA no. 6348/Del/2019
 Sidharth Narang Vs. ITO thereafter, examined the genuineness of this transaction and found that the long

term capital gain claimed to have been earned by the assessee on the sale of shares

of Esteem Bio Organic Food Processing Limited was accommodation entry

arrangement. The Assessing Officer was not satisfied with the source of the capital

introduced and he proceeded to make addition of this amount u/s 68 of the Act.

Thus, the Assessing Officer assessed the assessee's income at Rs. 37,14, 927/-

against the returned income of Rs. 2,87,910/-. Aggrieved against this, the assessee

preferred appeal before the CIT(Appeals), who, after considering the submissions,

sustained the finding of the assessing authority. Now the assessee is in appeal

before this Tribunal. 5. At the outset learned DR submitted that the Assessing Officer has given a

finding of fact regarding genuineness of the transaction. He contended that the

transaction was accommodation entry arrangement. Therefore, the Assessing

Officer was justified in making the addition u/s 68 of the Act. 6. I have heard learned DR and perused the material on record. I find that the

learned CIT(Appeals) has sustained the finding of the Assessing Officer by

observing as under: 7. The above finding of fact of the learned CIT(Appeals) is not rebutted by the

assessee by placing any contrary material on record. Moreover, the assessee has

not furnished any material suggesting that the transaction in question was

genuinely in normal course and was not accommodation entry arrangement as held

by the authorities below. In the absence of any supporting evidence regarding 7 ITA no. 6348/Del/2019
 Sidharth Narang Vs. ITO claim of the assessee I do not see any reason to interfere with the finding of the

learned CIT(Appeals) and the same is hereby upheld. 8. In the result, assessee's appeal is dismissed.

Order pronounced in open court on 19th May, 2022. Sd/- (KUL BHARAT)
 JUDICIAL MEMBER
*MP*
Copy forwarded to: