(17-03-2017) 1. This Miscellaneous Criminal Case has been instituted on an
 application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, filed on behalf of the applicant/accused Neelam
 Vishwakarma. It is directed against the first information
 report dated 12-06-2014 lodged in Crime No.611/2014 by P.S.
 Kotwali, District-Seoni, under Sections 420 , 467 & 468 of the
 Indian Penal Code and Sections 66-C & 66-D of the
 Information Technology Act, 2000. 2. The facts necessary for disposal of this miscellaneous
 criminal case may briefly be stated thus: Applicant/accused
 Neelam Vishwakarma was Quality Monitor in-charge and co-
 accused Amrita Choudhary was Task Manager of Mid-Day
 Meal programme in the office of Chief Executive Officer,
 District Panchayat, Seoni. They were contract employees. At
 the relevant point of time, Smt. Priyanka Das (IAS) was
posted as Chief Executive Officer of District Panchayat, Seoni.
Applicant Neelam Vishwakarma and co-accused Amrita
Choudhary were entrusted with the task of preparing the
note-sheets and formats for sanction and disbursement of the
amounts to various agencies under the Mid-Day Meal Scheme
of the State Government. The computer installed in the room
allotted for the purpose of Mid-Day Meal Programme in the
office of Chief Executive Officer, District Panchayat, Seoni,
was operated by one Sultana Khan. 3. On 15-05-2014, the applicant, in order to cheat, put up a
note sheet and an order for signatures before the Chief
Executive Officer Priyanka Das for sanction and disbursement
of advance amount for preparation of meals in the Middle
School in Development Block, Keolari, for the month of March
and April, 2014. Smt. Priyanka Das signed the note sheet and
it came to her notice that the copies of the order, which were
endorsed to various authorities, already contained her
signatures. It transpired that the applicant and co-accused
Amrita Choudhary had scanned and saved the signatures of
Priyanka Das and her predecessor Sanket Bhondve, in the
computer operated by Sultana Khan. Thus, scanned
signatures were interpolated in the soft copies of the orders
endorsed to various authorities and thereafter print outs were
taken. It was also noted that the scanned signatures of the
Chief Executive Officer were counter signed by either Neelam
Vishwakarma or Amrita Choudhary. On discovering all this,
Priyanka Das immediately encircled her scanned signatures
and put a question mark thereon. Priyanka Das and her
 predecessor Sanket Bhondve had never authorized either
Neelam Vishwakarma or Amrita Choudhary to scan their
signatures and paste them on documents. In any case, it is
grave financial irregularity as use of scanned signatures of an
authority for any purpose is not permissible under the Rules. 4. During investigation, it was found that scanned signatures
of aforesaid two officers were found in 37 files. Scanned
signatures of aforesaid two officers as well as Amrita
Choudhary were also saved in the hard disk of the computer.
When confronted with the aforesaid situation, Neelam
Vishwakarma and Amrita Choudhary admitted that they had
committed mistake and begged to be pardoned. During
investigation, it was found that scanned signatures were
pasted in no less than 84 documents. After investigation, the
charge sheet was filed in the Court. 5. The first information report and the proceedings arising
therefrom have been challenged on behalf of applicant
Neelam Vishwakarma mainly on the grounds that applicant
Neelam Vishwakarma was entrusted with the task of
preparing note sheets etc. and had nothing to do with
scanning of documents with the computers. The first
information report was lodged after a delay of about 1 year.
The computer was being operated by Sultana Khan and the
applicant cannot be charged with scanning, storing and use of
signatures of Chief Executive Officers. Sultana Khan has not
been investigated and has not been joined as co-accused in
the case. 6. Learned counsel for the applicant had laid special
emphasis during the arguments on the fact that applicant
 Neelam Vishwakarma had filed a writ petition No.8053/2014
challenging the orders dated 15-05-2014 and 29-05-2014
removing her from service wherein it was held by the High
Court that no financial irregularity was committed by the
applicant and no loss to the exchequer had been caused;
therefore, the orders removing her from service were
quashed and the employer-respondents were directed that
they are at liberty to pass order for extension of Contract
employment of the petitioner considering all the facts of the
case. 7. It has further been contended on behalf of the applicant
that it is not the case of the prosecution that any amount was
illegally sanctioned or disbursed on account of the scanned
signatures. The amounts were sanctioned and disbursed only
on the basis of the documents which were duly signed by
Chief Executive Officer Priyanka Das and Sanket Bhodwe.
The prosecution has only alleged that the copies of such
orders endorsed to various authorities were found to contain
scanned signatures. As such, there is no allegation that any
loss was caused to the exchequer or any gain was caused to
any person including the applicant. Therefore, even if all the
allegations made in the charge sheet and the documents filed
therewith are taken at their face value, no offence against the
applicant would be made out. Therefore, it has been prayed
that the first information report and the proceedings arising
therefrom, be quashed. 8. Learned Government Advocate for the respondent/State on
the other hand has supported the charge sheet. 9. Having perused the copies of the charge sheet and the
 documents filed therewith as also the case diary of Crime
No.611/2014 and having considered the rival contentions, this
Court is of the view that this petition under section 482 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure must succeed for the reasons
hereinafter stated: 10. In this regard, the judgment rendered by the Apex Court
in the case of State of Haryana and Others vs. Ch. Bhajan
Lal and others , AIR 1992 SC 604, may profitably be
referred to. It has been held therein that the High Court may
exercise powers under Section 226 of the Constitution or Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for interfering
in the proceedings relating to cognizable offences in rarest of
rare cases to prevent abuse of the process of any Court or
otherwise to secure the ends of justice, wherein the
allegations made in the first information report, even if they
are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety, do
not prima facie constitute any offence or make out the case
against the accused. 11. It may be noted here that charge sheet has been filed
under Sections 420 , 467 & 468 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66-C & 66-D of the Information Technology Act,
2000. Now the Court shall proceed to consider each of the
aforesaid offences one by one on the basis of allegations
made in the charge sheet to see whether any of the aforesaid
offences is prime facie made out. 12. Section 420 of Indian Penal Code: 13. The offence punishable under section 420 of the Indian
Penal Code involves dishonesty inducing, delivery of the
property etc. Term “dishonestly” has been defined in section 24 of the Indian Penal Code which reads as follows: 14. In the instant case, the prosecution does not allege that
scanned signatures were used on the documents which
sanctioned or permitted disbursement of any amount.
Though, there was no authorization for use of scanned
signature on any document, it is also not the case of the
prosecution that scanned signatures were found on any of the
documents, original whereof was not signed by the concerned
authority. The case of the prosecution in nutshell is that when
a document sanctioning advance amount for preparation of
Mid-Day Meal was signed by the concerned authority, she
discovered that copies of that documents, endorsed to various
 authorities already contained her scanned signatures. The
copies with scanned signatures endorsed to various
authorities, were placed below the original document which
was submitted for the signatures of the authority. The
endorsed copies were also counter initialed by the applicant.
This tends to indicate her bona fides. If she had intended to
defraud any one, she would not have counter signed such
documents nor would she have placed those copies under the
original documents for them to be discovered by the
authority. 15. Moreover, it is nowhere alleged that by pasting scanned
signatures to any document any wrongful loss was caused to
the exchequer or to any other person nor has it been alleged
that any wrongful gain has been caused to the applicant or to
any other person. 16. In aforesaid circumstances, even if all the allegations
made in the charge sheet and the documents filed therewith
are taken to be true, the dishonest intention on the part of the
applicant is not established even prima facie and the
ingredients constituting offence under section 420 are not
disclosed. 17. Section 467 of the Indian Penal Code: 18. In the instant case, the advance amount for preparation
of Mid- Day Meal, was sanctioned by the note-sheet and the
order signed by the Chief Executive Officer. It was not
sanctioned by the copies thereof endorsed to various
authorities. As such, those copies would not fall under the
category of “valuable security”. 19. In any case, the offence of forgery, as defined under section 463 of the Indian Penal Code, involves an element of
intent to cause damage or injury to the public or to any
person or to support any claim or title or to cause any person
to part with the property or to enter into any express or
implied contract or with intend to commit fraud. Such
elements are totally missing in the present case. There is no
allegation that any of the aforesaid intents existed when the
scanned signatures were affixed to the copies of the
documents. 20. Section 468 of the Indian Penal Code: 21. Section 66-C of the Information Technology Act: 22. This again involves fraudulent or dishonest intend which
is missing in the present case, as such offence under Section
66-C of the Information Technology Act is also not made out. 23. Section 66-D of the Information Technology Act: 24. Affixing scanned signatures to the copies of the
documents, which were subsequently signed by the
concerned person, does not tantamount to cheating by
personation as envisaged under section 66-D of the
Information Technology Act. Thus, the elements constituting
the offence under section 66-D of the Information Technology
Act are also not disclosed prima facie in the present case. 25. On the basis of aforesaid discussion it is clear that even if
 all allegations made in the FIR and other documents filed
 with charge-sheet are taken at their face value and presumed
 to be true, none of the aforesaid offence is made out against
 the applicant and if trial is allowed to be continued, it would
 amount to abuse of process of law. 26. Consequently, this application under Section 482 of the
 Code of Criminal Procedure is allowed and First Information
 Report No. 611 of 2014 registered by Police Station Kotwali,
 District Seoni, and the proceedings in criminal case arising
 therefrom so far as they relate to applicant Neelam
 Vishwakarma, are quashed. (C. V. Sirpurkar)
 Judge
sh