Hon'ble Supreme Court and NGT to check depleting
 groundwater levels in the country

 II Hon'ble Supreme Court Directions in M.C. Mehta v. Union of 2-4
 India & Ors. (1997) 11 SCC 312
 III Proceedings before this Tribunal from 2012 - 22.11.2018 5-12

 IV Order of this Tribunal dated 03.01.2019, 07.05.2019 and 13-23
 11.09.2019

 V Today's proceedings and directions 24-40

I. The Issue 1. The issue under consideration is reviewing the status of

 compliance of directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and NGT to check

 depleting groundwater level in the country. 1 II. Hon'ble Supreme Court Directions in M.C. Mehta
 v. Union of India & Ors. (1997) 11 SCC 312 2. The issue was considered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court vide its

 order dated 05.12.1996 and judgment dated 10.12.1996 on the basis of

 news item published in Indian Express dated 18.03.1996 under the

 caption "Falling Groundwater Level threatens City". The Central

 Ground Water Board (CGWB) filed an affidavit before the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court that from 1962 onwards the water levels were

 declining on account of enhanced pumpage. National Environmental

 Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) was required to examine the

 matter and its report dated 23.09.1996was considered. The Ministry of

 Water Resources (MoWR) ("Now, Ministry of Jal Shakti, Department of

 Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, MoJS,

 since 2019) filed affidavit dated 24.10.1996 that there was over

 exploitation of the groundwater in certain areas. The Government of

 India had circulated a model bill to States/UTs in the year 1970 to

 remedy the situation. It was for the States to take further steps as water

 is state subject. 3. Vide order dated 05.12.1996, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed

 that the matter needed to be dealt with under the Environment

 (Protection) Act, 1986 (EP Act, 1986 ) by the Central Government,

 referable to Entry 13, List I of the Seventh Schedule read with Article 253 of the Constitution. The Court overturned the MoJS's stand that control

 of groundwater was States' responsibility because water was the State

 subject. The Court observed that the management of water resources

 to achieve overall aspirational goal of sustainable development

 warrants legal interventions based on the principles of inter and 2 intra generational equity, the precautionary principle, conservation

of natural resources and environmental protection are covered by

the EP Act, 1986 . Thus, an authority was required to be constituted

with the mandate as recommended by NEERI as follows: 4. Finally, on 10.12.1996, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held: III. Proceedings before this Tribunal from 2012 - 22.11.2018 4 5. Petitions have been filed before this Tribunal from time to time

 since 20121, with the grievance of rampant illegal drawal of groundwater

 by hotels, industries and builders for commercial purposes with no

 effective check by the CGWA as per mandate of law laid down by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court. 6. The Tribunal dealt with the individual matters and directed

 stopping of such illegal extraction and recovery of compensation. All

 matters which were earlier tagged to the present matter, have been

 disposed of on 11.9.2019 leaving the main question pending for

 consideration herein. In one of the matters2, the Tribunal referred to a

 Hindustan Times article that 50 lac litres of ground water was extracted

 daily by Tanker mafias with no action and a Times of India article dated

 6.6.2017 that 4 crore litres of water was being illegally extracted in

 Gurgaon daily. The Tribunal directed remedial action. Such cases are

 legion. The Tribunal observed that there is need for constant action by

 the regulatory authorities and a robust mechanism for effective review, to

 comply with the mandate of law and to avoid unnecessary litigation. 7. Reference may also be made to some other news items/articles. In

 a recent news item dated 15.7.20203 in Tribune under the title "Decline

 in water table caused crack in Mahendragarh field: Experts", pathetic

 ground situation has been reported. In the news item dated

 17.9.20184 in Mongabay under the title "As India's Ganges runs out of

 water, a potential food shortage looms", it is stated that in the last 3

 decades groundwater input to the river ganga has declined by 50%. 1 Order dated 11.9.2019 in OA No. 59/2012, Vikrant Tongad; OA No. 108/2013, Legal Aid Committee, NGT Bar; OA
No. 179/2013, Raj Hans Bansal; [OA No. 484/2015; OA No. 327/2018; OA No. 115/2017] Shailesh Singh; [OA No.
613/2017; OA No. 614/2017] Mohd Javed 2 OA 458/17, Harinder Dhingra, order dated 11.9.2019 3 https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decline-in-water-table-caused-crack-in-mahendragarh-field-
experts-112461A 458/2017 4 https://news.mongabay.com/2018/09/as-indias-ganges-runs-out-of-water-a-potential-food-shortage-looms/ 5 This has resulted due to the unsustainable groundwater extraction

 which could severely affect the availability of water for surface water

 irrigation with potential decline in food production. In the news item

 dated 20.8.20185 in the Hindu Business Line under the title "Ganga

 drying up in summers due to groundwater depletion: Study", it is

 stated that decline in the groundwater inflow is hurting the health of

 river Ganga. In the news item dated 5.10.20196 in the Print under the

 title "Water bodies running dry at alarming rate due to groundwater

 depletion", it is mentioned that groundwater depletion at a rapid rate

 will affect the flow of river and stream which will lead to disruption of

 aquatic ecosystems and global food security. In the National Geographic

 resource library7, titled "Water table", it has been highlighted that the

 groundwater extraction can result in the fall of the water table beyond

 the level of replenishment. There is further article dated 2.10.2019 in

 National Geographic titled "We pump too much water out of ground -

 and that's killing our rivers"8 The article states that by 2050,

 thousands of rivers and streams worldwide could pass a critical

 ecological threshold. Such reports abound and the Tribunal is confronted

 with the same frequently. 8. As in other cases, it is stated herein that there is fast depletion of

 ground water in NOIDA and Greater NOIDA, District Gautam Budh

 Nagar, U.P., due to large scale extraction of groundwater by various

 commercial entities, including hotels in Ghaziabad, Moradabad and

 Agra, where ground water levels were unsafe. There was no effective

 regulation on account of which situation was worsening. Contentions of 5 https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/science/ganga-drying-up-in-summers-due-to-groundwater-
 depletion-study/article24736218.ece 6 https://theprint.in/science/water-bodies-running-dry-at-alarming-rate-due-to-groundwater-depletion-reveals-
 study/301311/ 7 https://www.nationalgeographic.org/encyclopedia/water-table/ 8 https://www.nationalgeographic.com/science/2019/10/groundwater-pumping-killing-rivers-streams/ 6 learned counsel for the applicants are that directions relating to water

harvesting are not being complied with. There is no effective monitoring

after NOC for extraction for commercial purposes is granted subject to

conditions of replenishments or restricted quantum or uses which

conditions are held in breach. There is no published data of level of

depletion nor any impact study before granting NOC. No realistic

roadmap to remedy the falling level has been provided. This has affected

flow of rivers. Water bodies are drying up. Charges for extraction are a

pittance even though in OCS areas ground water is scarce and even for

drinking purposes there are difficulties in supplying water to all. There

are allegations of extraction of ground water for horticulture,

watering playfields, construction and industrial and other secondary

purposes for which treated water could be easily used. This was not

happening in absence for regulatory and enforcement measures. 9. Significant orders of the Tribunal include orders dated

23.04.2015, 26.07.2018, 28.08.2018 and 22.11.2018. Reference to

orders passed thereafter will be made later. It was noted in the order

dated 23.04.2015 (in OA 59/2012) that ground water level has gone

down in NOIDA by 15 mtrs. between 2007-2014. The Tribunal issued

directions to regulate the problem. 10. On 26.07.2018 (in OA 59/2012) it was noted that the problem

was not confined to NOIDA, Greater NOIDA, Delhi and NCR, the

situation in Over exploited, critical and semi critical (OCS) regions

throughout India called for stringent regulation for ground water

extraction. The Tribunal thus took up the issue of effective enforcement

of regulatory measures pan India in all OCS areas. It required an expert 7 from the MoJS to be present to assist. The order was uploaded on

Tribunal's website so that all stake holders could participate. 11. Vide order dated 28.08.2018, the Tribunal noted the CGWA stand

that it was regulating only some areas notified by it and its

notification did not include all the OCS areas which had already been

identified and notified by the CGWA, having regard to the depletion of

groundwater level. There was no basis for limiting monitoring to only

some of the OCS areas leaving out others though the CGWA was

under legal obligation to regulate ground water management

throughout India. Accordingly, the Tribunal directed the MoJS in

consultation with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate

Change (MoEF&CC) and Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), to review the

existing mechanism for effective conservation of ground water

resources in all OCS areas in the country. It was directed that the

policy framework must include monitoring mechanism by way of

provision for coercive measures, consistent with the mandate in the

judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in M.C Mehta (supra). The CGWA guidelines that permission to extract ground water in

OCS areas is to be given only for drinking and domestic purposes were

noted and directed to be acted upon. The unsatisfactory situation

continues ignoring various orders of the Tribunal on untenable pleas

as can be seen from later part of the order. 12. On 22.11.2018, the matter was further considered in the

presence of the Secretary, Water Resources who stated that the

CGWA was ill equipped to handle all areas and the regulatory

framework was 'under consideration'. After making reference to the 8 2012 Guidelines issued by the CGWA and Draft Guidelines dated

16.11.2015, the Tribunal noted the following points: The Tribunal noted further averments that annual extraction was 253

 BCM, 25% of the global ground water extraction. Out of total 6,584

 assessment units, 1,034 fall in overexploited category (where

 extraction is more than 100%of recharge), 253 fall in critical 10 category (where extraction is 90-100% of the recharge), 681 fall

 under semi-critical category (where extraction is 70-100% of the

 recharge) and 4,520 were under safe category (where extraction is 90%

 of the recharge). According to CGWA, about 90% extraction was for agricultural

 purposes,10% for drinking, domestic and industrial purposes.

 Industrial use was 5%. Their contention was that no purpose is

 achieved by stringent regime against industrial use, it being a lower

 percentage. Regulating extraction for agricultural use was otherwise

 difficult as agriculturists were struggling for survival.

 CGWA appeared to be content with some steps taken like Model building

 bye-laws 20169 without showing the extent of implementation and

 results achieved or projected. They also cited some other policies10 and

 programs, mostly in the nature of advisories, guidance and directions,

 but with no specific monitoring mechanisms, or attending consequences

 for non-compliance. In respect of all these programs too, CGWA failed to

 show the extent of implementation, nor actual results or enhancement in

 groundwater levels. 9 The said bye laws had measures including - made a provision of rain water harvesting in all new buildings on
plots of 100 sq. mtrs. and above. Entire storm water is required to be captured for water harvesting through
suitable structures in all public and open spaces of more than 500 sq. mtrs. Buildings having minimum discharge of
10,000 liters and above are required to have waste water recycling system for horticulture purposes. 10 'Mission Water Conservation' has been introduced by the Ministry of Agriculture, GOI. Inter-Ministerial
Committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of the Secretary, MoJS. The Ministry is also carrying out
training programme and Information, Education & Communication (IEC) activities for awareness. The Department
of Land Resources is implementing water-shed development projects. Certain States have taken initiatives
including Punjab Preservation of Subsoil Water Act, 2009 which ban early sowing of paddy nursery and
transplantation of saplings. Maharashtra Groundwater (Development and Management) Act, 2009 prohibits
drilling of deep wells within for agriculture or industrial usage, pumping of ground water for deep well of depth of
60 mtrs. or more. The CGWA issued advisories and it requires taking of NOC for ground water withdrawal but the
agriculture section is not subjected to ground water regulation on account of socio-economic implications. The
steps taken by the CGWA include directions for rooftop rain water harvesting systems, ground water recharge
measures along the National highways, State national highways, railway tracks, etc., artificial recharge in over-
exploited areas, large and medium industries using ground water to take up the ground water conservation
measures. 11 CGWA further stated that they impose conditions while granting

NOC for withdrawal of ground water but the Tribunal found that

compliance of such conditions was not effectively monitored.

Further, the Tribunal noted deficiencies in CGWA policy as follows: Some further vulnerable features of the notification were noted as

 follows: The Tribunal also referred to the publication of the Niti Ayog12: 17. The Tribunal noted another survey on the subject as follows: 18. The Tribunal held that the blanket exemptions rendered regulatory

regime illusory, resulting in no impact assessment. There was no

application of mind shown as to how such policy will prevent extraction

of water beyond desired levels in OCS areas. Exemptions were in clear

breach of public trust doctrine and intergenerational and precautionary

principles. The nominal charges had no nexus to the cost of restitution

or value. 19. The Tribunal held that the Notification worsened the situation by

liberalizing the extraction of ground water even for commercial

purposes in violation of spirit of order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, as

well as the Tribunal's specific directions. The Tribunal upheld the

following objections against the Notification: 20. The Tribunal observed: "21. The provisions of the impugned notification show that drawal
 of ground water has been, for all practical purposes, made
 unregulated in all areas, including the OCS areas. 22. The so-called regulation is illusory. The so-called conditions are
 incapable of meaningful monitoring, as shown by past
 experience also. 23. The water conservation fee virtually gives licence to harness
 ground water to any extent even in OCS areas. 24. There is no institutional mechanism to monitor removal and
 replenishment of ground water. 25. Delegation provision is virtual abdication of authority. 26. There is no check on injection of pollutants in the ground
 water in the impugned notification. There is no provision with
 regard to check on water quality and its remediation, if there is
 contamination. 29. The MoEF&CC is directed to constitute an Expert Committee
 by including representatives from IIT Delhi, IIT Roorkee, IIM
 Ahmedabad, CPC B, NITI Ayog and any other concerned agency
 or department to examine the issue of appropriate policy for
 conservation of ground water with a robust institutional
 mechanism for surveillance and monitoring with a view to
 enhance access to ground water for drinking purposes in
 OCS areas by way of appropriate replenishment practices
 which can be properly accounted and measured for as
 well as to sustain the flow of rivers in terms of e-flows
 and other water bodies. The MoEF& CC and MoWR may
 finalize the issue of subject matter inter-se with regard to ground
 water reserve and its quality. 31. The Committee may also indicate the projection of its
 impact study in light of projected data for the next 50
 years (in phased manner with action plan for each
 decade). Thereafter, fresh guidelines be issued by the
 concerned Ministry and the report furnished to the Tribunal on or
 before 30.04.2019. 32. The CPC B may constitute a mechanism to deal with individual
 cases of violations of norms, as existed prior to Notification of
 12.12.2018, to determine the environment compensation to be
 recovered or other coercive measures to be taken, including 15 prosecution, for past illegal extraction of ground water, as per
 law. All the matters relating to illegal extraction of ground water
 by individuals are disposed of with these directions." 21. The Tribunal accordingly held: The Tribunal sought reports from the MoEF&CC for remedial

measures and from CPC B to evolve compensation regime.

Tribunal Order dated 07.05.2019 22. The matter was thereafter considered on 07.05.2019 and since the

report was not furnished by the MoEF&CC in terms of order dated

03.01.2019, the matter was deferred for the purpose. However, the CPC B

report of 30.04.2019 with regard to the compensation regime was

considered. It was found unsatisfactory and a fresh report was required

to be filed for the following reasons: Tribunal order dated 11.09.2019, considering MoEF&CC
Report of 18.7.2019 and CPC B report of 26.6.2019 23. The matter was thereafter considered by the Tribunal on

11.09.2019. The Tribunal noted MoEF stand that in OCS areas,

ground water extraction could be allowed only for drinking and

domestic purposes. However regulatory regime suggested was not

effective. The CPC B report regarding compensation was accepted as

interim arrangement and directions were issued for further examination

to lay down stringent regulatory regime. The Tribunal held, in relevant

part: 18. Apart from giving the above statistics the report deals with the
 review of institutional framework, gaps in groundwater
 management strategy and makes recommendations providing
 for levy of water conservation fee, criteria for extraction of
 groundwater in OCS area, registration of bore-wells, utilization
 of treated sewage water, shifting of cropping pattern and
 irrigation practices, optimal use of fresh water and best
 conservation practices. It is suggested that guidelines be
 prepared applicable pan India with liberty to lay down more
 stringent norms by the States depending on local 17 conditions, making water resource estimation every two
 years, periodic assessment of OCS areas, inviting projects
 from experts for water management and preparation of
 decadal action plans. 19. The report remains deficient as the issue of preventing
 depletion of ground water has not been duly addressed.
 The effective enforcement mechanism of conditions
 subject to which groundwater extraction may be allowed
 in OCS areas has not been provided. Mere condition of
 recharge without clear strategy of enforcement is no
 safeguard for permitting extraction of groundwater. The
 report leaves many issues to be dealt with by further
 studies. The need for immediate concrete action to
 prevent further depletion is not met by the report nor the
 effective safeguards against abuse of permission for
 extraction in violation of conditions for extraction and
 effective remedies against rampant illegal extractions
 have been suggested. This shows that further remedial
 action needs to be taken. 20. The report of CPC B dated 26.06.2019 deals with methodology
 for assessing environmental compensation (EC), Formula for
 Environmental Compensation for illegal extraction of ground
 water, Environmental Compensation Rate (ECRGw) which has
 been further dealt with in different categories, i.e. ECRGw for
 Drinking & Domestic use for household purposes and those for
 institutional activity, commercial complexes, townships etc.,
 ECRGw for Packaged Drinking Water Units, ECRGw for Mining,
 Infrastructure and Dewatering Projects, ECRGw for Industrial
 Units, Deterrent factors to compensate losses and environmental
 damage (for packaging drinking water units, mining, industrial
 and commercial purposes) and Deterrent Factor . Formula for
 Environmental Compensation for illegal extraction of ground
 water is as follows: All other details can be seen from the report which is
 available on the website of CPC B. The report also
 gives recommendations as follows: 18 21. The committee has given following recommendations: The industries also be encouraged to create facilities for
 storage of excess storm water and adequate measures such
 as groundwater recharge as well as restoration of lakes
 /ponds in the vicinity of the industry. 9. In addition, all repeated violations will attract EC at 1.25
 times the previous EC. 10. Authorities assigned for levy EC and taking penal action are
 listed below: Order dated 28.08.2019 20 (c) Robust mechanism to monitor conditions laid down
 for grant of permission for extraction of ground
 water. (d) Recommendations in the report of the CPC B dated
 26.06.2019 referred to above . (ii) The composition of the Committee will be as follows:- V. Today's proceedings and directions
 Review of CGWA/MoJS position and the Committee's report
 pursuant to the Tribunal order dated 11.9.2019 24. The matter is being taken up in continuation of order dated

 11.09.2019. We have heard Shri Vikramjit Banerjee, learned ASG

 appearing for MoJS and CGWA, We have considered the CGWA affidavit

 dated 16.3.2020 filed for MoJS which annexes the report of the

 Committee purporting to be in compliance of Tribunal order dated

 11.9.2019. The situation continues to be entirely unsatisfactory. Several

 issues in the report are same which were rejected in the order dated

 3.1.2019. The MoJS appears to be avoiding its Constitutional obligation

 of complying with the judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and 21 repeated directions of this Tribunal. Surprisingly and regretfully, a

 wholly untenable prayer is made that the Tribunal should review its

 earlier orders, which have attained finality, never having been

 challenged. It is thus clear that there is no intent or effort to comply with

 the said orders. The report is not in compliance of this Tribunal's

 orders but rather, largely violates the spirit of the said mandate. We

 proceed to record the reasons. 25. The CGWA affidavit states that the restriction on extraction of

 groundwater in OCS areas is likely to have adverse impact on

 industrial production, employment opportunities and GDP of some

 States. It seeks vacation of the Tribunal order dated 03.01.2019, so as to

 issue NOCs for groundwater extraction as per proposed guidelines or as

 per 2015 guidelines14. 26. As mentioned earlier, the report practically reiterates the

 regime earlier brought out on 12.12.2018, which was rejected by the

 Tribunal on 3.1.2019 being against sustainable development and

 mandate of law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. We do not find

 it necessary to reproduce the report in extenso but refer to and comment

 upon the main aspects thereof. a. The report states at the outset, contrary to the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court judgment: Dated 16.11.2015, and which were earlier disapproved 22 However, as against the above stand, the report also mentions that

 the CGWA is vested with the regulation, control, management and

 development of groundwater in the country. It has issued

 guidelines (including the 2015 and the 2018 guidelines), and

 enumerated its various initiatives and policy decisions.

b. For the same reasons for which notification dated12.12.2018 was

 found unacceptable, the proposed recommendations, liberalizing

 groundwater extraction across the board to certain categories

 without any impact assessment and effective checks, are

 against law. c. Exemptions for infrastructure projects, MSMEs or other industries

 or commercial purposes except drinking water, where supply is not

 otherwise available in water stressed areas, will be against

 sustainable development and public trust doctrine unless

 individual impact assessment is conducted and permitting

 such extraction found viable. d. There has to be listing of priorities within available limited

 resources and unlimited demands and impact assessment of such

 activity and policy of permitting extraction has to be based on

 carrying capacity in the form of the water levels.

e. No road map has been provided how the new regime will check

 and neutralize falling ground water levels. There is neither a

 claim that in the last 24 years of regulation by the CGWA,

 ground water levels have improved, nor any projection for

 future improved. Data compiled by Niti Ayog in its report 23 published in 2018 'composite water index' is clear evidence of over

 exploitation at several locations. Moreover, CGWA itself has

 conducted survey and identified 1868 out of 6585 assessment

 units as OCS areas. Its failure is in not having effective regulatory

 regime. There is no adequate implementation of conditions for

 drawal of ground water for commercial purposes. Such failure is

 shown by falling levels and news of mafias engaged in illegal

 drawal of ground water in OCS areas without effective check.

 Further liberalization will defeat the purpose of having CGWA and

 be contrary to the mandate of public trust doctrine. Effective steps

 for protecting ground water in OCS areas against singularly

 commercial considerations are critical. f. The report observes: We find the statement that withdrawal to the extent of

 replenishment must be done to avoid wastage of rain water is

 contradicted by continually falling levels of ground water in

 OCS areas. There is no question of wastage of rain water where

 water level is falling. In such areas, the withdrawal has to be

 reduced not only to the extent of replenishment but to enhance the

 ground water to safe and sustainable levels. Replenishment and

 raising of water level are both important in OCS areas. Falling

 groundwater levels dry up water bodies and reduce the flow of the

 rivers. CPC B website acknowledges 351 river stretches as

 polluted for reasons including non availability of flow which

 prevents adequate dilution capacity. This affects the aquatic

 life, wildlife and food-chain and the entire eco-system.15

 g. The report states, under the heading 'action being taken for

 preventing depletion of groundwater and recharge': There is clear contradiction in mentioning need for balanced

 approach on the one hand and emphasis on the demand side.

 Such approach is against the mandate of 'Sustainable

 Development', including Precautionary principle, intra and inter-

 generational equity and 'public trust' doctrine. 15 See recent order dated 22.6.2010 in OA No. 673/2018, In Re: News item published in "The Hindu" authored by
Shri Jacob Koshy, titled "More river stretches are now critically polluted: CPC B" 25 27. In terms of the Tribunal's previous orders (dated 03.01.2019, Paras

 29 and 3116, and dated 11.09.2019, Para 2417), the core issues that are

 required to be considered are: flow of rivers, water bodies and overall sustainable management of 28 scarce natural resources with emphasis on industrial development,

without balancing development and environment. Irreversible

damage cannot be allowed by extracting water beyond safe levels,

without impact assessment. 29. We, thus, hold that as per mandate of sustainable development

under Section 20 of NGT Act, 2010, which has been held to be part of

right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution, the regulatory authority

must direct its policy towards preventing further depletion of and

upgrading the groundwater levels based on impact assessment.

Extraction can neither be unregulated or allowed across the board

without individual consideration. For this purpose, there is need to

compile data by mapping all the assessment units individually in

terms of current and estimated water level, drawal and

replenishment and preparing a management plan for all such units.

The CGWA being a statutory regulator for the country has to exercise

overriding power in the form of statutory regulatory orders. It may have

its own network and, to the extent found viable, utilize the network of

existing Authorities like District Magistrates, Environment Departments,

Departments of Irrigation and Public Health etc. The ground water

assessment has to be done annually and placed on the respective

websites of the Districts or States. Any extraction of groundwater has to

be permitted keeping in mind availability of groundwater ensuring that

there is no further depletion and ground water level remains at safe level. 30. At this stage, we may notice that the regulatory mechanism of the

CGWA has not been adequate, as the report also notes. CGWA does not

appear to have requisite strength nor enforcement mechanism nor

strategies. This may be one of the reasons for failure in effective 29 monitoring, defeating the object of law. This has led to large number of

 petitions before this Tribunal pointing out that illegal groundwater

 extraction was rampant. The plans for rain water harvesting and many

 other steps to a great extent remain largely only on paper. Remedial

 measures need to be taken in view serious challenges in protection of

 groundwater level, to save rivers and water bodies and the entire chain of

 environment. Roundup of other relevant cases before the Tribunal 31. In O.A. No. 496 of 201618, the issue of rain water harvesting

 systems and regulating extraction of groundwater in Delhi is subject

 matter of consideration. This Tribunal constituted a Monitoring

 Committee headed by a former Judge of the High Court. The Committee

 reported that 14,231 number of borewells were illegally operating in

 Delhi and there was over exploitation of the groundwater adversely

 affecting the flow of river Yamuna. Though provision was made for

 rain water harvesting, compliance thereof was not adequate. Large

 number of water bodies needed to be restored. Sealing of illegal

 borewells was inadequate. 32. We reiterate that mandate of law is sustainable development and

 only economic consideration is not enough for a policy, if it results in

 damage to the environment in violation of intra and inter generational

 equity and precautionary principle. Once potential for damage to

 environment is patent, precautionary approach is to prevail. In OA

 681/201819, the Tribunal, vide order dated 20.11.2019, considered the 18 Order dated 11.09.2019 in News Item Published in "Hindustan Times" dated 19.06.2015 Titled "Dirty flows your
drinking water" authored by Ritam Haldar" concept of sustainable development and carrying capacity in the context

 of air pollution in 122 cities in the country which are declared 'non-

 attainment'. The Tribunal directed review of Master Plans consistent with

 the principle of 'Sustainable Development' and carrying capacity as per

 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in (2004) 6 SCC 58820. 33. The Tribunal has directed undertaking of carrying capacity study

 carrying capacity assessment with regard to hill cities of Shimla21,

 Kasuali22 and Mcleodganj23, finding threat of earth quakes on account of

 excessive constructions already undertaken.24 The Tribunal had to

 restrict constructions in such areas. 34. In O.A. No. 1038 of 201825, the Tribunal considered the application

 of concept of Sustainable Development to polluted industrial clusters, in

 the light of law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 35. In OA 325/201526, the Tribunal considered the issue of protection

 of water bodies and noted that groundwater conservation was essential

 to protect the water bodies and to maintain flow of river stretches. The

 data furnished was noted showing serious challenge for restoration of

 water bodies in the country. In OA 148/201627, this Tribunal has been

 monitoring use of treated water for secondary purpose. For this purpose,

 directions have been issued for preparation of action plans and execution

 thereof. The last order was passed on 21.05.2020 directing as follows: Lt. Col. Sarvadaman Singh Oberoi v. Union of India & Ors 27 Order dated 21.05.2020 in Mahesh Chandra Saxena v. South Delhi Municipal Corporation & Ors . 31 i. All States/UTs through their concerned departments
 such as Urban/Rural Development, Irrigation & Public
 Health, Local Bodies, Environment, etc. may ensure
 formulation and execution of plans for sewage
 treatment and utilization of treated sewage effluent
 with respect to each city, town and village, adhering
 to the timeline as directed by Hon'ble Supreme Court.
 STPs must meet the prescribed standards, including
 faecal coliform." In the context of Delhi, the Tribunal noted that as per report of the

 DJB dated 16.11.2018, 460 MGD waste water was being treated but

 reuse was not being ensured. Thus, there is a need to ensure that the

 entire treated water is reused so as to reduce dependence on ground

 water. Review of pertinent case law re. Sustainable Development 36. The principle of sustainable development is well established. We

 may refer to certain well-known decisions. In (1996) 3 SCC 212, Indian

 Council for Enviro-Legal Action and Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. , the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court considered and explained the principle and laid

 down that compensation has to cover cost of remediation.28 The report in

 the present case is not compliant with this principle as observed above. The principle of sustainable development, as a balancing concept, has

 been further discussed and explained in (1996) 5 SCC 647, Vellore

 Citizen's Welfare Forum v. Union of India & Ors.29 The Public Trust

 Doctrine has been discussed and explained in ( 1997) 1 SCC 388, M.C.

 Mehta v. Kamal Nath & Ors.30 There can be no exemption to industries

 against sustainable development principle as held in ( 2001) 2 SCC 62,

 A.P. Pollution Control Board II v. Prof. M.V. Nayudu (Retd .) & Ors.31 In 28 ¶ 67, 68 & 70 29 ¶ 11 to 15 30 ¶ 25 & 34 31 ¶ 44 32 ( 2004) 10 SCC 201, State of W.B. v. Kesoram Industries Ltd. & Ors. ,

 there are observations to the effect that deep underground water

 belongs to the State and is governed by the Public Trust Doctrine

 (Para 387). Use of water for irrigation purpose may be permissible but it

 cannot affect reuse of water by others. Reference was made to the

 judgement of the Kerala High Court in (2004) 1 KLT 731 restraining

 Hindustan Coca Cola Beverage from using groundwater for its plant. It

 was observed that the State was under duty to protect ground water

 against excessive exploitation (para 389). The issue involved therein was

 justifiability of levy of cess on minor minerals by the Central Govt which

 was upheld by majority. These observations are in the minority

 judgement but on this issue, there is no contra view in majority

 judgement. In ( 2006) 3 SCC 549, Intellectual Forum, Trupathi v. State of

 A.P. & Ors. , the said principles have been reiterated.32 We may refer to

 the need for impact assessment to give effect to sustainable development

 and precautionary principle. In recent judgement in ( 2019) 15 SCC 401,

 Hanuman Laxman Aroskar v. Union of India33 , the environmental rule of

 law has been discussed as follows: 149. In 2015, the International Community adopted the 2030
 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 SDGs. These 17
 goals are: 150. Each of these goals has a vital connection to the others.
 Together, they provide an agenda for human development: 38. We round up the discussion of case law by referring to the recent

judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court dated 14.7.2020 in CIVIL

APPEAL NO. 6932 OF 2015, The Director General v. Aam Aadmi 36 Lokmanch, reiterating the earlier judgements on environmental law and

adding that "given the panoply of the NGT's powers under the NGT Act ,

which include considering regulatory directions issued by expert

regulatory bodies under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)

Act, 1974 , the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the

Biodiversity Act, 2002 it has to be held that general directions for

future guidance, to avoid or prevent injury to the environment for

appropriate assimilation in relevant rules, can be given by the NGT."

(para 75)

Directions 39. In the light of the above discussion, we direct as follows: 40. An action taken report may be filed by 31.1.2021 by e-mail

at [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/ OCR

Support PDF and not in the form of Image PDF. List again on February 11, 2021. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 S. P. Wangdi, JM

 Dr. Satyawan Singh Garbyal, EM

 Dr. Nagin Nanda, EM
July 20, 2020
Original Application No. 176/2015
DV 39