(Per the Honble The Acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan) 

 This appeal, under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent, is
preferred against the order passed by the Learned Single Judge in
W.P.No.1715 of 2018 dated 29.01.2018. The appellant herein filed the said Writ Petition seeking a
writ of prohibition to declare the action of the Joint Collector,
Medchal-Malkajgiri District, in taking up a suo-moto revision
against the order of regularisation passed by the Tahsildar,
Bachupally Mandal, Medchal-Malkajgiri District, in proceedings
dated 06.06.1996 and 17.08.2000, in the absence of a grievance
from any of the vendors of the petitioner and after a lapse of 18
years, as arbitrary and illegal; and to restrain the first respondent
from proceeding further with adjudication of the suo-moto revision
case dated 18.12.2017 concerning land admeasuring Ac.35.00 in 
Survey Nos.515 and 516, Bachupally Village and Mandal, 
Medchal-Malkajgiri District. A further direction is sought to the
respondents not to interfere with the possession and enjoyment of
the petitioner over the subject land. Facts, to the limited extent necessary, are that the petitioner
and 80 others submitted an application seeking regularisation of
their agreement of sale dated 28.06.1955 and 04.12.1972
contending that they had purchased the lands, mentioned against
their names, situated at Bachupalli Village, Qutbullapur Mandal,
Ranga Reddy District from the original owners of the land. These
lands were recorded as Kharij Khata in respect of some survey
numbers, and as patta in respect of some others. The 2nd
respondent passed an order on 06.06.1996 regularising the
unregistered sale deeds, under Section 5-A of the A.P. Record of
Rights and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 1971 (hereinafter called the
1971 Act), in respect of land of an extent of Acs.379.04 guntas
situated in Survey Nos.101, 187 to 207, 209, 223, 257, 258, 281
and 282 of Bachupalli Village. These survey numbers originally
formed part of Survey No.103. During re-survey, the afore-said
survey numbers were allotted, and a supplementary sethwar was 
issued for these lands. According to the appellant-writ petitioner, on an application
made by the original owners Sri Hashim Ali and others on
31.12.1996, it was noticed that there was excess land of Acs.35.00
guntas, in possession of the purchasers through the original land
owners; the excess area was allotted Survey No.515 for an extent of
Acs.18.00 and Survey No.516 for an extent of Acs.17.00; the 2nd
respondent passed orders regularising the excess area in favour of
the appellant-writ petitioner; and consequent to the letter dated
13.07.1998, addressed by the Assistant Director of Survey and
Land Records to the Mandal Revenue Officer, Quthbullapur
Mandal, and consequent upon the regularisation proceedings 
dated 17.08.2000, pattadar passbooks and title deeds were issued
in favour of the appellant-writ petitioner. The 1st respondent
issued notice dated 18.12.2017 calling upon the appellant-writ
petitioner to appear before him on 20.01.2018 at 11.00 A.M along
with all documentary evidence and records with respect to this
extent of Ac.35.00 guntas of land in Survey Nos.515 and 516.
Aggrieved thereby, the petitioner invoked the jurisdiction of this
Court. In the order under appeal, the Learned Single Judge noted
that the appellant-writ petitioner and 80 others had submitted an
application stating that they had purchased the lands mentioned
against their names, situated at Bachupalli village, under
agreements of sale dated 28.06.1955 and 04.12.1972 from the 
original owners, and had sought regularisation thereof; the lands,
sought to be regularised, were recorded as Kharij Khata in respect
of some survey numbers, and patta in respect of some others; on
verification of the records, the Tahsildar had passed an order on
06.06.1996 regularising the unregistered sale deeds under Section
5-A of the Record of Rights and Pattadar Pass Books Act, 1971 in
respect of an extent of Ac.379.04 guntas of land situated in Survey
Nos.101, 187 to 207, 209, 223, 257, 258, 281 and 282 of
Bachupalli village, Qutbullapur Mandal; the said survey numbers,
originally, formed part of Survey No.103 and, during re-survey, the
new survey numbers 515 and 516 were allotted; after re-survey,
and while issuing a supplementary sethwar, it was noticed that
there was excess land, of Ac.35.00 guntas, in the possession of the
purchasers who had purchased land from the original land
owners; the excess area came to light on the application dated
31.12.1996 submitted by the original owners Sri Hashim Ali and
others, and consequent to the letter dated 13.07.1998 addressed
by the Assistant Director of Survey and Land Records to the
Mandal Revenue Officer, Quthbullapur Mandal; this excess area
was allotted Sy. No.515 for an extent of Ac.18.00, and Sy. No.516
for an extent of Ac.17.00 cts; the Tahsildar passed orders
regularising the excess area in favour of the appellant-writ
petitioner; and, consequent to the regularisation proceedings
issued on 17.08.2000, pattadar pass books and title deeds were
issued in favour of the appellant-writ petitioner. The order under appeal further records that the Joint
Collector had issued a notice for enquiry, in respect of
regularisation of the said extent of Ac.35.00 gts situated in Sy.
No.515 and 516 under proceedings dated 17.08.2000, on the 
ground that, during field visit, he noticed certain irregularities
while verifying the said proceedings; he had noticed some extra-
polations in the Survey Numbers by including Survey No.103 (old),
and utilising challan No.388 dated 14.06.1996 and challan No.433
dated 14.06.1996 for regularisation of lands in Survey Nos.515
and 516 also; from the records, filed along with the Writ Petition, it
was noticed that the original claim of the appellant-writ petitioner
and 80 others was in relation to an extent of Ac.379.04 guntas, for
which regularisation proceedings were issued on 06.06.1996; the
original owners had later submitted an application on 31.12.1996
informing that excess land was in their possession and, on survey,
it was noticed that there was excess land of Ac.35.00 with respect
to old Survey No.103; thereafter a supplementary sethwar was
issued with respect to this excess land; it was not known whether
the said land was covered by the Agreement of Sale or not; the
appellant-writ petitioner had filed an application on 12.11.1999
based on which proceedings were issued by the Tahsildar on 
17.08.2000; and the main enquiry of the Joint Collector was being
directed against the proceedings dated 17.08.2000. The Learned Single Judge was of the, prima facie, view that
the Joint Collector should proceed with the enquiry for the afore-
stated reasons; and, in view thereof, was not inclined to interfere
with the impugned notice dated 18.12.2007. He left it open to the
appellant-writ petitioner to support his case, with respect to
regularisation, before the Joint Collector. The Learned Single
Judge further observed that the ratio of the decision in Joint
Collector, Ranga Reddy District v. D. Narsing Rao was not
applicable to the facts of the present case, as the Joint Collector
had noticed the irregularity during his field inspection; and, prima
facie, he found some fraud in the transaction. The Learned Single
Judge granted liberty to the Joint Collector to conduct an enquiry,
and held that the said enquiry could not be interdicted by the
Court. The Writ Petition was, accordingly, dismissed. Aggrieved
thereby the present appeal. Sri A. Sudarshan Reddy, Learned Senior Counsel appearing
on behalf of the appellant-writ petitioner, would submit that
exercise of the power of revision by the first respondent was
extremely belated; the petitioner has no access to the records; as
the records were in the custody of the revenue officials, the
petitioner could not be blamed for the alleged extra-polation; the
order of regularisation was passed in the year 2000, more than 17
years ago; such belated exercise of power of revision was arbitrary
and illegal; the findings recorded by the Learned Single Judge, that
a prima-facie case of fraud had been made out, would influence the
authorities; from the proceedings of the first respondent, it is
evident that he had already formed an opinion; no useful purpose
would, therefore, be served in furnishing an explanation; the
dispute in the Writ Petition was only with regards payment of a
paltry sum, towards stamp duty, of Rs.1,680/-; instead of forcing
the appellant-writ petitioner to undergo the ordeal of having an
enquiry caused against him, this Court could direct the
respondents to collect the stamp duty of Rs.1,680/-, along with
reasonable interest thereupon; and the appellant-writ petitioner
would make the said payment, without prejudice to his contention
that he had not committed any default in seeking regularisation. According to the Learned Senior Counsel, at this length of
time when more than 17 years had elapsed, the appellant-writ
petitioner cannot now be called upon to produce evidence in proof
of payment of stamp duty 17 years ago. Learned Senior Counsel 
would rely on D. Narsing Rao1; and K. Narayana Reddy v. DRO, 
Nalgonda in this regard. On the other hand, Learned Government Pleader for Revenue
(Telangana) would submit that, in the present case, the first
respondent has alleged fraud; fraud vitiates all acts; the rule of
delay and laches has no application in cases where the
proceedings are vitiated by fraud; all that the first respondent has
done is only to call upon the appellant-writ petitioner to show-
cause why action should not be taken against him; it is always
open to the appellant-writ petitioner to submit his reply thereto,
and satisfy the authority that no action should be taken against
him; this Court would, ordinarily, not entertain a Writ Petition filed
against a show-cause notice, more so where fraud is alleged
against the appellant-writ petitioner; the allegation, in the notice,
is that the then Tahsildar had colluded with the appellant-writ
petitioner in regularising Ac.35.00 guntas of land in Survey
Nos.515 and 516; and these factual aspects can only be examined 
in revision by the Joint Collector, and this Court would not
undertake any such examination in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Learned Government Pleader would
rely on The Special Director v. Mohd. Ghulam Ghouse ; Badami 
v. Bhali ; State of Orissaa v. Fakir Charan Sethi ; Ram Preeti
Yadav v. U.P. Board of High School and Intermediate
Education ; Madhukar Sadbha Shivarkar v. State of
Maharashtra in this regard. In his proceedings dated 18.12.2017, the Joint Collector
observed that, during his field visit and verification of old file
bearing No.A/145/1996 in respect of the land in Survey Nos.515
and 516 admeasuring Ac.18.00 guntas and Ac.17.00 guntas, i.e in 
a total extent of Ac.35.00 guntas situated at Bachupally Village of
erstwhile Quthbullapur Mandal and presently in Bachupally
Tahsil, certain irregularities were found in regularising the Form-X
claim, made by the appellant-writ petitioner, in the aforesaid
survey numbers. According to the Joint Collector, the lacunae
observed, in entertaining the Form X application filed by the
appellant-writ petitioner by the then Tahsidlar, Quthbullapur, were
the following: polation by including Sy.No.103 (old) in the claim made by
the appellant-writ petitioner in Form-X application, and
notice under Form 11 and 12, and also in 13(A) notice in
respect of the land in Sy.No.101 of Bachupally village.
(3) the Agreement of Sale Dt.28.06.1955 and Dt:04.12.1972, 
through which regularisation was done by the then
Tahsildar, were also found to be extra-polated by
corresponding Sy.No.103(Old). (4) Challan Nos.388 Dt.14.06.1996 and No.433 dt.14.06.1996 
were remitted for regularisation of Sy.No.101 of an extent
Ac.4-16 gts, and the same were considered and 13(b) and 
13(C) were issued. Subsequently, the same challan Nos, 
mentioned above, were once again recorded illegally for
regularisation of Sy.Nos.515 and 516 in Form 13(B) and
13(C) during the year 2000 by mentioning the amount as
Rs.840/- & Rs.770/- and Rs.70/- totalling to an amount of
Rs.1680/-, whereas the same has been found to be paid. The Joint Collector, thereafter, observed that, in view of the
narrated facts and circumstances, it was evident that the
appellant-writ petitioner had got regularised an unregistered
document under the ROR Act vide proceedings No.A/145/1996 
dated 17.08.2000, and had obtained Form 13(B) and 13(C) 
fraudulently by playing mischief and in connivance with the then
Tahsildar, Quthbullapur Mandal in respect of the land in Survey
Nos.515 and 516 admeasuring Ac.18.00 gts and Ac.17.00 gts of 
land i.e., for a total extent of Ac.35.00 gts situated at Bachupally
Village of erstwhile Quthbullapur Mandal, and presently
Bachupally Tahsil; as, prima-facie, it was found that fraud had
occurred while passing the order under revision by proceedings
dated 17.08.2000, and in issuing Form 13(B) and 13(C), suo-moto
revision had been taken-up under Section 9 of the 1971 Act
against the order of the Tahsidlar, Quthbullapur dated
17.08.2000, and the consequential orders i.e. issuance of 13(B)
and 13(C) in respect of the land in Survey Nos.515 and 516
admeasuring Ac.18.00 gts and Ac.17.00 gts of land i.e of a total
extent of Ac.35.00 gts situated at Bachupally Village of erstwhile
Quthbullapur Mandal, and presently in Bachupally Tahsil. The
Joint Collector took the matter on record for enquiry on
20.01.2018 at 11.00 A.M, and directed the appellant-writ
petitioner to appear before him along with all documentary
evidence and records, either in person or through Counsel, and to
state why action should not be taken for cancellation of the order
under revision issued by the Tahsildar, Quthbullapur Mandal. Section 5-A of the 1971 Act relates to regularisation of
certain alienations or other transfer of lands and, under sub-
section (1) thereof, notwithstanding anything contained in the
1971 Act, the Transfer of property Act, 1882 and the Registration
Act, 1908 or any other law for the time being in force, where a
person is an occupant by virtue of an alienation or transfer made
or affected, otherwise than by a registered document, the alienee or
the transferee may, within such period as may be prescribed, apply
to the Mandal Revenue Officer for a certificate declaring that such
alienation or transfer is valid. Under sub-section (2), on receipt of
such application, the Mandal Revenue Officer shall, after making
such enquiry as may be prescribed, require the alienee or the
transferee to deposit, in the office of the Mandal Revenue Officer,
an amount equal to the registration fees and the stamp duty that
would have been payable had the alienation or transfer been
effected by a registered document in accordance with the
provisions of the Registration Act, 1908 as fixed by the registering
officer on a reference made to him by the Mandal Revenue Officer
on the basis of the value of the property arrived at in such manner
as may be prescribed. Under the proviso thereto, the Mandal
Revenue Officer shall not require the alienee or the transferee to
deposit the amount under Section 5-A(2) unless he is satisfied that
the alienation or transfer is not in contravention of the provisions
of the Andhra Pradesh Land Reforms (Ceiling on Agricultural
Holdings) Act, 1973 , the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act,
1976 , the Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Area Land Transfer 
Regulation, 1959 and the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands 
(Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977 . Under Sub-section (4), the
Mandal Revenue Officer, on deposit of the amount specified in
Section 5-A(2), shall issue a certificate to the alienee or the
transferee declaring that the alienation or transfer is valid from the
date of issue of the certificate; and such certificate shall,
notwithstanding anything in the Registration Act, 1908 , be
evidence of such alienation or transfer as against the alienor or the
transferor or any person claiming interest under him. Rule 22 of the A.P. Rights in Land & Pattadar Pass Books
Rules, 1989 relates to regularisation of certain alienations or
transfers of land. Under sub-section (5) thereof, the Mandal
Revenue Officer shall require the alienee or the transferee, under
Section 5-A of the 1971 Act, to deposit, through a challan in the
treasury, an amount equal to the registration fees and stamp duty
that would have been payable had the alienation or transfer been
effected by a registered document in accordance with the
provisions of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 as fixed by the
registering officer on a reference made to him by the Mandal
Revenue Officer in Form No.XIII-A, on the basis of the value of the
property arrived, within the time fixed by the Mandal Revenue
Officer, not exceeding one month from the date of the
communication and receipt of the order. Under clause (ii) of Rule
22(5), on deposit of the amounts through a challan in the treasury
as under clause (i), the Mandal Revenue Officer shall issue a
certificate in Form No.XIII-B as required under Section 5(A)(4) of
the Act to the alienee or the transferee declaring that the alienation
or transfer is valid from the date of issue of the certificate. The allegation of fraud, made by the Joint Collector in the
show cause notice dated 18.12.2017, is that the Tahsildar had
passed an order, vide proceedings dated 1\06.06.1996,
regularizing the unregistered sale transaction in respect of the
petitioners lands in Sy.No.101 admeasuring Ac.4-16 gts, along
with other claimants in different survey numbers for an extent of
Ac.379-04 gts; subsequently, vide proceedings dated 17.08.2000,
the Tahsildar had issued notices in Form XIII(B) and XIII(C) for
effecting necessary changes in the Revenue Records consequent to 
the creation of two new Sy.Nos.515 and 516, admeasuring 
Ac.18.00 gts and Ac.17.00 gts respectively, for a total extent of
Ac.35.00; this order dated 17.08.2000 was issued on the extra-
polation in the appellant-writ petitioners application seeking
regularisation, and in the notices issued in Forms XI, XII and
XIII(A) with respect to the subject land by including Sy.No.103
(old); the agreements of sale dated 28.06.1955 and 04.12.1972,
which were regularised under Section 5-A of the 1971 Act by the
Tahsildar on 17.08.2000, also contained an extra-polation whereby
the corresponding Sy. No.103(old) was inserted therein; and two
challan Nos.388 and 433 both dated 14.06.1996, through which 
payments were made for regularisation of the lands of an extent of
Ac.4.16 guntas in Sy. No.101, were again illegally used to seek
regularisation of lands in Sy.Nos.515 and 516 (which is said to
correspond to Sy. No.103 (old), and in Forms XIII(B) and XIII(C), in
the year 2000 mentioning the amount paid as Rs.1680/-. On these allegations, the Joint Collector recorded his, prima
facie, opinion that the appellant-writ petitioner had got an
unregistered document regularised under the 1971 Act, and had
obtained Form XIII(B) and XIII(C) fraudulently in connivance with
the then Tahsildar in respect of land of an extent of Ac.35.00 in Sy.
Nos.515 and 516 of Bachupally village; and a fraud had occurred
on the Tahsildar passing the order dated 17.08.2000, and in
issuing Form XIII(B) and XIII(C). It is to enquire into these
allegations of fraud that an enquiry was sought to be caused, and
the date of enquiry was fixed as 20.01.2018. It is well settled that,
on the slightest of doubt or even prima facie proof of fraud, the
matter must be thoroughly investigated to arrive at the truth.
( State of Orissa v. Harapriya Bisoi ; Fakir Charan Sethi5).
Fraud unravels everything. Once fraud is proved it vitiates
judgments, contracts and all transactions. (Ram Preeti Yadav6;
Lazarus Estates Ltd. v. Beasley ). The show cause notice, proposing to revise the order of the
Tahsildar dated 17.08.2000, was issued more than seventeen 
years thereafter vide proceedings 18.12.2017. It is no doubt true
that the power of revision should be exercised within a reasonable
time as the law does not expect a settled thing to be unsettled after
a long lapse of time. Where the legislature does not provide for any
length of time within which the power of revision is to be exercised
by the authority, suo motu or otherwise, it is plain that exercise of
such power, within a reasonable time, is inherent therein ( Santosh
Kumar Shivgonda Patil v. Balasaheb Tukaram Shevale ; D. 
Narsing Rao1), and the legislature cannot be intended to have left
the orders passed under the Act open to variation for an indefinite
period as it would have the effect of rendering the title of the
holders/allottee(s) permanently precarious, and in a state of
perpetual uncertainty. The Court should construe the statutory
provision in such a manner which makes the provisions workable,
advancing the purpose and object of enactment of the statute.
(Sulochana Chandrakant Galande. v. Pune Municipal 
Transport ). Unreasonable delay in exercise of the revisional
power would tend to undo things which have attained finality. It
depends on the facts and circumstances of each case as to what is
the reasonable time within which the power of suo motu action can
be exercised. ( State of H.P v. Rajkumar Brijender Singh ). Delayed exercise of revisional jurisdiction is frowned upon
because if actions or transactions were to remain forever open to
challenge, it will result in avoidable and endless uncertainty in
human affairs, which is not the policy of law. The intervening
delay may have led to creation of third party rights that cannot be
trampled by a belated exercise of a discretionary power especially
when no cogent explanation for the delay is in sight. Rule of law
must run closely with the rule of life. (D. Narsing Rao1). What
would be a reasonable period would depend upon the facts of each
case, ( Government of India v. Citedal Fine Pharmaceuticals ; State of Gujarat v. Patil Raghav Natha ; Mohamad Kavi
Mohamad Amin v. Fatmabai Ibrahim ; S.B. Gurbaksh Singh v. 
Union of India ; K. Narayana Reddy2), the nature of the statute,
the rights and liabilities thereunder and other relevant factors. ( State of Punjab v. Bhatinda District Cooperative Milk
Producers Union Ltd. ). While belated exercise of the power of revision is
impermissible, the question which necessitates examination in the
present case is whether such an exercise of the power would
necessitate interference, in proceedings under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India, in cases of fraud. Fraud is an act of
deliberate deception with the design of securing something by
taking unfair advantage of another, to gain by anothers loss. ( S.P.
Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath ; State of A.P. v. T.
Suryachandra Rao ; and Behari Kunj Sahkari Avas Samiti v. 
State of U.P ). Fraud has been defined as an act of trickery or
deceit. In Websters Third New International Dictionary, fraud in
equity has been defined as an act or omission to act, or
concealment by which one person obtains an advantage against 
conscience over another or which equity or public policy forbids as
being prejudicial to another. In Blacks Law Dictionary, fraud is
defined as an intentional perversion of the truth for the purpose of
inducing another in reliance upon it to part with some valuable
thing belonging to him or to surrender a legal right. A false
representation of a matter of fact, whether by words or by conduct,
by false or misleading allegations, or by concealment of that which
should have been disclosed, is one which deceives and is intended
to deceive another so that he shall act upon it to his legal injury. In
Concise Oxford Dictionary, it has been defined as criminal
deception, use of false representation to gain unjust advantage;
dishonest artifice or trick. According to the Halsburys Laws of
England, a representation is deemed to be false if it was, at the
material date, false in substance and in fact. From the dictionary meaning or even otherwise, fraud arises
out of the deliberate active role of the representor about a fact
which he knows to be untrue yet he succeeds in misleading the
representee by making him believe it to be true. The representation
to become fraudulent must be of a fact with knowledge that it was
false. Fraud is proved when it is shown that a false
representation has been made (i) knowingly, or (ii) without belief in
its truth, or (iii) recklessly, careless of whether it be true or false. A
false statement, made through carelessness and without 
reasonable ground for believing it to be true, may be evidence of
fraud. ( Ram Chandra Singh v. Savithri Devi ; T. Suryachandra
Rao19; Behari Kunj Sahkari Avas Samiti20; Derry v. Peek ). The expression fraud involves two elements, deceit and
injury to the person deceived. A benefit or advantage to the
deceiver will almost always cause loss or detriment to the deceived.
Even in those rare cases where there is a benefit or advantage to
the deceiver, but no corresponding loss to the deceived, the second
condition is satisfied. (Vimla (Dr.) v. Delhi Admn ; Indian Bank
v. Satyam Fibres (India) (P) Ltd ; T.S uryachandra Rao19;
Behari Kunj Sahkari Avas Samiti20 and Bhaurao Dagdu Paralkar 
v. State of Maharashtra ). In fraud one gains at the loss of
another. Fraud is thus an extrinsic collateral act which vitiates all
judicial acts, whether in rem or in personam. ( A.V. Papayya
Sastry v. Govt. of A.P. ). Fraud is a conduct which induces the other person or
authority to take a definite determinative stand as a response to
the conduct of the former. Misrepresentation itself amounts to
fraud. A fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and consists
in leading a man into damage by wilfully or recklessly causing him
to believe and act on falsehood. It is a fraud in law if a party makes
representations, which he knows to be false, and injury enures
therefrom although the motive from which the representations
proceeded may not have been bad. A collusion or conspiracy with
a view to deprive the rights of others in relation to a property would
render the transaction void ab initio. Fraud and deception are
synonymous. Fraud is anathema to all equitable principles and
any affair tainted with fraud cannot be saved by the application of
any equitable doctrine including estoppel and res judicata. (Ram
Chandra Singh21; T. Suryachandra Rao19; Behari Kunj Sahkari 
Avas Samiti20; Ram Preeti Yadav6; A.P. Scheduled Tribes 
Employees Association v. Aditya Pratap Bhanj Dev ). A representation is fraudulent not only when the person
making it knows it to be false, but also when he ought to have
known, or must be taken to have known, that it was false. A
mans mere assertion that he believed the statement he made to be
true is not accepted as conclusive proof that he did so. (Kerr on
Fraud and Mistake; Ram Chandra Singh21). Fraud and collusion 
vitiate even the most solemn proceedings in any civilised system of
jurisprudence. (Badami4; Shrisht Dhawan v. Shaw Bros ; Roshan Deen v. Preeti Lal ; Ram Preeti Yadav6; and Ram 
Chandra Singh21). Fraud and justice never dwell together.
(Ramchandra Singh21; T. Suryachandra Rao19; and Behari Kunj 
Sahkari Avas Samiti20). Fraud avoids all judicial acts,
ecclesiastical or temporal. A judgment or decree obtained by
playing fraud on the Court is a nullity and non est in the eye of the
law. Such a judgment/decreeby the first court or by the highest
courtshould be treated as a nullity by every court, whether
superior or inferior. It can be challenged in any court even in
collateral proceedings. (S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu18; Badami4;
Ram Preeti Yadav6). No judgment of a Court, no order of a minister, can be
allowed to stand if it has been obtained by fraud. Fraud unravels
everything. Fraud vitiates all transactions known to the law of
however high a degree of solemnity. (T. Suryachandra Rao19;
Lazarus Estates Ltd.9; Badami4). No court will allow itself to be
used as an instrument of fraud and no court, by way of rule of
evidence and procedure, can allow its eyes to be closed to the fact
that it is being used as an instrument of fraud. The basic principle
is that a party who secures the judgment by taking recourse to
fraud should not be enabled to enjoy the fruits thereof. (Badami4; Hamza Haji v. State of Kerala ). A person whose case is based
on falsehood has no right to approach the Court. (Badami4). A
judgment obtained by fraud or collusion may be treated as a
nullity. Sanction procured by fraud or collusion, cannot withstand
invalidity because, otherwise, high public policy will be given as
hostage to successful collusion. ( S.B. Noronah v. Prem Kumari
Khanna ; Halsburys Laws of England, Vol. 16, 4th Edn., para
1553; Badami4). Even in proceedings other than judicial, an order obtained
by fraud and misrepresentation, and/or a determination as a
result of fraud, cannot be allowed to stand. Fraud unravels
everything, and no person can keep an advantage or benefit or
privilege obtained by fraud. In public law, fraud on public
authorities is a special species of fraud which, without anything
further, must deny the person the benefits obtained by fraud.
Whether intentional or not, whether malafide or bonafide, public
law does not permit a person to retain the advantage obtained by
fraud. (Aditya Pratap Bhanj Dev27). The colour of fraud in public
law or administrative law arises from a deception committed by
disclosure of incorrect facts knowingly and deliberately to procure
an order from an authority or tribunal. In public law the duty is
not to deceive. (Shrisht Dhawan28; Roshan Deen29; Ram Preeti 
Yadav6; Ram Chandra Singh21; Ashok Leyland Ltd. v. State of 
T.N ; T. Suryachandra Rao19 and Behari Kunj Sahkari Avas 
Samiti20). Let us now take note of the judgments cited across the bar
on the belated exercise of revisional jurisdiction even in cases
where fraud is alleged. In Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya
Coolie Sangham v. K. Suresh Reddy , the Supreme Court held 
that, in the absence of necessary and sufficient particulars pleaded
as regards fraud and the date or period of discovery of fraud, and
as suo-motu power should be exercised within a reasonable period
from the date of discovery of fraud, the Court would be justified in
not examining the question of fraud alleged to have been
committed. In D. Narsing Rao1, on which reliance is placed on behalf of
the appellants, the petitioners therein claimed that the Jagirdar of
Gopanpally village in Ranga Reddy district had given Pattas to
different persons who were in possession of the lands; after
abolition of the Jagirs, these lands were reflected as Pattas in the
Khasra Pahani for the year 1954-55; these Pattedars had alienated
the lands to the petitioners under registered sale deeds, and they
were in possession thereof; on inquiry, they came to know that the
Government had reserved and allotted a total extent of 477 acres
in Survey Nos.36 and 37 of Gopanpally village for house sites to
Government employees by G.O.Ms. No.850 dated 24.9.1991, 
without mentioning the sub-division nos. of the survey numbers;
and the Patta lands of the petitioners were also sought to be
included within the reserved area. The petitioners filed W.P. No.21719 of 1997 before the High
Court. Thereafter respondent No.1, at the instance of Respondent
No.2, issued notice dated 19.12.2003 to the petitioners and others
claiming that, on verification of the records i.e. the Faisal Patti for
the year 1953-54 in respect of land bearing Survey Nos.36 and 37
of Gopanpally village, it came to light that no "Ain Izafa" (i.e.
implementation of changes) had taken place in respect of the said
land; entries in the Khasra Pahani had been incorporated by the
then Patwari without any orders from the competent authority;
and an enquiry under Section 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Rights in
Land to Pattadar Passbooks Act, 1971, was scheduled for hearing 
on 27.12.2003. The writ petitioners challenged the said notice filing W.P.
No.26987 of 2003, and a learned Single Judge of the High Court
allowed the Writ Petition by order dated 30.8.2004, and set aside
the impugned show cause notice. On the very same basis the first
respondent issued notice dated 31.12.2004 proposing to cause an 
enquiry under Section 166B of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana 
Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317F, fixing the date of hearing as
5.2.2005. The petitioners challenged the same in W.P.No.1731 of
2005; and W.P.Nos.21719 of 1997 and 1731 of 2005 were heard 
together. The Writ Petitions were resisted by the Government
stating that, in the Khasra Pahani for the year 1954-55, the
subject lands were entered fraudulently by the Patwari; these sub-
divisions were not approved by the Nizam Jamabandi in the Faisal
Patti during 1954-55; the subject lands were classified, from the
time of Jagir abolition, as Chinna Kancha (grazing land); the
unauthorised entries in Khasara Pahani, made by the then
Patwari, were detected by the Revenue Authorities; and, hence, an
enquiry was ordered. A Learned Single Judge of this Court, by a common order
dated 15.09.2009 set aside G.O.Ms.No.850 dated 24.09.1991 in so 
far as the subject lands were concerned. He also set aside the
notice dated 31.12.2004. The appeals, preferred thereagainst,
were dismissed by the Division Bench. It is in this context that the Supreme Court, in D. Narsing
Rao1, held that, while the entry sought to be corrected was
described as fraudulent, the notice impugned before the High
Court did not state when the alleged fraud was discovered by the
State; a specific statement, in that regard, was essential for it was
a jurisdictional fact which ought to have been clearly asserted in
the notice issued to the respondents; the attempt of the appellant-
State to demonstrate that the notice was issued within a
reasonable period of the discovery of the alleged fraud was
therefore futile; at any rate, when the Government allotted the
subject land as house sites for Government employees in the year
1991, it must be presumed to have known about the record, and
the revenue entries concerning the parcel of land made in the
ordinary course of official business; as the notice was issued as
late as on 31st December, 2004, it was delayed by nearly 13 years;
no explanation had been offered even for this delay assuming that
the same ought to be counted only from the year 1991; and judged
from any angle the notice, seeking to reverse the entries made half
a century ago, was clearly beyond reasonable time and was rightly
quashed. The law declared by the Supreme Court, in D. Narsingh
Rao1, is that the power of revision should be exercised soon after
detection and discovery of fraud; and failure on the part of the
authorities concerned, to exercise such powers within a reasonable
time after the fraud is discovered, may justify such action being
interdicted by this Court. On the other hand, in State of Orissa v. Brundaban
Sharma the Supreme Court held that exercise of the power of
revision, 27 years after the date of alleged grant of patta, was legal
and valid as its authenticity and correctness was shrouded with
suspicious features. In Madhukar Sadbha Shivarkar7, the
Supreme Court held that a plea of fraud was urged on behalf of the
State Government and the de facto complainant owners; it is at the
instance of the de-facto complainant land owners that orders were
passed by the State Government on the alleged ground of fraud
played by the declarants upon the Tahsildar, and the appellate
authorities, to obtain illegal orders in order to come out from the
clutches of the land ceiling provisions of the Act by creating
revenue records; these fraudulent acts on their part unravels
everything; the question of limitation, under the provisions of the
Act, for the State Government to exercise its powers did not,
therefore, arise; orders obtained unlawfully by the declarants
would be a nullity in the eye of the law; and though such orders
had attained finality, if it was found, in the enquiry, that they were
tainted with fraud, the State Government could interfere therewith. Where fraud, or suppression of material facts, has come to
the knowledge of the higher authorities after a long lapse of time,
limitation would start running only from the date of discovery of
the fraud or suppression. ( State of Maharashtra v. Rattanlal ;
D. Narsing Rao1). In cases of fraud, the suo-motu power of
revision can be exercised within a reasonable time from the date of
detection or discovery of fraud depending on the facts and
circumstances of each case, in the context of the statute and the
nature of the rights of the parties. While exercising such power,
several factors need to be kept in mind such as the effect on the
rights of third parties over the immovable property due to passage
of considerable time, change of hands by subsequent bonafide
transfers, the orders attaining finality under the provisions of other
Acts etc. (Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham33). 
Even in cases where the orders sought to be revised are
fraudulent, the power of revision must be exercised within a
reasonable period of the discovery of fraud. Simply describing an
act or transaction to be fraudulent will not extend the time for its
correction to infinity for, otherwise, exercise of revisional power
would itself be tantamount to a fraud upon the statute that vests
such power in an authority. (D. Narsing Rao1). As held by the Supreme Court, in D. Narasinga Rao, the
power of revision should be exercised soon after detection and
discovery of fraud. In the show-cause notice, impunged in the Writ
Petition, the Joint Collector has stated that, during field visit, he
noticed certain irregularities; while verifying the proceedings he
had noticed some extra-polations in the survey numbers by
including Survey No.103 (old); and Challan Nos.388 and 433 dated
14.06.1996 were utilised, for regularisation of lands in Survey
No.515 and 516 also, though they related to the amounts remitted
for regularisation of Ac.4.16 gts of land in Sy. No.101. Judicial
notice can be taken of the fact that Joint Collectors, like all other
government officials, are subjected to regular and periodic
transfers; and, since these alleged instances of fraud are said to
have come to light during the field inspection of the Joint Collector
who issued the show-cause notice dated 18.12.2017, it does
appear that the power of suo-motu revision has been exercised by
the Joint Collector soon after he detected and discovered these
alleged instances of fraud. It cannot, therefore, be said that
exercise of the power of revision, by the Joint Collector, is so
inordinate and belated as to necessitate its being set aside in
proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. In the present case, serious allegation of fraud are levelled,
by the Joint Collector, against the appellant-writ petitioner. We
may not be understood to have held that the Joint Collectors
prima facie view, of fraud having been committed by the appellant-
writ petitioner, is justified. We are only of the opinion that these
allegations of fraud necessitate examination and it would be wholly
inappropriate for us, in proceedings under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India, to interdict a show cause notice, seeking to
revise the order of the Tahsidlar dated 17.08.2000, as fraud is not
only alleged, but details of these allegations of fraud are also
furnished in the show cause notice. The mere fact that the show cause notice refers to the
allegations of fraud does not mean that the Joint Collector has
already made up his mind, and the proposed enquiry is a mere
ritual and an empty formality. In order to exercise the power of
revision seventeen years after the order dated 17.08.2000 was
passed by the Tahsildar, the Joint Collector was required to record
reasons which, prima facie, justified exercise of such revisional
powers. Bald allegation of fraud would not have sufficed for
exercise of the power of revision, and it is only if details thereof had
been furnished in the show-cause notice, and these allegations of
fraud are later established in the enquiry, would belated exercise of
revisonal powers be justified. The Joint Collector had, necessarily,
to furnish these details in the show cause notice, and the mere fact
that he did so would not necessitate the conclusion that he had
already made up his mind on the guilt of the appellant-writ
petitioner. It must also be borne in mind that the proceedings under
challenge in the Writ Petition is merely a show-cause notice, and
unless the High Court is satisfied that the show cause notice was
totally non-est in the eye of law, for absolute want of jurisdiction of
the authority to even investigate into facts, such Writ Petitions
should not be entertained for the mere asking and as a matter of
routine. The petitioner should, invariably, be directed to respond
to the show cause notice and take all stands highlighted in the
Writ Petition. Whether the show cause notice was founded on any 
legal premise is a jurisdictional issue which can be urged by the
recipient of the notice, and such issues can be adjudicated by the
authority issuing the very notice initially, before the aggrieved can
approach the Court. (Mohd. Ghulam Ghouse3). It would be wholly inappropriate for us therefore, in a Writ
Petition filed challenging a mere show cause notice, to examine the
submissions put forth on behalf of the appellants on merits, or
undertake an enquiry as to whether the petitioner had access to
the revenue records in the custody of revenue officials; whether he
can be held responsible for the alleged inter-polations therein; and
whether these allegations are confined only to non-payment of
stamp duty and nothing more. Nor would we be justified in
expressing any opinion on the submission of the Learned
Government Pleader for Revenue that, since the allegation in the
show-cause notice is that the then Tahsildar had colluded with the
petitioner, it matters little whether or not the appellant-writ
petitioner had access to the revenue records in the custody of the
then Tahsildar. Suffice it to observe that, as the appellant-writ
petitioner has merely been asked to show-cause, it is always open
to him to raise all such contentions, in his reply to the show-cause
notice, as are available to him in law. In the order under appeal the Learned Single Judge has
opined that, prima-facie, the Joint Collector found some fraud in
the transaction, and he should therefore be permitted to proceed
with the enquiry. In an intra-court appeal, under Clause 15 of the
Letters Patent, interference is justified only if the order of the
Learned Single Judge suffers from a patent illegality. We find no
such infirmity in the order under appeal. Suffice it, therefore, to
direct the Joint Collector, after the appellant furnishes his reply to
the show cause notice within three weeks from today, to pass an
order strictly in accordance with law taking into consideration the
objections put forth by the appellant-writ petitioner, in their reply
to the show cause notice, uninfluenced either by any observations
in the order under appeal or in the order now passed by us. The Writ Appeal fails and is, accordingly, dismissed.
Miscellaneous Petitions, if any pending, shall also stand dismissed.
However, in the circumstances, without costs. ____________________________ 
(RAMESH RANGANATHAN, ACJ) 
____________________________ 
(KONGARA VIJAYA LAKSHMI, J) 
Date: 03.04.2018