IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
 "SMC" BENCH, MUMBAI

 BEFORE SHRI SAKTIJIT DEY, JUDICIAL MEMBER &
 SHRI G. MANJUNATHA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER ITA No.558/Mum/2019 (Assessment Years: 2009-10)

ITO 17(1)(1) बनाम/
 बनाम Mr. Akshay Ramprasad
R.No. 115, 1 s t Floor, Vs. Agarwal,
Aayakar Bhavan , 41, Santam Apartment, 93,
Churchgate, Mumbai. Cufee Parade, Mumbai. PIN - 400 005. थायी ले खा सं . /जीआइआर सं . /PAN/GIR No. : AEVPA1819G
 (अपीलाथ /Appellant) .. ( यथ / Respondent)

 अपीलाथ ओर से / Appellant Shri Sourabh Deshpande, DR
 by : This appeal filed by the Revenue is directed against order of the
ld. CIT(A)-55, Mumbai, dated 19/11/2018 and it pertains to the A.Y
2009-10. 2. The Revenue has raised the following grounds of appeal: Akshay Ramprasad Agarwal. made by the AO 8% of Rs. 6.39,917/- against the addition
 made at 12.5% of the bogus purchases, ignoring that the
 assessee was unable to prove the genuineness of the
 purchases either by producing the suppliers for examination
 or by furnishing other substantiating documents by way of
 delivery challans, lorry receipts, octroi payment, quantify
 tally, confirmation from transport operation, godown rent and
 records maintained by godown keeper, bank accounts
 clearance certificate, rate comparison, third party assessment
 order etc, which were required by the A.O. 2. Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in
 law, the Ld. CIT(A) erred in overlooking the fact that the
 addition made by the AO was based on the details of the
 scam unearthed by the sales tax department, wherein it was
 established that the assessee has taken mere accommodation
 entries / bogus bills from the suppliers without actually
 making purchases from them. 3. The appellant craves leave to amend or alter any ground or
 add a new ground which may be necessary. 3. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee is engaged in
the business of manufacturing of flameproof electrical equipments,
filed,his return of income for AY 2009-10 on 30/09/2009, declaring
the total income at Rs. 6,07,566/- and said return was processed u/s
143(1) of the I.T.Act, 1961. The case has been subsequently reopened
u/s 147 of the Act, on the basis of information received from DGIT,
investigation, Mumbai, as per which, Sales Tax Authorities of
Government of Maharashtra had taken actions against number of
Hawala dealers, who had issued bogus purchase bills to various
parties in Mumbai and other places. As per list of beneficiaries, the
assessee is one of the beneficiary, who had taken accommodation bills
 558/Mum/2019. Akshay Ramprasad Agarwal. of bogus purchases from various parties as listed by the AO in para 2
of his assessment order amounting to Rs. 6,39,917/-. The case was
selected for scrutiny and the assessment has been completed u/s.
143(3).r.w.s. 147 of the I.T.Act, 1961 on 09/02/2015 and determined
total income of Rs. 6,87,560/-, after 12.50% profit additions towards
alleged bogus purchase from those parties and made additions of Rs.
79,990/-. 4. Aggrieved by the assessment order, the assesee preferred an
appeal before the Ld.CIT(A). Before the Ld.CIT(A), the assesse has
reitrated his submissions made before the AO. The sum and
substance of arguments of the assessee before the Ld.CIT(A) are that
purchase from the above party is genuine, which is supported by
necessary evidences. Therefore, no additions could be made on the
basis of information received from third party. The Ld.CIT(A), after
considering relevant submission of the assessee and also, by following
the decision of Hon'ble Gujarat High Court, in the case of CIT vs.
Simith P. Sheth (356 ITR 451) scaled down addition made by the AO
towards alleged bogus purchases to 8% gross profit on total
purchases from those parties. 5. None appeared for the assessee. We have heard the Ld. DR,
perused the material available on record and gone through orders of
the authorities below. We find that the Ld. AO has made additions of
12.50% profit on alleged bogus purchases on the ground that the
 558/Mum/2019. Akshay Ramprasad Agarwal. assessee is one of the beneficiary of accommodation entries of bogus
purchase bills issued by Hawala dealers. According to the Ld. AO,
although assesee has filed certain basic evidences, but failed to file
further evidence in the backdrop of clear finding by the Sales Tax
Department, Maharashtra that those parties are involved in providing
accommodation entries without actual delivery of goods. The Ld. AO
had also taken support from the investigation conducted during the
course of assessment proceedings, as per which notice issued u/s
133(6) to the parties were returned un-served by the postal
authorities. Therefore, he came to the conclusion that purchases from
the said parties are bogus in nature. It is the contentions of the
assessee before the lower authorities that purchases from the above
party are supported by necessary evidences. It has furnished all
possible evidences, including books of accounts; stock details and
bank statement to prove that payment against said purchases have
been made through proper banking channels. 6 Having considered arguments of the Ld. DR and also, material
available on record, we find that both the sides have failed to prove
the case in their favour with necessary evidences. Although, assessee
has filed certain basic evidences, but failed to file further evidences to
conclusively prove purchases to the satisfactions of the Ld.AO.
Further, mere payment by cheque does not prove the genuineness of
purchase, more particularly when other circumstantial evidence says
otherwise. At the same time, the Ld. AO had also failed to take the
investigation to a logical conclusion by carrying out necessary
 558/Mum/2019. Akshay Ramprasad Agarwal. enquires, but he solely relied upon information received from
investigation wing, which was further supported by information
received from Maharashtra Sales Tax Department. The AO neither
pointed out any descrepanices in books of accounts nor made out a
case of sales outside books of accounts. In fact, the AO did not
disputed sales declared for the year. Under these circumstances, it is
difficult to accept arguments of both the sides. Further, in a case
where purchases are considered to be purchased from
suspicious/hawala dealers, various High Courts and Tribunals had
considered an identical issue in light of investigation carried out by
the Sales Tax Department and held that in case of purchases claims
to have made from alleged hawala dealers, only profit element
embedded in those purchases needs to be taxed, but not total
purchase from those parties. The Hon'ble Gujarat High Court, in the
case of CIT vs Simith P.Sheth 356 ITR 451 had considered a similar
issue and held that at the time of estimation of profit from alleged
bogus purchases no uniform yardsticks could be adopted, but it
depends upon facts of each case. The ITAT, Mumbai, in number of
cases had considered an identical issue and depending upon facts of
each case, directed the Ld.AO to estimate gross profit of 10% to 15%
on total alleged bogus purchases. In this case, considering the nature
of business of the assessee the Ld. AO has made 12.50% profit
additions, whereas the Ld.CIT(A) has scaled down addition to 8%
gross profit on total alleged bogus purchase. Although, both
authorities have taken different rate of profit for estimation of income
from alleged bogus purchase, but no one could support said rate of
 558/Mum/2019. Akshay Ramprasad Agarwal. gross profit with necessary evidences or any comparable cases.
Therefore, considering facts and circumstances of this case and
consistent with view taken by the Co-ordinate Bench in number of
cases, we are of the considered opinion that the ld. CIT(A) has taken a
fair view and estimated 8% gross profit on alleged bogus purchases
to settle dispute between the parties and hence, we are inclined to
uphold order of the ld. CIT(A) and dismiss appeal filed by the
Revenue. 7. In the result, appeal filed by the revenue is dismissed. 5. िवभागीय ितिनिध, आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण, अहमदाबाद /
 DR, ITAT, Mumbai 6. गाड& फाईल / Guard file. 558/Mum/2019. Akshay Ramprasad Agarwal. आदेशानुसार/
 ार BY ORDER,
 स यािपत ित //True Copy// 1.

 उप/
 उप/सहायक पंजीकार ( Asst. Registrar)

 आयकर अपीलीय अिधकरण,
 अिधकरण, अहमदाबाद / ITAT, Mumbai