Prathiba M. Singh, J. Table of Contents
 A. Background ...................................................................................................................... 2
 B. Presence in India ............................................................................................................... 6
 C. Infringement ..................................................................................................................... 8
 D. Proceedings in this suit.................................................................................................... 11
 E. Recording of Evidence...................................................................................................... 17
 F. Submissions of Parties ..................................................................................................... 18
 F1. Submissions of Mr. Gaurav Pachnanda, ld. Sr. Counsel for the Plaintiffs ........................... 19
 G. Analysis and Findings ...................................................................................................... 22
 Analysis of Evidence.................................................................................................................. 32
 G1. Evidence of PW-1- Mr. Eli Haddad ..................................................................................... 32
 G2. Evidence of PW-2 - Mr. Sanjay Shetty ............................................................................... 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 1 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 G3. Evidence of PW-3 - Mr. Gaganpreet Singh Puri ................................................................ 38
 G4. Evidence of PW-4 - Mr. Arvind Dhingra............................................................................. 42
 G5. Evidence of PW-5 - Mr. Gavin Rawling.............................................................................. 43
 H. Findings .......................................................................................................................... 47
 I. Assessment of Damages ................................................................................................... 50
 J. Costs of Proceedings ........................................................................................................ 79
 K. Relief .............................................................................................................................. 84

 A. Background 1. The present suit has been filed by Plaintiff No. 1- Lifestyle Equities
 C.V. (hereinafter 'LECV') and Plaintiff No. 2- Lifestyle Licensing B.V.
 (hereinafter 'LLBV') inter alia, seeking permanent injunction and damages
 against the Defendants for infringement of their registered trademark Beverly
 Hills Polo Club (hereinafter 'BHPC'). The mark is extracted below: 2. The Plaintiffs along with its subsidiaries and licensees are engaged in
 the business of manufacturing, distribution and sale of a wide range of
 products including garments, apparels, accessories, footwear for men, women
 and children, furniture, textiles, watches and other lifestyle/ personal care
 products under the trademark 'BHPC'. Plaintiff No.1, an Amsterdam based
 company, is the proprietor of the BHPC trademark and holds exclusive rights
 over its use and commercialization. The BHPC trademark consists of a
 distinctive logo featuring a charging polo pony with a mounted rider wielding
 a raised polo stick (mallet), symbolizing the sport of polo. Plaintiff No. 2 is the
 licensee of the said trademark pursuant to the Master License and Licensing
 Service Agreement dated 20th May, 2008. 3. Under the terms of the said agreement, Plaintiff No. 2 has been granted
 the right to further sub-license the BHPC trademark in various jurisdictions.
 Accordingly, Plaintiff No. 2 licenses the use of Plaintiff No. 1's trademark to
 multiple licensees, distributors, and manufacturers across the globe. As a
 result, the said products bearing the BHPC trademark are distributed and sold
 in over 60 countries, including those in Europe, Asia, South America, North
 America, the Middle East, and the Gulf region. 4. The Plaintiffs, through their extensive global distribution network,
 make BHPC-branded products available to consumers via multiple retail
 channels. These products are made available to consumers through various
 retail outlets directly operated by the Plaintiffs, as well as their network of
 authorized licensees. Additionally, the products are sold in multi-brand stores Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 3 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 in collaboration with numerous retail chains worldwide. The BHPC branded
 products are also present in other online platforms. 5. The BHPC word-mark is stated to have been inspired from the
 geographical location Beverly Hills in Los Angeles, California, USA, an area
 renowned for its luxury, affluence, and association with high-end fashion and
 lifestyle products. The business under the BHPC mark with the accompanying
 logo has been established in the year 1982 and in India, the mark and the logo
 have been used since 2007. The Plaintiffs assert that, through consistent use
 and extensive marketing efforts, the BHPC brand has acquired substantial
 goodwill and brand recognition in India and internationally. 6. The trademark of the Plaintiffs consists of the word-mark 'BHPC'
 along with the accompanying logo i.e., the image of a "charging polo pony,
 the rider and the polo stick or mallet". According to the Plaintiffs, the
 combination of the use of the word mark and logo in a device form serves as
 a unique identifier of the Plaintiffs' brand and symbolizes its association with
 the sport of polo, luxury, and premium lifestyle products. Further, the word
 mark along with the logo device is used in various forms and stylistic
 variations across different product lines and marketing materials. Some of the
 forms and stylistic variations of the use of the marks of the Plaintiffs are set
 out below: 7. It can be seen that the horse device is a prominent part of the trademark.
 The word mark along with the logo is a registered trademark of the Plaintiff
 No.1 in various countries of the world. As per the Plaintiffs, they are the
 registered proprietors of various marks including the device mark in
 approximately 91 countries including USA, UK, India, UAE, Nepal, Mexico,
 Germany etc. The list of registrations of the Plaintiff has been filed along with
 the plaint and exhibited as Exhibit PW1/5. The BHPC mark both
 independently and along with the logo was registered in India under various
 classes including classes 3,9, 14 18, 24, 25, 35, 36, 42, 45 etc., The said
 registrations are not even in dispute. 8. The BHPC mark and logo are also stated to be advertised and promoted
 internationally including on in-flight advertisements. The BHPC branded
 products are showcased in various international fashion shows, such as
 • MIPEL - An international leather goods and fashion accessories fair,
 held in Europe,
 • MICAM - A bi-annual international trade fair for footwear, held in
 Milan Italy,
 • PITTI BAMBINO - An international trade fair for children-wear,
 • INTERGIFT - A bi-annual international trade fair for, inter alia,
 fashion and fashion related goods, based in Spain,
 • PREMIUM - A leading international fashion show, based in Germany,
 • WHO'S NEXT - A leading international fashion show, based in
 France,
 • HEIMTEXTIL - An international trade fair for home and contract
 textiles, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 5 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 • BRAND LICENSING EXPO - An international licensing expo for,
 inter alia, fashion and fashion related goods,
 • PITTI UMAO - An international fair and/or promotional events
 conducted in all areas fashion,
 • The Copenhagen International Fashion Fair - based in Denmark and
 • Cosmoprof Worldwide - based in Bologna, Italy. 9. The BHPC marks have been recognized for their exceptional brand
 value and consumer trust, having been awarded the prestigious status of
 'Superbrands' by the UAE Superbrands Council for the years 2016, 2017, and
 2019 . Therefore, the said trademark has acquired immense goodwill and
 recognition since its launch in 1982 and according to the Plaintiffs the use of
 the mark or the logo immediately identifies with the Plaintiffs. B. Presence in India 10. The Plaintiff No.1 launched its products in India under the BHPC
 trademark in 2007. In 2008, an agreement was entered into between the
 Plaintiffs and M/s Spencer's Retails Ltd. for the distribution and sale of BHPC
 branded products in India. Pursuant to this agreement, the Plaintiffs' licensee,
 Spencer's Retail Ltd., is stated to have opened 20 exclusive stores selling
 BHPC branded products in prominent locations such as DLF Promenade mall
 and Select Citywalk mall, etc., Further, the Plaintiffs claim to provide
 consumers and internet users with information on its product range, latest
 designs, and styles, through their official website www.bhpoloclub.com. The
 said website serves as a platform where customers can explore the various
 BHPC branded products included updates on new collections. According to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 6 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 the Plaintiffs, their online presence ensures that internet users and customers,
 including those in India, have access to their product range while
 strengthening global brand awareness and customer engagement. 11. It is further submitted that the Plaintiffs have generated substantial
 revenues from the sale of products bearing the Plaintiffs' BHPC logo mark in
 India. As per the Plaint, the sales turnover from products bearing the BHPC
 mark is more than Rs. 20 crore each year from 2016-2017 onwards. Further,
 in the plaint is has been highlighted by the Plaintiffs that for the advertisement
 and promotion of the BHPC logo mark, the responsibility lies with their
 licensees and retail partners, including entities such as the Apparel Group. It
 is averred that the licensees and retail partners are contractually obligated to
 undertake promotional campaigns for the BHPC logo mark in their respective
 regions, with a stipulated minimum expenditure on advertising and marketing. 12. In 2012, the Plaintiffs entered into two Trademark License Agreements
 (hereinafter 'TLA'), one with Major Brands India Pvt. Ltd. (now known as
 Apparel Group India) on 26th November, 2012 and another with Apparel
 Group FZCO on 8th November, 2012 for India and the GCC region
 respectively. Both these licensees are prominent retailers of various
 internationally well-known brands. 13. The licensing model of the Plaintiffs with their retail partners is by
 categorising two levels of sales in the agreement: According to the Plaintiffs, the Plaintiff No. 2 is entitled to receive 7.5% as
 royalty from the sales effected by the licensees. C. Infringement 14. The allegation in the plaint is that the three Defendants have engaged
 in activities that constitute a violation of the exclusive rights in the BHPC
 logo mark. The said three Defendants and their addresses as per the Memo of
 Parties is set out below: As per the plaint, Defendant No.1 was dealing with apparel products under
 the private label- 'Symbol' consisting of a horse device mark almost identical
 to the BHPC logo device thereby leading to infringement and unauthorized
 use. Defendant No.2-Cloudtail India Private Limited is alleged to have acted
 as the retailer of the said infringing apparel products, making them available
 for sale on the e-commerce platform www.amazon.in, which is managed and
 operated by Defendant No.3, i.e. Amazon Seller Services Private Limited. The
 Plaintiffs contend that such unauthorized use of the infringing marks on the
 Defendant's platform constitutes trademark infringement and
 misrepresentation, causing consumer confusion and dilution of the Plaintiffs'
 mark and goodwill. The illustrative images from the website Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 8 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 'www.amazon.in' where the infringing logo mark is being used are set out
 below: 15. A comparison of the Plaintiffs' and Defendants' mark/logo along with
 the manner in which the same is being used on the products is set out below: 16. It is the claim of the Plaintiffs that in May, 2020, the Plaintiffs came
 across sale of the said infringing products on Defendant No. 3's website
 'www.amazon.in'. As per the Plaintiffs, the said sale was being conducted by
 Defendant No. 2, under Defendant No.1's private label 'Symbol'. However,
 the exact relationship between the three Defendants was not known to the
 Plaintiffs. 17. According to the Plaintiffs, the entire attempt was to impinge upon the
 Plaintiffs' rights in BHPC logo. The Plaintiffs purchased some of the products
 through the platform 'www.amazon.in' and confirmed the fact that the logo
 which was being used was nothing but a slavish imitation of the Plaintiffs'
 BHPC logo. In fact, according to the Plaintiffs, this was an attempt to ride
 upon the goodwill of the BHPC trademark as the logo device was a prominent
 feature of the BHPC trademark. According to the Plaintiffs, such use of the
 logo is violative of the Plaintiffs' statutory and common law rights which
 deserve to be injuncted. D. Proceedings in this suit 18. Vide order dated 12th October, 2020, the Court heard the matter at the
 ad-interim stage where even Defendant No.2 and 3 were represented,
 however, none appeared for Defendant No.1, despite advance service. 19. After hearing the parties, the Court passed an ad-interim injunction
 restraining Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 from infringing the Plaintiff's trademark.
 The Defendant No.3 was also directed to take down the products of Defendant
 No.1 within 72 hours of the URLs being communicated. The operative portion
 of the order reads as under: 20. On 20th April, 2022, the Defendant No.1 did not appear despite service
 and was proceeded ex-parte. Defendant No.3 and 2 were directed to file
 separate affidavits giving details of the exact relationship they share with
 Defendant Nos.1 along with other directions. The relevant paragraphs of order
 dated 20th April, 2022 read as under: 21. Pursuant to the said order, Defendant No.2, on 18th August, 2022, had
 placed on record a license agreement which was executed between itself and
 Defendant Nos.1. The redacted copy of the same was also supplied to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 13 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 Plaintiff. The unredacted copy is lying in a sealed cover as part of the suit.
 However, on the said date, the Court observed that the affidavit filed by
 Defendant No.3, explaining its interse relationship to Defendant No.1, was
 unsatisfactory and directed it to comply with the order dated 20th April, 2022
 to the letter and spirits, both in terms of the sales figures as also the interse
 relationship. 22. On 5th September, 2022, it was submitted on behalf of Defendant No.2
 and Defendant No.1 that they were willing to (i) suffer a decree of injunction
 and (ii) pay reasonable damages. The matter was then referred to the Delhi
 High Court Mediation and Conciliation Centre. It is, thus, clear that the
 Defendant No.1 has also entered appearance before this Court. 23. For the purposes of determining the quantum of damages, the sales
 figures were required to be examined by the parties. To maintain the
 confidentiality of the terms of license agreement and the sale figures, the
 parties had agreed to set up a confidentiality club consisting of members
 nominated by both the parties. Accordingly, a confidentiality club was
 constituted vide order dated 15th September, 2022 and the club had perused
 the license agreement between Defendant Nos.1 and 2. 24. On 2nd March, 2023, the Court heard the ld. Counsel for Defendant
 No.2 and the Plaintiff and decreed the suit in favour of Plaintiffs in the
 following terms: 25. Thus, the suit was decreed qua Defendant No.2 for permanent
 injunction and for a sum of Rs.4,78,484/- was awarded as damages. Insofar
 as Defendant No.3 is concerned, it was submitted by Defendant No.3 that it
 is only an intermediary and the statement on behalf of Defendant No.3 was
 recorded to the following effect: 26. On the said date, since none appeared for Defendant No.1, Defendant
 No.1 has been proceeded ex parte. Thereafter, vide order dated 25th May,
 2023, this Court had permitted the Plaintiffs to lead ex-parte evidence in the
 present suit. The relevant extract of the said order is set out below: E. Recording of Evidence 27. Subsequent to the above orders, the Plaintiffs led the evidence of five
 witnesses namely, (i) Mr. Eli Haddad - PW-1, (ii) Mr. Sanjay Shetty - PW-2, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 17 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 (iii) Mr. Gaganpreet Singh Puri - PW-3, (iv) Mr. Arvind Dhingra - PW-4, and (v) Mr. Gavin Rawlings - PW-5. 28. Vide order dated 5th July, 2023, this Court permitted the evidence of
 Mr. Gavin Rawlings, PW-5 to be recorded through video conferencing. On
 12th July, 2023, PW-1 to 4 were present. Their examination-in-chief was
 recorded, and they were discharged. A remote point coordinator was
 appointed for examining PW-5, Mr. Gavin Rawlings on 19th July, 2023 in
 accordance with Rule 5.1 of the High Court of Delhi Rules for Video
 Conferencing for Courts, 2021 which mandated the appointment of a remote
 point coordinator for examining a witness overseas. Accordingly, Mr. Gavin
 Rawlings (PW-5) evidence was recorded through the video conferencing as
 per the said rules. 29. On 7th August, 2023, the matter was listed for hearing and the Court
 had directed that the witnesses ought to be present for the purposes of assisting
 the Court as detailed evidence has been led on the question of damages. F. Submissions of Parties 30. Mr. Gaurav Pachnanda, ld. Senior Counsel appeared on behalf of the
 Plaintiffs and Defendant No.1-Amazon Technologies did not enter
 appearance. Considering the Defendants have acceded to infringement, the ld.
 Sr. Counsel argued primarily on the quantum of damages. F1. Submissions of Mr. Gaurav Pachnanda, ld. Sr. Counsel for the

 Plaintiffs 31. Mr. Pachnanda, ld. Sr. Counsel relies upon the Plaintiffs Trademark
 License Agreement ('TLA') dated 26th November, 2012, the evidence and
 statements of Expert Witnesses, certain articles and cases from contemporary
 jurisdictions, to establish the quantum of damages prayed to be awarded. His
 submissions are as under: 32. The ld. Senior Counsel submitted that large scale infringement, along
 with deep discounting, can have a deleterious impact on a brand. The Plaintiff
 sells its products in the price range of Rs.3,000/- to Rs.5,000/-, whereas on
 Amazon, the products bearing the similar logo as that of the Plaintiffs are
 being sold at Rs.300 to Rs.400/-. 33. In this regard, the Plaintiffs have led evidence of two expert witnesses
 i.e., Mr. Sanjay Shetty (PW-2) and Mr. Gaganpreet Singh Puri, (PW-3).
 In paragraphs 120 to 126 of his statement, Mr. Gaganpreet Singh Puri has
 provided illustrations of how brands can be destroyed by such rampant
 infringement. The evidence of Mr. Arvind Dhingra (PW-4), specifically
 paragraphs 4 to 9, 14 to 17, 19 to 26 have also been highlighted by ld. Sr.
 Counsel for the Plaintiffs. In addition, Mr. Eli Haddad (PW-1), who is the
 Managing Director of the Plaintiff No.1, has explained in paragraphs 100 to
 104 of his evidence affidavit the impact that wilful infringement on such large
 scale can have on the Plaintiffs and their business plans. • Calculation of Compensatory Damages in terms of the Trademark
 License Agreement - 34. The fulcrum of the case of the Plaintiffs for the purpose of damages is
 the Trademark License Agreement dated 26th November, 2012 which was
 executed between Plaintiff No.2, a Dutch licensee of Plaintiff No.1, and M/s
 Major Brands India Ltd. The said TLA was for an initial period of 10 years
 with mutual renewal terms. The TLA had two kinds of sales which were
 contemplated. a. A minimum sale - The minimum sale figures were to be achieved by the
 licensee for the purpose of continuing the license and the Plaintiffs have the
 option of terminating the same if the minimum sales were not achieved.
 b. Projected sale figures. - The optimum level of sales to be achieved by the
 licensee. The royalties were to be calculated at the rate of 7.5% on the gross sales. 35. The TLA, though entered into in 2012, it was only between December
 2013 and January 2014 that the agreement commenced between the parties.
 Therefore, the first year of sales 2014-15 has been calculated on the basis of
 December 2013/January 2014 till 31st July, 2015 during which period the sales
 achieved by the licensee was to the tune of Rs.38,36,326/-. According to the
 Plaintiffs, the minimum sales that were to be achieved were Rs.20,92,545/-
 and the projected sales that were to be achieved were Rs.29,89,350/-. 36. On the basis of these figures, it is the submission of ld. Sr. Counsel that
 the Plaintiffs achieved more than the minimum sales and the business
 projected sales on the said period. On this basis, the damages have been
 calculated considering that the infringement commenced sometime in July,
 2015 by the Defendants. The suit was filed in September, 2020. The case of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 20 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 the Plaintiffs is that they detected the sales by the Defendants only in 2020
 and filed the suit but in the suit proceedings, the Defendants have disclosed
 that they have been selling the products since 2015. Thus, the damages have
 been calculated on the basis of sales since 2015 till 2020 as the first period.
 Between 2020-2024 as the second period and, thereafter, with terminal value
 (TV) basis. According to the Plaintiffs, the Plaintiffs are entitled to royalties
 on various heads. The witnesses have given justification for the manner in
 which the calculations have been achieved. 37. Reliance is also placed upon the quantum expert - PW-3 to quantify the
 losses at USD 21.85 million based upon minimum damages/actual losses.
 However, loss based on plans and projections was much higher i.e., USD
 33.78 million. The standards which have been adopted by the said witness are
 completely reliable for quantifying the losses. 38. It is also urged by the ld. Senior Counsel that the Plaintiff has a sub-
 licensee in India who is also known as the retail partner. The losses which the
 retail partner has suffered, in terms of Clause 9.2(b) of the Contract can be
 claimed by the Plaintiff in the present case. Thus, the Plaintiff's claims also
 extend to losses suffered by the retail partner at 10% profit which constitutes
 USD 29.06 million. In terms of the business plans, the losses are to the tune
 of USD 42.9 million. • Exemplary and Punitive Damages to be awarded on account of wilful
 infringement by Defendant No.1 39. According to the ld. Senior Counsel this would be a classic case where
 owing to the wilful nature of the infringement, exemplary and punitive
 damages would be liable to be granted. In fact, it is his submission that
 such indiscriminate use also prevails in other jurisdictions and reliance is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 21 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 placed upon an article published by Reuters which is republished in the
 Economic Times dated 13th October, 2021 to show how Defendant No. 1
 habitually copies brands of well-known companies. It is further submitted that
 the said position is also prevalent in other jurisdictions as is evident from the
 recent decision of the U.K. Supreme Court on 6th March, 2024 in the case of Lifestyle Equities v. Amazon U.K. Services Ltd. , [2024] UKSC 8 where the
 Court was looking at a similar situation and the question was with respect to
 whether jurisdictions ought to be exercised in England or not. 40. Punitive damages are also required to reprimand the conduct of the
 Defendants which run a famous e-commerce portal and are also indulging in
 such a flagrant violation of IP Rights. According to ld. Senior Counsel, the
 test laid down in Hindustan Unilever Limited v. Rickett Benckiser India Ltd
 (ILR (2014) II Delhi 1288) has been fully satisfied owing to the cascading
 effect that losses would have on businesses. In conclusion, it is submitted that
 lack of evidence in respect of any particular head ought not to result in
 rejection of any claim for damages as the present is a case for consideration
 of full compensation based on the principles in Rookes v Barnard ([1964] 1
 ALL E.R. 367). The said decision also makes it clear that the means of parties
 would by itself have no bearing on the grant or non-grant of punitive damages. G. Analysis and Findings 41. Heard. 42. Traditionally, violation of rights in a trademark would take place in
 brick-and-mortar stores where the identity of the infringing party is easily
 determinable. The growth of the internet and the rise of digital commerce have
 significantly transformed the promotion and sale of branded products, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 22 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 creating both opportunities and challenges for IP owners. As with all
 technological advancements, the internet has facilitated both legitimate trade
 and unauthorized exploitation of IP rights. The emergence of e-commerce
 intermediaries, who claim to be distinct from traditional retailers on e-
 commerce platforms, has introduced legal complexities for IP owners in their
 efforts to enforce their rights and seek redress for trademark infringement.
 This distinction has complicated IP enforcement, as such entities often claim
 intermediary status to mitigate liability for the sale of infringing goods.
 Unlike conventional retail models, where accountability for infringement was
 clearly attributable, e-commerce platforms operate within a multi-tiered
 ecosystem, often making it difficult to identify and hold liable those
 responsible for violations. 43. E-commerce platforms, while making products and services more
 easily available and accessible have also posed significant challenges for IP
 owners seeking to protect their brands and marks being infringed through
 online platforms. The proliferation of e-commerce is now here to stay and is
 an irreversible reality, giving rise to a new species of infringement which can
 be termed as 'e-infringement'. In this species of infringement, unlike
 traditional forms of trademark violations, there are multiple parties who could
 be involved in the violation of rights: 44. In e-infringement, the biggest challenge would first be in fixing
 responsibility on each of the parties. There are complex questions which arise
 including issues relating to intermediary liability, entitlement to safe harbour
 protection, as also jurisdictional issues. Clearly, the multi-layered nature of e-
 commerce has made it increasingly difficult to identify, attribute liability, and
 effectively enforce IP rights, necessitating clear legal frameworks to address
 the evolving challenges posed by online trademark infringement. 45. The present case would be one such case which could qualify as an e-
 infringement case. The brand 'Symbol' being used by Defendant No. 2-
 Cloudtail India Private Limited is admittedly owned by Defendant No.1.
 During the proceedings, ld. Counsel appearing for Defendant No.2 had
 appeared for Defendant No.1 on 5th September, 2022 and submitted that
 Defendant No.1 would be willing to suffer a decree of permanent injunction
 and also pay the reasonable damages. The said order is of significance and is
 extracted below: 46. As per the above order, the matter was referred to mediation, however,
 the same did not fructify into a settlement. It is at that stage that Defendant
 No.2 and Defendant No.3 sought to delineate and distinguish their role from
 that of Defendant No.1 leading to a decree being passed against Defendant
 No.2 for a sum of Rs.4,78,484/-. This amount constituted 20% of the sales
 made by Defendant No.2. Defendant No.3 claimed that it is merely an
 intermediary and undertook that whenever there are future listing/s bearing
 the infringing device mark, the same shall be removed, as and when directed
 by the Court. 47. It clearly appears to this Court that, all three companies which are
 closely related to or interlinked with each other have sought to project that
 they are independent of each other, clearly with an intent to avoid fastening
 of liability. The intention of the said Defendants has clearly been to somehow
 diffuse and dissipate the consequences of infringement. 48. None of the Defendants have disputed the rights of the Plaintiffs in
 BHPC trademark including their registration under class 25 which deals with
 apparel products. The list of registrations obtained by the Plaintiffs have been
 exhibited as Exhibit PW1/4 and Defendant No.1 has chosen to ignore the
 present proceedings despite having knowledge of the same. Though, the entity Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 25 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 may be different, it is a matter of public knowledge that the 'www.amazon.in'
 platform is closely linked with Defendant No.1. 49. Written statements have been filed by Defendant No.2 and Defendant
 No.3. The stand of Defendant No.2 is that the impugned logo is not being used
 in a trademark sense. Insofar as the stand of Defendant No.3 is concerned, it
 has submitted that the alleged listings, which the Plaintiffs objected to, have
 been removed. Almost all the averments related to the Plaintiffs' case are
 denied for want of knowledge. Thus, neither written statement raises any
 substantive defence. 50. Considering that on 5th September, 2022, Defendant No.2's Counsel has
 also appeared for Defendant No.1 and the suit already stands decreed qua
 Defendant No.2, the complete absence of any defence qua Defendant No.1 is
 clearly deliberate and conscious. Thus, insofar as the prayer for permanent
 injunction is concerned, the ownership of the BHPC trademark has been
 established and the infringement by the use of a slavishly imitative logo under
 the brand 'Symbol' has also been established. Therefore, this Court is of the
 opinion that the Plaintiffs' rights in the trademark deserve to be protected. The
 Plaintiffs have, during the course of arguments produced one of the products
 which was purchased by them. An image of the said product is set out below: 51. A perusal of the above image would reveal that the logo which has been
 used is hardly distinguishable from the Plaintiffs BHPC logo. The damages
 awarded against Defendant No.2 have in fact been deposited by way of
 demand draft before this Court - thereby clearly acknowledging the rights and
 complying with the decree of damages. The redacted copy of the said
 agreement between Defendant No.1 and Defendant No.2 was directed to be
 disclosed vide order dated 20th April, 2022. As per the said redacted
 agreement which was filed, the brand 'Symbol' clearly is in the ownership of
 Defendant No.1: approved by Amazon in accordance with this
 Agreement; (y) modifications made by Distributor to
 the advertising materials without Amazon's prior
 written approval; and/or (2) Distributor's failure to
 cease the use and distribution of or substitute
 advertising materials or Amazon Marks upon
 Amazon's request." 52. A perusal of the trademark license, liability, and intellectual property
 protection clauses in the Amazon Brand License and Distribution Agreement
 between Defendant No.1 and Defendant No.2 indicates that Amazon retains
 significant control over Cloudtail's branding and distribution activities. In the
 opinion of this Court, the clauses in the Agreement clearly diminish Amazon's
 ability to distance itself from the alleged infringement committed by
 Cloudtail. The contractual restrictions on unauthorized trademark use,
 coupled with indemnification obligations, provide strong legal grounds for the
 Plaintiffs to argue Amazon's direct involvement in trademark infringement.
 The agreement being a license agreement, Defendant No.1 being a licensor
 and Defendant No.2 being a licensee, any infringement or unlawful use by the
 licensee would also affix liability upon the licensor. While licensing the word
 mark SYMBOL, Amazon would be unable to distance itself from the use of
 the accompanying horse logo device mark. Thus, the consequences of
 infringement squarely fall upon the Defendant No.1. The Defendants were
 also directed on 20th April, 2022 to file an affidavit giving the sales figures
 and their inter se relationship at which stage the matter was prayed to be
 referred to mediation. Defendant No.1 was proceeded ex parte on 20th April,
 2022. The inter se relationship has not been satisfactorily explained or placed
 on record by any of the Defendants. Under such circumstances, the Court has Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 31 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 to proceed on the basis that Defendant No.1 being fully aware of the pendency
 of the present litigation has chosen not to file any defence. It has chosen to
 suffer a permanent injunction and, thus, the only question that remains is in
 respect of damages. Analysis of Evidence 53. The evidence has been led by the Plaintiffs of the following witnesses: 54. PW-1 is the Founder of Plaintiff No.1 and the Managing Director of
 Plaintiff No.2. He has personal knowledge of the business of the Plaintiffs.
 He, based on the said personal knowledge, has deposed on the following
 aspects: 55. Deposing on the sales figures, PW - 1 deposed that there are two major
 trademark licensing contracts that were entered into by Plaintiff No.2 - one
 with Major Brands India Pvt. Ltd. and the another with Apparel Group FZCO.
 The first retail store with Major Brands was made operational in December,
 2014. During the first period of operation i.e., from December 2013 to 31st
 July, 2015 (20 months), Major Brands saw a huge success in its sales and
 exceeded the expectation fixed under the TLA. The actual sales made were to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 32 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 the tune of $3,836,326/-. However, immediately from the second year of
 operations there was a dip in the retail sales of BHPC branded products. From
 the period 2015-2016 till 2019-2020, the sales continue to dip. The same is
 set out in PW-1 affidavit and is extracted below: 56. PW-1 had deposed to state he has personal access to the Plaintiffs
 company's data and despite no substantial change being effected either in the
 price, the design or the quality, the sales continued to dip. 57. According to PW-1, the fall in sales was due to the infringement by the
 defendants which was detected only in May, 2020, when a search was
 conducted on platform 'www.amazon.in'. According to PW-1, purchases on
 e-commerce platforms are based on images shown to the consumers and the
 same can be easily confused. The BHPC brand is immediately identified with
 the BHPC logo. The defendants by offering products with the logo device
 which is a close dishonest imitation of the BHPC logo has caused the fall in
 sales. 58. PW-1 also deposes that the Defendants engage in predatory pricing.
 The price of the Plaintiffs' branded apparel was between Rs.2,500/- to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 33 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 Rs.4,500/- whereas the average retail price of the Defendants' product was
 Rs. 375/- or Rs.399/-. According the Plaintiffs, www.amazon.in, one of the
 largest e-commerce platforms for retailing of apparel, completely destroyed
 the BHPC's brand by offering infringing goods at throw-away prices. The
 Plaintiffs' sales completely took a hit. This according to PW-1 also led to
 destruction of the market of the Plaintiffs' licensee and disabled the Plaintiffs'
 licensee from achieving its targets under the TLA with the Plaintiffs. 59. PW-1 contrasts the falling sales figures in India with that of the other
 licensee for the Gulf region wherein the sales during the same very period
 multiplied almost 10 times. The actual sale figures for the GCC region are set
 out below: According to PW-1, there is no infringement in the GCC region in the manner
 as was indulged in by Amazon in India. 60. PW-1 deposes that apart from the fall in the actual sales, such kind of
 pricing led to complete dilution of the Plaintiffs' brand not merely on online
 platforms but even in the normal retail brick and mortar stores. This is
 because, the association of the BHPC brand was changed from being a luxury
 brand to a cheap brand among the target consumers. The sale of such Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 34 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 infringing goods according to the Plaintiff completely destroyed the mark of
 Major Brands i.e., its licensee. PW-1 also deposes that a platform like
 Amazon, which is so popular amongst consumers, indulging in such large-
 scale infringing activity on its online e-commerce website, resulted in shaking
 the very foundation of the Plaintiffs' business. 61. PW-1 also highlights the business tie-up of Amazon with another
 competitor i.e., the U.S. Polo Association which has also benefitted from its
 listings on Amazon. In furtherance of this allegation, PW-1 states that while
 in the GCC region there are 120 stores retailing the BHPC branded products
 as against 35 stores of U.S. Polo Association, in India only 20 stores of BHPC
 brand products exists as against 350 stores of U.S. Polo Association. 62. Thus, according to the PW-1, the benefit to defendants was three-fold.
 The said benefits include: 63. Lastly, PW-1 also deposes that the Defendant No.1 was not an innocent
 infringer. He relies on a Reuters publication dated 13th October, 2021, which
 analysed a systematic campaign allegedly undertaken by Defendant No. 1,
 involving the creation of counterfeit goods and the manipulation of search
 results. 64. PW-1 relies upon the quantification of damages by an independent
 expert Mr. Gaganpreet Singh Puri-PW-3. PW-1, further, deposes that its
 proposed joint venture with a retail partner was also completely destroyed due
 to the violations indulged into by the Defendants. According to PW-1, had this Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 35 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 intended collaboration materialised, the Plaintiffs would have benefitted with
 substantial financial gains. It is the claim of PW-1 that on account of the
 infringing activities of the Defendant, the Retail Partners did not proceed with
 the collaboration, directly resulting in lost enterprise value for the Plaintiffs.
 In respect of the lost opportunity to pursue the joint venture with retails
 partners and floating an Initial Public Offering (IPO), PW-1 has claimed
 reasonable compensation to the tune of USD 50 million dollars, estimated as
 the Plaintiff's share of the lost enterprise value from the proposed joint
 venture. The PW-1 has quantified economic damages at USD 33.78 million
 on the basis of business plan sales and USD 21.85 million on the basis of
 minimum sales in terms of the TLA. In addition, PW-1 highlights that the
 unauthorized activities of the Defendant had a cascading effect on the
 Plaintiffs' regional expansion plans. PW-1 has deposed to say that the
 Plaintiffs had intended to extend operations into Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and
 Pakistan, expecting to generate at least half the royalties projected from India.
 However, on account of the disruptive market conditions caused the
 infringement, the said expansion efforts were thwarted. As a result, PW-1
 claims compensation for lost royalty earnings between USD 16.89 million
 and USD 10.93 million. PW-1 also deposes to say that the Plaintiffs suffered
 substantial reputational harm, leading to a loss of trust and confidence among
 Retail Partners and also consumers. In addition, PW-1 has specifically
 claimed that the Plaintiffs have been forced to increase marketing
 expenditures to rebuild customer confidence in the BHPC brand and marks,
 which had been severely damaged by the Defendants' actions. As
 compensation for these additional marketing costs, PW-1 claims
 compensatory damages amounting to USD 5 million dollars. Additionally, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 36 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 Plaintiffs seek a further USD 5 million as reasonable compensation for the
 diminished goodwill and reputation caused by the infringing activities. G2. Evidence of PW-2 - Mr. Sanjay Shetty 65. PW-2, Mr. Sanjay Shetty, was an official from Major Brands (India)
 Pvt. Ltd., one of the licensees which was also dealing with other brands such
 as Aldo, Mango, Bebe and Nine West etc., The said PW-2 - Mr. Sanjay Shetty
 was handling operations under the BHPC brands since 2014 and had personal
 knowledge of the various retail stores, etc., under the BHPC brand. As per his
 evidence, the company Major Brands, now called as Apparel Group India, had
 opened more than 100 retail stores in India for various retail products
 including apparel products. Therefore, PW-2 claimed to have first-hand
 knowledge of consumer trends in the Indian fashion market and testified
 regarding the same. 66. PW-2 deposed on how the target customer perceives brands worn by
 them. The social appeal of a brand, according to PW-2, is also judged by its
 pricing along with the market image. Even quality is judged based on the
 pricing of the product. There is a presumption that cheaper priced products
 are associated with low quality and higher priced products are associated with
 high quality. According to him, luxury brands command respect. As per PW-
 2, counterfeiting results in credibility of the brand being destroyed. Usually,
 luxury brands do not offer products on discounts. According to PW-2, BHPC
 products were positioned as affordable luxury products. The target audience
 and the customer base majorly constituted of upwardly mobile young urban
 professionals who wanted to follow the trends in the market within a certain
 price range. 67. According to PW-2, BHPC was specifically positioned between its two
 competitors, U.S. Polo Association and Ralph Lauren Polo Company. The
 TLA with Apparel Group India provided a clause that required/mandated the
 licensee to achieve business plan sales and minimum sales based on which
 royalties would be paid. Online shopping, according to PW-2, has disrupted
 the retail fashion industry with the penetration of mobile phones. However,
 online shopping makes it difficult for brands to control quality and pricing. In
 view thereof, many brands have chosen not to engage in online business. 68. In the first year of operations, the business did very well. However,
 thereafter the sale plummeted and as per PW-2, the infringement by the
 Defendants was one of the major causes for the same. PW-2 has also reiterated
 the evidence given by PW-1 by contrasting the fallen sales figures in the India
 region with those in GCC region which rose considerably during the same
 period. G3. Evidence of PW-3 - Mr. Gaganpreet Singh Puri 69. PW-3 is a Chartered Accountant with 20 years of experience. He
 deposed with regards to the different models for computation of damages.
 PW-3 has, thus, deposed as an independent expert for quantification of
 economic losses. The quantification is based on three separate periods i.e.: 70. PW-3 has applied various models for the purpose of computing the
 losses suffered and the damages that the Plaintiffs are entitled. For the said
 purpose, PW-3 has positioned the Plaintiffs in the following manner: 71. In order to compute the damages, PW-3 has taken the TLA as the basis
 and applied the prescribed percentage of royalty to estimate the economic loss
 suffered by the Plaintiffs. For the computation of the 'but-for' performance
 scenario, PW-3 has considered actual sales data for the period between 1 st
 August, 2015, and 31st July, 2020, adjusting for operational delays that
 occurred at the inception of BHPC's business in India. Additionally, for a
 market-based assessment, PW-3 has incorporated industry literature and
 insights from the Indian Fashion Market, including the Wazir Report dated
 14th June, 2020, to validate the projected sales trends and market positioning
 of BHPC. 72. As per PW-3, the total estimate of sales, after computing the 'but-for'
 position of the Plaintiffs, for all the years from 2015-16 to 2023-24, would
 have been approximately $343 million dollars. PW-3 has also thereafter
 computed the same on the basis of actual plus simulated performance and has
 arrived at the conclusion that the Plaintiffs would be entitled to $21.85 million
 dollars based on minimum sales criteria prescribed under TLA and $33.78 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 39 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 million dollars based on the business sales plan criteria prescribed under TLA.
 The summary of the computation as set out by the PW-3 is extracted below: Further, the TLA also sets out the quantum of Minimum
 Sales of USD 25 .00 Million to be achieved until the 10th
 year of business i.e., BY 2023-24." G4. Evidence of PW-4 - Mr. Arvind Dhingra 73. PW-4 is an independent expert engaged by the Plaintiffs to assess the
 impact of the Defendants' alleged infringing activities on the business
 performance of BHPC. He has deposed that the infringing activities of the
 Defendants resulted in a significant decline in the business of BHPC in India.
 In his evidence, he concludes as under: G5. Evidence of PW-5 - Mr. Gavin Rawling 74. PW-5 is also an independent expert who has 30 years of experience in
 branded fashion business. He has deposed about his experience in this
 business and how during his tenure as a Consultant with TKMAXX Stores,
 he gained first-hand knowledge of both e-commerce as also the concept of
 selling branded apparel, accessories, footwear both at original and discounted Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 43 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 prices. He also had experience in dealing with counterfeit products. He
 acknowledges the shift in dynamics of brand building strategies with the
 advent of e-commerce. PW-5 states that the four factors that result in damage
 to brands in online platforms are: 75. PW-5's also states that there can be detrimental impact on luxury brands
 due to deep discounting. He emphasizes that discounting of branded products,
 whether by the brand itself or by authorized retailers, can lead to severe brand
 erosion and, in some cases, extinction. Drawing from his experience with G-
 Star Raw, a premium denim brand, he explains that indiscriminate discounting
 significantly reduces perceived brand value, making it difficult for luxury
 brands to sustain their premium market positioning. According to him, deep-
 discounting of branded products could lead to enormous damage and even to
 extinction of brands. 76. With regards to the impact of copying of brands/trademarks, PW-5
 provided a specific example of a popular high street fashion brand, which
 suffered significant dilution due to large-scale imitation of its trademark and
 distinctive design elements. He notes that rampant, large-scale infringement
 can erode a brand's exclusivity and diminish its aspirational appeal, which is
 critical for maintaining the prestige of premium and luxury brands. 77. Insofar the BHPC brand is concerned, PW-5 sets out the information
 which he has learnt from the Plaintiffs. He deposes that the Horse and Polo
 Player logo of BHPC is identical to the logo used by the infringing products,
 which leads to consumer confusion and brand dilution. According to PW-5,
 the use of nearly identical logo in the infringing products which are being sold
 at less than 10% of the original price leads to skewing of the FQPB (Fashion,
 Quality, Price, and Brand) quotient, which is a key metric used to assess brand
 positioning and market perception. The relevant paragraphs from his affidavit
 are set out below: device on the Impugned Products is identical to the
 "horse-and-polo player" device of the Beverly Hills
 Polo Club Brand. Therefore, for the purpose of my
 opinion, I would consider that these two marks would
 be found to be nearly identical to each other, although
 I do not express any opinion on that point, which
 would be for the lawyers to show. Once apparel
 products bearing such near identical logos are
 available to consumers, the market for the original
 products at full price is lost. 120. Therefore, as soon as a consumer would start
 relating the Impugned Products with the genuine /
 original products of the Plaintiffs under the Beverly
 Hills Polo Club Brand, it would immediately ring the
 'death-knell' for the Beverly Hills Polo Club Brand in
 India. Clearly, if the genuine apparel under the
 Beverly Hills Polo Club Brand in India was being sold
 in the range of Rs.3,000 and Rs.4,000, and the
 Impugned Products were being sold in the price band
 of Rs.375, almost an 80% to 90% cut, you can consider
 the original brand as destroyed. The 'FQPB' (the level
 of Fashion, Quality, Price and Brand) quotient of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 45 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 Beverly Hills Polo Club Brand becomes totally skewed
 in a negative manner. 121.1 would consider the problem to stand aggravated
 when I consider that an Amazon-entity (Amazon
 Technologies) was carrying out these activities on a
 platform owned by the same platform along with
 assistance from local subsidiary Amazon Seller
 Services Private Limited. This is because the traction
 and leverage that products of Amazon entities get on
 Amazon ecommerce platforms is second to none. This
 would have led to higher visibility of the Impugned
 Products to end-consumers, and heightened the
 possibility and extent of damage that the Impugned
 Products could have caused to the Beverly Hills Polo
 Club Brand in India. A parallel can clearly be drawn
 between the paid services offered by Google on its
 search-engine platform. The decline in sales numbers
 for the Beverly Hills Polo Club Brand in India for the
 period July 2015 to July 2020 evidence that such
 damage did occur and that the impact of such
 activities was severe. I have no doubt that such decline
 in sales was caused by the availability of the Impugned
 Products in the market." 78. PW-5 further deposes to state that the visibility of deep-discounted
 infringing products on a dominant e-commerce platform like Amazon
 exacerbates the damage. He drew parallels to paid search advertising on
 Google, emphasizing that platform-owned brands or preferred listings gain
 disproportionate consumer traction, thereby amplifying the extent of harm
 caused to established brands like BHPC. PW-5 concludes to state that the
 decline in sales figures for BHPC in India from July 2015 to July 2020 is clear
 evidence of the severe damage caused by the Defendants' infringing activities,
 leaving no doubt that the availability of counterfeit and deeply discounted
 products directly impacted the Plaintiffs' business. PW-5 also states that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 46 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 goodwill of the Plaintiffs has gotten eroded on account of deep-discounting
 by Amazon, with the use of the infringing logo by Amazon a direct attack on
 the Plaintiffs brand. H. Findings 79. The Court has perused the pleadings, the documents placed on record
 and the evidence led by the Plaintiffs. As already discussed above, the
 Defendant No.1 has failed to contest the suit though it has complete
 knowledge of the proceedings of the suit. In fact, counsel for Defendant no.2
 had appeared for Defendant no.1 and made submissions before the Court.
 Thus, the pendency of the suit is well within Defendant no.1's knowledge.
 The infringing products were being sold in India and thus this Court is a Court
 of a competent jurisdiction. Defendant No.2 and Defendant No.3 are the
 retailers and the platforms respectively who have already suffered a
 permanent injunction. Defendant No.2 has in fact suffered a decree of
 monetary damages and has complied with it by depositing the said amount in
 the Court. As is evident from the order dated 5th September, 2022, Defendant
 Nos.1 and 2 are connected as Defendant No.2's Counsel represented
 Defendant No.1 in the said hearing and stated in no uncertain terms the
 Defendant No.1 is willing to suffer a permanent injunction. In the absence of
 any defence or challenge to the ownership of the brand and the infringing
 conduct complained of, the Court could have in fact pronounced judgment
 even without evidence in terms of the provisions of Order VIII Rule 10 CPC as also Rule 27 of the Delhi High Court Intellectual Property Division Rules,
 2022 (hereinafter 'IPD Rules'). As per Rule 27 of the IPD Rules, this Court
 was empowered to pass a summary judgment, without the requirement of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 47 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 filing a specific application seeking summary judgment on principles similar
 to that of Order XIII-A, CPC as amended by Commercial Courts Act, 2015 . 80. The Plaintiffs have, however, claimed damages in the present suit and
 considering the sheer expanse of Amazon's activities globally and in India,
 the Plaintiffs have chosen to lead evidence in the matter for quantifying actual
 damages. The evidence of all the five witnesses has been summarized above
 by this Court. On behalf of the Plaintiffs, two witnesses i.e., PW-1 and PW-2
 have deposed - both of whom had personal knowledge as to vital aspects such
 as reputation of the plaintiffs' brand, their consumer base, licensing models,
 trademark registrations and sale figures etc. They have deposed in respect of
 the activities of the Plaintiffs, the rights owned by the Plaintiffs, the
 agreements entered into and the claim for damages. A perusal of the infringing
 marks and products shows that this is a case where the 'TRIPLE IDENTITY
 TEST' for determining if a trademark has been infringed, has been satisfied: 81. Insofar as the aspect of damages is concerned, this Court has given
 considerable thought to this aspect. With the advent of e-commerce platforms,
 selling of goods and services in the traditional manner has almost been
 disrupted. Consumers prefer to buy from the comforts of their homes. The
 emphasis is on quick reviewing, ordering and delivery. As time is at a
 premium, sales through e-commerce platforms have not merely risen but
 grown to astronomical limits. One of the biggest players in the e-commerce
 industry globally is Amazon. Defendant No.1 - Amazon Technologies Inc.
 has its headquarters at Seattle, U.S.A. but runs its e-commerce businesses in
 several countries of the world including in India. In most major markets, the
 Amazon platform runs on a country-based website through its subsidiaries,
 associate companies or group companies. The platform www.amazon.in like
 other e-commerce platforms would be selling at least two kinds of products
 on its website i.e., i) Products belonging to third party retailers who are no way
 connected with any of its group or associate companies, ii) Products which are retailed under brands belonging to the
 principal company - Amazon Technologies Inc. or group
 companies or associate companies or subsidiaries. 82. In the present case, the Defendants have failed to disclose the exact
 relationship between each other despite specific orders. However, the
 admitted position is that the brand 'Symbol' belongs to Defendant No.1. It
 was licensed to Defendant No.2 under the Amazon Brand License and
 Distribution Agreement. Defendant No.3 is also a company which is part of
 the Amazon group. 83. The use of the impugned logo/mark is not in dispute. Defendant No.2
 and Defendant No.3 have already suffered a permanent injunction. This Court
 has also injuncted Defendant No.1. The question is whether Defendant No.1
 would be liable to pay damages for such blatant infringement on the e-
 commerce platform which can also be termed as e-infringement, as it was the
 entity which was responsible for the infringing conduct of Defendant No.2 on
 Defendant No.3's platform. The answer is clearly in the affirmative. I. Assessment of Damages 84. It is the settled position in law that whenever infringement is proved,
 the Plaintiffs are entitled to damages. The fundamental principle underlying
 the grant of damages is to compensate the Plaintiff for the economic loss
 suffered on account of the unauthorized use of its trade mark. Under Section
 135 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, the Plaintiffs have the option of claiming
 either damages or rendition of accounts of profits, ensuring that they are
 adequately compensated for the unlawful exploitation of their trademark. The
 said provision reads as under: section (1), the court shall not grant relief by way of
 damages (other than nominal damages) or on
 account of profits in any case-- (a) where in a suit for infringement of a trade
 mark, the infringement complained of is in relation
 to a certification trade mark or collective mark; or (b) where in a suit for infringement the defendant
 satisfies the court-- (i) that at the time he commenced to use the
 trade mark complained of in the suit, he was
 unaware and had no reasonable ground for
 believing that the trade mark of the plaintiff
 was on the register or that the plaintiff was a
 registered user using by way of permitted use; and (ii) that when he became aware of the
 existence and nature of the plaintiff's right in
 the trade mark, he forthwith ceased to use the
 trade mark in relation to goods or services in
 respect of which it was registered; or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 51 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 (c) where in a suit for passing off, the defendant
 satisfies the court-- (i) that at the time he commenced to use the
 trade mark complained of in the suit, he was
 unaware and had no reasonable ground for
 believing that the trade mark for the plaintiff
 was in use; and (ii) that when he became aware of the
 existence and nature of the plaintiff's trade
 mark he forthwith ceased to use the trade mark
 complained of." 85. In Titan Industries v. Nitin P. Jain and Ors., MANU/DE/2590/2005 ,
 a ld. Single Judge of this Court has highlighted that in trademark infringement
 suits, instituted either under the Trade Marks and Merchandise Act, 1958 or
 the Trade Marks Act, 1999 , Plaintiffs have the option to claim either damages
 or an account of profits. The said judgment also reiterated that damages are a
 matter of right, whereas an account of profits is an equitable remedy, granted
 at the Court's discretion. The relevant extract of the said judgment reads is set
 out below: 86. In the present case, the Plaintiffs have initially prayed for both damages
 and rendition of account of profits. However, the Plaintiffs have led evidence
 only in respect of damages and do not press the relief of rendition of account
 of profits. Moreover, since Defendant No.1 has not filed its defence or
 submitted its sales figures, the accounts of profits are not determinable.
 Accordingly, this Court shall assess damages based on the financial harm
 suffered by the Plaintiffs, rather than conducting an inquiry into the
 Defendant's profits. The general principles for assessment of damages have
 been set out succinctly in Kerly's Law Trade Marks and Trade Names (15th
 ed.). The relevant portion of the same is set out below: 20-140 Jacob J. also held as part of principle (5)
 that a claimant who obtains damages for sales by
 the defendant which he has proved would have been
 made by him in the absence of the infringement, will Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 53 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 be entitled to damages on the basis of a reasonable
 royalty for all the other infringements. With regards
 trade mark cases it has been doubted whether this
 particular principle applies to all types of trade
 mark cases. However, in a recent Patents County
 Court trade mark infringement case damages were
 awarded on a user basis (i.e. notional royalty fees
 were awarded) in circumstances where the trade
 mark proprietor had licensed others to use the trade
 mark and charged for its use. 20-141 It is important to note that in assessing
 damages for lost sales on a usual compensatory
 basis, it will be necessary for the court to determine
 what proportion of the defendant's customers have
 been confused (as opposed to assessment on a user
 basis). On this basis the claimant is not entitled to
 damages for sales to persons who have not been
 misled, since he has suffered no loss in respect of
 them, and, arguably, no actionable wrong has been
 committed in respect of sales to them. If he were to
 recover damages in relation to such persons, he
 would be over-compensated. OTHER HEADS OF DAMAGE
 20-142 In general, the only injury which is done by
 an infringement is that the defendant's goods or
 services are sold instead of those of the claimant,
 and the sale of the latter is, in some degree,
 diminished in consequence. But it may appear that
 further damage has been done, for instance, where
 spurious goods are so inferior to the genuine as to
 injure the trade reputation of the claimant, or where
 the stress of the competition compels the claimant
 to lower his prices and thus suffer loss. 20-143 The cost of advertisements to counteract the
 effect of the defendant's conduct may be taken into
 account. Further, the legal costs of putting on notice
 foreign manufacturers of infringing materials have
 been held recoverable. 20-144 In the area of damages for patent
 infringement it has been held that, provided
 causation is shown, and subject to the normal rules
 as to remoteness of damage, it is possible to recover
 damages for items sold as a result of an infringing
 sale, even if such ancillary items do not themselves
 infringe. There appears no reason why this
 principle should not apply to trade mark
 infringement in appropriate circumstances. " 87. Then the next question would be what should then be the quantum of
 damages--i.e., what should be the appropriate measure of compensation?
 Damages can be broadly classified into three kinds: 88. Notional damages are awarded where infringement is proven but direct
 evidence of financial loss is unavailable. Compensatory damages are intended
 to restore the plaintiff to the position it would have been in but for the
 infringement, often assessed based on lost profits or reasonable royalty rates.
 Punitive damages serve as a deterrent in cases of egregious or wilful
 infringement. 89. The Delhi High Court Intellectual Property Rights Division Rules,
 2022, under Rule 20, lays down the relevant factors for determining the award
 of damages, based on settled principles of law. Rule 20 specifically outlines
 the methodology for assessing damages: 90. The law on damages in trade mark infringement matters, has been well
 settled by the ld. Division Bench of this Court in Hindustan Unilever Limited (Supra). Given that a significant portion of the submissions in this matter have
 been directed towards the request for the grant of punitive damages, this Court
 shall also review the legal framework for punitive damages as given in Hindustan Unilever Limited (Supra). The relevant portions of the said
 judgment is set out below: This Court feels that this approach is
 necessitated further for the reason that it is very
 difficult for a plaintiff to give proof of actual
 damages suffered by him as the defendants who
 indulge in such activities never maintain proper
 accounts of their transactions since they know
 that the same are objectionable and unlawful. In
 the present case, the claim of punitive damages
 is of Rs.5 lacs only which can be safely
 awarded. Had it been higher even, this court
 would not have hesitated in awarding the same. This Court is of the view that the punitive
 damages should be really punitive and not flee
 bite and quantum thereof should depend upon
 the flagrancy of infringement." With due respect, this Court is unable to subscribe to
 that reasoning, which flies on the face of the
 circumstances spelt out in Rookes and later affirmed
 in Cassel. Both those judgments have received
 approval by the Supreme Court and are the law of
 the land. The reasoning of the House of Lords in
 those decisions is categorical about the
 circumstances under which punitive damages can
 be awarded. An added difficulty in holding that every Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 60 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 violation of statute can result in punitive damages
 and proceeding to apply it in cases involving
 economic or commercial causes, such as intellectual
 property and not in other such matters, would be that
 even though statutes might provide penalties, prison
 sentences and fines (like under the Trademarks Act,
 the Copyrights Act, Designs Act, etc) and such
 provisions invariably cap the amount of fine,
 sentence or statutory compensation, civil courts can
 nevertheless proceed unhindered, on the assumption
 that such causes involve criminal propensity, and
 award "punitive" damages despite the plaintiff‟s
 inability to prove any general damage. Further, the
 reasoning that "one function of punitive damages is
 to relieve the pressure on an overloaded system of
 criminal justice by providing a civil alternative to
 criminal prosecution of minor crimes" is plainly
 wrong, because where the law provides that a crime
 is committed, it indicates the punishment. No statute
 authorizes the punishment of anyone for a libel- or
 infringement of trademark with a huge monetary
 fine-which goes not to the public exchequer, but to
 private coffers. Moreover, penalties and offences
 wherever prescribed require the prosecution to prove
 them without reasonable doubt. Therefore, to say
 that civil alternative to an overloaded criminal
 justice system is in public interest would be in fact to
 sanction violation of the law. This can also lead to
 undesirable results such as casual and unprincipled
 and eventually disproportionate awards. Consequently, this court declares that the reasoning
 and formulation of law enabling courts to
 determine punitive damages, based on the ruling in
 Lokesh Srivastava and Microsoft Corporation v. Yogesh Papat and Another, 2005 (30) PTC 245
 (Del) is without authority. Those decisions are
 accordingly overruled. To award punitive damages,
 the courts should follow the categorization indicated Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 61 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 in Rookes (supra) and further grant such damages
 only after being satisfied that the damages awarded
 for the wrongdoing is inadequate in the
 circumstances, having regard to the three categories
 in Rookes and also following the five principles in
 Cassel. The danger of not following this step by step
 reasoning would be ad hoc judge centric award of
 damages, without discussion of the extent of harm or
 injury suffered by the plaintiff, on a mere whim that
 the defendant's action is so wrong that it has a
 "criminal" propensity or the case merely falls in one
 of the three categories mentioned in Rookes (to quote
 Cassel again - such event "does not of itself entitle
 the jury to award damages purely exemplary in
 character")." 91. In the above decision, the Division Bench has held that the principles
 laid down by the House of Lords in the decisions in Rookes v. Barnard,
 [1964] 1 All E. R. 367 and Cassell & Co Ltd v Broome, [1992] AC 1027
 govern the award of punitive damages. In Rookes (supra), the House of Lords
 laid down that aggravated or punitive damages could be granted in the
 following three circumstances:- 92. In view of the decision in Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra)
 discussed above, punitive damages can be awarded only under certain
 circumstances. However, there is no bar on award of notional damages and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 62 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 compensatory damages in case of infringement of a brand or a logo. The
 award of damages has to be on the basis of evidence which shows the extent
 of damage and the same can also be in approximate terms. In Story
 Parchment Co. v. Paterson Parchment Paper Co., reported at 51 S.Ct. 248,
 a decision which the Division Bench in Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra)
 has considered. The relevant observations in Story Parchment are as under: Thus, damages can be awarded on an approximate basis on reasonable
 inference. 93. In Strix Ltd v. Maharaja Appliances Limited , 2023:DHC:7695, this
 Court reaffirmed the settled legal position of law on damages in IP
 infringement suits In Strix Ltd. (supra) relying on the decision of the UK
 Court of Appeal in Gerber Garment Technology Inc. v. Lectra Systems Ltd.,
 [1997] R.P.C. 443, this Court held that in respect of patent infringement suits, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 63 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 if the patentee cannot prove their losses on actual basis, it is permissible to
 assess the same on a reasonable royalty basis. The relevant extract of the
 judgment of this Court in Strix Ltd. (supra) is set out below: 94. In Kerly's Law on Trade Marks and Trade Names, it has been
 recognised that the guidance on calculation of damages provided by Lord
 Justice Robin Jacob in Gerber Garment Technology Inc. (supra) can also
 be used for determination of damages in trademark infringement suits. 95. In contrast to the factual matrix in Strix Ltd. (supra), where the Court
 had to rely on a broad assessment due to the absence of quantifiable evidence,
 in the present case, financial data has been provided by the Plaintiffs. The
 Plaintiffs have led specific evidence through PW-3, who has quantified the
 financial losses suffered by the Plaintiffs. This enables the Court to have an
 actual assessment of the economic harm caused by the Defendant's infringing
 activities. Given the availability of such evidence, the determination of
 damages in this case does not rest on presumptions but on a factual evaluation
 of the losses incurred, ensuring appropriate redressal for the plaintiff. 96. The discussion in Strix (supra) establishes that while assessing
 damages, the Court can take into consideration various factors. The ultimate
 object of the enquiry on damages would be to compensate the Plaintiffs for
 the harm that it has suffered and to ensure that they do not incur economic
 losses on account of the infringing actions of the Defendant. Accordingly, for
 the determination of the compensation payable to the Plaintiffs as Damages,
 this Court shall take into account the following factors: 97. The Plaintiffs have led the evidence of three independent witnesses
 who have deposed on various aspects which have been summarized above.
 The Division Bench of this Court in Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra) has
 recognised that if the Defendant's conduct is mala fide, higher damages can
 be awarded. The said position has also been reaffirmed by this Court in Whatman International Limited vs P Mehta & Ors. , 2019:DHC:676. The
 relevant extract from the said decision is set out below: 98. Applying the above stated principles to the present case, this Court shall
 now examine the extent and nature of the infringement, the degree of
 culpability of the Defendants, and the quantification of damages necessary to
 adequately compensate the Plaintiffs. Some of the important aspects that this
 Court now considers in the enquiry on damages are as under: 99. Defendant No.1 is also in the apparel trade by owning the mark
 'SYMBOL' under which the garments are sold. The infringing horse logo was
 used on 'Symbol' branded apparel. It is a known fact that Defendant No.1 is
 one of the most dominant players in the e-commerce space. Consequently,
 Defendant No.1 possesses ways and means to utilize its dominant presence in
 the e-commerce space to promote its own products as also products which it
 might otherwise wish to promote. Defendant No.1 also has the leverage
 through its own platforms to dilute Plaintiff's brand/logo by indulging in
 deep-discounting of its own products which compete with the Plaintiff by
 using a similar mark/logo. In the present facts, the Defendant is placing
 products priced at 10% of the Plaintiffs' product cost. Further, it is also evident
 that Defendant No.1 is engaging in a deliberate strategy of obfuscation,
 pretending to wear different hats--one as an intermediary, one as a retailer,
 and one as a brand owner - all in an attempt to shift responsibility and evade
 liability for trademark infringement. However, it is well known reality that all
 three Defendants belong to the Amazon Group of Companies and operate as
 a cohesive commercial entity. Defendant No.1 has selectively chosen when to
 appear and not appear before the Court. At a time when the Court directed
 vide order dated 20th April, 2022 to explain the exact relationship between the
 three Defendants, it agreed to suffer a permanent injunction, thereby evading
 scrutiny. Thus, the clear attempt is to not disclose the exact relationship 1 Lifestyle Equities CV and another (Respondents) v Amazon UK Services Ltd and others (Appellants), [2024]
 UKSC 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 68 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 between the said three Defendants to this Court. Accordingly, in the opinion
 of this Court, this is not a bona fide conduct of a party before the Court and
 the conduct of the Defendant clearly demonstrates that there is an intent to
 withhold crucial information from the Court, rather than engage in bona fide
 conduct as expected of a party before a judicial forum. 100. Defendant No.1 also chose not to even file its defence before the Court.
 It is not disputed that it owns the `Symbol' brand which it has permitted
 Defendant No.2 to use. Some of the trademark registrations of the mark
 SYMBOL are set out below: 101. The agreement between Defendant No.1 and Defendant No.2 reveals
 that Defendant No.1 retains control over the trademark usage, licensing, and
 distribution of the infringing mark, thereby making it directly liable for the
 unauthorized use of the Plaintiffs' mark. This agreement is demonstrative of
 the direct commercial and operational nexus between the Defendants, making Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 69 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 it evident that Defendant No.1 cannot escape liability under the guise of being
 a mere intermediary. 102. Apart from the above factors which exhibits the conduct of Defendant
 No.1, there are some further factors which are also required to be considered
 while computing damages in a case of this nature: 5 goes to the extent of saying that such infringement can lead a brand
 to the brink of extinction; viii) Sale of products on huge discounts could completely lead the
 consumer to start de-testing the brand as it could lead to negative
 social impact linked with law quality and low price. 103. The factors set out above led this Court to conclude that the Plaintiffs
 are entitled to damages both as compensation as also on lost sales and royalty.
 Unlike in most other cases where the Court is expected to make estimates of
 such amounts, in the present case the Trade Mark License Agreement between
 the Plaintiffs and major brands which was the licensee for the Indian and
 neighbouring markets gives sufficient basis to calculate the damages that
 ought to be awarded. The relevant clauses of the Agreement read: 104. The clause relating to royalties is relevant and is set out below: 105. As per the said agreement dated 08th November, 2012, the agreement
 was for an initial term and three terms for renewal. The initial term
 commenced in 2013 and the renewal terms was a three successive five-year
 term commencing from 01st August, 2018 after the initial term of five years.
 Thus, the total contemplated period of term of the agreement was;
 • Initial term 01st January, 2013 to 31st July, 2018.
 • Renewal term - every five years commencing on 01st August, 2018
 finally to terminate 31st July, 2033. 106. The agreement also provides that one of the reasons for termination
 could be if annual minimum sales are not achieved as per Clause 8.1. It has
 come in evidence that in the first year, the sales achieved were beyond what
 was prescribed in the agreement. 107. However, from the second year onwards i.e., 2015 onwards, the sales
 started to plummet. Though the Plaintiffs detected the online infringement in
 2020, it has now come on record that the Defendants were using the infringing
 logo/mark since 2015. 108. The evidence also points out that the sales made by the Defendants
 under the infringing logo were at extremely low prices, thereby eroding the
 brand value of the Plaintiffs. Thus, without even going into the complicated
 analysis as to how to quantify damages, one of the simplest ways in which the
 damages can be assessed in this case is by quantifying the lost royalties to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 73 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 Plaintiffs. If the same is taken at the minimum in terms of the license
 agreement with the bonus royalties as per Clause 4.1(b), the Plaintiffs have
 lost a substantial amount of royalties. The expert who has given evidence i.e.,
 PW-3 has quantified the same for a period of ten years i.e., 2015 to 2024. He
 has quantified the same in the following manner: 109. The said quantification is based on minimum sales. However, on the
 basis of business plan sales, PW-3 has quantified the same as under: In fact, a perusal of the TLA would show that if the required sales are not
 achieved, the same could even lead to termination of the agreement. The
 consequences of online infringement which the Defendants have indulged in,
 is in the opinion of this Court totally immeasurable. The erosion of the brand
 value and the unseen profits that the Defendants may have earned due to their
 own sales under the brand SYMBOL and other competitors of the Plaintiff,
 who also sought to benefit due to the present infringement would in the
 opinion of this Court also entitle the Plaintiffs to punitive damages. However,
 since the said figures are not available, the Court merely restricts its inquiry
 based on the exhibited documents on record i.e., the Trademark Licensing
 Agreement. 111. The Plaintiff's claim for damages as filed with the written submissions
 is as under: 112. Plaintiffs have also demonstrated through PW-1's testimony that they
 were compelled to increase their marketing expenditures to counteract the
 adverse effects of infringement by the Defendants. According to PW-1, the
 need for enhanced advertising and promotional efforts to restore consumer
 confidence in the BHPC brand was a direct and foreseeable consequence of
 the trademark infringement by the Defendants. As held by the Division Bench
 in Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra), damages on account of increased
 advertising and promotional expenses are liable to be granted as relief,
 particularly in cases where the wrongful act has had a direct impact on the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 77 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 brand's market perception and necessitated remedial advertising efforts.
 Accordingly, this Court holds that additional compensatory damages on
 account of increased advertising and marketing expenses to the tune of USD
 5 million are liable to be granted in favour of the Plaintiff. 113. The Plaintiffs have also claimed damages on account loss of goodwill
 and reputation. The claim for damages on account of dilution, tarnishment,
 and loss of goodwill, though significant, remains speculative and cannot be
 precisely computed based on the evidence presented. The Plaintiffs have
 sought compensation amounting to USD 5 million as compensation for the
 alleged diminution of goodwill and reputation resulting from the infringing
 activities of the Defendant. However, while damage to brand reputation is
 indeed be a foreseeable consequence of infringement, the Plaintiffs have not
 provided concrete evidence to establish the quantifiable financial impact of
 such dilution on their business. As recognized in Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra), damages must be grounded in provable loss, and speculative claims
 cannot form the basis of monetary relief. Consequently, apart from the
 awarded compensatory damages, no further amounts are being granted. 114. The Plaintiffs have also claimed USD 50 million as compensation for
 the loss of opportunity to enter into a joint venture and launch an Initial Public
 Offering ('IPO'). However, such claims are contingent upon multiple external
 market variables, including investment conditions, regulatory approvals, and
 business negotiations. Damages ought to be compensatory and arising out of
 some reasonable basis, and cannot be speculative or remote in nature. The
 alleged lost opportunity to launch an IPO and secure windfall gains is
 inherently uncertain and does not constitute direct compensable loss Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 78 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 attributable to the Defendants' infringement. Accordingly, this claim would
 not appear to be merely compensatory and is therefore not awarded. 115. The dilution and tarnishment to the brand are presently not computed
 and can only be an estimate. On the basis of pleadings, documents and
 evidence on record, this Court is of the opinion therefore that the Plaintiffs are
 entitled to compensatory damages for lost royalties based on business plan
 sales i.e., USD 33.78 million equivalent to ₹ 292,70,37,000/-4). 116. In view of the above discussion, this Court finds that the Plaintiffs are
 entitled to a) Compensatory damages amounting to USD 33.78 million equivalent
 to ₹ 292,70,37,000/- for lost royalties as also; b) Compensatory damages amounting to USD 5 million equivalent to
 ₹43,32,50,000/- to compensate for increase in advertising and
 promotional expenses. The said compensatory damages are totaling to USD 38.78 million,
 equivalent to ₹336,02,87,000/- i.e. Rs. Three Hundred Thirty-Six Crore
 Two Lakh Eighty-Seven Thousand Rupees Only as on date. J. Costs of Proceedings 117. Commercial litigation entails significant legal expenses, and in cases of
 IP infringement, the legal costs incurred by IP rights holders in enforcing their
 legal rights can be substantial. Recognizing this, the Supreme Court in Uflex
 Limited v. Government of Tamil Nadu & Ors. , (2022) 1 SCC 165, has
 emphasized the need for awarding realistic costs in Commercial Suits. In the 4 As on 24th February, 2025, $1= ₹ 86.65 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 79 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 said decision, the Supreme Court has held that costs should ordinarily follow
 the event, meaning that the unsuccessful party shall bear the litigation costs
 of the successful party. It has also been highlighted that costs serve multiple
 purposes, including indemnification, deterrence, encouraging early
 settlement, and ensuring access to justice. Accordingly, the present being a
 commercial suit, in terms of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Uflex
 Limited (supra) actual costs ought to awarded in favour of the Plaintiffs. The
 relevant extracts of the decision in Uflex Limited (supra) are set out below: tactic. These two judicial pronouncements were followed
 in Sanjeev Kumar Jain v. Raghubir Saran Charitable Trust
 [Sanjeev Kumar Jain v. Raghubir Saran Charitable Trust,
 (2012) 1 SCC 455 : (2012) 1 SCC (Civ) 275] . In the said
 proceeding the Law Commission also presented its views.
 It is in that context that this Court observed that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 80 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 appropriate changes in the provisions relating to costs
 contained in the Report of the Law Commission of India
 should be followed up by Parliament and the respective
 High Courts. 55. We may note that the common thread running through
 all these three cases is the reiteration of salutary
 principles: (i) costs should ordinarily follow the event; (ii) realistic costs ought to be awarded keeping in view
 the ever-increasing litigation expenses; and (iii) the costs
 should serve the purpose of curbing frivolous and
 vexatious litigation. [ Report No. 240 of the Law
 Commission of India.] 56. We may note that this endeavour in India is not unique
 to our country and in a way adopts the principle prevalent
 in England of costs following the event. The position may
 be somewhat different in the United States but then there
 are different principles applicable where champerty is
 prevalent. No doubt in most of the countries like India the
 discretion is with the court. There has to be a
 proportionality to the costs and if they are unreasonable,
 the doubt would be resolved in favour of the paying party
 [ UK Civil Procedure Rule 44.2.]. As per Halsbury's Laws
 of England, the discretion to award costs must be
 exercised judicially and in accordance with reason and
 justice. [ Vol. 10, 4th Edn. (Para 15).] The following
 principles have been set out therein: 57. We may add that similar principles are followed in
 Australia, Hong Kong and Canada largely based on the
 common law principle. In fact in Canada, the Manitoba
 Law Commission Report analysed the "Costs Awards in
 Civil Litigation" and referred to six broad goals as under: 58. We have set forth the aforesaid so that there is
 appreciation of the principles that in carrying on
 commercial litigation, parties must weigh the commercial
 interests, which would include the consequences of the
 matter not receiving favourable consideration by the
 courts. Mindless appeals should not be the rule. We are
 conscious that in the given facts of the case the
 respondents have succeeded before the Division Bench
 though they failed before the learned Single Judge. Suffice
 to say that all the parties before us are financially strong Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 82 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08 and took a commercial decision to carry this legal battle
 right up to this Court. They must, thus, face the
 consequences and costs of success or failure in the present
 proceedings." 118. In line with these principles, Rule 2 of Chapter XXIII of the Delhi High
 Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018, mandates that the Court must award costs
 guided by actual expenses borne by the successful party. The rule provides for
 the consideration of actual legal fees, witness expenses, expert fees,
 commission execution, and other legitimate litigation costs, ensuring that the
 prevailing party is adequately compensated. Additionally, Sections 35-A and 35-B of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, empower courts to impose
 compensatory and exemplary costs in cases involving vexatious or
 unnecessary litigation. The said Rule 2 of Chapter XXIII of the Delhi High
 Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018 is set out below: In addition to imposition of costs as above, the Court may
 also pass a decree for costs as provided in Sections 35-A
 and 35-B of the Code or under any applicable law." 119. In the present suit, vide order dated 29th May, 2024, this Court had also
 directed the Plaintiffs to file the affidavit of costs incurred in the present suit.
 The requisite affidavit of costs has been filed by Plaintiffs vide index dated 1st
 July, 2024. The said affidavit has been duly signed and verified by Mr. Sidhant
 Goel, ld. Counsel representing the Plaintiffs in the present suit. The Court has
 perused the said affidavit, and also the documents filed along with the
 affidavit of costs. The total costs that have been quantified in the said affidavit
 are coming out to Rs. 3,23,10,966.60/- i.e. Rupees Three crore twenty-three
 lakh ten thousand nine hundred sixty-six rupees and sixty paise only.
 Accordingly, in line with the judgement of the Supreme Court in Uflex (supra) and Rule 2 of the Original Side Rules, costs of Rs. 3,23,10,966.60/-
 are awarded in favour of the Plaintiffs. 120. The Plaintiffs shall deposit the additional Court Fee payable on account
 of the damages awarded by this Court within four weeks. K. Relief 121. The suit is accordingly decreed as under in favour of Plaintiffs and
 against Defendant No.1 in the following terms: 122. The details of the relief granted are summarized below: 1B Increased Advertising & USD 5 million (₹43,32,50,000.00/-)
 Promotional Expenses
 1C Total Compensatory USD 38.78 million (₹336,02,87,000.00/-)
 Damages
 2 Costs ₹3,23,10,966.60/- along with the Court
 Fee. 3 Grand Total ₹ 339,25,97,966.60/- + Court Fee
 (Damages + Costs) 123. Decree sheet be drawn up in the above terms. 124. The suit along with all pending applications, if any are disposed of. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE
 FEBRUARY 25th, 2025
 dj/Rahul 5 $1= ₹ 86.65 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DHIRENDER KUMAR CS(COMM) 443/2020 Page 85 of 85 Signing Date:26.02.2025 17:08