“The protection of consumer privacy cannot eclipse the lawful imperative of investigating officers to secure evidence,” said the Karnataka High Court in its judgement rejecting the plea filed by PhonePe. The judge further added that “confidentiality must coexist with accountability.” PhonePe had filed the petition before the court challenging the state police’s notice to disclose the merchant details involved in online betting games.

The central dilemma lies in PhonePe’s conflicting obligations. Under the Bankers’ Books Evidence Act, PhonePe has to protect the sensitive data of the merchants. However, under the Information Technology Act 2000 and section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the information must be disclosed to cooperate in the lawful investigation process. Furthermore, this same section 91 exempts the Bankers’ Books Act. Section 91 refers to the summons to produce documents for the purposes of any investigation, inquiry, trial or other proceedings.

The company claims it has a legal obligation to protect the confidentiality of user data under the Payment and Settlement System Act, 2007 and the Bankers’ Books Evidence Act, 1891.

In 2022, a man claimed he had used PhonePe to pay Rs. 6150 on the online sports betting website. Upon the payment, the websites had allegedly blocked the account, and the user couldn’t withdraw the funds, as per the complaint mentioned in the judgement. The case has been filed against the betting websites for cheating, dishonesty, and identity theft.

The police have notified PhonePe as part of the investigation process. “Based on our investigation, we came to know that Phonepe Pvt Limited is providing facilities to merchants for conducting illegal financial transactions,” stated the notice sent to the company.

The Karnataka State Police has asked for the following information from PhonePe, according to the notice:

“The petitioner [PhonePe] was acting only as a system provider in the UPI payment system,” said Advocate Nitin Ramesh, arguing on behalf of PhonePe. The payments company falls under the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. He added that the company has “no role to play in any of the transactions leading to the filing of the FIR.”

PhonePe has defended itself through the following arguments:

PhonePe has violated the guidelines of the Central Government to safeguard merchants involved in cricket betting under Section 87 of the IT Act, argued the State of Karnataka.

“In the day of a large number of cyber crimes today, the Police have the power to seek necessary information for the conduct of a fair investigation,” said the government advocate, Mohammed Jaffar Shah.

He further stated that the police have the statutory authority to issue notices, and the investigating officer cannot be termed as having no power to summon information needed for the investigation.

“The police must be empowered within the limits of law to unearth digital footprints that could otherwise vanish,” said Justice M. Nagaprasanna, saying that the user’s privacy can’t be used as a “shield against lawful investigation.”

Furthermore, the court noted that the intermediaries should disclose the requested information within 72 hours after receiving an order from the investigating officer under the rule of Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code), 2011. Additionally, in the case of online real money games, companies should disclose information within 24 hours.

The court referred to several high court judgements to conclude that the investigative agencies, including police officers, can still override the privacy protections guaranteed under the Bankers’ Act. The court observed the following statements while referring to the judgements from the Madras, Bombay, and Kerala high courts:

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event