SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: ST. BROSEPH AND FEMALE SOCIAL WORKER WERE ASSAULTED TODAY (22nd June, 2024)
DATE: 2024-06-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1dlsxvr/st_broseph_and_female_social_worker_were/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recently, [u/St\_Broseph](https://www.reddit.com/user/St_Broseph/), Dushyant had rescued a 23-year-old girl from Tiruvannamalai, a town in Tamil Nadu. He had saved her from a tyrannical family which was trying to control her and get her married off. Before leaving Tamil Nadu, the girl had recorded a video message of her from her own house stating that she is leaving home at her own accord and that she does not intend on coming back to her family. She then shared this video with all her family members, friends and relevant police authorities in Tiruvannamalai. She had also, upon reaching Bangalore, called the police control room and informed them that she is alive and well and had left at her own will. Yesterday, upon receiving information that a missing persons complaint was being lodged for the girl, the girl herself had contacted the Tiruvannamalai police and informed them that she has left out of her own will and even offered to video call them to show them she is okay. Dushyant had called the DSP and other police officers of Tiruvannamalai who didn’t receive his calls. He had then texted him to inform him that no missing person’s complaint should be taken because the girl was alive, well and safe. Broseph had even tweeted out to the Police authorities there telling them that he is not able to reach them. (Link to tweet below) 
[https://x.com/St\_Brosephs/status/1804183500645634108?t=KrcQ6QVIVjnA2jO6adco3Q&amp;s=19](https://x.com/St_Brosephs/status/1804183500645634108?t=KrcQ6QVIVjnA2jO6adco3Q&amp;s=19)

At around 2:30 AM today, 3 Tamil Nadu cops in civilian clothes along with the rescued girl’s parents, in a civilian car showed up at Dushyant’s doorstep. They did not show any identification apart from a picture of one of them in a policeman vardi. They asked him about the whereabouts of the girl and then attempted to drag him outside. He accompanied them to the main road where they proceeded to be abusive and aggressive. Then, still accompanied by these Tamil Nadu cops, he went to the Indiranagar police chowki nearby, where the cops were asleep.

The cops even after being awakened, were helpless and kept asking Dushyant to comply with the unreasonable Tamil Nadu cops. The Indiranagar cops along with the Tamil Nadu Cops and Dushyant went to the SBA Headquarters and started knocking on the door and ringing the bell. The Tamil Nadu Cops were still being extremely aggressive and by now had begun pushing and manhandling him when the people at Headquarters  weren’t opening the door because it was 4:30 AM ish in the morning by now. Frustrated by these things, these monsters tried to drag Dushyant towards the main road and put him into their civilian car. They used force and ganged up on him when he resisted this blatant abuse of power. They tried dragging him into a car and god knows what would’ve happened if he were to go with them.

By this time Janhavi, got here and tried to support Dushyant. The HQ people had woken up by now and opened the door because of all the commotion. Seeing the HQ open, the girl’s parents lunged inside. Janhavi ran to stop the girl’s parents from trespassing into the HQ and possibly making things worse. She tried to stop the girl’s father. This animal of a person, enraged by being stopped by Janhavi began to hit and punch her. This whole thing was further horrid because Cops from TWO JURISDICTIONS WERE PRESENT THERE AND DID NOTHING TO STOP JANHAVI FROM THIS ANIMAL EVEN AFTER THEY WERE ASKED TO. HE HURT HER SHOULDER, FACE AND KEPT GOING. Dushyant was near the main road and as soon as Janhavi pushed her head out of the door and screamed for help, he ran to her rescue while cops were still trying to restrain him physically. Dushyant had to physically move the assailant away from Janhavi to stop him from hitting her further. The Sub-Inspector of Indiranagar then got to the scene and asked everyone to head to the police station.

Even after so much had transpired and such blatant disregard for law and order had been displayed, the cops at Indiranagar Police Station still tried to TAKE THE TAMIL NADU COPS’ SIDE instead of treating this case on its facts. They were asking Dushyant to not escalate this legally and to comply with them. This whole incident shows how disgustingly entitled cops can get in Tamil Nadu and the height of incompetence shown by Indiranagar Police.

Dushyant has decided to pursue this legally. They have gotten medical attention and have medico legal cases. We will hold these abusive cops accountable for their lack of responsibility and blatant violation of procedure. These cops need to be SUSPENDED and the man who hit a FEMALE SOCIAL WORKER MERCILESSLY NEEDS TO BE PUT BEHIND BARS FOR HIS ACTIONS. We will do whatever it takes to bring these cops down because if cops turn a blind eye to crimes, refuse to follow procedure and act in such a brutal and disrespectful manner, are they even cops? Are these shameless scoundrels charged with our safety and protection? Imagine being in this situation instead of a resourceful person such as Broseph, anyone else would have been further assaulted, beaten and persecuted. We cannot rest until the perpetrators are arrested and the cops responsible for this are suspended and for this, we need your help. Follow and amplify St. Broseph posts on this incident across social media, call your journalist friends and inform them about what’s happened, AMPLIFY THIS VOICE so that the law and order situation may improve and the next time a cop even considers doing something like this, they are reminded that **PEOPLE OF BANGALORE WILL NOT STAY SILENT.**

tl;dr

Dushyant, a social worker, rescued a girl from a controlling family. Tamil Nadu police and the girl's parents showed up at his doorstep at 2:30 AM to take her back. They assaulted Dushyant and another social worker, Janhavi, when they resisted. Bangalore police did nothing to help. Dushyant is calling for legal action against the police and the girl's father.