?If There’s One Story To Read Today

“The company is going to be taken over by Adani group since the company has license to create OTT platforms, TV channels and news channels and Adani group would like to acquire all the licenses at one go.”

“The current price of the share is INR 30 and it will become INR 240 within the next 3 months and INR 750 within the next one year.”

“Big Mutual funds have already bought the stock.”

These were some of the many blatantly false and misleading claims made by four YouTube channels that played a crucial role in pump and dump schemes involving the shares of Sadhna Broadcast Limited and Sharpline Broadcast Limited.

Crores of rupees were spent on promoting these misleading YouTube videos and in the end, the YouTube creator behind the videos, the promoters of the company, and some of the shareholders sold their stake for over ₹55 crores in illegal profits, leaving retail investors who trusted the advice peddled in the videos to rot.

India’s stock market regulator, SEBI has come down heavily on this scam, imposing strict interim directions, and also releasing detailed orders explaining how the scam was carried out, who are involved, how they are connected to each other and more. If you don’t have time to read the two 50-page orders, we have you covered with our summary of the same. [ Read , 6 minutes ]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

Interview with TickleCharge’s CEO: Have you ever been embarrassed by a purchase showing up on your credit card statement and disputed the transaction because of that? Well, apparently it’s more common than you think, especially when the payment is made to a sexual wellness company or an online gaming platform. And because of this, payment gateways and banks don’t want to work with such “high-risk businesses.” So what can they do? In our interview with CEO Shakun Sethi we explore this issue in detail and how her company TickleCharge is tackling these challenges. [ Read , 5 minutes ]

Digi Yatra, not under RTI: While the Indian government has taken much pride in presenting the Digi Yatra as a national policy to improve travel experiences, it is reluctant to provide information on the project through a public facility of right to information. Despite concerns of data privacy and security, the project is expanding to other airports and it leaves many in confusion about why the Centre can’t provide any information on its implementation status. [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

Can “public interest” be used to justify “untrue” speech? Earlier this week, a UK Court ruled that Brexit champion Arron Banks deserves damages for “defamatory” comments on his alleged ‘Russian links’ made by journalist Carole Cadwalladr during a TED Talk in 2019. The googly: Cadwalladr had earlier admitted and apologised in Court that the statements were untrue. But, she refused liability, saying that she reasonably believed they were in the “public interest”. Some food for thought as you read through our judgement summary: where do public interest claims end and defamation begin? [ Read , 8 minutes ]

What is IDC up to: No one was happy when the IT Rules, 2021, were rolled out as is evident from multiple legal challenges filed against them. The rules are an attempt by the government to centralise its power, and the grievance mechanism was an extension of this intent. So it is surprising that not a single complaint has been escalated to the Inter-Departmental Committee (IDC) but it has kept busy helping MIB with blocking orders. [ Read ?, 3 minutes]

Does India need a ‘Smart-PDS’? The Indian government is mulling over working on a SMART-PDS initiative across India to automate the Public Distribution System. The proposed system aims to reduce human intervention and errors with AI but we are not entirely convinced about the need for this. Consider the past complications that have come up every time technology was blindly integrated into the PDS system. It leads to unnecessary angst for the general public. So we have some basic questions about this plan. Anyone care to answer? [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

Can Self-regulation do away with online harms? Among the many conversations that cropped up during MediaNama’s discussion on TRAI’s consultation was the potential of platform self-regulation in addressing the issues of online harms. While of course acting on illegal content is a government responsibility, the discussion brought to the fore some interesting insights about content regulation and the recent change in provisions relating to this topic. Take a look! [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

Issues plaguing TRAI’s convergence proposal: The experts at MediaNama’s discussion said that the Indian telecom regulator’s proposal to float a convergence framework is riddled with many issues, chief among them being the capacity of a single regulator to deal with complex issues. They also highlighted several issues which we have summarised for you in this report. You can also watch the video here . [ Read , 5 minutes ]

He said, he said : The senior IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said a parliamentary committee gave the new data protection bill a “big thumbs up”. The bill will now be introduced in parliament in the second leg of the Budget session. The catch: Karti P. Chidambaram, MP and member of the parliamentary committee, said the bill was never formally sent for review! [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

The resistance to a TikTok ban is growing in Washington [ Read ] (Analysis by Cristiano Lima with research by David DiMolfetta/The Washington Post)

WhatsApp Approved by Regulators for Business Payments in Brazil [ Read ] (Kurt Wagner/Bloomberg)

Google ‘Incognito’ users lose appeal to sue for damages as class [ Read ]

(Mike Scarcella/Reuters)

IPhone Maker Plans $700 Million India Plant in Shift From China [ Read ] (Sankalp Phartiyal and Debby Wu/Bloomberg)

Inflection seeks up to $675mn as funding for AI groups heats up [ Read ] (Madhumita Murgia/Financial Times)

Brazil central bank greenlights Meta’s WhatsApp merchant payment system [ Read ] (Peter Frontini and Andre Romani/Reuters)

Crypto bank Silvergate plunges after warning on ability to survive [ Read ] (Joshua Franklin and Scott Chipolina/Financial Times)

CNET is doing big layoffs just weeks after AI-generated stories came to light [ Read ] (Mia Sato/The Verge)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event