1. In the present application, the petitioner seeks to challenge the

 criminal proceeding vide CT Case No.14/2018 and I.A.

 No.3/2019 in relation to EOW Bhubaneswar P.S. Case

 No.17/2018, pending before the court of the learned Presiding

 Officer, Designated Court, under the O.P.I.D. Act, Cuttack for

 the offences punishable under Sections 420 / 406 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B of the I.P.C. read with Section 6 of the Odisha

 Protection of Interests of Depositors (in Financial

 Establishments) Act, 2011. // 2 // 2. The succinct facts of the case as narrated by the informant

 is that in November 2021, he was apprised about the

 availability of a 2400 sq.ft. plot in Jatani Tehsil near IIT

 through an advertisement issued by M/s. Z-Infra

 Construction Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter 'Company'). He then

 contacted Prasan Kumar Patra (hereinafter 'co-accused'),

 MD of the Company to purchase the aforementioned plot.

 The co-accused assured the informant of absolute right and

 title of the land after conversion of the plot in question, and

 construction of a peripheral wall with an accessible road

 attached to the said plot. The co-accused also allegedly

 represented that the land belonged to the Company; the cost

 of the plot is Rs.3,60,000/- and its conversion and the

 boundary wall would cost Rs.35,000/- and Rs.60,000/-

 respectively. Thereafter, the informant booked the plot and

 paid the amount against the plot, and its conversion and the

 boundary wall. Although, the plot was registered in his

 name, the road was not constructed as promised. He then

 allegedly came to know that the Company doesn't have the

 right and title over the plots over which the connecting road

 was supposed to be constructed. He alleges that the

 Company has intentionally defrauded him and 600 other Page 2 of 21 // 3 //

 persons by selling them such disconnected plots over many

 false promises and fabricated documents to dupe around

 Rs.12 Crore. 3. On receipt of such information from the informant, the

 petitioner and the other accused were arrested and on

 recommendation of the EOW Bhubaneswar, their properties

 were attached to protect the interest of the investors. 4. Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submitted that the

 petitioner is the Director of the Company and she is the wife

 of the co-accused. The co-accused holds 60 percent shares

 of the Company while the petitioner holds the remaining 40

 percent shares. Learned Counsel further contends that

 notwithstanding the aforementioned accusations, the

 petitioner and the co-accused are being erroneously

 prosecuted under the OPID Act . He clarifies that the

 petitioner and her 'real estate' business is ultra vires in so

 far as the operational jurisdiction of the OPID Act as the

 Company doesn't qualify to be a 'Financial Establishment'

 as per the provisions of the Act. Learned Counsel further

 submitted that the police wrongfully arrested the petitioner

 and the co-accused, without perusing the contents of the

 complaint. The present case should clearly be dealt with Page 3 of 21 // 4 //

 under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act,

 2016 and Odisha Real Estate (Regulation and Development)

 Rule, 2017 which specifically deals with the subject of 'real

 estate'. 5. Per Contra, learned Counsel for the OPID, vehemently

 opposed the instant application by stating that it was a case

 of planned cheating and fraud. He relied on the agreements

 to contend that the accused persons had defaulted in

 fulfilling their part of the promise to deliver plots with a

 connecting road as well as to return the amount paid to

 them. He also submitted that the provision of the OPID will

 squarely apply to the present case and that the provisions of

 the Real Estate Regulation and Development Act, 2016 have

 no application whatsoever to the present case. 6. Heard Mr. Ashwini Kumar Das, learned Counsel appearing for

 the petitioner and Mr. J.K. Patra, learned Additional Standing

 Counsel for OPID and perused the case records. 7. I had an opportunity to deal with the ambiguities concerning

 the object and application of the OPID Act in Mahasweta Page 4 of 21 // 5 //

 Biswal v. State of Odisha1 . Here, I would like to reiterate my

 stance: 8. On the same note, the Apex Court while dealing with the

 constitutionality of parimateria legislations of Tamil Nadu,

 Pondicherry and Maharashtra observed in M/s. New

 Horizon Sugar Mills v. Govt. of Pondicherry2 : [emphasis supplied] 9. Now, coming to the ambiguities perpetrated from the

 definition clause of the Act, a conscientious perusal of the

 said Section of the OPID Act would indicate that the

 legislature has intentionally kept the ambit of the definition

 quite wide and pervasive. The same is not hard to fathom,

 looking at the fact that the State Government wanted to

 enact a law that would take within its fold the rapidly 2 (2012) 10 SCC 575 Page 6 of 21 // 7 //

 evolving scams being propagated through these sham

 Companies or "Financial Establishment" by way of such

 "schemes". The OPID Act is not focused on

 the transaction of banking or the acceptance of deposits,

 but it is focused more on the delinquency of collecting

 money from a community or collective body of depositors,

 from amongst the public with a firm eye on public interest. 10. The term deposit is derived from the Latin word

 "depositus", which essentially means "to put down". The

 Merriam-Webster dictionary defines the term "deposit" as "to

 place especially for safekeeping" and being in the nature of a

 pledge. In the backdrop of the submissions made to advance

 the challenge of the petitioner, it is necessary to take a

 deeper look into the definitions of 'Deposit' and 'Financial

 Establishment' vide Section 2(b) and 2(d) of the OPID Act

 respectively: // 9 //

 Explanation I.- "Chit" has the meaning as
 assigned to it in clause (b) of section 2 of the
 Chit Funds Act, 1982 (40 of 1982); Explanation II.- Any credit given by a seller to
 a buyer on the sale of any property (whether
 movable or immovable) shall not be deemed to
 be deposit for the purposes of this clause;". 2. (d) "Financial Establishment" means an
 individual or an association of individuals, a
 firm or a Company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 carrying on the
 business of receiving deposits under any
 scheme or arrangement or in any other
 manner but does not include a corporation or
 a co-operative society owned or controlled by
 any State Government or the Central
 Government, or a banking company as
 defined under clause (c) of section 5 of the
 Banking Regulation Act, 1949;" puts mere sale/purchase agreements outside the very ambit

 of this Section. 11. Section 5 of the OPID Act envisages that every Financial

 Establishment which carries on its business in the State

 shall mention the details pertaining to its authority to carry

 on such business. This provision envisages that financial

 establishments which carry on "such business" shall be

 mandatorily required to register under the provisions of the

 Act. The expression "such business" would necessarily mean

 such Companies whose the primary business is accepting or

 receiving "deposits". Section 6 of the Act provides that in

 case where the "Financial Establishment" defaults in the

 return of deposits or fails to render service for which deposit

 has been made every person responsible for the

 management of the affairs of the financial Establishment

 shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend up

 to 10 years. In cases of sale/purchase agreements of real

 estate, these agreements typically provide for the

 "consideration" to be paid for the plot/flat/apartment Page 10 of 21 // 11 //

 purchased. The question of any return on this deposit(s) or

 payment of interest on such deposits does not arise. This

 provision also invariably points to the fact that real estate

 transactions were not intended to be covered under the

 provisions of this Act. 12. Another peculiarity regarding the applicability of this Act to

 real estate transactions is on account of Section 10 of the

 said Act which provides for attachment of the Financial

 Establishments in cases where the deposit is not paid back

 or default in payment to the investors. The operation of the

 aforesaid provision also covers such situations where the

 Financial Establishment has transferred any of the property

 held by it to any other transferee. Typically, if this provision

 was to be applied in sale/purchase of real estate, it will

 precipitate a situation where one buyer claiming default on

 his deposit with the builder/real estate developer can invoke

 the provisions of this Act and seek attachment of the assets

 of the Real Estate Company. Consequently, the operation of Section 10 of the Act would result in a piquant situation

 where one lone buyer while claiming refund of his deposit

 would cause attachment of the other properties so

 constructed, irrespective of the fact as to whether such Page 11 of 21 // 12 //

 properties have been transferred to other transferees, i.e.,

 creating third party rights by the Company. It is a situation

 which invariably arises when the provisions of the Act are

 invoked in real estate transactions especially where a

 Company has sold multiple real estate properties. Such an

 erroneous and chaotic situation could not have been the

 intention of the legislature considering the practices,

 problems and complexities involved in the real estate sector. 13. In the case of Viswapriya [India] Limited v. Government

 of Tamil Nadu3 , the Hon'ble Madras High Court while

 interpreting their corresponding Depositors' Protection Act

 has held that the definitions in Penal Law are not intended

 for semantic debates by trained legal minds, but it is

 intended for the lay and the laity to understand and Act. If

 an ordinary person reads the definition of the word

 "Financial Establishment", he will have no doubt in his

 mind that if he carries on the business of receiving deposits

 and fails to repay the amount, he will have to face penal

 consequences. In contrast, a man who is not into the

 business of receiving deposits, but into the business of

 ordinary manufacturing or mercantile sale/purchase for 3 2015 SCC OnLine Mad 10349 Page 12 of 21 // 13 //

 instance, this definition will not and should not instil fear,

 for that would be deleterious and counterintuitive to the

 progress of a developing society. If it is viewed from any

 other angle, an ordinary manufacturing or a trading

 Company or a Company whose business is not accepting

 deposits cannot be prosecuted under the TNPID Act for

 default in paying its depositor, although their liability under

 the Companies Act or any other penal law applicable would

 not stand extinguished. It could never have been the

 intention of the Legislature to give unbridled power to the

 police to destroy legitimate businesses in this country and

 reduce our countrymen to penury. The entire efforts of the

 Crime Branch are to catch the developers and instil a fear

 psychosis among the builders/developers by wrongly

 invoking the OPID Act which is neither conducive to the flat

 buyers nor to the developers/realtors in that process the

 real estate sector is going to be destroyed. 14. At this juncture, I must confess that there cannot be a

 straight-jacket formula to this dilemma, however, certain

 factors must weigh with the court while deciding if the

 Company in question is a "Financial Establishment" within

 the meaning of the Act. Such factors would be the principal Page 13 of 21 // 14 //

 nature of business of the Company; the objects clause in the

 MoA or AoA; the manner of collection of monies by it;

 whether the same would amount to "deposits" within the

 Act; the nature of the transaction entered into by the

 Company; the nature of the "scheme" under which the

 deposits are accepted etc and most importantly whether it

 can be said that the monies so paid were in the nature of

 any "consideration", such as transfer of immovable property

 in exchange for a consideration as in the present case.

 Such factors must be fully considered to understand the

 true nature of the transaction which will help the Court to

 ascertain as to whether the transactions are genuine

 business transactions or a mere con job which were

 intended to be thwarted by the legislation in issue. 15. As emanates from the aforesaid discussion, it can be

 concluded that the object of the Act in question was never

 intended to apply to real estate transactions simpliciter and

 doing so is nothing more than misplaced or mis-

 adventurous experimentation with the Act. It is, in essence,

 a beneficial social protection enactment but its mindless

 application to real estate transactions, will lead to absurd

 and unintended consequences. It is thus concluded that it Page 14 of 21 // 15 //

 could never have been the intention of the legislature to

 apply the provisions of the Act to neat real estate

 transactions and the application of the Act thereto will lead

 to absurd situations contrary to the legislative intendment. 16. At this juncture, I consider it apposite that in order to

 determine whether or not a "financial establishment" is in

 the business of accepting or receiving "deposits", the very

 nature of the transaction involved has to be examined. In 63 Moons Technologies Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra

 and Ors.4 , the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay conducted a

 similar exercise to determine if a transaction involving

 trading on the platform of NSEL was of the nature of

 accepting deposits. After an elaborate perusal of the bye

 laws, rules and regulations governing the transaction, the

 Hon'ble High Court of Bombay was pleased to hold that the

 transaction entered on the platform of NSEL was not the one

 of deposit of the amount or commodity and if it is not so

 within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the MPID Act, then

 NSEL cannot be held to be a financial establishment and

 proceeded against under the provisions of the MPID Act . 4 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 1648 Page 15 of 21 // 16 //

 Similarly, in Ashish Mahendrakar v. State of

 Maharashtra and Ors.5 , the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay

 when posed with the question of whether inter corporate

 deposits could come within the definition of "deposit" held

 that the intendment of the MPID Act was not to regulate the

 business transactions between the two companies, even

 when the transaction has a mild flavour of deposit, after

 embarking on a journey to examine the pith and substance

 of the transaction. 17. The case at hand, it is evident that the alleged "deposit"

 was made as a part of the consideration for purchase of an

 immovable property. Subsequently, the plot was registered

 in the informant's name but it came to light that there was

 alleged misrepresentation pertaining to whether or not the

 petitioner and co-accused had the absolute rights over the

 nearby plots which were essential for constructing a

 connecting road. These are the issues which is the subject

 matter of other legislations and not of OPID Act . 18. The instant case is a classic example of a commercial

 transaction gone awry which has been strenuously given the 5 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 1865 Page 16 of 21 // 17 //

 colour of a criminal offence. It has been submitted that MoA

 and bye-laws of the Company clearly mention that they deal

 in real estate and projects relating thereof. The informant

 has purchased the impugned plot after full payment against

 its quoted price. It is further highlighted by the learned

 Counsel for the petitioner that the impugned plot was

 registered in the name of the informant and ROR was also

 issued in his favour. Evidently, this transaction doesn't

 qualify as 'deposit' under OPID Act and Section 6 is not

 attracted because the land title has been transferred after

 appropriate consideration. There are no remaining dues in

 nature of "interest or for return in any kind or for any service" 19. The relevant law tailor-made for such situations would be

 the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 Page 17 of 21 // 18 //

which categorically caters to such situations. RERA Act was

enacted to achieve three main purposes, increase

investments in the real estate sector by ensuring security,

fairness and transparency; protecting buyers and regulating

developers. Specifically, Section 12 of RERA, 2016 clearly

stipulates that if a person has sustained any loss or damage

by reason of an incorrect or false statement contained in a

notice or advertisement for a plot/building, he shall be

compensated in the manner as provided in the RERA Act .

Further, Section 18 of the RERA Act casts a clear duty on

the promoter to compensate the buyers in case the promoter

fails to discharge any obligation/causes loss/fails to

complete or give possession of the plot. Section 19(4) of the

RERA Act lays down that an allottee is 'entitled' to claim the

refund of amount along with interest and compensation. The

provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development)

Act, 2016 , in fact, provide for umpteen fail-safe mechanisms

to prevent most of the maladies associated with such cases.

A plain reading of the Act illustrates how simplified the

process of filing complaints for violation have been made in

order to injunct any unnecessary litigations arising out of

builder-buyer relations. The entire idea was to prevent the Page 18 of 21 // 19 //

 property related disputes which are being perilously brought

 within the dragnet of criminal proceedings. This Court

 laments to note that the provisions of the said Act which,

 despite being a well thought out Code by itself, is not being

 resorted to. Instead, such circuitous proceedings are being

 resorted which is neither to the benefit of homebuyers nor to

 the real estate sector at large. 20. As a side note it may be mentioned that, the real estate

 sector being a core sector in the economy plays a critical

 role. It contributes about 6% to the GDP and generates

 large-scale employment. The health of the real estate sector

 has many socio-economic implications and a strong bearing

 on consumers' sentiment. Furthermore, the real estate

 sector has strong linkages with the other core sectors of the

 economy, such as steel and cement, etc. 21. Without going into the question of legislative competence,

 it has to be borne in mind that the source of power for every

 legislation is derived from one of the three lists present in

 the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. That

 being the case, it is pertinent to note that in the case of New

 Horizon Sugar Mills Limited (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has, in terms, observed that the power to enact the Page 19 of 21 // 20 //

 pari materia legislations of Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry and

 Maharashtra Act, is derived by the State from

 Entries 1, 30 and 32 of the State List, which involves the

 business of unincorporated trading and money-lending. In

 my view, the objective of the State legislature by enacting

 the OPID Act was aimed at protecting the interest of gullible

 depositors who were fraudulently conned into participating

 in a scheme or arrangement with unscrupulous financial

 establishments involved in the business of receiving such

 deposits. By no stretch of imagination could the provision of

 the OPID Act be contemplated to mean that the intendment

 of the State legislature was to bring simple transactions

 pertaining to sale/transfer of immovable property within the

 purview of the Act. 22. In view of the aforesaid discussions, at this stage, this

 Court does not deem it appropriate to interfere with the

 proceeding vide CT Case No.14/2018 and I.A. No.3/2019 in

 relation to EOW Bhubaneswar P.S. Case No.17/2018,

 pending before the court of the learned Presiding Officer,

 Designated Court, under the O.P.I.D. Act, Cuttack

 under Section 482 Cr PC in so far as Sections

 420 / 406 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B of the I.P.C. are concerned. Page 20 of 21 // 21 //

 However, in so far as the prosecution under Section 6 of the

 OPID Act is concerned, an offence thereunder is not made

 out as the OPID Act cannot be allowed to govern the field of

 Real Estate transactions simpliciter as the consideration

 paid for transfer of immovable property do not fall under the

 definition of "deposit" as defined under Section 2(b) of the

 OPID Act and as a sequitur the proceedings under Section 6 of the OPID Act stands quashed. 23. It is clarified that the trial court shall proceed with a fair

 trial uninfluenced by any of the observations made

 hereinabove. 24. The CRLMC is accordingly disposed of. (S.K.Panigrahi)
 Judge

Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 24th day of September, 2021/AKK/LB/AKP Page 21 of 21