The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) alerted investors that opinion trading apps are outside its regulatory purview and do not warrant any investor protection mechanism under the securities market.

The regulator added that trading securities on such platforms is illegal since they do not currently qualify as recognised stock exchanges. Consequently, such platforms are liable to face actions for any violations, with SEBI directing recognised stock exchanges to take appropriate action.

This direction follows SEBI’s notice of opinion trading apps mimicking investment platforms, using terms such as ‘profits,’ ‘stop loss,’ and ‘trading’—typically associated with trading securities. For context , opinion trading platforms provide participants with poll-based questions having yes/no responses to the occurrence of events like sports, cryptocurrency, etc.

Of late, SEBI has also ramped up its cautionary efforts against unregistered trading platforms. To explain, earlier this month, the regulator advised investors against fraudulent or manipulative activities concerning the securities market on social media platforms. SEBI also directed users to curb any engagements with unregistered intermediaries, web applications, or platforms, failing which they would be incapable of availing specific recourses as follows:

This is not the first time opinion trading apps have been brought under the spotlight. Earlier in March, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) urged the Union Government to tackle misleading advertisements of opinion trading platforms and called them “digital satta marketplaces”. CAIT alleged that such advertisements promote unreliable sources of income by excluding their risky and speculative nature and consequently violate several laws, like the IT Rules 2021 and the Guidelines for Prevention of Misleading Advertisements 2022, among others.

Further, the traders’ body raised the issue of advertisements misrepresenting opinion trading apps as a “game of skill”, with similar issues highlighted in the Supreme Court previously. In February 2025, a petitioner approached the apex court seeking a ban on opinion trading platforms, contending that they coax users into real-time betting without any cognitive effort. While the Gujarat High Court originally dismissed the petition, the Supreme Court later restored it after it had issued notices to the Union and the Gujarat governments alongside gaming companies like Galactus Funware Technology and Probo Media Technologies.

SEBI’s statement is significant in understanding the regulatory aegis under which such platforms function. Globally, in countries like the US, UK, and Australia, opinion trading platforms lie under the jurisdiction of stock market regulators, an approach experts have recommended extending to India as well. Besides this, consumer interest groups, New Indian Consumer Initiative (NICI) and PEN Media Literacy have previously called for regulatory bodies like the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to monitor transactions on these platforms.

Moving forward, the legal limbo of opinion trading platforms remains debatable, with many contending that they encourage betting and violate India’s gambling laws. Concerns around such platforms functioning as games of skill vs chance also remain. In response, opinion trading platforms (also termed prediction markets) like Probo argue that they focus on skill and analysis-based trading and are treated as financial instruments under the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and India’s SEBI. Additionally, they claim to aid decision-making in policy, finance, and elections.

On the contrary, the CFTC proposed a rule banning derivatives betting on U.S. elections and real-world events in May 2024, Reuters reported . CAIT has also echoed the sentiment that opinion trading platforms cause electoral interference. As doubts and concerns around the adverse consequences of such platforms loom, it remains to be seen how they navigate India’s regulatory scenario and what guidelines follow.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event