PER MR. JUSTICE V.B. GUPTA,
PRESIDING MEMBER 

 

 Since
all the above noted appeals arise out of common order dated 26.12.2006, passed
by State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi (for short, State Commission) all these
appeals are being disposed of by present common order. 2. Brief facts are that complainant - Ms.
Nivedita Sharma-Complainant (Respondent No.1
herein) filed a complaint before the State Commission on the allegations that
she is a valid subscriber of the GSM mobile services provided by Bharti
Tele-Ventures-Appellant No.2/O.P. No.1 (in F.A. No.52 of 2012) under the brand name, Airtel. The complainant
subscribed to the post-paid services provided by it since the year 2006. At the time of taking the connection a kit
was provided to the complainant which inter alia included terms and conditions
governing the services to be provided by Airtel to the complainant as a
subscriber. It is alleged that about a
year after subscribing to the post paid connection, complainant started getting
calls from various banks/financial institutions and other companies for
marketing their products and services. Initially such unwarranted calls were
ignored; however, soon the frequency of calls started increasing and on certain
days the complainant used to receive around ten to fifteen calls causing
tremendous disturbances. The complainant lodged a complaint with the customer
service of the Airtel. There was however, no response of these complaints and the menace continued uninterrupted. 3. Thereafter a written complaint was lodged
with the Airtel. In the said complaint, complainant clearly emphasized the fact
that such unsolicited calls were not only severely disrupting complainants
work but also posed a grave threat & jeopardized safety & security of
the complainant, due to the sharing of her confidential information such as
name, address and financial standing etc. That compelled by such circumstances,
the complainant lodged another complaint with the Customer Service Department
of the Airtel about the unsolicited calls & SMS. The complainant clearly
instructed the opposite party that the complainant should not receive any such
calls or SMS in future. In response to
such complaint, even though the SMS from the Airtel ceased, the calls and SMS
from banks/financial institution continued unabated. 4. The lackadaisical attitude of the Airtel
compelled the complainant to serve a notice on it, vide its letter dated December 24, 2004
claiming damages to the tune of Rs.10,00,000/- (RUPEES TEN LACS ONLY) towards
the harassment & trauma suffered by the complainant due to constant calls
from various banks/financial institutions and other financing companies for
tele-marketing their products and service. In the said notice, the complainant
categorically reiterated its concern that such unsolicited calls not only
disrupted complainants work but also gravely jeopardized the complainants
safety and security. Additionally, the complainant pointed out that such calls
caused a lot of mental distress/strain as a lot of such callers misbehaved when
they did not receive positive response or were questioned as to the source of
their information. Further, vide the aforesaid notice, the complainant demanded
the Airtel to restrain with immediate effect from providing any further
information to any one regarding complainants personal information like mobile
number, name, address or other such details and requested it to recall all
information provided to such banks/companies or to any other company dealing
with such data. 5. It is also alleged that Airtel or its
officials have made absolutely no effort at their end to respond to the said
complaint. The complainant continues to be harassed by such banks /financial
institutions etc. 6. It is further stated that as per the
contractual obligations of Airtel, it was clearly bound to maintain the
confidentiality of the personal and private information of the subscribers. The
Privacy Statement clearly stipulates; We
however, assure you, that Airtel does not disclose your personal information to
any other Cellular Service Provides, Banks Credit Card companies etc. or their
agents, affiliates which could lead to invasion of your privacy. 7. That despite assurances from Airtel, the complainant is still being harassed by
unsolicited calls from banks/financial institution, like ICICI, UTI, HSBC, HDFC
etc. for tele-marketing their products and services. 8. It is also alleged that ICICI Bank-Appellant
No.2 (in F.A. No.55 of 2012)/Opposite Party No.3, continues to make unwarranted
calls, despite the clear cut directions from the Supreme Courts order dated
February 07, 2005, wherein the Supreme Court directed the forthwith cessation
of such unsolicited calls by banks, including opposite party no.3. In fact, on
December 26, 2005, the complainant during the course of a meeting received a
promotional call from an executive, named Shweta from American Express Bank
Ltd.-appellant (in F.A. No.109 of 2007)/Opposite Party no.4, marketing its loan
facilities. On being questioned as to the source of such information (mobile
number of the complainant ) complainant was informed that they have been given
information but refused to divulge the name and number of its senior executive,
who had a list of people, who were to be approached for such promotion. 9. That it is a matter of grave concern that
such confidential information of the subscriber is being traded without their
knowledge/consent. The complainant has confirmed information that service
providers, like Airtel have entered into arrangements with banks, financial
institutions to pass on details of its subscribers for financial benefit to the
tune of crores of rupees. The complainant submits that the parties must be
directed to state on oath as to the exact nature of such arrangement and the
benefits derived therefrom. 10. It is further stated by the complainant
that said fact was confirmed by an executive from Opposite Party No.3/ICICI
Bank Ltd., who substantiated that the complainants personal details, like
mobile number, address and name etc. had been divulged by Airtel and that such
information was being constantly exchanged between service providers, on one
hand and banks/financial institutions, on the other hand for mutual benefits or
financial gains. That this fact was also highlighted in the article titled
Mobile Subscribers seek government intervention to check telemarketing in Tribune dated October 02, 2005; Enquiries reveal that some of the
private companies have illegally procured lists of mobile subscribers from the
employees of the Spice, Airtel, BSNL and Reliance, and are using them to
contact consumers as part of the marketing strategy. Though officials of the
cellular companies deny these allegations, but the facts remains that even the
Spice and Airtel are sending SMS to the customers of each other to woo towards
their network. 11. That such disclosure besides being
violative of the terms of the contract is also an invasion of the complainants
fundamental right to privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution. That this
issue recently came into highlight due to the PIL filed by Dr. Harsh Pathak,
alleging that undesired calls for promotion of business by various companies
not only harassed the citizens but also amounted to the violation of their
right to privacy. The Court recognizing the menace created by such unsolicited
calls, issued notices to private mobile service providers like Hutch, Reliance,
Idea including Airtel. The court also issued notices to banks like City Bank,
HSBC, Standard Chartered Bank including ICICI Bank Ltd. barring them from
making such unsolicited calls. 12. That the said fact came to light in the
aftermath of Supreme Court issuing notices to banks and mobile phone companies,
barring them as well as telemarketers from making such nuisance calls. Despite
specific orders from the Hon'ble Supreme Court barring such telemarketing, the
opposite party no.3 & 4-ICICI Bank Ltd. and American Express Bank Ltd.
respectively, continue to willfully
disobey the orders of the court amounting to contempt of court. 13. That this exchange of data or selling of
information is clearly contrary to the agreement and its terms and conditions
and amounts to unjust enrichment by the opposite parties. That, in spite of
the written assurance given to the complainant, the opposite party has
divulged/caused to divulge confidential information without any due authority
& without complainants consent/permission. 14. That it is even more alarming that even the
financial details of customers are being divulged without their information.
The complainant was alarmed to learn that the callers from Opposite Party No.3
& 4 were aware of the financial standing
of the complainant, without such data being disclosed to them by the
complainant herself. That the said exchange of information becomes even more
ominous in the wake of the recent data theft by an employee of a BPO company in
India. The said incident clearly showed that confidential information can be
easily sold out to anybody for money. 15. That receiving such calls during
professional engagement not only harasses but also unduly interferes with the
right to privacy of the complainant. Such unwarranted calls also cause
unnecessary financial loss to the subscribers when they attend such calls on
national & international roaming. 16. That the complainant as a consumer to
Airtel has suffered wrongful financial loss on account of roaming charges and
Airtel has wrongfully gained by charging the complainant for these calls and
also by selling exchange the information about the complainant. 17. That the complainant seeks to claim; Rs.50,000/- - Towards call charges for receiving such
calls on roaming (for last years) 

 

Rs.4 Lakhs - Towards time loss & disruption of work
over a continued period of four years. Rs.10 Lakhs - Towards jeopardizing the safety &
security of the complainant. Rs.5 Lakhs Towards mental
agony & harassmentRs.15 lakhs Towards exemplary fine for failure to
remedy the situation despite repeated complaints by the complainant as well as
clear cut directions from the Supreme Court. 18. That, the opposite parties have jointly and
severally through acts and omissions violated the right to privacy of the
complainant under Article 21 of the Constitution, committed breach of
contract & breach of trust to the
complainants detriment, peril and financial loss. 19. That therefore in the facts and
circumstances of the present case and in the interest of justice, it was prayed
that the State Commission should direct; a. The opposite party to pay exemplary
damages to the tune of Rs.34,50,000/- (Rupees Thirty Four Lacs Fifty Thousand
only) towards the peril, harassment, mental agony, financial loss suffered by
the complainant; b. Restrain the opposite parties from
making unwarranted calls and causing
further harassment to the complainant; c. That the opposite party be held liable to
pay interest @ 12% p.a. till the date of actual payment; d. Any
other or further order as may be passed by the State Commission in the interest
of justice and in the present facts and circumstances of the case. 20. State Commission, vide order dated 1.5.2006
took cognizance of the complaint and passed an ex parte interim order. The
operative portion of which read as under; 8. We hereby take cognizance of
this complaint by admitting it and issue notice to the OP Nos. 1 to 4 to
facilitate them to give their reply within 30 days from the date of receipt of
the notice. 9. We hereby, by interim order direct all
the service providers of mobile phone services not to disclose any personal
information in their possession including the mobile phone number to any unauthorized
person including the Banks, financial institutions, finance companies as it is
a breach of Privacy Statement and undertaking and may invite the cancellation
of their licence as no stranger can possess such information without being
provided by the service provider who alone is in its possession. 10. At the
same time all unauthorized persons including the Banks, financial institutions,
finance companies and any other persons who are not supposed to be in
possession of the information of the subscribers including the mobile phone
number are restrained from making calls or sending SMS to any consumer as they
are vicariously, as well as directly liable for these acts. 11. It is
common knowledge that whenever a consumer tries to dial the number from where
such calls or SMS are 

 

 received, the obvious response is that the number
does not exist. This is a very serious matter for Regulatory Authorities.
Consumers at large may bring to the notice of the Regulatory authorities by
providing them such numbers and Regulatory authorities shall take stringent
action under the law. 12. Copies
of this order be sent for publication in newspapers as a notice to all the
service providers/Banks/financial institutions/companies/persons who are
engaged in this activity. They shall comply with the order forthwith failing
which they may face proceedings 

 

 u/s 25 and 27 of the Consumer Protection Act,
1986 . 21. Appellant-Cellular Operators Association of
India (for short as COAI) (in F.A. No.52 of 2012) filed an application for impleadment as a
party in the complaint case filed by the complainant. Application for
impleadment was allowed by the State Commission vide its order dated 4.7.2006,
which read as under; An application for impleadment as OP No.4
has been moved by Cellular Operation Association of India of which all the
major service providers of cellular services are members. By way of interim
order dt. 1.5.06 we had directed the cellular service providers not to disclose
any personal information in their possession including the mobile phone number
of any unauthorized persons including the Banks, financial institutions,
finance 

companies etc. as it is a breach of
Privacy Statement. In view of the interim order we allow the application.
Cellular Operation Association of India shall be treated as OP No.5. The
complainant has filed a news report published in Times of India with the title
flood of blank calls from mobile companies issued on 3.4.06. We take judicial notice
of this title. Concerned OPs shall react to this alongwith the replies to the
complaint. Re-list on 11.8.06. 22. Thereafter, vide order dated 27.9.2006
passed by the State Commission, it treated the complaint of the complainant
having been filed under Section 12 (c) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986
(for short, Act) on behalf of numerous
consumers having similar interests and
reiterated the earlier interim
order passed by it. Relevant portion of this order state as under; 4. We hereby call upon all the consumers
of service providers of all such services to send their complaints in writing
to this Commission if they are still receiving unsolicited calls and messages
either directly or through service provider or the banks, financial
institutions, or any other agency so as to find out the violation or
non-compliance of our interim order. 5. Counsel
for the respondent contends that service
providers of mobile telephone service have DND (Do not Disturb) service which is limited and which deals with
the messages emanating from the service provider in respect of new service
information, billing etc. These are the only message that emanate from the
service provider and if any consumer requires that the same should not be sent,
he is entitled as of his right that he be put in the DND category. Once that
happens no message from the telephone
operator is sent on that number. 6. In our
view, such a mechanism evolved by the service provider itself clearly defines
their strategy to augment their business as the consumer may reply in the
process or respond and reply is treated as chargeable calls. If service
providers want their consumers to be put on DND service, they shall on their
own invariably write to each and every consumer to seek response whether he
wants to be put on DND service and if so in respect of what kinds of message or
calls. 7. While re-iterating our interim order dated
25.5.2006, we hereby make the following directions to all the service providers
of mobile telephone in the city as well as banks, financial institutions and
any other agency who is engaged in making
unsolicited calls and messages to those consumers with whom they have no
contract of any kind in this regard; (i) That every service provider shall write to
their consumers whether he is interested on being put on DND i.e. (Do not
disturb) service vis--vis their calls/messages and if so as to what kind of
calls and message a consumer wants to be put on this service. Till such a
communication is sent by the service providers to their consumers and response
is received, the service provider shall
not make any call or send any message including
reminding about the telephone bills i.e. due date of payment etc. or
informing about the new service as they should do so by sending letters giving
details of such services as the contract is only payment of the bills on
receipt of bill containing details of all the calls made by the consumers so as
to allow the consumer to raise any objection if the calls shown are correct or
not. Sending a bill by way of message calling upon the consumer to make the
payment is against the terms of the contract as such message creates
disturbance, inconvenience and mental agony to the consumer when he is busy in
the meeting or in some other urgent work or in the office or any other place. (ii) All
the banks, financial institutions or any other kind of agency are hereby
directed not to send unsolicited calls or messages to the consumers of the
service providers with whom they have no contract of any kind whatsoever in
this regard as this phenomenon is causing lot of inconvenience, mental agony
and harassment to the consumers of service providers of mobile telephones.
Presumption would be raised that they have obtained the information from the
service providers as to the details of the consumers as well as mobile
telephone number and for this the service provider or the banks, financial
institutions shall be deemed to be severally and jointly liable. 8. It is made clear that if in future any
violation or non-compliance of this order is brought to the notice of this
Commission by any consumer of any service provider of such service, it would be
treated as failure or omission to comply with the order and shall invite not
only heavy punitive damages but sentence of imprisonment as provided u/s 27 of
the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 for a term which shall not be less than one
month but which may extend to three years or with fine which shall not be less
than two thousands rupees but which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both. Chief
Executive Officers of the service providers, banks and the financial
institutions shall be liable for this punishment. 9. Copy be sent to the parties and
particularly to the Cellular Operators Association of India, 14, Bhai Veer
Singh Marg, New Delhi - 110 001 impleaded as OP on its suo-moto intervention. 10. Copy be sent to Chairman, TRAI for
regulating the telephone numbers of senders of unsolicited calls and messages
by informing them that they should
register their number with them as whenever consumer wants to find out
the details of the senders of message/call response is that this number does
not exist. 11. A copy of this order be sent to all National Dailies for the
benefit of large number of consumers and also to the service provider. 23. Order dated 27.9.2006 was challenged by the
Cellular Operators Association before High Court of Delhi by filing (Civil Writ
Petition No.16332-34 of 2006). Delhi High Court, vide its order dated
6.11.2006, stayed order dated 27.9.2006 passed by the State Commission. The
Court also directed for impleadment of Telecom Regulation Authority of India as
a party and adjourned the matter for 7.12.2006. Order dated 6.11.2006 of Delhi
High Court, read as under; Issue
notice to the respondents to show as to why rule D.B. be not issued returnable
on 7th December, 2006. Respondent
no.1 appears in person and accepts notice. Notice be issued to respondents No.3
& 4. Notice be served dasti in addition. Service shall be effected not
later than a week from today. Taking into account the nature of the issue raised in
this writ petition which relates to tele-marketing calls affecting almost all the holders of cell
phones it will be appropriate to join the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
(TRAI) as party W.P. (C) 16332/2006 and this Court at the request of the
petitioner will deal with the issue of unsolicited telemarketing. Accordingly
TRAI is joined as respondent No.5. Amended memo of parties be filed and notice be also issued to respondent No.5
alongwith a full set of papers. Reply be filed by the respondents within two weeks from
today. Rejoinder, if any, within one weeks thereafter. Respondents No.3 & 4
in their reply shall disclose the source of information based on which the
tele-marketing calls were being made on their behalf. Mr. Harish Salve states that Do not disturb message
shall be sent to all the subscribers of petitioner No.1. Learned counsel for the petitioner further
states that the petitioner will take steps to implead such banks and other
companies who make unsolicited telemarketing calls to its subscribers; (Stay) 

 

 Issue notice, returnable on 7th
December, 2006. In the meanwhile, the operation of the impugned interim
order dated 27.9.2006 passed by the learned State 

Commission, New Delhi, is stayed. 24 Thereafter, on 7.12.2006 Delhi High Court
passed the following order; The issue of the concerned unsolicited
telemarketing calls which affected the subscribers of Cell Phone services are 

 

currently being addressed by
TRAI which has now been joined as respondent No.5. The learned counsel for the
respondent No.5/TRAI has handed over a Consultation paper on Unsolicited
Commercial Communication dated 20th November, 2006 and states that
TRAI is in the process of finalizing the issues which arise pursuant to the
aforesaid concern. In the meanwhile, the learned counsel for the petitioner
states that as per the order of this Court dated 6th November,
2006 he will join the Indian Bank
Association also as a party. While 

finalizing its recommendations on
unsolicited commercial communications, the TRAI will also hear respondent No.1.
It is stated by the learned counsel for the TRAI that one of the consultations
is fixed for tomorrow. Accordingly, the respondent No.1 is permitted to address
her concerns to the TRAI tomorrow i.e. 8th December, 2006. List on 8th
February, 2007. 25. In the meanwhile, State Commission vide
impugned order dated 26.12.2006, allowed the complaint. Relevant portion of
which states; 38. Since we have treated this complaint as a
complaint filed on behalf of numerous consumers running into lacs and since the
Cellular Operators Association of India has intervened on behalf of O.P. 1 and
2 and all other Cellular operators and since the financial loss and injury is
being suffered by a large number of consumers who are not identifiable
conveniently, we, as a deterrent and to stop this evil, feel inclined to impose
heavy punitive damages upon the O.Ps because of care-a-fig-for attitude and
their having continued to indulge in these activities in spite of Supreme Court
having issued notice in a PIL in 2003 and our observations and directions made
in various orders passed from time to time:- (Fifty Thousand) to be paid to the complainant by the O.Ps, out of which O.P.1,
2 and 5 shall pay Rs.25,000/- (Twenty Five Thousand) jointly or severally and
O.P.3 and O.P.4 shall pay Rs 25,000/- (Twenty Five Thousand) in equal shares. 39. Punitive damages shall be
deposited in favour of the State Consumer Welfare Fund (Legal Aid). 40. Before parting, we give the
following directions to service providers and direct bankers, finance companies
and other persons indulging in telemarketing and direct the TRAI to take all
possible steps to control this evil, as the ultimate responsibility lies over
it:- 41. A copy of this order, as
per statutory requirement, be forwarded to the parties free of cost and
thereafter the file be consigned to record. 42. Copy
be sent to the following:- The Supreme Court has referred to the
provisions in the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and observed that --- A
reading of the plain language of Section 17 shows that every State Commission
has the jurisdiction to entertain complainants where the value of the goods or
services and compensation, if any, claimed exceeds Rs.20 lacs but does not
exceed Rs.1 crore. By Section 18 the provisions of Sections 12 to 14 and the
Rules made thereunder, for the disposal of complaints by the District Forum,
have been made applicable for deciding the disputes by the State Commission. Section 19 provides remedy of appeal against the order by the State
Commission in exercise of its powers
under sub-clause (i) of Clause (a) of Section 17 . If Sections 11 , 17 and 21 of
the 1986 Act which relate to the jurisdiction of the District Forum, the State
Commission and the National Commission, there does not appear any plausible
reason to interpret the same in a manner which would frustrate the object of
legislation. What
has surprised us is that the High Court has not even referred to Sections 17 and 19 of the 1986 Act and the law laid down in various judgments of this Court
and yet it has declared that the directions given by the State Commission are
without jurisdiction and that too by overlooking the availability of statutory
remedy of appeal to the respondents 

 

 

 

We
also find that the High Court has taken cognizance of the statement made on
behalf of the counsel for the petitioners that their clients would challenge
Clause (iii) of para 38 of the State Commissions order by filing an appeal under Section 19 of the Act and the fact that
one of the aggrieved parties, namely, American Express Bank Limited has already
filed an appeal questioning paragrah 38 (iii) of the order of the State
Commission. After having noticed that some of the petitioners were inclined to
avail the remedy of appeal against the particular portion of the order passed
by the State Commission the High Court should not have entertained the writ
petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution and the miscellaneous
petitions filed under Article 227 of the Constitution and directed them to
avail remedy of appeal under Section 19 of the 1986 Act. The
appeal is accordingly allowed and the impugned order is set aside. While allowing the Civil Appeal, the Supreme Court also
permitted the respondents/OPs to file appeal before the National Commission.
The National Commission has been directed to decide the matter without being
influenced by the observations of the High Court in the Writ Petition. The appeals presently being considered in
this order have been taken up in keeping with the above directions of the Apex
Court. 27. We have heard the learned counsel for the
parties at length. All the parties have also submitted written arguments in
support of their contentions. We have carefully gone through the entire record
and perused the written arguments also. 28. At the outset, we may point out that one
of main plea taken in these appeals on behalf of the appellants is that, the
State Commission has proceeded on presumptive adhoc adjudication without giving
any finding of facts. No evidence has been led on the disputed question of
facts. It is further stated that on the issue of jurisdiction of the State
Commission, parties were invited to address the Commission, whereas the 

State Commission proceeded to decide the
complaint as a whole. The approach of the State Commission is perverse and
without jurisdiction as the impugned order was passed in utter haste without
waiting for the outcome of the pending writ petition wherein the interim order
dated 27.9.2006 was stayed and the matter was listed for 08.02.2007. 29. It is also argued on behalf of the
appellant that the complaint was filed by an individual but the State
Commission has converted it into a representative suit. The provision in this
behalf in Section 12(C) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 requires the complaint to be filed on behalf of
numerous consumers having the same interest. It was argued that no such case
was made out in the complaint, as filed before the State Commission. Nor did
the provision in Section 12(C) give the State Commission the power to convert,
of its own accord, an individual complaint into a representative suit. Per
contra, learned counsel for respondent/complainant has argued that the Cellular
Operators Association of India (COAI) had consciously chosen to implead itself
before the State Commission on behalf of
all cellular operators and did not limit itself to the case of the
appellants/opposite parties. We find ourselves in full agreement with this
argument. The fact remains that the matter was contested by the COAI on behalf
of all cellular operators and that the affidavit of the COAI did not limit
itself to answering the complaint of an individual. Therefore, the above
contention of the appellants that the State Commission had wrongly converted an
individual complaint into a representative suit, is rejected. 30. Section 13(2) and (3) of the Act state; 13 (2). The District Forum shall, if the
complaints admitted by it under section 12 relates to goods in respect of which
the procedure specified in sub-section (1) cannot be followed, or if the
complaint relates to any services, (a) refer
a copy of such complaint to the opposite party directing him to give his
version of the case within a period of thirty days or such extended period not
exceeding fifteen days as may be granted by the District Forum; (b) where
the opposite party, on receipt of a copy of the complaint, referred to him
under clause (a) denies or
disputes the allegations contained in the complaint, or omits or fails to take
any action to represent his case within the time given by the District Forum,
the District Forum shall proceed to settle the consumer dispute, (i) on the basis of evidence brought to its
notice by the complainant and the opposite party, where the opposite party
denies or disputes the allegations contained in the complaint, or (ii) ex parte on the basis of evidence brought to its notice by the
complainant where the opposite party omits or fails to take any action to
represent his case within the time given by the Forum. (3) No proceedings complying with the
procedure laid down in sub-sections
(1) and (2) shall be called in question in any court on the ground that the
principles of natural justice have not been complied with. 31. Whereas Section 18 of the Act states; 18. Procedure applicable to
State Commissions.The provisions of Sections 12 , 13 and 14 and the rules made thereunder for the disposal of
complaints by the District Forum shall, with such modifications as may be
necessary, be applicable to the disposal of disputes by the State Commission. 32. Sub-section (3) of 13 of the Act is a
barring provision, stating that when the proceedings have been conducted in
compliance with the procedure laid down in- (a) sub-section
(1), and (b) sub-section (2) They shall not be called in
question,- (i)       
in
any Court, (ii)      
on
the ground that the principles of natural justice have not been complied with. 33. However, the above provision need not,
however, be mistaken as statutory exclusion of the principles of natural
justice, since due care has been taken both in sub-sections (1) and (2) to
require the opposite party to make his defence. 34. Thus, it is clear from the above
provisions that the Act, permits the reception of evidence by various Consumer
Fora on affidavits but when the party insists that he wants to cross-examine
the deponent of the affidavit to prove that the affidavit cannot be relied
upon, natural justice requires that
permission to cross-examine the witness should be given. Therefore, Consumer
Forum has to settle the dispute on the basis of evidence adduced by the
complainant and the opposite party, in case the opposite party has disputed or
denied the averments made against it in
the complaint. 35. It has been contended on behalf of the
appellants that the impugned order was passed by the State Commission without
recording any evidence. It is alleged that the State Commission has violated
the mandatory provisions in Section 13 of the Act read with Section 18 thereof.
On this question of evidence, in our view the impugned order needs to be
considered in two somewhat distinct parts. The first would be in relation to
the individual complainant and the second in relation to the consumers of telecom
service, as a class. As per record, on 4.7.2006, the State Commission allowed
the application of the COAI, to be impleaded as a respondent. Thereafter, on 27.9.2006,
it decided to treat the matter as an application under Section 12(1)(c) of the
Act. With this, the question of burden of proof got divided in two parts; one
in relation to the individual complainant and the other in relation to the
consumers at large. 36. In so far as the class action under Section 12(1)(c) of the Act is concerned, the affidavit of COAI brings it out
as an existing major consumer concern, already receiving attention of the COAI
and the Regulator. The reply of the COAI
before the State Commission has been adopted by the other OPs. It is not the
case of the appellants that the problem of unsolicited calls and messages did
not exist. It is also not their case that the magnitude of the problem had not acquired
alarming proportions. It is not denied that
the COAI and the TRAI were
working on positioning an effective mechanism to address the problem. COAI
did not file any written statement and relied only on their application for
impleadment. Significantly, its intervention was on behalf of all Cellular Operators
and not merely the OPs. Therefore, in our view, contentions of the appellants
on the disputed question of fact remains relevant only to the extent of the
claims of the complainant as an individual and her eligibility to receive
compensation for the same. 37. We hold that the complainant has not been
able to discharge this burden of proof. Admittedly, calls and SMS from the
Airtel had ceased after two written complaints were made to that Company.
Further, no evidence was brought before the State Commission to show that
Airtel had continued to share personal information of the complainant with
banks and financial institutions, from whom she continued to receive
unsolicited calls and SMS. Complainant also claimed that she had confirmed
information about arrangements of service providers like Airtel with banks and
financial institutions to share subscriber details. But, no evidence was led
before the State Commission in this behalf. 38. In
view of the details considered above, these appeals are partly allowed against
the order of the State Commission in Complaint Case No.CC-09/2006, passed on
26.12.2006. Award of compensation of Rs.50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only) under para 38(iii) of the impugned order is
set aside. The other directions contained in paras 38 and 39 are left undisturbed.
The contents of para 40 of the impugned order shall be treated as
recommendations and not directions of the Commission. 39. The appeals stand disposed of in above
terms accordingly. 40. Parties shall bear their own cost. ....J 

 

(V.B. GUPTA) 

 

PRESIDING MEMBER
 

 

  

 

.... (VINAY KUMAR) 

 

MEMBER 

 

Sg.