AMIT SHARMA, J. 1. The present petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,
 1950 has been filed seeking the following prayers:- FACTUAL BACKGROUND 2. Necessary averments in the present petition are as follows:- It has over 380 members, who are petrol dealers of Bharat Petroleum
 Corporation Limited i.e. the respondent, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation
 Limited and Indian Oil Corporation Limited. Out of the total, about 102
 members are dealers of the respondent. ii) The respondent is a public sector company dealing in Oil and Gas. The
 respondent enters into a Dispensing Pump and Selling License Agreement
 (for short "DPSL Agreement") with its appointed dealers across the country,
 who set up petrol pumps for selling the respondent's petroleum products. iii) The respondent introduced Integrated Payment Solution (for short
 "IPS"), wherein, all the fuel transactions and payments made by its dealers Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 2 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 were integrated through the respondent's automation system. For the same,
 the respondent provided Android Point of Sale (POS) machine (Electronic
 Data Capture Terminal), which was used to pick signals from Multi-Product
 Dispensers (MPDs)/ Forecourt Controller (FCCs) on the fuel transactions and
 debit the equivalent amount from the Debit card/ Credit card/ UPI wallet of
 the customer for the amount fuelled. iv) The said Android (POS) machines (Electronic Data Capture Terminal)
 are operated through Pine Labs Private Limited (for short "Pine Labs") and
 AGS Transact Technologies Limited (for short "AGS") and the payment
 gateway for the same is via HDFC Bank and RBL Bank. These terminals
 were installed in addition to the dealer's existing terminals, which were
 installed by the dealers through their banks. v) On 11.10.2019, one of the respondent's official sent an E-mail to the
 dealers, informing them that in the new implemented IPS, there will be no
 rental charge recoveries on the integrated Electronic Data Capture machines,
 irrespective of the make of the Electronic Data Capture Terminal (for short
 "EDC Terminal") or the number of EDC Terminals deployed at a particular
 retail outlet (for short "RO"). vi) However, the respondent raised invoices towards rental of the EDC
 Terminals installed by them. Refuting to the same, the dealers wrote to the
 respondent informing them about the turnaround from its earlier
 communication dated 11.10.2019 and seeking reversal of such charges. vii) The respondent vide E-mail dated 18.04.2020, shared the details of the
 respondent's Policy, whereby rental charges were made applicable on the
 EDC Terminals. It also informed that all of its communication prior to
 December 2019 with respect to rental recoveries on IPS enabled EDC
 Terminals stands withdrawn. viii) Thereafter, the respondent informed their dealers that they can only use
 the respondent's EDC Terminals of Pine Labs and AGS and no other EDC
 Terminals can be used by them. The dealers were also asked to remove all
 other standalone EDC Terminals provided by other banks from their
 respective outlets. Opposing the same, dealers wrote to the respondent
 criticizing their advice to disengage and remove any standalone EDC
 Terminal installed by them and completely switching to the EDC Terminal of
 Pine Labs and AGS provided by the respondent. ix) However, disregarding the objections raised by the dealers, the
 respondent wrote to various banks and directed them to remove their
 standalone EDC Terminals installed at the ROs and to not install any EDC
 Terminal at any RO in future. The Banks were also informed that the
 reimbursement of digital incentives and Merchant Discount Rates (for short
 "MDR") for installed terminals will be stopped. x) Subsequently, the respondent vide notice dated 08.10.2020 (for short
 "Impugned Notice") directed their dealers to remove all other EDC Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 4 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 Terminals by 17.10.2025 and to completely switch to the EDC Terminals
 provided by the respondent i.e. EDC Terminals of Pine Labs and AGS. xi) The petitioner representing its members/ dealers of the respondent vide
 letter dated 12.10.2020, objected to the implementation of respondent's
 directives dated 08.10.2020 and sought withdrawal of the same and
 consequent information to the banks. But it went in vain. xii) Hence, the present petition has been preferred assailing the Impugned
 Notice dated 08.10.2020. xiii) During the pendency of the present petition, the learned Single Judge of
 this Court vide order dated 15.10.2020 stayed the operation of the Impugned
 Notice. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 3. At the outset, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner clarified that the
 present matter doesn't pertain to payment made by the dealers to the
 respondent against purchase of fuel, since, fuel is purchased from the
 respondent by its dealers by making 100% payment in advance of the delivery
 of fuel. In fact, learned Senior Counsel submits that the present matter
 concerns itself with the manner of collection of payment by the dealers from
 their own customers. 4. Further, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner in support of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 5 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 present petition made following submissions:- iii) The petitioner's members/ respondent's dealers have an existing
 banking relationship with various banks and they avail credit facilities from
 such banks to facilitate their businesses. Under the terms of such credit
 facility, the dealers have to do all their transactions through the bank such
 facility is availed, including usage of their payment gateway. Thus, the
 respondent's directive vide Impugned Notice will cause the dealers to stop
 transaction with their existing banks and breach the terms of agreement with
 their existing banks. iv) Electronic Data Capture system was implemented for improving the
 consumer convenience. However, there is no nexus between the said objective
 and the respondent's directive vide Impugned Notice. The respondent by
 limiting the access of its dealers to EDC Terminals of only HDFC Bank and
 RBL Bank, have just disrupted the credit lines of the dealers with other banks. v) Earlier, when EDC Terminals of other service providers (eg. PayTM)
 were used, money was credited in the dealer's accounts on the same day and
 cash flows were steady. However, with EDC Terminals of HDFC Bank and
 RBL Bank, the dealers have to wait for money to be credited for one whole
 day (or two days in case of Sunday/ gazetted holiday), which, in turn, affects
 the dealers' cash flow to make full advance payment of fuel to the respondent. vi) The EDC Terminals of various banks with whom the dealers have pre-
 existing arrangements were free of any rental/ ancillary charges. However, the
 respondent initially represented that their EDC Terminals would be rent-free,
 but later turnaround from their own statement and now, they are directing that
 the dealers have to pay rental charges of Rs. 250 per month for each EDC
 Terminal provided by the respondent. Further, HDFC Bank provides its
 standalone EDC Terminal free of cost but respondent is charging rental for
 such usage from its dealers. Thus, the directive of the respondent puts an
 unreasonable burden of rental cost on the dealers, for usage of respondent's
 EDC Terminals. Also, their EDC Terminals doesn't provide service support
 like paper rolls/ consumables etc. which are provided free of cost by other
 banks. vii) Central Government envisaged that the MDR (which is a rate charged
 for payment processing of debit and credit card transactions) would be borne
 by the Oil Marketing Companies such as the respondent. Thus, irrespective
 of identity of the bank, MDR is adjusted between the respondent and the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 7 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 banks, who are providing the EDC Terminal. However, the respondent in
 order to tie-up with only HDFC Bank and RBL Bank, informed other banks
 that reimbursement of MDR charges would be stopped, if their standalone
 EDC terminals were not deactivated/ discontinued at respondent's ROs. This
 in turn, means that the dealers would have to incur such charges causing
 additional financial burden on them. viii) The respondent's directive vide Impugned Notice has created an
 artificial distinction between the HDFC Bank and RBL Bank, whose EDC
 Terminal is being provided by the respondent on one hand and the remaining
 scheduled Banks approved by RBI on the other hand. This distinction has no
 reasonable nexus with the object that the respondent purports to achieve by
 implementing IPS i.e. consumer convenience and plugging of certain
 purported malpractices arising out of manual intervention in standalone EDC
 Terminals. ix) Respondent imposed IPS for digital transactions through credit/ debit
 cards, however, since digital transactions constitute only a minor part of a
 dealer's total transactions and a major part of fuel sales to customers are
 through other modes such as cash and recently UPI, the imposition of IPS by
 the respondent constitutes an unreasonable and disproportionate restriction on
 the dealers' right to carry on businesses and avail banking facilities from
 banks of its own choice and terms. Thus, the real purpose behind the
 Impugned Notice is not the professed customer convenience but the
 respondent's commercial benefit through its private arrangements. The said Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 8 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 constitutes unreasonable interference in the dealers' freedom to conduct their
 businesses and it will lead to creation of monopoly for POS transactions to be
 compulsorily made only through HDFC Bank and RBL Bank. x) The EDC Terminals provided by the respondent are issued by Pine
 Labs and AGS. Both the Pine Labs and the AGS EDC Terminals are linked to
 HDFC Bank and RBL Bank. The amounts paid through these EDC Terminals
 gets deposited in an account with HDFC Bank or RBL Bank. Forcing the
 dealers to use the EDC Terminals of Pine Labs and AGS, leave them with no
 option but to transact with a bank of respondent's choice only. Thus, the
 directive of the respondent amounts to imposition of an unreasonable
 restriction on the dealers and directly interferes with their right to carry on
 their businesses. xi) The restrictions placed by the respondent on its dealers' right to carry
 on businesses, do not meet the standards of reasonableness and
 proportionality required under Article 19(2) of the Constitution. It is a well
 settled law that restriction on fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) has to
 be reasonable, proportionate and "least restrictive". Reliance for the same, is
 placed upon the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Om Kumar v.
 Union of India1 and Akshay N Patel v. Reserve Bank of India 2. Further,
 restriction on fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) must be by "law"
 under Article 13 , as held in Bijoe Emmanuel v. State of Kerala3 . (2001) 2 SCC 386 2 (2022) 3 SCC 694 3 (1986) 3 SCC 615 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 9 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 xii) Respondent's directive is in contravention to the judgement passed by
 the learned Competition Appellate Tribunal in Federation of All Maharastra,
 Petrol Dealers Association v. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited
 and Anr.4. In the said case, the learned Tribunal held that the insistence to
 exclusively use EDC Terminals issued by a particular bank and to remove
 other bank terminals from the outlet is against public interest and amounts to
 a violation of Monopolistic and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (for
 short "MRTP Act"). The relevant paragraph of the aforementioned judgment
 is provided as under:- 16. This clearly brings out a situation that the insistence on the part
 of respondent No. 1, which we have indicated earlier, as a trade
 practice would amount to an unfair trade practice. 17. We, therefore, conclude that the insistence on the part of the first
 respondent, firstly, to exclusively use ICICI bank terminals and
 secondly to remove other banks terminals from the outlets cannot be
 sustained, as it clearly amounts to a violation of letter and spirit of
 MRTP Act and more particularly the provisions of Sections
 discussed above. Under the circumstances, we allow this complaint
 and direct the first respondent that it shall "cease" and "desist" from
 insisting upon the exclusive use of ICICI bank terminals from the
 outlets of the members of the complainant's association. It shall also
 "cease" and "desist" from insisting upon to remove all other banks
 terminals at the site of the dealers outlets. The direction as indicated
 above shall issue with the immediate effect. Cost of this complaint
 shall be borne by the two respondents jointly. Costs are assessed at
 Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees two lakhs)." xiii) The petitioner's members/ dealers of the respondent are bound by the
 terms of a standard form-DPSL Agreement. While entering into such Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 11 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 agreement, dealers have little or no room for negotiating the terms of the said
 agreement and they are placed in a "take it or leave it" situation. The
 respondent asserts that it has "freedom to regulate and manage its business
 without any interference or claim of the dealers" and that "The dealers cannot
 claim right to interfere in the business model of the Respondent and in choice
 of its vendors". Yet, it ought to be considered that the exercise of such
 unbridled discretion by the respondent is impinging upon the dealers' rights in
 manner that is not contemplated or provided for in their contract and is
 therefore untenable in law. Reliance is placed upon the Judgment of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court dated 18.11.2022 in Civil Appeal No. 8571 of 2022
 titled as 'The State of Madhya Pradesh v. M/s Sew Construction Ltd &
 Ors.'. Relevant paragraph of the said judgment reads as under:- xiv) The respondents are also in breach of petitioner's members' legitimate
 expectation to contract with banks of their own choice. As after enabling the
 dealers to contract with banks of their own choice for more than two decades
 and to install EDC Terminals as per their independent arrangements with
 different banks, the respondent is now estopped from altering its position. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 5. Refuting the submissions made on behalf of the petitioner, learned
 Senior Counsel for the respondent has made the following submissions: - 7.5/-, thus, the customer ends up paying Rs. 992.5/- instead of Rs. 1000/-.
 Whereas, in normal digital transaction, the customer in same case pays the
 full amount of Rs. 1000/- and the incentive amount of Rs. 7.5/- is given to the
 customer in form of cash back after a delay of few days. iv) To implement IPS, the respondent had invited open tenders from time
 to time for certain number of ROs and the successful bidders were given the
 task to implement IPS system at all its ROs. In Delhi, the respondent in total
 has 103 ROs and Pine Labs is the automation vendor for implementation of
 IPS in respect of 98 ROs and AGS is the automation vendor with respect to 5
 ROs. Therefore, in terms of the aforesaid arrangement, it is evident that it is
 for the successful bidder to install, implement and run IPS system at their Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 14 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 respective RO and the respondent has no interference in it. v) To successfully implement IPS, the services of the banker as an
 Acquirer, just like an interface is required and it is for the vendors to choose
 the banker of its choice for providing services of the Acquirer. The banks
 which are capable and ready to provide the requisite and customized technical
 facilities, are selected by the vendor as an Acquirers. This selection and
 choice of Acquirer banks is of the vendor and not of the respondent as the
 respondent has no interference in the manner of provision of the services by
 the vendor. vi) The role of the Acquirer is limited to check the validity of the
 customer's card account and to facilitate the transfer from customer's card
 account to the dealer's bank account, which can be any bank. The Acquirer
 has nothing to do with any other banking activities of either the customers or
 the dealers, therefore, selection of a particular banking company as the
 Acquirer has nothing to do with other banking activities of either dealer or the
 customer. vii) MDR is paid to the banker by the respondent for facilitating digital
 payment for fuel purchase only and not for non-fuel products like groceries,
 engine oil etc. sold at the RO. However, the dealers use same EDC Terminal
 for fuel as well as non-fuel transactions and claim MDR even on non-fuel
 transactions. Therefore, the respondent is defrauded to pay MDR charges for
 transactions wherein no MDR charges are payable. viii) Further, current EDC Terminals are not geo fenced and it can be
 operated to collect money from any place other than the geographical area of
 the RO. Thus, the EDC Terminal can be mis-utilized for collection of money
 at other places, thereby making the respondent liable for payment of MDR
 charges wherein no MDR charges are payable and wrongful utilization of
 digital incentives. ix) It is the prerogative of the respondent to adopt its business processes
 and strategy. The dealers being the licensees of the respondent under an
 agreement, are bound to follow the respondent's business strategy and
 instructions. Further, it is evident that the relationship between the respondent
 and its dealers is contractual and it is well settled position of law that this
 Court in exercise of its extraordinary writ jurisdiction should not interfere in
 the contractual matters of the parties. x) The petitioner has wrongfully placed its reliance on the learned
 Competition Appellate Tribunal Judgment in Federation of All Maharastra,
 Petrol Dealers Association (supra), since the said case pertains to the MRTP
 Act, a legislation which has been repealed w.e.f. 01.09.2009 and is no longer
 part of the statue book. Further, the said judgment cannot be a binding
 precedent for this Court, since it being a judgment of a Quasi-Judicial
 Authority, which is subject to the supervisory jurisdiction of this Court.
 Moreover, the said judgment is under challenge before the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in Civil Appeal no. 8160/2012, therefore, the said judgment cannot be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 16 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 relied upon or taken into consideration. xi) Additionally, present case is completely different from the Federation
 of All Maharastra, Petrol Dealers Association (supra) case. Since, the
 dealers in the present case are free to have their core banking accounts with
 the bank(s) of their own choice or continue with their current relations, the
 customers are also free to use any credit/ debit card of the bank of their own
 choice without any charges or restrictions. However, in aforementioned case,
 the user of cards of banks other than the ICICI Bank were liable to pay
 additional charges simply because they were using cards of banks other than
 ICICI Bank. In the present case, the customers and dealers continue to get all
 the benefits as they used to get earlier, before implementation of IPS. Also,
 the respondent continues to bear the MDR and the customers continue to
 receive the applicable digital incentive, without any deduction. xii) The respondent bearing entire cost of implementation of IPS facility,
 the dealers are only asked to pay a nominal sum of Rs. 250/- per machine per
 month towards sharing of the maintenance costs incurred for upkeep of such
 expensive technology, rigorous and vast back end support system and
 extremely sophisticated costly POS machines, been handed over to the
 dealers, to facilitate safe, secure and transparent digital transactions for the
 customers of the dealers, while the respondent continues to bear the huge
 MDR charges charged by the banks and much higher digital incentives paid to
 the customers. REJOINDER SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITONER 6. Refuting the stand taken by the respondent, learned Senior Counsel for
 the petitioner submitted that:- The petitioner is a body of persons representing its affected members, a fact
 which has been recognized and acknowledged by the respondent on several
 occasions. Moreover, this Court has entertained the petitions filed by the
 petitioner while espousing the cause of its members on multiple occasions Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 19 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 before including in Delhi Petrol Dealers Association v. Union of India 5 .
 Therefore, the respondent cannot on one hand acknowledge and deal with the
 petitioner representing its members issues and on other hand question the
 locus of the very same respondent to file the writ petition to protect the cause
 of its members. vii) The respondent by implementing IPS system in a closed and non-
 transparent manner, seeking removal of existing EDC Terminal, intend to
 restrict the free and fair and equitable digitization opportunities and
 availabilities to the customers through any/ all bankers. It further intends to
 put into operation discriminatory, unreasonable, and arbitrary practices by
 leaving it at the discretion of its appointed vendors to make a choice of banks,
 to the exclusion of others. The petitioner does not object to the IPS system,
 but questions the way the dealers are restricted to deal with a single bank. viii) It is pertinent to mention that the respondent vide letter dated
 15.01.2020 requested the dealers to keep EDC Terminals of other banks so
 that in case one bank server is down, the customers still have an option to pay
 through other means of digital payment. Therefore, implementation and
 promotion of digitization cannot be left at the mercy of the acquirer bank
 selected by the respondent's vendor and availability of multiple banks,
 including existing EDC Terminals is necessary. (1999) 81 DLT 400 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 20 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 ix) The removal of existing EDC Terminals of other banks entails
 operational and financial difficulties to the dealers and to the public at large.
 The same is corroborated from the following instances: - Impugned Notice 6 (1999) 81 DLT 400 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 22 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 9. Prior to the Impugned Notice being issued by the respondent,
 introducing IPS by way of Android POS machine (EDC Terminal), operated
 through Pine Labs and AGS payment gateway only and that to via HDFC
 Bank and RBL Bank, the ROs were using EDC Terminals of their respective
 banks from which they used to take credit. By way of such terminals, the
 customers would pay from their Debit card/ Credit card/ UPI wallet for the
 amount fuelled by them and the amount from the customer's account would
 straightaway go to the dealers' respective bank account. 10. It is the case of the petitioner that since all the dealers have to pay to
 the respondent 100% in advance for the fuel purchased, the same advance
 amount is taken on credit from these banks. Therefore, any delay in collection
 of customers' payments in the dealers' bank accounts entails interest being
 accrued upon them. 11. Per contra, it is the case of the respondent that IPS is a part of its new
 initiative 'NextGen Pure for Sure' for curbing malpractice and bringing
 enhanced transparency for better quality and quantity assurance to its retail
 customers. It has been further contended on behalf of the respondent that
 there is no other way to successfully implement 'NextGen Pure for Sure'
 initiative but to switch all digital payments for sales of Motor Spirit/ High
 Speed Diesel at RO's being routed through IPS only. Thus, in order to
 completely switch to IPS, it was incumbent to stop using standalone EDC
 Terminals provided by the dealers' bank as the success of providing a
 transparent and customer friendly digital transaction experience through IPS Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 23 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 is dependent upon the entire digital card payments being routed and
 transacted through IPS machines provided by the respondent. 12. It is also the case of the respondent that its relationship with dealers is
 governed by the terms of DPSL Agreement. Therefore, it has freedom to
 regulate and manage its business without any interference or claim of its
 dealers. Reliance has been placed on clause 4 of the said agreement to claim
 that the premises and facilities of the dealers, at all times, during the
 continuance of the license, are absolute property and in sole possession of the
 respondent. Similarly, reliance has also been placed on clauses 10(b) and
 10(k) of the agreement which read as under:- 13. It is further argued by the learned Senior Counsel for the respondent
 that the aforesaid step will also boost and further promote the initiative of the
 Government of India to promote digital and cashless economy. Reliance was
 placed upon notification dated 08.12.2016 of Government of India for
 promotion of digital and cashless economy. 14. Vide order dated 13.07.2023, the learned Predecessor Bench of this
 Court directed the respondent to file an affidavit in the following manner:- 15. Pursuant to the aforesaid direction, the respondent placed on record an
 affidavit dated 31.08.2023, which records as under:- BENEFITS TO THE CUTOMERS: 16. In response to the respondent's affidavit dated 31.08.2023, the
 petitioner replied by way of an affidavit dated 16.09.2023. In particular,
 petitioner replied to paragraphs 7 and 8 of the respondent's said affidavit,
 which read as under:- 17. The Respondent has repeatedly laboured on the fact that the
 Integrated POS Terminal under the IPS System would rule out human
 intervention and fetch the data directly from the fuel dispensing
 machine, and that would benefit the customer. While the Petitioner
 does not object to such mechanism being applied, the Respondent has
 failed to demonstrate how the customer would be benefitted by
 limiting the IPS to POS Terminals of only two banks, i.e., HDFC and
 RBL. 18. In any case, the mechanism at present also enables a customer to
 verify that the amount on the fuel dispensing machine and the amount
 paid by him/her are the same. In response to para 8(ii): 19. The Respondent has attempted to mislead this Hon'ble Court by
 falsely asserting that under the IPS system, the customer instantly gets
 benefits of 0.75% digital incentive made available. As stated above,
 vide its own letters dated 02.10.2021 and 04.05.2022, the Respondent
 has discontinued the digital incentive of 0.75% for all modes of
 payment. Therefore, even the said purported benefit does not accrue to
 the customer and the Respondent is misleading this Hon'ble Court by
 relying upon digital incentive as a benefit to the customer. In response to para 8(iv) and (v): 20. The benefits of SMS alert and availability of records of all
 transactions are not limited to the IPS System and are in fact available
 even in the present modes available. in any case, the said benefits
 available to the customer cannot be compromised if the IPS System is
 extended to the POS Terminals of other banks as well. However, the
 Respondent has Mailed to provide any reason of rationale for limiting
 the IPS system to the POS Terminals of only two banks. 21. I state, in light of the above, that the malpractices which have been
 stated by the Respondent do not have any credible basis, which would
 necessitate implementation of the IPS System in the manner the
 Respondent has implemented. Furthermore, while the IPS System may
 confer certain benefits on the consumers, such benefits are not limited
 to the IPS System only. In fact, by relying on incentives which are no
 more available, the Respondent has attempted to mislead the Hon'ble
 Court. As such, the same ought not to be considered or relied upon by
 this Hon ble Court." 17. In the aforesaid backdrop the issue is- "whether the respondent's
 initiative by introducing IPS only through the EDC Terminal being provided
 by its vendor (Pine Labs and AGS) would satisfy the test of proportionality
 determining reasonableness of the limitation imposed upon the petitioner
 through the aforesaid method". At this stage, it would be apposite to refer to a
 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Akshay N. Patel (supra), wherein
 while applying the four-pronged test of proportionality on the impugned
 measure therein, it was observed and held as under:- C.1. Legitimacy 32. This prong of the test entails an evaluation of the legitimacy of an
 aim that purportedly violates a fundamental right. The measure must
 be designated for a proper purpose i.e. a legitimate goal. Five of the
 Judges in the nine-Judge Bench decision in K.S. Puttaswamy (9
 J.) [K.S. Puttaswamy (Privacy-9 J.) v. Union of India, (2017) 10 SCC
 1, para 325] adopted the threshold of a "legitimate State interest" as
 the first prong for assessing proportionality. This State interest must
 also be of sufficient importance to override a constitutional right or
 freedom [K.S. Puttaswamy (Aadhaar-5 J.) v. Union of India, (2019) 1
 SCC 1, paras 321-322] . In this case, the ban on exports, imports and
 MTTs of PPE products is to ensure the availability of adequate
 domestic supplies during a global health pandemic. Adequate stocks
 of PPE products are critical for the healthcare system to combat
 the Covid-19 Pandemic. The State's aim of ensuring supplies is in
 furtherance of the right to life under Article 21 and the Directive
 Principles of State Policy mandating the State's improvement of public Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 31 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 health as a primary duty under Article 47. The appellant has not
 challenged the legitimacy of this aim of ensuring adequate PPE in
 India. RBI, at the time of filing its affidavit on 30-1-2021, had
 elaborated on the state of the pandemic in the country and the
 necessity of ensuring adequate stock of PPE products. The executive's
 aim to ensure sufficient availability of PPE products, considering the
 ongoing pandemic, is legitimate. Accordingly, we hold that the
 impugned measure is enacted in furtherance of a legitimate aim that is
 of sufficient importance to override a constitutional right of freedom
 to conduct business. C.2. Suitability 33. In examining the aim of ensuring adequate supplies in India, we
 will now evaluate the suitability of the prohibition of MTTs in relation
 to PPE products. This would entail an analysis of whether the
 proposed measure can further the stated objective. To understand
 whether the prohibition of MTTs in relation to PPE products was
 suitable, we must first analyse the framework under which RBI
 regulates MTTs in India. xxx xxx xxx
 C.3. The necessity of the measure 50. The prong evaluating necessity is often conflated with the prong
 evaluating the suitability of a measure. The analysis of necessity is an
 extension of evaluating the suitability of a restriction, coupled with an
 analysis of whether the proposed measure is the least restrictive
 manner of arriving at the intended legitimate State interest. This prong
 has traces of the "narrowly tailored" State interest [K.S. Puttaswamy
 (Aadhaar-5 J.) v. Union of India, (2019) 1 SCC 1, paras 420 and 424]
 that has often been used by this Court in evaluating claims of
 infringement of fundamental rights under Part III. xxx xxx xxx
 C.4. Balancing fundamental rights with State aims 53. The fourth and final prong of the proportionality analysis involves
 the crucial task of conducting a balancing exercise. The Court is called
 upon to legitimise the "social importance of the limitation on a
 constitutional right" [K.S. Puttaswamy (Aadhaar-5 J.) v. Union of
 India, (2019) 1 SCC 1, paras 335 and 369] . A measure that fails to
 justify its existence on this prong is considered to have a
 disproportionate impact on the right-holder [K.S. Puttaswamy
 (Aadhaar-5 J.) v. Union of India, (2019) 1 SCC 1, paras 335 and
 369]" transactions like groceries, Engine Oil Also, a bare perusal of the notices
 and other non-fuel petroleum relied upon by the Respondent would
 products sold at the Retail Outlets reveal that they are concerned with
 (ROs) However, when the Dealer the payment of 0.75% digital
 uses the same POS machine for fuel incentive (which has since been
 as well as non-fuel transactions, the discontinued, as stated above) and not
 Dealer claim MDR even on non-fuel with the reimbursement of MDR.
 transactions and there is no 14. I state that while the Respondent
 mechanism to bifurcate the non-fuel has sought to justify the IPS system
 and fuel transactions on such POS. by citing (without substantiating)
 Therefore, the Respondent is fraudulent claims for MDR as a
 defrauded to pay MDR charges for malpractice, it does not provide any
 transactions wherein no MDR explanation as to how limiting the
 charges are payable. Notices issued to IPS to only two banks, i.e., HDFC
 some Banks in respect of misuse of and RBL, would remedy such alleged
 standalone POS are annexed hereto as malpractice. Annexure-A/1. ii. Geo-Fencing: The standalone EDC In response to para 7(ii): out. 18. In any case, the mechanism at
 iii. Rounding off and error in present also enables a customer to
 collecting digital amount is verify that the amount on the fuel
 completely ruled out. dispensing machine and the amount
 paid by him/her are the same. ii. The customer instantly gets In response to para 8(ii): Clauses (a) to (k) of Section 38 . No such contention was raised
 before us. xxx xxx xxx 14. A direction to remove the terminals of other banks excepting that
 of ICICI bank on the ground that it has a financial arrangement with
 ICICI bank would be clearly covered under language of clause
 quoted above. Apart from this, it would amount to an unfair method
 for promoting the services of ICICI bank. The unfairness would be
 at large in as much as though the dealer has full right to utilize the
 services of any other bank, he would have to stop his business with
 other bank and would have to essentially transact with ICICI bank,
 which would affect the competition and would give an unfair
 advantage to ICICI bank over and above the other banks having their
 terminals at the site of the outlet. This would be apart from causing
 loss and injury to the ultimate consumer in as much as he would
 have to shell out 2.5% more than the actual transaction." 22.1. The contention of the respondent that the aforesaid decision would not
 be applicable in the present case as in the said case, the customers who were
 using cards other than ICICI Bank were made liable to pay additional charges,
 is not borne out from the aforesaid observation. As pointed out hereinabove,
 the learned Competition Appellate Tribunal in the aforesaid observation has
 clearly noted that the unfairness of the decision taken by HPCL would not
 only be on account of the fact that the customers would have to shell out 2.5%
 more than the actual transaction, if they used any other bank's credit card but
 also on account of the fact that dealers, who have full right to otherwise utilise Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 40 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 services of any other bank would have to stop their businesses with these
 banks and have to essentially transact with the ICICI bank, which would in
 effect, affect competition and give an unfair advantage to the ICICI bank over
 other banks having their EDC Terminals at the site of the dealership outlet. 22.2. The insistence of the respondent to only use the EDC Terminals
 provided by the Pine Labs and AGS has been highlighted in the counter
 affidavit and written submissions of the respondent in the following manner: - 22.3. At this stage, it is also relevant to refer to an order dated 25.02.2021
 passed by the learned predecessor bench of this Court, wherein it was directed
 as under:- In compliance of the aforesaid order dated 25.02.2021, the respondent
 filed an affidavit dated 13.04.2021, which reads as under:- As already pointed out hereinabove, RBL Bank was already one of the
 bankers providing services to the respondent's vendors, which has also been
 mentioned in para no. 8 of the counter affidavit. The directions vide order
 dated 25.02.2021, was specifically with regard to an additional bank but the
 aforesaid affidavit was filed showing the additional bank i.e. RBL Bank has Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 43 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 been added in the IPS. The said affidavit is conspicuously silent on this issue
 of linking an additional bank with the IPS. 23. The petitioner association by way of an affidavit dated 21.07.2022
 stated that financial prejudice would be caused to the ROs on account of IPS
 being implemented by respondent through HDFC Bank and RBL Bank alone.
 By way of the said affidavit, it was pointed out that petitioner association is
 not objecting to the introduction of IPS but it opposed to the fact that the
 respondent is insisting on the use of POS terminal connected to only HDFC
 Bank and RBL Bank and removal of all other EDC Terminals provided by
 other banks. It was further submitted that most of dealers have a longstanding
 business relationship with different banking institutions, which provides
 various facilities, like credit/ loan/ overdraft against the primary security of
 hypothecation on POS terminals (which is Credit Cards swipe receivables)
 and undertaking for minimum monthly credit card swipes being provided by
 the dealer and in the event POS terminals of the dealer's Bank are removed,
 following implications have been pointed out:- 23.1 It is also pointed out that members of the petitioner association buy fuel
 from the respondent on 100% credit which is provided by their banks and the
 payments made by the end user on the standalone EDC Terminals of their
 bank is credited the same day. However, in case the EDC Terminals of HDFC
 Bank and RBL Bank are used, members of the petitioner association have to
 await credit of payments for one whole day and in case the next day is a
 Sunday or a gazetted holiday, the members of the petitioner association have
 to wait two days for credit of the payment. In this situation, it is pointed out if
 the payments are credited after one whole day, it affects the dealer because
 then they would never be in a position to make advance payments until the
 credit is made available by their respective banks. Thus, it is submitted that
 restricting the usage of EDC Terminals to HDFC Bank and RBL Bank only,
 grossly effects the cashflows of the dealer as they are forced to commit large
 amounts of their cash reserves to make such advance payments for buying
 fuel from the respondent. Another aspect which was urged was that the
 dealers using the terminals of the respective banks were not charged any
 rental for the same. However, the respondent is directing the dealers to pay a
 rental charge of Rs. 250 per month for each of the terminals provided by it. It
 is pointed out that in several petrol pumps there are about 5 to 10 such
 machines and thus, on an average a dealer would be required to pay about Rs.
 25,000/- to 40,000/- per annum purely as rentals for using POS terminal and
 considering that there are more than 100 dealers, cumulative rental charges
 would amount to Rs. 25,00,000/- to Rs. 40,00,000/- per annum. 24. In these circumstances, there is no reasonable justification for the
 respondent to insist that the payment gateway can only be made through the
 banks chosen by its vendors. Further, as pointed out hereinabove, the learned
 Competition Appellate Tribunal, though under the scheme of MRTP Act, had
 held that such a practice would be restrictive and unfair in nature on account
 of the fact that dealers, who have full right to otherwise utilise services of any
 other bank would have to stop their businesses with these banks and have to
 essentially transact with the ICICI bank therein, which would in effect, affect
 competition and give an unfair advantage to the ICICI bank over other banks
 having their EDC Terminals at the site of the dealership outlet. In the present
 case, the dealers' financial relations with their respective bank is also effected
 as pointed out hereinabove. Apart from the bald statement made by the
 respondent, as pointed out hereinbefore, no justifiable reason has been
 forthcoming from the respondent, as to why the bankers of the ROs cannot be
 allowed to have their EDC Terminals, which may be integrated with the
 system. The only explanation which has been placed on record is that the
 same is vendor's choice and their relationship with the said banks. There is no
 reasonable nexus of the restrictive direction of the respondent vide Impugned
 Notice for utilising the EDC Terminals of the vendor's banks and not any
 other bank with the objective of the IPS. Anything which is restrictive in
 nature would amount to an arbitrary act and in case of any arbitrary measure,
 the same would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. It is
 trite that any action having vice of arbitrariness shall be in violation of the
 Fundamental Rights guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Some of the Judgments passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India may
 be referred for the same: This vital and dynamic aspect which was till then lying latent and
 submerged in the few simple but pregnant words of Article 14 was
 explored and brought to light in Royappa case [(1974) 4 SCC 3, 38 : arbitrariness pervades Article 14 like a brooding omnipresence." This was again reiterated by this Court in International Airport Authority
 case [(1979) 3 SCC 489] at p. 1042 (SCC p. 511) of the Report. It must
 therefore now be taken to be well settled that what Article 14 strikes at is
 arbitrariness because any [ Under Article 32 of the Constitution] action
 that is arbitrary, must necessarily involve negation of equality. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 48 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 doctrine of classification which is evolved by the courts is not paraphrase
 of Article 14 nor is it the objective and end of that article. It is merely a
 judicial formula for determining whether the legislative or executive
 action in question is arbitrary and therefore constituting denial of
 equality. If the classification is not reasonable and does not satisfy the
 two conditions referred to above, the impugned legislative or executive
 action would plainly be arbitrary and the guarantee of equality under Article 14 would be breached. Wherever therefore there is arbitrariness
 in State action whether it be of the legislature or of the executive or of an
 "authority" under Article 12 , Article 14 immediately springs into action
 and strikes down such State action. In fact, the concept of reasonableness
 and non-arbitrariness pervades the entire constitutional scheme and is a
 golden thread which runs through the whole of the fabric of the
 Constitution." 24.2 In Food Corporation of India v. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries8 ,
 it was observed as follows: (1993) 1 SCC 71 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 49 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43 25. In the present case, as already noted hereinbefore, the respondent's
 action on insisting that all the ROs shall install the EDC Terminals of HDFC
 Bank and RBL Bank only and remove EDC Terminals set up by all other
 banks has no rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by
 introducing IPS. To insist the members of the petitioner association to stop
 their arrangements with their respective banks in the manner they were
 running businesses, would amount to an unfair measure. Needless to state that
 the public authority has to take decisions for public good which in itself casts
 upon them a duty to act fairly and in a manner without impeding the
 guarantee of equality under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. While
 passing the Impugned Notice limiting the usage of EDC Terminals issued by
 Pine labs and AGS through the gateways provided by their respective banks,
 the respondent has proceeded to act in an arbitrary manner inasmuch the said
 decision was not based on any reasonable justification, after some
 deliberation or exercise undertaken to examine the other alternatives, but was
 purely based on the choice of the aforesaid vendors namely, Pine labs and
 AGS. Even before this Court, as pointed out hereinbefore, the respondent
 despite clear direction did not make any attempt to link any other additional
 bank with the IPS apart from RBL Bank which was already chosen by the
 vendors namely Pine Labs and AGS. Thus, in the final analysis, the
 respondent could not satisfy the fourth test of proportionality i.e. determining
 the reasonability of limitation imposed upon the members of petitioner
 association, by the aforesaid Impugned Notice, as the same does not
 adequately balances with the rights of such members under Article 14 of the
 Constitution of India being unreasonable, unfair and arbitrary in nature. 26. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, the Impugned Notice
 dated 08.10.2020 is hereby set aside and quashed. The respondent is directed
 to refrain from introducing and implementing any such scheme/ system
 restricting the use of stand-alone EDC Terminals of dealers' respective banks
 at the ROs, of members of the petitioner association. 27. The petition is allowed in the aforesaid terms and disposed of. 28. Pending application(s), if any, also stands disposed of. 29. Judgment be uploaded on the website of this Court forthwith. AMIT SHARMA
 (JUDGE)

 DECEMBER 22, 2025/sn/nk/sg Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHIWANI NEGI W.P.(C) 8031/2020 Page 51 of 51 Signing Date:23.12.2025 18:43:43