% 13.12.2024 1. This writ petition has been preferred seeking the following
 reliefs:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/12/2024 at 21:43:12 c) Pass any other or further .orders as this Hon'ble Court may deem
 fit, and proper in the interest of justice and under the special facts
 and circumstances of the case." 2. The petitioner is principally aggrieved by a demand of INR
 1,00,36,472/- which has come to be raised under the Central Goods
 and Services Tax Act, 2017 1 against him. It appears to have been
 alleged that the transactions which formed the basis for the creation of
 the demand under that enactment are not concerning the writ
 petitioner at all. It was in the aforesaid backdrop that the petitioner had
 sought the initiation of appropriate inquiries and investigation. The
 petitioner additionally seeks the de-freezing of his bank accounts. 3. We find that the issues which are broadly raised in the writ
 petition had been noticed in some detail by us in our order of 14 July
 2023 and which reads as follows:- 4. Admittedly, a final order referable to Section 74 of the CGST
 Act had come to be passed against the writ petitioner in 2019. The
 petitioner has not adopted any steps to assail that order in accordance
 with law. In fact, the original order under Section 74 does not even
 form subject matter of challenge in the instant proceedings. The
 freeze, as the Court correctly noticed in the earlier order, was thus
 referable to Section 79(1)(c) as opposed to Section 83 , with the latter
 being confined to a provisional attachment. 5. Insofar as the various allegations laid by the petitioner and
 which extend to unlawful use of his PAN and Aadhar Card for
 securing a Goods and Services Tax registration and transactive
 business is concerned, the same clearly gives rise to disputed
 questions of fact which cannot possibly be resolved in the writ
 petition. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/12/2024 at 21:43:13 6. Accordingly, while we find no justification to grant the reliefs
 as are prayed for in the instant writ petition, we deem it appropriate to
 accord liberty to the writ petitioner to adopt such appropriate remedies
 as may be permissible in law. It shall further be open for the writ
 petitioner to raise all grounds including that of identity theft in any
 proceedings that may be instituted. This order shall also not absolve
 the respondents from their obligation of duly investigating the
 complaint that has been made by the writ petitioner. 7. The writ petition shall stand disposed of on the aforesaid terms. YASHWANT VARMA, J. DHARMESH SHARMA, J. DECEMBER 13, 2024/DR

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/12/2024 at 21:43:13