The Centre has said that it is aware of the harms caused by the misuse of social media platforms to abuse and harass women online. However, the government did not disclose any details regarding such complaints since January 2025.

For context, the Union Minister of State (MoS) for Electronics and Information Technology, Jitin Prasada, was replying to questions posed by Congress MP Jyotsna Mahant in the Lok Sabha on February 4 regarding the trolling of women on social media platforms.

In particular, Mahant asked:

(a) Whether the government is aware of rape threats and organised abusive trolling directed at women on social media platforms, and if so, the details of complaints received since January 2025, platform-wise?

(b) Whether the government is likely to take strict cognisance of elements who use violent language against women under the guise of religious identity and employ it as a form of “protective shield”?

(c) If so, whether any audit is being conducted by the government to fix the accountability of intermediaries for preventing sexual harassment arising from obscene or distorted content generated through Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools?

(d) And if so, whether the government proposes to withdraw the ‘safe harbour’ protection available to social media companies under Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, to ensure that offenders do not receive protection?

These queries come in the wake of the recent Grok AI fiasco , where users were able to digitally undress women in photos uploaded on X (formerly Twitter).

The digitally altered photos created by Grok surfaced just days after the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) issued an advisory to social media platforms. The advisory instructed platforms to prohibit the hosting, uploading, sharing, or transmission of sexually explicit content online under the IT Act and the IT Rules, 2021.

However, MediaNama found that as of February 4, 2025—the same day Prasada addressed Mahant’s questions, Grok was still editing images on X when requested by verified profiles.

a) Responding to the first question raised by Mahant, Prasada said: “The government is cognisant of the risks and harms arising from the misuse of digital technologies, including the misuse of social media platforms for online abuse and harassment of women.”

However, he did not address the second part of Mahant’s query, which sought details on the number of complaints registered since January 2025 across different social media platforms. Notably, the Grok AI digital undressing controversy also gained traction around the start of January 2025.

b) Mahant’s second question focused on whether the government would take strict cognisance of elements who take cover under religious identity and use violent language against women online. Prasada did not address this question in his response recorded in the Lok Sabha.

c) On Mahant’s third question regarding any audit to fix the accountability of intermediary platforms for sexual harassment arising from obscene AI-generated content, Prasada said that the IT Rules prescribe specific legal obligations for intermediaries, including social media intermediaries.

He explained that all online intermediaries must ensure that users of their computer resources do not “publish, transmit, store, update, or share” information that is obscene, pornographic, paedophilic, or privacy-invading, among other prohibited categories.

Further, Prasada said that significant social media intermediaries must ensure timely compliance with content removal requirements and appoint a Chief Compliance Officer, Resident Grievance Officer, and a Nodal Contact Person.

d) In response to Mahant’s last query, Prasada stated that the Centre could remove the safe harbour protection if online intermediaries fail to comply with the IT Rules. However, he did not specify whether this action would be taken against any particular platform.

Notably, the government has issued a notice to X over Grok’s non-consensual images under the provisions of Section 79. Separately, The Economic Times recently reported that the Centre is prepared to revoke X’s safe harbour protection if it fails to comply with the latest takedown directions related to AI-generated obscene images.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event