The petitioner in this writ petition calls in question

second show cause notice dated 5-11-2020 seeking the

petitioner to show cause as to why penalty of dismissal 3 from service should not be imposed upon him based

upon the report of Internal Complaints Committee1. 2. Shorn of unnecessary details, facts appertains

are as follows:- 3. This led to the complaint being converted into a

complaint under Section 9 of the Sexual Harassment of

Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and

Redressal) Act, 20133. The petitioner gave his reply to

the complaint on 6-08-2018 but not being satisfied with

the reply, the University placed the complaint for its

enquiry before the Committee constituted in terms of

the Act. On conduct of proceedings, the Committee held

the petitioner guilty of the allegations in terms of the

complaint registered under the Act. The syndicate

resolving to accept the report of the Committee resulted

in the impugned second show cause notice issued to the 3 'Act' for short 5 petitioner. The preamble to the second show cause

notice narrates that the report of the Committee was

placed before the Syndicate and the Syndicate proposes

to impose major punishment of dismissal from service

by giving 15 days clear notice to the petitioner. The

impugned order while narrating that a notice is to be

given to the petitioner placed the petitioner under

suspension, invoking the power under the Statutes. It is

this order that is called in question in the subject writ

petition. 4. Heard Sri Sushil Kumar Jain, learned senior

Advocate along with Smt. Revathy Adinath Narde,

learned Advocate for the petitioner, Shri Madhusudhan

R.Naik, learned senior Advocate along with Sri

T.P.Rajendra Kumar Sungay, learned Advocate for

respondent No.1 and Smt. Shrividhya Zirali, learned

Advocate for Sri Shivaprasad Shantanagoudar, Advocate

for respondent No.2. 5. The learned senior counsel appearing for the

petitioner would submit that the impugned second show

cause notice decides to dismiss the petitioner from

service and a separate order places him under

suspension. The proposal to dismiss the petitioner from

service is on the basis of a report of the Committee,

without holding any inquiry as required under the

Service Rules, as the penalty of dismissal can be

imposed only after following the procedure under the

Service Rules and would place reliance upon the

judgments of the Apex Court in the cases of DR.

VIJAYAKUMARAN C.P.V. v. CENTRAL UNIVERSITY OF

KERALA AND OTHERS4 and RUCHIKA SINGH

CHHABRA v M/s AIR FRANCE INDIA AND ANOTHER 5. 6. On the other hand, learned senior counsel Sri

Madhusudhan R.Naik representing the University takes

this Court through the provisions of the Act and 4 (2020) 12 SCC 426 5 2018 SCC OnLine Delhi 9340 7 judgments of the Apex Court in the case of VISHAKA

AND OTHERS v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN AND

OTHERS6 ; MEDHA KOTWAL LELE AND OTHERS v.

UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS7 and SEEMA LEPCHA

v. STATE OF SIKKAM AND OTHERS8 and would

contend in terms of the judgment in the case of Medha

Kotwal Lele the report of the Committee is itself

material enough to impose penalty obtaining in the

Service Rules against an employee who is accused and

found guilty of sexual harassment. He would submit

that the statute which depicts procedure for imposition

of penalty has not been amended with regard to

inclusion of cases of sexual harassment. He would also

submit that the petitioner has replied to the show cause

notice and rushed to this Court even before any

decision could be taken after considering his reply to 6 (1997) 6 SCC 241 7 (2013) 1 SCC 297 8 (2013) 11 SCC 641 8 the show cause notice. He would contend that the writ

petition ought to be dismissed as premature. 7. I have given my thoughtful consideration to the

submissions made by the respective learned senior

counsel and have perused the material on record. In

furtherance whereof, the only issue that calls for my

consideration is,

 Whether the proposed penalty of dismissal

from service in the second show cause notice could

have been proposed to be imposed without at the

outset, following the procedure stipulated for

imposition of such penalty as obtaining under the

Service Rules? POSITION IN LAW: 8. Since the entire issue springs from a complaint

in terms of the Act, the genesis of the Act is required to 9 be noticed. The Apex Court taking note of the fact that

the then prevailing civil and penal laws in India do not

adequately provide for specific protection of women from

sexual harassment in workplaces and that enactment of

such legislation will take considerable time, feeling it

necessary and expedient for employers in workplaces as

well as other responsible persons or institutions to

observe certain guidelines to ensure the prevention of

sexual harassment of women, gave a slew of directions

in the form of guidelines as to what would amount to

sexual harassment and the manner to deal with the

same. At para-18 the said judgment further directed

that the guidelines stipulated in the judgment of

Vishaka would be strictly observed in all work places

and these directions would be binding until suitable

legislation is enacted to occupy the field. Paragraph-18

reads as follows: Though the guidelines depicted in Vishaka was

followed at work places no legislation was brought out

as directed in the said judgment. This led to the

judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Medha

Kotwal Lele and Seema Lepcha (supra) where the

Apex Court held in Medha Kotwal Lele as follows: 43. As the largest democracy in the
world, we have to combat violence against
women. We are of the considered view that
the existing laws, if necessary, be revised
and appropriate new laws be enacted by 13 Parliament and the State Legislatures to
protect women from any form of indecency,
indignity and disrespect at all places (in their
homes as well as outside), prevent all forms
of violence - domestic violence, sexual
assault, sexual harassment at the workplace,
etc. - and provide new initiatives for
education and advancement of women and
girls in all spheres of life. After all they have
limitless potential. Lip service, hollow
statements and inert and inadequate laws
with sloppy enforcement are not enough for
true and genuine upliftment of our half most
precious population--the women. 44. In what we have discussed
above, we are of the considered view that
guidelines in Vishaka [Vishaka v. State
of Rajasthan , (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997
SCC (Cri) 932] should not remain
symbolic and the following further
directions are necessary until legislative
enactment on the subject is in place: In the judgment of Medha Kotwal Lele the Apex Court

at paragraph 45 holds as follows: "45. We are of the view that if there is
 any non-compliance or non-adherence to 15 Vishaka [Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan ,
 (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 932]
 guidelines, orders of this Court following Vishaka [Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan ,
 (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 932] and
 the above directions, it will be open to the
 aggrieved persons to approach the respective
 High Courts. The High Court of such State
 would be in a better position to effectively
 consider the grievances raised in that
 regard." The Apex Court at Paragraph 44 of the afore extracted

judgment clearly holds that for the guidelines that are

being issued in the said judgment was on the ground

that the directions given in Vishaka should not remain

symbolic and in that light further directions were given

in the case before the Apex Court in Medha Kotwal

Lele. Again the guidelines in terms of the said

observations at paragraph 45 stipulated in Vishaka

were to be strictly followed and it was open to the

aggrieved person to approach respective High Courts for 16 effectively considering the grievances raised in this

regard. Therefore, it cannot but to be held that the

directions given by the Apex Court in the afore extracted

judgments of Vishaka and Medha Kotwal Lele would

be in operation, till a legislation is promulgated by the

Government. Post- Legislation: The Act: (2) The appeal under sub-section (1)
shall be preferred within a period of ninety
days of the recommendations. misconduct under the service rules 25 and initiate action for such
 misconduct." Section 9 of the Act gives a right to any aggrieved

woman to make a complaint in writing against any

sexual harassment at work place to the Committee if

constituted or a Local Committee in the absence of the

Committee within 3 months from the date of the

incident; Section 10 provides that the Committee may

before initiating action under Section 11 , request the

aggrieved person to settle the matter between the

complainant and the aggrieved person; Section 12 provides for steps that may be taken by the Committee

during the pendency of the inquiry; Section 13 (1) deals

with completion of inquiry under the Act and supply

copy of the report of its findings to the employer and

such report to be made available to the concerned party; Section 13(2) deals with recommendation to be made by

the Committee after conclusion of the inquiry and if the

allegations are not proved, the Committee may 26 recommend no action to be taken; Section 13(3) deals

with a situation where the Committee arrives at a

conclusion that the allegations against the employee

had been proved, it would recommend action to be

taken by the employer against the employee by treating

sexual harassment as a misconduct in accordance with

the provisions of Service Rules; Section 13(4) obliges the

employer to act on the basis of the recommendations of

the Committee; Section 18 provides that an aggrieved

person on the recommendation of any of the aforesaid

clauses of Section 13 may prefer an appeal to the Court

or Tribunal in such manner as may be prescribed; Section 19 of the act deals with duties of the employer; Section 19(i) provided that the employer has a duty to

treat sexual harassment as a misconduct under the

Service Rules and initiate action for such misconduct. 11. It is not in dispute that no separate

disciplinary Rules are framed by the University for 27 deciding the allegations involving sexual harassment.

On a conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions of the

Act, Sections 11 , 13(3) and 13(4) in particular, mandate

that once there is a complaint before the Committee, the

Committee should proceed in terms of the Service Rules

applicable to the employee where Service Rules exist in

a manner as may be prescribed in consonance with the

principle of natural justice. Rules have been framed in

terms of the Act namely, Sexual Harassment of Women

at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)

Rules, 20139. Rules 7 and 9 are germane for

consideration of the issues in the lis and are extracted

for the purpose of quick reference: 8. xx xx xx 9. Manner of taking action for
sexual harassment.--Except in cases where
service rules exist, where the Complaints
Committee arrives at the conclusion that the
allegation against the respondent has been
proved, it shall recommend to the employer or
the District Officer, as the case may be, to
take any action including a written apology,
warning, reprimand or censure, withholding
of promotion, withholding of pay rise or 30 increments, terminating the respondent from
 service or undergoing a counselling session or
 carrying out community service."

On a coalesce of the provisions of the Act and the Rules

what would unmistakably emerge is, where the Service

Rules exist, the report of the Committee becomes a fact

finding report or a preliminary report, with regard to the

allegation of sexual harassment and the employer

becomes duty bound to proceed under the Service Rules

before imposing any major penalty. It is on the basis of

the aforesaid Act and the Rules the case at hand will

have to be noticed. Service Rules of the University: Explanation: Where the Disciplinary
Authority itself holds the inquiry, any
reference in sub-rule(vii) to sub-rule(xx) and in
sub-rule (xxii) , to the Inquiring Authority shall
be construed as a reference to the
Disciplinary Authority. iii) Where it is proposed to hold an inquiry
 against an employee under this rule
 and rule 11-A the disciplinary authority
 i.e. Syndicate shall draw up or cause to
 be drawn up: examine any witness. In such case, the
 employee shall be entitled to have a
 copy of the list of further evidence 45 proposed to be produced if he demands
 it. An adjournment of the Inquiry for three
 days excluding the date of adjournment
 may be allowed for this purpose at the
 request of the employee. The Inquiring
 Authority shall give the employee an
 opportunity of inspecting such
 documents before they are taken on the
 record. The Inquiry Authority may also
 allow the employee to produce new
 evidence if found necessary in the
 interest of justice. NOTE: New evidence shall not be permitted or
called for
 Nor witnesses shall be recalled to fill up
 any gap in the evidence. Such evidence
 may be called for only when there is an
 inherent lacuna or defect in the
 evidence which has been produced.

 xvi) When the case for the Disciplinary
 Authority is closed, the employee shall 46 be required to state his defence, orally
 or in writing as he may prefer. The oral
 defence shall be signed by the employee
 after it is recorded. A copy of the
 statement of defence shall be given to
 the Presenting Officer, if any appointed.

xvii) The evidence on behalf of the employee
 shall then be produced. The employee
 may examine himself if he so prefers. The witnesses produced by the
 employee shall then be examined. They
 shall be liable for cross examination, re-
 examination and examination by the
 Inquiring Authority according to the
 provisions prescribed above. xviii) The Inquiring Authority, after the
 employee closes his case, shall
 generally question the employee on the
 circumstances as appearing against him
 in the evidence for the purpose of
 enabling him to explain any
 circumstances as appearing against
 him. xix) The Inquiring Authority may, hear the
 Presenting Officer if any, appointed
 after the completion of the production of
 evidence. He may also hear the
 employee. He may permit both parties
 to file written briefs of their respective
 cases if they so desire. xx) If the employee does not submit the
 written statement of defence on or
 before the fixed date or does not appear
 in person before the Inquiring Authority
 or refuses to comply with the provisions
 of this Statute at any stage of inquiry
 the Inquiring Authority may hold the
 Inquiry ex-parte. xxi) (a) After the inquiry is conducted, if the
 authority competent to impose any of
 the minor penalties specified in clauses (i) to (iv)(a) of rule 7, is of the opinion
 that major penalties specified in sub
 rule (iv) (b) to (viii) should be imposed on the
 employee he shall forward records of
 the Inquiry to the Syndicate 48 recommending the imposition of any of
 the above mentioned penalties. (b) The Syndicate may act on the
 evidence on the record or may, in the
 interest of justice recall the witnesses
 and examine, cross-examine and re-
 examine them and then impose on the
 employee, such penalties as it may
 deem fit in accordance with this Statute.

xxii) If there is any change in the Inquiring
 Authority during the course of inquiry of
 any case the succeeding Inquiring
 Authority may act on the evidence
 recorded by his predecessor. He may
 however further examine, cross-examine
 the witnesses if so desired by him in the
 interest of justice. xxiii) i) After the conclusion of the Inquiry, a
 report shall be prepared and it shall
 contain: EXPLANATION: If in the opinion of the
Inquiring Authority, the proceedings of the
inquiry establish any article of charge
different from the original articles of charge, it
may record its findings on such article of
charge. Such article of charge shall not
however be recorded unless the employee has
either admitted the facts on which it is based
or has had a reasonable opportunity of
defending himself against such article of
charge. ii) The Inquiring Authority, where it is
 not itself the Disciplinary
 Authority, shall forward to the
 Disciplinary Authority, the records
 of inquiry, which shall include: Inquiring Authority in regard to
 the inquiry." (Emphasis added) 51 In terms of the afore-extracted Rules, no penalty can be

imposed against an employee except after following the

procedure stipulated in terms of the Rules as afore-

extracted. Dismissal from service is one of the major

penalties depicted under Rule 7. Rule 11 deals with

procedure for imposing penalties and begins with a non-

obstante clause that no order imposing any of the major

penalties specified in sub-rule 4(b) to 8 of which

dismissal from service is a part, can be imposed, except

after following the procedure stipulated under the

aforesaid Rules. Rule 11-A deals with action on the

Inquiry Report. These procedures have to be followed if

an employee is to be imposed any of the penalties under

the Rules. A reading of Section 9(i) of the Act in

juxtaposition with the aforesaid Rules makes it

unmistakably clear that the Act itself directs that the

case of sexual harassment would be treated as a

misconduct under the Service Rules and action to be

taken as such. If the Act directs it to be treated as a 52 misconduct under the Service Rules that will have to be

dealt with under the Rules (supra) and procedure to be

followed prior to imposition of such penalty as found in

the Service Rules. 13. In the teeth of the aforesaid provisions of the

Act and the Service Rules, the impugned second show

cause notice is required to be noticed. The second show

cause notice reads as follows:- Sub: Complaint under the Section 9 of
 the Sexual Harassment of Woman
 at workplace -Complaint of a
 student (name not shown but
 available in records) of the
 Department of Economics. Ref: 1. Complaint dated 23-04-2018 filed
 before the Karnataka State
 Commission for Women. 2. Notice dated 25-07-2018 issued
 by Internal Complaints Committee
 of Mangalore University. 3. Your reply to the notice dated 16-
 08-2018. 4. Letter dated 20-12-2018 of the
 Internal Complaints Committee
 (ICC) forwarding Report and
 Findings. 5. Your representation dated 30-01-
 2019 on the report and findings. 6. Resolution of the Syndicate dated
 28-10-2020 proposing
 punishment. -- As you are well aware, you were issued
with notice dated 25-07-2018 by Internal
Complaints Committee (ICC) as a student
(name not shown but available in records
being victim of sexual harassment) had
lodged a complaint against you alleging act of
sexual harassment. You have submitted your reply and the
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) has
conducted the proceedings of enquiry in
accordance with law as mentioned above.
Accordingly, after holding the enquiry,
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) has
submitted its report and findings, the copy of
the same was furnished to you. On receipt of
the same, you have submitted your written
representation dated 30-01-2019. The Syndicate has perused all the
documents, statements, your
representation and it is of the opinion
that the charge of sexual harassment
leveled against you stands proved at the
enquiry and the report and findings of
the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
is just and proper. The Syndicate has
concurred with the report and findings
dated 20-12-2018 of Internal Complaints
Committee (ICC). That by considering the
gravity of misconduct committed which
is proved against you; it has proposed to
impose punishment of dismissal to you. 55 You are furnished with the copy of the
 resolution dated 28-10-2020 of the Syndicate. You are hereby called upon to submit
 your representation if any, to the proposed
 punishment on or before 25-11-2020 as
 otherwise, it will be presumed that you have
 no representation to make and further
 disciplinary action will be initiated against
 you in this regard as per due process of law." (Emphasis added)

What preceded the second show cause notice (supra) is

the proceedings of the Syndicate which was also

communicated to the petitioner as the proceedings of

the Syndicate of the same date places the petitioner

under suspension. Certain portions of the order which

are germane are extracted herein for the purpose of

ready reference: (Emphasis added)
This order places the petitioner under suspension

pending his reply to the show cause notice issued on

5-11-2020. The order which places the petitioner under

suspension indicates that the Syndicate proposes to

impose major punishment of dismissal from service

invoking its power under the Service Rules. This is

indicated in the second show cause notice as well. The

second show cause notice also observes that in the

event he would not submit his reply it would be

presumed that he has no representation to make and

further disciplinary action will be initiated against him.

Both these orders, unequivocally direct that a decision

is taken by the Syndicate to dismiss the petitioner from

service. Dismissal being a penalty under the Service

Rules, in my considered view, could not have been

imposed without, at the outset, following the procedure 60 stipulated in the Rules empowering the University to

dismiss the petitioner from service. 14. It is apposite to refer to Three Judge Bench

judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Dr.

Vijayakumaran C.P.V (supra) considering an identical

issue and an order of termination passed based upon

the report of the Committee wherein it is held as follows: defined in Section 2(n) read with Section
3 of the 2013 Act and being a serious
matter bordering on criminality, it would
certainly not be advisable to confer the
benefit on such employee by merely
passing a simple order of termination.
Such complaints ought to be taken to its
logical end by not only initiating
departmental or regular inquiry as per
the service rules, but also followed by the
other actions as per law. In such cases, a
regular inquiry or departmental action
as per service rules is also indispensable
so as to enable the employee concerned
to vindicate his position and establish
his innocence. We say no more. 13. A priori, we have no hesitation
in concluding that the impugned
termination order dated 30-11-2017 is
illegal being ex facie stigmatic as it has
been issued without subjecting the
appellant to a regular inquiry as per the
service rules. On this conclusion, the
appellant would stand reinstated, but
whether he should be granted back
wages and other benefits including
placing him under suspension and
proceeding against him by way of
departmental or regular inquiry as per
the service rules, is, in our opinion, a
matter to be taken forward by the
authority concerned in accordance with
law. We do not intend to issue any direction
in that regard keeping in mind the principle
underlying the exposition of the Constitution
Bench in ECIL v. B. Karunakar [ECIL v. B.
Karunakar, (1993) 4 SCC 727 : 1993 SCC
(L&S) 1184] . In that case, the Court was
called upon to decide as to what should be
the incidental order to be passed by the Court
in case after following necessary procedure, 65 the Court/Tribunal was to set aside the order
of punishment. The Court observed thus: (SCC
p. 758, para 31)

 "31. ... Where after following the
 above procedure, the Court/Tribunal
 sets aside the order of punishment, the
 proper relief that should be granted is to
 direct reinstatement of the employee
 with liberty to the
 authority/management to proceed with
 the inquiry, by placing the employee
 under suspension and continuing the
 inquiry from the stage of furnishing him
 with the report. The question whether
 the employee would be entitled to the
 back wages and other benefits from the
 date of his dismissal to the date of his
 reinstatement if ultimately ordered,
 should invariably be left to be decided
 by the authority concerned according to
 law, after the culmination of the
 proceedings and depending on the final
 outcome. If the employee succeeds in
 the fresh inquiry and is directed to be 66 reinstated, the authority should be at
 liberty to decide according to law how it
 will treat the period from the date of
 dismissal till the reinstatement and to
 what benefits, if any and the extent of
 the benefits, he will be entitled. The
 reinstatement made as a result of the
 setting aside of the inquiry for failure to
 furnish the report, should be treated as
 a reinstatement for the purpose of
 holding the fresh inquiry from the stage
 of furnishing the report and no more,
 where such fresh inquiry is held. That
 will also be the correct position in law." (emphasis supplied) 14. Following the principle
underlying the above quoted exposition,
we proceed to hold that even though the
impugned order of termination dated 30-
11-2017 is set aside in terms of this
judgment, as a result of which the
appellant would stand reinstated, but at
the same time, due to flawed approach of
Respondent 1 University, the entitlement
to grant back wages is a matter which 67 will be subject to the outcome of further
 action to be taken by the University as
 per the service rules and in accordance
 with law. 15. Accordingly, this appeal partly
 succeeds. We set aside the impugned
 judgments and orders dated 30.1.2018
 and 20-2-2018 passed by the High Court
 including the order of termination dated
 30-11-2017 issued under the signatures
 of the Vice-Chancellor of Respondent 1
 University; and instead direct
 reinstatement of the appellant and leave
 the question regarding back wages,
 placing him under suspension and
 initiating departmental or regular
 inquiry as per the service rules, to be
 taken forward by the authority
 concerned in accordance with law." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court clearly holds that the order of

termination being passed on the basis of Internal

Complaints Committee was illegal and sets aside the 68 order of termination and directs reinstatement. The

judgment of the Apex Court considers the effect of the

Act, the report of the Committee and the order of

termination. 15. The submission of the learned senior counsel

appearing for the University that the report of the

Inquiry Officer is itself material enough to conclude and

impose the penalty under the Service Rules would in the

first blush seem acceptable in the light of the judgment

of Apex Court in the case of Medha Kotwal Lele

wherein the Apex Court holds that the report of the

Committee would be deemed to be an inquiry report in a

disciplinary action under such Service Rules and

Conduct Rules. Though this judgment directed that this

itself would be an inquiry report, the judgment also

considers directions in the judgment of Vishaka which

was necessary to remain effective until legislative

enactment on the subject is in place. Metha Kotwal 69 Lele also depicts that these directions would be valid till

appropriate legislation is brought out. Once legislation

steps in, the rigor of the guidelines or tenor of the

guidelines, in my considered view, would become

inapplicable. 16. The statute depicts a particular action to be

performed in a particular manner. The procedure

stipulated therein cannot be given a go-bye by following

the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Medha

Kotwal Lele. The three Judge Bench decision of the

Apex Court in the case of Medha Kotwal Lele was to be

in operation till the legislation, as was directed in the

case of Vishaka. Subsequent to the legislation, the

later three Judge Bench in the case of Dr.

Vijayakumaran C.P.V. would cover the issue and the

law declared by the Apex Court in the said case would

be applicable to the facts of the case at hand, as the

Apex Court considers the Regulations of the Central 70 University of Kerala, Regulations of University Grants

Commission and the Act and holds that such report of

the Committee ought to be taken to its logical end not

only by initiating departmental or regular inquiry as per

the Service Rules, but also followed by other actions in

law. 17. The Apex Court holds that in such cases a

regular inquiry or a departmental action as per the

Service Rules is indispensable. The Apex Court was

considering a probationer in the case of Dr.

Vijayakumaran C.P.V. The case at hand is of a regular

employee who has put in 37 years of service in the

University and is on the verge of retirement. Therefore,

the petitioner, in the case at hand, is on a higher

pedestal qua the procedures to be followed under the

Rules in comparison to that of the employee in Dr.

Vijayakumaran CPV 's case. Therefore, the contention 71 of the learned senior counsel appearing for the

respondent/University is unacceptable. 18. Insofar as the submission that the petitioner

ought to have held his hands till the order was passed

pursuant to the reply given to the show cause notice is

also unacceptable for the reason that the penalty of

dismissal was also resolved to be imposed by the

University. Apart from it, being a post-decisional

hearing, the decision to impose penalty of dismissal was

clearly an act without jurisdiction, as no inquiry as

contemplated under the Service Rules was ever initiated

against the petitioner. Therefore, the petitioner did have

a right to approach this Court, at this juncture, to stall

the fait from becoming an accompli. None of the

submissions advanced by the learned senior counsel

appearing for the University sounds acceptance, as the

Apex Court has clearly delineated the action to be taken

on a complaint under Section 9 of the Act in the case of 72 Dr. Vijayakumaran. It is made clear that the

consequence of obliterating the second show cause

notice will not however mean that the order of

suspension passed on the same day as that of the

second show cause notice stands obliterated, as there is

no challenge to the order of suspension. 19. Before I say omega to the case at hand, I deem

it appropriate to quote the oft-quoted words of Justice

Felix Frankfurter rendered, being a part of the

judgment, in VITRELI v. SEATON11 reading:- 359 US 535 (1959) 73 The history of liberty" said the same
learned Judge "has largely been the history of
observance of procedural safeguards" in
McNobb v. US12,

The said observations in the judgments (supra), in the

circumstances are apposite. 20. For the praefatus reasons, I pass the following: (c) It is declared that no penalty can be imposed
 against the petitioner on the basis of the
 report of the committee in terms of the
 Service Rules of the University without
 holding any inquiry as obtaining under the
 Service Rules. 12 318 US 332 74 (d) The University is at liberty to initiate
 proceedings against the petitioner under the
 Service Rules by following the procedures
 stipulated therein and conclude the
 proceedings within two months from the
 date of receipt of the copy of the order. (e) The University to bear in mind the
 restrictions on examination or cross-
 examination and the anonymity that the Act
 provides to the complainant which is to be
 strictly adhered to while conducting an
 inquiry under the service rules of the
 University against the petitioner. (f) The petitioner would be entitled to all
 consequential benefits that would flow from
 the aforesaid directions. Sd/- JUDGE 75 3Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
 (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
4 (2020) 12 SCC 426
5 2018 SCC OnLine Delhi 9340
6 (1997) 6 SCC 241
7 (2013) 1 SCC 297
8 (2013) 11 SCC 641
9 Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace

 (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Rules, 2013 10 Classification, Control and Appeal Rules of

 Employees of Mangalore University
11359 US 535 (1959)

12318 US 332

bkp
CT:MJ