Ad: India’s Data Protection Bill is here, and your business needs to adapt. K&S Digiprotect, with its team of data protection experts, offers compliance services tailored to help you adapt to the new regulations, safeguard your data and build trust with your customers. Contact us now!

The Digital Personal Data Protection Bill, 2023 was passed in the Lok Sabha by a voice vote on August 7, 2023. Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw addressed previous concerns raised by Opposition MPs on August 3 regarding various government exemptions mentioned in the Bill.

Read the summary of the bill here .

On government exemptions: Vaishnaw said in Hindi, “If there is a natural disaster somewhere, should attention be given to data consent form or the protection of citizens? Or, if the police are trying to catch a criminal, do we look at a form or carry out the procedure? Europe’s GDPR [General Data Protection Regulation] has 16 exemptions whereas India’s data protection Bill only has four exemptions.”

He also claimed that the Bill satisfies the three principles mentioned in the Puttuswamy judgment, as well as the seven principles of data protection, namely: legality, purpose limitation, data minimization, data accuracy, storage limitation, reasonable safeguards, and accountability.

MPs in the Lok Sabha raised around 14 concerns regarding the Bill, of which the Minister addressed around six concerns. The worries and suggestions raised were as follows:

He talked about the need for the definition of “harms,” “storage” and “disabled persons” under Chapter 1 Clause 2. “Unless we define harm, we cannot define the consequences. Unless we can define the consequences, we can’t do the compensation. So I request the minister to clarify on that,” he said.

Vaishnaw’s response: Referring to the definition of “loss” in the Bill, the Minister said that compensations can be figured out.

“As a result, cases like that of Pratiba Patil, former President, and her utilization of resources which were previously revealed through RTA would no longer be possible,” he said.

Vaishnaw’s response: Regarding children’s age, he said the Bill says the graded manner in which apps can be accessed by children at what age will be specified.

Article continues below ⬇ , you might also want to read:

“With respect to… consent for data fiduciaries for children below 18, they must be verifiable parental consent. Everyone in the house knows 40 percent of the population in this country doesn’t know how to move a file from one folder to another. That is the situation. How do you expect this [parents giving permission to various entities for their children] to be happening?”

Vaishnaw’s response: The Minister suggested the relevant entities use existing digital public infrastructure like Digi Locker for parental consent.

“If someone has participated in some political rally 20 years back, his photos have been in the media. If he goes for an interview after 20 years, the photos are still in the media. It hampers his growth,” said Lavu.

Shiv Sena MP Shrikant Shinde also asked the Minister to clarify the reason for removing the right to be forgotten in the 2023 version of the Bill.

Stating that the government is the biggest data repository, she said that the law should not give wide statutory power. TDP MP Jayadev Galla too asked the government to revisit the RTI amendment.

Vaishnaw’s repsonse: The Minister said the amendment will “harmonise” the RTI Act and the DPDP law.

“[This] means, if somebody is writing good about you, you will not censor. If somebody is writing or showing against you, then that [entity] will be censored… I strongly oppose this bill. And I hope the government reconsiders bringing this data protection Bill,” he said.

Vaishnaw’s response: The Minister said the right to erasure is included in the Bill which is “nearly the same” as the right to be forgotten.

Vaishnaw’s response: The Minister said a sector is free to make regulations based on sectoral requirements.

Similarly, Galla on the topic of the Board said, “[The Bill] mentions the Chairman and members can be reappointed, but not for how long. And also the government will prescribe how the Board has no function and follow procedures including how to conduct meetings. You are appointing the Board for just two years and allowing for renewal. Is it not too short a term? With the scope of reappointment, will it not affect the independent functioning of the Board? Additionally, the Supreme Court observed in 2019 that short-term appointments along with provision for reappointment increase the affluence and control of the Executive,” he said.

Vaishnaw’s response: Section 28 of the Bill clearly states the Board will be an independent body, said the Minister. Regarding judicial members, Vaishnaw said the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) will be involved in the Data Protection Board.

Note: This copy was updated with YSRCP MP Sri Krishna Devrayalu Lavu’s full name for accuracy at 6:47 PM on August 7, 2023.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event