Rule, made returnable forthwith. With the consent of 

 learned Counsel and at their request the Petition is taken up for 

 hearing and final disposal. 2. The constitutional validity of Section 48(5) of the 

 Maharashtra Value Added Tax Act, 2002 (MVAT Act, 2002 ) is in ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 2/71 wp33.12.resv

 challenge. In the alternative, if its validity is upheld, the Petitioner 

 
 seeks that the words "actually paid" be read down to mean "ought 

 
 to have been paid". The Petitioner challenges an order of 

 assessment and seeks a mandamus to the State to recover from the 

 
 vendor tax paid on goods of which a set off is claimed. Consequential orders of set off and refund are sought. Facts 3. The Petitioner which is a partnership firm and a dealer 
 
 registered under the MVAT Act, 2002 , carries on business as a 

 reseller in cotton bales. For 2009-10, the Petitioner filed its returns 
 

 and, based on the purchases effected by it, claimed Input Tax 
 

 Credit (ITC) by way of a set off under Section 48 . According to the 

 Petitioner, the claim was supported by tax invoices of its vendor. On 4 December 2010, the Petitioner claimed a refund of Rs.21.08 

 lakhs, resulting from the return filed. The Petitioner claims to 

 have submitted data, transactionwise, in relation to its supplier, 

 including the invoice number, date of supply, the registration 

 number of the supplier and VAT paid on each purchase. By a letter 

 dated 25 July 2011, the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 3/71 wp33.12.resv

 Kolhapur informed the Petitioner of a list of dealers from whom the 

 
 Petitioner had effected purchases where the data received was 

 
 matched or, as the case may be, unmatched. The Petitioner was 

 called upon to submit ledger copies and proof of the filing of 

 
 returns by the dealer in those cases where the data was unmatched. Failing this, it was stated that ITC of the concerned dealers would 

 
 be disallowed. After a personal hearing the Deputy Commissioner 
 
 by his letter dated 16 September 2011 communicated the quantum 

 of ITC which was allowable in accordance with a 'matched list' and 
 
 that which was not allowable according to an 'unmatched list'. The 

 Petitioner was also informed that the assessment would be taken up 
 

 under Section 23 . The Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax passed 
 

 an order of assessment on 20 October 2011. The Assessing Officer 

 allowed a set off to the Petitioner to the extent of Rs.48.95 lakhs 

 and reduced the claim of refund from Rs.21.08 lakhs to Rs.2.17 

 lakhs. MVAT Act 4. The MVAT Act, 2002 was brought into force with effect 

 from 1 April 2005. The Act replaced a single point levy under the 

 erstwhile Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 with a multi point levy. VBC 4/71 wp33.12.resv The Act was legislated upon by the State Legislature in pursuance 

 
 of a decision taken by the Empowered Committee of Finance 

 
 Ministers of the States to bring in a value added tax system. The 

 White Paper circulated by the Empowered Committee of State 

 
 Finance Ministers on 17 January 2005 furnished the following 

 rationale for the introduction of VAT: 5. Section 3 of the MVAT Act, 2002, provides for the 

 incidence of the tax. Sub-section (1) prescribes that every dealer, 
 
 who before the appointed day holds a valid or effective certificate 

 of registration or licence under any of the earlier laws or, is liable 
 

 to pay sales tax thereunder whose turnover of sales or purchases 
 

 has exceeded rupees five lakh or who was an importer whose 

 turnover had exceeded rupees one lakh with effect from the 

 appointed day, would be liable to pay tax. Under sub-section (2) 

 of Section 3 , a dealer to whom sub-section (1) does not apply and 

 whose turnover of all sales made, during the year commencing on 

 the appointed day or any subsequent year exceeds the limit 

 specified in sub-section (4) is liable to pay tax under the Act with 

 effect from the first day of April of the respective year. Under ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 6/71 wp33.12.resv Section 4 , it has been specified that subject to the provisions of the 

 
 Act and rules, there shall be paid by every dealer or, as the case 

 
 may be, every person, who is liable to pay tax under the Act, the 

 tax or taxes leviable in accordance with the Act and rules. Under Section 6 tax is levied on the turnover of sales of goods specified in 

 Schedules B, C, D or E at the rates set out therein. The expression 

 
 "sale price" is defined in Section 2(25) as follows: Explanation II inter alia stipulates that the sale price shall not 

 include tax paid or payable to a seller in respect of such sale. Section 16 contains a prohibition to the effect that a dealer while 

 being liable to pay tax under the Act, shall not be engaged in the 

 business as a dealer, unless he possesses a valid certificate of 

 registration. Moreover, a person or dealer who is registered is 

 liable to pay tax during the period in which the registration 

 certificate is effective, notwithstanding the fact that subsequently it ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 7/71 wp33.12.resv

 is found that no registration certificate was necessary in his case. Section 60 of the MVAT Act, 2002, stipulates that no person shall 

 
 collect any sum by way of tax in respect of sales of any goods which 

 are not taxable goods. Moreover, a person who is not a registered 

 
 dealer is prohibited from collecting, in respect of any sales of goods, 

 any sum by way of tax from any other person. A registered dealer 

 
 is prohibited from collecting any amount by way of tax in excess of 
 
 the tax payable by him on any sale of goods under the provisions of 

 the Act. 6. Under the Scheme of the Act, every dealer is liable to pay 
 

 tax on a sale transaction with a purchasing dealer. The dealer is 
 

 also entitled to claim by way of a set off under Section 48 the tax 

 paid on his purchases as ITC. Section 86 prescribes a tax invoice 

 which is issued, by a selling dealer, indicating the amount of tax 

 recovered. The tax invoice has to contain a certification that the 

 registration of the selling dealer under the MVAT Act, 2002 is in 

 force on the date on which the sale of the goods specified in the tax 

 invoice took place; that the transaction of sale has been effected by 

 the selling dealer and shall be accounted for in the turnover of sales ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 8/71 wp33.12.resv

 while filing the return and that the due tax, if any, payable on the 

 
 sale has been paid or shall be paid. 7. The controversy in the case turns upon Section 48 . Section 48 provides as follows : XLII of 1987) be granted to the dealer purchasing or 
 importing motor veicles; or (iv) paid under the Maharashtra Tax on Entry 
 of Goods into the Local Areas Act, 2002 , (Mah. - of 2002) 
 be granted to the dealer; (b) for the purpose of the levy of tax under any of the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 9/71 wp33.12.resv

 provisions of this Act, the sale price may in the case of 
 any class of sales be reduced to such extent, and in such 

 
 manner, as may be specified in the rules. (2) No set-off or refund as provided by any rules made 
 under this Act shall be granted to any dealer in respect of 
 any purchase made from a registered dealer after the 
 appointed day, unless the claimant dealer produces a tax 

 
 invoice, containing a certificate that the registration 
 certificate of the selling dealer was in force on the date of 
 sale by him and the due tax, if any, payable on the sale 
 has been paid or shall be paid and unless such certificate 

 
 is signed by the selling dealer or a person duly authorised 
 by him. (3) Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section 
 (4), where no tax has been charged separately under any 
 
 earlier law, the rate of tax applicable for the purposes of 
 calculating the amounts of set-off, or refund in respect of 
 any earlier sale or purchase of goods, or for the purposes 
 of reduction of sale or purchase price for levy of tax, shall 
 

 be the rate set-out against the goods in the relevant 
 Schedule under any earlier law. (4) Where, under any notification issued under this Act 
 or as the case may be, any earlier law, any sale or 

 purchase of goods has been exempted from the payment 
 of whole of sales tax or purchase tax, then, for the 
 purposes of sub-section (3), the rate of tax applicable 
 shall be nil; and where it is exempted from payment of 
 any part of sales tax (or purchase tax), the rate of tax 

 applicable shall be the rate at which the payment of tax is 
 to be made by cirtue of such exemption. (5) For the removal of doubt it is hereby declared that, 
 in no case the amount of set-off or refund on any 
 purchase of goods shall exceed the amount of tax in 
 respect of the same goods, actually paid, if any, under 
 this Act or any earlier law, into the Government treasury ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 10/71 wp33.12.resv

 except to the extent where purchase tax is payable by the 
 the claimant dealer on the purchase of the said goods 

 
 effected by him: The case of the Petitioner 8. The Petitioner has submitted before the Court that (i) 
 

 The selling dealer collects tax on behalf of the purchasing dealer 
 

 and only acts as an agent of the Government to collect tax on the 

 sale consideration; (ii) Under Section 86 a registered dealer who 

 sells goods has to issue to the purchaser a tax invoice containing 

 inter alia the details of its registration certificate, description, 

 quantity and the price of the goods sold and the amount of tax 

 charged; no further requirement has been imposed on the 

 purchasing dealer such as obtaining from the vendor a challan 

 supporting the payment of tax shown in the tax invoice, nor is the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 11/71 wp33.12.resv

 purchasing dealer given the authority to obtain a challan or return 

 
 from the selling dealer; (iii) The purchasing dealer cannot be held 

 
 responsible if the selling dealer has failed to deposit tax in the 

 Government Treasury and denying to the purchasing dealer the 

 
 benefit of a set off on account of a failure on the part of the selling 

 dealer to deposit tax collected, would result in imposing a 

 
 condition which is impossible of compliance; (iv) The Sales tax 
 
 authorities have statutory powers to assess the dealers and to 

 recover tax including interest and penalty. The vendor can be 
 
 prosecuted for non-payment of dues collected; (v) Under Rule 55 

 read with Section 48(2) , the claimant dealer in order to claim a set 
 

 off, is required to produce the original tax invoice before the Sales 
 

 Tax Authority. The dealer is required to maintain accounts 

 reflecting the date of purchase, the name of the selling dealer and 

 his registration certificate, number of the tax invoice, purchase 

 price of goods and the tax, if any, recovered by the selling dealer. Once these conditions are fulfilled, it is asserted that the dealer 

 would be entitled to the benefit of a set off irrespective of whether 

 the selling dealer has deposited the tax collected in the Treasury. VBC 12/71 wp33.12.resv

 Submissions of the Petitioner 9. The challenge to the constitutional validity of the 

 
 provisions of Section 48(5) is on the ground that it violates Article 

 14 of the Constitution. The legislative competence of the State 

 
 legislature is not challenged. The challenge on the ground of Article 14 is premised on the following submissions: 10. The Petition was placed for hearing and final disposal in ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 14/71 wp33.12.resv

 a batch of Petitions challenging the constitutional validity of Section 48(5) . During the course of the hearing of several 

 
 companion Petitions, the State Government had filed affidavits in 

 reply pointing out that investigation revealed the existence of 

 
 Havala transactions where there was no sale of goods and the 

 selling dealer had merely issued tax invoices to the purchasing 

 
 dealer in order to defraud the Revenue and to allow the benefit of a 
 
 set off. In several of those cases, this Court declined to exercise its 

 writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, keeping the 
 
 issue of constitutional validity of Section 48(5) open since the 

 assessment was still to take place, during the course of which a full 
 

 enquiry of facts would result. In the present proceedings as well as 
 

 in the companion Petitions, it has not been the contention of the 

 Petitioners that a claim to a set off under Section 48 should be 

 allowed even in those cases where the transaction of sale is sham or 

 in cases involving fraud, collusion or connivance between selling 

 and purchasing dealers. In the present case though thre is no 

 allegation in the reply of a havala transaction, it has been stated on 

 affidavit by the State that a number of dealers from whom the 

 Petitioner purchased goods are untraceable. Since we have been ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 15/71 wp33.12.resv

 called upon to decide in these proceedings, the constitutional 

 
 validity of the provisions of Section 48(5) , we have heard 

 
 submissions of all the Counsel representing the concerned parties 

 in support of their challenge to the validity of the provision. 11. Mr.Sridharan, Learned Senior Counsel, supported the 

 
 challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 48(5) on the 

 following grounds : Submissions on behalf of the State 12. The Advocate General appearing on behalf of the State 
 
 has urged the following submissions : 13. Mr. E.P. Bharucha, learned senior counsel appearing on 
 
 behalf of the Sales Tax Authorities, urged that while making a 

 switch over from a single point levy to a multi point levy under the MVAT Act 2002, the State legislature has had to balance the twin 
 

 requirements of preventing a cascading effect with the necessity of 

 enforcing compliance. In the State of Maharashtra, the set off 

 claimed is in the amount of Rs.54,000 Crores. There are 6.5 lac 

 registered dealers in the State. After the enforcement of the MVAT 

 Act, 2002 , with effect from 1 April 2005, the State Government 

 introduced e-filing of returns. With the introduction of electronic 

 returns, the operating system has been so designed so that it can 

 detect mismatches between the claims of input credit where these ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 20/71 wp33.12.resv

 do not match with a deposit of tax in the Government Treasury. This would have been an insuperable task in the conventional 

 
 manual processes but is made possible with the introduction of e- filing. Nearly 35000 notices have been issued to Hawala 

 
 beneficiaries involving a quantum of nearly Rs.1,000 Crores. Nearly 3500 notices have been issued involving cases of mismatch 

 
 involving a revenue of nearly Rs.700 Crores. The State has 
 
 explained that it does not at an administrative level reject claims 

 for set off merely on the ground of a mismatch. Where 
 
 investigations reveal Hawala transactions or acts of fraud, collusion 

 or connivance, steps are taken to issue summons to the selling 
 

 dealers and to proceed against them by recourse to due process of 
 

 law. Also, in those cases, where no element of fraud, collusion or 

 connivance on the part of the purchasing dealer is shown the 

 authorities would take steps to pursue the selling dealer. If the 

 steps adopted against the selling dealer result in a recovery of the 

 tax, a set off or refund, as the case may be, would be granted to the 

 purchasing dealer. In other words, it has been submitted that while 

 the provisions of Section 48(5) are constitutional and valid, the 

 sales tax authorities would at the same time pursue cases where ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 21/71 wp33.12.resv

 selling dealers have not deposited tax in the Treasury and upon the 

 
 recovery of tax would extend the benefit of a set off or refund, as 

 
 the case may be, to the purchasing dealer. The economic basis of VAT 14. The guidelines published by OECD in 2006 recognize the 

 
 spread of Value Added Tax as the most important development in 
 
 taxation over the last half century. Limited to less than ten 

 countries in the late 1960s, the guidelines note that Value Added 
 
 Tax had been implemented by nearly 136 countries and accounted 

 for one fifth of the total tax revenue. The economic merit of a 
 

 Value Added Tax is its ability to raise revenue in a neutral and 
 

 transparent manner. The neutrality of a Value Added Tax has led 

 to it being regarded as a preferred alternative in the context of 

 trade liberalization. The OECD guidelines note that though 

 legislations may vary, some of the core features of the tax regime 

 are as follows : 15. The White Paper on a State level Value Add Tax 

 published under the aegis of the Empowered Committee of State 

 Finance Ministers on 17 January 2005 took note of the fact that in 

 the existing structure of indirect taxation, the tax regime resulted in 

 a cascading tax burden where inputs are first taxed and after a 

 commodity is produced with an input tax load, the output is taxed 

 again. VAT was considered as a preferred alternative to rationalize ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 23/71 wp33.12.resv

 the overall tax burden so as to obviate the cascading effects of 

 
 indirect taxation. Moreover, VAT was to replace existing systems of 

 
 inspection by a system of built in self assessment by dealers and 

 auditing, which would make the system simple and transparent. Improved tax compliance and the augmentation of revenue were 

 important policy objectives of the system of value added taxation. 16.
 
 As an economic concept, translated into State legislation 

 VAT subserves two important fiscal goals. First a system of taxation 
 
 based on VAT obviates a cascading effect of tax burdens. This is 

 achieved inter alia by the grant of a set off for input taxation and in 
 

 respect of taxes paid on previous purchases. Second the VAT 
 

 regime is also, and no less important, an instrument in promoting 

 compliance and for broad basing the tax base. Both aspects of the 

 regime have to be harmonized. This aspect merits importance 

 because while interpreting the provisions of legislation, it is 

 necessary to bring about a harmony that would preserve the 

 balance between the need on the one hand of ensuring against a 

 cascading tax burden and on the other hand of promoting 

 regulatory compliance. The first element is preserved by a multi ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 24/71 wp33.12.resv

 point levy and collection of tax which allows a set off of taxes paid 

 
 in the course of intermediate transactions. The second element of 

 
 compliance is ensured by envisaging that every business in the 

 supply chain is associated in the process of collecting the tax and by 

 
 remitting the proportion of tax corresponding to its own margin to 

 the government. The legislation in the present case which forms 

 
 the subject matter of consideration contains specific provisions 
 
 which are intended to bring about that harmony. The need for that 

 harmony must be underscored. For it is only then that the object 
 
 and purpose of the legislation can be attained. The position of the selling dealer 17. Certain fundamental principles in regard to sales tax 

 legislation emerge from Constitution Bench decisions of the 

 Supreme Court. In Tata Iron and Steel Company v. State of 

 Bihar,1 a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, while 

 considering the provisions of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947 observed that the primary liability to pay sales tax, so far as the 

 State is concerned, is on the seller. Though sales tax legislation 

 1 AIR 1958 SC 452 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 25/71 wp33.12.resv

 may permit the seller who is a registered dealer to collect the sales 

 
 tax as a tax from the purchaser, that as the Supreme Court 

 
 observed, does not do away with the primary liability of the seller 

 to pay the sales tax. The Supreme Court also held that the 

 
 registered dealer need not, if he so pleases or chooses, collect the 

 tax from the purchaser and in some cases as a result of competitive 

 
 conditions the dealer may find it profitable not to do so. Consequently as the Supreme Court held : 18. A subsequent decision of the Constitution Bench in George Oakes (Private) Ltd. v. State of Madras,2 held that when 

 the seller passes on a tax and buyer agrees to pay the sales tax in 

 addition to the price, "the tax is really part of the entire 

 consideration and the distinction between the two amounts - tax 

 and price - looses all significance from the point of view of 

 2 AIR 1962 SC 1037 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 26/71 wp33.12.resv

 legislative competence". The Constitution Bench held that while 

 
 enacting legislation under entry 54 of List II it is not incompetent to 

 
 the legislature to make the tax paid by the purchaser to the dealer 

 together with the sale price in consideration of the goods sold a 

 
 part of the turnover of the dealer; "nor does it mean that in law the 

 tax as imposed by government is a tax on the buyer making the 

 
 dealer a mere collecting agency so that the tax must always remain 
 
 outside the sale price". The judgment of the Supreme Court in Khazan Chand vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir,3 enunciates that 
 
 the liability to pay sales tax is that of the dealer and not of the 

 persons who purchase goods from him and for the purpose of sales 
 

 tax, it is immaterial whether the price of goods has been paid to the 
 

 dealer or is payable to him. The liability of the dealer to pay sales 

 tax is irrespective of whether he has made a profit or loss in his 

 business and whether he has received the sale price or not. The 

 purchaser is not bound to pay sales tax payable by the vendor 

 unless he had agreed to do so and where the purchaser agrees to 

 pay that amount, it forms part of the sale price. 19. Thereafter, in a judgment of the Supreme Court in Central Wines v. Special Commercial Tax Officer,4 the Supreme 

 
 Court while reiterating these principles held that it is evident that 

 "a dealer who sells the goods does not act as an agent for the State 

 
 in collecting the sales tax from the persons to whom he sells the 

 goods". The Supreme Court held that it is futile to contend that the 

 
 sales tax component of the sale price charged by the vendor to the 
 
 vendee is collected by him as an agent of the State Government. Even if the bill issued to the purchaser indicates the amount of sales 
 
 tax separately, what is collected from him is merely a part of the 

 sale price charged by the seller to the purchaser. The judgment in 
 

 Central Wines reiterates that the selling dealer, even when he 
 

 collects tax from the purchaser does not act as an agent for the 

 revenue and this would not turn on whether or not the invoice does 

 or does not reflect the amount of tax separately. The sales tax 

 component, ruled the Supreme Court, included in the sale price is 

 not includible in making the aggregate for the purpose of the 

 turnover. In the decisions both of two Judge Benches of the 

 Supreme Court in State of Punjab vs. Atul Fasteners Ltd. 5 and in 

 4 (1987) 2 SCC 371
 5 (2007) 7 VST 278 (SC) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 28/71 wp33.12.resv Corporation Bank vs. Saraswati,6 there are two sentences 

 
 indicating that sales tax is collected by a dealer as an agent of the 

 
 State. The position of the selling dealer was, however, not an issue 

 which arose for consideration in either of the two cases and in any 

 
 event, the two decisions cannot be regarded as laying down a 

 principle contrary to the earlier decisions of the Constitution 

 
 Benches noted above. 20. In Maharashtra, the definition of the expression 'sale 
 
 price' contains an explanation to the effect that it shall not include 

 tax paid or payable to a seller in respect of a sale. The point of 
 

 importance is that under the MVAT Act, 2002 the State legislature 
 

 is competent to levy a sales tax on every transaction involving a 

 sale of goods by a dealer. In a multi point levy, a charge of tax on 

 every transaction of the sale of goods by a dealer falls within the 

 domain of the State legislature. Value Added Tax legislation 

 however seeks to obviate the cascading effects of a tax burden by 

 introducing provisions for set off and refund that allow a dealer a 

 set off against taxes paid at prior stages in a link involving 

 6 (2009) 19 VST 84(SC) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:10 ::: VBC 29/71 wp33.12.resv

 successive transactions. The set off provision : The words "actually paid" into the government treasury signify that 

 a claim for set off cannot be in excess of the tax in respect of which 

 
 the set off is claimed that has been deposited into the treasury. The plain and natural meaning of the expression "actually paid" sections (3) and (4). If the legislature had intended to restrict the 

 
 ambit of sub-section (5), it would have done so by a simple 

 expedient of using words suggestive of the fact that the provision 

 
 was only intended to operate in the context of sub-sections (3) and 
 
 (4). Such an interpretation cannot obviously be adopted by the 

 Court. The legislature has created a separate sub-section for the 
 
 provision. But more importantly, sub-section (5) operates with an 

 initial declaration of the intent of the legislature that it was 
 

 intended for the removal of doubts. The provision must, therefore, 
 

 be understood as one that operates in the context of the entirety of 

 the scheme for set off and refund engrafted in Sub-section (5) of Section 48 . The legislative mandate must be construed on a 

 harmonious reading of all the provisions of Section 48 . 26. Sub-section (5) of Section 48 had a parallel in the 

 erstwhile provisions of Sub-section (3) of Section 42 of the 

 Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959. The provision came to be introduced ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 34/71 wp33.12.resv

 in the Act by a Validation Act of 1991.7 Section 42(3) as 

 
 introduced provided that for the removal of doubt it was declared 

 
 that in no case would the amount of drawback, set off or refund, 

 exceed the amount of tax in respect of the same goods paid, if any, 

 
 into the Government treasury. The Statement of objects and 

 reasons accompanying the Bill referred to the fact that set offs are 

 
 claimed on goods which form the subject matter of an exemption 
 
 from the payment of the whole or part of the tax payable as 

 notified. The Maharashtra Sales Tax Tribunal in a decision in the 
 
 case of Century Plastics8 held that a set off should be granted at 

 the rate mentioned in the Schedules without considering the effect 
 

 of an exemption notification. The Statement of objects and reasons 
 

 provided a rationale for the new provision: 7 The Bombay Sales Tax (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1991 (Maharashtra Act 10 of 1991)
 8 S.A. 464 of 1990 decided on 21 September 1990 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 35/71 wp33.12.resv

 
 The legislative intent underlying the previous provision was to give 

 
 effect to the legislative mandate that a set off should be granted out 

 of tax received. 27. The legislature did not contemplate the grant of a set off 

 
 without any tax being received into the Government Treasury. The 
 
 grant of a set off without the receipt of tax into the treasury would 

 result in a loss of revenue, a consequence which the provision for 
 
 set off does not contemplate. 28. The purpose of a set off is to obviate a cascading effect 
 

 of the tax burden on the ultimate consumer. This element of 

 legislative policy is to be balanced with the need for securing tax 

 compliance and ensuring against a loss of legitimate revenue owing 

 to Government. The balance between the two considerations is 

 drawn by ensuring that while a set off is available in respect of the 

 purchase tax paid on the same goods at an earlier stage, the set off 

 is based on the actual payment of tax into the government 

 treasury. Even considering the legislative history of the erstwhile ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 36/71 wp33.12.resv

 provisions contained in Section 42(3) of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 

 
 1959, it is evident that the legislative intent was not only to confine 

 
 it to a case such as Century Plastics. The plain language of Section 

 48(5) of the MVAT Act, 2002, cannot be controlled by the 

 
 Statement of objects and reasons accompanying the introduction of 

 a Bill pertaining to a provision contained in an earlier legislation. But we have also traced the legislative history of the earlier 
 
 provision as well (since it was relied upon by the Petitioner) in 

 order to establish the fundamental precept that a set off arises out 
 
 of the tax which has been deposited in the Government Treasury. 29. A set off constitutes a concession granted by the 
 

 legislature. In the absence of a set off under Section 48(5) , the 

 selling dealer would be liable under the charging provision of the MVAT Act, 2002 to pay tax on the sale consideration. There is no 

 independent right to a set off apart from Section 48 . The 

 entitlement to a set off is created by the taxing statute and the 

 terms on which a set off is granted by the legislation must be 

 strictly observed. VBC 37/71 wp33.12.resv 30. In Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Pvt. Ltd. vs. Commissioner 

 
 of Sales Tax,9 the Supreme Court while considering the provisions 

 
 for the grant of a set off under Rule 41(9) of the Bombay Sales Tax 

 Rules, 1959, explained the rationale for a set off as follows: The judgment of the Supreme Court enunciates that (i) The dealer 
 

 has no legal right to claim a set off of the purchase tax paid and of 

 input credit from the sales tax payable on the sale of goods 

 manufactured by him; (ii) The entitlement to a set off flows only 

 out of the rules; (iii) The grant of a set off is in the nature of a 

 concession; and (iv) It is open to the legislature while granting the 

 concession to restrict or curtail the extent of the entitlement as a 

 condition attaching to the concession. The Supreme Court 

 9 (1992) 3 SCC 624 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 38/71 wp33.12.resv

 observed as follows : 31. The same principle has been emphasized in a recent 

 judgment of a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Commissioner of Central Excise vs. Hari Chand Gopal:10 

 "The law is well settled that a person who claims 
 exemption or concession has to establish that he is 

 10 (2011 1 SCC 236 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 39/71 wp33.12.resv

 entitled to that exemption or concession. A provision 
 providing for an exemption, concession or exception, as 

 
 the case may be, has to be construed strictly with certain 
 exceptions depending upon the settings on which the 

 
 provision has been placed in the statute and the object 
 and purpose to be achieved. If exemption is available on 
 complying with certain conditions, the conditions have to 
 be complied with. The mandatory requirements of those 

 
 conditions must be obeyed or fulfilled exactly, though at 
 times, some latitude can be shown, if there is a failure to 
 comply with some requirements which are directory in 
 nature, the non-compliance of which would not affect the 

 
 essence or substance of the notification granting 
 exemption." 32. In India Agencies vs. Additional Commissioner of 

 Commercial Taxes, Bangalore,11 a Bench of three Learned Judges 
 

 of the Supreme Court emphasized that the provision under the 
 

 State Rules for furnishing the original Form-C in order to claim a 

 concessional rate of tax under Section 8(1) of the Central Sales 

 Tax Act, 1956, is mandatory. Before the Supreme Court, it was 

 urged by the assessee that there was no suggestion that there was 

 anything wrong with the genuineness of the transaction in which 

 case there was no basis to reject the claim for a concessional rate 

 of tax. The Supreme Court observed that the condition on which 

 the concession was granted was mandatory and a liberal view could 

 11 (2005) 2 SCC 129 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 40/71 wp33.12.resv

 not be taken merely on the ground that there was hardship to the 

 
 dealer. Issues of hardship, ruled the Supreme Court, are for the 

 
 legislature to consider. In that context, the Supreme Court 

 observed as follows: Constitutionality of fiscal legislation : The object of judicial review is not to second guess the legislature, 

 but to ensure that the legislature has not transgressed 

 constitutional boundaries. VBC 42/71 wp33.12.resv 35. The second reason for the judicial tradition is a precept 

 
 which recognizes the need for expertise in matters of economic 

 policy and fiscal legislation. These are matters where the 

 
 legislature and the executive draw upon a resource of expert 

 advice. Some times, as debates on several contemporary economic 

 
 issues would indicate, even experts tend to differ. Differences 
 
 between experts are foreshadowed by differences in conceptual 

 thinking as much as by differences in ideology. When they 
 
 exercise restraint in tax and economic matters, Judges only 

 reiterate the conventional wisdom that policy making, ideology and 
 

 the differences which arise out of conflicting interests in society are 
 

 best left to be resolved by democratically accountable bodies. Democratically elected institutions are responsible for the 

 consequences of their policy choices. The choices which have to be 

 made between competing fiscal and economic policies are not 

 neutral in terms of social impact. Those choices do affect social 

 outcomes and the distribution of resources. In economic and fiscal 

 matters, policy making involves an element of trial and error. Policies have to be shaped to adapt to a rapidly changing ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 43/71 wp33.12.resv

 environment. That is an area which Courts do not enter for sound 

 
 and rational considerations which have weighed with successive 

 
 generations of Judges. 36. In R.K. Garg vs. Union of India,12 a Constitution Bench 

 of the Supreme Court while adverting to the judicially recognized 

 
 and accepted presumption of constitutionality observed that the 
 
 burden is on the person who attacks the constitutionality of a 

 statute to establish a clear transgression of constitutional principle. On the power of judicial review in regard to economic and fiscal 

 issues, the Supreme Court observed as follows : 13 AIR 1962 SC 1733
 14 (2008) 4 SCC 720 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 46/71 wp33.12.resv 37. Legislative entries in the Seventh Schedule to the 

 
 Constitution have to be read in a broad and comprehensive sense 

 to include all subsidiary and ancillary matters. An entry which 

 
 authorises the imposition of a tax, such as Entry 54 of List II, also 

 authorises an enactment which prevents the tax imposed being 

 
 evaded. As a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court observed in Baldeo Singh vs. Commissioner of Income Tax , 15 "If it were not 

 to be so read, then the admitted power to tax a person on his own 
 
 income might often be made infructuous by ingenious contrivances. Experience has shown that attempts to evade the tax are often 
 

 made." 38. As a matter of constitutional interpretation, it is a settled 

 principle of law that while interpreting legislation, it is the duty of 

 the Court to interpret legislation as it stands and the Court must 

 give effect to the policy of the legislature as reflected in the 

 ordinary and natural meaning of the words used. In a recent 

 judgment in Shankar Raju Vs. Union of India,16 the Supreme 

 15 AIR 1961 SC 736 para 20 page 742
 16 2011 (271) E.L.T. 492 (SC) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 47/71 wp33.12.resv

 Court observed thus: There is no occasion for a Court to read down a statute which is 
 
 constitutional. The rule of reading down is used for the limited 

 purpose of making a particular provision workable and to bring it 
 

 in harmony with other provisions of the statute. However, in the 
 

 garb of reading down a provision, it would not be open to the Court 

 to read into it words and expressions not found in the statute. ( Union of India vs. IND Swift Laboratories Ltd. ).17 39. Section 48(5) uses the expression "actually paid" into the 

 government treasury. The words "actually paid" must receive their 

 ordinary and natural meaning. A set off under Section 48(5) 17 2011 (265) E.L.T. 3 (SC) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 48/71 wp33.12.resv

 would be allowable only to the extent of the tax, if any, that has 

 
 been actually paid into the treasury in respect of the purchase tax 

 
 paid on the same goods. The use of the word "actually" in 

 conjunction with the word "paid" leaves no manner of doubt about 

 
 the legislative intent. A set off is available where tax has been 

 deposited in the treasury and to the extent of the tax deposited. Where no tax has been deposited in the treasury, there is no tax 
 
 actually paid in respect of which a set off can be granted. In State 

 of Madhya Pradesh vs. Indore Iron and Steel Mills Pvt. Ltd.,18 the Supreme Court considered the provisions of a notification 

 issued under the Madhya Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1958 
 

 which contained a condition that the goods "had suffered entry tax" 18 AIR 1998 SC 3050 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 49/71 wp33.12.resv

 The impact of the entry tax upon the goods for which the 
 exemption is sought has to be felt; only then is the 

 
 exemption available. The use of the word "suffered" 
 makes this plain." There is no reason for the Court to depart from the plain and 

 
 ordinary meaning of the words "actually paid", when used in the 

 context of Section 48(5) . 40.
 
 The expression "paid" must have a contextual meaning, 
 
 obtaining content from the nature of the statutory provision in 

 which it has been used. In N.B.Sanjana, Assistant Collector of 
 

 Central Excise, Bombay vs. Elphinston Spinning & Weaving 
 

 Mills Co.Ltd.,19 the Supreme Court considered the meaning of the 

 expression "paid" and "short levied" in Rule 10 of the Central 

 Excise Rules, 1944. Rule 10 provided for the recovery of duties or 

 charges short levied or erroneously refunded. The Supreme Court 

 noted, that taken literally, the word "paid" means actually paid in 

 cash. The Supreme Court held that in Rule 10, the expression 

 "paid" should not be read in a vacuum and it will not be right to 

 construe the word literally, which means actually paid. The Court 

 19 AIR 1971 SC 2039 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 50/71 wp33.12.resv

 observed that in Rule 10, the expression 'paid' has been used to 

 
 denote the starting point of limitation of three months for the issue 

 
 of a written demand. If the literal construction that the amount 

 should have been actually paid was accepted, then in a case where 

 
 no duty has been levied, the Department would not be able to take 

 any action under Rule 10. Therefore, in that context, the Supreme 

 
 Court held that the proper interpretation to be placed to the 
 
 expression "paid" is "ought to have been paid". 41. In Sulekh Ram and Sons vs. Union of India , 20 a Single 

 Judge of the Delhi High Court considered a Central Excise 
 

 exemption notification which exempted from the payment of excise 
 

 duty iron and steel products falling under sub-item 1(a) of Item 

 26 AA of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Act made from 

 rerollable scrap on which appropriate amount of excise duty has 

 already been paid. The Petitioner purchased untested rails from 

 Hindustan Steel Limited. The excise authority issued a notice of 

 demand on the Petitioner on the ground that the duty had not been 

 paid. The Delhi High Court held that the purchaser of the goods 

 20 1978 (2) ELT (J525) (Del) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 51/71 wp33.12.resv

 from the manufacturer was entitled to rely upon the excise system 

 
 and to presume that duty had already been recovered from the 

 
 manufacturer, since he would have no means of knowing whether 

 excise duty had already been paid by the manufacturer before the 

 
 sale of the goods. In view of this context, the Delhi High Court held 

 that the words "already paid" would mean that the excise duty 

 
 must have been paid at the prior stage or ought to have been paid 
 
 at the prior stage. This judgment of the Delhi High Court was 

 affirmed by the Supreme Court in Collector of Central Excise vs. 
 
 Decent Dyeing Co.21 42. In the context in which the words "actually paid" are 
 

 used in the MVAT Act , "actually paid" means what has been as a 

 matter of fact deposited in the treasury. Hence, in the context of 

 the provisions of Section 48(5) , we cannot accept the contention of 

 the Petitioner that "actually paid .. in the government treasury" 43. Under Section 48(1) , the State Government is by rules, 

 empowered to provide for the grant of a set off or refund of the 
 

 whole or any part of the tax paid in respect of any earlier sale or 
 

 purchase of goods under the Act to the purchasing dealer. Under 

 sub-section (2), a set off or refund cannot be granted to a dealer in 

 respect of a purchase made from the registered dealer unless the 

 claimant produces a tax invoice containing a certificate that the 

 registration certificate of the selling dealer was in force on the date 

 of sale by him and the due tax, if any, payable on the sale has been 

 or shall be paid and unless the certificate is signed by the selling 

 dealer or by an authorised representative. Sub-section (2) of ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 54/71 wp33.12.resv Section 48 allows a facility to a registered dealer to claim a set off 

 
 on the basis of a tax invoice containing a certificate of the selling 

 
 dealer in the terms as indicated. Section 86 details the 

 requirements of a tax invoice. Under Rule 55, no set off or refund 

 
 can be granted unless the conditions which are prescribed in that 

 provision are fulfilled. The particulars which are to be certified in 

 
 the tax invoice, bill or cash memorandum are further elaborated 
 
 upon in Rule 77. The provisions of Section 48(2) have to be 

 harmoniously construed with the provisions of Section 48(5) . Entitlement to a set off, subject to compliance with the provisions 

 of sub-section (2), is defeasible in the event that purchase tax on 
 

 the goods has not been actually paid into the Government treasury. All the provisions form part of one composite scheme. All the 

 provisions of Section 48 have to be construed harmoniously. One 

 part of Section 48 cannot be read disjointed from the rest. The 

 legislature would not have intended to allow one part of its scheme 

 for set off without the rest. To obliterate one part would do 

 violence to the entirety. VBC 55/71 wp33.12.resv 44. In State of Madras vs. Radio and Electricals Ltd.22 the 

 
 Supreme Court considered the provisions of Section 8(1) of the 

 
 Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 and the Registration and Turnover 

 Rules, 1957. The issue was whether, upon a purchasing dealer in 

 
 one State furnishing a Form-C declaration to the selling dealer in 

 another State, certifying that the goods purchased were covered by 

 
 the certificate of registration obtained by the purchasing dealer and 
 
 were intended for resale, or use in the manufacture of goods for 

 sale and that declaration was produced by the selling dealer, was it 
 
 open to the Sales Tax Authority to deny to the selling dealer the 

 benefit of a concessional rate under Section 8(1) on the ground 
 

 that the goods were incapable of being used for the purpose for 
 

 which they were declared to be purchased. The Supreme Court 

 observed that the scheme of the Rules and the Act is that the 

 purchasing dealer as well as the selling dealer must register 

 themselves. If declared goods were specified in the certificate of 

 registration of the purchasing dealer and if it was certified that the 

 goods were intended for resale by him, the sale was subject to a 

 concessional rate of tax under Section 8(1) . The seller could have 

 22 1966(18) STC 222 (SC) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 56/71 wp33.12.resv

 no control over the purchasing dealer and all that he has to satisfy 

 
 himself is that the purchaser is a registered dealer and that the 

 
 goods purchased are specified in a certificate. Once these two 

 matters were duly satisfied, the selling dealer was under no further 

 
 obligation to oversee the application of the goods for the purpose 

 for which it was represented that the goods were intended to be 

 
 used. The Supreme Court held as follows : 45. In Chuni Lal Parshadi Lal vs. Commissioner of Sales ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 57/71 wp33.12.resv

 Tax23, the issue which fell for consideration was whether the dealer 

 
 could be declared as non-taxable on sales of yarn which he made 

 
 against III-A forms issued under the U.P. Sales Tax Act, 1948 

 though the purchaser instead of selling yarn in the same condition 

 
 had consumed the same. The Supreme Court held as follows : 46. These decisions deal with the use of the goods by the 

 purchasing dealer subsequent to the sale and hold that the selling 

 dealer could not be held liable for an act of the purchasing dealer in 

 the use or application of the goods subsequent to the sale. Moreover, neither of the two cases involved a constitutional 

 challenge to a provision such as Section 48(5) of the MVAT Act 

 23 (1986) 62 STC 112 ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 58/71 wp33.12.resv

 under which set off cannot exceed in any case, the tax actually paid 

 
 in the treasury on the same goods. 47. In the State of Maharashtra vs. Suresh Trading 

 
 Company,24 the Respondents who were registered dealers had 

 purchased goods from a registered dealer who had issued invoices 

 
 containing a certificate that the registration of the selling dealer 
 
 was in force on the date of the sale. The Respondents upon 

 reselling the goods, claimed to deduct from their turnover of sales, 
 
 the resales of the goods which had been purchased by them. The 

 Assessing Officer disallowed the claim on the ground that the 
 

 registration of the dealer from whom the Respondents had 
 

 purchased goods had been cancelled with retrospective effect. The 

 Supreme Court held that the purchasing dealer was entitled in law 

 to rely upon the certificate of registration of the selling dealer and 

 the retrospective cancellation of the registration certificate of the 

 selling dealer would have no effect upon any person who had acted 

 upon the strength of a registration certificate when the registration 

 was current. Suresh Trading holds that the retrospective 

 24 (1998) 109 STC 439 (SC) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 59/71 wp33.12.resv

 cancellation of a registration certificate does not affect transactions 

 
 carried out during its validity, on the strength of the certificate. In ITC Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise,25 the Supreme 

 Court has dealt with declarations which are required to be 

 
 furnished under diverse statutes, thus : 48. The decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Gheru Lal Bal Chand vs. State of Haryana,26 arose on a 

 challenge to the provisions of Section 8(3) of the Haryana Value 

 Added Tax Act, 2003. Section 8(3) was to the following effect : The Punjab and Haryana High Court held that while the 
 
 genuineness of a certificate and a declaration may be examined by 

 the taxing authority, the onus cannot be placed on the assessee to 
 
 establish the correctness or the truthfulness of the statements 

 recorded therein. The High Court held that the Department must 
 

 allow the claim once a proper declaration is furnished. In the 
 

 event of its falsity, the Department can proceed against the 

 defaulter when the genuineness of the declaration is not in 

 question. However, an exception has been carved out in the event 

 that fraud, collusion or connivance is established between the 

 registered purchasing dealer or the immediate preceding selling 

 dealer or the earlier dealer in the chain. The judgment of the 

 High Court did not involve a challenge to a provision such as Section 48(5) of the MVAT Act, 2002. We may only note with the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 61/71 wp33.12.resv

 greatest respect and deference that while the High Court has relied 

 
 upon the observations contained in the decisions of the Benches of 

 
 two Learned Judges of the Supreme Court in Atul Fasteners and 

 in Corporation Bank, the earlier decisions of the Constitution 

 
 Benches in TISCO and in George Oakes were not perhaps drawn to 

 the attention of the Court. Moreover, the decision in Elphinston 

 
 Spinning which construed the word "paid" in Rule 10 of the 
 
 Central Excise Rules involved an issue of short levy. Finally we 

 may note that a provision such as Section 48(5) which uses clear 
 
 and express words such as that in "no case" shall a set off exceed 

 the tax "actually paid" in the government treasury did not fall for 
 

 consideration. 49. The State Government has placed before the Court, both 

 on affidavit and during the course of the hearing, the steps which it 

 shall pursue against a selling dealer who, having collected tax from 

 the purchasing dealer does not deposit the tax into the Government 

 Treasury. The Value Added Tax in the State of Maharashtra was 

 introduced with effect from 1 April 2005 under the MVAT Act, 

 2002 . The Act replaces a single point levy of tax under the Bombay ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 62/71 wp33.12.resv Sales Tax Act, 1959 for a multi point levy of tax. Under the MVAT 

 
 Act, 2002 , VAT is levied at every stage. A set off or input credit of 

 
 tax paid on purchase is granted to the claimant dealer. This 

 resulted in an increase in the number of dealers claiming input 

 
 credit. The Revenue has disclosed that for financial year 2010-11, 

 the claim on account of input credit was Rs.54,251 crores. In this 

 
 background, the grant of input credit requires proper verification in 
 
 order to ensure that taxes are received in the Government Treasury. The filing of true and correct returns by dealers assumed 
 
 importance as under the VAT regime assessment is by way of 

 exception. The State of Maharashtra was one of the first States in 
 

 the country to introduce e-filing in 2008. Registration, filing of 
 

 returns, making of payments and the submission of audited 

 statements (in Form e-704) is in the electronic form. For that 

 purpose a new software has been developed and deployed since 

 2010-11. As a result of electronic filing the system can generate (i) A list of short filing; and (ii) A list of non-filing of returns. The 

 electronic system generates a mis-match list for the purpose of 

 ascertaining the claim of input tax credit. The mis-match list in 

 turn, consists of: VBC 63/71 wp33.12.resv (i) A negative list where the vendor has not deposited the tax; (ii) A positive list where the input credit is allowable 

 
 to the claimant dealer; and (iii)Cases where returns are not filed, where input credit is not 

 
 allowed to a claimant dealer unless the default is made good by the 

 vendor. Both in the case of the negative list where there has been a 

 
 short filing of taxes and in a situation where returns have not been 
 
 filed by the vendor, the State Sales Tax Department conducts an 

 enquiry in regard to the vendor. In cases of Havala transactions, 
 
 recovery action and/or prosecution is initiated against such 

 suppliers. On the other hand, where the enquiry reveals that the 
 

 supplier is a genuine dealer, but there has been a short filing of 
 

 taxes or returns, recovery is initiated against the selling dealer 

 and/or an assessment is made. Where the selling dealer has not 

 filed returns, an order of assessment is passed under Section 23 . Section 23(1) provides for an assessment where a registered dealer 

 fails to file a return in respect of any period by the prescribed date. Under sub-section (2) of Section 23 , the Commissioner is 

 empowered to issue a notice to a dealer even where a return is filed 

 where he considers that an enquiry is necessary to ensure that the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 64/71 wp33.12.resv

 return is correct and complete. If a default has not been rectified, 

 
 recovery action and/or prosecution is initiated. Section 74 provides 

 
 for offences. Where the dealer has not submitted audited reports 

 in Form e-704, penalty proceedings are initiated under Section 

 
 61(2) . The Court has been informed that if in any of the above 

 three situations, a default is made good by the supplying dealer 

 
 (vendor), input tax credit to that extent of the default which has 
 
 been made good, shall be allowed to the claimant dealer either in 

 appeal or by way of assessment and/or review. 50. The regime of electronic filing generates data pertaining 
 

 to a web of complex transactions. The system of tax collection, 
 

 assessment and refunds can move towards a more objective and 

 transparent process with the deployment of electronic and digitised 

 processes. The system is capable of providing transparent and 

 accountable governance for the tax payer. It allows authorities to 

 investigate transactions which in the manual processes followed in 

 an earlier era would have been difficult or complex. Electronic 

 filing of returns, payments and audited statements would enable a 

 matching process to be carried out between the input credit ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 65/71 wp33.12.resv

 claimed by way of a set off and the tax which has been deposited by 

 
 the selling vendor. During the course of the hearing of these 

 
 proceedings, the Court has been informed that corrective action 

 shall be taken to allow an additional claim of input tax credit to a 

 
 claimant dealer even where it has been initially disallowed by the 

 Department. The State sales tax department has stated before the 

 
 Court that while the electronic system is being continuously 
 
 evolved, the following steps are being taken to promote greater 

 transparency and efficient handling of claims for input tax credit: 51. The Learned Advocate General appearing on behalf of 

 the State has tendered a statement of the steps that would be 

 
 pursued against defaulting selling dealers : However, the Sales Tax Department will retain 

 
 the option of denying a set off and of pursuing 
 all selling dealers in the chain until recovery is 

 
 ultimately made from any one of them. 3) The full machinery of the Act will be invoked 
 by the Sales Tax Department wherever possible against 

 
 Defaulters with a view to recover the amount of tax due 
 from them, notwithstanding the above. Once there is 
 final recovery (after exhaustion of all legal proceedings) 
 from the Defaulter, in whole or part, a refund will be 

 
 given (after the end of that financial year) to the 
 dealer(s) claiming set off to the extent of the recovery. This refund will be made pro rata if there is more than 
 one dealer who was denied set off; 4) Refund will be given by the Sales Tax 
 Department even without any refund application having 
 been filed by the dealers, since the Sales Tax Department 
 will reconcile the payments, inform the dealer of the 
 

 recovery from the Defaulter concerned and grant the 
 refund; 5) Details of Defaulters will be uploaded on the 
 website of the Sales Tax Department and dealers denied 

 set off will also be given the names of the concerned 
 Defaulter(s); 6) The above does not apply to transactions by 
 dealers where the certificate/invoice issued is not 

 genuine (including hawala transactions). In such cases, 
 no set off will be granted to the dealer claiming to be a 
 purchaser; 7) The above should not prevent dealers from 
 adopting such remedies as are available to them in law 
 against the Defaulters. VBC 68/71 wp33.12.resv 52. This case highlights the complexity of the issue with 

 which both the legislature and tax administrators must grapple in 

 
 devising a tax regime governed by the Value Added Tax. The 

 legislature has performed a balancing exercise between the need 

 
 on the one hand of ensuring the interests of the ultimate consumer 
 
 by obviating a cascading tax burden and on the other hand, 

 securing governance under rule of law principles which promote 
 
 transparency and certainty while at the same time protecting the 

 legitimate revenues of the State. The Value Added Tax regime has 
 

 replaced a single point levy with a multiple point levy in which 
 

 every dealer is a vital link in the levy and collection of tax. As the 

 number of dealers has increased manifold, conventional systems of 

 tax administration have to be replaced by web based electronic 

 systems. The system which the administrator must devise must 

 continuously evolve both with a view to simplify procedures and to 

 make the process including that relating to beneficial provisions 

 such as set off and refund objective and transparent. The 

 judgments of the Supreme Court, including in R.K.Garg, recognise ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 69/71 wp33.12.resv

 the latitude which the law confers upon the Legislature and the 

 
 executive to experiment with new systems in cases involving fiscal 

 
 and economic policy. Systems have to evolve as experiences result 

 in shared learning and as technology keeps abreast of changing 

 
 needs. 53. In the view which we have taken in these proceedings, 
 
 the constitutionality of the provision of Section 48(5) is upheld. Similarly Section 51(7) which requires an application for refund 
 
 and specifies the period within which an application can be made, 

 cannot be assailed as being invalid. Regulating the process of 
 

 refunds is as much within the province of a legitimate tax 
 

 enactment and the legislature is within its power in requiring a 

 refund to be applied for within a reasonable period. The right to 

 obtain a set off is a right conferred by statute and the legislature 

 while recognizing an entitlement to a set off in certain 

 circumstances is lawfully entitled to prescribe the conditions subject 

 to which a set off can be obtained. If the legislature, as in the 

 present case, prescribes that a set off should be granted only to 

 the extent to which tax has been deposited in the treasury on the ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 70/71 wp33.12.resv

 purchase of goods, it is within a reasonable exercise of its legislative 

 
 power in so mandating. This does not offend Article 14. A plea of 

 
 hardship cannot result in the invalidation of a statutory provision in 

 a fiscal enactment which is otherwise lawful. At the same time, we 

 
 have set out in detail the assurance which has been placed before 

 the Court by the State Revenue in the present case of the steps that 

 
 would be taken to pursue recoveries against selling dealers who 
 
 have either not filed returns or, having filed returns have not 

 deposited the tax collected from the purchasing dealer in whole or 
 
 in part. 54. For the reasons indicated earlier, we do not find any 
 

 merit in the challenge to the provisions of Section 48(5) of the 

 MVAT Act, 2002. We decline to accede to the prayer for reading 

 down the provisions of Section 48(5) . The order of assessment is 

 subject to the remedy of an appeal in the course of which it would 

 be open to the Petitioner to pursue the remedy available in law. As 

 regards the recoveries to be made from the selling dealers, the 

 State government and the sales tax authorities shall abide by the 

 assurance and statement recorded in the judgment. The Petition ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 ::: VBC 71/71 wp33.12.resv

 shall accordingly stand disposed of. There shall be no order as to 

 
 costs. ( Dr.D.Y.Chandrachud, J.)

 
 ( R.D.Dhanuka, J. ) ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:11 :::