should exist for which extreme caution is to be exercised.

 688.2. The 50% rule spoken in Balaji and affirmed in Indra

 Sawhney is to fulfil the objective of equality as engrafted in Article

 14 of which Articles 15 and 16 are facets. 50% is reasonable and it

 is to attain the object of equality. To change the 50% limit is to

 have a society which is not founded on equality but based on caste

 rule. 688.3. We are of the considered opinion that the cap on

 percentage of reservation as has been laid down by the

 Constitution Bench in Indra Sawhney is with the object of striking a

 balance between the rights under Articles 15(1) and 15(4) as well

 as Articles 16(1) and 16(4). The cap on percentage is to achieve

 principle of equality and with the object to strike a balance which

 cannot be said to be arbitrary or unreasonable. 688.4. Providing reservation for advancement of any socially and

educationally backward class in public services is not the only

means and method for improving the welfare of backward class.

The State ought to bring other measures including providing

educational facilities to the members of backward class free of

cost, giving concession in fee, providing opportunities for skill

development to enable the candidates from the backward class to

be self-reliant. 688.5. There can be no quarrel that society changes, law changes,

people change but that does not mean that something which is

good and proven to be beneficial in maintaining equality in the

society should also be changed in the name of change alone.

688.6. When the Constitution Bench in Indra Sawhney held that

50% is upper limit of reservation under Article 16(4) , it is the law

which is binding under Article 141 and to be implemented.

688.7. We find that the Constitution Bench judgment in Indra

Sawhney is also fully applicable in reference to Article 15(4) of the

Constitution of India. 688.8. The setting aside of 50% ceiling by the eleven-Judge Bench

in T.M.A. Pai Foundation {(2002) 8 SCC 481} as was laid down by

St. Stephen's case {(1992) 1 SCC 558} i.e. 50% ceiling in

admission in aided minority institutions has no bearing on the

principle of 50% ceiling laid down by Indra Sawhney with respect to

reservation. The judgment of T.M.A. Pai was in reference to rights

of minority under Article 30 and is not relevant for reservation 72 under Articles 16(4) and 15(4) of the Constitution.

688.9. The Constitution (Eighty-first Amendment) Act, 2000 by

which clause (4-B) was inserted in Article 16 makes it clear that

ceiling of 50% "has now received constitutional recognition".

688.10. We fully endorse the submission of Shri Rohatgi that

extraordinary situations indicated in para 810 of Indra Sawhney

case were only illustrative and cannot be said to be exhaustive. We

however do not agree with Mr Rohatgi that para 810 provided only

a geographical test. The use of the expression "on being out of the

mainstream of national life", is a social test, which also needs to be

fulfilled for a case to be covered by exception. 688.11. We do not find any substance in any of the 10 grounds

urged by Shri Rohatgi and Shri Kapil Sibal for revisiting and

referring the judgment of Indra Sawhney to a larger Bench.

688.12. What was held by the Constitution Bench in Indra

Sawhney on the relevance and significance of the principle of stare

decisis clearly binds us. The judgment of Indra Sawhney has stood

the test of time and has never been doubted by any judgment of

this Court. The Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in Indra

Sawhney neither needs to be revisited nor referred to a larger

Bench for consideration. 688.13. The Constitution Bench in M. Nagaraj does not contain any

ratio that ceiling of 50% reservation may be exceeded by showing

quantifiable contemporary data relating to backwardness. The

Commission has completely misread the ratio of the judgment, 73 when the Commission took the view that on the quantifiable data

ceiling of 50% can be breached. 688.14. The Commission and the High Court found existence of

the extraordinary situations with regard to exceeding 50% ceiling in

respect to grant of separate reservation to Marathas because the

population of backward class is 80% and reservation limit is only

50%, containing the Marathas in pre-existing reservation for OBC

shall not be justice to them, which circumstance is not covered

under the parameters indicated in Indra Sawhney case as

extraordinary circumstance to breach 50% ceiling.

688.15. We have found that no extraordinary circumstances were

made out in granting separate reservation of Maratha community

by exceeding the 50% ceiling limit of reservation. The 2018 Act

violates the principle of equality as enshrined in Article 16. The

exceeding of ceiling limit without there being any extraordinary

circumstances clearly violates Articles 14 and 16 of the

Constitution which makes the enactment ultra vires.

688.16. The proposition is well settled that Commissions' reports

are to be looked into with deference. However, one of the

parameter of scrutiny of Commission's report as approved by this

Court is that on the basis of data and materials referred to in the

report whether conclusions arrived at by the Commission are

justified. 688.17. The measures taken under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) can be

examined as to whether they violate any constitutional principle, 74 and are in conformity with the rights under Articles 14 , 15 and 16 of

the Constitution. The scrutiny of measures taken by the State,

either executive or legislative, thus, has to pass the test of

constitutional scrutiny. 688.18. The word "adequate" is a relative term used in relation to

representation of different castes and communities in public

employment. The objective of Article 16(4) is that backward class

should also be put in mainstream to enable to share power of the

State by affirmative action. To be part of public service, as

accepted by the society of today, is to attain social status and play

a role in governance. 688.19. We have examined the issues regarding representation of

Marathas in State services on the basis of facts and materials

compiled by Commission and obtained from the States and other

sources. The representation of Marathas in public services in

Grades A, B, C and D comes to 33.23%, 29.03%, 37.06% and

36.53% computed from out of the open category filled posts, is

adequate and satisfactory representation of Maratha community.

One community bagging such number of posts in public services is

a matter of pride for the community and its representation in no

manner can be said to be not adequate in public services.

688.20. The Constitutional precondition for providing reservation as

mandated by Article 16(4) is that the backward class is not

adequately represented in the public services. The Commission

laboured under misconception that unless Maratha community is 75 not represented equivalent to its proportion, it is not adequately

 represented. Indra Sawhney has categorically held that what is

 required by the State for providing reservation under Article 16(4) is not proportionate representation but adequate representation.

 688.21. The Constitutional precondition as mandated by Article

 16(4) being not fulfilled with regard to Maratha class, both the

 Gaikwad Commission's Report/Report of the Gaikwad Commission

 and consequential legislation are unsustainable." 71. In Jarnail Singh & Others-II (supra), with regard to proportionate

representation as test of adequacy in promotional posts, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court had observed as follows: 72. While striking down Rule 9.3 of the Madhya Pradesh Medical and Dental

Graduate Entrance Examination Rules, 2003, which increased the percent of

reservation to 56.94%, the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, in Mayank Jain

(supra) had observed as follows: We are conscious that the aforesaid decision was rendered

in the context of reservation for admission to the Post Graduate

Course in various professional faculties but we have referred to

the aforesaid paragraph to indicate what is the view of the Apex

Court in relation to weaker sections and what their Lordships have

stated therein. We may repeat at the cost of repetition that the

cause put forth by the State for advancement of the weaker

section can not distort the dictum of the Apex Court. It was

contended before us that in certain exceptional cases extra

reservation is permissible. But, in our considered opinion, the 78 present one does not fit into the said prism. When the students

 are appearing in the examination harbouring hope that when they

 would qualify they would be selected their hopes can not be

 marred or smothered by ushering in a rule of this type. The said

 Rule does not subserve the constitutional philosophy and as we

 have noted earlier it runs contrary to the principles laid down by the Apex Court. If we allow ourselves to say so, an innovative

 attempt has been made to frame a rule to enhance the conception

 of reservation which the law prescribes. By no stretch of

 rationalization or ratiocination it can be conceived that this is the

 field where this innovative approach is warranted. On the contrary,

 it is absolutely unthinkable." 73. Grant of reservation under Articles 15(4) or 16(4), either by legislative

measure or by an executive order are measures which act as a tool and

means to attain the constitutional goal of fulfilment of the principle of equality.

Such reservation are enabling provisions to facilitate the State to make any

provision for reservation for appointment on a post in favour of backward class

of citizens. Unless the educational and economic interest of the weaker

sections of the people are promoted by affirmative action, the constitutional

goal of establishing social and economic equality will not be attained and as

such, while Article 15(4) provides for making any special provision for the

advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens

or for the SCs and STs, Article 15(5) provides for making any special

provision for advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes

of citizens or for the SCs and STs relating to their admission to educational 79 institutions including aided or unaided private educational institutions other

than minority educational institutions referred to in Article 30(1). It is worth

remembering that framers of the Constitution intended the Constitution to

bring in winds of social change in a caste-ridden society. It needs no

reiteration that equality has been recognized as a basic feature of our

Constitution and to preserve equality, a harmonious balance has to be struck

to ensure that the fundamental ethos and the spirit as encapsulated in Articles

14 and 16 reign supreme and at the same time, to ensure that it galvanises

social and economic upliftment of the backward classes. The condition

precedent for exercise of power under Article 16(4) is that backward class is

not adequately represented in the services under the State. Reservation can

be made in service and educational institutions only when the State is

satisfied that representation of backward classes of citizens therein is not

adequate. In order to ascertain the extent of reservation, the State has to

justify the existence of compelling reasons, namely, backwardness,

inadequacy in representation and overall administrative efficiency before

making provision for reservation. 74. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Indra Sawhney (supra) had observed

that not only should a class be a backward class for meriting reservations, it

should also be inadequately represented in the services under the State. The

language of Clause (4) makes it clear that the question whether a backward

class of citizens is not adequately represented in the services under the State

is a matter within the subjective satisfaction of the State. This opinion can be

formed by the State on its own, i.e., on the basis of the material it has in its

possession already or it may gather such material through a 80 Commission/Committee, person or authority. There must be some material

upon which the opinion is formed. While observing that in a matter of the

present nature, the Court should show due deference to the opinion of the

State, it does not, however, mean that the opinion formed is beyond judicial

scrutiny altogether. It was further held that Article 16(4) speaks about

adequate representation and not proportionate representation and adequate

representation cannot be read as proportionate representation. Accordingly, it

was held that it was not possible to accept the theory of proportionate

representation, though the proportion of population of backward classes to

the total population would certainly be relevant. It was held that the power

conferred by Article 16(4) should be exercised reasonably and fairly, in a fair

manner and within reasonably limits - and what is more reasonable than to

say that reservation under Clause 16(4) shall not exceed 50% of the

appointments or posts, barring certain extra-ordinary situations. Accordingly, it

was held that it is an irresistible conclusion that the reservation contemplated

in Article 16(4) should not exceed 50%. While holding 50% to be the rule, it

was also observed that it is necessary to point out certain extraordinary

situations inherent in the great diversity of our country and the people. It might

so happen that in far-flung and remote areas the population inhabiting those

areas might, on account of their being out of the main stream of national life

and in view of conditions peculiar to and characteristical to them, they need to

be treated in a different way, some relaxation in this strict rule may become

imperative. In doing so, extreme caution is to be exercised and a special case

made out. The Hon'ble Supreme Court also held that for the purpose of 81 applying the rule of 50%, a year should be taken as the unit and not the entire

strength of the cadre, service or the unit, as the case may be. 75. It will be appropriate to extract from paragraph 6 of the return filed to the

application for stay wherein the number of posts for SCs, STs and OBCs in

the State and the appointments made are indicated. 76. A perusal of the above would go to show that a large number of

 vacancies which are specifically earmarked for STs, SCs and OBCs are not

 filled up. There is no explanation whatsoever as to why such vacancies are

 lying unfilled and for how long. 77. In paragraph 17 of the said additional return, it is stated as follows: 78. It will also be relevant to extract paragraphs 18 to 30, where

explanations to the tables noted above are given here in below: Consequently, at the starting point, that is, prior to reservation, it

was well-known that SCs, STs and OBCs were not able to compete

with the SACs and secure a reasonable number of posts in

comparison with their population percentage and, therefore, their

representation in the services was nil or very low. That is why

reservation was introduced so that they could secure a reasonable

number of posts without being exposed to competition among

unequal social classes. Since the origin of reservation is in the

inability of the SCs, STs and OBCs to secure a reasonable number

of posts in open competition for historical reasons, whether their

representation in the services has become inadequate or remains

inadequate has to be seen on the basis of data which does not take

into account posts secured by reservation but only on data on posts

secured through open competition. 21. Table 1 shows the number of posts for which selections were

made by the State Public Service Commission and the number of

SCs, STs and OBCs selected by the PSC on the basis of marks

obtained in open competition and without the aid of reservation, 88 bringing out the factum of their extreme inadequacy of

representation. It may be observed from the Table that as against

the proportion of Scheduled Castes in the total population, only one-

third of them are able to get selected by the Commission in open

competition; and, for the Scheduled Tribes even fewer i.e., less than

one-fourth are able to get selected in open competition as a

proportion of their population percentage. 22. Tables 2 and 3 which though not related to services

corroborated the continuing inability of the SCs, STs and OBCs to

obtain their due seats in open competition i.e. without the aid of

reservation, in educational institutions. These tables show the

number of students selected in pre-medical tests (Table-2) and pre-

engineering tests (Table-3) from 2008 onwards and the number of

SCs, STs and OBCs who were selected on the basis of marks

obtained in open competition without the aid of reservation. Their

inability to compete with the SACs in securing seats in higher

education, as a result of factors such as the centuries-old caste

system, naturally reflects in their inability to secure adequate

representation in various services. It was to remedy this

unacceptable situation that the Central Educational Institutions

(Reservation in Admissions) Act, 2006 was enacted with near

unanimity by Parliament, which was later upheld by the Supreme

Court alongwith the 93rd Constitutional Amendment that inserted a

new clause (5) in Article 15 of the Constitution in so far it related to

institutions covered by the Act. 23. The poor and grossly inadequate representation of SCs, STs

and OBCs in access to post under the State Government or seats in

matters of admissions to professional courses of studies as shown

in Tables 1 to 3 is because of their historically inherited inequality

over many centuries of exploitation, deprivation and disadvantages

which continue to a large extent even today. 24. Tables 4 to 8 throw light on the deprivation and disadvantages

suffered by SCs, STs and OBCs compared to the SACs in

employment/occupational status, monthly per capita expenditure of

these four categories and the level of their general education. 25. Table 4 shows that only 12% of SACs are in rural agricultural

labour, which is the most disadvantaged occupational category. The

presence of SACs in rural agricultural labour is the least while the

presence of SCs, OBCs and STs (in that order) in rural agricultural

labour is 2½ to 4½ times more than the former's presence.

Conversely, the proportion of SACs in cultivation of own lands,

which is the most advantageous occupational category in rural

areas, is nearly double that of SCs and considerably higher than that

of OBCs; though a higher percentage of STs are owner cultivators,

their lands are located in remote areas and are so poorly developed

and so poorly linked to the market and have received so little of

financial and modern technological inputs, including irrigation, that

the benefit from this for the STs is limited. This can be seen when

this table is read with Table 5 which shows that in rural Chhattisgarh

the largest proportion of STs have the lowest monthly per capita 90 expenditure (MPCE) (which is the statistical method followed to

have an idea of income), followed closely by the SCs and then by

the OBCs. The proportion of the SACs in the MPCE category is the

least. Conversely, in the MPCE classes of Rs. 510 and above, the

proportion of STs is the least, closely followed by the SCs, then by

the OBCs while the SACs have the highest proportion. 26. Table 4 also shows the gross disadvantage and deprivation of

the SCs, OBCs and STs in their high proportion in urban casual

labour which is the most disadvantaged occupational category in the

urban area. In this occupational category, the presence of SACs is

almost nil, while OBCs, SCs and STs in that order have higher

proportion in this category - many multiples of the SACs, ranging

from multiples of 10 to 20. 27. Table 6 shows the high proportion of STs followed by the SCs

and OBCs among non-literate persons, both rural and urban put

together, being about 3 to 4 times more than the SACs. Conversely,

among graduates and above, the proportion of STs, SCs and OBCs

is minuscule while the proportion of SACs is far higher than them,

more than 6 to 9 times more than the three disadvantaged social

classes. 28. Table 7 shows the disparity between the SCs, STs and OBCs on

one side, and the 'others' (i.e. SACs) on the other side, at different

levels of education in the urban area separately since greater

opportunities for advancement and upward occupational and social 91 mobility exist in urban areas compared to rural areas. In the lowest

ladder of education, namely, illiteracy, the proportion of SACs is in

single digits (7.3%), while illiterate STs, SCs and OBCs are

respectively about 5 times, 4 times and 3½ times more than SAC

illiterates. Conversely, in the highest ladder of graduates and above,

which is the educational level that helps most in advancement and

upward occupational and social mobility, the proportion of SACs at

25.3% is the highest, while the SCs, STs and OBCs are represented

in this urban educational category to a much lesser extent than the

SACs. 28. Table 8 brings out the very high proportion of STs, SCs and

OBCs and the low proportion of SACs in the matter of proportion of

households with no literate adult and no adult female member for

rural and urban areas separately. Among urban SACs, households

without a single literate adult member is virtually nil, while such

households are about 40 times more among STs and about 30

times more among SCs and Obcs. More details can be seen in the

table. 30. It is humbly submitted that, when examined in the light of the

aforesaid positions in law and the data produced by the answering

respondent, it is self-evident that the impugned amendment (and the

consequent notification) is an entirely valid and legitimate exercise

of legislative power." 79. The core issue is whether 58% reservation under the Act of 2011 and

Act of 2012 is permissible. Reservation of 76% in district Surguja, 64% in

district Surajpur, 80% in district Balrampur-Ramanujganj, 81% in district

Jashpur, 66% in district Koria and 74% in Surguja Division incorporated in

Schedule II Model Roster in Rules of 1998 vide notification dated 29.11.2012,

is also an issue. 80. It was pleaded in a return by the State that the tables forming part of the

return provide the basis for revising the percentage of reservation. 81. A bare glance at table 1 and 2 would show that data incorporated in

such table also include the data for the year 2012. Obviously, the year 2012

could not have been in consideration when the Amendment Act was enacted

in the year 2011. Only on the basis of certain data of six years in table-1, five

years in table 2 and 3 and of the year 2004-2005 in respect of the other five

tables, increase of reservation from 50% to 58% is sought to be justified on

the ground that there is inadequacy of representation in the service of the

State and in educational institutions. No particular reasoning is assigned why

reservation in respect of SC is brought down to 12% from earlier 16% and

reservation in ST is increased to 32% from earlier 20%. It is also not the case

presented by the State that the data contained in the tables had been

considered. The case presented in the return is that SC population constitute

12% of the population of the State and ST population constitute about

31.76%, which is almost 32%, as per 2001 Census and it would appear that

accordingly, reservation is fixed at 12% for SC and 32% for ST proportionate

to their respective percentage of population. 82. Special provisions contemplated by Article 15(4) , 15(5) or 16(4) must

be within reasonable limits. As noted earlier, it was observed in Balaji (supra)

that a special provision should be less than 50% and how much less than

50% would depend upon the relevant prevailing circumstances in each case.

Any reservation contemplated in Article 16(4) should not exceed 50% was

held to be the rule in Indra Sawhney (supra), which can be breached only on

certain extraordinary situations and on a special case made out. It was also

observed that such power has to be exercised with extreme caution. In Indra

Sawhney (supra), it was categorically held what is required by the State for

providing reservation under Article 16 is not proportionate representation, but

adequate representation, which cannot be read as proportionate

representation. The said principle was reiterated in Dr. Jaishri Laxmanrao

Patil (supra). In Nagaraj (supra) also, ceiling limit of 50% was reiterated. It

was also held that reservation under Article 16(4) should not exceed 50% and

for exceeding reservation beyond 50%, there has to be extraordinary

circumstances as held in Indra Sawhney (supra). It was further held that the

judgment in Indra Sawhney (supra) is fully applicable in reference to Article

15(4). It was further held that Constitution 81 st Amendment Act 2000 by which

clause 4(B) was inserted in Article 16 makes it clear that ceiling of 50% has

now received constitutional recognition. 83. In view of the above, the principles enunciated regarding the ceiling of

50% in Indra Sawhney (supra) are also applicable in respect of Article 15(5) of

the Constitution. 84. On the basis of materials on record, we are of the opinion that no

special case is made out for breaching the reservation ceiling limit of 50% 94 while increasing the reservation to 58%. Inadequacy of representation in

services under the State or inadequacy of representation in educational

institutions is relevant to the extent reservation is sought to be pegged below

50% but if the ceiling is to be crossed, then inadequacy in representation

cannot be the sole determining factor and there has to be exceptional

circumstances. Failure to secure a job or a seat in an educational institution

by a reserve category candidate competing with candidates belonging to

general category cannot be construed as an exceptional circumstance. Tables

4 to 8 seek to project certain disadvantages suffered by SCs, STs and OBCs

compared to socially advanced castes. The tables do not explain in any

manner why reservation in SCs is to be lowered to 12%, reservation in STs to

be increased to 32% and to maintain reservation of 14% in respect of OBCs.

No exceptional circumstances is brought on record and no special case is

made out. There is no explanation also as to why reservation had to be made

to the extent of 76%, 80%, 81%, 66%, 74% in the districts of Surguja,

Surajpur, Balrampur-Ramanujganj, Jashpur, Koria and in Surguja Division,

respectively. 85. In view of the above discussion, Act of 2011 and Section 3 of Act of

2012, and notification dated 29.11.2012 in Rules of 1998 so far as it relates to

reservation as indicated in Schedule II Model Roster for districts of Surguja,

Surajpur, Balrampur-Ramanujganj, Jashpur, Koria and Surguja Division, are

adjudged and declared unconstitutional. 86. In Madras Institute of Development Studies & Another v. K.

Sivasubramaniyan & Others , reported in (2016) 1 SCC 454, the question

that had fallen for consideration was whether a candidate who consciously 95 takes part in the selection process can turn around and question the method

of selection. The decisions rendered in G. Sarana v. University of Lucknow ,

reported in (1976) 3 SCC 585, Manak Lal v. Prem Chand Singhvi, reported

in AIR 1957 SC 425, Om Prakash Shukla v. Akhilesh Kumar Shukla ,

reported in (1986) Supp. SCC 285, Madan Lal v. State of J&K, reported in

(1995) 3 SCC 486, Manish Kumar Sahu v. State of Bihar, reported in ( 2010)

12 SCC 576, Ramesh Chandra Shah v. Anil Joshi , reported in (2013) 11

SCC 309, were taken note of. In the said cases, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

had taken a view that if a candidate takes a calculated chance and appears

at the interview, then, only because the result of the interview is not palatable

to him, he cannot turn round and subsequently contend that the process of

interview was unfair or the Selection Committee was not properly constituted. 87. In some of the writ petitions, where advertisements are under challenge,

it was observed that the selection and appointment would abide by the final

outcome of the writ petitions. In some advertisements, it is indicated that the

selection would be governed by the outcome of the decision pending in

WPC Nos. 591/2012, 593/2012 and 594/2012. The selected candidates are in

service for a long period of time. In the interregnum period, it was submitted

during the course of proceedings, that many recruitments had taken place.

However, none of the parties have brought on record various recruitments that

have taken place. In such circumstances, this Court is of the considered

opinion that setting at naught the selections made in terms of the Act of 2011

or setting aside admissions on the basis of Section 3 of the Act of 2012 would

cause great hardship and prejudice to such candidates, besides resulting in

administrative chaos. Therefore, we are of the opinion that it will be 96 appropriate for this Court to mould the relief inspite of declaring Act of 2011

 and Section 3 of Act of 2012 and the notification dated 29.11.2012 in Rules of

 1998 so far as it relates to reservation as indicated in Schedule II Model

 Roster for districts of Surguja, Surajpur, Balrampur-Ramanujganj, Jashpur,

 Koria and Surguja Division as unconstitutional. Outcome of the writ petition

 means the final verdict of the Court whereby relief may be moulded in a given

 situation for ends of justice in exercise of powers under Article 226 of the

 Constitution of India. In Managing Director, ECIL, Hyderabad (supra), it was

 held that it is now well settled that the Courts can make the law laid down by

 them prospective in operation to prevent unsettlement of the settled position

 to prevent administrative chaos and to meet the ends of justice. 88. Accordingly, we are not inclined to interfere with the admissions taken

 and appointments issued on the basis of the impugned reservation. 89. In the result, WPC Nos. 591/2012, 592/2012, 593/2012, 594/2012,

 652/2012, 653/2012, 936/2012, 1093/2012, 2072/2014 and WPC No.

 4665/2019 are allowed. WPC No. 1067/2012, WPS No. 5578/2012, WPC No.

 1121/2012, WPC No. 1372/2012, WPS No. 5290/2021, WPS No. 7100/2021,

 WPS No. 2091/2018, WPS No. 4049/2018, WPS No. 6083/2018, are partly

 allowed. WPS No. 4240/2014 is disposed of in terms of the directions and

 observations above. 90. No cost.