For the reasons stated in the applications, the delay in filing

 the appeals are condoned. All the misc. applications are

 allowed. 2. Whether a "forwarded as received" WhatsApp message

 circulated on a group regarding quarterly financial results of a

 Company closely matching with the vital statistics , shortly

 after the in-house finalization of the financial results by the

 Company and some time before the publication/disclosure of

 the same by the concerned Company, would amount to an

 unpublished price sensitive information under the provisions

 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of

 Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as

 „PIT Regulations‟) is the question involved in all the present

 eleven appeals. The Adjudicating Officer - who happens to be the same -

 (hereinafter referred to as AO) in all the proceedings before

 him answered the question in the affirmative and imposed a 10 penalty of Rs. 1500000/, on the appellants herein in each of

 the proceedings. Hence the appeals. 3. The details as found in the respective impugned orders

 would show that in the month of November, 2017 certain

 articles were published in newspapers wherein it was alleged

 that the quarterly financial results of several companies were

 in circulation in certain WhatsApp groups before its official

 disclosure by the respective companies. In view of the same,

 respondent Securities and Exchange Board of India

 (hereinafter referred to as „SEBI‟) initiated investigation in the

 same. It carried search and seizure operations of 26 entities of

 a specific market chatter WhatsApp group. About 190 devices

 and records were seized. Many WhatsApp messages were

 retrieved with the help of experts and examined.

 SEBI claims that in respect of around 12 companies earning

 data and financial information got leaked in the WhatsApp

 messages. In the present group, we are dealing with the financial results

 of six companies, namely, Bajaj Auto Ltd., Bata India Ltd.,

 Ambuja Cements Ltd., Asian Paints Ltd., Wipro Ltd. and

 Mindtree Ltd. While appellant Shruti Vora and appellant Neeraj Agarwal

were joint noticees in the matter of financial results of Bajaj

Auto Ltd. (Appeal no.311 and 342 of 2020 respectively), in

the case of Bata India Ltd. appellant Shruti Vora (Appeal

no.310 of 2020) and appellant Aditya Gagar (Appeal no.283

of 2020) were independently investigated. In the case of

financial results of Ambuja Cements Ltd. appellant Shruti

Vora and appellant Neeraj Agarwal were joint noticees out of

which appeal no.313 of 2020 and 341 of 2020 respectively

have arisen. So far as the proceedings regarding financial

results of Asian Paints is concerned appellant Shruti Vora and

appellant Neeraj Agarwal were individual noticees in two

different proceedings out of which appeal no.312 of 2020 and

343 of 2020 respectively have arisen. In the financial results

of Wipro Ltd. appellant Shruti Vora and appellant Parthiv

Dalal were the joint noticees out of which appeal no.308 of

2020 and appeal no.344 of 2020 have arisen. Lastly, appellant

Shruti Vora was dealt with singularly by the respondent SEBI

in the financial results of Mindtree Ltd. out of which appeal

no.309 of 2020 had arisen. The reading of the orders of the Adjudicating Officer/Officers

would show that numerous messages were retrieved from the

devices of the appellants. Quarterly financial results of the

above six companies for different period of time say

December, 2016, March, 2017 were finalized after about 15

days of closure of the quarter by the respective finance team,

tax team, auditors‟ team etc. All those were finalized around

15 days prior to respective disclosure of the same on the

platform of the stock exchange. However, within a day or two

of the finalization of the financial results, one liner WhatsApp

messages in the present group were circulated which closely

matched with the respective later on published financial

results. For instance in appeal no.308 of 2020 the WhatsApp message

was "Wipro revenue 13700 PBIT 2323 PBT 2758". Actual

figure of the financial results published later on in details

disclosed the essence as revenue 13764 crores PBIT 2323.6

(„PBIT - Profit Before Interest and Tax‟) and PBT 2758.9

(„PBT - Profit Before Tax‟). Thus, the deviation between the

figures given in the WhatsApp message and actual result was

0.47% regarding revenue, 0.03% in the case of PBIT and 13 0.03% in the case of PBT. Similar pattern is observed

 regarding the other WhatsApp messages regarding other

 companies for different quarterly period. 4. The impugned orders would show that besides mining the

 data from the devices of the appellants, SEBI had made

 enquiry with the respective companies taking details about the

 process of preparation of the financial results, the personnel

 involved in the same and even about the ex-employees who

 were concerned with similar exercise. In each of the case

 however, no leakage of the information could be detected

 despite thorough investigation. The Adjudicating Officer in the impugned orders reasoned

 that though the appellants were involved as employees or

 otherwise in the securities market, their duties did not involve

 sending any such messages to any of the clients and some of

 the entities to whom the massages were forwarded were not

 even clients. Further the proximity of the circulation of the

 WhatsApp messages with publication of financial results,

 striking resemblances between the figures circulated via

 messages and actual results declared by the respective

 companies, also weighed with the learned Adjudicating 14 Officer in each of the case to come to the conclusion that the

 message was nothing but circulation of unpublished price

 sensitive information in violation of PIT Regulations. 5. Each of the appellant raised similar defenses. They

 submitted that the messages mined by the respondent SEBI

 from the devices admittedly would show that none of the

 appellants were the originator of the messages but they had

 simply forwarded the messages as received from some other

 sources. Due to the lapse of time the appellants were unable

 to show as to from whom they have received the respective

 message. Respondent SEBI was also unable to find the source

 due to the constraints of end to end encryption policy of the

 messenger etc. In the cases where the appellants were dealt

 with jointly by the Respondent SEBI as detailed above, the

 devices revealed the forwarding of messages between the two.

 The appellants further contended that the practice of making

 estimate ahead of the disclosure of the financial result is in

 vogue in the market. In fact there is a big market for the same.

 Concept of „Heard on Street‟ („HoS‟) is a common practice

 within traders, market analyst, institutional investors etc.

 Unsubstantiated information is widely shared. Even reputed 15 journals in USA like Wall Street Journal run twitter handle

exclusively for the circulation of HoS. It is shared by way of

articles and the same is also aired on the news channels or by

the news agency like CNBC, Reuters etc. Bloomberg. Besides

this, Research Analyst forecasts the financial results upon

collation of the publicly available data. Bloomberg, a

reputed platform in this respect regularly publishes the

estimates of various reputed research entities in this regard as

expected results. The data mined by the Respondent SEBI

from each of the devices also showed that besides the

messages in question numerous other messages regarding

financial results were circulated within the group which

widely differed from the results later on published by the

respective Companies. However only the closely matching

messages with the results were cherry picked for launching the

present proceedings. In the present cases the expected results

for Wipro etc were published on the platform of Bloomberg

and in the case of Wipro there is exact similarity between the

figures found in the WhatsApp messages and one of the

estimate published on the platform of Bloomberg. Even the

respective companies issue forward guidance regarding their 16 financial results ahead of the disclosure of the actual financial

results. It was submitted that in the case of Wipro the

guidance issued by the company exactly matched with the

estimate given in the WhatsApp message which later on

similarly matched with minor deviation with the disclosed

financial statement. On these defenses the appellants

submitted that the proceedings be dropped.

The learned Adjudicating Officer however did not agree with

the submissions. He concluded that each of the appellants had

violated the provisions of section 12 of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and regulation 3(1) of the

PIT Regulations, 2015 which run as under: 6. In the result each of the appellant was penalized with an

 amount of Rs.15 lakhs for each of the violation. Hence the

 present appeals. 7. Heard Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, Advocate Mr. Pesi

 Mody, Senior Advocate, Mr. Kunal Katariya, Mr. Sahebrao

 Wamanrao Buktare, Mr. Deepak Dhane and Mr. Ramakant

 Kini, Advocates and Mr. Ravi Vijay Ramaiya, Chartered

 Accountant for the Appellants and Mr. Zal Andhyarujina,

 Senior Advocate with Mr. Suraj Choudhary, Ms. Nidhi Singh,

 Ms. Maithalli Parikh, Ms. Kinjal Bhatt and Mr. Hersh

 Choudhary, Advocates for the Respondent. 8. The definition of unpublished price sensitive information

 ("UPSI") in the PIT Regulations, 2015 is as under:- NOTE: It is intended that information relating to a
 company or securities, that is not generally available
 would be unpublished price sensitive information
 if it is likely to materially affect the price upon
 coming into the public domain. The types of matters
 that would ordinarily give rise to unpublished price
 sensitive information have been listed above to give
 illustrative guidance of unpublished price sensitive
 information. 9. The definition of "insider" in the PIT Regulations, 2015 is

 as under:- NOTE: Since "generally available information" is
 defined, it is intended that anyone in possession of
 or having access to unpublished price sensitive
 information should be considered an "insider"
 regardless of how one came in possession of or had
 access to such information. Various circumstances
 are provided for such a person to demonstrate 19 that he has not indulged in insider trading.
 Therefore, this definition is intended to bring
 within its reach any person who is in receipt of
 or has access to unpublished price sensitive
 information. The onus of showing that a
 certain person was in possession of or had
 access to unpublished price sensitive
 information at the time of trading would,
 therefore, be on the person leveling the charge
 after which the person who has traded when in
 possession of or having access to unpublished price
 sensitive information may demonstrate that he was
 not in such possession or that he has not traded or
 he could not access or that his trading when in
 possession of such information was squarely
 covered by the exonerating circumstances. 10. The Adjudicating Officer reasoned that as the message

 was an information relating to financial result and as it closely

 matched with the financial results published later on, the

 message was an unpublished price sensitive information. The

 AO explained that the source of the message could not be

 traced due to severe technological constraints due to the end to

 end encryption of the WhatsApp messages. Further no leakage

 of information could be found from the concerned teams

 related to the respective Companies. However, according to

 the AO absence of proof of any leakage and the source of the

 information would not stand to qualify the information as not

 the unpublished price sensitive information. The AO was 20 wonderstruck by the similarity in the figures, by the fact that

these messages were received by the appellants after the

finalization of the financial results by the respective

companies and that those were forwarded by the appellants to

the person in the group out of them some of which were not

the entities to whom in due course of official work of the

concerned appellant were required to send the said messages.

It was further reasoned that the figures given in the WhatsApp

messages were not even stated in any approximate range of

values but were in definite amount. As regards the proximity

of the messages, the AO declared that "it is reasonably

possible" that the information was already in existence when

the messages came to the appellant. As regarding their

defences that gossips, experts‟ estimates, company‟s guidance

and Bloomberg etc. also regularly circulate such figures and

even the company‟s guidance estimation is exactly the same

as compared to the messages, the AO refused to give any

weight to the same. He has reasoned that in some of the cases

like Bloomberg there was a slight difference in the figure than

found in the messages, that it about 0.5%. As regards the

guidance, it was reasoned that those reports were much earlier 21 than the finalization of the financial results. Further some of

 the estimates enumerated in Bloomberg of various research

 agencies were widely differing than the actual figures was also

 a cause for rejecting the reasons of the appellants. 11. Upon hearing both the sides, in our view the order cannot

 be sustained and all the appeals deserves to be allowed for the

 following reasons. 12. It is an admitted fact that despite great efforts by the

 respondent SEBI to find out the source of information or to

 find out leakage, if any, of the information from the side of

 financial team, legal team or the audit team of the respective

 companies, no information could be recovered. The impugned

 order shows that time and again the learned AO has expressed

 the inability in this regard. 13. It is to be noted that admittedly the respondent SEBI has

 mined hundreds of similar messages from the devices of the

 appellants. Out of those numerous messages only in the

 present six cases the messages matched with the exact figure

 of the financial results. It is not the case of the respondent

 SEBI that the present impugned messages were coded

 differently. On the other hand, it would show that within 22 minutes of receipt of the messages by the respective appellant

 she/he forwarded it to several persons including one of the

 group members who happens to be a journalist of Reuters. 14. As regards the estimates of the broker which subsequently

 matched with the published result, the AO reasoned that it is

 not the appellant‟s claim that the impugned message had

 arisen from the market research like that of those brokerage

 houses. However, the learned AO failed to appreciate that the

 appellants were pleading that the WhatsApp messages might

 have been originated from the brokerage houses, or from the

 estimates found on the platform of Bloomberg which were

 floated and were in the public domain. The learned AO also

 failed to take into consideration that there were numerous

 other messages of similar nature received and forwarded by

 the appellant which did not at all match with the published

 financial results. Appellant Shruti Vora in the case of Wipro

 has specifically pointed out that along with the said message

 similar massage regarding Axis Bank had also reached her

 which she had also forwarded. The published results, in that

 case however, were widely different. The learned AO did not

 give any weightage to the same. 15. The above definitions of the „unpublished price sensitive

 information‟ and „insider‟ would show that a generally

 available information would not be an unpublished price

 sensitive information. 16. The information can be branded as an unpublished price

 sensitive information only when the person getting the

 information had a knowledge that it was unpublished price

 sensitive information. Though knowledge is a state of mind of

 a person, the same can be proved on preponderance of

 probabilities on attendant circumstances. In the present case,

 there are no attendant circumstances at all except the

 possibilities as enumerated by the learned AO. Proximity of

 time, similarity between the information were the only two

 factors that weighed with the learned AO to brand the

 information as unpublished price sensitive information. In the

 case of Samir Arora vs. SEBI (2004) SCC Online SAT 90

 this Tribunal had rejected the arguments of SEBI that there is

 no need for linkage between the potential source of the

 unpublished price sensitive information and the person

 allegedly in possession of the alleged unpublished price

 sensitive information. 17. For the above reasons therefore in our view the reasoning

 of the learned AO cannot be upheld. 18. The learned counsel for the appellant argued that merely

 passing of the information without any trading in the scrips of

 the concerned company, would not amount to violation of PIT

 Regulations. They took us through the notes below the

 relevant regulations which would indicate that trading having

 possession of unpublished price sensitive information is

 prohibited. However, since the Regulation 3 clearly prohibits

 passing of unpublished price sensitive information otherwise

 than for valid reasons . However, in the facts of the case, in

 our view the respondents failed to prove any preponderance of

 probabilities that the impugned messages were unpublished

 price sensitive information, that the appellants knew that it

 was unpublished price sensitive information and with the said

 knowledge they or any of them had passed the said

 information to other parties. In view of the same, the

 following order. All the appeals are hereby allowed without any order as to

 costs. The impugned orders in all the appeals are hereby set

 aside. 19. The present matter was heard through video conference

 due to Covid-19 pandemic. At this stage it is not possible to

 sign a copy of this order nor a certified copy of this order

 could be issued by the registry. In these circumstances, this

 order will be digitally signed by the Private Secretary on

 behalf of the bench and all concerned parties are directed to

 act on the digitally signed copy of this order. Parties will act

 on production of a digitally signed copy sent by fax and/or

 email. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Dr. C.K.G Nair
 Member

 Justice M.T. Joshi
 Judicial Member

 RAJALA Digitally
 by
 signed

22.3.2021 KSHMI NAIR
 RAJALAKSHMI H

 Date: 2021.03.24
RHN H NAIR 10:38:32 +05'30'