The recently tabled private member’s deepfake regulation bill appears to have a narrower definition of deepfake/digital content forgery than the definition of synthetically generated information within the IT Ministry’s draft synthetic media rules . The definition of deepfakes focuses on representations of people — their speech, image, or conduct — and adds an element of intent, with it requiring “intent to convincingly and deceptively depict” a subject or a person in false circumstances. Similarly, the definition of digital content forgery also focuses on the intent to deceive.

Meanwhile, the definition of synthetically-generated information covers any artificially or algorithmically generated content that appears authentic. This definition had seen a lot of pushback, with many arguing that it can include everything from augmented reality and virtual reality, computer aided drawings and other positive use cases of algorithmic/artificial intelligence (AI) in content creation. During MediaNama’s discussion about the draft rules, stakeholders suggested that the government should limit the applicability of the rules to “synthetic content with the intent to mislead”, given that it wants to curb misleading/deceptive content with the draft rules.

While the private member’s bill appears to address these concerns of overbroad definitions, it is important to note that such bills rarely ever end up becoming laws. As of the 17th Lok Sabha — which functioned between June 2019 and February 2024 — various Governments over the years have only passed 14 private members bills. Notably, both Houses of Parliament have not passed such a bill since 1970.

We missed this earlier: A private member’s deepfake regulation bill was introduced in the Parliament during the Winter Session on December 5. Introduced by Shiv Sena MP Shrinath Shinde, this bill requires creators to seek consent before creating someone’s deepfake.

This consent must be voluntary and wilful, be it in writing or oral, and only an adult person of a sound mind and body can give such consent. The consenting party must not be coerced, defrauded or put under any duress/fear during the consent seeking process.

Deepfakes will be considered a criminal offence as per this bill if they are:

Notably, the bill defines deepfakes as —

“an electronic image or photograph, audio recording, video recording, motion picture film, multimedia, or any technological representation of speech or conduct substantially derivative thereof of an AI -generated content where it appears to authentically depict any speech, image or conduct of a person who did not undertake in such a speech or conduct or with the intent to convincingly and deceptively depict subjects, or issues, or represent individuals engaging in actions, making statements, or being in circumstances that did not occur or exist in reality.”

The regulation also covers digital content forgery, which includes the use of technologies such as AI or machine learning (ML) for creating or altering audio, visual or textual content for the purpose of deception.

While dating back to 2024, this bill was tabled in the Parliament after the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) released a draft amendment to the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (IT Rules, 2021) to bring synthetic media (including deepfakes) within the scope of regulation.

To explain, the amendment seeks to implement labelling and metadata embedding requirements for synthetic content, and requires AI developers to include a minimum 10% visual or initial audio duration coverage labels for synthetic content.

The draft amendment saw pushback from stakeholders across the ecosystem,with some arguing that mandatory labels will merely push AI users to generate synthetic content using tools from other countries instead of solving the deepfake problem. Others highlighted the impact labels would have on the advertising industry, affecting the impression of the ad on the end user.

The draft bill seeks to establish a deepfake task force which will assist the government in combating the national security implications of deepfakes, evaluate the prevalence of deepfakes affecting Indian citizens, businesses, and government functioning, and conduct research into deepfake detection technologies.

The task force will also evaluate the risks associated with encompassing privacy concerns linked to the use of deepfakes, evaluate their influence on civic participation, including the electorate, and the feasibility of incorporating blockchain technology to monitor and authenticate content that people are circulating in the public domain.

Furthermore, the task force must facilitate cooperation between the government, the private sector, research and academia regarding deepfakes and other image manipulation methods. Importantly, the government must establish this task force within six months of the bill becoming an act.

Within one year of the bill going into effect, the Central Government, in coordination with state governments, must start a public education campaign to raise awareness about synthetic content and synthetically modified content. The campaign will:

The bill envisages a “Combating Deepfakes or Other Advanced Image Manipulation Methods” fund, to which the Centre as well as all concerned state governments will contribute. This fund will provide support to private sector companies to combat the menace of deepfakes.

Besides this fund, the bill also directs the Central Government to allocate funds to state governments in order to carry out the purposes set out under the bill.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event