In response to a Right to Information (RTI) request, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) refused to share the whitelist of permitted digital lending apps (DLA) sent to Google Play Store and Apple App Store citing confidentiality, among other reasons.

Earlier in February, the Ministry of Finance told the parliament that a whitelist of permitted digital lending apps has been given by the RBI to the IT Ministry, which in turn, has sent this list to app stores. With regard to this, we filed an RTI request with the RBI, asking it for a copy of the whitelist. The central bank responded by saying:

“The information sought is a confidential correspondence from the Reserve Bank to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, public disclosure of which may prejudicially affect the economic interests of the State and accordingly is exempted from disclosure under section 8(1)(a) of the RTI Act. Further, the information sought is exempted from disclosure under Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act as the information is collated by RBI from the Regulated Entities in pursuant to an action point emanating from a meeting convened by Union Finance Minister on September 08, 2022, and the information is provided in the fiduciary capacity and not under any statutory mandate.”

MediaNama’s Take: What is confidential here? We have no idea why RBI is considering this information “confidential” and something that will “affect the economic interests of the State.” How will a whitelist of permitted lending apps affect the economic interests of the country? What’s RBI’s thinking here? Or is the central bank merely using these grounds to avoid replying to RTI requests? Even the “fiduciary capacity” reason doesn’t stand because Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act states that if the “larger public interest warrants the disclosure of such information” then the exemption doesn’t apply. Here, the public interest aspect is clear: a publicly available whitelist will help consumers cross-check the list for allowed digital lending apps, rather than fall prey to the numerous predatory lending apps that exist on the app stores, which target vulnerable Indian borrowers, charging them exorbitant interest rates, and resorting to extortion and blackmail tactics to collect repayments. MediaNama has filed an appeal to the RTI response and hopes to get a positive response.

Are app stores required to act on the whitelist? There is no law that requires Google Play Store and Apple App Store to ensure that only lending apps on the whitelist are allowed on their platforms. To legally require app stores to take down any apps, the Indian government must issue orders under Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000, as it did in February when it banned the 138 betting apps and 94 loan lending apps. The whitelist probably serves more as a guide to app stores.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event