> 

 

Title : Passing of the Information Technology (Amendment) Bill, 2006. THE MINISTER OF COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (SHRI A. RAJA): Sir, I beg to move** : Punishment for cyber terrorism. (b) “capture”, with respect to an image, means to videotape, photograph, film or record by any means; (c) “private area” means the naked or undergarment clad genitals, pubic area, buttocks or female breast; (d) “publishes” means reproduction in the printed or electronic form and making it available for public; (e) “under circumstances violating privacy” means circumstances in which a person can have a reasonable expectation that-- (i)  he or she could disrobe in privacy, without being concerned that an image of his private area was being captured; or (ii) any part of his or her private area would not be visible to the public, regardless of whether that person is in a public or private place. 66F. (1)   Whoever,- (A) with intent to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India or to strike terror in the people or any section of the people by – (i)     denying or cause the denial of access to any person authorised to access computer resource; or (ii) attempting to penetrate or access a computer resource without authorisation or exceeding authorised access; or (iii) introducing or causing to introduce any computer contaminant; and by means of such conduct causes or is likely to cause death or injuries to   persons or damage to or destruction of property or disrupts or knowing that it is likely  to cause damage or disruption of supplies or services essential to the life of the community or adversely affect the critical information infrastructure specified under section 70 , or 

  

  

  

  

  

  

(B) knowingly or intentionally penetrates or accesses a computer resource without authorisation or exceeding authorised access, and by means of such conduct obtains access to information, data or computer database that is restricted for reasons of  the security of the State or foreign relations; or any restricted information, data or computer database, with reasons to believe that such information, data or computer database so obtained may be used to cause or likely to cause injury to the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence, or to the advantage of any foreign nation, group of individuals or otherwise, 

  

 commits the offence of cyber terrorism. (2) Whoever commits or conspires to commit cyber terrorism shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to imprisonment for life’.  (29) 

  

  

  

Page 9, 

 line 11,  for “ two years” substitute “three years” (30) 

  

  

  

Page 9, 

  

Punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act, etc. in electronic form. for lines 22 to 28, substitute - ‘67 B.  Whoever,- (a)  publishes or transmits or causes to be published or transmitted material in any electronic form which depicts children engaged in sexually explicit act or conduct; or (b)  creates text or digital images, collects, seeks, browses, downloads, advertises, promotes, exchanges or distributes material in any electronic form depicting children in obscene or indecent or sexually explicit manner; or (c)  cultivates, entices or induces children to online relationship with one or more children for and on sexually explicit act or in a manner that may offend a reasonable adult on the computer resource; or (d)   facilitates abusing children online; or 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Preservation and retention of information by intermediaries (e) records in any electronic form own abuse or that of others pertaining to sexually explicit act with children, 

  

shall be punished on first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees and in the event of second or subsequent conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and also with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees: Explanation.-  For the purposes of this section “children” means a person who has not completed the age of 18 years. 67 C  (1) Intermediary shall preserve and retain such information as may be specified for such duration and in such manner and format as the Central Government may prescribe. (2) Any intermediary who intentionally or knowingly contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and also be liable to fine.’.        (31) 

(Shri A. Raja) 

  

  

  

MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The question is: Power to issue directions for blocking for public access of any information through any computer resource 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Power to authorize to monitor and collect traffic data or information through any computer resource for 

cyber security 

  

  

69A. (1)  Where the Central Government or any of its officer specially authorised by it in this behalf is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to above, it may subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), for reasons to be recorded in writing, by order, direct any agency of the Government or intermediary to block for access by the public or cause to be blocked for access by the public any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in any computer resource. (2)   The procedure and safeguards subject to which such blocking for access by the public may be carried out, shall be such as may be prescribed. (3) The intermediary who fails to comply with the direction issued under sub-section (1) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and also be liable to fine. 69B. (1)  The Central Government may, to enhance cyber security and for identification, analysis and prevention of intrusion or spread of computer contaminant in the country, by notification in the Official Gazette, authorise any agency of the Government to monitor and collect traffic data or information generated, transmitted, received or stored in any computer resource. (2) The intermediary or any person in-charge of the computer resource shall, when called upon by the agency which has been authorised under sub-section (1), provide technical assistance and extend all facilities to such agency to enable online access or to secure and provide online access to the computer resource generating, transmitting, receiving or storing such traffic data or information. (3) The procedure and safeguards for monitoring and collecting traffic data or information, shall be such as may be prescribed. (4) Any intermediary who intentionally or knowingly contravenes the provisions of sub-section (2) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation.- For the purposes of this section,- (i) "computer contaminant" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 43 ; (ii) “traffic data” means any data identifying or purporting to identify any person, computer system or computer network or location to or from which the communication is or may be transmitted and includes communications origin, destination, route, time, date, size, duration or type of underlying service and any other information.’.        (33) 

  

  

. Page 10, 

omit lines 1 to 5.          (34) 

  

(Shri A. Raja) 

  

  

  

MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The question is: 70B. (1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint an agency of the Government to be called the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team. (2)  The Central Government shall provide the agency referred to in sub-section (1) with a Director General and such other officers and employees as may be prescribed. (3)  The salary and allowances and terms and conditions of the Director General and other officers and employees shall be such as may be prescribed. (4) The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team shall serve as the national agency for performing the following functions in the area of cyber security,- (a) collection, analysis and dissemination of information on cyber incidents; (b)  forecast and alerts of cyber security incidents; (c) emergency measures for handling cyber security incidents; (d) coordination of cyber incidents response activities; (e)  issue guidelines, advisories, vulnerability notes and whitepapers relating to information security practices, procedures, prevention, response and reporting of cyber   incidents; (f)   such other functions relating to cyber security as may be prescribed. (5)  The manner of performing functions and duties of the agency referred to in sub-section (1) shall be such as may be prescribed. (6) For carrying out the provisions of sub-section (4), the agency referred to in sub-section (1) may call for information and give direction to the service providers, intermediaries, data centres, body corporate and any other person. (7) Any service provider, intermediaries, data centres, body corporate or person who fails to provide the information called for or comply with the direction under sub-section (6), shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees or with both. (8)      No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this section, except on a complaint made by an officer authorised in this behalf by the agency referred to in sub-section(1).”’.       (36) 

  

(Shri A. Raja)[r8]  

  

  

  

  

MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The question is: Offences with        77B. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Criminal Procedure 

three years           Code, 1973, the offence punishable with imprisonment of three years 

imprisonment to be    and above shall be cognizable and the offence punishable 

bailable                                  with    imprisonment of three years shall be bailable.”.     (39) 

                               Page 11, omit lines 13 to 23.                                    (40)                                                                                                                                                     (Shri A. Raja) 

MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The question is: