G. S. Singhvi, J. 3 3 1. Leave granted. 2. The importance of teachers and their training has been 

 highlighted time and again by eminent educationists and 

 leaders of society. The Courts have also laid considerable 

 emphasis on the dire need of having qualified teachers in 

 schools and colleges. 2.1 In Ahmedabad St. Xavier's College Society v. State of Gujarat (1974) 1 SCC 717, A.N. Ray, C.J., observed: 2.2 In Andhra Kesari Education Society v. Director of School 

Education (1989) 1 SCC 392, this Court observed: 2.3 In State of Maharashtra v. Vikas Sahebrao Roundale (1992) 4 

SCC 435, the Court said: 2.4 In St. Johns' Teachers Training Institute (for Women), 

Madurai v. State of Tamil Nadu (1993) 3 SCC 595, the Court 

observed: method has to be replaced by a more vibrant 

 system with improved methods of teaching, to 

 achieve qualitative excellence in teacher-

 education." 2.5 In N.M. Nageshwaramma v. State of Andhra Pradesh 1986 

(Supp.) SCC 166, the Court observed: 3. We have prefaced disposal of these appeals, which are directed 

 against interlocutory order dated 17.12.2008 and final order 

 dated 13.03.2009 passed by the Division Bench of the Madhya 

 Pradesh High Court in Writ Petition No. 6146 of 2008 and 

 connected matters by highlighting the need for well-equipped 

 and trained teachers because in the last three decades private 

 institutions engaged in conducting teacher training courses / 

 programmes have indulged in brazen and bizarre exploitation of 

 the aspirants for admission to teacher training courses and 

 ranked commercialisation and the regulatory bodies constituted 

 under the laws enacted by Parliament and State Legislatures 

 have failed to stem the rot. The cases filed by these institutions, 

 many of whom have not been granted recognition due to non-

 fulfilment of the conditions specified in the National Council for Teacher Education Act, 1993 (for short, `the 1993 Act') and the 

 Regulations framed thereunder and by the students who have 

 taken admission in such institutions with the hope that at the 


 8 8

 end of the day they will be able to get favourable order by 

 invoking sympathy of the Court, have choked the dockets of 

 various High Courts and even this Court. The enormity of 

 litigation in this field gives an impression that implementation 

 of the provisions contained in the 1993 Act and the Regulations 

 framed thereunder has been acutely deficient and the objects 

 sought to be achieved by enacting the special legislation, 

 namely, planned and coordinated development of the teacher 

 education system throughout the country, the regulation and 

 proper maintenance of norms and standards in the teacher 

 education system have not been fulfilled so far. 4. Before adverting to the appellants' grievance against the orders 

 passed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Writ Petition No. 

 6146 of 2008 Subhash Rahangdale and connected cases, we 

 consider it necessary to notice the scheme of the 1993 Act and 

 the Regulations framed thereunder. THE SCHEME OF THE 1993 ACT AND THE REGULATIONS

5.1 With a view to achieve the object of planned and coordinated 

 development for the teacher education system throughout 

 the country and for regulation and proper maintenance of 


 9 9

norms and standards in the teacher education system and 

for matters connected therewith, Parliament enacted the 

1993 Act. The 1993 Act provides for the establishment of a 

Council to be called the National Council for Teacher 

Education (for short "the NCTE") with multifarious functions, 

powers and duties. Section 2(c) of the Act defines the term 

"council" to mean a council established under sub-section (1) 

of Section 3 . Section 2(i) defines the term "recognised 

institution" to mean an institution recognised under Section 14. Section 2(j) defines the term "Regional Committee" to 

mean a committee established under Section 20 . Section 3 provides for establishment of the Council which comprises of 

a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson, a Member-Secretary, 

various functionaries of the Government, thirteen persons 

possessing experience and knowledge in the field of 

education or teaching, nine members representing the States 

and the Union Territories administration, three members of 

Parliament, three members to be appointed from amongst 

teachers of primary and secondary education and teachers of 

recognised institutions. Section 12 of the Act enumerates 

functions of the Council. Section 14 provides for recognition 


 10 1

of institutions offering course or training in teacher 

education. Section 15 lays down the procedure for obtaining 

permission by an existing institution for starting a new 

course or training. Section 16 contains a non obstante clause 

and lays down that an examining body shall not grant 

affiliation to any institution or hold examination for a course 

or training conducted by a recognised institution unless it 

has obtained recognition from the Regional Committee 

concerned under Section 14 or permission for starting a new 

course or training under Section 15 . The mechanism for 

dealing with the cases involving violation of the provisions of 

the Act or the Rules, Regulations, Orders made or issued 

thereunder or the conditions of recognition by a recognised 

institution finds place in Section 17 . By an amendment made 

in July 2006, Section 17-A was added to the Act. It lays down 

that no institution shall admit any student to a course or 

training in teacher education unless it has obtained 

recognition under Section 14 or permission under Section 15. Section 31(1) empowers the Central Government to make 

rules for carrying out the provisions of the Act. Section 31(2) specifies the matters in respect of which the Central 


 11 1

 Government can make rules. Under Section 32(1) the Council 

 can make regulations for implementation of the provisions of 

 the Act subject to the rider that the regulations shall not be 

 inconsistent with the provisions of the Act and the Rules 

 made thereunder. Section 32(2) specifies the matters on 

 which the Council can frame regulations. In terms of Section 

 33 , the Rules framed under Section 31 and the Regulations 

 framed under Section 32 are required to be laid before 

 Parliament. By virtue of Section 34(1) , the Central 

 Government has been clothed with the power to issue an 

 order to remove any difficulty arising in the implementation 

 of the provisions of the Act. 5.2 The relevant portions of Sections 12 , 14 to 16 , 17 , 17-A , 18 , 20 , 29 and 32 of the Act which have bearing on the decision of 

these appeals are reproduced below: or (b) if it is of the opinion that such institution does 

not fulfil the requirements laid down in sub-clause (a), pass an order refusing recognition to such 

institution for reasons to be recorded in writing: clause (b), the Regional Committee shall provide a 

reasonable opportunity to the concerned 

institution for making a written representation. (4) * * *

(5) Every institution, in respect of which 

recognition has been refused shall discontinue the 

course or training in teacher education from the 

end of the academic session next following the 

date of receipt of the order refusing recognition 

passed under clause (b) of sub-section (3).

(6) Every examining body shall, on receipt of the 

order under sub-section (4)-- (a) grant affiliation to the institution, where 

recognition has been granted; or (b) cancel the affiliation of the institution, where 

recognition has been refused. 15. Permission for a new course or training by 

recognised institution. -- (1) Where any 

recognised institution intends to start any new 

course or training in teacher education, it may 

make an application to seek permission therefor to 

the Regional Committee concerned in such form 

and in such manner as may be determined by 

regulations. (2) The fees to be paid along with the application 

under sub-section (1) shall be such as may be 

prescribed. (3) On receipt of an application from an institution 

under sub-section (1), and after obtaining from the 

recognised institution such other particulars as 

may be considered necessary, the Regional 

Committee shall-- (a) if it is satisfied that such recognised institution 

has adequate financial resources, accommodation, 


 15 1

library, qualified staff, laboratory, and that it fulfils 

such other conditions required for proper conduct 

of the new course or training in teacher education, 

as may be determined by regulations, pass an 

order granting permission, subject to such 

conditions as may be determined by regulation; or (b) if it is of the opinion that such institution does 

not fulfil the requirements laid down in sub-clause (a), pass an order refusing permission to such 

institution, for reasons to be recorded in writing: Notwithstanding anything contained in any other 

law for the time being in force, no examining body 

shall, on or after the appointed day-- (a) grant affiliation, whether provisional or 

otherwise, to any institution; or (b) hold examination, whether provisional or 

otherwise, for a course or training conducted by a 

recognised institution,

unless the institution concerned has obtained 

recognition from the Regional Committee 

concerned, under Section 14 or permission for a 

course or training under Section 15 . * * *

17 - Contravention of provisions of the Act and 

consequences thereof


 16 1

(1) Where the Regional Committee is, on its own 

motion or on any representation received from any 

person, satisfied that a recognised institution has 

contravened any of the provisions of this Act, or 

the rules, regulations, orders made or issued 

thereunder, or any condition subject to which 

recognition under sub-section (3) of section 14 or 

permission under sub-section (3) of section 15 was 

granted, it may withdraw recognition of such 

recognised institution, for reasons to be recorded 

in writing; Provided that no such order against the recognised 

institution shall be passed unless a reasonable 

opportunity of making representation against the 

proposed order has been given to such recognised 

institution: 17 1

the academic session next following the date of 

communication of the said order. (4) If an institution offers any course or training in 

teacher education after the coming into force of the 

order withdrawing recognition under sub-section 

(1), or where an institution offering a course or 

training in teacher education immediately before 

the appointed day fails or neglects to obtain 

recognition or permission under this Act, the 

qualification in teacher education obtained 

pursuant to such course or training or after 

undertaking a course or training in such 

institution, shall not be treated as a valid 

qualification for purposes of employment under 

the Central Government, any State Government or 

University, or in any school, college or other 

educational body aided by the Central Government 

or any State Government. 17-A. No admission without recognition.--No 

institution shall admit any student to a course or 

training in teacher education, unless the 

institution concerned has obtained recognition 

under Section 14 or permission under Section 15, 

as the case may be. 18 - Appeals

(1) Any person aggrieved by an order made under section 14 or section 15 or section 17 of the Act 

may prefer an appeal to the Council within such 

period as may be prescribed. (2) No appeal shall be admitted if it is preferred 

after the expiry of the period prescribed therefore: (4) The procedure for disposing of an appeal shall 

be such as may be prescribed: 20 - Regional Committees

(1) The Council shall, by notification in the Official 

Gazette, establish the following Regional 

Committees, namely:-- 29 - Directions by the Central Government

(1) The Council shall, in the discharge of its 

functions and duties under this Act be bound by 

such directions on questions of policy as the 

Central Government may give in writing to it from 

time to time. (2) The decision of the Central Government as to 

whether a question is one of policy or not shall be 

final. 32 - Power to make regulations

(1) The Council may, by notification in the Official 

Gazette, make regulations not inconsistent with 

the provisions of this Act and the rules made 

thereunder, generally to carry out the provisions of 

this Act. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the 

generality of the foregoing power, such regulations 

may provide for all or any of the following matters, 

namely:- 20 2 (i) the minimum qualifications for a person to be 

employed as a teacher under clause (d) of section 

12 ; (ii) the specified category of courses or training in 

teacher education under clause(e) of section 12 ; (iii) starting of new courses or training in 

recognised institutions under clause (f) of section 

12 ; (iv) standards in respect of examinations leading to 

teacher education qualifications referred to in 

clause (g) of section 12 ; (v) the tuition fees and other fees chargeable by 

institutions under clause (h) of section 12 ; (vi) the schemes for various levels of teachers 

education, and identification of institutions for 

offering teacher development programmes under 

clause (l) of section 12 ; (e) the form and the manner in which an 

application for recognition is to be submitted 

under sub-section (1) of section 14 ; (f) conditions required for the proper functioning of 

the institution and conditions for granting 

recognition under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 14 ; (g) the form and the manner in which an 

application for permission is to be made under 

sub-section (1) of section 15 ; (h) conditions required for the proper conduct of a 

new course or training and conditions for granting 

permission under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 15 ; (i) the functions which may be assigned by the 

Council to the Executive Committee under sub-

section (1) of section 19 ; 21 2 (j) the procedure and the quorum necessary for 

 transaction of business at the meetings of the 

 Executive Committee under sub-section (5) of section 19 ; (k) the manner in which and the purposes for 

 which the Executive Committee may co-opt 

 persons under sub-section (6) of section 19 ; (l) the number of persons under clause (c) of sub-

 section (3) of section 20 ; (m) the term of office and allowances payable to 

 members under sub-section (5) of section 20 ; (n) additional functions to be performed by the 

 Regional Committee under sub-section (6) of section 20 ; (o) the functions of the procedure to be followed by 

 the territorial jurisdiction of, and the manner, of 

 filling casual vacancies among members of a 

 Regional Committee under sub-section (7) of section 20 ; (p) any other matter in respect of which provision 

 is to be, or may be, made by regulations." 6. In exercise of the power vested in it under Section 32 , the 

 National Council for Teacher Education (for short, `the NCTE') 

 has, from time to time, framed the regulations. Initially, the 

 NCTE framed "the National Council for Teacher Education 

 (Application for Recognition, the Manner for Submission, 

 Determination of Conditions for Recognition of Institutions and 

 Permissions to Start New Course or Training) Regulations, 

 1995". In 2002, the NCTE framed "the National Council for 


 22 2

Teacher Education (Form of Application for Recognition, the 

Time-Limit of Submission of Application, Determination of 

Norms and Standards for Recognition of Teacher Education 

Programmes and Permission to Start New Course or Training) 

Regulations, 2002". Between 2003 and 2005, 6 amendments 

were made in the 2002 Regulations, which were finally repealed 

with the enactment of "the National Council for Teacher 

Education (Recognition Norms and Procedure) Regulations, 

2005 (for short, `the 2005 Regulations'). The relevant provisions 

of the 2005 Regulations are reproduced below: 1,000 by way of a demand draft of a Nationalised 

 Bank drawn in favour of the Member Secretary, 


 23 2

NCTE payable at the city where the office of the 

Regional Committee is located. (3) An application can be submitted conventionally 

or electronically on-line. In the latter case, the 

requisite documents in triplicate along with the 

processing fee shall be submitted separately to the 

office of the Regional Committee concerned. Those 

who apply on-line shall have the benefit of not to 

pay for the form. 7. Processing of applications

(1) Applications which are complete in all respects 

shall be processed by the office of the Regional 

Committee concerned within 30 days of receipt of 

the such applications. (2) The applications shall be processed as under: - (4) Though normally the applicant institutions will 

ensure submission of applications complete in all 

respects, in order to cover the inadvertent 

omission of deficiencies in documents, the office of 

the Regional Committee shall point out the 

deficiencies within 30 days of receipt of the 

applications, which the applicants shall remove 

within 90 days. The date of receipt of the 

application after completion of deficiencies shall be 

treated as the date of receipt of the application 

complete in all respects within the meaning of Regulation 7(1) . (5) Ordinarily, the inspection of infrastructure, 

equipment, instructional facilities, etc., of an 

institution shall be conducted within 30 days of 

completion of processing of its application by the 

office of the Regional Committee with a view to 

assessing the level of preparedness of the 

institution to commence the course. Such 

inspection shall be in the chronological order of 

the date of receipt of the completed application in 

the office of the Regional Committee concerned. 

Among the applications received on the same day, 

alphabetical order shall be followed.

(6) All the applicant institutions are expected to 

launch their own website simultaneously with the 

submission of their applications covering, inter 

alia, the details of the institutions, its location, 

name of the course applied for with intake, 

availability of physical infrastructure (land, 

building, office, classrooms, and other 


 25 2

facilities/amenities), instructional facilities 

(laboratories, library, etc.) and the particulars of 

their proposed teaching and non-teaching staff, 

etc. with photographs for information of all 

concerned. (7) At the time of visit of the team of experts to an 

institution, the institution concerned shall arrange 

for the inspection to be videographed in a manner 

that all important facilities are videographed along 

with interaction with the management and the 

staff (if available). The visiting teams shall finalize 

and courier their reports alongwith the video tapes 

on the same day. (8) The application and the report alongwith the 

video tapes of the Visiting Team shall be placed 

before the Regional Committee concerned for 

consideration of grant of recognition or permission 

to an institution in its next meeting. (9) The Regional Committee shall decide grant of 

recognition or permission to an institution only 

after satisfying itself that the institution fulfills all 

the conditions prescribed by the NCTE under the NCTE Act , Rules or Regulations, including, inter 

alia, the norms and standards laid down for the 

relevant teacher education programme/course.

(10) In the matter of grant of recognition, the 

Regional Committees shall strictly act within the 

ambit of the National Council for Teacher 

Education, Act, 1993 , the National Council for 

Teacher Education Rules, 1997 as amended from 

time to time and the regulations including the 

norms and standards for various teacher 

education programmes and shall not make any 

relaxation thereto. The Regional Directors shall be 

responsible for ensuring that the decisions of the 

Regional Committees are not in contravention of 

the NCTE Act , NCTE Rules and regulations 

including the norms and standards. 26 2

(11) The institution concerned shall be informed of 

the decision for grant of recognition or permission 

subject to appointment of qualified faculty 

members before the commencement of the 

academic session. (12) The institution, concerned, after appointing 

the requisite faculty/staff, shall put the 

information on its official website and also formally 

inform the Regional Committee concerned. The 

Regional Committee concerned shall then issue a 

formal unconditional recognition order. (13)-(14) * * * 8. Conditions for grant of recognition: 27 2

 Programme, if it has accredited itself with the 

 National Assessment and Accreditation Council 

 (NAAC) with a grade of B+ on a nine point scale 

 developed by NAAC. (5) No institution shall be granted recognition 

 under these regulations unless it is in possession 

 of required land on the date of application. The 

 land free from all encumbrances could be either on 

 ownership basis or on lease for a period of not less 

 than 30 years. In cases where under relevant 

 State/UT laws the maximum permissible lease 

 period is less than 30 years, the State 

 Government/UT Administration law shall prevail. (6)-(9) * * *

 (10) An institution shall make admission only after 

 it obtains unconditional letter of recognition from 

 the Regional Committee concerned, and affiliation 

 from the examining body. (11) Whenever there are changes in the norms and 

 standards for the course or training in teacher 

 education, the institution shall comply with the 

 requirements laid down in the revised norms and 

 standards immediately but not later than the date 

 of commencement of the next academic session, 

 subject to conditions prescribed in the revised 

 norms. (12)-(14) * * *" 7. Appendix-1 of the Norms and Standards for Secondary Teacher 

 Education Programme leading to Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.) 

 Degree, which was notified with the 2002 Regulations and was 

 retained in the 2005 Regulations was amended vide notification 


 28 2

dated 12.7.2006, paragraphs 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 of 

which are extracted below: 29 2

 3.2.1 Candidates with at least 50% marks either in 

 the Bachelor's Degree and/or in the Master's 

 degree or any other qualification equivalent 

 thereto, are eligible for admission to the 

 programme. 3.2.2 There shall be relaxation of 

 marks/reservation of seats for candidates 

 belonging to SC/ST/OBC communities and other 

 categories as per the Rules of the Central/State 

 Government/UT Administration concerned.

 3.3 Admission Procedure

 Admission shall be made on merit on the basis of 

 marks obtained in the qualifying examination 

 and/or in the entrance examination or any other 

 selection process as per the policy of the State 

 Government/U.T. Administration and the 

 University." 8. The 2005 Regulations were repealed by the National Council for 

 Teacher Education (Recognition Norms and Procedure) 

 Regulations, 2007, the relevant provisions of which read as 

 under: 30 3

(4) Self-financed educational institutions 

established and operated by `not for profit', 

Societies and Trusts registered under the 

appropriate law. 5. Manner of making application and time-

limit.--(1) An institution eligible under Regulation 

4 , desirous of running a teacher education 

programme may apply to the concerned Regional 

Committee of NCTE for recognition in the 

prescribed form in triplicate along with processing 

fee and requisite documents. (2) The form can be downloaded from the Council's 

website www.ncte-in.org, free of cost. The said 

form can also be obtained from the office of the 

Regional Committee concerned by payment of Rs. 

1000 (Rupees one thousand only) by way of a 

demand draft of a nationalised bank drawn in 

favour of the Member-Secretary, NCTE payable at 

the city where the office of the Regional Committee 

is located. (3) An application can be submitted conventionally 

or electronically online. In the latter case, the 

requisite documents in triplicate along with the 

processing fee shall be submitted separately to the 

office of the Regional Committee concerned. Those 

who apply online shall have the benefit of not to 

pay for the form. (4) The cut-off date for submission of application to 

the Regional Committee concerned shall be 31st 

October of the preceding year to the academic 

session for which recognition has been sought.

(5) All complete applications received on or before 

31st October of the year shall be processed for the 

next academic session and final decision, either 

recognition granted or refused, shall be 

communicated by 15th May of the succeeding 

year. 7. Processing of applications.--(1) The applicant 

institutions shall ensure submission of 

applications complete in all respects. However, in 

order to cover the inadvertent omissions or 

deficiencies in documents, the office of the 

Regional Committee shall point out the 

deficiencies within 30 days of receipt of the 

applications, which the applicants shall remove 

within 90 days. No application shall be processed 

if the processing fees of Rs. 40,000 is not 

submitted and such applications would be 

returned to the applicant institutions.

(2) Simultaneously, on receipt of application, a 

written communication along with a copy of the 

application form submitted by the institution(s) 

shall be sent by the office of the Regional 

Committees to the State Government/UT 

administration concerned. (3) On receipt of the communication, the State 

Government/UT administration concerned shall 

furnish its recommendations on the applications 

to the office of the Regional Committee concerned 

of the National Council for Teacher Education 

within 60 days from receipt. If the 

recommendation is negative, the State 

Government/UT administration shall provide 

detailed reasons/grounds thereof with necessary 

statistics, which shall be taken into consideration 

by the Regional Committee concerned while 

deciding the application. If no communication is 

received from the State Government/UT 

administration within the stipulated 60 days, it 

shall be presumed that the State Government/UT 

administration concerned has no recommendation 

to make. (4) After removal of all the deficiencies and to the 

satisfaction of the Regional Committee concerned, 

the inspection of infrastructure, equipments, 

instructional facilities, etc. of an institution shall 


 32 3

be conducted by a team of experts called Visiting 

Team (VT) with a view to assessing the level of 

preparedness of the institution to commence the 

course. Inspection would be subject to the consent 

of the institution and submission of the self-

attested copy of the completion certificate of the 

building. Such inspection, as far as 

administratively and logistically possible, shall be 

in the chronological order of the date of receipt of 

the consent of the institution. In case the consent 

from more than one institution is received on the 

same day, alphabetical order may be followed. The 

inspection shall be conducted within 30 days of 

receipt of the consent of the institution. (5)-(8) * * *

(9) The institution concerned shall be informed, 

through a letter, of the decision for grant of 

recognition or permission subject to appointment 

of qualified faculty members before the 

commencement of the academic session. The letter 

issued under this clause shall not be notified in 

the Gazette. The faculty shall be appointed on the 

recommendations of the Selection Committee duly 

constituted as per the policy of the State 

Government/Central Government/University/UGC 

or the affiliating body concerned, as the case may 

be. The applicant institution shall submit an 

affidavit in the prescribed form that the Selection 

Committee has been constituted as stated above. A 

separate staff list with the details would be 

submitted in the prescribed form. The Regional 

Committee would rely on the above affidavit and 

the staff list before processing the case for grant of 

formal recognition. (10) All the applicant institutions shall launch 

their own website soon after the receipt of the 

letter from the Regional Committee under Regulation 7(9) covering, inter alia, the details of 

the institution, its location, name of the course 

applied for with intake, availability of physical 


 33 3

infrastructure (land, building, office, classrooms, 

and other facilities/amenities), instructional 

facilities (laboratory, library, etc.) and the 

particulars of their proposed teaching and non-

teaching staff, etc. with photographs, for 

information of all concerned. (11) The institution concerned, after appointing the 

requisite faculty/staff as per Regulation 7(9) above 

and fulfilling the conditions under Regulation 

7(10) above shall formally inform the Regional 

Committee concerned along with the requisite 

affidavit and staff list. The Regional Committee 

concerned shall then issue a formal recognition 

order that shall be notified as per provision of the NCTE Act . (12)-(13) * * * 8. Conditions for grant of recognition.--(1) An 

institution must fulfil all the prescribed conditions 

related to norms and standards as prescribed by 

NCTE for conducting the course or training in 

teacher education. These norms, inter alia, cover 

conditions relating to financial resources, 

accommodation, library, laboratory, other physical 

infrastructure, qualified staff including teaching 

and non-teaching personnel, etc.

(2) In the first instance, an institution shall be 

considered for grant of recognition for only one 

course for the basic unit as prescribed in the 

norms and standards for the particular teacher 

education programme. An institution can apply for 

one basic unit of an additional course from the 

subsequent academic session. However, 

application for not more than one additional 

course can be made in a year. (3) An institution shall be permitted to apply for 

enhancement of course wise intake in teacher 

education courses already approved, after 


 34 3

completion of three academic sessions of running 

the respective courses. (4) An institution shall be permitted to apply for 

enhancement of intake in Secondary Teacher 

Education Programme -- BEd & BPEd programme, 

if it has accredited itself with the National 

Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with 

a Letter Grade B developed by NAAC. (5) An institution that has been granted additional 

intake in BEd and BPEd teacher training courses 

after promulgation of the 2005 Regulations i.e. 13-

1-2006 shall have to be accredited itself with the 

National Assessment and Accreditation Council 

(NAAC) with a Letter Grade B under the new 

grading system developed by NAAC before 1-4-

2010 failing which the additional intake granted 

shall stand withdrawn w.e.f. the academic session 

2010-2011. (6) * * *

(7) No institution shall be granted recognition 

under these regulations unless it is in possession 

of required land on the date of application. The 

land free from all encumbrances could be either on 

ownership basis or on lease from 

Government/government institutions for a period 

of not less than 30 years. In cases where under 

relevant State/UT laws the maximum permissible 

lease period is less than 30 years, the State 

Government/UT administration law shall prevail. 

However, no building could be taken on lease for 

running any teacher training course. (8)-(9) * * *

 (10) At the time of inspection, the building of the 

institution shall be complete in the form of a 

permanent structure on the land possessed by the 

institution in terms of Regulation 8(7) , equipped 

with all necessary amenities and fulfilling all such 

requirements as prescribed in the norms and 


 35 3

 standards. The applicant institution shall produce 

 the original completion certificate, approved 

 building plan in proof of the completion of building 

 and built-up area and other documents to the 

 visiting team for verification. No temporary 

 structure/asbestos roofing shall be allowed. (11) * * *

 (12) An institution shall make admission only after 

 it obtains order of recognition from the Regional 

 Committee concerned under Regulation 7(11) , and 

 affiliation from the examining body. (13)-(16) * * *" The details of the petitions filed in 2007 and 2008 and the 

orders passed by the High Court

9.1 One of the four Committees constituted by the Council 

under Section 20(1) of the 1993 Act is the Western Regional 

Committee, which is required to perform functions under Sections 

14 , 15 and 17 in relation to the States of Gujarat, Goa, Madhya 

Pradesh and Maharashtra. In the last about 15 years, the Western 

Regional Committee entertained thousands of applications made 

by private institutions for starting teacher training courses albeit 

without ensuring compliance of the mandatory provisions 

contained in the 1993 Act and the relevant regulations. Some of 

these institutions were started in commercial premises like 

marriage halls and shops, and in the existing school premises 

without the required infrastructure and staff. They admitted 


 36 3

students from different parts of the country, majority of whom did 

not even know the place from where the institutions were 

operating. This must have become possible because of the active 

or tacit connivance of those who were entrusted with the task of 

ensuring effective implementation of the provisions of the 1993 

Act. When the Central Government was apprised of the 

irregularities committed by the Western Regional Committee in the 

matter of grant of recognition to the so-called teacher training 

institutions, it was decided to take necessary corrective measures. 

Therefore, the Central Government invoked the power vested in it 

under Section 29(1) of the 1993 Act and directed that henceforth 

no recognition be granted to any teacher training 

institution/courses/additional intake by the Western Regional 

Committee. The decision of the Central Government was 

communicated to the Chairperson of NCTE vide letter dated 

20.8.2007, the relevant portions of which are extracted below: 38 3

9.2 The NCTE sent letter dated 22.8.2007 to the Regional 

Director, Western Regional Committee incorporating therein the 

direction issued by the Central Government. That letter reads as 

under: 9.3 The directions issued by the Central Government were 

challenged by Amrit Vidyapeeth B.Ed. College, Siddhi in Writ 

Petition No. 14227 of 2007 filed before the Madhya Pradesh High 

Court. A large number of other private collages and institutions 

(198) which were desirous of starting teacher training courses. 

They pleaded that even though the applications filed by them for 

recognition were complete in all respects and they had already got 

`No Objection Certificates' from the State Government and 

affiliation from the examining bodies, the Western Regional 

Committee was not entertaining their applications because of the 

restriction imposed by the Central Government. All the writ 

petitions were dismissed by the Division Bench of the High Court 

vide its order dated 29.11.2007. The Division Bench adverted to 

the scheme of the 1993 Act, referred to the judgments of this 

Court in Food Corporation of India v. Bhanu Lodh ( 2005) 3 SCC 

618 and State of Maharashtra v. Sant Dnyaneshwar Shikshan 

Shastra Mahavidyalaya (2006) 9 SCC 1 and held that the Central 


 40 4

Government has the power to issue the directions impugned in the 

writ petitions. The reasons assigned by the Division Bench for 

arriving at this conclusion are contained in paragraph 32 of order 

dated 29.11.2007, which is extracted below: It is because the purpose of the Act is to provide for 

 establishment of a National Council for Teacher 

 Education with a view to achieve planned and co-

 ordinated development of the teacher education system 

 throughout the country. That apart, Regulation 4 deals 


 41 4

 with eligibility and Regulation 8 deals with the 

 conditions for grant of recognition. We have already 

 referred to Section 12 of the Act. In view of the object 

 and reasons and the role assigned to the Council and 

 the power conferred on the Central Government we 

 come to the irresistible conclusion that the direction 

 issued by the Central Government is within the ambit 

 and sweep of its powers and not de hors the statutory 

 exercise of power." The plea that the students who had taken admission should be 

permitted to appear in the examination was rejected by the 

Division Bench by making the following observations: 42 4

 institution without recognition can nurture the idea to 

 admit students. A day dreamer can build a castle in the 

 air or for that matter castle in Spain, but it is absolutely 

 inapposite on the part of aspirants registered bodies or 

 institutions to admit students and pyramid the 

 foundation relying on the bedrock of legitimate 

 expectation that the students would be treated as 

 students who have been admitted in such institutions 

 in such course which are valid in law. An educational 

 institution has to conduct itself in an apple pie order. It 

 has to maintain the sacredness of the concept behind 

 imparting education. They are under obligation to keep 

 in mind that commercialization of course under 1993 

 Act is impermissible. Quite apart from the above it is 

 totally imprudent and in a way quite audacious to 

 build a superstructure without an infrastructure. If 

 we allow ourselves to say so, perception has been 

 blinded and in the ultimate eventuate a cataclysm has 

 been unwarrantedly invited. We may say without 

 any fear of contradiction that it is a perceptible 

 deception and fraud on law Ergo. The stance that they 

 have to be given the benefit of legitimate expectation 

 and their interest should be protected, is devoid of any 

 substance and we unhesitatingly repel the same."

9.4 Another batch of 18 writ petitions with the lead case 

Pitambra Peeth Shiksha Prasarani Samiti v. State of M.P. and 

others W.P. (C) No. 15276 of 2007, filed for quashing the decision 

of the State Government to hold common entrance examination for 

admission to B.Ed. courses was disposed of by the Division Bench 

of the High Court vide order dated 14.12.2007. The Division 

Bench referred to the provisions of the 1993 Act as well as the 

M.P. B.Ed. Examination Rules, 2007, order dated 29.11.2007 


 43 4

passed in Writ Petition No.14227 of 2007 and batch, took 

cognizance of the fact that some of the students had taken 

admissions in the unrecognized institutions and proceeded to 

observe: The Division Bench rejected the petitioners' plea for permission to 

hold college level counseling and observed: 44 4

college level counselling. Submission of the 

learned counsel for the petitioners is that the 

seats should not lie vacant and college level 

counselling should be allowed. It is urged that 

the State Government has illegally introduced the 

centralized counselling. In this context we may 

refer to clause 3.2 of NCTE Norms which reads 

as under: As is demonstrable from clause 3.2 it deals with 

the eligibility of a candidate and clause 3.3 deals 

with the admission procedure. The State 

Government has taken mode of common 

entrance examination. This is a policy decision 

taken by the State Government. As is manifest, 

the NCTE has deliberately introduced norms and 

left it to the discretion of the State Government 

and hence, holding of the entrance test cannot be 

found fault with. Once the said mode has been 

taken recourse to the college level counselling 


 45 4

 should not be allowed. Therefore, the aforesaid 

 submission of the learned counsel for the 

 petitioners leaves us unimpressed and we repel 

 the same." The conclusions recorded by the Division Bench of the High Court 

in the aforesaid batch of cases are extracted below: 9.5 The State of Madhya Pradesh challenged the aforesaid 

order in SLP(C) No. 3269 of 2008, etc., which were disposed of by 

this Court on 18.2.2008 in the following terms: 9.7 S.R. College of Education filed Writ Petition No. 4016 of 

2008 for quashing the decision of the university not to grant 

affiliation on the ground that it did not have NOC from the Higher 

Education Department of the State Government. The University 

took up the stand that the college cannot participate in the 

counseling because it did not have recognition or affiliation. The 

Division Bench of the High Court noticed the judgment in Jan 

Seva Shiksha Samiti 's case and held: We are really shocked how a prayer could have 

 been made to allow the petitioner to participate 

 in the re-counseling of B.Ed., without insisting 

 for NOC by the State Government. The said stage 

 has not yet come into existence. A litigant is 

 supposed to know whether he has a real 

 grievance or he has made an effort to build a 


 52 5

castle in the air. An educational institution which 

is supposed to impart, education in B.Ed., course 

has to have legal opinion in the field but as it 

seems all norms are thrown to the winds and the 

writ petition is filed by picking a straw either 

from here to there. This does not help. When the 

petitioner had approached this court and no 

relief was granted and it was clearly held that all 

the institutions would be governed by the 

directions contained in paragraph 42 of Jan Seva 

Shiksha Samiti (supra), it is really shocking that 

such an ambitious petition, is filed. It would not 

be out of place to say that the State Government 

has acted contrary to the judgments but the 

institutions which, could have been aggrieved by 

such action could have filed the writ petitions 

and that would have been a sanguine grievance. 

But the petitioner institutions do not fall in the 

said category. Under the circumstances, we are 

disposed to think an ingenious effort is made to 

build up an edifice to have the relief which has 

already been etherized. Almost six decades back, 

it was said by Agnes E. Benedict, `the only thing 

better than education is more education,' but the 

present case demonstrates a situation where one 

can say with certitude that it smells of foul play 

and drafts out a mephitic ambition. The 

institutions which are concerned with education 

should have ethicality, probity, propriety, parity, 

righteousness, ability, honesty, rectitude 

acclaimed virtues and not unnecessary and 

unwarranted excitement, glee to achieve glory in 

any mariner, elation at the cost of legality, 

jubilation at the murder of all norms and rapture 

by chartering away all normative guidelines. 18. In view of our aforesaid analysis, while 

holding that the State Government could not 

have insisted for NOC as per the law laid down in the case of Jan Seva Shiksha Samiti (supra), we 

conclude and hold that the petitioner institutions 

in each case are not entitled to any relief and the 


 53 5

 petitions are dismissed. We may further state 

 here that we would have imposed exemplary 

 costs as it was within the special knowledge of 

 the petitioners that they could not have got the 

 relief without further action being taken by the 

 Apex Body of the NCTE and without the 

 affiliation, yet we restrain from, doing so for the 

 present as we treat this spate of litigations as a 

 manifestation of unwarranted and uncalled for 

 anxiety on the part of the persons who are in the 

 management of the said institutions." 9.9 In Rajendra Katare Shiksha Mahavidyalaya v. State of 

M.P. and others W.P. No. 3679 of 2008 the High Court held that 

the petitioner cannot make admission without obtaining 

recognition from the competent authority and affiliation from the 

concerned University. The High Court also observed that 

recognition and affiliation will be prospective and any authority 

making an effort to take steps contrary to the directions given by it 

would be liable for contempt. 9.10 In Siddhi Vinayak College, Bhind v. State of M.P. and 

others W.P. No. 1558 of 2008, the Division Bench of the High 

Court referred to the interim directions issued by the learned 

Single Judge and observed: 9.11 In Sheetla Shiksha Mahavidyalaya, Gwalior v. State of 

M.P. and others Writ Petition No. 6716 of 2008 the petitioner 

challenged the decision of the Board of Secondary Education not 

to grant affiliation. The Court noticed the affidavit filed on behalf 

of the NCTE and held that the recognition granted under the 1993 

Act is prospective and no institution can admit students without 

having recognition from the competent authority. 

9.12 Vikramaditya Mahavidhyalaya, Jabalpur filed Writ 

Petition No. 6113 of 2008 impleading the Union of India, the 

NCTE, Western Regional Committee of NCTE, the State of M.P. 


 55 5

and six universities of Madhya Pradesh as party respondents and 

prayed for issue of direction to the universities to withdraw the 

affiliation granted to non-deserving colleges and to restrain them 

from declaring the result of the students admitted in such 

colleges. It was further prayed that the universities be directed 

not to conduct the examination for the students of non-deserving 

colleges. That petition was disposed of by the Division Bench of 

the High Court vide order dated 31.7.2008. While disapproving 

the actions of the universities to grant affiliation by overlooking 

the fact that the institutions had not complied with the mandate of Regulation 7(9) , (11) and (12), the Division Bench gave several 

directions, some of which are reproduced below: 56 5 (d) The order of recognition is always prospective. (e) On the basis of the order of recognition, the 

institution is entitled to obtain affiliation from the 

examining body after fulfilling the criteria 

mentioned in the NCTE Act and Regulations and 

thereafter admit the students. (f) The NCTE cannot pass an order of recognition 

retrospectively. (g) The order of recognition itself does not enable 

the institution to treat the recognition as a 

blanket order and violate other requirements that 

may be prescribed by the affiliating examining 

body which is in accord with the 1993 Act and 

Regulations. (i) The State Government shall positively reply to 

the Apex Body of the NCTE within a week hence, 

failing which it would be presumed that it has no 

recommendation to make. (j) The universities shall forward the documents 

received by them to the NCTE for verification with 

regard to the status of recognition and their 

queries within a week hence by special 

messengers. (k) The Apex Body shall scrutinize the recognition 

order and the documents brought on file and 

take a decision whether those institutions are 

recognized or not. The said decision shall be 

taken within a period of seven days therefrom, 

i.e., seven days from the receipt of the documents 

from the universities. The Apex Body shall also 

scrutinize the recognitions which were not the 

subject matter of the litigation before this Court 

to find out whether the said recognitions were 

valid as per the NCTE Act and the Regulations 

framed thereunder. (l) The Apex Body shall communicate to the 

universities and the State Government about the 


 57 5

 recognition facet positively within a week 

 therefrom. (m) The universities shall scrutinize the norms 

 for the purpose of grant of affiliation in terms of 

 the order of recognition and the provisions 

 contained in the Regulations, regard being had to 

 the decisions of this Court within seven days and 

 issue letters of affiliation wherever justified. (p) If any admission has already been given, the 

 same shall be kept in abeyance. (q) The case of the petitioner-college shall also be 

 scrutinized by the Apex Body of the NCTE as well 

 as by the concerned university." The details of the orders passed in Writ Petition No. 6146 of 

2008 and connected cases

10.1 Subhash Rahangdale filed Writ Petition No.6146 of 

2008 by way of Public Interest Litigation and prayed for issue of 

direction to the NCTE, State of M.P., Barkatullah University and 

others for ensuring proper maintenance of norms and standards 

in the teacher education system in various colleges run by 

different educational societies / entities or the institutions 

financed by Central / State Government or Union Territory 

Administration or the universities including the deemed 

universities and self-financed educational institutions established 

and operated by non-profit making societies and trusts registered 

within the State. He prayed for appointment of an expert team of 


 58 5

NCTE for conducting inspection of all the recognized institutions 

under Section 13 and 17 of the 1993 Act and also for issue of a 

direction to Western Regional Committee to take action in light of 

the report of the expert team. Another prayer made by him was for 

directing the universities and examining bodies not to take 

examination of the students who did not satisfy the conditions of 

eligibility. 10.2 The Division Bench of the High Court passed interim 

orders dated 14.10.2008; 23.10.2008 and 15.12.2008 and 

directed the NCTE to prepare exhaustive lists of recognized 

colleges and re-scrutinize those lists and verify whether norms 

and procedures were followed at the time of appointment of faculty 

members and whether they were still continuing in the colleges. 

On 17.12.2008 the High Court passed a detailed order, paragraph 

54 of which is extracted below: 59 5 b) The University Teaching Department and the 

Colleges which have been cleared and have held 

the examinations, the results shall be published. c) The Colleges which have been cleared and 

where we have stated that affiliation should not 

have been discontinued and where a fresh 

affiliation is necessary because all formalities 

were completed if any other formalities remain to 

be complied with as required by the University, 

the same shall be complied with within a period 

of 15 days from the date of intimation by the 

concerned University. d) As far as other colleges in respect of which 

inspection have carried out by the NCTE and 

have not been cleared, the inspection shall be 

completed on University-wise basis by 

20.01.2009. e) The NCTE shall make a college-wise report and 

behave like a statutory body with responsibility 

by enclosing the documents so that it will be 

properly appreciated. f) The students who have prosecuted studies in 

the colleges which have been cleared must have 

completed the period of study as per the norms 

of Regulations, 2007, i.e., 180 days. If the period 

of study is found to be inadequate, the students 

would not be allowed to appear in the 

examination. g) The students who have prosecuted their 

studies in UDT and Government colleges would 

be entitled to appear subject to compliance of 

norms of Regulation 2007. h) The examination in respect of aforesaid 

students shall be held in the last week of 

February, 2009. 60 6

10.3 Swavittiya Ashaskiya Mahavidyalaya Vikas Sangh 

challenged the order dated 17.12.2008 in SLP (C) No. 5485 of 

2009. Vidyavati College and others also challenged that order in 

SLP(C) Nos. 5486 of 2009. Initially, this Court passed an order of 

stay on 14.01.2009 but the same was modified on 19.01.2009 in 

the following terms: 10.4 Thereafter, the High Court considered report dated 

27.1.2009 prepared by the Committee of the NCTE which had 

undertaken detailed scrutiny of the status of various institutions 

engaged in conducting teacher training courses. The Committee 

divided the institutions in the following four categories: Category 04

 Institutions which are not recognized during 2007-

 08 due to not having staff during sessions or due 

 to decisions of Hon'ble Court in Amrit Vidyapeeth 

 Case. 10.5 After noticing the categorization done by the Committee, 

the High Court issued the following directions: 10.6 Clause (3) of the above noted directions was substituted 

on 30.1.2009 with the following: 10.7 In furtherance of the directions given by the High Court, 

the Committee of the NCTE conducted inspection of majority of 

the 364 institutions of which the details were furnished by 7 

universities of the State and found that the students of 221 

institutions were eligible to take the examinations for academic 

session 2007-08 and more than 55 institutions were covered by 

the directions given in Amrit Vidyapeeth and Jan Seva Shikshan 

Samiti cases. The High Court also noted that the Committee had 

prepared a separate list of 17 colleges in respect of which some 

doubts were expressed and another list of 22 colleges which were 

not scrutinized earlier and proceeded to observe: 10.8 The Division Bench of the High Court observed that the 

recognition granted after scrutiny by the NCTE and the 

universities in the light of the directions given in the earlier cases 

including Vikramaditya Mahavidhyalaya's case should be treated 

as prospective, i.e., for the year 2008-2009. The High Court then 

referred to the schemes of Sections 14 , 15 and 17 of the 1993 Act, 

Regulations 7(9), (11) and (12), 8(1), (5), (8), (10) and (11) of the 

1995 Regulations, Regulations 7(7), (9) and (11) and 8 of the 2007 

Regulations and recorded its conclusions and directions in para 

60, which are extracted hereunder: 66 6 (c) There cannot be any kind of compromise or 

relaxation with regard to imperative conditions as 

prescribed under sub- section 14 (3) of the Act. (d) No examining body can grant affiliation 

unless there is recognition by the NCTE as 

contemplated under Section 16 of the Act. (e) If an educational institution is aggrieved by 

the order of refusal of recognition by the Regional 

Committee it can submit a representation to the 

said Committee. (f) If a decision is taken against the affected 

institution by the Committee, an appeal can be 

preferred under Section 18 of the Act to the 

Council, and said remedies are alternative and 

efficacious. (g) The grant of recognition and benefit of 

extension of affiliation are always prospective. 

Neither the NCTE nor the University can make it 

retrospective in nature. (h) Section 14 (5) is relatable only to the 

institutions which were offering a course or 

training in teacher education at the 

commencement of the Act. (i) Section 17 (1) of the Act basically and 

fundamentally deals with the withdrawal of 

recognition of such recognized institutions. (j) As far as the withdrawal is concerned the 

same shall come into force only with effect from 

the end of the academic session inasmuch as the 

withdrawal relates to an already recognized 

institutions and hence, statutory protection has 

been granted. 67 6 (k) The terms "refusing recognition" used in 

second proviso to Section 17 (1) can alone relate to 

sub-section (1) and (5) of Section 14 to give a 

purposeful meaning to the same and regard being 

had to the scheme of provisions occurring the said 

chapter. (l) The contention that students could have been 

admitted without proper recognition and affiliation 

by the educational institution is sans substratum. (m) The list of colleges which have been cleared 

by the NCTE are treated as recognized institutions 

under the Act but the institution which are 

covered on the principle of Jan Seva Shika Samit (supra) cannot be allowed to undertake the 

examination for the academic session 2007-08 

since at the time of admitting the students they 

did not have recognition in terms of Section 14 (3) of the Act and affiliation from the concerned 

Universities. (n) The students who had admitted in the said 

colleges, if the said Colleges have been cleared by 

the NCTE in its list, can prosecute the studies as 

per the norms of the NCTE and thereafter appear 

in the examination. (o) The claim put forth by the students that they 

should be equitably dealt with and be permitted to 

appear in the examination keeping in view the 

prosecution of their studies in such colleges is 

negative since their studying in the unrecognized 

colleges/institutions cannot be regarded as 

prosecution of studies as per the norms laid down 

by the NCTE and such an order would tantamount 

to grant of premium to the educational institutors. (p) If any student has felt betrayed or deceived 

by educational institution it is open to him to take 

appropriate steps claiming compensation. 68 6 (q) The institutions which had collected fees 

 from the students for the academic Session 2007-

 08 and the students are not in a position to avail 

 the benefit of such studies, the Colleges are under 

 an obligation to refund the fees and the amount 

 which had been collected from the students, if the 

 students so desired. This is without prejudice to 

 the claim of the students who put forth their stand 

 and stance for claiming compensation. (r) The NCTE shall bifurcate the recognized 

 colleges on the parameter of Jan Sevan Shiksa 

 Samit (supra) which are fit to undertake 2007-08 

 examination on the basis of education imparted 

 and other colleges which are to be recognized for 

 the subsequent academic session. (s) The institution which are aggrieved by the 

 action of refusal or recognition or withdrawal of 

 recognition shall be communicated by the order by 

 the competent authority of the NCTE, if not done 

 so far, within three weeks and it would be open to 

 said institutions to take statutory remedy as 

 contemplated under Sections 14 and 18 of the Act. (t) It would be open to the institutions to put 

 forth their stand from all spectrums and the 

 authorities concerned would be under an 

 obligation to pass cogent and speaking order.

 (u) The educational institutions in respect of 

 which withdrawal of recognition is sought for, the 

 same has to be in accord with Section 17 (1) of the 

 Act and that would be as per the second proviso to 

 the said section. (v) The Colleges in respect of which results have 

 been published shall reap the benefit of such 

 declaration." The grounds of challenge


 69 6 11. The appellants have challenged the impugned orders on the 

 following grounds: (iv) That the High Court misinterpreted the provisions of Sections 14 and 17 of the 1993 Act and the Regulations 

 framed thereunder and erroneously assumed that an 

 order refusing recognition would operate with 

 retrospective effect. The withdrawal of recognition by 

 the Regional Committee in the light of the directions 

 given by the High Court in Jan Seva Shiksha Samiti v. 

 State of Madhya Pradesh (supra) should be treated as 

 prospective and the students admitted before 

 withdrawal of recognition should be held entitled to 

 appear in the examination conducted by the examining 

 body. (v) Since the Government failed 

 to fill up the vacant seats through the centralised 

 counselling, the appellants did not commit any illegality 


 71 7

 by admitting the students on the basis of institutional 

 counselling. (vi) The 2007 Regulations are not retrospective and the 

 same cannot be relied upon for refusing recognition to 

 the institutions which had applied prior to the coming 

 into force of those regulations. (vii) The students who had been admitted prior to the 

 decisions of the cases referred to in the impugned order 

 cannot be denied the right to appear in the examination 

 to be conducted by the competent body and the 

 respondents are duty bound to declare the result of 

 those who have already appeared in the examination. 12. In furtherance of the liberty given by the Court the counsel 

 for the appellants filed written submissions on behalf of self-

 financed private B.Ed. institutions, the salient features of the 

 written submissions are: (ii.) The State Government failed to fill up vacant seats for 

 2007-08 even though it was directed to do so by the 

 Supreme Court vide order dated 18.2.2008 in SLP (C) No. 

 3269/2008 " State of MP v. PP Prasarsarni Samiti & rs." 

 and order dated 7.3.2008 passed in IA No. 5 in SLP (C) 

 No. 17093 of 2007. (iii.) The respondents should be directed to declare the result of 

 the students who were provisionally admitted and were 

 allowed to take part in the examination pursuant to the 

 interim orders passed by the High Court and the Supreme 

 Court. 73 7

 (iv.) In its affidavit dated 24.7.2010 the NCTE has treated as 

 valid the recognition granted to various institutions for the 

 session 2007-08 and has also stated that the withdrawal 

 of recognition under Section 17 of the 1993 Act would 

 operate prospectively and would not affect the students 

 already admitted. (v.) Some of the petitioners have not been granted affiliations 

 by their respective Universities for academic session 2007-

 08, although requisite fee has been accepted for this 

 academic session. The practice in some of the Universities 

 have been that once the affiliation order is granted for a 

 particular session, then the requisite fee has been asked to 

 pay but without issuing any affiliation order. In fact, this 

 situation is beyond the control of the institutions seeking 

 affiliations. 13. In paragraph 8 of the written submissions, it has been stated 

 that the self-financed private B.Ed. colleges undertake not to 

 admit any student in future except through centralised 

 counselling for any of the academic session. 74 7 14. In the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the State of Madhya 

 Pradesh in SLP(C) No. 14020/2009 and other SLPs, the 

 following significant averments have been made: 15. In the counter affidavits filed by Rani Durgawati University, 

 Jabalpur, Barkatullah University, Bhopal and Dr. Hari Singh 

 Gour University, Sagar in SLP(C) No. 35300/2009, it has been 

 pleaded that the appellants deliberately flouted the rules 

 relating to admission and admitted the students de hors the 

 procedure contained in Annexure 1 appended to the 

 Regulations and the interim order passed by the High Court on 

 13.9.2007. A large number of students were admitted without 

 passing the entrance examination conducted in 2007 and 

 without appearing for centralized counselling. Barkatullah 

 University had allotted 25256 students to different institutions 

 through centralized counseling held for the Session 2007-08 

 but 28106 appeared in the examinations in furtherance of the 

 interim orders passed by the Courts. CONSIDERATION 16. In the light of the above, we shall first consider whether the 

 High Court committed an error by entertaining the writ petition 


 76 7

filed by Subhash Rahangdale as public interest litigation. This 

Court has, time and again, laid down guiding principles for 

entertaining petitions filed in public interest. However, for the 

purpose of deciding the appellants' objection it is not necessary 

to advert to the plethora of precedents on the subject because 

in State of Uttaranchal v. Balwant Singh Chaufal (2010) 3 SCC 

402, a two-Judge Bench discussed the development of law 

relating to public interest litigation and reiterated that before 

entertaining such petitions, the Court must feel satisfied that 

the petitioner has genuinely come forward to espouse public 

cause and his litigious venture is not guided by any ulterior 

motive or is not a publicity gimmick. In paragraphs 96 to 104, 

the Bench discussed Phase-III of the public interest litigation in 

the context of transparency and probity in governance, referred 

to the judgments in Vineet Narain v. Union of India (1998) 1 

SCC 226, Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India (2003) 7 SCC 532, Rajiv Ranjan Singh "Lalan" (VIII) v. Union of 

India ( 2006) 6 SCC 613, M.C. Mehta v. Union of India ( 2007) 1 

SCC 110, M.C. Mehta v. Union of India (2008) 1 SCC 407 and 

observed: 77 7

 "These are some of the cases where the Supreme Court 

 and the High Courts broadened the scope of public 

 interest litigation and also entertained petitions to 

 ensure that in governance of the State, there is 

 transparency and no extraneous considerations are 

 taken into consideration except the public interest. 

 These cases regarding probity in governance or 

 corruption in public life dealt with by the courts can 

 be placed in the third phase of public interest 

 litigation." 17. Reference also deserves to be made to the judgment of the 

 three-Judge Bench in Shivajirao Nilangekar Patil v. Dr. Mahesh 

 Madhav Gosavi (1987) 1 SCC 227 in which a new dimension 

 was given to the power of the Superior Courts to make 

 investigation into the issues of public importance even though 

 the petitioner may have moved the Court for vindication of a 

 private interest. In that case the High Court had entertained a 

 writ petition filed by Assistant Medical Officer of K.E.M. 

 Hospital, Bombay questioning the assessment of answer sheets 

 of the Post Graduate Medical Examinations held by the Bombay 

 University in October 1985. He alleged malpractices in the 

 evaluation of the answer sheets of the daughter of the appellant 

 who, at the relevant time, was Chief Minister of the State. The 

 learned Single Judge held that altering and tampering of the 

 grade sheets was done by Dr. Rawal at the behest of the Chief 


 78 7

 Minister. The Division Bench affirmed the order of the learned 

 Single Judge with some modification. While rejecting the 

 objection raised on behalf of the appellant that the writ petition 

 filed by the respondent cannot be treated as a petition filed in 

 public interest, this Court observed: (emphasis supplied) 18. What the respondent had done by filing the writ petition was to 

 highlight grave irregularities committed by the Western 

 Regional Committee of NCTE in granting recognition to private 

 institutions who did not fulfill the mandatory conditions 

 relating to financial resources, accommodation, library, 

 laboratory and other physical infrastructure and qualified staff 


 79 7

and admitted students who had either not passed the entrance 

test or had not appeared for the centralised counselling 

conducted under the directions issued by the State 

Government. The respondent derived support from the orders 

passed by the High Court in various cases. The statement made 

by Shri Hasib Ahmad, Member Secretary, NCTE, who appeared 

before this Court on 21.7.2010, that effective steps have been 

taken after discovery of irregularities in the grant of recognition 

to various private colleges in the State of Madhya Pradesh and 

other States falling within the Western Region also gives 

credence to the respondents' assertion that all was not well with 

the Western Regional Committee. In the pleadings filed before 

this Court, the appellants have not suggested that the 

respondents had filed the writ petition to settle score with any 

institution or with some ulterior motive. Learned counsel for 

the appellants also did not make any such argument. 

Therefore, it cannot be said that the High Court committed 

error by entertaining the writ petition and ordering an inquiry 

into the allegations of irregularities committed in the matter of 

recognition and affiliation of self-financed private institutions 

and admission of the students by such institutions. If the High 


 80 8

 Court had not ordered re-scrutiny of the recognition/affiliation 

 granted to the private institutions, the irregularities committed 

 by Western Regional Committee may never have seen the light 

 of the day and we do not see any reason to nullify the exercise 

 undertaken by the High Court to ensure that the provisions of 

 the 1993 Act and the Regulations thereunder are strictly 

 followed by the authorities entrusted with the task of granting 

 recognition and affiliation to the institutions and colleges 

 engaged in conducting teacher training courses. 19. The next question, which merits consideration is whether the 

 impugned order is contrary to the rules of natural justice, i.e., 

 audi alteram partem. In this context, it is apposite to note that 

 in the impugned order, the High Court has not discussed 

 eligibility or entitlement of any particular institution to get 

 recognition or affiliation. What High Court has done is to 

 interpret the relevant statutory provisions in light of the 

 judgments of this Court and orders passed by it in other writ 

 petitions. After examining the provisions of the 1993 Act and 

 the Regulations, the High Court held that sub-section (3) of Section 14 and clauses of Regulations 7 and 8 of the 

 Regulations are mandatory and that recognition can be granted 


 81 8

 to an institution intending to undertake teacher training course 

 only if the mandatory conditions are fulfilled. The High Court 

 also held that the examining body cannot grant affiliation to 

 any institution unless it is recognized by the NCTE. The High 

 Court highlighted the distinction between refusal to grant 

 recognition under Section 14(3)(b) and withdrawal of the 

 recognition under Section 17 and held that any person 

 aggrieved by the decision of the competent authority refusing to 

 grant recognition or to withdraw the recognition already granted 

 is entitled to avail remedy of appeal. In our view, the 

 conclusions recorded by the High Court and the directions 

 contained in the impugned order are of general application and 

 do not target any particular college or institution. Therefore, 

 the appellants cannot be heard to make a grievance that the 

 impugned order is violative of the rules of natural justice. 20. We shall now examine whether the State Government has 

 any say in the matter of grant of recognition to the private 

 institutions desirous of conducting teacher training courses. In 

 this context, it will be appropriate to notice Regulation 7(2) and 

 (3) of the 2005 and 2007 Regulations, which lay down that a 

 copy of the application form submitted by the institution(s) 


 82 8

shall be sent by the office of the Regional Committee to the 

State Government/Union Territory Administration concerned 

and the latter shall furnish its recommendations within 60 days 

from receipt of the copy of the application. If the State 

Government/Union Territory Administration does not make 

favourable recommendations, then it is required to provide 

detailed reasons/grounds with necessary statistics. While 

deciding the application made for recognition, the Regional 

Committee is duty bound to consider the recommendations of 

the State Government / UT Administration. The last portion of Regulation 7(3) contains a deeming provision and lays down 

that if no communication is received from the State 

Government/Union Territory Administration within 60 days, 

then it shall be presumed that the concerned State 

Government/Union Territory Administration has no 

recommendation to make. The rationale of these provisions is 

discernable from the guidelines issued by the NCTE vide letter 

dated 2.2.1996, the relevant portions of which are extracted 

below: 83 8

assessed need for trained teachers. This need should 

take into consideration the supply of trained teachers 

from existing institutions, the requirement of such 

teachers in relation to enrolment projections at various 

stages, the attrition rates among trained teachers due 

to superannuation, change of occupation, death, etc. 

and the number of trained teachers on the live register 

of the employment exchanges seeking employment and 

the possibility of their deployment. The States having 

more than the required number of trained teachers 

may not encourage opening of new institutions for 

teacher education or to increase the intake. 2. The States having shortage of trained teachers may 

encourage establishment of new institutions for 

teacher education and to increase intake capacity for 

various levels of teacher education institutions keeping 

in view the requirements of teachers estimated for the 

next 10-15 years. 3. Preference might be given to institutions which tend 

to emphasise the preparation of teachers for subjects 

(such as Science, Mathematics, English, etc.) for which 

trained teachers have been in short supply in relation 

to requirement of schools. 4. Apart from the usual courses for teacher 

preparation, institutions which propose to concern 

themselves with new emerging specialities (e.g. 

computer education, use of electronic media, guidance 

and counselling, etc.) should receive priority. 

Provisions for these should, however, be made only 

after ensuring that requisite manpower, equipment 

and infrastructure are available. These considerations 

will also be kept in view by the institution intending to 

provide for optional subjects to be chosen by students 

such as guidance and counselling, special education, 

etc. 5. With a view to ensuring supply of qualified and 

trained teachers for such specialities such as 


 84 8

education of the disabled, non-formal education, 

education of adults, pre-school education, vocational 

education, etc. special efforts and incentives may be 

provided to motivate private managements/voluntary 

organisations for establishment of institutions, which 

lay emphasis on these areas. 6. With a view to promoting professional commitment 

among prospective teachers, institutions which can 

ensure adequate residential facilities for the Principal 

and staff of the institutions as well as hostel facilities 

for a substantial proportion of its enrolment should be 

encouraged. 7. Considering that certain areas (tribal, hilly regions, 

etc.) have found it difficult to attain qualified and 

trained teachers, it would be desirable to encourage 

establishment of training institutions in those areas. 8. Institutions should be allowed to come into 

existence only if the sponsors are able to ensure that 

they have adequate material and manpower resources 

in terms, for instance, of qualified teachers and other 

staff, adequate buildings and other infrastructure 

(laboratory, library, etc.), a reserve fund and operating 

funds to meet the day-to-day requirements of the 

institutions, including payment of salaries, provision 

of equipment, etc. Laboratories, teaching science 

methodologies and practicals should have adequate 

gas plants, proper fittings and regular supply of water, 

electricity, etc. They should also have adequate 

arrangements. Capabilities of the institution for 

fulfilling norms prepared by NCTE may be kept in 

view. 9. In the establishment of an institution preference 

needs to be given to locations which have a large 

catchment area in terms of schools of different levels 

where student teachers can be exposed to 

demonstration lessons and undertake practice 

teaching. A training institution which has a 


 85 8

 demonstration school where innovative and 

 experimental approaches can be demonstrated could 

 be given preference." 21. The question whether the State Government has any role in 

 the matter of grant of recognition to the private institutions who 

 want to conduct teacher training course was considered in St. 

 Johns Teachers Training Institute v. Regional Director, NCTE (2003) 3 SCC 321. The Court noticed Section 14(3) of the 1993 

 Act and Regulation 5(e) and (f) of the 2002 Regulations and 

 observed: (emphasis supplied)

While rejecting the plea that no guidelines had been laid down for 

the State Government to make recommendations in terms of the 

relevant Regulations, the Court referred to guidelines dated 

2.2.1996 issued by the NCTE to the State Governments and 

observed: 22. In Government of Andhra Pradesh v. J.B. Educational Society (2005) 3 SCC 212, this Court considered the question whether 


 88 8

the provision contained in Section 20(3)(a)(i) of the Andhra 

Pradesh Education Act, 1982 under which obtaining of 

permission of the State Government was made sine qua non for 

establishing an institution for technical education was ultra 

vires the provisions of the All India Council for Technical 

Education Act, 1987 and the Regulations framed thereunder. 

While rejecting the challenge, this Court referred to Articles 

245 , 246 and 254(2) and Entries 66 of List I and 25 of List III of 

the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and observed: 89 8

would not be justified in granting permission to one 

more college in that locality. Entry 25 of the 

Concurrent List gives power to the State Legislature 

to make laws regarding education, including 

technical education. Of course, this is subject to the 

provisions of Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I. 

Entry 66 of List I to which the legislative source is 

traced for the AICTE Act , deals with the general 

power of Parliament for coordination, determination 

of standards in institutions for higher education or 

research and scientific and technical educational 

institutions and Entry 65 deals with the union 

agencies and institutions for professional, vocational 

and technical training, including the training of 

police officers, etc. The State has certainly the 

legislative competence to pass the legislation in 

respect of education including technical education 

and Section 20 of the Act is intended for general 

welfare of the citizens of the State and also in 

discharge of the constitutional duty enumerated 

under Article 41 of the Constitution. The general survey in various fields of technical 

education contemplated under Section 10(1)(a) of the 

AICTE Act is not pertaining to the educational needs 

of any particular area in a State. It is a general 

supervisory survey to be conducted by the AICTE 

Council, for example, if any IIT is to be established in 

a particular region, a general survey could be 

conducted and the Council can very much conduct a 

survey regarding the location of that institution and 

collect data of all related matters. But as regards 

whether a particular educational institution is to be 

established in a particular area in a State, the State 

alone would be competent to say as to where that 

institution should be established. Section 20 of the 

A.P. Act and Section 10 of the Central Act operate in 

different fields and we do not see any repugnancy 

between the two provisions." 90 9 23. In State of Maharashtra v. Sant Dnyaneshwar Shikshan 

 Shastra Mahavidyalaya (supra), this Court considered the 

 provisions of the 1993 Act and the 2002 Regulations and held: The Court also observed that it is for the NCTE to deal with 

applications for establishing new B.Ed. colleges or allowing any 

increase in intake capacity keeping in view the 1993 Act and it is 

neither open to the State Government nor to a university to 

consider the local conditions or apply State policy for refusing 

such permission. The Court also referred to the earlier judgment 

in St. Johns Teachers Training Institute v. Regional Director , 


 91 9 NCTE (supra) and observed that once the decision is taken by 

NCTE, it has to be implemented by all authorities in the light of 

the provisions of the 1993 Act and the law declared by this Court. 24. Recently, the same question was considered in National 

 Council for Teacher Education v. Shri Shyam Shiksha 

 Prashikshan Sansthan (2011) 3 SCC 238. After noticing the 

 guidelines issued by the NCTE on 2.2.2006 and various 

 judgments including those referred to hereinabove, this Court 

 observed: 25. The above survey of precedents makes it clear that under Regulation 7(2) and (3), the State Government/Union Territory 

 Administration is entitled to make recommendations on the 

 application made for grant of recognition and the same are 

 required to be considered by the concerned Regional Committee 

 before taking a final decision on the application. 26. Learned counsel for the appellants did not seriously contest 

 the position that the provisions contained in Sections 14(3) and 15(3) read with Regulation 7(2) , (3),(4), (5) and (9) are 

 mandatory and the Regional Committee cannot grant 

 recognition unless it is satisfied that the applicant has fulfilled 


 93 9

 the mandatory conditions prescribed in the 1993 Act and the 

 Regulations. They also did not dispute that in view of Section 

 16 , examining body cannot grant affiliation, whether provisional 

 or permanent to any institution or hold examination for the 

 courses of training conducted by a recognized institution unless 

 the institution concerned has obtained recognition under Section 14 or permission for a course or training under Section 15. What needs to be emphasised is that no 

 recognition/permission can be granted to any institution 

 desirous of conducting teacher training course unless the 

 mandatory conditions enshrined in Sections 14(3) or 15(3) read 

 with the relevant clauses of Regulations 7 and 8 are fulfilled 

 and that in view of the negative mandate contained in Section 

 17A read with Regulation 8(10) , no institution can admit any 

 student unless it has obtained unconditional recognition from 

 the Regional Committee and affiliation from the examining 

 body. 27. The next issue which requires examination is, whether the 

 private institutions could have made admissions de hors the 

 entrance examination conducted by the State Government. The 

 High Court has answered this question in the negative by 


 94 9

 relying upon the admission procedure contained in para 3.3 of 

 Appendix-I, which contains the Norms and Standards for 

 Secondary Teachers Education Programme. The appellants have 

 not questioned the vires of the admission procedure. Therefore, 

 they cannot contend that they were entitled to admit students 

 de hors the list prepared on the basis of entrance examination 

 conducted under the directions of the State Government. 28. The question which remains to be considered is, whether the 

 students who had taken admission in unrecognized institutions 

 or the institutions which had not been granted affiliation by the 

 examining body have the right to appear in the examination and 

 whether the Court can issue a mandamus for declaration of the 

 result of such students simply because they were allowed to 

 provisionally appear in the examination in compliance of the 

 interim orders passed by the High Court and/or this Court. An 

 ancillary question, which would require consideration is, 

 whether the students who had not completed the requirement 

 of minimum teaching days were entitled to appear in the 

 examination and a direction can be given for declaration of their 

 result. 95 9 29. A somewhat similar question was considered in A.P. Christians 

 Medical Educational Society v. Government of Andhra Pradesh (1986) 2 SCC 667. In that case, one Professor C.A. Adams, who 

 was signatory to the Memorandum of Association of the 

 appellant-society created fake documents for starting a medical 

 college for Christian students at Vikarabad in Rangareddy 

 district of Andhra Pradesh. When the appellant sought 

 affiliation with Osmania University, the latter made some 

 queries and asked for certain documents. The appellant did not 

 furnish the requisite information and documents. In the 

 meanwhile, 60 students were admitted in the first year MBBS 

 course. In July 1985, the Government of Andhra Pradesh 

 informed the appellant that permission to start a private 

 medical college was not granted in view of the policy of the 

 Government of India and Medical Council of India. The 

 appellant then filed a writ petition before the High Court, which 

 was dismissed in limine by a speaking order. Before this Court, 

 it was contended that the appellant was a minority institution 

 and, as such, it was not required to take permission for starting 

 a medical college. This Court negatived the appellant's plea and 

 confirmed the order passed by the High Court. While dealing 


 96 9

 with the question, whether the students who had already been 

 admitted by the appellant should be allowed to participate in 

 the examination conducted by the University, this Court 

 observed: (emphasis supplied) 30. In N.M. Nageshwaramma v. State of Andhra Pradesh , (1986) 

 Supp. SCC 166, this Court considered the question whether the 

 students admitted by the private teacher training institutes 

 which had not been granted permission and recognition under 

 the Andhra Pradesh Education Act, 1982 were entitled to 

 appear in the examination and answered the same in the 

 following words: (emphasis supplied) 31. In State of Maharashtra v. Vikas Sahebrao Roundale (supra), 

 this Court noted that there was mushroom growth of ill-

 equipped, under-staffed and unrecognised educational 

 institutions in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu and 

 Maharashtra and that an interim order was passed by the High 

 Court for allowing the students to appear in the examination 

 and proceeded to observe: 32. In St. Johns' Teachers Training Institute (for Women), Madurai 

 v. State of Tamil Nadu (supra), this Court adversely commented 

 upon the practice of passing interim orders like the one passed 

 by the learned Single Judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court 

 in some of these cases, referred to the judgment in Christians 

 Medical Educational Society v. Government of Andhra Pradesh (supra) and observed: 33. As a sequel to the above discussion, we hold that the 

 impugned orders do not suffer from any legal infirmity 

 warranting interference by this Court. We also reiterate that: (iii) While granting recognition, the Regional Committees are 

 required to give due weightage to the recommendations 

 made by the State Government/UT Administration and 

 keep in view the observations made by this Court in St. 

 Johns Teachers Training Institute v. Regional Director, 

 NCTE (2003) 3 SCC 321 and National Council for 

 Teacher Education v. Shri Shyam Shiksha Prashikshan 

 Sansthan, which have been extracted in the earlier part 

 of this judgment. (iv) The recognition granted by the Regional Committees 

 under Section 14(3)(a) of the 1993 Act read with 

 Regulations 7 and 8 of the Regulations and permission 

 granted under Section 15(3)(a) read with the relevant 

 Regulations shall operate prospectively, i.e., from the 

 date of communication of the order of recognition or 

 permission, as the case may be. (v) The recognition can be refused by the Regional Committee 

 under Section 14(3)(b) , in the first instance, when an 

 application for recognition is made by an institution. 

 Likewise, permission can be refused under Section 15(3) (b). (vi) If the recognition is refused under Section 14(3)(b) after 

 affording reasonable opportunity to the applicant to 

 make a written representation, the concerned 


 101 1

 institution is required to discontinue the course or 

 training from the end of the academic session next 

 following the date of receipt of the order. (vii) Once the recognition is granted, the same can be 

 withdrawn only under Section 17(1) if there is a 

 contravention of the provisions of the Act or the Rules, 

 or the Regulations, or orders made therein, or any 

 condition subject to which recognition was granted 

 under Section 14(3)(a) or permission was granted under Section 15(3)(a) . (viii) The withdrawal of recognition becomes effective from 

 the end of the academic session next following the date 

 of communication of the order of withdrawal. (ix) Once the recognition is withdrawn under Section 17(1) , 

 the concerned institution is required to discontinue the 

 course or training in teacher education and the 

 examining body is obliged to cancel the affiliation. The 

 effect of withdrawal of the recognition is that the 

 qualification in teacher education obtained pursuant to 

 the course or training undertaken at such institution is 

 not to be treated as valid qualification for the purpose of 

 employment under the Central Government, any State 

 Government or University or in any educational body 

 aided by the Central or the State Government. (x) In view of the mandate of Section 16 , no examining body, as 

 defined in Section 2(d) of the 1993 Act, shall grant 


 102 1

 affiliation unless the applicant has obtained recognition 

 from the Regional Committee under Section 14 or 

 permission for starting a new course or training under Section 15 . (xi) While granting affiliation, the examining body shall be 

 free to demand rigorous compliance of the conditions 

 contained in the statute like the University Act or the 

 State Education Board Act under which it was 

 established or the guidelines / norms which may have 

 been laid down by the concerned examining body. (xii) No institution shall admit any student to a teacher 

 training course or programme unless it has obtained 

 recognition under Section 14 or permission under 

 Section 15, as the case may be. (xiii) While making admissions, every recognised institution 

 is duty bound to strictly adhere to para 3.1 to 3.3 of the 

 Norms and Standards for Secondary/Pre-School 

 Teacher Education Programme contained in Appendix-1 

 to the Regulations. (xiv) If any institution admits any student in violation of the 

 Norms and Standards laid down by the NCTE, then the 

 Regional Committee shall initiate action for withdrawal 

 of the recognition of such institution and pass 

 appropriate order after complying with the rules of 

 natural justice. 103 1 (xv) The students admitted by unrecognised institution and 

 institutions which are not affiliated to any examining 

 body are not entitled to appear in the examination 

 conducted by the examining body or any other 

 authorised agency. (xvi) The students admitted by the recognised institutions 

 otherwise than through the entrance/eligibility test 

 conducted in accordance with the admission procedure 

 contained in para 3.3 of Appendix-1 of the Regulations 

 are also not entitled to appear in the examination 

 conducted by the examining body or any other 

 authorised agency. (xvii) The NCTE shall issue direction for mandatory 

 inspection of recognised institutions on periodical basis 

 and all the Regional Committees are duty bound to take 

 action in accordance with those directions.

(xviii) In future, the High Courts shall not entertain prayer for 

 interim relief by unrecognised institutions and the 

 institutions which have not been granted affiliation by 

 the examining body and/or the students admitted by 

 such institutions for permission to appear in the 

 examination or for declaration of the result of 

 examination. This would also apply to the recognised 

 institutions if they admit students otherwise than in 

 accordance with the procedure contained in Appendix-1 

 of the Regulations. 104 1 34. So far as these appeals are concerned, we deem it proper to give 

 the following directions: 105 1 (iii) The directions contained in the preceding clause shall 

 not be used for dealing with the admissions made for 

 the sessions 2005-2006, 2006-2007 or 2008-2009. The 

 admissions made for those years shall be dealt with by 

 the Western Regional Committee and the concerned 

 examining body in accordance with the relevant 

 statutory provisions. (iv) Any institution aggrieved by the decision of the Western 

 Regional Committee to reject the application for 

 recognition or for permission to start a new course or 

 training or withdrawal of recognition under Section 17 shall be free to avail remedy of appeal under Section 18 of the 1993 Act. If any such appeal is filed by the 

 aggrieved party within 30 days from today, then the 

 Appellate Authority shall entertain and decide the same 

 on merits. (v) If the Western Regional Committee has taken any action in 

 furtherance of the directions given by the High Court, 

 then the aggrieved person shall be entitled to challenge 

 the same by availing remedy of appeal under Section 18 of the 1993 Act. 35. Subject to the above observations and directions, the appeals 

 are dismissed. The parties are left to bear their own costs. ........................................J.

 [G.S. Singhvi]


 106 1

 ........................................J.

 [Asok Kumar Ganguly]

New Delhi,

January 6, 2012.