On 18th June 2022 a lady by the name Ms. Neha Verma called to say that she is calling from naukri.com regarding a job opening with HDFC bank. She insisted on making a payment of rs.1500/- in order to receive a written test link and interview call. She sends me payment details on WhatsApp - a QR code and a PNB account no. I sensed this was fraud because Naukri claims that they do not charge for sloting interviews, tests etc. so I did not respond or make any payments. On 22nd June 2022 I receive a challan on my WhatsApp of rs, 10, 438 asking me to pay upfront and threatening to block my CV on Naukri. I was also called by Ms. Kavya Sharma, claiming to be from the legal department, to payup the challan or visit court to face legal action. There were in total 6 calls from both the above mentioned names threatening me to face legal action. I am shocked to understand this behaviour. How can such threatening calls be made? In the present days there are many such fake calls that dupe people. So I just avoided making any payments or responding to any calls. They claim that I have wasted the Company's time & hence a legal notice is being sent. How is this justifiable when I did not respond in the first instance itself? There are many calls from recruiters of different job portals. No one threatens that I must go for the job option that I am being offered. Its my decision whether I want the job or not. Kindly help as this is very disturbing and also tarnishing the image of well known job portal Naukri.com I received the calls from the following numbers: - [protected] (Ms. Kavya Sharma) [protected] (Ms. Neha Verma) Please find below the message which I received on WhatsApp, for your reference:- Dear candidate, Miss Sweety Menon Your file forward in legal department. You cannot apply to any job 7 years in MNC'S company, And if you did not pay the penalty then your documents will be blocked for 7 years.court provide legal notice with chalan, and you have to pay chalan in the court with statement.naukri.com Dear candidate, your chalan no. 052/7351/2022 QC(cash no. PB12) and chalan amount is Rs.10, 438 paid in court within 7 officer team visit your home. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)