ALOK ARADHE, J. These appeals call in question the correctness of orders

 dated 06.03.2018 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court

 of Bombay in Letters Patent Appeals, namely Appeal No(s). 320

 and 372 of 2015. By the aforesaid orders, the High Court has

 stayed two orders passed by the learned Single Judge dated

 18.12.2014 passed in chamber summons no.243 of 2014 and

 chamber summons (L) no.1297 of 2013 in Execution Application

 (L) No. 1036 of 2013. The relevant facts for deciding these appeals Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by Deepak Guglani Date: 2025.11.20 13:26:50 IST briefly stated are as under. Reason: 1 THE ARBITRAL AWARD TRAVELS ACROSS JURISDICTIONS: - EXECUTION PROCEEDING IN BOMBAY: - THE ORDERS: - SUBMISSIONS: - 12. On the other hand, learned Senior Counsel for the

Respondents contended that the respondents are strangers to the

arbitration proceeding and the arbitral award dated 12.07.2010,

and they do not have locus to challenge the same under the Act,

as the Act envisages the challenge to the arbitral award in the

manner indicated, therein by a party. It is, therefore, contended

that the Letters Patent Appeals filed by the respondents are 8 maintainable. It is also pointed out that, while deciding the

chamber summons, the learned Single Judge has held that the

arbitral award (i) is not without jurisdiction, (ii) not accentuated

by fraud, (iii) not barred by limitation and (iv) is not against the

public policy. It is further contended that the learned Single

Judge ought to have appreciated that the arbitral award deals

with properties of which the respondents are either the owners or

have substantial interest. It is, therefore, urged that appeals are

liable to be dismissed. ANALYSIS: - 13. We have considered the rival submissions and have perused

the record. Before proceeding further, it is apposite to take note of

the relevant statutory provision, namely Order 21 Rule 22, which

is extracted below for the facility of reference. “22. Notice to show cause against
 execution in certain cases.—
 (1) Where an application for execution is
 made— (a) more than [two years] after the
 date of the decree, or (b) against the legal representative of
 a party to the decree [or where an
 application is made for execution of 9 a decree filed under the provisions of
 section 44A], [or] (c) against the assignee or receiver in
 insolvency, where the party to the
 decree has been adjudged to be an
 insolvent,
the Court executing the decree shall
issue a notice to the person against
whom execution is applied for requiring
him to show cause, on a date to be fixed,
why the decree should not be executed
against him: 14. Thus Order 21 Rule 22 mandates that where execution is

sought (a) more than two years after the decree or (b) against the

legal representative of judgment debtor or (c) against the assignee

or receiver in insolvency, where party to the decree has been

adjudged to be an insolvent, the executing court shall issue

notice to the person against whom execution is sought, requiring

him to show cause, why the decree should not be executed. 15. The use of word ‘shall’ in Order 21 Rule 22 (1) admits of no

ambiguity and the executing court is under an obligation to issue

notice to the person against whom a decree is sought to be

executed in the circumstances enumerated therein. The mandate

of Order 21 Rule 22 (1) stands on two independent and mutually

reinforcing foundations (i) the statutory compulsion-the use of

word ‘shall’ in the provision leaves no discretion to the executing

court in the circumstances enumerated therein, (ii) it

incorporates the principles of natural justice as the legal

representative of the deceased cannot be proceeded unless he is

given an opportunity to contest the execution. Thus, the

requirement of notice under Order 21 Rule 22 (1) to the persons

enumerated therein is not a mere procedural courtesy but is the 11 very foundation of the jurisdiction when the execution is sought

against the estate of the deceased judgment debtor. The

foundation of this requirement was laid down by the Privy

Council in Raghunath Das v. Sundardas Khetri12 , wherein it

was held that notice under Section 248 of the Old Code,

(equivalent to Order 21 Rule 22) is a condition precedent to

jurisdiction of the Court to proceed with execution against the

legal representative of a deceased judgment debtor. 16. Now, we may advert to Order 21 Rule 23 of the CPC which

reads as under: (2) Where such person offers any
 objection to the execution of the decree,
 the Court shall consider such objection
 and make such order as it thinks fit. 17. The aforesaid rule prescribes the procedure after issue of

notice. Order 21 Rule 23 (1) provides that where a person to

whom notice is issued under Rule 22 does not appear or does not 12 AIR 1914 PC 129 12 show cause to the satisfaction of the Court why the decree should

not be executed, the Court shall order the decree to be executed.

Order 21 Rule 23 (2) provides that where any person offers any

objection to the execution of the decree the court shall consider

such objection and shall make such order as it thinks fit.

APPLICATION OF AFORESAID PROVISIONS TO THE PRESENT
CASE: - 18. In the backdrop of relevant statutory provisions, we may

advert to the facts of the cases in hand. Admittedly, the father of

the appellant had executed a Will on 16.09.1994 in favour of his

brother. From perusal of the cause title of the execution

proceeding, it is axiomatic that the uncle was arrayed in

execution proceedings as legal representative/executor of the Will

dated 16.09.1994 of the father and not in his individual capacity.

The respondents, therefore, cannot be treated as third party to

the arbitral award. 19. The Act is a self-contained code and is founded upon

principles of party autonomy, expedition and finality. The

legislative design of the Act restricts judicial interference. The

orders of the learned Single Judge dated 18.12.2014, were passed 13 in course of execution of arbitral award and are, therefore,

traceable to the Act and not to CPC . The execution of the arbitral

award is sought against the respondents in their capacity as

executors of the aforesaid Will. The respondents step into the

shoes of judgment debtor of the limited purpose of the execution.

The Letters Patent Appeals filed by respondents were therefore

not maintainable. The Division Bench of the High Court erred in

admitting the appeals subject to maintainability of the same and

in admitting the appeals without assigning any reasons. 20. A careful scrutiny of the order dated 18.12.2014 passed in

chamber summons no.243 of 2014, reveals that the learned

Single Judge has held that the issue with regard to attachment of

properties shall be dealt with at an appropriate time, upon an

application made in accordance with law. It has further been held

that a notice under Order 21 Rule 22 (1) of the CPC to proceed in

execution of the arbitral award is granted. 21. Thus, it is axiomatic that the notice under Order 21 Rule

22 (1) of the CPC is yet to be issued to the respondents. Once a

notice is issued to the respondents, it is open for them to raise an

objection to the execution of the arbitral award under Order 21 14 Rule 23(2) of the CPC . However, we find that the learned Single

Judge while deciding the chamber summons (L) No.1297 of 2013,

has made observations/findings though not determinative, have

the potential to prejudice the respondents in their objections

under Order 21 Rule 23 (2) of the CPC , which they are statutorily

entitled to raise on receipt of notice. The respondents, therefore,

must be placed in the position, the law intended them to occupy

i.e. the legal representatives are entitled to be heard before their

estate is saddled with execution. CONCLUSION: - 23. The appeals are accordingly disposed of on above terms. ……………….……………J.
 [SANJAY KUMAR]

 ..…….…………………….J.
 [ALOK ARADHE]

NEW DELHI; NOVEMBER 20, 2025. 16