R.P. Garg, Vice President 1. The cross-appeals and cross-objection are against the order of the CIT(A) for asst. yr. 1996-97. For the sake of convenience, they are being disposed of by this common order. 2. In the assessee's appeal, the first dispute is with regard to the disallowance of loss arising on account of security transaction with Punjab National bank--Rs. 2,43,21.86,000 and Rs. 44,85,52,158 and with State Bank of Patiala aggregating to Rs. 2,88,07,38,158. The assessee is a scheduled bank and 100 per cent subsidiary of State Bank of India. The business of the assessee is banking which included earning of interest and other income, commission on LCs and guarantees, overdue demand bills purchased, discount on various facilities, exchange, brokerage and incidental activities. 3. The loss of Rs. 2,43,21,56,000 fell upon the assessee by virtue of judgment and decree dt. 11th March, 1996 of the Special Court disallowed by AO as having arisen to the bank as intermediatory liability and at the stage of contingency. The assessee submitted that the loss in question had arisen in the course of regular business transaction of banking for purchase and sale of securities; that the loss of Rs. 243.21 crores had arisen in the course of transaction with PNB in view of the bank's inability to deliver the securities in question to the purchaser due to reasons beyond its control; the purchaser bank, i.e., PNB filed a suit against the bank before the Special Court under Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Securities Transactions) Act, 1992 . By judgment and decree dt. 11th March, 1996, the Special Court decided the issue against the assessee and in favour of the bank decreeing the aforesaid amount. Though the assessee had preferred appeal to the Supreme Court against the judgment, the assessee had already admitted its liability to PNB to the tune of Rs. 182 crores being aggregate of Rs. 102.80 crores, the principal amount of units involved and Rs. 79.20 crores being approximate amount of interest at the rate of 17.5 per cent till the date of hearing before the Supreme Court and that vide an interim order passed on 8th May, 1996 the Supreme Court has directed the bank to make the payment/deliver securities of the aggregate value of Rs. 212 crores to PNB, which directions have been complied with. On complying with such directions only the appeal of the assessee was admitted against the judgment and decree of the Special Court of course without in any way varying the judgment and decree of the Special Court. Such liability, according to the assessee, had legally crystallised and arisen by virtue of Special Court judgment dt. 11th March, 1996 and, therefore, admissible as business loss and, consequently cannot be said to be intermediatory liability at the stage of contingency. The assessee submitted that the disputed amount of such liability in question to be adjudicated by the Supreme Court was only with regard to the liability of Rs. 61.23 crores only being the excess of the monetary value of the judgment and decree of the Special Court (Rs. 243.21 crores) over the amount of liability (Rs. 182 crores) admitted by the assessee. The AO however, did not accept the contention of the assessee. According to him, that the appeal of the assessee against the order of the Special Court had been admitted and it is clear that the liability was still at the stage of contingency. 4. Another part of the loss claimed is of Rs. 44.85 crores, in respect of security transactions with State Bank of Patiala, (hereinafter referred to as SBP). The assessee claimed that it was beyond its control to deliver the securities sold to SBP and since SBP did not resort to litigation and the matter was settled in March, 1996, by mutual negotiations the liability had arisen. The payment was made after the current financial year on 20th June, 1996. Correspondence regarding the same had also been filed on going through which the AO however noted that the correspondence related to June and July, 1996 and in one of the letters dt. 11th June, 1996 from SBP to assessee, the fact regarding agreeing of board of directors of the SBP held on 28th May, 1996 at Mumbai has been stated. According to the said letter, SBP decided for the payment of interest on transactions of Rs. 27.09 crores for purchase of 2 crores units. Noticing the fact that the assessee-bank has no evidence in the form of settlement deed between SBP and the assessee, he rejected the claim of the assessee. AO had also disallowed both the losses by also holding these to be a speculative loss as per the provisions of Section 43(5) of the Act. 5. The CIT(A) upheld the disallowance by observing in paras 24 to 33 of his order as under : (Emphasis, italicized in print, supplied) 6. The assessee is in appeal against the disallowance of loss as an admissible deduction whereas the Revenue filed cross-objection against the finding of the CIT(A) that it was not a loss of speculative transactions. 7. The learned counsel for the assessee submitted that the transactions were entered into in the normal course of its business of dealing in securities. During the financial year 1991-92 relevant to asst. yr. 1992-93, the bank undertook certain back to back transactions, i.e., transactions for simultaneous purchase and sale of same number of identical securities in certain securities during September to November, 1991. The bank has earned profits of Rs. 2,62,500 and had offered the same as 'business profit' during the asst. yr. 1992-93 which has been duly taxed. However, the bank could not effect physical delivery of securities sold by it for the reasons beyond its control, as it could not obtain physical delivery of securities purchased by it from counter party banks and financial institutions. It had thus committed a breach of contract for which it had to pay damages and compensation, Therefore, the loss had occurred in the course of carrying on the business by the assessee and is accordingly allowable as a business deduction. 7.1 It is further submitted that the bank is maintaining its accounts mainly on the basis of 'mercantile system of accounting' except in relation to few items (expenditure and income), as per established practice in the field of accountancy, where cash system is followed. He referred to printed accounts and Annex. B to the tax audit report where the method of accounting of the bank is described by the statutory auditors. The system of accounting as is followed by the bank is technically known as 'hybrid system of accounting' which incorporates the basic features of the 'cash system' and the 'mercantile system' as stated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. A. Krishnaswami Mudaliar and Ors. (1964) 53 ITR 122 (SC). The learned counsel for the assessee also placed reliance on the decisions in the cases of Lord's Dairy Farm Ltd. v. CIT (1955) 27 ITR 700 (Bom); Jethabhai Hirji & Jethabhai Ramdas v. CIT (1979) 120 ITR 792 (Bom); Sarangpur. Cotton Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. C]T (1983) 143 ITR 166 (Guj); Badridas Daga v. CIT ( 1958) 34 ITR 10 (SC) and Anamalai Timber Trust Ltd. v. CIT (1963) 47 ITR 814 (Ker). 7.2 The learned counsel further submitted that the bank has suffered loss of Rs. 2,88,07,38,158 during the year under consideration by virtue of judgment and decree dt. 11th March, 1996 of the Special Court constituted under Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Security Transactions) Act, 1992 , in suit filed by PNB against the bank and also by virtue of settlement with SBP. The assessee-bank claimed such aggregate loss of Rs. 2,88,07,38,158 being admissible business loss of the bank for the present year. It was also submitted by the learned counsel that the loss of Rs. 243.21 crores having arisen to the bank in the course of its transactions with the PNB on account of its inability to deliver the securities in question, the judgment and decree dt. 11th March, 1996 of the Special Court crystallised the liability/loss; that in relation to these security transactions a suit was filed by PNB which was contested by the bank and on 11th March, 1996 a decree was passed against the bank by Special Court and thus it resulted in crystallised liability resulting into loss in question. He relied upon the decisions in the cases of Laxmi Ginning & Oil Mills v. CIT (1971) 82 ITR 958 (P&H); Radhakrishna Oil Mills v. ITO (1986) 19 ITD 587 (Coch); Cama Motors (P) Ltd. v. IAC (1987) 29 TTJ (And) 452 : (1987) 21 ITD 640 (And); CIT v. Swadeshi Cotton & Flour Mills (P) Ltd. (1964) 53 ITR 134 (SC); and Kedarnath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. CIT (1971) 82 ITR 363 (SC). 7.3 The learned counsel also submitted the details of further payments, etc., made by the assessee-bank after filing appeal to the Supreme Court, and submitted that the Supreme Court directed payment to the tune of Rs. 212 crores (Rs. 182 crores for cost of units and the difference between the original cost and the market price on the date of breach plus a further sum of Rs. 30 crores for balance claim) to PNB and that the bank has already complied with the directions of Supreme Court and the same has also been taken note of by the AO without appreciating the import of the same. The Supreme Court finally decided the matter modifying the compensation at Rs. 212 crores on 26th April, 2001, and according to it, it has a relation back to the order of the Special Court dt. 11th March, 1996 by the theory of relation back as appeal is a continuation of the original suit. He referred to decision of Federal Court in the case of Raja Bahadur Kamaksya Narain Singh of Ramgarh v. CIT (1947) 15 ITR 311 (FC) and of Rajasthan High Court in Assam Roller Flour Mills v. CIT (1997) 227 ITR 43 (Raj) '
 

7.4 So far as the transaction with SBP is concerned, the learned counsel submitted the loss/liability had also arisen in the year in question on account of amicable settlement with the said bank on 30th March, 1996 a date which falls in the accounting year under consideration. 7.5 The learned counsel also referred to order of CIT(A) whereby disallowance of loss arising on account of dealing in security transactions amounting to Rs. 2,88,07,38,158 is confirmed by giving one of the principal reasons that the bank had succeeded against PNB. Shri Harshad Mehta has not denied his liability to deliver the securities. The facts are taken as similar in the case of 'claims' and 'counter claims' and it is observed that ultimately after all the cases are finally decided, the payables to parties may match with the receivables from counter parties, resulting in, possibly, no liability for the bank. It is, therefore, concluded that overall view should be taken of the liability of the appellant once all the cases are decided. The learned counsel submitted that it is settled law that mere 'claim' will not tantamount to 'accrual' of any income. He relied upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of E.D. Sassoon & Co. Ltd. v. CIT (1954) 26 ITR 27 (SC). He also placed reliance on the decisions, on accrual of income; namely; Union of India and Anr. v. J.K. Synthetics Ltd. (1993) 199 ITR 14 (SC); CIT v. Bharat Iron & Steel Industries (1993) 199 ITR 67 (Guj)(FB); Meghdoot Laminart (P) Ltd. v. Rajiv Sinha or His Successor in office of the Dy. CIT (1999) 238 ITR 918 (Guj); CIT v. Hindustan Housing & Land Development Trust Ltd. (1986) 161 ITR 524 (SC); CIT v. Swadeshi Cotton & Flour Mills (P) Ltd. (supra); and E.D. Sassoon & Co. Ltd. (supra). The learned counsel for the assessee submitted that the approach of the Court has to be different while dealing with a question of taxing positive income on the ground that it has accrued or has arisen to the assessee concerned and incurring a liability resulting in claim of loss in terms of an enfoceable decree. He further submitted that the above judgments are cited for limited purpose to canvass that mere counter claim or even preliminary decree which is sub judice can never tantamount to 'income earned' by the assessee. Such claim in absence of finally enforceable decree can never be taken into account in the relevant year whereas the assessee-bank has incurred loss by virtue of enforceable decree passed against it by competent Court irrespective of the fact that the appeal is pending in appellate Court. The learned counsel further submitted that if the line of reasoning adopted by the CIT(A) at para 11 above is accepted, namely that the loss suffered by the bank can be determined only after all counter claims suit by the bank are finally decided by the Courts and recoveries thereunder effected, then grave injustice will result to the bank, as it can then be contended by the Revenue at that time that the loss on account of the claim on the bank was not suffered in the year in which the counter claim was decreed in favour of the bank. It is submitted that the counter claims are separate transactions and tax treatment thereof will depend on the events connected with those transactions. 8. The learned standing counsel Shri Bhatt, on the other hand, submitted that the liability arising to the assessee is contingent one which has not yet crystallised and, therefore, not deductible in view of the decisions in the cases of Ballal & Padival Tiles v. CIT (1987) 163 ITR 752 (Kar); CIT v. Shewbux Jahurilal (1962) 46 ITR 688 (Cal); CIT v. Phalton Sugar Works Ltd. (1986) 162 ITR 622 (Bom); CIT v. Swadeshi Cotton & Flour Mills (P) Ltd. (supra); CIT v. Hindustan Housing & Land Development Trust Ltd. (supra); Union of India v. J.K. Synthetics Ltd. (supra); CIT v. Bharat Iron & Steel Industries (supra); Alembic Chemical Works Ltd. v. Dy. CIT (2004) 266 ITR 47 (Guj); Topandas Kundanmal v. CIT (1978) 114 ITR 237 (Guj); Addl. CIT v. New Jehangir Vakil Mills Co. Ltd. ( 1979) 117 ITR 849 (Guj) and Navjivan Roller Flour & Pulse Mills Ltd. v. Dy. CIT (2000) 66 TTJ (Ahd) 876 : (2000) 73 ITD 265 (Ahd). He further submitted that apart from the above judgments, the assessee itself did not offer the amount received towards the security transaction for taxation on the ground that the payer bank had filed an appeal and in this connection he drew our attention to the return of income for asst. yrs. 1999-2000 and 2003-04. He further submitted that the transaction was not a business dealing as is evident from the decree of the Special Court and Janki Raman Committee Report. It was the transaction tainted with fraud and, therefore, the effect of the Supreme Court decision in the case of Maddi Venkataraman & Co. (P) Ltd. v. CIT (1998) 229 ITR 534 (SC) is to be seen. 8.1 As regards the other claim of State Bank of Patiala (SBP) of Rs. 44.85 crores, the learned counsel for the Revenue submitted that no evidence has been furnished. The settlement was reached after previous year i.e., on 28th May, 1996; that the payment of Rs. 27.09 crore being principal amount made on 20th June, 1996 and that the interest of Rs. 17.76 crores was paid on 20th July, 1996. According to him the loss has not arisen in the year under consideration and, therefore, the Revenue authorities were right in disallowing the same. 8.2 As regards the cross-objection which is late by more than three years, filed by the Revenue, the learned standing counsel submitted that no prejudice is caused to the assessee; that no new facts are required to be adjudicated and that the issue raised in the cross-objection filed on advice of the counsel and, therefore, the delay should be condoned. On merits the questions raised are (1) that security transactions be treated as speculative within the meaning of IT Act, 1961 ; and (2) Explanation to Section 37(1) of the IT Act, 1961, ought to have been applied by the CIT(A). 9. We have heard the parties and considered the rival submissions. Section 2(24) defines the term 'income' and it includes profits and gains of a business in the income of an assessee. Section 4 is a charging section and it provides for a charge on the total income of an assessee which is to be computed as per Section 5 of the Act. Chapter IV provides for determination of income under various heads and Part D provides for computation of profits and gains of a business or a profession. Section 28 enumerates certain income to be chargeable under the head 'Profits and gains' and Clause (i) thereof, provides 'the profits and gains' of any business or profession which was carried on by the assessee at any time during previous year, is included therein. Section 29 provides for computation of income under Section 28 in accordance with the provisions contained in Sections 30 to 43D of the Act. There are certain specific sections providing for deduction of expenditure from Sections 30 to 36 , Section 37 is a residuary section which provides for such other expenditure which are not described in Sections 30 to 36 and which are not in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenditure and which are laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession. Explanation to Section 37(1) provides that any expenditure incurred by an assessee for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law shall not be deemed to have been incurred for the purpose of business or profession and no deduction or allowance shall be made in respect of such expenditure. 10. There is a distinction between the expenditure and loss. "An expenditure is something or other which the trader pays out"; as observed by Finlay J. in Alien v. Farqusharson Bros. & Co, 17 Tax Cases 59, "I think some sort of volition is indicated". He chooses to pay out some disbursement; it is an expense; it is something "which comes out of his pocket. A loss is something different. That is not a thing which he expends or disburses. That is a thing which, so to speak, comes upon him ab extra." These observations have approval of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. S.C. Kothari (1971) 82 ITR 794 (SC). . 11. An expenditure, not being capital, incurred for the purpose of business or profession and which is not enumerated in Sections 30 to 36 may fall to be deducted under the residuary Section 37 . But business losses though it may fall outside the purview of Sections 30 to 37 are allowable on ordinary commercial principle of computing the profit provided, the loss is of a non-capital nature and it is connected with and is incidental to the trade or business. These are the principles enumerated and affirmed by the Supreme Court in the case of Badridas Daga v. CIT (supra); CIT v. Nainital bank Ltd. (1965) 55 ITR 707 (SC) and in the case of Ramchandar Shivnarayan v. CIT (1978) 111 ITR 263 (SC). 12. A liability to an assessee may either be arising out of contractual obligation or it may arise under a statutory provision. Statutory liability is generally ascertainable and can be determined by applying the provisions of law and could be allowed as a deduction either in the year to which the transaction to which it pertains has occurred, namely, taxable event has happened or it may be allowed in the year in which a demand was raised on the assessee by the statutory authority. It could also be claimed and allowed when it is finally settled by due process of law. The dispute raised by an assessee for its non-levy cannot deter its allowability in any of the three situations. 13. The decision of Kedarnath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. (supra) is an authority for claiming the deduction in the year to which transaction pertains. In that case during the asst. yr. 1955-56 "the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs. 1,49,776 on the basis of sales-tax order determining the sales-tax payable by the sales-tax authorities on the sales made by the assessee during the aforesaid previous year. The claim was made by revising the return consequent to and after the receipt of demand notice. It was disallowed by the AO on two grounds,--(i) that the assessee had disputed the liability to pay the amount and (ii) that no provision in the books of account was made. The Supreme Court allowed the claim of sales-tax liability as it related to the sales made during the previous year relevant to the asst. yr. 1955-56. It observed that "whether the assessee is entitled to a particular deduction or not will depend on the provision of law relating thereto and not on the view which the assessee might take of his rights; nor can the existence or absence of entries in his books of account be decisive or conclusive in the matter. A reference was made of the case of Pope The King Match Factory wherein a demand for excise duty was served on the assessee and though he was objecting to it and seeking to get the order of the Collector of Excise reversed, he debited that amount in his accounts on the last day of his accounting year and claimed that amount as a deductible allowance on the ground that he was keeping his accounts on the mercantile basis. The Madras High Court had no difficulty in holding that the assessee had incurred an enforceable legal liability on and from the date on which he received the Collector's demand for payment and that his endeavour to get out of that liability by preferring appeals could not in any way detract from or retard the efficacy of the liability which had been imposed upon by the competent excise authority. In our judgment , the above decision lays down the law correctly." Similarly in the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Jonnalla Narashimharao & Co. v. CIT (1993) 200 ITR 588 (SC) the liability to pay sales-tax collected by the assessee' in the name of 'Rusum' was held to be allowable in the year in which the sales were effected and the 'Rusum' was collected by the assessee in asst. yr. 1968-69. 14. The decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Bharat Carbon & Ribbon Mfg. Co. (P) Ltd (1999) 239 ITR 505 (SC) is an authority for allowance of deduction for the second situation, i.e., a claim can be made and allowed in the year in which a demand notice is issued, even though the liability pertains to the earlier years and no provision is made in the accounts. Similar are the observations of Madras High Court in CIT v. English Electric Co. of India Ltd. (1997) 225 ITR 970 (Mad). The Gujarat High Court in the case of Saurashtra Cement & Chemical Industries Ltd. v. CIT (1995) 213 ITR 523 (Guj) also observed that "merely because an expense relates to a transaction of an earlier year, it does not become a liability payable in the earlier year, unless it can be said that the liability was determined and crystallised in the year in question on the basis of maintaining accounts on the mercantile basis". The Delhi High Court in the case of CIT v. Jamnadas Ram Krishan (2001) 250 ITR 155 (Del) allowed the claim of sales-tax liability on the basis of demand raised by the sales-tax authorities for the sales made during the years 1972-73 and 1973-74 on the basis of completion of sales-tax assessment for asst. yr. 1978-79. 15. The third situation is found in the case of Buxa Doors Tea Co. India Ltd. v. CIT (1991) 188 ITR 218 (Cal). In this case an assessment was made in 1958 under Assam Taxation (Goods Carried by Road or Inland Waterways) Act, 1954 (superseded by Assam Taxation (Goods Carried by Road or Inland Waterways) Act, 1961]. The revision petition against that order of 1958 was decided by the Commissioner of Taxes, Assam, on 2nd Jan., 1975 finally determining and fixing the liability of the assessee. The claim was made by the assessee for its deduction in asst. yr. 1976-77 and was allowed by the Calcutta High Court in asst. yr. 1976-77 that being the year during the previous year of which the revision order dt. 2nd Jan., 1975 finally quantified and fixed the liability of the assessee under the said Act. In the case of Ruby Mills Ltd. v. ITO (1992) 41 ITD 171 (Bom) the Bombay Bench of the Tribunal have observed with regard to allowability of statutory liability by stating that. "The liability of excise duty arises against the assessee in the year in which chargeable goods were produced/manufactured. No quantification in an assessment thereof by any authority, nor any demand notice, nor any entry in the account book would by necessary to claim such a liability as a deduction. It being a statutory liability, it would be an allowable deduction to the assessee in the year of manufacture/production even though the assessee disputed the same before the excise authorities or in a Court of law". It further observed in para 18 "Courts have held that a statutory liability can alternatively be claimed as a deduction in the year in which the assessment was made/duty was assessed and demand made irrespective of the fact that the transaction relates to earlier years. See in this connection two decisions of the Bombay High Court in Shrikant Textiles' case ( supra) and Central Provinces Manganese Ore Co. Ltd. 's case (supra); that of the Calcutta High Court in CIT v. Orient Supply Syndicate (1982) 134 ITR 12 (Cal); that of the Delhi High Court in Addl. CIT v. Rattan Chand Kapoor (1984) 149 ITR 1 (Del); and by the Madras High Court in the case of Pope The King Match Factory (supra). Although we find contrary view taken by the Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of CIT v. United India Woollen Mills ( 1981) 132 ITR 457 (P&H) and Sirsa Industries v. CIT (1989) 178 ITR 437 (P&H); by the Patna High Court in CIT v. General Trading Agency (1989) 176 ITR 303 (Pat); and by the Allahabad High Court in CIT v. Brijmohan Das Laxman Das (1979) 117 ITR 121 (All), taking a view that as per the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Kedamath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. (supra) a liability can only be claimed in the year of taxable event and not in the year of demand but insofar as Bombay Benches of the Tribunal are concerned the view of the jurisdictional High Court is binding and is to be given effect to. We, therefore, proceed to examine the assessee's case as to whether a demand was made by the authorities and deduction can be allowed on that ground." In the present case also, the jurisdictional Gujarat High Court in the case of Saurashtra Cement & Chemical Industries Ltd. (supra) is relevant on the issue. 16. We may also refer in this connection to the Commentary by Kanga and Palkhiwala, 9th Edition, Vol. n p. 1790 wherein it is stated under the head "Year in which sales-tax, excise, etc. are deductible" that "The decision of the Supreme Court in Kedamath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. (supra) establishes that under the mercantile system of accounting a fiscal liability (e.g. sales-tax or excise) under a statute should be allowed as a deduction in the year in which the relevant transactions take place, although (i) the precise quantification of the liability in the form of an assessment and demand may come later, (ii) the assessee may contest the liability in appeal or other proceedings, and (iii) the assessee may have made no provision for the liability in his books. Alternatively, the assessee may claim a deduction in a subsequent year in which the tax is assessed and the demand is made, although the transactions may pertain to earlier years; or he may even postpone his claim to a deduction to the year in which he loses in appellate proceedings and the levy becomes final." 17. In the case of contractual liability, however, ascertainment is generally difficult in view of the conflicting stands taken by the parties as to their rights and as to the terms of the contract. This liability may also perhaps be claimed in the year to which the transaction relates provided it can be fairly ascertained or estimated on agreed and admitted terms of the contract. The three decisions of the Supreme Court in Calcutta Co. Ltd. v. CIT (1959) 37 ITR 1 (SC); Bharat Rare Earth (supra) ( sic) and Metal Box Co. of India Ltd. v. Their Workmen (1969) 73 ITR 53 (SC) are the example of that situation. Where, however, a dispute is raised by the -parties, it would be allowable only on its final outcome of the dispute either in the year of amicable settlement by the parties or in the year of final determining of judicial process. The Supreme Court decision in Swadeshi Cotton & Flour Mills (P) Ltd. (supra), Bombay High Court decision in Phalton Sugar Mills Ltd. (supra) and Gujarat High Court decision in Alembic Chemical Works Ltd. (supra) are three examples of this situation. 18. In the present case the liability has arisen out of contractual obligation. We, therefore, need not go about the concept of allowability of statutory obligation and would confine ourselves to contractual liability alone. Here the breach of contract had occurred in asst. yr. 1992-93, the year much before the impugned asst. yr. 1996-97 and, therefore, here also we need not express any opinion about the allowability of the expenditure in the year 1992-93 and restrict ourselves to its allowability in asst. yr. 1996-97. The relevant case laws on this issue are discussed hereunder : 22. This is further evident by letter of the Solicitor dt. 18th April, 1999 seeking clarification on the appeal filed by the assessee and the Solicitor has advised by stating in his said letter as under : 23. The interim order of the Supreme Court reads as under : 24. From the above it is evidently clear that the dispute before the Supreme Court was only with respect to the damages otherwise granted by the Special Court and not for the purchase price and the difference between the price at the time of purchase and at the time of breach which amounted to Rs. 182 crores. Insofar as this amount is concerned, there was no dispute raised by the assessee before the Supreme Court and the decision of the Special Court was accepted by the assessee. That order being dt. 11th March, 1996 falls within the previous year under consideration and, therefore, the liability to this extent, i.e. Rs. 182 crores has arisen to the assessee in the previous year relevant to asst. yr. 1996-97 and it has to be allowed as deduction which is an ascertainable one in view of the decision of the Special Court and admitted by the assessee. 25. Insofar as the difference of Rs. 30 crores between the sum paid by the assessee at Rs. 212 crores pursuant to the direction of the Supreme Court and the amount of Rs. 182 crores, the decision of the Special Court on which has been accepted by the assessee, is concerned, that liability was still pending adjudication before the Supreme Court pursuant to an appeal filed by the assessee and, therefore, would not be an allowable deduction in the year under consideration. It would either be allowable to the assessee when the liability for the said Rs. 30 crores was accepted by the assessee either in the subsequent year when the payment was made or in the year when the Supreme Court finally decided the issue in April, 2001. The assessee would be at liberty to make appropriate claim in either of the year on production of evidence before appropriate authority, if so advised. 26. The other difference of Rs. 31,21,86,000 between the amount of compensation granted by the Special Court at Rs. 2,43,21,86,000 and the sum of Rs. 212 crores as settled by the Supreme Court would not be allowable at all as the dispute is finally settled in subsequent year 2001 at the amount of Rs. 212 crores and, therefore, there is no liability as such remained to be payable by the assessee. 27. As regards the second claim for the deduction of Rs. 44.85 crores to SBP the finding of the CIT(A) to that the claim had not been settled in the year under consideration and that various correspondence given by the assessee between SBP and the assessee suggest that final settlement was made after March, 1996. This observation of the CIT(A) in our opinion is not based on the facts. It is true that letters filed by the assessee and referred to by the CIT(A) bear the dates subsequent to the close of the year, these being dt. 11th June, 1996 and 13th June, 1996 and July 1996, but they refer to settlement reached between the assessee and SBP before 31st March, 1996 when the assessee handed over the cheque of Rs. 27,09,00,000 to SBP, which is dt. 30th March, 1996. This cheque was given by the assessee to SBP pursuant to their settlement of outstanding security transaction vide memorandum for executive committee dt. 23rd March, 1996 for the meeting to be held on 26th March, 1996, which were approved by the chairman of the meeting before the close of the previous year. The said settlement reads as under: 28. In the light of the aforesaid memorandum it is clear that the liability for Rs. 27,09,50,000 had been amicably and finally settled during the year under consideration on or before 31st March, 1996 consequent to which the assessee made payment of the sum of Rs. 27,09,50,000 to SBP, which has been accepted by them vide their letter dt. 29th March, 1996. This letter is also extracted below : 29. On a reading of this letter it however is evident that insofar as the principal amount was concerned, it was settled by the meeting held in March, 1996, but the interest portion of the dispute was left to be settled subsequently. There the CIT(A) could be said to be right in stating that the interest liability was settled in June or July, 1996. We, therefore, hold that insofar as the liability of the principal amount of Rs. 27,09,50,000 is concerned, that has crystallised by amicable settlement during the year under consideration and has to be allowed as deduction but insofar as the interest on the aforesaid amount for the period from 16th Nov., 1991 to 30th March, 1996, amounting to Rs. 17,76,02,158 was settled in the immediately subsequent year and the assessee would be at liberty to claim the same by seeking appropriate remedy, if so advised in accordance with law. 30. One of the other reasons for confirming the disallowance given by the CIT(A) in his order is that Harshad Mehta has not denied his liability to deliver the securities and, therefore, it was a claim which has to be decided after all the cases are finally decided and the payables to the parties may match with the receivables from counter parties, resulting in, possibly, no liability for the bank. That proposition does not seem to be in accordance with the provisions of law. Mere claim of the party will not tantamount to accrual of receipt or claim in favour of the party in view of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of E.D. Sassoon & Co. Ltd. v. ( supra) and Union of India v. J.K. Synthetics Ltd. (supra) and the two decisions of Gujarat High Court in the cases of CIT v. Bharat Iron & Steel Industries (supra) and Meghdoot Laminart (P.) Ltd. v. Rajiv Sinha (supra). Such inquite claim in absence of any finally enforceable decree, in our opinion, cannot be taken into account in the relevant year when the bank has incurred loss by virtue of enforceable decree passed against it by the Court; that no corresponding determination of any right against said Harshad Mehta. 31. In the case of Laxmi Ginning & Oil Mills (supra) before the Punjab & Haryana High Court, the assessee sold a certain quantity of oil to a company for a total value of Rs. 26,642. The purchaser company did not take delivery of the oil contracted to be purchased by it and thus committed a breach of the contract. The assessee then sold that quantity of oil in the open market at the risk of the purchaser and realized only a sum of Rs. 20,572 incurring a loss of Rs. 9,160 which was debited by him to the 'groundnut account' and credited to the 'claim in dispute account'. The assessee, thereafter, filed a suit against the company for recovery of the said loss and ultimately obtained a decree in 1962. In the meantime, the assessee claimed the above loss in its return for the asst. yr. 1953-54. The ITO disallowed, the loss on the ground that, as the loss debited to the trading account had not been finally settled, the debit created in the groundnut account cannot be allowed and added back the same. On appeals, the AAC and the Tribunal upheld the contention of the ITO. The High Court, on reference held : 32. The Cochin Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Radhakrishna Oil Mills (supra) observed that "Pendency of settlement of insurance claim is no bar to the allowability of loss in this year as has been held by the Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of Laxmi Ginning & Oil Mills v. CIT (supra). So, in the circumstances, we hold that there is a mistake of law apparent from the record and direct the ITO to look into the assessee's claim of trading loss and allow it." 33. Similarly Ahmedabad Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Cama Motors (P) Ltd. (supra) observed that the CIT(A) erred in not allowing the sum of Rs. 2,87,516 being the amount of provision made in respect of stolen jeeps by stating that the loss is not yet become mature. The jeeps have been recovered and are in custody of assessee. There is a reasonable chance for assessee to recover back the goods. The mere dispossession is not loss. Secondly, the matter is subjudice and it is not yet finally settled whether or not the jeeps were stolen. It is learnt that the accused had taken the stand that the jeeps were sold in regular fashion and the regular sale bills, etc. were prepared and that the jeeps were not stolen at all. Till the Court decides on the issue whether the jeeps were stolen or sold, the claimed loss cannot be allowed. The Tribunal in para 6.2 held that "Under these circumstances, we feel that the claim of the assessee merits allowance not only on the basis of the system of accounting being followed by him but also the facts surrounding the claim." We are supported in our decision by the judgment of the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of Laxmi Ginning & Oil Mills (supra). It also referred to the decision of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of Jethabhai Hirji & Jethabhai Ramdas v. CUT (supra) wherein it has been observed that "Nor would the fact that an assessee, subsequent to the write off of a debt, continued legal proceedings against the debtor necessarily lead to the conclusion that the write off was improper or lacked bona fides." The decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Sarangpur Cotton Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. CIT (supra), was also referred to with the observations of their Lordships at p. 708 that "When a businessman writes off an amount, there is prima facie evidence that that amount is irrecoverable. Undoubtedly, the Department can rebut the prima facie inference by drawing attention to circumstances or by lending some evidence to suggest that the position taken up by the assessee was not correct. In this case there is no evidence whatsoever on the record except the fact that the assessee wrote off this amount in the year of account. In the absence of any evidence we are entitled to presume that the amount became irrecoverable when the assessee wrote it off in its books of account." The Tribunal ultimately allowed the claim of the assessee by stating : 34. Reference was made to certain decisions. These are discussed hereunder: 35. Another reason given by AO for disallowance of both the losses is that the loss has arisen from speculative transactions and, therefore, the losses are in any case speculative loss as per the provisions of Section 43(6) of the Act and consequently cannot be allowed against business income of the assessee. The CIT(A) however accepted the claim of the assessee that it was not a speculative loss by observing in para 34 as under : 36. Learned standing counsel objected to this finding of the CIT(A). This issue is raised also in the cross-objection. His submission is that the loss has arisen in a speculative transaction within the meaning of Section 43(5) r/w Section 73 of the Act as observed by the AO and, therefore, would not be an allowable deduction as a business loss in view of the following decisions : Talakshi Lalji & Co, v. ITO (1991) 41 TTJ (Ahd) 139 : (1991) 39 ITD 44 (Ahd); Kanubhai A. Patel v. Asstt. CIT (2004) 89 TTJ (Ahd) 1032 : (2004) 89 ITD 255 (Ahd); P.L KN. Meenakshi Achi v. CIT (1974) 96 ITR 375 (Mad); A. Musthukumara Pillai v. CIT (1974) 96 ITR 557 (Mad); Ramdayal Somani & Co. v. CIT (1979) 119 ITR 1 (Bom); Pankaj Oil Mills v. CIT (1978) 115 ITR 824 (Guj)(FB); Sri Ranga Vilas Ginning & Oil Mills v. CIT (1982) 133 ITR 85 (Mad); CIT v. Bhikamchand Jankilal (1981) 131 ITR 554 (MP); M.G. Bros. v. CIT (1985) 154 ITR 695 (AP); V.N. Sarsetty v. CIT (1987) 163 ITR 727 (Kar); CIT v. Maya Ram Jia Lal (1986) 162 ITR 520 (P&H); Nuddea Mills Co. Ltd. v. CIT ( 1988) 171 ITR 169 (Cal) and CIT v. Ganga Prasad Birla (HUF ) (1993) 199 ITR 173 (Cal). According to him, the Special Court did not cover the issue regarding transaction within the meaning of Section 43(5) . The claim of the Revenue is not covered by Section 23 of the Contract Act but that it was a speculative transaction. He further submitted that there were no units against which negotiations were there and as the assessee was not holding units and, therefore, the transactions are speculative and not in the regular course of banking business of the assessee. 37. Assessee's contentions for this objection are : (i) that the transactions were of ready forward contract and amount to settlement of dispute and, therefore, not speculative; (ii) that the assessee-bank has not incurred any expenditure much less any claim having been made for deduction as expenditure; (iii) that even assuming for the sake of argument that the claim of loss would be treated as expenditure, it is not for any purpose which is an offence or that it is prohibited by law. In this connection, reference was made to the speech of the Hon'ble Finance Minister while moving the Finance (No. 2) Bill, 1998, and CBDT Circular No. 722, dt. 22nd Dec., 1998. He also referred to Memorandum Explaining the Provisions in the Finance (No. 2) Bill, 1998. The findings given by the learned CIT(A) show that by no stretch of imagination the Explanation to Section 37(1) can be attracted in the. case of appellant because the deduction has not been claimed on account of any expenditure incurred as mentioned in Explanation to Section 37 nor any such similar expenditure. It is a claim of loss incurred by the assessee allowable under Section 28 itself. Supporting the finding of the CIT(A) the learned counsel referred to judgment given by the Supreme Court in the case of BOI Finance Ltd. v. Custodian AIR 1997 SC 1952 wherein after relying upon the findings of Special Court as well as interim report of Jankiraman Committee it is held that the transactions of the bank are not illegal. 38. We have heard the parties and considered their rival submissions. We find ourselves in agreement with the CIT(A) on this issue. Units of UTI may not be considered shares nevertheless they are a commodity. It is true that there was no delivery of the units in terms of the contract, but as the settlement of the contract was not for the payment of difference of value of units contracted to be purchased and sold, it would not be a speculative transaction within the meaning of Section 43(5) of the Act. The assessee's intention has throughout been to take delivery and hand it over to the purchasing party. It could not deliver the units because it in turn had not taken the delivery for the purchase of the units and could not enforce the delivery from the parties from whom it had purchased. In the case of CIT v. Shantilal (P) Ltd (1983) 144 ITR 57 (SC) the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that it is quite an other matter in the case of a breach of contract where instead of such acceptance, the parties raise a dispute and no agreement can be reached for discharge of the contract. In that case there is a breach of contract and by virtue of Section 73 of the Contract Act, the party suffering by such breach becomes entitled to receive, from the party who broke the contract, compensation for any loss or damage caused to him thereby. The award of damages for the breach of a contract is not the same thing as a party to the contract accepting satisfaction of the contract otherwise than in accordance with original terms thereof. We are in agreement with CIT(A) in holding that the transactions were not speculative as per Section 43(5) of the IT Act. 39. In the case of Kanubhai A. Patel (supra) before the Ahemdabad Bench of the Tribunal, the assessee owned certain shares of TISCO along with investment of various other companies. He purchased 2,000 shares of TISCO originally purchased on 2nd April, 1992, which were purchased for total consideration of Rs. 14 lakhs, through a broker, but did not take actual delivery of the said shares nor made payment to the broker at the time of purchase of these shares. The assessee sold these shares and suffered a loss. He paid a sum of Rs. 4 lakhs to the broker to cover up the risk of the broker against the loss due to fluctuations of cost. The transaction in purchase and sale of the said 2,000 shares of TISCO was made by the assessee during seven periods of fortnightly settlements and the said transaction was settled by the assessee at the end of each badla period and the amount of loss was determined and the payment against such loss was made to the broker and the assessee claimed the loss suffered in the purchase and sale of shares as a short-term capital loss, but it was disallowed by the Revenue authorities treating it to be a speculative loss. The Tribunal held that transactions relating to purchase and sales of shares in question made by the assessee were clearly speculative transactions and constituted speculative business. This is a case where the assessee has settled the transactions with the broker for purchase and sales of the shares. No actual delivery was taken or contemplated either for sale and/or purchase of the shares and in these circumstances, the Tribunal held that transactions were speculative in nature. In the present case, on the contrary, the assessee had a forward contract of back-to-back transaction, delivery was contemplated and assesses failed to make delivery and had to suffer a loss, and, therefore, it cannot be equated with a speculative transaction. 40. In the case of P.L.KN. Meenakashi Achi (supra) before the Madras High Court, Kannappa Chettiar was carrying on business in yarn and he entered into contracts of sales. Delivery period was fixed. Market price of the yarn was rising during the period of delivery and the difference between the contract price and market price was Rs. 14,000. These contracts for sale were covered by any item of purchase contract. Yarn was not delivered under this contract, but a sum of Rs. 9,500 paid to Nagappa Chettiar and the contract was settled. There were 13 other sales contracts in which deliveries were not effected, but in these cases the assessee received the price difference amounting to Rs. 3,313. The loss of Rs. 9,500 was disallowed by the AO as being speculative loss. The High Court held that the contracts were settled otherwise than by the delivery of goods and, therefore, the sale which is ultimately settled and not delivery of the goods were effected under the settlement, then it is a speculative transaction, irrespective of the intention of the parties at the time of contract. This is also a case of settlement of the contract by paying the difference and without affecting the delivery and not the case of breach of contract. 41. In the case of Sri Ranga Vilas Ginning & Oil Mills (supra), before the Madras High Court, the assessee entered into a forward contract for delivery of groundnut oil, but settled the same not by actual delivery, but payment of difference and the Court held that it was a speculative transaction. This also not the case of non-performance of the contract, for which damages are to paid, but a settlement of the contract without delivery of goods, and, therefore, cannot be equated to the facts of the present case. 42. In the case of Ramdayal Somani & Co. (supra), before the Bombay High Court, the assessee-firm carried on speculation business in shares, bullion and various other commodities. A party with whom the assessee had entered into a contract for forward delivery of shares wanted the contract to be closed either by payment of differences or by actual delivery of shares. The assessee, therefore, borrowed 300 shares and delivered them to the party. The assessee-firm then purchased 530 shares, out of which 200 shares were returned to the person from whom shares had been borrowed and the balance of 330 shares were sold in the market which resulted in a net profit of Rs. 38,060 and in the same year, the assessee had incurred a loss of Rs. 39,893 in his speculation business and claimed before the ITO that the loss should be set off against the profit of Rs. 38,060, which the assessee claimed was profit from, speculation business. The AO has held that since the profit arose from a transaction where there was actual delivery of shares, the profit could not be treated as arising from a speculative transaction. On appeals, the AAC and the Tribunal affirmed the order of the AO and on reference before the High Court, it was held that as there was actual delivery of the shares sold by the assessee and purchased by the respective purchasers, the profit was not profit from speculative transactions within the meaning of Section 43(5) of the Act. In this case, the issue was not whether the loss had arisen from speculative transaction, but whether the profit made by the assessee was arising out of the speculative transaction and since delivery of shares have been taken and given, it was held that the profit was not from speculative transaction. 43. In the case of Pankaj Oil Mills (supra), before the Full Bench of Gujarat High Court, the assessee was carrying on business of manufacturing oil in the previous year relevant to asst. yr. 1965-66. The assessee entered into business of transaction of sale of oil. The transactions were ultimately settled otherwise than by actual delivery of the goods and the settlement resulted in a loss which was claimed as business deduction. This was disallowed as being speculative in nature and it claimed before the Tribunal that for all intention and purposes, that were hedging contract, and, therefore, the loss should be allowed as a deduction. The High Court held that it was not a hedging contract and that the assessee is not entitled to set off of loss being the amount of loss against its other business income suffered on account of settlement of forward transactions of sale of oil, since the hedging transactions must be in respect of raw materials so far as manufacturers are concerned. 44. In the case of Bhikamchand Jankilal (supra), before the Madhya Pradesh High Court, the assessee who was a dealer in cotton entered into two contracts for the sale of 200 cotton bales. He did not deliver the bales in accordance with the contracts and offered instead 2,000 bales of cotton, but as they were of inferior quality, which offer was rejected and refused to take delivery. The assessee made a proposal to settle the contract by payment of damages for breach of contract, to which proposal the assessee agreed and paid the compensation. At the time of entering into the contract, the assessee had 194 quintals of raw cotton which was equivalent to 65 quintals of cotton on 38 fully pressed bales. The assessee had contemplated to purchase extra quantity of cotton needed to supply, but as the market went up, the assessee could not purchase the same and failed to perform its part of the contract. The AO took a view that two contracts with the party constituted speculative transactions as defined under Section 43(5) , and, therefore, consequently, disallowed the loss. The Tribunal held that the transaction being a single transaction did not amount to a speculation business and allowed the set off. The High Court on reference held that if the transaction under which the assessee paid compensation to 'R' amounted to a speculative transaction, it also amounted to speculation business attracting the operation of Section 73(1) and the loss of Rs. 1,35,000 and the loss could not be set off against the profits of the other business of the assessee. Both the Tribunal and High Court have proceeded on the assumption that the transaction was speculative transaction, and, therefore, this case was no help either to the assessee or to the Revenue. 45. In the case of M.G. Bros, (supra), before the Andhra Pradesh High Court, the assessee-firm carried on business in the manufacture and sale of groundnut oil and its by-products. It claimed a deduction of Rs. 17,60,946 being the loss suffered in respect of certain transactions, which had been entered into in cotton seed oil and neem oil. The assessee admitted that this loss had been suffered by paying differences pursuant to settlement of contracts otherwise than by delivery of goods but claimed that these were hedging transactions. The claim of the assessee was disallowed by the AO and AAC and also by the Tribunal. The High Court under reference held that there was no material on record to show that when the assessee entered into the forward transaction, it had adequate stocks of raw materials or merchandise, in hand and that hedge contracts did not exceed the ready stock. The forward transactions were speculative in character and the loss arising therefrom could not be set off against the assessee's income from the business in the manufacture and sale of groundnut oil. This is case where the assessee had admitted the loss as settled pursuant to the settlement of the contract, otherwise than by the delivery of goods. There is no question of settlement of the contracts in this case, because the assessee had not settled the contract and liability has been fastened upon it by the decision of the Special Court for not carrying his obligation under the contract. 46. In the case of V.N. Sarsetty (supra), before the Karnataka High Court, the assessee who was a merchant, dealing in groundnut, kapas, cotton and cotton seeds, under an agreement entered into between the assessee and a buyer, the assessee was required to deliver cotton to the buyer before the end of April, 1969. The agreement also provided that the buyer could extend the time for the delivery of the goods. The assessee failed to deliver the cotton even till 23rd May, 1969 in spite of repealed demands from the buyer and the buyer had extended the time for delivery but inspite of such extension, the assessee did not deliver the goods. The assessee paid a sum of Rs. 35,000 by way of loss on account of non-delivery of the goods in full settlement of the contract to the buyer as per the decision of the panchas and claimed the same as deduction. The inspecting officer rejected the claim of the assessee on the ground that the loss on account of non-delivery of goods was a 'speculative loss' within the meaning of Section 43(5) of the Act and the disallowance was upheld by the Tribunal and on the reference, the High Court held that the buyer had kept the contract subsisting with his right to extend the time for performance and, since there was no performance of the contract even within the extended time, the buyer accepted the amount agreed upon by the panchas in full settlement of the contract and not as damages for the breach of the contract. The buyer instead of waiting to take actual delivery of the cotton, had accepted the total amount of Rs. 35,000 in full settlement of the contractual obligations, and, therefore, the transaction entered into by the assessee with the buyer was a speculative transaction and payment of Rs. 35,000 amounted to a speculative loss within the meaning of Section 43(5) of the Act. In this case, the contract was kept alive, and, therefore, the Court held that the settlement of the contract was in the nature of speculative transaction and not as damages for breach of the contract, because the buyer instead of willing to take delivery of the cotton, had accepted the compensation. This case, therefore, is no help to the Revenue. 47. In the case of Maya Ram Jia Lal (supra), before the Punjab & Haryana High Court, the assessee entered into agreement for supply of goods to certain parties and since the assessee could not fulfil the contracts in time, the assessee settled the contracts by paying compensation to the parties and claimed the compensation paid as a business loss. It was disallowed by the AO and disallowance was upheld by the AAC. The Tribunal however allowed the claim by observing that the settlement was made long after the date of delivery was contemplated in the contracts and that the claim of the assessee was based on breach of contract and did not come within the meaning of contract 'settled' as used in Section 43(5) of the Act. Revenue's appeal was allowed by the High Court observing that there was no evidence to show whether the person with whom the assessee had contracted to sell, gave any notice to the assessee alleging breach of contract on the part of the assessee or filed suits against the assessee claiming compensation. There was also no evidence as to why the assessee was not able to perform his part of the contract or as to how the damages were quantified or as to what was the agreed rate and what rate prevailed on the date of delivery. The Court further observed that merely because the contract had not been performed by the agreed date, it could not be said that it was due to the default of the assessee. If the default of the assessee was not established the question of liability would not arise and consequently the question of payment of damages would not arise and since there was no delivery of goods was effected and the contracts between the parties were settled by payment and, therefore, such payment could not be allowed as they were of a speculative nature and came within the meaning of Section 43(5) of the Act. This case is of no help to the Revenue, as the suit was by the purchaser by claiming compensation and the assessee was not in a position to perform his part of the contract because in turn received delivery of the goods purchased as forward contract. In the present case, there was clear breach of contract for not making delivery, as agreed by the agreement between the parties. 48. In the case of Nuddea Mills Co. Ltd. (supra), before the Calcutta High Court, was also a case of settlement of the contract without delivery and/or transfer of contracted goods, and, therefore, it was held that the transaction was speculative transaction. Here also the claim of hedging was not allowed by the High Court and in view of the fact that it was not case of the assessee that it entered into the future contract of purchase for settlement of the future contracts of sale with the object of guarding against any loss through price fluctuations. 49. In the case of Ganga Prasad Birla (HUF ) (supra), before the Calcutta High Court, the assessee made a declaration in March, 1972 that he had converted his investments in shares into stock-in-trade and during the previous year on 27th Aug., 1973 the assessee purchased 10,000 shares of company 'O' and obtained delivery of those shares. The shares were in possession when, on that very date, the assessee entered into a contract for sale of these shares. The shares, however, were not delivered and on September, 1973, instead of delivering the shares, the assessee entered into another contract for purchase of 10,000 shares which was not followed up by taking delivery of the shares, but the contract for sale was entered into on August, 1973, was settled by payment of the difference in price to the share broker. On October, 1973, the assessee sold and delivered the said shares of 'O' company and made a profit in the process and claimed loss arising to the assessee on the sale and repurchase effected on 22nd Aug., 1973 and 20th Sept., 1973. It was disallowed by the AO by observing that as a loss arising out of a speculative transaction, and, therefore, cannot be allowed as deduction. The Tribunal, however, held that it was a single speculative transaction and does not amount to speculative business. The High Court on reference held that there was nothing on record to say that there was any dispute between purchaser and the seller because of which delivery could not be taken by the assessee, when he purchased the shares or delivery could not be given by the assessee when he sold the shares. The assessee had full knowledge of the trend of the market and also had inside knowledge of working of the company. The contracts for purchase and sale of shares without delivery were clearly of speculative nature. The assessee had entered into at least two transactions where goods were not delivered--one for the sale of shares in August, 1973 and other for the purchase of shares in September, 1973, therefore, the High Court reversed the order of the Tribunal stating that it was an isolated transaction. In this case, it is evident that the assessee intended not to deliver in respect of transactions he has incurred loss on 22nd Aug., 1973 and 20th Sept., 1973 and transactions were settled without taking delivery. In these circumstances, the High Court held that they were speculative in nature and the present case on the contrary, the delivery was contemplated in agreement itself, but the same could not be effected by the assessee because of reasons beyond the control, as it could not take delivery of purchase made from the purchaser counter party bank. This case, is therefore, of no help to the Revenue. 50. On the contrary, the following decisions would clinch the issue in establishing the fact that the assessee in the present case has not entered into speculative transactions, but the loss has been suffered by it because of the breach of the contract for not delivering the goods, as per the terms of the contract. These are discussed hereunder in subsequent paragraphs : (3) Panachand Khemchand, Gujarat High Court at p. 1053 of the reports held that "A transaction cannot be described as a 'speculative transaction' within the meaning of Sub-section (5) of Section 43 of the IT Act, 1961, where there is a breach of the contract and on a dispute between the parties damages are awarded as compensation." ( 4) Anamalai Timber Trust Ltd. 's case (supra) wherein Kerala High Court held that "Whether the nature of the business carried on by an assessee is such that the risk of negligence of the assessee's servants while acting in the course of their employment is also incidental to such business, the liability of the assessee to pay damages for such negligence is also incidental to the business, and loss resulting from payment of such damages is allowable as a trading loss in computing the assessee's income from such business. The fact that the loss was due to the negligence of the assessee's servants or that such negligence has resulted in a breach of contract would make no difference." 51. Another ground for disallowance of the loss is the claim of Revenue that the transaction was tainted with illegality and, therefore, cannot be a normal feature of trade and, therefore, not allowable as a deduction under Section 37(1) r/w Explanation thereto. The CIT(A) held that the provisions of Explanation to Section 37(1) do not hit the transaction and make it payment which is illegal or otherwise prohibited by the law observing in para 43 as under: In view of the judgment of the Supreme Court as mentioned above, apparently it appears that ready forward contracts cannot be treated as illegal unless it is proved that ready leg transactions and forward leg transactions are not severable in the case of the appellant. Therefore, having regard to the contentions of the appellant's learned counsel, I am of the view that the Explanation to Section 37(1) is not applicable in the case of the appellant because the deduction has not been claimed on account of any expenditure made as mentioned in Explanation to Section 37 or any such similar expenditure. Therefore, this provision does not appear to be applicable." 52. As regards this aspect of the matter (which is also taken as 2nd cross-objection in cross-objection filed by the Revenue) the learned standing counsel submitted that the entire claim for deduction of Rs. 243.21 crores was not allowable since part of the same is penal in nature and tainted with illegality and fraud. 53. The contention of the learned counsel for the assessee, on the other hand, is that the Explanation is clarificatory in nature and it states that any expenditure incurred by the assessee for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law shall not be deemed to have been incurred for the purpose of business and shall not be deductible as an expenditure. The Explanation merely tries to further limit the scope of applicability of provisions of Section 37 but, in no event it can override the main provision of Section 37 . It is further submitted that the assessee had not incurred any expenditure much less any claim having been made for deduction which is prohibited by law and even assuming for the sake of argument that the claim of loss would be treated as expenditure, it is not for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law. 54. We have heard the parties and considered their rival submissions. We find ourselves in agreement with the CIT(A) on this issue. The Explanation which is the core of this dispute in this case reads as under : 55. On a bare reading of this Explanation, it is evident that it prohibits deduction of expenditure incurred by the assessee for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law. Only in that case such an expenditure is deemed to have been incurred for the purpose of business or profession and deduction or allowance is prohibited for such an expenditure. Incurring of the loss and claiming the same is not for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law. Even the Special Court acting under (Trial of Offence relating to Security Transactions) Act, 1992, has also not declared the transaction as illegal. It only directed the assessee to make the delivery of the securities to PNB as per the contract entered into by them and that was for breach of the contract, which was enforceable as per the Contract Act . It is true that the report of Jankiraman Committee has pointed out certain irregularities by the banks in relation to several transactions but that has also not said that the transactions were illegal. The CIT(A) has referred to the decision of BOI Finance Ltd. (supra) in allowing the claim of the assessee. In this, the Supreme Court observed that a "Transaction consists of two interconnected legs, namely, the first or the ready leg, consisting of purchase or sale of certain securities at a specified price, and the second or forward leg, consisting of the sale or purchase of the same or similar securities at a latter date at a price determined on the first date. Such ready forward transactions have, in most cases, been entered into either by execution of a single document or by execution of two documents contemporaneously, one representing the first or ready leg and other the forward or second leg. On such contracts being entered into the ready leg of the transactions were completed with the appellants having the agreed price and receiving the delivery of the securities which were agreed to be purchased". It was further observed that Banking Regulation Act (10 of 1949), Section 36- -Reserve bank of India--Confidential circular issued to banking companies prohibiting them from entering into buy back arrangement--bank entering into such arrangement with third party despite prohibition--Contract entered is not rendered void--bank however is liable for penalty." Referring to the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act (42 of 1956) Section 16 and the Contract Act (9 of 1872), Section 57 , Prohibition to forward contract to securities and the effect on ready-forward transaction, it was also observed that such transaction is severable and where the ready leg which is valid is separable from forward leg which is prohibited, the ready leg remains valid. The Court concluded from the above that (a) infringements of the instructions issued by the RBI under the Banking Regulations Act prohibiting the banks from entering into buy back arrangements do not invalidate such contracts entered into between the banks and its customers; (b) that the ready forward contract is severable into two parts, namely, the ready leg and the forward leg. The ready leg of the transaction having been completed, the forward leg, which alone is illegal, has to be ignored; (c) that with the ready leg having been performed the illegality of the forward leg contained in the agreements cannot affect the transfers which had already taken place." We are in agreement with order of CIT(A) and it does not call for any interference at our end. We accordingly uphold the same. 56. The next ground in the assessee's appeal is against levy of interest under Section 234B of the Act. The assessee submitted that it is a legal ground and it is entitled to challenge the levy of interest along with the other grounds of appeal. It is further submitted that in assessment order the AO has merely stated "Charge interest under Section 234B ". He further submitted that there is no application of mind and an opportunity of hearing was not given to the assessee. He also relied upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Ranchi Club Ltd. (2001) 247 ITR 209 (SC). He further submitted that the levy of interest under Section 234B bears the imprint of penalty and, therefore, without hearing the assessee the same should not have been levied. He further submitted that though the provisions of Section 234B are mandatory the same is not compulsory or universally applicable to all cases without any distinction. He further submitted that the assessee can legitimately/bona fidely believe that the particular item is not assessable as his income, and, therefore, no advance tax was paid nor the assessee could have anticipated the disallowance of certain claims converting into positive income, and, therefore, it is a penalty for not doing impossible. He also submitted that it must be construed as a substantive law and not adjectival law. We have heard the parties and considered their rival submissions. This ground has been raised by the assessee before the CIT(A) as ground No. 5 but there is no discussion on this issue in his order. In these circumstances we set aside the order of CIT(A) for this limited purpose and direct him to decide the ground of chargeability of interest under Section 234B of the Act. 57. The first ground in the Revenue's appeal is against allowance of claim of depreciation of Rs. 33,06,56,000 on securities treating the same as stock-in-trade. The AO held that the securities were not depreciable assets and, therefore, depreciation at any fixed rate cannot be allowed upon the same from year to year. According to him, the claim of depreciation was notional claim which does not form part of any allowance under the Act. He also noted that a similar claim was disallowed in earlier years asst. yrs. 1985-86, 1992-93 to 1995-96 and the CIT(A) has allowed the claim of the assessee and that though similar claim allowed by the AO for asst. yrs. 1987-88 and 1988-89 but has been withdrawn by the CIT under Section 263 . The Tribunal had also dismissed the Revenue's appeal by taking aid from the provisions under Section 32AB . 58. Before the CIT(A) the assessee submitted that under the provisions of banking Regulation Act, 1949 , the bank is required to invest and to keep invested certain specified percentage of its demand and time liabilities prescribed by the RBI from time-to-time, in certain approved securities. Since such investments in securities are closely and intimately connected with the business of banking and are vital and essential requirement stipulated by law, securities in which such investment is made are trading assets of the bank. Reliance was placed on the decision of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of State Bank of Patiala wherein the claim of depreciation was allowed in similar circumstances. The CIT(A) allowed the claim of the assessee by following his decision in the appeal for earlier years for asst. yrs. 1992-93 and 1993-94 and after referring to the Board Circular No. 665, dt. 5th Oct., 1993, which reads : "The question whether a particular item of investment in securities constitutes stock-in-trade or a capital asset is a question of fact. In fact, the banks are generally governed by instructions of the RBI from time-to-time with regard to the clarification of assets and also accounting standards for investments." He, therefore, allowed the claim of the assessee subject to verification about the accuracy of the computation made by the assessee. 59. The learned standing counsel submitted that the securities held by the assessee were investments and it was so held in asst. yr. 1985-86 by observing that if it was stock-in-trade it would have been reflected in trading account as loss and not depreciation. He also referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. British Paints India Ltd. (1991) 188 ITR 44 (SC). Referring to the provisions of Section 10(33)(i) r/w Section 115-0, he submitted that deduction was not allowable because of 14A also the dividend income is chargeable under the head 'income from other sources' under Section 56 and hence shares held by the assessee cannot be treated as business assets and no depreciation is allowable. In any case it was submitted that it is a notional loss inasmuch as no trading activities have been undertaken by the assessee. 60. The learned counsel for the assessee relied upon the decision of the CIT(A) in the appeals for asst. yrs. 1992-93 and 1993-94 wherein similar claim was accepted by the CIT(A). It is further submitted that since 1977-78 the assessee-bank is consistently and regularly following the basis of valuation from year to year and the income arisen from the sale of securities are being taxed year after year on the basis of profit and not capital gains. He referred to a chart right from asst. yrs. 1977-78 to 2001-02 which reads as under : 64. We are in agreement with the CIT(A) and more particularly for the reasons given for earlier part of our order. The ground is accordingly rejected. 65. The cross-objection is filed by the Revenue against the order of the CIT(A) after a long delay of more than three years. The reason that it was filed later on advice, cannot in our opinion be a ground for condoning the delay. In any case no separate permission of COD has been taken by the Revenue for the cross-objection on this issue. That would also be a ground for not allowing the cross-objection to be proceeded with. Be that as it may, we have already held while dealing with the assessee's appeal that the transactions are not speculative nor they are tainted with any illegality which could be disallowed by virtue of Explanation below Section 73(1) of the Act. It is accordingly rejected. 66. In the result, the assessee's appeal is partly allowed. The appeal and cross-objection filed by Revenue are dismissed.