1. This is an application under section 482 read with section 401 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (hereinafter called as Code) wherein

petitioner has sought for quashing all impugned proceedings and orders

passed in Misc. Case no. 515 of 2016 under Section 125 of the Code, in

consequence of the judgment dated 8th July, 2022 passed by this High

Court in ACGR case no. 4107 of 2016, discharging the petitioner from the

offences under section 498-A/ 406 and 34 of the Indian Penal code 1860

( IPC ). 1 2. Petitioner contended that a purported marriage was held on

22.02.2016 in between the petitioner and the opposite party No.2 herein and

the wife opposite party stayed only for 7 days in two phases in her

matrimonial home and ultimately left matrimonial home on 03.03.2016 3. Petitioner's further case is that the petitioner thereafter filed a suit for

declaring nullity of said purported marriage and immediate after getting

notice of that suit, as a counter blast, the opposite party/wife started

harassing the petitioner and his family members with false and fabricated

allegations. 4. The opposite party/wife lodged an FIR on 12.07.2016 against the

petitioner under section 498A , 406 and 34 IPC and also filed present case

seeking maintenance under section 125 of the Code on 15.07.2016.

Petitioner further submits that it is evident that the allegations regarding

cruelty levelled against the petitioner herein in the aforesaid two cases i.e. in

the FIR being no. 424 dated 12.07.2016 and the present maintenance

petition being M. 515 of 2016 dated 15.07.2016 are in general same and

date wise similar. 5. He further submits that the petitioner preferred an application under section 482 of the Code for quashing the aforesaid FIR No. 424 dated

12.07.2016 and this Court by its judgment dated 8th July, 2022 allowed the

prayer of the petitioner and thereby quashed the aforesaid criminal

proceeding being FIR No. 424 dated 12.07.2016 with the observation that

the allegations made in the written complaint are not only vague and

omnibus but also bereaved of any specific detail and has been attributed

against the present petitioner in furtherance of general and omnibus 2 allegations which are not at all sufficient to form an opinion that there is

ground for presuming that the present petitioner have committed any

offence far from committing offence either under section 498-A or under section 406 of IPC and there is reason to believe that the veiled object

behind the lame prosecution is the counter blast of the matrimonial suit

filed by the petitioner and with an object to rope the present petitioner due

to her matrimony discord. 6. Petitioner further submits that from the aforesaid judgment it has

been well established that the opposite party has made allegations falsely in

her present application under section 125 of the Code that she was

physically or mentally tortured at her matrimonial home or that she was

subjected to dowry harassment by the petitioner or that her husband

tortured her or drove her out from his house. On the contrary, it has been

proved from her averment that she left her matrimonial home of her own

accord with her father on 3.3.2016 evening for some medical test. 7. Mr. Roy Chowdhury learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

petitioner further submits that the status of husband and wife has not yet

been established since it was a pre-planned fraud marriage arranged by the

opposite party and for which petitioner has filed aforesaid matrimonial suit

for declaring the marriage as nullity. He further submits that all the

allegations of cruelty and dowry harassment in the petition in M. Case No.

515 of 2016 made by the opposite party herein against the petitioner being

date wise similar to those of the complaint made in FIR and it has been

established from the judgment passed by the High Court that opposite party 3 has made false allegations swearing affidavit in her petition filed under section 125 Cr.P.C. 8. Accordingly Mr. Roy Chowdhury submits that the aforesaid

maintenance petition filed on the basis of false allegations of cruelty,

physical and mental torture and/or dowry harassment against the petitioner

without exposing her education, working capability and living standard, is

not maintainable in the eye of law and in this context he relied upon

following judgments in ( a) Manmohan Singh Vs. Smt. Mahindra Kaur , reported in 1976 Cri.

 L.J. 1664. ( b) Debnarayan Halder Vs. Smt. Anushree Halder reported in AIR

 2003 SC 3174. ( c) Smt. Mamata Jaiswal Vs. Rajesh Jaiswal , reported in II (2000)

 DMC 170. ( d) Pooja Gour Vs. Shri Umit @ Pinky Patel . ( e) Rishi Pal Vs. Luxmi Devi and another . 9. Mr. Roy Chowdhury in support of petitioner's prayer made under section 482 of the Code contended that the object of section 125 of the Code

is to prevent vagrancy and destitution of a hapless lady which is not at all

applicable in the present context and accordingly continuance of aforesaid

proceeding being M 515 of 2016 would be an abuse of process of law and

court and as such he has prayed for quashing the aforesaid maintenance

proceeding. 10. Mr. Sabyasachi Mukherjee learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

opposite party submits that the petitioner has not filed affidavit of assets 4 and liabilities in compliance with direction made by Apex Court in Rajnish

Vs. Neha reported in 2021 (2) SCC 324. He further pointed out that the

petitioner in his application seeking quashing of maintenance proceeding

but has not mentioned the grounds specifically on which he is seeking for

quashing. He further contended that merely because wife is highly educated

or her parents are rich, cannot be ground to observe that the opposite party

wife is able to maintain herself. In this context he relied upon the judgment

of a) Sailoja Vs. Khobbanna reported in AIR 2017 SC 1174. b) Sunita Kachwaha and others Vs. Anil Kachwaha reported in AIR

 2015 SC 554. c) Sanjay Damodar Koley Vs. Kalyani Sanjay Koley reported in AIR

 2020 SCC OnLine Bom 694. d) Dr. Swapan Kumar Banerjee Vs. The State of West Bengal reported

 in AIR 2019 SC 4748. 11. In this context he further contended, whether the wife/opposite party

herein is entitled to get maintenance or not can only be decided after trial

since opposite party has raised various triable issues in the aforesaid

maintenance proceeding. In such view of the matter the maintenance

proceeding initiated by the petitioner who is an unemployed lady and unable

to maintain herself is not liable to be quashed at its threshold. 12. I have considered submissions made by both the parties. 13. The main grounds upon which the petitioner has sought for quashing

of the maintenance proceeding under section 125 Cr.P.C. are as follows as

appearing from the submissions made by the petitioner. 5 (i) That after receiving summon in respect of the suit filed by the

 petitioner for nullity of marriage the opposite party/wife filed

 two cases one under section 498A / 406 / 34 of IPC and present

 proceeding under section 125 of the Code on the self-same

 allegation. This court on the basis of petitioner's prayer has

 already quashed the criminal proceeding with certain

 observation and which clearly established that no amount of

 cruelty or torture or harassment was inflicted upon the opposite

 party/wife by the petitioner or his family members at any point

 of time. (ii) Opposite party wife is highly educated women having a

 professional MBA degree from a reputed institute of the country

 and she is capable of working at ease. (iii) The opposite party wife belongs to a rich family, lives in an Air

 Conditioned luxurious flat and owning personal car and driver

 and is a single child whose father was an employee of Air Port

 Authority of India and for which the question of vagrancies and

 destitution as envisaged under section 125 Cr.P.C. is not at all

 applicable for the opposite party herein. (iv) Status of husband and wife in the instant case is not yet been

 established since according to petitioner it's a pre-planned

 marriage arranged by the opposite party and as such opposite

 party cannot claim herself as wife of the petitioner herein. (v) Opposite party falsely alleged under sworn in affidavit in the

 maintenance petition that she was physically and mentally 6 tortured at her matrimonial home and she was subject to dowry

 harassment and that her husband tortured her and ultimately

 drove her out from her matrimonial house. Such statements

 made on oath by the petitioner has been proved as false as she

 herself averred that she left her matrimonial home of her own

 accord with her father on 03.03.2016 evening for some medical

 test. 14. Needless to say that the main object of introducing section 498A in I.P.C is to combat with the menace of dowry death and cruelty. What is

'cruelty' has been defined in the explanation to section 498A which says that

the prosecution has to establish firstly the wilful conduct of the offender

secondly that the nature of such conduct was likely to drive a women to

commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life or limb (whether

mental or physical). Accordingly if it is not conclusively established that

beating and harassment was with a view to force her to commit suicide or to

fulfil illegal demands of the husband and in laws, the provisions of section

498A would not be attracted to make out a case of cruelty. Accordingly the

degree of intensity of conduct on the part of the accused to constitute

cruelty as defined in the said section is to be proved beyond reasonable

doubt and it is not enough that conduct of the accused is wilful and is

offensively unjust to the women. The words 'wilful conduct' in the first

clause of the explanation makes it clear that anything done or having

happened accidently or negligently cannot be treated as cruelty. 15. On the other hand the ingredients for filing an application for

maintenance is something different. Said provision under chapter IX of the 7 Code of Criminal Procedure provides that in cases where husband has

sufficient means neglects or refuses to maintain his wife who is unable to

maintain herself, she is entitled to maintenance upon proof of such neglect

or refusal. Here the term "neglects" or "refuses" is important. "Neglect"

means the fact of disregarding or paying no attention to a person. To

disregard or to treat with no regard or attention or with too little to treat

with respect are treated as neglect. The dictionary meaning of the word

"refuses" is declines. Thus the word "refuses" implies and connotes a

positive idea or positive act of not conceding to a proposal made legitimately.

According to that section neglect or refusal is a sine qua non for a wife to be

entitled to maintenance from the husband. However refusal or neglect can

be express or implied and it can be by words or by conduct. There can be

different shades of neglect or refusal and without trial it is hardly possible to

conclude as to whether there was any refusal or neglect or not at this

budding stage of the proceeding. 16. In the case in hand, in her application under section 125 of the Code

of Criminal Procedure the wife/opposite party herein made specific

allegations in paragraph 4 to 14 in order to prove her case of refusal or

neglect on the part of the Petitioner/Opposite party and that she has been

unjustly deserted. In this context it is to be mentioned that the conduct of

wife/opposite party during her stay at her matrimonial house may not be

the sole parameter to be considered before granting maintenance under 125 Cr.P.C . Said provision being a welfare legislation is not supposed to be

construed what is likely to be construed to prove a case beyond reasonable

doubt under section 498A I.P.C. or Under Section 406 of the IPC. 8 17. It is true that the petitioner herein challenging the legality and validity

of the marriage has filed a suit which is pending before competent court of

law but the opposite party wife in her application in paragraph 3 has

categorially stated that the marriage was registered under the special Marriage Act 1954 and at the same time formalities of Hindu Marriage was

also observed on 22.02.2016 and 24.02.2016. Accordingly unless and until

the said marriage has been declared as null and void by a competent court

of law, there is no bar to describe opposite party herein as 'wife' of the

petitioner. 18. In support of quashing the said proceeding under section 125 of the

Code, the petitioner herein has taken a specific plea that the opposite

party/wife is highly qualified and capable of working at ease. There is a

difference between 'capable of earning' and 'actually earning' which has been

highlighted in Sailoja and others Vs. Khobanna (supra) wherein the court

held women who are qualified to earn would not be barred from claiming

maintenance. Moreover, since no evidence has yet been adduced in the

present case it cannot be assumed at this stage that the Opposite party/wife

qualified to earn, is in fact earning as held in Swapan Kumar Banerjee Vs.

The state of West Bengal and others (supra). In Rajnish Vs. Neha

(supra) the Apex Court laid down guidelines for determination of

maintenance and in that judgment it has been decisively established that

even if the wife is earning, it cannot operate as a bar from being awarded

maintenance by the husband. The duty of the court is to look at the income

she is earning in and of itself and from that to determine whether or not she

is capable of sustaining herself in the manner and lifestyle to which she is 9 accustomed to in the husband's house. This ratio has been reiterated in

subsequent judgment in Sunita Kachwaha and others Vs. Anil

Kachwaha (supra) which states that the mere fact that the wife was

earning some income could not be enough to disentitle to her from her right

to maintenance. Relying upon this judgment Bombay High Court in Sanjoy

Damodar Kale Vs. Kalyan Sanjan kale (supra) held that neither the

potential to earn nor the meagre earning of the wife would have any bearing

upon her right to maintenance. 19. The case law cited by the petitioner in Manamohan Singh (supra) is

factually different as in the present case wife opposite party specifically

averred in para 15 of her application that petitioner/wife does not have any

independent income, which was not there in aforesaid cited case. The other

case laws are also not applicable in the present context, since they are

factually different and prayer has not been made to quash Section 125

proceeding in those cases at the threshold. 20. In the case of state of Haryana Vs. Bhajanlal reported in AIR 1992

SC 604 Apex Court has clearly laid down the cases where a criminal

proceeding can be quashed. Judging the present case in the touchstone of

the principles laid down in paragraph 108 of in the said judgment, I find

that this is not a fit case where invoking jurisdiction under section 482 of

the Code of Criminal procedure the present proceeding, can be quashed on

the basis of the judgment passed in favour of the petitioner wherein criminal

proceeding under section 498A/406/ 34 was quashed. 21. Learned counsel for the opposite party in this context has also drawn

my attention to an order dated 28.07.2023 passed by this High Court in 10 CRR No. 1832 of 2022 arising out of an-execution proceeding from the

aforesaid maintenance case wherein this court held that under no

circumstances the trial of present maintenance case being M. 515 of 2016

be further stalled and the same should be taken to its logical conclusion

within a reasonable period of time and completed within a year from the

date of communication of the order before the learned Trial Court and this

court refused to interfere in the said Revisional Application to quash or set

aside or stay the execution petition being M. Ex 67 of 2022 arising out of the

present maintenance case being M.515 of 2016 till disposal of perjury

proceeding at the court below. 22. In view of aforesaid discussion CRR 4329 of 2022 is dismissed.

Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be given to the

parties upon compliance of all requisite formalities. (AJOY KUMAR MUKHERJEE, J.) 11