What’s the news: Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA) is using drones to address electricity thefts in high-line loss areas, reported the Hindustan Times on June 10, 2024. Drones help the staff monitor houses in narrow lanes during the night and early morning hours to gather evidence against power thieves. Here, an important question is which government department is responsible for deploying these drones.

This method was first used in Saadatganj and Shardanagar, where officials took legal action against at least 11 individuals after a dozen houses were caught using illegal connections. Junior Engineer Rajesh Kumar led the latest drone raid at Hata Noor Beg around 6 AM. The drone found numerous air conditioners and coolers operating on illegal connections. According to Kumar, such theft requires access to rooftops, which can lead to confrontations. He added that the judicious use of drone technology will revolutionize documenting illegal activities.

On November 9, 2023, the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet announced that the state police would monitor drone activities in Uttar Pradesh. It approved the “Uttar Pradesh Drone Prachalan Suraksha Niti, 2023” for mandatory registration of drones to help the police keep track of the presence of drones in their respective areas. Further, the government said it would announce red, green, and yellow zones within the state for flying drones.

So far, MediaNama has not found any formal announcement of such zones in Uttar Pradesh. Regardless, the announcement paired with the above news about electricity theft detection raises the question of who oversees the operation of these drones. This is crucial in light of the following questions:

The authorities must answer these questions that affect people’s privacy and consent rights. Some may argue that the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 exempts government agencies from asking for consent before collecting such data. However, the list of exempt government agencies has not yet been made public.

Moreover, the Act focused on central government activities rather than the state governments. Considering that the Union Civil Aviation Ministry talked about separate sets of guidelines for drone usage for civilian purposes and defense or law enforcement purposes, this again begs the question of which department is responsible for the LESA drones. These questions are important for the folks affected by the drone monitoring, who may want their data either reviewed or deleted.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event