by Viswanath L

The opposition to Aadhaar mostly centres on the issues of surveillance and privacy. While these are very important issues, the lofty platform on which Aadhaar stands is supported on the myth that biometric-based identity is infallible, robust and safe. None of this is true, which therefore brings into question the very utility of Aadhaar, as also the unforeseen complications it may cause.

Need to update biometric information throughout lifetime

This is enshrined in sections 6 and 31(2) of the Aadhaar Act.

What biometric authentication, when the purpose is to update the biometrics? Is there implied expectation that the person is supposed to revisit the enrolment centre before all ten fingers and two irises go out of range?

No access to biometric records in the database

Section 28(5) of the Aadhaar Act disallows an individual access to the biometric information that forms the core of his unique ID.

Uncertainty of biometric authentication

Under various sections of the Aadhaar Act (sections 4(3), 7, 8 and 57), an individual may be required to undergo biometric authentication as proof of identity.

Risk of identity theft

Use of biometric authentication as a means of identity presents a persistent and immitigable risk of identity theft. The UIDAI’s defence is on three counts:

one, the database is sufficiently encrypted and protected against breaches; two, biometric collection at the authentication end is encrypted (either in software or in hardware); three, there are penal provisions in the Aadhaar Act to deter any unauthorized access. But the technology behind Aadhaar is such that none of these measures is of any worth.

***

Cross-posted with permission from the author

Viswanath L is an engineering professional working in Bengaluru and has been following the Aadhaar program closely since inception. He is of the firm conviction that Aadhaar is the biggest con in the history of independent India.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event