SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Do not buy from FLIPKART - [I bought a Sansui55INCHTv] - They will not honour their own return/warranty policy nor they have any sense of after sales service after taking your money! They are just a glorified scam platform to sell defective products![RANT]
DATE: 2017-07-28
SCORE: 46
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6q2olh/do_not_buy_from_flipkart_i_bought_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

UPDATE1 --- 
I was able to get my matter resolved with Flipkart and they picked up the TV and are processing the refund. 
After waiting it out I was able to dig out the E Mail IDs of their grievance officer and the CEOs. I sent out a mail stating my grievances and also informing that in case the issue is not attended to I will be planning to take legal recourse. Within 24 hours their senior team got in touch and swinged into action. Thereafter they promised to conclude the matter. Apparently the whole issue is to do with Sansui's pathetic after sale service and they are to blamed! Fortunately since I rasied the complaint in the return period Flipkart just picked up the TV and is now processing my refund. Although I feel the customer care at Flipkart should have been able to do this as soon as my complaint was raised but since they indeed honored their policy I have no more grudges against them but only advise to improve their turnaround time. As for SANSUI I urge you all to refrain buying their products as I reached their after sales team multiple times, sent them messages, called them numerous times but their failed to show up! Retailers and ECommerce companies should blacklist such brands!
-------

MY ACTUAL POST BEFORE THE ISSUE WAS RESOLVED IS BELOW

I post this long rant here to forewarn any one who intends to make expensive purchases from Flipkart and also Sansui India. In my dealing with them since past few days I have learnt that they have ZERO sense of responsibility after selling a defective product and its just a bunch of incompetent customer representatives making false assurances. Mind you that I stay in capital of India - New Delhi which is a top metro where both these companies have local offices and established service networks hence it should not take so long to provide a resolution.

I purchased a Sansui 55 Inch Ultra 4K TV from Flipkart assuming they are a reliable and renowned website. I bought it from a Flipkart assured seller which is probably their own company - OmnitechRetail. It was covered by a 10 days Return policy which covers either replacement or refund. Moreover the TV also came with a 3 Years extended warranty by Sansui in the price that I bought at Rs 49000 [heavily discounted from Rs 69000 in their pre GST Sale] 

The installation and demo went on smoothly from Sansui after 2 days of the delivery of the TV. Thereafter I started noticing that the TVs colour displays and picture rendition had issues. These were not problems with colour settings but apparently it was RGB issue thus displaying colours off or spreading them out with distortion in the image. I raised my complaint with Flipkart prior to completion of the return period after trying to tweak all settings but noticing the issue persisted. The complaint was raised on 12th July and I was assured that it would be addressed by Sansui by 15th July. Moreover since Flipkart did not have a product in stock they told me instead of replacement they would offer a refund once the technical rep visits and reviews the issue.

It is almost 16 days that neither Flipkart nor Sansui has addressed this issue. I have been contacting Flipkart daily through phone, E Mail and Facebook. They revert rather quickly on Facebook with preset responses in their system stating that they need more time and be patient but still not making it clear how they intend to close the issue which was supposed to be concluded by 15th July. 

Sansui is far worse in their after sale service. I raised a complaint with them as well through their call centre. Their own call centre then gave me multiple number of their branch service heads. I keep calling the call centre daily following up on complaint. These so called branch service don’t answer their phones. Twice I got lucky and spoke to the head who stated to have seen my complaint in the system and will try to send a Senior technician to check whether the TV has a problem with TCON Board or Picture Control board. He assured me since TV is new they would rather replace the TV. Since then no one has bothered to visit nor the call centre has any status update and asked me to wait. I reached them through Facebook and they responded that they have taken note of my complaint and some one will address it. Sadly no one has reached out to me. 

This is the state of how things work at Flipkart and Sansui whereby if you are saddled with a defective product even covered under return policy or extended warranty, do no expect a resolution anytime soon. I am totally disgusted with approach of Flipkart and hold them responsible since I purchased the TV from them. Being first point of contact and sale as per their policy they should now refund my money since they do not have a replacement in stock. 

I am planning to take legal recourse now that both the companies have failed to honour their own policies which are documented by me. I appreciate if others here could guide me so that I take this matter to highest level in Flipkart and also on how I can file a complaint against them under IPC 420 for fraud/cheating. In meanwhile I hope others would be sensible and not trust these two companies with your money. Let my misery be a lesson to all that it is far better to deal with brick and mortar stores in case of expensive electronics than trusting Flipkart.