% 31.10.2025 1. The present petition under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik
 Suraksha Sanhita, 20231 (corresponding to Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 19732) seeks quashing of FIR No. 504/2024, registered
 under Sections 74 and 75 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 20233 at P.S.
 Prashant Vihar, Dist. Rohini, Delhi and all consequential proceedings
 emanating therefrom. 2. The case of the prosecution emanates from a complaint filed by
 Respondent No. 2, alleging that she was subjected to sexual harassment and 1 "BNSS" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/11/2025 at 21:28:48
 molestation by the Petitioner, a Counsellor posted at the Rohini District
 Courts, during counselling sessions in connection with her matrimonial
 proceedings bearing Case No. HMA 575/2024. It is alleged that during one
 such session held on 1st January, 2024, when the complainant was called
 alone for counselling, the Counsellor misbehaved with her by making
 inappropriate physical contact and passing sexually explicit remarks, and
 prevented her from leaving the room. Based on this complainant, the subject
 FIR came to be registered. 3. Pertinently, the Petitioner had also filed a complaint against
 Respondent No. 2, bearing FIR No. 265/2025 at P.S. Prashant Vihar under
 the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of
 Atrocities) Act, 1989 . Upon conclusion of investigation, a cancellation
 report has been filed in the said case. 4. Respondent No. 2 has amicably resolved the dispute with the
 Petitioner and has decided not to pursue the present FIR against him.
 Pursuant to this settlement, a Settlement Agreement dated 14th October,
 2025 has been executed between the Petitioner and Respondent No. 2, copy
 whereof has been placed on record and perused by the Court. As per its
 terms, Respondent No. 2 has mutually resolved all disputes and differences
 with the Petitioner and has agreed to voluntarily give her no objection to the
 quashing of the subject FIR. In turn, the Petitioner has also agreed not to
 pursue the proceedings in FIR No. 265/2025 against Respondent No. 2. 5. In view of the settlement, the Complainant, who appears before the
 Court in person and is identified by the Investigating Officer, unequivocally
 states that she does not wish to pursue the FIR proceedings. She confirms
 that her decision to settle the matter is voluntary and made without any CRL.M.C. 7655/2025 Page 2 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/11/2025 at 21:28:48
 undue influence or coercion. In light of the amicable resolution between the
 parties, the Petitioner seeks quashing of the subject FIR and all proceedings
 arising therefrom. 6. The Court has considered the submissions of the parties. While the
 offences under Sections 74 and 75 of the BNS are non-compoundable, it is
 well settled that in the exercise of its inherent powers under Section 482 CrPC (now Section 528 BNSS), the Court may, in appropriate cases, quash
 proceedings in respect of non-compoundable offences if the parties have
 reached a genuine settlement and no overarching public interest is adversely
 affected. The Supreme Court in Gian Singh v. State of Punjab & Anr.4 has
 held as follows: [Emphasis added] 7. Further, in Narinder Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Anr.,5 the
 Supreme Court held as follows: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/11/2025 at 21:28:48
 proceedings: While exercising the power the High Court is to form an opinion on
 either of the aforesaid two objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in those prosecutions which
 involve heinous and serious offences of mental depravity or offences
 like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not private in nature
 and have a serious impact on society. Similarly, for the offences
 alleged to have been committed under special statute like the Prevention of Corruption Act or the offences committed by public
 servants while working in that capacity are not to be quashed merely
 on the basis of compromise between the victim and the offender.
 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases having overwhelmingly
 and predominantly civil character, particularly those arising out of
 commercial transactions or arising out of matrimonial relationship or
 family disputes should be quashed when the parties have resolved
 their entire disputes among themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High Court is to examine as to
 whether the possibility of conviction is remote and bleak and
 continuation of criminal cases would put the accused to great
 oppression and prejudice and extreme injustice would be caused to
 him by not quashing the criminal cases." [Emphasis Supplied] 8. Although the offences under Sections 74 and 75 of the BNS cannot be
 treated as strictly 'in personam', and touch upon public concerns rather than
 being confined to individual grievances, the Court must also account for the
 practical realities of securing a conviction in the present case. The Supreme
 Court has consistently held that in cases where the complainant has entered CRL.M.C. 7655/2025 Page 4 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/11/2025 at 21:28:48
 into a voluntary and bona fide settlement, and is no longer inclined to
 support the prosecution, the prospect of securing a conviction becomes
 exceedingly remote. In such circumstances, continuing the prosecution may
 not only prove futile, but would also serve no worthwhile public interest. 9. The Complainant in the present case has categorically expressed her
 unwillingness to pursue the matter further and has confirmed the settlement
 as voluntary and devoid of any coercion. Given this background, the
 continuation of criminal proceedings would amount to an empty formality,
 adding to the burden of the justice system and consuming public resources
 unnecessarily. Having regard to the totality of circumstances, and in view of
 the legal principles laid down by the Supreme Court, this Court finds the
 present case to be an appropriate one for exercise of jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. to secure the ends of justice. 10. In view of the foregoing, the present petition is allowed, and FIR No.
 504/2024, P.S. Prashant Vihar, Dist. Rohini, as well as all consequential
 proceedings arising therefrom are hereby quashed. 11. The parties shall remain bound by the terms of settlement. 12. Accordingly, the petition is disposed of along with pending
 application(s). SANJEEV NARULA, J
 OCTOBER 31, 2025
 nk CRL.M.C. 7655/2025 Page 5 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 05/11/2025 at 21:28:48