% 04.03.2022

 The proceedings in the matter have been conducted through hybrid
 mode [physical and virtual hearing]. 1. This petition under Article 227 of the Constitution is directed
 against an order dated 15.07.2019 passed by the Additional District
 Judge-04, New Delhi, Patiala House Courts in CS No. 915/2018 [Aditya
 Kishore vs. Samsung India Electronics PVT. Ltd. & Ors.]. By the
 impugned order, the Trial Court has allowed the application filed by the
 respondent herein, i.e. the plaintiff in the suit ["the plaintiff"], under Order XI Rule 14 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 [" CPC "], seeking
 production of certain documents by the petitioners herein, i.e. the
 defendant Nos. 1 and 2 in the suit ["the defendants"]. 2. The plaintiff was an employee of the defendant No. 1-Company.
 He has filed the suit for recovery of money and other reliefs alleging
 illegal termination. It is the case of the plaintiff that he made certain
 whistleblowing complaints, which resulted in his termination on
 29.03.2018. 3. In the written statement filed by the defendants, the defendants
 have averred that the termination of the plaintiff was in terms of the
 contract between the parties, and had nothing to do with the complaints
 made by him. However, the defendants have also made certain averments
 relating to complaints against the plaintiff and of his misconduct during
 the period of employment. Such averments can be found inter alia in
 paragraphs 5 and 9 (preliminary objections) and paragraph 20 (reply on
 merits) in the written statement. 4. The plaintiff thereafter filed an application under Order XI Rule 14
 of the CPC , seeking disclosure of the following documents:- performance, lethargy, non-execution of duties, non-
 compliance of company policies as alleged by the
 Defendants. c) Original Defendant Company's Whistle Blowing Policy. d) Original Details of whistle blowing E-mails along with
 proofs and attachments sent by the Plaintiff to HQ Audit and
 Compliance Team of the Defendants on 29th March, 2018. e) Original Defendant Company's service rule, referred
 many times In Written Statement by Defendants. f) Original Documentary proof of alleged data theft or Signature Not Verified Digitally signed CM (M) 1602/2019 Page 2 of 8 By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:07.03.2022 11:06:19 alleged illegitimate activities by Plaintiff during his decade
 long tenure with the Defendant Company. g) Original Documentary evidences of the complaints made
 by the sub ordinates/Team of the Plaintiff as alleged by the
 Defendant Company In Its Written Statement. h) Original Defendant Company's policy and criteria of
 making an HODs. i) Original Defendant Company's Exit Policy and procedure
 for full & final settlement of accounts as well as Original
 Exit Interview of the Plaintiff. j) Original Defendant Company compensation policy
 Including core-staff selection and core-staff bonus." 5. The application was resisted by the defendants on the ground that it
 results in a roving and fishing inquiry, and that the documents are not
 relevant to the adjudication of the case. 6. The Trial Court, by the impugned order, allowed the application,
 finding that the plaintiff's performance, misconduct and complaints
 against him were pleaded by the defendants, and the documents sought by
 the plaintiff were, therefore, relevant. 7. On the first date of hearing in this petition, i.e. 08.11.2019, the
 defendants submitted before the Court that the termination of the plaintiff
 was based purely on the contract of employment and not upon any
 complaints received against him. The defendants submitted that they do
 not wish to press the defence relating to the complaints against the
 plaintiff in the written statement. 8. Subsequently, I am informed by Mr. Sandeep Grover, learned
 counsel for the defendants, and Mr. Anunaya Mehta, learned counsel for
 the plaintiff, that issues have been framed by the Trial Court but evidence
 has not yet commenced. They refer me to the direction given by this Signature Not Verified Digitally signed CM (M) 1602/2019 Page 3 of 8 By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:07.03.2022 11:06:19 Court on 13.03.2020 that the hearings in the suit be deferred beyond the
 dates fixed by this Court. 9. The defendants have now filed an application before this Court, i.e.
 CM APPL. 11122/2022, stating that they wish to carry out certain
 amendments in the written statement, in line with the statement made to
 this Court on 08.11.2019. 10. Mr. Mehta resists the amendment on the ground that the case taken
 by the defendants in the original written statement supports the plaintiff's
 plea of unlawful termination. It is Mr. Mehta's submission that the
 defendant No. 1-Company is bound by Sections 177(9) and (10) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the applicable provisions of the
 Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, under which
 a whistleblower is entitled to protection against victimisation. He submits
 that, by virtue of the proposed amendments, the defendants are attempting
 to obscure the plaintiff's case that the termination was consequent upon
 the complaint made by him. 11. Mr. Grover disputes the applicability of the said provisions to the
 defendant No. 1-Company. In addition, he points out that, in CM APPL.
 11122/2022, the defendants have clearly stated their position with regard
 to each of the documents with which the application is concerned. As far
 as the documents enumerated at serial Nos. (b), (f) and (g) above are
 concerned, the defendants contend that the relevancy of these documents
 would not survive the amendment of the written statement in the terms
 proposed by the defendants. As far as the other documents are concerned,
 the defendants have indicated grounds partially resisting production
 before the Trial Court as, according to the defendants, the documents in Signature Not Verified Digitally signed CM (M) 1602/2019 Page 4 of 8 By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:07.03.2022 11:06:19 the form sought are either not available or do not exist. 12. As far as the order of the Trial Court is concerned, I am of the view
 that it does not suffer from any jurisdictional error or perversity so as to
 invite the interference of this Court under Article 227 of the Constitution,
 on the basis of the written statement, as presently filed by the defendants.
 The Trial Court has taken a view based upon a reading of the written
 statement that, the documents are necessary for the proper adjudication of
 the case, and has also noted that in the reply to the application, the
 defendants have not denied that the documents are in their possession and
 control. The exercise of supervisory jurisdiction by this Court would be
 justified only if such a finding is based on a lack of jurisdiction or a
 complete misreading of the material before the Court. In view of the
 contentions in the written statement mentioned above, no such conclusion
 can be drawn in this case. 13. However, the matter relating to amendment of the written
 statement is required to be considered by the Trial Court, in the event the
 defendants make an application in this regard. As far as the documents
 enumerated at serial Nos. (b), (f) and (g) are concerned, the decision on
 whether those documents are required to be disclosed can be revisited by
 the Trial Court after taking a decision on the application for amendment,
 if it is allowed, wholly or in part. 14. As far as the remaining documents are concerned, it is not the case
 of the defendants that their disclosure would be affected by the proposed
 amendment. The defendants' contention before this Court relates instead
 to the fact that some of the documents, [like the whistleblowing policy,
 service rules, head of department policy and the specific compensation Signature Not Verified Digitally signed CM (M) 1602/2019 Page 5 of 8 By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:07.03.2022 11:06:19 policy] are not in existence in the defendant No. 1-Company at all. As far
 as the yearly appraisals of the plaintiff are concerned, the defendants
 claim to have the yearly appraisals only for the years 2015 to 2017. The
 document at serial No. (d) relates to an email sent by the plaintiff
 alongwith attachments from the server of the defendants during the period
 of his employment. It is the plaintiff's case that he does not have an
 electronic version of the said document or its attachments, and only has a
 printout [that too, without attachments] in respect of which he is unable to
 provide a certificate under Section 65B , Indian Evidence Act, 1872. In
 the application filed by the defendants before this Court, the plea taken is
 only that the document is in the possession of the plaintiff and has been
 placed on record with the plaint. As the availability and possession of the
 document is not denied by the defendants and does appear to be relevant
 to the adjudication of the case, the defendants are required to produce the
 said document also. 15. For the reasons aforesaid, it is directed as follows:- b. The defendants have, in CM APPL. 11122/2022 filed before
 this Court, indicated that they have a Global Code of Signature Not Verified Digitally signed CM (M) 1602/2019 Page 6 of 8 By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:07.03.2022 11:06:19 Conduct Policy (as opposed to a whistleblowing policy), and
 certain specific policies and rules regarding leave, travel,
 medical reimbursement etc. (as opposed to service rules).
 Those will be produced alongwith the documents disclosed
 on the next date of hearing before the Trial Court, without
 prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties
 regarding the documents sought by the plaintiff.
 c. In the event the defendants wish to amend the written
 statement, they will make an application before the Trial
 Court in this regard on or before the next date of hearing in
 the Trial Court, which will be adjudicated on its own merits.
 The merits of the application for amendment are a matter for
 the Trial Court to decide, and this Court is not required to
 make any comment thereupon. d. If such an application is made and the amendments sought
 by the defendants are allowed, wholly or in part, the Trial
 Court will reconsider whether the documents sought at serial
 Nos. (b), (f) and (g) are required to be disclosed or not. If no
 such application is made on the next date of hearing before
 the Trial Court, or the application comes to be dismissed, the
 defendants will disclose the documents at serial Nos. (b), (f), (g) on the date fixed by the Trial Court for the purpose. In
 the event, any of the said documents are not disclosed, for
 example, on the ground that they do not exist, the defendants
 will state the grounds on affidavit and it is open to the Trial
 Court to proceed further in that regard, in accordance with Signature Not Verified Digitally signed CM (M) 1602/2019 Page 7 of 8 By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:07.03.2022 11:06:19 law. 16. The petition, alongwith the pending applications, is disposed of in
 these terms, but without any order of costs. PRATEEK JALAN, J
 MARCH 4, 2022
 „vp‟/ Signature Not Verified Digitally signed CM (M) 1602/2019 Page 8 of 8 By:SHITU NAGPAL Signing Date:07.03.2022 11:06:19