SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Replacing Income Tax with Consumption Tax [R]
DATE: 2014-01-05
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1uflzg/replacing_income_tax_with_consumption_tax_r/

--- POST TEXT ---

Recent news items say that the BJP has started to float this audacious idea. The idea is to completely do away with income and other taxes, replacing them with a consumption tax. It is audacious because it will be a firm reversal of the direction India has been heading since 1947. This is a political gold mine for the BJP, provided the idiots in it do not screw up the message. 

This change will be *awesome* for the salaried middle class, at least on the face of it. It is taxed heavily, cannot evade its taxes unlike other sections and sees government revenues - mostly *its* money - squandered on harebrained ideas and lost in scams. This might well move the middle class to vote en masse for the BJP. Even the heavily unionized public sector employees who are a visible percentage of India's population will welcome it because they will get to carry home a lot more, especially if they are paid more instead of being doled out goods as they are now. The Congress cannot follow easily, because they cannot easily say, "Vote for us and we'll get rid of your income tax". The AAP may do that, but it is my guess that they are too Left-heavy to do that easily. 

Briefly, the argument in favor of them is that consumption taxes incentivize savings and investment. There is also the argument that tax rate changes instantly show up on the measured activities. 

The argument against them is that they penalize the lower income tiers. But in India, the basic necessities are highly subsidized. Specific examples are Food Distribution and now the FSB, extensive public transportation, near free utilities etc. In most cities in the US, you would need to drive, and thereby would need to buy a car, buy fuel etc. In India, you can hop on to a bus or train and get to wherever you want, a lot more efficiently. So the lower income tiers are not going to be penalized by this system. More money for investment would mean more economic activity, and more jobs for them and higher incomes.

I am assuming that most of us in this subreddit are middle class or at least grew up middle class. What do you think of this idea, regardless of which party implements it?