: The CPIO furnished a reply to the appellant on 15.04.2020 stating as under:- Being dissatisfied, the appellant filed a First Appeal dated 19.04.2020. FAA's order
dated 12.05.2020, upheld the reply of CPIO stating as under: Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, the appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal stating as under: Relevant Facts emerging during Hearing: xxx 30. The gist of aforementioned facts have been brought out succinctly in the
following words: In pursuance of alleged incident of sexual harassment, Mr.
Harmohan Arora, Mr. Naresh kumar & Mr. Atul Kumar Goel allegedly in complicity
with the AIBOC Leaders, among other conspirators hatched a criminal conspiracy
against me, thereby colluding with one another, they attempted to muzzle the
complaints of grievous nature filed against them, throw me out of bank's
premises, forcibly transferred and illegally suspended my service, cropped up
forged and fabricated complaints, dodged my requests to provide copies of crucial
pieces of evidence, and cropped up as many as three (03) bogus inquiries against
me, with an ulterior motive of wielding quasi-judicial powers, as a tool for a witch-
hunt and a means to ensure that a pendora's box is not opened. I was allegedly
faced with gang of powerful leaders and executives, who in order favour
perpetrators abused their powers recurrently, and illegally threw me out of the
services, that caused me a wrongful loss to the tune of 20 lakh approx. in terms of
emoluments, & also caused irreparable harm to my body, mind and reputation;
that I was removed from the bank's service without passing any final Order w. r. t
the inquiry proceedings conducted into the allegations of sexual harassment; that
at the same, time, all the complaints alleging said top executives of the bank of
having committed various corrupt activities, are pending for their disposal at UCO
bank's end, and thereby suppressing material facts stated therein the said
complaints, I have been illegally removed from the service, just to ensure that
pendora's box is not opened. A Writ petition to this effect bearing Ref. No.
5092/2021 has been filed before the Bombay High Court." As far as the information sought for in the RTI Application is concerned, the
Commission observes that whatever clarity was lacking in the CPIO's factual reply
has been adequately mitigated by the FAA by explaining the unavailability of
information wherever applicable and invoking the exemptions of Section 8(1)(g) and 8(1)(d) of the RTI Act along with proper reasoning. As regards the angst of the Appellant against Harmohan Arora for having presided
as the FAA in the matter, the Commission notes that in the absence of any
provision in the RTI Act that allows to challenge the adjudication of the First
Appeal by Harmohan Arora as the FAA in the instant matter and for the absence 8 of any malafides or deliberate denial of information evinced from the FAA's order,
no action is warranted against the FAA. Similarly, a bare perusal of the grounds of the Appellant's dissatisfaction as
communicated through her appeal grounds as well as her written submissions
suggest that she is questioning the merits of the action/inaction of the
Respondent office against her sexual harassment complaint; merits of the
suspension order issued to her and issues related thereto. None of these aspects
of the case are amenable to the jurisdiction of the Commission under the RTI Act or are answerable by the CPIO within his mandate under the Act. Here, the
Appellant is advised about the powers of the Commission under the RTI Act by
relying on certain precedents of the superior Courts as under: While, the Apex Court in the matter of Union of India vs Namit Sharma (Review
Petition [C] No.2309 of 2012) dated 03.09.2013 observed as under: