S.B. SINHA, J. INTRODUCTION

 These six appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 4th

December, 2003 passed by the Special Court in Case No.2 of 1993 whereby

and whereunder the appellants herein were convicted and sentenced in the

following terms :- BACKGROUND FACTS

 While accused No.1, K. Margabandhu, at the relevant time, was the

Chairman and Managing Director of United Commercial Bank (UCO Bank),

(a public sector bank), accused No.2, Ramaiya Venkatkrishnan was the

General Manager and accused No.3, S.V. Ramnathan was the Divisional

Manager thereof of the Bombay Branch. accused No.4, Harshad Shantilal Mehta (Harshad Mehta) is said to be

the kingpin of the whole operation. He is no more. accused No.5, Atul Manubhai Parekh was working as Asst. Vice

President in M/s. Growmore Research and Assets Management Ltd.

Bombay and representing Harshad Mehta in the matter of undertaking

security transactions. accused No.6 Coodli Ravi Kumar was Assistant General Manager of

National Housing Bank (NHB), Bombay and was in charge of its Funds

Department. accused No.7, Seethapathy Suresh Babu was the Assistant

Manager of National Housing Bank. He used to report to Accused No.6, 3 Shri Coodli Ravi Kumar in regard to his function and worked under his

instructions. The basic allegation against the appellants and Late Harshad Mehta

was that some transactions were carried out in connivance with the officials

of the Financial Institutions, Banks illegally as a result whereof Late

Harshad Mehta was allowed to obtain a sum of Rs.40 crores which was

actually `Call Money' given as a loan by the National Housing Bank to the

UCO Bank. Similar illegal transactions relating to government securities and other

non governmental securities came to the notice of the Central Government.

A Committee commonly known as `Janakiraman Committee' was thereafter

constituted, Shri R. Janakiraman, the then Deputy Governor of Reserve

Bank of India was appointed as its Chairman. The Committee submitted its

report between May, 1992 and April, 1993. On the basis of the report of the

said Committee, Special Courts were constituted in terms of The Special

Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1993 . Allegations against the appellants and late Harshad Mehta were as

under:- 4 Sanctioning Authority 2. Shri P. Arvindak Shah 6 General Manager, Reserve Bank of India,
 Production Witness 3. Ravi Vira Gupta
 Chairman, National Housing Bank,
 Sanctioning Authority 4. Shri B.L. Sachdeva,
 Under Secretary in the Ministry of Finance in
 Banking Division 5. Shri Hiten D. Mehta,
 Employee of late Shri Harshad S. Mehta 6. Shri N.A. Shivraman,
 Assistant, Funds Department,
 National Housing Bank 7. Shri Sunil Pandurang Gondhale,
 Peon, National Housing Bank 8. Jeroo Dalal,
 Management Trainee, ANZ Grindlays Bank 9. Shri Satish D. Hosangadi,
 Chief General Manager, National Housing Bank. 10. Mrs. Jyoti R. Patankar,
 Officer, Reserve Bank of India Production Witness 11. Sujata Milind Nimbalkar,
 ANZ Grindlays Bank Production Witness 7 12. Shri Sunil Kakkar,
 Assistant Chief Officer, UCO Bank, Head Office,
 Kolkata. 13. Shri Chinmoykumar Mukherjee,
 Assistant Chief Officer, UCO Bank,
 Kolkata 14. Shri K. Vijayan,
 Manager, Accounts Department, D.N. Road
 Branch, UCO Bank 15. Shri Manohar C. Rupani
 Assistant Manager, D.N. Road Branch, UCO Bank 16. Neelam P. Kini
 Clerk, Hamam Street Branch, UCO Bank. 17. Shri K. Mallikarjunan,
 Officer, UCO Bank, Head Office, Kolkata 18. Shri Pradeep A. Karkhanis,
 Senior Manager, UCO Bank, Hamam Street
 Branch 19. Shri Sitaram Premaram Paladia,
 Supdt. Of Police, C.B.I. 20. Shri P.K. Mankar,
 Dy. S.P. C.B.I. 8 For proving charges against accused No.1, evidence of P.W. No. 4

Shri B.L. Sachdeva, PW-12, Shri Sunil Kakkar; PW-13, Shri

Chinkmoykumar Mukehrjee and PW-17, Shri K. Mallkarjunan are relevant.

Accused No.1 also examined defence witnesses inter alia contending that on

6th April, 1992 he was not present at the Head Office till 3.30 p.m. It was

furthermore contended that the transactions in question were held by and

between NHB and accused No.4 and the officers of UCO Bank had nothing

to do therewith. The depositions of the said witnesses are also relevant for

proving the charges so far as accused No.2 is concerned. His defence was

that the offence of conspiracy has not been proved. It is his case that the

purported decision to arrange for call money had not been taken by him

alone as per the statement of PW-3, P. Arvindk Shah and PW-17, K.

Mallikaarjunan, but by the Chairman-cum-Managing Director of UCO

Bank. With a view to prove the charges against accused No.3 the learned

Special Court relied upon the evidence of PW-1, Shri Bishwajit Choudhuri,

PW-13, Shri Chinmoykumar Mukherjee, PW-16, Neelam P. Kini and PW-

18, Pradeep A. Karkhanis. His defence was that on the basis of the

documentary as well as oral evidence, the prosecution had not been able to

prove his involvement either for commission of the offence in conspiracy or 9 in commission of any other offence. The only evidence against him being

that on 6th April, 1992 he had gone to Hamam Street Branch of the UCO

Bank and at that time accused No.5 was also present and the fact that he had

sent a letter for reviving the transaction with broker Late Harshad Mehta

from the Hamam Street Branch by itself does not prove the offence. So far as accused No.5 is concerned, the prosecution had relied upon

the evidence of PW-5, Shri Hiten D. Metha, who was an employee of Late

Harshad Mehta. He in his deposition stated that he used to make telephone

calls the documents were prepared for repayment of Rs.40 crores on

instructions from accused No.5, Atul M. Parekh. The defence of the said

accused was that he was merely an employee and had been looking after the

execution of the transactions after the deal had been finalized under the

instructions of Harshad Metha. He being an employee could not be a party

to the conspiracy nor the prosecution had been able to show that he had any

role to play in the transaction. Admittedly accused No.6, C. Ravikumar, was a dealer with NHB.

The prosecution relied upon the deposition of PW-3, Ravi Vira Gupta to

prove the order of sanction, validity whereof is in question. The prosecution

for proving charge against him relied upon the deposition of PW-5, Hiten D. 10 Mehta, who was working with Late Harshad Mehta. Reliance by the

prosecution has also been placed on the evidence of PW-6, Shri N.A.

Shivraman, who was working as Assistant, Funds Department, NHB from

27th January, 1991 to 31st December, 1991. Reliance has also been placed in

this behalf on the deposition of PW-9, Shri Satish D. Hosangadi, who at the

relevant time was the Chief General Manager of NHB. For proving the charges against accused No.7, the prosecution has

relied upon the depositions of PW-6, Shri N.A. Shivraman and PW-9, Shri

Satish D. Hosangadi. Accused Nos. 1 to 3 and 6 & 7 were public servants. Orders of sanction for their prosecution were passed by the competent

authorities. Accused Nos. 6 and 7 challenged the validity of the said orders

of sanction before the courts below. All the accused persons had been charged for commission of offences

punishable under Section 120-B read with Section 409 and Section 34 of the

Indian Penal Code and Section 13(1)(d)(iii) r/w Sections 13(2) of the

Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. 11 JUDGMENT OF THE SPECIAL COURT

 The learned Special Court in its impugned judgment referred to the

decision of Ram Narayan Popli v. Central Bureau of Investigation ,

[(2003) 3 SCC 641 ] in extenso so as to note the ingredients for commission

of the offence of conspiracy to conclude :- Referring to the statement of accused No.1 it was furthermore held :- Yet again upon referring to the deposition of PW-5, Hiten D. Mehta

and PW-18, Pradeep A. Karkhanis, the learned court held :- 12 Referring to the other cases vis-`-vis accused Nos. 6 and 7, it was

opined :- The learned Special Court thereafter considered the question as to

whether the `transfer' was illegal within the meaning of Section 43 of the

Indian Penal Code in the light of the provisions of Section 14 of the NHB

Act, holding :- So far as the purported offence in regard to criminal breach of trust is

concerned, the learned Judge held that the same stood proved against the

officers of the Bank. However, so far as accused No.5 is concerned, the

same was held to have not been proved, although it was held that he was

guilty of commission of offence of conspiracy. So far as the offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 is

concerned, a finding has also been arrived at that the charges under the said

provisions have been proved. The learned Special Court also negated the contention of accused

Nos.6 and 7 that the order of sanction passed against them are not valid.

SUBMISSIONS

The principal contentions raised on behalf of the appellants are :- 15 9) The documents proved on behalf of the prosecution do not disclose

 that the accused and in particular accused Nos. 1 and 2 had any

 intention to commit the alleged offence. 10) Accused No.2 having signed only two documents and accused

 No.1 having put his initials only on one document, they could not

 be held to be a party to the alleged conspiracy. 17 11) Witnesses, PW No. 5 - Hiten D. Mehta; PW No.12 Sunil Kakkar; PW No. 13 - Chinmoykumar Mukherjee; PW No. 17 - K.

 Mallikaarjunan and PW No. 18 - Pradeep A. Karkhanis, having

 regard to Section 163 of the Evidence Act, 1872 read with

 illustrations appended to clause VIII of Section 114 of the

 Evidence Act, 1872, could not have been relied upon by the

 learned Special Court without any corroboration of their

 statements. In any view of the matter, evidence of one accomplice

 cannot be taken into consideration for the purpose of corroboration

 of the evidence of another alleged accomplice. 12) In a case of this nature, where the conspiracy was alleged in regard

 to a legal act by illegal means, active participation by each one of

 them must have been held to be imperative in character and in its

 absence, they could not be held guilty of commission of any

 offence. 13) Accused No.3, who was only Scale IV officer and posted at

 Hamam Street Branch of UCO Bank, visited D.N. Road Branch

 and he had issued a circular for reviving account of three brokers 18 including Late Harshad Mehta, the same by itself does not lead to a

 conclusion that he had committed the offence. 14) On behalf of accused No.5, it was submitted that being an

 employee of Late Harshad Mehta and having acted on his

 instructions, he cannot be held to have committed an offence of

 conspiracy only because he had visited the banks and /or was in

 touch with some of their officers for the purpose of ascertaining

 the position of accounts of Mehta. 15) Accused No.6 merely being signatory to the cheque of Rs. 40

 crores issued in favour of UCO Bank which has been cleared by

 the Reserve Bank of India cannot be presumed to have any

 knowledge of diversion of the said amount by the officers of UCO

 Bank in the account of Late Harshad Mehta and the purported

 refund of the said amount with interest by him through ANZ

 Grindlays Bank, and as such he cannot be said to have committed

 the offence of conspiracy. . 16) Accused No.7 merely being an Assistant Manager and having

 discharged his functions acting under the directions of accused 19 No.6 and other higher officers cannot be said to have committed

 any offence as alleged or at all. 17) Departmental proceedings having not been initiated by the

 employers and neither the UCO Bank nor the NHB having suffered

 any loss, the judgment of conviction for criminal breach of trust is

 wholly unsustainable. 18) The learned Special Court having not assigned any reason and

 having not discussed the materials brought on record in details,

 must be held to have acted illegally and without jurisdiction in

 passing the impugned judgment. 19) The transfer of money being not `securities' within the meaning of

 the provisions of Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to

 Transactions in Securities) Act, 1993 , the Special Court had no

 jurisdiction to try the offences thereunder. 20) Accused No.5 having been acquitted from the charges of criminal

 breach of trust, could not have been held to be guilty of being a

 party to the conspiracy as alleged by the prosecution on the basis

 of the materials brought on record. 20 Mr. Mohan Prasaran, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing

on behalf of the Central Bureau of Investigation, on the other hand, urged:- OVER VIEW

NATIONAL HOUSING BANK

 NHB is a Bank constituted under the National Housing Bank Act,

1987 (in short NHB Act ). The Act was enacted to establish a bank to be

known as the National Housing Bank (NHB) to operate as a principal

agency to promote housing finance institutions both at local and regional

levels and to provide financial and other support to such institutions and for

matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. It is a financial institution.

It is also a Bank within the meaning of the provisions of the Banking

(Regulation) Act, 1949 . The nature of business of the NHB is contained in Chapter IV of the

Act . `Housing finance institution' has been defined in Section 2(d) , (as it then

stood) to mean - NHB was established with a view to give effect to the object and

purpose of the said Act. It is a subsidiary of Reserve Bank of India.

Provisions of Section 14 of NHB Act, as they are relevant for our purpose

may be noticed:- The Hierarchy of NHB is as under: In the meanwhile, however, Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 came

into force. Section 42 of the 1934 Act provided for "cash reserves" to be

kept with the Bank, relevant provisions whereof read as under:- section (2), as the Bank may from time to time, having
regard to the needs of securing the monetary stability in
the country, notify in the Gazette of India

 Explanation.-For the purposes of this section,- (a) "average daily balance" shall mean the average
 of the balances held at the close of business of
 each day of a fortnight; ... (1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1), the Bank may, by notification in the Gazette
of India, direct that every scheduled bank shall, with
effect from such date as may be specified in the
notification, maintain with the Bank, in addition to the
balance prescribed by or under sub-section (1), an
additional average daily balance the amount of which
shall not be less than the rate specified in the notification,
such additional balance being calculated with reference
to the excess of the total of the demand and time
liabilities of the bank as shown in the return referred to in
sub-section (2) over the total of its demand and time
liabilities at the close of business on the date specified in
the notification as shown by such return so however, that
the additional balance shall, in no case, be more than
such excess: In view of the aforementioned provision the `cash reserve ratio' as

specified in the statutes, is mandatorily required to kept with Reserve Bank 30 of India. Such average daily balance is not to be less than 3% of the total

demand and time liabilities of such Bank in India. Liabilities of a Bank may be in the form of demand or time deposits or

borrowings or other miscellaneous items of liabilities. Liabilities of the

Banks may be towards banking system (as defined under Section 42 of RBI

Act, 1934) or towards others in the form of Demand and Time deposits or

borrowings or other miscellaneous items of liabilities. Reserve Bank of India

has been authorized in terms of Section 42 (1C) of the RBI Act, 1934 to

classify any particular liability as either a demand or a time liability. 'Demand Liabilities' include all liabilities which are payable on

demand. `Time Liabilities' are those which are payable otherwise than on

demand and they include fixed deposits, cash certificates etc.

 "Call money" transactions are thus indisputably banking transactions.

It is no doubt true that in the event any irregularity is committed, the

Reserve Bank of India would be entitled to take action against the erring

Bank. JURISDICTION OF THE SPECIAL COURTS. 31 During the period April, 1992 and June, 1992 certain large scale

irregularities and malpractices were detected in transactions of both

governmental and other securities, carried out by some brokers in collusion

with the employees of various Banks and Financial Institutions. To have a

more close look into the matter the RBI appointed a committee under the

chairmanship of the then Deputy Governor of RBI, Shri R. Jankiraman ("the

Jankiraman Committee"). The committee submitted its report between May,

1992 and April 1993. On the basis of the said report and to deal with the

situation as also to ensure the speedy recovery of the huge amount involved

the Parliament enacted the Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to

Transaction in Securities) Act, 1992 ("the Special Courts Act "), establishing

the Special Court, from whose judgment this appeal arises. The learned counsel for the appellants contend before us that the

special court so constituted did not have the jurisdiction to try this matter.

They argue that Section 7 read with Sub Section 2 of Section 3 , of the

Special Court Act, limiting the jurisdiction of the Special Court only to

`offences relating to transaction in securities' would not attract the

transactions which have been attributed to the appellants in the present case.

It is argued that the definition of the term `Securities', as provided for in Section 2 (c) of the Act does not bring within its ambit `call money 32 transactions' for which they are being tried. It must be noted that the order

passed by the learned Special judge is silent on the issue of jurisdiction even

though the issue is said to have been raised at the trial. The Special Courts under the Act were established `for the trial of

offences relating to transaction in securities and for matters connected

therewith or incidental thereto.' Section 3 of the Act deals with the appointment of, and the functions

of custodians under the Act. Section 3 (2) empowers the Custodians to

notify the name of any person who are involved `in any offence relating to

transaction in securities'. The relevant part thereof reads as under: Section 6 empowers the Special Court to take cognizance or try such cases

as are instituted before it. Section 7 , which is of relevance in determining the present issues

before us, defines the jurisdiction of the Special Courts in criminal matters.

It reads as under: 34 Similarly the court in L.S. Synthetics Ltd. v. Fairgrowth Financial

Services Ltd. and another , [(2004) 11 SCC 456] also noted that `[t]he

jurisdiction of the Special Court is of wide amplitude. Subject to a decision

in appeal therefrom, its decision is final.'

 Further Section 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that all

offences under the Indian Penal Code shall be investigated and tried as per

the provisions of the Code. The same, however, would be subject to special

provisions to the contrary. Section 5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

contains a saving clause in terms of which the jurisdiction of special

legislations is saved. The Jurisdiction of the Special Court was required to

be determined with reference to the said provision. The Act is a special Act.

The section conferring jurisdiction on the Special Courts under the Act

contains a `Non Obstante' clause. It, thus, prevails over any other Law. [See Solidaire India Ltd. v. Fairgrowth Financial Services Ltd. and others ,

[(2001) 3 SCC 71 ]. 37 The Jurisdiction of the Special Court may be invoked when an offence

committed relate to transactions in securities; the logical corollary whereof

would be that all parties connected in diverting the funds of the public

sectors and/or financial institutions would also come within the purview

thereof. For considering the provisions of the said Act, it has to be borne in

mind the object and purport thereof. We have noticed heretobefore that the

Reserve Bank of India constituted Janakiraman Committee for the purpose

of looking in to the Securities Scam of the early 90's. A report pursuant

thereto was submitted. It was on the basis of that report that the said Act

was enacted and the Special Court was constituted. These background facts,

in our opinion, would be relevant for determining the issue. For the purpose of determining the question as to whether the Special

Court had the jurisdiction to try the offences in question or not, in our

opinion, the principle of purposive construction must be resorted to. The

rule which is also known as the `mischief rule' enables consideration of four

matters in construing an Act: (i) What was the law before the making of the

Act, (ii) What was the mischief or defect for which the law did not provide (iii) What is the remedy that the Act has provided, and (iv) What is the

reason of the remedy. The rule then directs the courts to adopt that

construction which suppresses the mischief and advances the remedy. [See 38 Bengal Immunity Co. v. State of Bihar , AIR 1955 SC 661, Zile Singh v.

State of Haryana, AIR 2000 SC 5100]. Simply stated `the courts should

identify the mischief which existed before passing of the statute and then if

more than one construction is possible, favour that which will eliminate the

mischief so identified.' [Anderton v. Ryan, (1985) 2 All ER 355, per Lord

Roskill]. The phrase `offence relating to transaction in securities' as used in section 3 (2) is clearly subject to more than one meaning. It is anything but

clear. For the aforementioned purpose we may notice the meaning of the

word `in relation to'. In M/s. Doypack Systems (Pvt.) Ltd. v. Union of India & ors., [(1988)

2 SCC 299], it was observed :- If the purport and object of the Act was to bring home an offence of

the nature discussed heretobefore, in our opinion, the Special Court would

have jurisdiction to try that offence. The money belonging to National

Housing Bank had been diverted to Harshad Mehta's account who was a

broker dealing in securities so as to enable him to enter into transactions in

securities during the period 1st April, 1991 and on or before 6th June, 1992,

which was an offence triable exclusively by the Special Court. The Special

Court, therefore, rightly exercised the jurisdiction vested in it.

VALIDITY OF THE SANCTION ORDERS. All the appellants before us, except accused No. 5 Atul M Parekh,

were at the relevant point of time public servants. Whereas Accused 1, 2 & 3

were employees of UCO Bank, Accused 6 & 7 were employees of the

National Housing Bank. They, therefore, have also been charged for

commission of offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . 41 Section 19 of the Act however requires previous sanction for prosecution of

the Public Servants. The relevant part thereof reads as under: Indisputably the competent authority had passed the orders of sanction

against all the concerned accused persons. Whereas accused 1, 2 & 3 have

raised no objection as regards validity of orders of sanction issued against

them; accused 6 & 7 who were employees of the National Housing bank

have questioned the same. The order of sanction as against accused No. 6 was passed by the

Chairman-cum-Managing Director of NHB, Shri R.V. Gupta, who has been

examined as PW 3. The relevant portion of the order granting sanction reads

as under:- It is contended by accused no. 6, C Ravi Kumar that he had come to

NHB on deputation from the RBI, and therefore the conditions of his service

were governed by the RBI regulations and not those of NHB Act . According

to him, the Governor of RBI was the only competent sanctioning authority. Indisputably accused No.6 was initially appointed by the Reserve

Bank of India and was sent to NHB on deputation in the year 1988. He was,

however, permanently absorbed there in 1992 and the Order of sanction in

respect of him was passed on 26th February, 1993. It is a fundamental

principle of service jurisprudence that an employee, subject to statutory

interdict, cannot have two masters. If from the date of his absorption the

relationship of employer and employee came into being between him and

NHB, it is fallacious to suggest that the Reserve Bank of India continued to 43 be his employer. It is not in dispute that if accused No.6 is treated to be the

an officer of the Bank, the Chairman-cum-Managing Director, being its

highest authority would be competent to pass the order of sanction. Next it was urged before us on behalf of accused no. 7, S Suresh Babu

that since the terms and conditions of service of the employees of NHB till

as late as 1995 used to be governed by the Service Regulations framed by

Reserve Bank of India, Shri R.V. Gupta, the Chairman-cum-Managing

Director, NHB had no authority to issue the sanctioning order. It was argued

that NHB's own staff regulations governing conduct and discipline came

into effect only in the year 1995. The said contention in our opinion is wholly misconceived. Even if till

the framing of Regulations by NHB, it adopted the Service Regulations

governing the employees of the Reserve Bank of India, the same would not

mean that the appointing authority would also be an officer of the Reserve

Bank of India and not the appropriate authority of NHB. Chairman-cum-

Managing Director of NHB being a highest executive authority, would be,

subject to any delegation of powers conferred in terms of the Regulations or

through Resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors, the appointing 44 authority. As an appointing authority, therefore, he will have the requisite

jurisdiction to accord sanction for prosecution of the employees. Even though, in our opinion, the sanction orders are legal and valid,

even if any doubt exists, the same becomes clear in view of the provisions of Section 19 (3) . It is reproduced heretobelow: RELIANCE ON THE JANKIRAMAN COMMITEE

 Before we move on to deal with the substantive criminal charges

under the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act invoked

against the appellants herein, we must first deal with a grievance which has

been raised by the learned counsel for the appellants and, in our opinion,

rightly that in the impugned judgment the Special Court had acted illegally

and without jurisdiction in relying upon the report of the "Janakiraman

Committee" while imposing the sentence on respondent No.6; the relevant

portion whereof is as under:- We have noticed hereinbefore the premise on which the said

Committee was constituted. We have also noted its objects and reasons.

There is no dispute that the Committee was appointed and it submitted its

report. It is one thing to say that the court records to the constitution of the

Committee for the purpose of tracing the history for enactment of the Act.

But it is another thing to say that the contents of the said report would be

admitted in evidence in a criminal case without proof thereof. The

Committee was not a court. It did not render any decision. It was merely a

fact finding body. It was constituted for a limited purpose. Contents of the

report, therefore, without formal proof, could not have been taken in

evidence. A Division Bench of the Nagpur High Court in M.V. Rajwade v. Dr.

S.M. Hassan , [AIR 1954 Nag 71] following the judgment of the Privy

Council In Re. Maharaja Madhava Singh LR , [(1905) 31 IA 239], held that

a Commission is a fact finding body meant only to instruct the mind of the 47 Government without producing any document of a judicial nature and that

findings of a Commission of Inquiry were not as definitive as a judgment. Similarly in Branjnandan Sinha v. Jyoti Narain [1955] S.C.R. 955,

this Court held that the Commission appointed under the Public Servants

(Inquiries) Act, 1850 , was not a court within the meaning of the Contempt of

Courts Act, 1952 . [See also Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice S.R. Tendolkar ,

1959 SCR 279, Puhupram v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1968) MPLJ 629. Sham Kant v. State of Maharashtra [1992 Suppl. (2) SCC 521]]

 Accordingly, the Janakiraman committee report was not admissible in

evidence. The report in terms of the provisions of the Evidence Act, 1872 is

not a judgment. The report may facilitate investigation but cannot form

basis of conviction and sentencing of the accused. For the said purpose the

report was wholly inadmissible in evidence. CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY

 It would now be appropriate to deal with the offence of criminal

conspiracy of which all the appellants herein have been charged with and

convicted of. It is alleged by the prosecution that K Margabanthu (A 1), R

Venkatrrishnan (A-2) and SV Ramanathan (A 3), who all were at the 48 relevant time officials of UCO Bank, along with C Ravikumar (A 6) and S

Sureh Babu (A 7), both of whom were at the relevant time officials of the

National Housing Bank, at the behest of Late Harshad S Mehta and Atul M

Parekh (A 5) entered into a criminal conspiracy with the object of diverting

funds from the National Housing Bank to Late Harshad Mehta's Account in

UCO Bank. The funds were diverted to enable Harshad Mehta to invest the

same in the Securities Market. It is alleged that in furtherance of the said

conspiracy K Margabathu (A 1), R Venkatkrishnan (A 2), C Ravikumar and

S Suresh Babu (A 7) created certain fake documents to facilitate the transfer

of funds. It is further alleged that SV Ramanathan (A 3) along with Atul M

Parekh (A5) then persuaded the officials of UCO bank to allow the said

transaction to proceed without any hindrance. Criminal conspiracy in terms of Section 120B of the Code is an

independent offence. It is punishable separately. Prosecution, therefore,

must prove the same by applying the legal principles which are applicable

for the purpose of proving a criminal misconduct on the part of an accused. A criminal conspiracy must be put to action and so long a crime is

merely generated in the mind of the criminal, it does not become punishable.

Thoughts, even criminal in character, often involuntary, are not crimes but 49 when they take concrete shape of an agreement to do or cause to be done an

illegal act or an act which is not illegal but by illegal means then even if

nothing further is done, the agreement would give rise to a criminal

conspiracy. The ingredients of the offence of criminal conspiracy are: Condition precedent, therefore, for holding accused persons guilty of

a charge of criminal conspiracy must, therefore, be considered on the anvil

of a fact which must be established by the prosecution, viz., meeting point of

two or more persons for doing or causing to be done an illegal act or an act

by illegal means. The courts, however, while drawing an inference from the materials

brought on record to arrive at a finding as to whether the charges of the

criminal conspiracy have been proved or not, must always bear in mind that 50 a conspiracy is hatched in secrecy and it is, thus, difficult, if not impossible,

to obtain direct evidence to establish the same. The manner and circumstances in which the offences have been

committed and the level of involvement of the accused persons therein are

relevant factors. For the said purpose, it is necessary to prove that the

propounders had expressly agreed to or caused to be done the illegal act but

it may also be proved otherwise by adduction of circumstantial evidence

and/ or by necessary implication. [See Mohammad Usman Mohammad

Hussain Maniyar & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (1981) 2 SCC 443]

 The following passage from Russell on Crimes (12th Edn. Vol 1)

refrred to by Jagannatha Shetty, J in Kehar Singh and Ors. v. State (Delhi

Administration ), [1988 (3) SCC 609 at 731] brings out the legal position

succinctly: It was further noted in that case that to establish an offence of criminal

conspiracy `[i]t is not required that a single agreement should be entered into

by all the conspirators at one time. Each conspirator plays his separate part

in one integrated and united effort to achieve the common purpose. Each one

is aware that he has a part to play in a general conspiracy though he may not

know all its secrets or the means by which the common purpose is to be

accomplished.'

 Dr. Hari Singh Gour in his Commentary on Penal Law of India,

(Vol.2, 11th Edn. p. 1138) elaborates: In some cases, intent of unlawful use being made of the goods or

services in question may be inferred from the knowledge itself. This Court

in State of Maharashtra v. Som Nath Thapa [(1996) 4 SCC 659] opined that

it is not necessary for the prosecution to establish that a particular unlawful 52 use was intended, so long as the goods or services in question could not be

put to any lawful use, stating: [See also K.R. Purushothaman v. State of Kerala (2005) 12 SCC 631]

 We may also notice a decision of this Court being State (NCT) of

Delhi v. Navjot Sandhu @ Afsan Guru [(2005) 11 SCC 600], commonly

known as the Parliament Attack case, wherein upon taking note of various

earlier decisions of this Court, it was opined that as conspiracy is mostly

proved by circumstantial evidence, usually both the existence of conspiracy

and its objects have to be inferred from the circumstances and the conduct of

the accused, stating : 53 {See also Esher Singh v. State of A.P. [(2004) 11 SCC 585]}: A conspiracy may further be a general one and a separate one. A

smaller conspiracy may be a part of a larger conspiracy. It may develop in

successive stages. [ Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab and Others , 2008

(14) SCALE 639] New techniques may be invented and new means may be

devised for advancement of common plan. For the said purpose, conduct of

the parties would also be relevant. Applying the principles of law to the facts of the present case, we may

take note of certain broad features. Indisputably, maintaining of cash

reserve ratio is a statutory requirement. All the Scheduled Banks are bound

to carry on the statutory instructions issued by the Reserve Bank of India in

this behalf. It is for the maintenance of this cash reserve ratio that UCO

Bank used to participate in call money transactions in the money market,

decision in respect whereof used to be taken at its Head Office at Kolkata. 55 For the said purpose, however, the Head Office used to be in touch with the

D.N. Road Main Branch in Bombay. It is neither in doubt nor in dispute that Mr. K. Venkatkrishnan

(Accused No. 2) at the Head Office in Kolkata was authorized for the said

purpose. P.W. 12 - Sunil Kakkar in his statement before the learned Special

Judge, stated as under: Such a power had been conferred upon various officers to deal with

call money transactions. Indisputably, accused No.2 was one of them.

Although, those various other officers might have been taking decisions in

this behalf, but there is no reason to disbelieve P.W. 12 that ordinarily

Accused No. 2 used to take a decision. 56 For the purpose of exercise of power furthermore it may not be

necessary that he would be given instructions only by Accused No. 2 and no

other. If he had been given instructions in this behalf from time to time by

the Assistant General Manager or Assistant Manager, the same would not

necessarily mean that Accused No. 2 was not exercising his power. P.W. 13 in his evidence categorically stated that Mr. Mallikarjunan

(P.W. 17) would take instructions from all the fourteen centres on the basis

whereof the General manager Mr Venkatkrishnan [A2] used to take a

decision. P.W. 17 in his deposition categorically stated: Indisputably again, however, a decision taken by the General Manager

would be subject to any direction which may be issued by Margabanthu

(Accused No. 1), Managing Director of the Bank. Keeping that aspect of the

matter in mind, we may also take notice of the call money transaction which

took place on 6.4.1992 around which the prosecution case revolves. Indisputably, call money was required on the 6th of April, 1993

although there may be some dispute with regard to the quantum thereof.

P.W. 17 in his deposition produced a `Chit' which was marked as Exhibit 56

to show that call money was to be procured from Can Mutual, State Bank of

Saurashtra, and State Bank of Hyderabad amounting to Rs. 21 crores, Rs.30

crores and Rs. 50 crores besides of National Housing Bank for a sum of

Rs.40 crores. It is profitable to notice the relevant portion of his testimony, which

reads as under: With respect to the said chit in which Mr. Mallikarjun had noted down

the details regarding the call money transaction after receiving information

from A2 [Mr Venkatkrishnan], he further stated: It is true that in his cross-examination, this witness stated that the

same was in his handwriting. Existence of the said Chit is thus not in 59 dispute. It matters little whether it is in the handwriting of P.W.17 or

Accused No.2. The fact that the decision had been taken by the Accused

No.2 to obtain call money to the tune of Rs. 40 crores is, thus, not in dispute.

P.W.17 also notes that he had noted the details in the chit after receiving

information from Accused No. 2 in this behalf. The said Chit containing the

details of the call money transactions was thereafter handed over to P.W.12 - Sunil Kakkar. It has been brought on record that this witness used to

maintain the call money register, and was, therefore, required to note the

same in the said register. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, however,

would submit that the entries in respect of the said transactions had been

made post facto. For the aforementioned purpose our attention has been

drawn to the deposition of P.W. 12 - Sunil Kakkar who stated,

 "the entries of the transactions would be made post
 facto. It was the responsibility of superior officer
 to verify the entries in the register. By superior
 officers, I mean General Manager, Assistant
 General Manager." It was principally, therefore, the responsibility of those two officers to

make verification. The entry in relation to the said transaction inter alia 60 finds place in Exhibit 45 for daily funds records to the CMD dated 6.4.1992.

This witness has proved the entries in the said registers. Yet again, a comment has been made with reference to his statement

that a number of pages of the register were written at one time and i.e., post

facto and Accused No. 2 signed the same after the entries had been made

post facto. The signature of the Accused No. 2 in those registers, therefore,

stands proved. The significance of this aspect of the matter would be dealt with a

little later. Before, however, we do so, we may notice the evidence of P.W.

12 - Sunil Kakkar in this behalf which is to the following effect: He, upon making entries with regard to the said transaction in the

register, in his deposition, stated: 61 The question as to whether the aforementioned amount of Rs.40

crores, which was to be taken on loan from National Housing Bank was

really needed or not is, however, a matter of some controversy. We may, at

this juncture, take note thereof. The prosecution in view of the aforementioned documentary and oral

evidence must be held to have proved the following facts: But that is not the end of the story. Subsequently, however, a meeting has been alleged to have taken

place in the chamber of Accused No. 1. According to P.W. 17, it was at this

meeting that Accused No. 1 had informed him and others present at the

meeting that the call money which had been borrowed from the National 63 Housing Bank had in fact been arranged by Harshad Mehta for the purpose

of carrying out his security transactions. He further informed them that the

money was required by Harshad Mehta at UCO Banks, Hamam Street

Branch in Bombay. As per the deposition of the said witness,

Venkatakrishnan (Accused No. 2) and C.K. Mukerjee (P.W. 13) were also

present in the said meeting. He stated: In his cross-examination to which our attention has been drawn by the

learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, he is said to have

accepted that he did not remember to have heard from Accused No. 2 that it

was not a call money and that the said amount was raised from the Bank by

Harshad Mehta. He further accepted : We have noticed hereinbefore that he, therefore, has given some

explanation as to why we could not disclose as to what had taken place in

the said meeting in his statement recorded by the Central Bureau of

Investigation. The fact that such a meeting had taken place was also the

subject matter of deposition by P.W. 13, stating: P.W. 13, allegedly on this basis, had called up Vijayan (P.W. 14) who

was the Manager, Accounts Department, D.N. Road Branch of the Bank to

inform him of the development, stating: 65 Such a telephone call to P.W.14 is further corroborated by P.W. 17,

stating: Our attention, however, has been drawn to the evidence of P.W. 14 by

Mr. Narasimha, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused No. 2

that the instructions for cancellation was received at 1:00 p.m. or so.

Although, according to P.W. 17, the meeting had taken place at about 2:00

p.m.

 It must, however, be borne in mind that in a case of this nature where

the witnesses were being examined more than ten years later i.e. in the 2003,

some amount of discrepancy with regard to time would not be of much 66 significance. We would deal with this aspect of the matter at some details at

an appropriate stage. Keeping in view the statement made by P.W. 14 which

was not shaken in the cross examination, there is no reason for us to

disbelieve that part of the material brought on record that call money from

NHB was, in fact, sought to be cancelled. In any event, as would appear

from the discussions to be made hereinafter, the prosecution cannot be said

to have failed to prove its case. We may, however, notice that at one stage,

according to this witness, such a telephone call had been made at about 2:00

or 2:30 p.m.

 Our attention has also been drawn that P.W. 13 before the C.B.I.

stated: Telex message has not been produced. Nothing much turns on the

said purported admission. It appears from the records that at a later stage the

General Manager (I&M) was asked to make an investigation. A report was

filed by P.W. 17. Only because in the said report again the factum of the 67 meeting did not find place, the same by itself should not be taken to be a

ground to ignore the depositions of all these witnesses. Apart from the supposed contradictions and inconsistencies, it is also

pointed by the learned counsel for the appellants that no such meeting had

taken place in the chamber of Accused No.1 on 6.4.1982. Our attention has

been drawn to the evidence of D.W 1- Ajit Sadhukhan, who at the relevant

time was the driver of the Accused No. 1 to contend that Accused No.1

came to his chamber only at about 3.30 p.m. although the transaction was

over at 3.00 p.m., stating: The prosecution case must be judged on a broad based fact. The

Indian Airlines Flight reached Kolkata Airport at about 12.30 p.m. on that 68 date. Evidences brought on record show that it takes about 45 minutes to

reach the Head Officer from the Airport. According to the prosecution

witness to which we have already adverted to, the meeting took place round

about 2'O clock. Even if Accused No. 1 had gone to his house for taking

lunch, the possibility of his coming to his office round about 2'O clock

cannot be ruled out. The Chairman cum Managing Director of a Bank

presumably would like to attend to his duties during banking hours and

particularly when vital decisions as regards the borrowing of call money was

required to be taken. That amount of concern from a highly responsible

officer should be expected. We must, however, notice that the evidence of P.W.14, who at the

relevant point of time was working at the Bombay Branch of UCO Bank,

categorically stated : Mr. Vijayan (PW 14) in his testimony further goes on to clarify about

the cancellation of the call money. Though the entry for the call money transaction occurs in the Note

Book which was being maintained, but the final Call money register which

was being maintained only had three call money transactions, since by the

time the entries in the register had to be noted down the fourth transaction

had already been cancelled : However, despite being informed that the call money from NHB had

been cancelled, when the DN Road Branch, UCO Bank received a cheque

for Rs. 40 crores from NHB, Mr. Vijayan (PW 14) [DN Road Branch] called

Mr. Ravikumar (A 6) [NHB] to seek clarification in this respect. Mr Vijayan

in his testimony notes: Mr Vijayan (PW 14) also clarified that he had also received

information from Mr. Mukherjee (PW 13) that the cheque was to be

transferred to the Hamam street branch of UCO Bank. However, since there was little time left to transfer the cheque to the

Hamam street Mr Vijayan directly deposited the cheque with RBI. He also 71 informed this information to Mr Karkhanis (PW 18) from the Hamam street

branch: Mr. Karkhanis (PW 18 ) [Senior Manager, Hamam Street Branch]

stated in his testimony as regards the said phone call which was received by

him from Mr Vijayan (PW 14): However, Mr Vijayan, (PW 14) [DN Road Branch] in his testimony

disclosed that he had only received information from NHB that the cheque

was to be transferred to the Hamam Street Branch in the following terms : 72 There is a discrepancy between the two testimonies of Mr Vijayan

[DN Road] and Mr Karkhanis [Hamam Street], as Mr Vijayan in his

testimony stated that the amount of Rs. 40 Crore was meant for Hamam

Street Branch and that he himself had not been informed that the amount

was meant for Mr. Harshad Mehta. Mr Pradeep Kharkhanis stated that Mr.

Vijayan specifically informed him that the said amount was meant to be

credited to the account of Mr Harshad Mehta. If Mr Vijayan himself did not

know that the 40 crore were meant to be deposited in the account of Mr.

Harshad Mehta at Hamam Street Branch how could he have informed Mr

Kharkhanis that it was for Mr Harshad Mehta.? The matter, however, must be considered from another angle. A

bankers' cheque for a sum of Rs. 40 crores was received by the Hamam

Street Branch of the UCO Bank. The records of the UCO Bank reflect that

the same amount was to be repaid on 7.4.1992. The said sum was to carry

interest at the rate of 26% per annum. 73 Had the transaction related to call money, it should have been

deposited in the D.N. Road Branch and not in the Hamam Street Branch.

The Hamam Street Branch does not deal with call money. On 6.4.1992

itself the amount was credited to the account of Harshad Mehta. Although a

lot of arguments had been advanced to contend that National Housing Bank

is entitled to enter into the security transactions but neither the deceased

Harshad Mehta nor the accused No. 5 made any attempt to show that any

transaction had been entered into by and between the deceased Harshad

Mehta and National Housing Bank. The accused in their statement under Section 313 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure accepted that the transaction in question was a routine

transaction. Such a transaction indisputably was utilized for the personal

gain of Harshad Mehta. If such transaction was a routine transaction, it goes

to show the long standing agreement between the said bank and Harshad

Mehta. Why on one pretext or the other UCO Bank would allow itself to be

used as a conduit thereto is the question. P.W 5 - Hiten D. Mehta who used to work with Harshad Mehta

admitted that he knew Ravikumar (Accused No. 6) since 1990 and the 74 remittance facilities were available. A sort of arrangement by and between

the said Bank and Harshad Mehta, thus, stood established. This is one of the links in the chain to show how the arrangement

developed so as to bring the matter within the purview of conspiracy

amongst the accused. In between 11:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. things took place in quick

succession. The transaction in question was shown to be a call money

transaction. While assuming it to be so for the time being, if it was a call

money transaction it could not have been used for any other purpose. The

amount was required to be retained in the Bank and should have ordinarily

been deposited at the D.N. Road Branch. This was not done. Why the

amount had been deposited in the Hamam Street branch remains a mystery.

Indisputably, the money which had been lent to UCO Bank had been

credited to Harshad Mehta's Hamam Street Bank account on the very same

day. Any call money operation could not have been carried out without the

knowledge and involvement of Accused Nos. 1 and 2. The involvement of

the accused No. 1 and 2 in tandem for the purpose of entering into such

agreement, thus, stands established. 75 It would be appropriate also to deal with the role played by SV

Ramanathan (A 3) in carrying out the said call money transactions at this

stage. As per Mr CK Mukherjee (PW 13) [Kolkata], Mr Margabanthu (A1),

in the meeting which took place in his chambers, reference whereto has been

made heretobefore, had informed him that Mr SV Ramanathan (A3) had

been authorized him to deal with security transactions of Mr Harshad Mehta

at the Hamam Street Branch, Bombay. It has also been emphasized by the prosecution that Mr. SV

Ramanathan was present at the Hamam Street Branch on the day the said

transaction took place. The testimony of Pradeep Kharkhanis (PW 18) is

relevant which reads as under : (Emphasis added)

 Mr Kharkhanis, in his testimony, further clarified the role of Mr SV

Ramanathan in insisting the starting up of security transactions through the 76 account of Mr Harshad Mehta, regarding which Mr Ramanathan had even

addressed the following letter: It is evident therefore that SV Ramanathan (A3) also played an

important role in ensuring that the call money from NHB which was meant

from UCO bank got transferred to Harshad Mehta's Account. It is pertinent to note that the money which was supposed to be

borrowed by UCO Bank as a call money was ultimately repaid by Harshad

Mehta through his account in ANZ Grindlays Bank directly. Mr. Jeroo Dalal (PW 8) who at the time was an official at ANZ

Grindlays states in his testimony thus: Satish D Hosangadi (PW 9) [Chief General Manager, NHB] also, in

his deposition, notes with regard to the repayment of the said call money

from ANZ Grindlay Bank stated, thus: During his re-examination, Mr Satish D. Hasangadi furthermore to

the following questions : answered in negative. The testimony of Mr Jeroo Dalal also brings out the involvement of

Mr Atul Parekh (A5) in the entire chain of conspiracy, stating : 78 Mr Pradeep Anant Karkhanis (PW 18) [Hamam Street branch]

notes in his testimony, stated : Whatever doubt had been left regarding the involvement of Shri

Atul Parekh (A5) has been cleared by the above stated testimony. He knew

that he was to receive 40 crores from NHB and that is why he had on the

said day come to the Hamam Street Branch of the Bank. It must however be noted that the entire transaction could not have

been carried out, had the officials of the NHB been not involved. 79 We must here deal with the involvement of C Ravi Kumar (A6) and

Suresh Babu (A7). NA Shivraman (PW 6) [NHB] in his testimony in this

regard stated thus: It is amply clear from above testimony that the C. Ravi Kumar (A6)

was the person responsible for the extension of the call money transaction

from 1 day to 9 days and the reduction of the interest from 26% to 25%. The

involvement of C Ravi Kumar (A6) is also corroborated by the testimony of

Mr Vijayan (PW 14) where he made reference to the fact that it was the

former who had informed him that the cheque from NHB worth Rs. 40 crore

was to be transferred to the DN Road Branch of UCO Bank. 80 What survives is the involvement of the Suresh Babu (A7) who was

working under C Ravi Kumar (A6) at NHB. In this regard, reliance has

been placed by the prosecution and even by the Special Court in its

judgment on the testimony of Mr. Sunil Pandurang Gondale (PW 7) who

deposed that Suresh Babu (A 7) had sent him to UCO Bank, Hamam Street

Branch on the 16.4.1992 to collect the cheque for the return of the call

money advanced: In our opinion, reliance on the said testimony is not enough. Just

because Sunil Pandurang Gondale (PW 7) had been sent by Shri Suresh

Babu (A7) is not enough for his involvement in the criminal conspiracy

which was hatched on behalf of the other accused. Something more

substantial would be needed to bring him within its fold. In fact in his cross

examination he admits: 81 The burden of proof is always heavy on the prosecution. The

prosecution must stand on its own legs basing its findings on the evidence

that has been let in by it. The prosecution has however failed in this task at

least with respect to A7, Shri Suresh Babu who was an officer working with

NHB. Now that it has been established that the accused had the knowledge

of the call money transaction which took place between the National

Housing Bank and Harshad Mehta on the 6th April 2008, next we would

have to consider the question as to whether the said transaction was illegal

or not. To establish a charge of conspiracy, indulgence in either an illegal

act or a legal act by illegal means is necessary. The definition of `illegal' is provided for in section 43 of the Indian

Penal Code. The word `illegal' in the section has been given a very wide meaning.

It consists of three ingredients: (1) everything which is an offence; (2)

everything which is prohibited by law; and (3) everything which furnishes

ground for civil action. It is contended on behalf of the respondent that the routing of call

money from the National Housing Bank to the Account of the deceased Shri

Harshad Mehta who was a stock broker was contrary to the provision of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 . To adequately deal with this leg of the submission we must notice the

provisions of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (The 1987 Act). The

NHB was created `to operate as a principal agency to promote housing

finance institutions both at local and regional levels and to provide financial

and other support to such institutions.' It was thus created to provide finance

to housing finance institutions. Section 14 of the 1987 Act which is of some

relevance deals with the `Business' of NHB, the relevant portions whereof

read as under: In terms of Section 14 the 1987 Act, NHB could advance loans to

`housing finance institutions' and `scheduled banks' or `slum authority'

constituted under a Central or State Legislation. Furthermore, Sub- section 4 of Section 49 of the Act lays down that if any other provision of the Act is

contravened or if any default is made in complying with any other

requirement of this Act, or of any order, regulation or direction made or

given or condition imposed thereunder, any person guilty of such

contravention or default shall be punishable with fine. It reads as under: The NHB cannot, therefore, advance loans to anybody except housing

finance institutions, scheduled banks and statutory slum clearance body, and

in case it advances any loan to any individual the same would amount to an

offence under the provisions of the 1987 Act. It has been contended by the learned counsel for the appellants that it

was for the Reserve Bank of India to take some action and the very fact that

it did not take any action against UCO Bank and NHB are pointers to show

that no offence had been committed. The said contention is untenable. It

was the Reserve Bank of India, which having regard to the magnitude of the

scam constituted Janakiraman Committee to look into the real nature of the

transactions and to find out if any fraud or irregularity had been committed.

Only pursuant to or in furtherance of the report a first information report was

lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation. It was only with a view to

achieve a speedy trial and pass consequential orders in regard to the

properties acquired by illegal means, the Special Court was constituted in

terms of the provisions of the said Act. Reserve Bank of India in the

circumstances could not have done anything more. Therefore, advancement of loan to Harshad Mehta by NHB under the

disguise of a call money transaction was illegal. The accused had the 85 knowledge of the said transaction. Therefore they have been rightly

convicted by the courts for commission of the offence of criminal

conspiracy. In conclusion we hold that there is sufficient evidence to hold all

accused A1 to A3, all official of UCO Bank & A5 who was working under

Harshad Mehta and A6, official of NHB guilty of criminal conspiracy. But

there is not sufficient evidence to show the involvement of A7, NHB in the

said transactions. CRIMINAL BREACH OF TRUST

 The next charge we have to deal with is one arising under Section 409 IPC. For the offence of Criminal Breach of Trust by a public servant the

punishment is provided under Section 409 IPC. We must also in this respect

have regard to the provision of S 405 which defines Criminal Breach of

Trust : Punishment for criminal breach of trust is provided in Section 406.

Punishment for an aggravated form of criminal breach of trust is provided in

Sections 407 to Section 409. The terms of the section are very wide. They apply to one who is in

any manner entrusted with property or dominion over property. The section

does not require that the trust should be in furtherance of any lawful object.

It merely provides, inter alia, that if such a person dishonestly

misappropriates or converts to his own use the property entrusted to him; he

commits criminal breach of trust. This section requires 1) Entrusting any person with property or with dominion over property. 2) That person entrusted (a) dishonestly misappropriates or converts to

 his own use that property; or (b) dishonestly uses or disposes of that

 property or willfully suffers any other person so to do in violation - (i) of any direction of law prescribing the mode in which such

 trust is to be discharged, or 87 (ii) of any legal contract made touching the discharge of such

 trust. In Onkar Nath Mishra and Ors. vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and Anr. ,

[(2008) 2 SCC 561] this court noted that in the commission of the offence of

criminal breach of trust, two distinct parts are involved. The first consists of

the creation of an obligation in relation to the property over which dominion

or control is acquired by the accused. The second is a misappropriation or

dealing with the property dishonestly and contrary to the terms of the

obligation created. In Jaikrishnadas Manohardas Desai and Anr. v. State of Bombay ,

[AIR 1960 SC 889], this Court observed : However, Sections 407 to 409 make special provisions for various

cases in which property is entrusted to the enumerated categories of persons

who commit the offence. Criminal breach of trust by a Public servant is dealt with under s. 409. This section classes together public servants, bankers, merchants,

factors, brokers, attorneys and agents. The duties of such persons are of a

highly confidential character, involving great powers of control, over the

property entrusted to them and a breach of trust by such persons may often 89 induce serious public and private calamity. High morality is expected of

these persons. They are to discharge their duties honestly. The following are the essential ingredients of the offence under this

section : In Raghunath Anant Govilkar Vs. State of Maharashtra and Ors ,

[2008 (2) SCALE 303] the court noted that Section 406 which provides the

punishment for criminal breach of trust simplicitor and 409 of IPC are

cognate offences in which the common component is criminal breach of

trust. When an offence punishable under under Section 406 is committed by

a public servant (or holding any one other of the positions listed in the

Section) the offence would escalate to Section 409 of the Penal Code. In Superintendent and Remembrancer of Legal Affairs, W.B. v. S.K.

Roy , [(1974) 4 SCC 230], this Court held: In Chelloor Mankkal Narayan Ittiravi Namhudiri v. State of

Travancore, Cochin , [AIR 1953 SC 478], this Court held: In Ram Narayan Popli (supra), this Court stated the law, thus :- NON-INSTITUTION OF DEPARTMENTAL PROEEDINGS

 In this regard, it must be emphasized that the submission of the

learned counsel that the Banks have not initiated any proceedings and

suffered any loss and thus the judgment of conviction and sentence of

criminal breach of trust is wholly unsustainable cannot be accepted for more

than one reason. It is not the law that complaint petition under all circumstances must

be made by the Banks and Financial Institutions whose money had been the

subject matter of offence. It is also not the law that suffering of loss is a sine

qua non for recording a judgment of conviction. It is now trite that criminal

law can be set in motion by anybody. The prosecution was initiated on the 92 basis of the information received by the Central Bureau of Investigation. It

would entitled to do so not only in regard to its statutory powers contained in

the Delhi Special Police Act but it was also entitled to take cognizance in

terms of the report submitted by `Janakiraman Committee'. The money

involved in the transfer is public money belonging to Public Sector Banks. The first allegation of criminal breach of trust is against accused No.6

and 7 as they had for allowed the diversion of a huge sum meant to be used

for specific purpose, namely - `call money' to be lent to another

Nationalized Bank. We have already hereinbefore dealt with the question as

to the legality of the transactions having regard to the provisions of the NHB

Act . If the transaction was illegal, as result whereof, a private person, who

was not expected to reap the fruit of `call money' was allowed to retain the

same for a period to make an unlawful gain therefrom, offence of criminal

breach of trust must be held to have been committed. It is for the same reason, the submission that as no body ultimately

suffered any loss, an offence under Section 409 of the Indian Penal Code

was not made out, cannot be accepted. A Bank or Financial Institution may

not suffer ultimate loss but if the money has been allowed to be used by

another person illegally for illegal purposes, the ingredients of Section 405 93 of the Indian Penal Code would get attracted. A case involving temporary

embezzlement also attracts the ingredients of Section 405 of the Indian Penal

Code. Furthermore, in terms of the above referred judgments of this Court,

when a person allows others to misappropriate the property entrusted to him,

that also amounts to criminal breach of trust. In the present case the amount of Rs. 40 crore was entrusted to

accused No. 6, C Ravi Kumar to be dealt with in accordance with the

provisions of the NHB Act . As has already been noticed herein before, the

1987 Act does not permit grant of loan to an individual. Accused No 6 in

violation of the law handed over the amount to the UCO Bank with full

knowledge that the amount would be credited to the account of accused No.4

Harshad Mehta. The call money transaction with UCO Bank was only a

cover up. Thus the property which was trusted to accused No. 6 was

misappropriated by him. It must in this regard be emphasized that an act of breach of trust

simpliciter involves a civil wrong of which the person wronged may seek his

redress for damages in a civil court but a breach of trust with mens rea gives

rise to a criminal prosecution as well. [SW Palanikar v. State of Bihar, 94 (2002) 1 SCC 241]. The element of `dishonest intention' is therefore an

essential element to constitute the offence of Criminal Breach of Trust. So far as the aspect of dishonest intention is concerned, the term

`Dishonestly' is defined by Section 24 of the IPC: Thus, an act done with the intention to cause `wrongful gain' can be

said to be dishonest. The term `wrongful gain' is defined in Section 23 of the IPC as

follows: The most essential ingredient of proof of criminal breach of trust,

therefore, is misappropriation with a dishonest intention. Breach of trust

simplicitor is not an offence as is it not associated with intention which is

dishonest. 95 The term dishonestly defined in Section 24 IPC means doing anything

with the intention of causing wrongful gain to one person or wrongful loss to

another. So the offence is completed when misappropriation of the property

has been made dishonestly. Accordingly, even a temporary misappropriation

falls within the ambit of the said offence. [See the Judgment of the Orissa

High Court in Kartikeshwar Nayak v. State , 1996 Cr.L.J. 2253]. In the present case accused No. 6 parted with money of NHB which

was entrusted to him so that Harshad Mehta could get it although not

entitled therefor in Law. The conduct of accused 6 was therefore dishonest.

He is guilty of the offence of criminal breach of trust. With regard to

accused No 7, Suresh Babu we have already mentioned that there is not

enough evidence to show his involvement in the said transactions. So far as the involvement of accused 1 to 3 is concerned, we are of the

opinion that they also played an important role in diverting the supposed call

money from NHB which was meant for UCO Bank to the account of

Harshad Mehta. As soon as the cheque for Rs 40 crore was received by UCO

Bank the amount stood entrusted to the officials of UCO Bank. However

accused 1 to 3 in violation of law and in the absence of any contract

permitted the amount to be transferred to the account of accused no. 4 96 Harshad Mehta who was not entitled to it. Therefore, the offence of criminal

breach of trust stands proved against them also. We must also make reference to the following observations of the

Supreme Court in Ram Narayan Popli (supra) which was a case arising from

the connected securities market scam, to bring home the point as to the

impact of the transactions: PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION ACT

 Apart from the charges under the IPC ,accused 1 to 3 [UCO Bank

officials] and accused 6 & 7 [NHB officials] have also been charged of

committing the offence under s 13 (1) (d) (iii) read with s 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act . It must be placed on record that in this regard

that the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 replaced the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1947 . The new Act was enacted `to consolidate and amend

the law relating to the prevention of corruption and for matters connected

therewith.' Relevant portions of section 13 which provide for criminal

misconduct by a public servant read as under. "13. Criminal misconduct by a public servant.- (1)
 A public servant is said to commit the offence of
 criminal misconduct,- ...(d) if he,- ...(iii) while holding office as a public servant,
 obtains for any person any valuable thing or 98 pecuniary advantage without any public
 advantage; or

 (2) Any public servant who commits criminal
 misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment
 for a term which shall be not less than one year but
 which shall may extend to seven years and shall
 also be liable to fine." Section 13 in general lays down that if a public servant, by corrupt or

illegal means or otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtained

for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary

advantage he would be guilty `criminal misconduct'. Clause (2) thereof

speaks of the punishment for such misconduct. [See CK Damodaran Nair v.

Government of India , AIR 1997 SC 551.]

 The ingredients of Sub-clause (iii) of S 13 (1) (d) contemplate that a

public servant who while holding office obtains for any person any valuable

thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest would be guilty of

criminal misconduct. Sub section (2) of section 13 provides for the

punishment for such criminal misconduct. Minimum sentence is prescribed under Section 13(2) of the 1988 Act

and a public servant who abuses his position as such for obtaining for

himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage

cannot be punished for a term of imprisonment, which is less than for the 99 duration of one year. For convicting the person under Section 13(1)(d)(iii) ,

there must be evidence on record that accused 'obtained' for any other person

any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public advantage. In Dalpat Singh v. State of Rajasthan , [AIR 1969 SC 17] while

interpreting an analogous provision in the unamended Prevention of

Corruption Act , this opined noted: The Madras High Court in B. Ramachandran and S.S. Abdul Hameed

vs.State rep. by The Inspector of Police, Special Police Establishment,

Central Bureau of Investigation, Anti-Corruption Branch, Crl. A. No. 553 of

2000 decided on 23.03.2007 noted thus: In the light of the provisions already enumerated by us we per the law

laid down we therefore hold that the accused A1 to A3 [officials of UCO

Bank] & A6 [officials of NHB] are guilty of criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act . For the reasons already mentioned by us we

do not find sufficient evidence to bring in the involvement of A7, Suresh

Babu within the fold of the said transaction. All the accused were at the relevant time public servants. Each one of

them played a specific role in diversion of funds from NHB to the account of

Harsad Mehta, all ostensibly under a call money transaction. They thereby in

our opinion facilitated Harshad Mehta to obtain pecuniary advantage within

the meaning of the section. The acts were anything but intended to be in

public interest. On the contrary the public loss and suffering occasioned

thereby was immeasurable. Though it is true, as has been argued before us

that all the funds diverted have subsequently been returned to NHB and no

actual loss has been occasioned there by either to the UCO Bank or the

NHB. But it must not be forgotten that white collar crimes of such a nature

affect the whole society even though they may not have any immediate 101 victims. We, accordingly, hold accused A1 to A3 and A6 guilty of criminal

misconduct under s. 13 (1) (d) (iii) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.

SENTENCING

 A sentence of punishment in our opinion poses a complex problem

which requires a balancing act between the competing views based on the

reformative, the deterrent as well as the retributive theories of punishment.

Accordingly a just and proper sentence should neither be too harsh nor too

lenient. In judging the adequacy of a sentence, the nature of the offence, the

circumstances of its commission, the age and character of the offender,

injury to individual or the society, effect of punishment on offender, are

some amongst many other factors which should be ordinarily taken in to

consideration by the courts. We may also place on record that as the CBI has

not preferred any appeal against the quantum of sentence, this Court cannot

impose a higher sentence. We must first accordingly take into consideration the sentence

imposed by the Special Court : 120B and s. 409 of the IPC as also s.13 (1) (d) (iii) read with s. 13

 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act to undergo RI for a period of

 six months and to pay fine of Rs. 1,00,000 in default to undergo SI for

 two months 2. A-2 , R Venkatkrishnan is found guilty of offence under s. 120B and

 s. 409 of the IPC as also s. 13 (1) (d) (iii) read with s. 13(2) of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act and is sentenced to undergo RI for a

 period of six months and to pay fine of Rs. 1,00,000 and in default SI

 for two months. 3. A3, SV Ramanathan is sentenced for the offence punishable under s.

 120B and s. 409 of the IPC as also s.13 (1) (d) (iii) read with s. 13

 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act to undergo RI for a period of

 one months and to pay fine of Rs. 10,000 and in default SI for two

 months. 105 4. A5, Atul M Parekh is sentenced for the offence punishable under section 120 B of the IPC to undergo RI for a period fo 15 days and to

 pay a fine of Rs. 10,000 and in default to undergo a SI for 15 days. 5. A6, C Ravikumar is sentenced for offences under punishable s. 120B

 and s. 409 of the IPC as also s 13 (1) (d) (iii) read with s. 13(2) of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act and is sentence to undergo

 imprisonment for 1 year and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,00,000 and in

 default to undergo a imprisonment for SI for two months. 6. A7, S Suresh Babu is hereby acquitted of all charge as the prosecution

 has failed to prove the case against him beyond all reasonable doubts.

 Each accused should be given a set off for the period for which he has

already undergone imprisonment in this case. So far as the payment of fine

is concerned, a period of 2 months time is given to all accused persons, on

whom fine has been imposed, to pay the said fine.