This petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. seeking

regular bail of the petitioner in Crime No.481/2021 of

Byadarahalli Police Station, Bengaluru Rural District for the

offences punishable under Sections 323 , 354B , 417 , 376 , 504 , 506 of IPC and Section 67A of IT ACT. 2. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the

learned High Court Government Pleader appearing for the

respondent-State. 3. The factual matrix of the case is that the victim girl

and also this petitioner were working together and he acquainted

with the family members of the petitioner and persuaded her

that he would marry her and used to visit the house of the victim

frequently and as against her wish, this petitioner subjected her

for sexual act and the same was recorded in the mobile and used

the nude photograph and video for blackmailing her and

subjected her for sexual act and also started harassing her

stating that he would send the same in whatsapp and when his 3 torture was not bearable, on 21.11.2021, the complaint was

given stating that he has sent her nude photographs and videos

to her brother and also relatives around 20 to 30 persons.

Based on the complaint, the case was registered and after

completion of the investigation, charge sheet has been filed for

the aforesaid offences against this petitioner. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner

would submit that this petitioner earlier had approached this

Court for bail and the same was rejected on the ground that the

matter is under investigation and an opportunity was given to

the petitioner to approach this Court after filing the charge sheet

and an allegation against this petitioner is that nude

photographs of the victim girl were uploaded to her relatives

around 20 to 30 persons and no such materials are collected by

the Investigating Officer and the petitioner is in custody from the

date of his arrest since investigation is completed and charge

sheet has been filed, the further custodial trial is not required

hence, he may be enlarged on bail. 5. Per contra, the learned High Court Government

Pleader appearing for the State would submit that though at the 4 first instance regarding subjecting the victim for sexual act not

stated in the complaint and during the course of investigation,

the victim discloses the said fact and also discloses that this

petitioner taken the nude photographs of the victim and also

video graphed the sexual act committed by him with the victim

and sent the same to her brother and relatives and during the

course of the investigation, the mobile of the petitioner was

seized and found that the same was circulated to several

persons hence, this petitioner not only committed the heinous

offence of subjecting the victim for sexual act and the same was

video graphed and sent the same to her relatives hence, there is

a prima facie case against this petitioner and prayed to dismiss

the petition. 6. Having heard the respective counsel appearing for

the parties and also on perusal of the material available on

record and also looking into the contents of the complaint as well

as further statement given by the victim under Section 164 of

Cr.P.C and also the material collected by the Investigating

Officer it discloses that this petitioner not only subjected her for

sexual act and made use of the photograph and video to 5 blackmail her with an intention to get consent for his heinous act

of committing sexual intercourse with her and also sent the

same to her relatives and brothers through mobile. Having taken

note of the conduct of the petitioner, it is not a fit case to

exercise the discretion in favour of the petitioner and mere filing

of charge sheet is not a ground to enlarge him bail when heinous

office is committed and circulated the same to the relatives of

the victim. 7. In view of the discussions made above, I pass the

following: