SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A fraud baba scammed my parents today !!
DATE: 2024-03-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1b7yn6r/a_fraud_baba_scammed_my_parents_today/

--- POST TEXT ---

A random baba showed up at my house today and he started telling some things like my parents have 2 sons and my father have 5 other siblings like my fathers family history etc. My mom is very religious and kinda innocent so she started believing him. Then he started giving some random prediction like my one of my fathers brother will face some danger in march around holi. My mom called my dad and she told the baba about my dad's injury in his shoulders. He told them to bring some cloves, turmeric, water and did some trick which turned water red. 
 
 He basically started to scare them and said he will remove this curse and cure my fathers shoulder pain by doing some pooja. So while this was happening i was inside sleeping , my mom woke me up and asked me to meet him. As soon i heard about what was happening i knew he is a fucking fraud. 
 
 I came outside to see what was happening , he was talking to my father and couple of my neighbouring peeps were there, my mom asked him about like when will i get job ( im in college rn ) and he told i will become officer and my brother will move abroad ( random generic bullshit ). 

So this nutjob was asking Rs.3500 to do this pooja for prosperous future and remove this curse. And my mom was almost got ready to go along with this and when my father came inside to get money, i somehow convinced him that he is a scammer, they scare people and scam them, dont fall for this shit and all. But my mom did not agreed said i dont know shit and i am a kid. And gave him Rs500.

And this mf said he dont need money bcs he asked for 3500 and we were giving him 500. He went on telling about some family who did not took his advice and their kid dies and that his prediction are never wrong. But eventually took that 500 and did some random pooja and left and he also went to couple of more houses around our colony doing this same shit

People are really blind in faith, their logic just sweeps away when religion comes. And these fucking scammer makes easy money by fooling these people. 

Tldr: A self-proclaimed religious figure visited the user's house, made generic predictions, claimed to lift curses through a ritual, and asked for money. Despite skepticism from the user, the mother paid a reduced amount. The user highlights the exploitation of people's faith and warns against falling for such scams.