Due to COVID-19 situation, the Court is convened through
video conference. The present petition under Section 438 Cr.P.C. is filed seeking
anticipatory bail in FIR No. 360 dated 20.8.2020, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 201 and 120-B IPC, Section 12(1)(b) of the Passports Act,
1967 and Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 registered at
Police Station Tohana, District Fatehabad. During verification of three passports, it was found that same
mobile number was mentioned in all the three applications. An enquiry was
held to unearth the scam. The allegations against the petitioner are that he
in collusion with Deepak Puri and Monu Sachdeva got prepared two fake
passports by giving two different addresses. Co-accused Deepak Puri was
arrested and he made a disclosure statement. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is
a victim of the trap laid down by the travel agent. The petitioner had not
filled the forms and he never received the two passports. He further
submits that similarly situated victims were granted anticipatory bail by this
Court. Learned counsel for the State opposes the prayer for grant of

 1 of 2 ::: Downloaded on - 09-09-2021 00:36:23 ::: CRM-M-35009 of 2021 [2]

pre-arrest bail. She distinguishes the present case from co-accused who
were granted anticipatory bail. The petitioner has a criminal antecedents as
he is involved in four more cases including one under Section 302 IPC. The
petitioner had an original passport in which address of Mohali was given.
It was only with an intent to flee the country while being on bail that an
attempt was made by first applying the passport by giving address of H. No.
257, Ward No. 19, Tohana and after its rejection, a second attempt was
made by producing an Aadhaar Card of H. No. 265, Ward No. 14, Bhuna
Road, Tohana. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that out of four
cases, in two cases the petitioner was acquitted and in third case fine of
Rs.100/- was imposed. The scope of enquiry initiated on detection of three passports
received for verification, widened as new facts and evidence was revealed
during the enquiry. The contention that the petitioner was a victim and
never received two passports would be considered at the stage of trial. The
fact remains that the petitioner had a passport in which address of Mohali
was given. In spite of that, two passports were applied in his name giving
two different addresses. As these applications were rejected hence there was
no question of getting these passports. The involvement of the petitioner in
other FIRs is an indicator of his antecedents. A deeper probe is required.
The petitioner is not at parity with the co-accused who have been granted
anticipatory bail. In those cases two attempts were not made for getting a
passport and co-accused were not having criminal antecedents. The petition is dismissed.