Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on January 11 said that the central bank shared a list of official digital lending apps with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and the Ministry has published the same on its website. We were, however, unable to locate the list on MeitY’s website.

“From all registered or licensed lenders with the RBI, the banks and the NBFCs, we have collected the list of apps and have given it to the government, the Ministry of Information and Technology, which has uploaded it on their website. […] Now, it’s a long list. The responsibility is more for the law enforcement agencies to look at and identify illegal apps. […]  We regulate only the banks and NBFCs. So, we have cast the responsibility on our regulated entities to see that the fair code of conduct and fair business practices are adopted by their third-party service providers. But the problem as you said is with regard to the illegal lending apps.” — RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das

The Governor was addressing a question posed to him at the Mint BFSI Summit on how the government and the RBI are dealing with illegal lending apps.

While the RBI keeps referring to this whitelist of digital lending apps to defend its efforts in curbing predatory loan apps, there is not much clarity on who has this list and what names it contains.

MediaNama had filed multiple right-to-information (RTI) requests with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last year asking for the whitelist but the central bank denied the same stating that sharing the list could adversely affect the financial and economic systems of the country. But if the list is published on MeitY’s website as the RBI Governor claims now, then we can’t see why the central bank was reluctant to share the list with us. Additionally, in November last year, The Indian Express, following a months-long investigation into the world of predatory loan apps, reported that there is no whitelist of legitimate loan apps or a negative list of fake loan apps.

While the contradictory information around the whitelist continues to grow, so does the problem of predatory loan apps, which are flourishing on app stores, targeting vulnerable borrowers, charging them exorbitant interest rates, and resorting to extortion and blackmail tactics to collect repayments.

The RBI should publish any whitelist it has on its website. As we’ve noted before, we believe that a publicly available whitelist will help consumers cross-check the list for allowed digital lending apps, rather than fall prey to the numerous predatory lending apps that exist on the app stores.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event