On this tracker, each week we will curate a selection of stories about online security.

According to a survey conducted by cyber security firm Norton By Symantec 8 out of 10 people surveyed reported that they had encountered some form of online harassment, cyber bullying or cyber stalking. In terms of online harassment with physical threats involved, Mumbai reported the most with 51% of the respondents having encountered it. In Delhi 47% of the respondents had received physical threats online, while the number in Hyderabad was 46%. While in case of cyber bullying the instances were highest in Delhi, where 51% of the respondents had encountered it. Read more about this in The Indian Express .

The New Delhi-based Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) has received intelligence regarding a possible cyber attack on multiple countries, including India, reports The Hindu . Officers of the Maharashtra Cyber Department told the publication that the attack is expected to be a Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) attack. However, it’s not clear if CERT’s intelligence has helped in pinning down when this attack might take place. Readers might remember that last year, in July, Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in Mumbai had faced DDoS attack from unknown hackers, reducing the Internet surfing speed in the city, and in some cases even leading to crashing of servers.

A report by cyber security company Recorded Future says that North Korea maybe be conducting cyber warfare activities around the world through India, reports ET . Instead of using its own territorial resources, North Korea has set up both physical and virtual presence in multiple countries such as Malaysia, New Zealand, Nepal, Kenya, Mozambique, and Indonesia, besides India, and is launching cyber attacks. One of the indicators of this is that between April and July 2017 there have been virtually no recorded instances of cyber attacks originating from mainland North Korea.

The Indian Army is planning to deploy female officers in its cyber warfare division, reports Business Today . While no particular date has been mentioned regarding when this would take place, the report mentions that a large number of troops are currently being trained in languages such as Mandarin and Arabic. The Shekatkar Committee had also recommended that female officers be utilised to tackle cyber warfare. While it’s great that the army is looking for new avenues to deploy female officers, I’m sure they’ll be just as good on the ground in combat roles. Note that the Ministry of Defence is expected to soon set up a separate division for tackling cyber warfare. It is currently waiting for requisite approvals from the Ministry of Law & Justice and other government departments. This special division will be based in Delhi and work with the National Cyber Security Advisor.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event