Following the release of the draft framework for recognising self-regulatory organisations (SROs) in the FinTech sector in January, the RBI has shared the official framework after receiving inputs from various stakeholders. The framework defines the various characteristics, eligibility criteria, functions and responsibilities, etc. of an SRO.

In a press release, the RBI elaborated on the benefits of self-regulation of the FinTech industry stating:

“By pivoting towards a culture of self-governance, FinTechs could proactively set and adhere to industry standards and best practices. This approach could empower the sector to demonstrate its commitment to responsible conduct and innovation even in the absence of formal regulation. Through collaboration, the sector could collectively identify and address challenges, foster an environment where innovation flourishes, and guide shared commitment to ethical business practices”

The RBI called for SROs that can function “objectively, with credibility and responsibility under the oversight of Reserve Bank of India.”

An SRO is required to guide the conduct of its members, ensure that they adhere to industry standards, comply with relevant laws and regulations, and maintain high ethical standards.This involves establishing and enforcing guidelines for consumer protection, data security, data privacy, etc. Thus, an SRO must also have have adequate powers to investigate and take disciplinary action against its members for non-adherence

Further, an SRO facilitates communication between industry players and RBI, advocating for necessary changes, and promoting a culture of compliance. It can comprise of multiple FinTech entities, with vastly different functions . “For example, some entities might aggregate both loan and insurance products, while RegTech providers develop solutions for a range of financial institutions including lending and insurance”, the RBI explained. Thus, an SRO must set guidelines and adopt a framework that is conducive to broad spectrum of industry players .

An SRO should also encourage innovation equitably. It must bridge the skill gap and keeping smaller FinTech entities abreast with the dynamic nature of financial technology. This involves prescribing minimum eligibility criteria for its members, providing specialised knowledge and expertise, offering guidance, and contributing to capacity-building through training programs. It must also maintain a repository of information that can s erve as a valuable resource for industry research, trend analysis, and policy making

An SRO is required to partake in the following actions as mandated by the RBI

The members of an SRO must primarily be FinTech companies that are currently not regulated by any financial sector regulator and are domiciled / registered in India. However, membership may also be open to Regulated Entities (other than banks).The membership is voluntary and while membership fees may vary or be differentiated, based on size, intent, capability, etc. the RBI states that membership fee structure as set by the SRO must be reasonable, and non-discriminatory. The RBI also stated, that the number of SROs to be recognised would be considered based on the number and nature of applications received.

The application to register as an SRO must be submitted under the authorisation of the SRO’s Board. It must contain:

An SRO must not be involved in any offence. The RBI has the right to reject the application or revoke the recognition of an SRO if it deems its functioning detrimental to the public interest or if a stakeholder and/or the SRO is found to be conducting activities that are not in conformity with the objectives of the SRO. RBI would provide rejected applicant with an opportunity of being heard.

All members of the Board of Directors(BoD) and Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) must have professional competence and a reputation for fairness and integrity. Any legal proceedings against a BoD or KMP should be declared as part of the application and demonstrated that such proceedings do not impede the functioning of the SRO or harm its reputation. Further, any members of the BoD or any KMP should not have been convicted of any offence including “moral turpitude/economic offence in the past.” The RBI has the final say on whether any BoD or KMP are fit for the role.

The SRO functions as an industry association for Fintech companies, and as an association, it must facilitate communication between the industry and the RBI. The responsibilities of an SRO are to:

An SRO must implement robust conflict of interest management, ensure professional competence of its leadership and promptly address grievances.

It should also be professionally managed, with its Articles of Association (AoA) that:

The SRO must have a framework for monitoring the ‘fit and proper’ status of its directors and must immediately report any change in the directorship or issues in compliance with the RBI.

At least one-third of members of the Board, including the chairperson, should be independent, and without any active association with a FinTech entity. Further, the majority of non-independent directors must be representative of FinTechs that are currently not directly regulated.

The Board must frame a policy on the rotation of directors for important positions on the Board. Further, the Board must ensure that an SRO has adequately skilled human resources, and robust technical capability to monitor the sector.

RBI has stated that it can remove or nominate any member of the board and/or management of the SRO if necessary. In case of removal, adequate opportunity shall be provided, before any such adverse action is initiated.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event