1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide the present suit under S. 134 & 135 of Trademarks Act, 1999 and Sec. 55 of the
 Copyright Act, 1957 for permanent injunction restraining
 infringement, passing off, delivery up and rendition of
 accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the defendants. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially, the
 present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before the
 concerned Court of Ld. Additional District Judge, Patiala
 House Courts, New Delhi. During the course of trial,
 the case was received by this Court by way of transfer, on
 05-08-2022 in view of Order No.17016-17031/Judl./
 NDD/ PHC/2022 dated 05-7-2022 of the then Ld. Principal
 District & Sessions Judge, New Delhi District, PHC and
 consequent upon the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case titled as 'Vishal Pipes Limited v. Bhavya
 Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD No.1/2022 & CM APPLs No.
 12-14/2022 dated 03-6-2022. 3. It may also be noted that initially, the suit was filed against
 the defendants, who were arrayed as 'Ashok Kumar' on
 the basis of 'John Doe' principle as applicable in India and
 subsequently, after execution of local commission in
 pursuant to relevant Court's order(s), the plaintiff got
 substituted the defendant nos. 1 to 4 in place of previous
 defendant/Ashok Kumar (John Doe) and placed on record
 Amended Memo of Parties. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 4. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, in brief, is
 as under:- medicated preparations for the care and beauty of
 the skin, toilet soaps, dentifrices, sun-tan
 preparations, personal deodorants and accessories TM No. 11/2020 Page 3 of 35 -4- used and other allied/related products [ hereinafter
 referred to as "the said goods and business"]. 4.2 It is averred that ever since its bonafide adoption in
 or about the first decade of 1900, the plaintiff has
 been using the mark L'OREAL,

 , ,

 , and various stylized
 labels/ word per se over long and continuous period
 of time as a trade mark, as also an essential part of
 its trade name [hereinafter referred to as "the said
 trademarks/ labels L'OREAL (with or without
 Paris)"] in relation to its said goods and business.
 Further, it is stated that in addition to its word per se
 user, the plaintiff over a period of time has also been
 using its said trade mark in various stylized and
 artistic formats and labels and which have been
 created and are being created over a period of time.
 It is claimed that the word/mark L'OREAL remains
 a key and material part thereof. The detailed history
 of the plaintiff are mentioned in Para no. 4 of the
 plaint. 4.3 It is also claimed that said trade mark(s) L'OREAL
 is/are registered in India under the provisions of Trade Marks Act, 1999 in favour of the plaintiff in
 India and same are stated to be valid and subsisting TM No. 11/2020 Page 4 of 35 -5- as on date and details thereof have been given in
 Para no.7 of the plaint. 4.4 It is also stated that the plaintiff's trademark/label
 L'OREAL PROFESSIONNEL is very famous and
 well-known not only amongst consumers but also
 amongst Salons, make-up stylists etc. The plaintiff
 has been running technical center under the
 trademark / logo L'OREAL PROFESSIONNEL,
 and is providing educational and hairdressing
 services thereunder. The professional products
 division of the plaintiff has set up a world-class
 technical center at New Delhi. L'OREAL
 PROFESSIONNEL division of the plaintiff has
 always been stressing on the importance of
 education and training and to further its vision, has
 already established five education centers across
 India for training over 75,000 hairdressers and to
 enrich Indian hairdressing Industry. 4.5 It is further stated that the plaintiff through
 predecessors, in the year 1917, also adopted the
 word/mark MAYBELLINE as a trademark. Since
 then, over the period of time, the plaintiff has been
 creating various MAYBELLINE and various other
 stylized trademarks formats and various
 MAYBELLINE bearing and formative labels and
 trade dresses of which the word/mark
 MAYBELLINE, word per se or stylized is an
 important, key and distinguishing part. In the year TM No. 11/2020 Page 5 of 35 -6- 2004, the plaintiff started using the mark

 . COLOSSAL VOLUME EXPRESS and in the year
 2009, the plaintiff in relation to its another product
 Baby Lip Balm, adopted and started using the
 trademark BABY LIPS with or without conjunction
 with MAYBELLINE in relation to its said goods
 and business and started using the same as a word
 mark and also in an artistic label / stylized form as
 depicted hereunder:- It is also stated that the plaintiff has been promoting
 its products in India, including under the said
 trademarks/labels through leading brand
 ambassadors and personalities, which include
 Ms. Ashwarya Rai, Ms. Sonam Kapoor and
 Ms. Deepika Padukone. 4.18 The plaintiff invests heavily in R & D and its
 products are known for their high standards of
 quality, safety, innovation and reliability and there is
 an ever-increasing demand thereof. The plaintiff
 every year devotes about 3% of its turn over to R &
 D. The plaintiff has invested more than 490 million
 Euros in R & D. The plaintiff, besides other
 countries, has research Laboratories in France,
 U.S.A. and JAPAN, which alone employ over
 2350 researchers from over 30 disciplines.
 The plaintiff collaborates with research units in
 about 20 countries worldwide in advanced scientific
 fields. The plaintiff's research is mainly focused on
 3 subjects Skin, hair and colour and with clear aim
 to improve the quality and effectiveness of its TM No. 11/2020 Page 12 of 35 -13- products through scientific innovation and to
 develop new products. The research findings are
 published in numerous international scientific
 journals. In the year 2005, the plaintiff filed
 for 529 patents. About 94% of the plaintiff's group
 production plans are certified 9001 version 2000. 4.19 Thus, it is stated that in view of the plaintiff's
 proprietary rights both under statutory and common
 law in its said trademarks, its goodwill & reputation,
 and its copyrights, the plaintiff has the exclusive
 right to the use thereof and nobody can be permitted
 to use the same or any other deceptively similar
 trademark/label in any manner whatsoever in
 relation to any specification of goods without the
 leave and license of the plaintiff. 4.20 It is alleged that the defendants are engaged in
 manufacturing, marketing, selling, trading, use of
 cosmetics and toiletries, hair care products and
 beauty products including make-up preparations and
 accessories used thereof and other allied/ related
 products [hereinafter referred to as the 'impugned
 goods and business']. It is further alleged that the
 defendants have adopted and started using the trade
 marks/ labels viz. L'OREAL (with or without the
 word 'PARIS'), L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL,
 MAYBELLINE, BABY LIPS, MABYLLIINE
 BABY LIPS, GARNIER and / or other formative
 trade marks/ labels/ variants [hereinafter referred to TM No. 11/2020 Page 13 of 35 -14- as impugned trade marks/ labels] in relation to their
 impugned goods and business. 4.21 It is averred that in the last week of January, 2019,
 the plaintiff came across impugned goods of the
 defendants under the impugned Trade Marks/Labels
 in New Delhi Area. Being aggrieved thereby, the
 plaintiff caused an inquiry in the market, which
 revealed that the defendants had just about in the
 month of January 2019, adopted and started using
 and soliciting the impugned Trade Marks/Labels in
 relation to their impugned goods in New Delhi Area.
 The defendants are not only making the retail sales
 but are also supplying the impugned goods bearing
 the impugned Trade Mark/Label to various other
 dealers/shopkeepers/retailers including in New
 Delhi area, who are making the clandestine and
 surreptitious sales thereof to the unscrupulous
 traders and manufacturers of the counterfeit
 products of the plaintiff under the said Trade
 Mark/Label in the markets of New Delhi Area viz.
 Connaught Place, Gole Market, Sarojini Nagar,
 Naraina and adjoining areas, etc.

 4.22 Thus, it is alleged that the defendants have
 dishonestly and malafidely adopted impugned
 trademarks/labels L'OREAL (with or without the
 word 'PARIS'), L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL,
 MAYBELLINE, BABY LIPS, MABYLLIINE
 BABY LIPS, GARNIER, which are visually, TM No. 11/2020 Page 14 of 35 -15- structurally identical and/or deceptively and
 confusingly similar to the registered trademarks/
 labels of the plaintiff's L'OREAL (with or without
 the word 'PARIS'), L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL,
 MAYBELLINE, BABY LIPS, MABYLLIINE
 BABY LIPS, GARNIER in relation to same goods
 and business, thereby causing confusion and
 deception amongst the unwary purchasing public
 and traders by making them believe that the origin
 of those goods is the plaintiff company. It has been
 averred that by doing so, the defendants are not only
 damaging the reputation and goodwill of the
 plaintiff company by passing off their substandard
 products as that of the plaintiff company but are also
 causing financial loss to the plaintiff company by
 reaping unfair advantage of the repute and
 distinctive character of the trademarks of the
 plaintiff company. 4.23 On these facts and circumstances, the plaintiff has
 filed the present suit against the defendants praying
 therein, inter alia, that decree of permanent
 injunction may be passed restraining the defendants
 and all others acting for and on their behalf from
 using, selling, soliciting, importing (in any manner
 or from any other port), exporting, displaying,
 advertising or by any other mode or in any manner
 using impugned trademarks/labels L'OREAL (with
 or without the word 'PARIS'), L'OREAL
 PROFESSIONAL, MAYBELLINE, BABY LIPS, TM No. 11/2020 Page 15 of 35 -16- MABYLLIINE BABY LIPS, GARNIER or any
 other word mark/trade marks/label which may be
 identical with and/or deceptively similar to the
 registered trademarks/labels of the plaintiff
 L'OREAL (with or without the word 'PARIS'),
 L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL, MAYBELLINE,
 BABY LIPS, MABYLLIINE BABY LIPS,
 GARNIER in relation to same goods and business,
 thereby infringing plaintiff's registered trademarks,
 copyright and passing off their products as that of
 the plaintiff. 5. The suit was accompanied with applications - one under
 Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC and another under Order
 XXVI Rule 9 CPC seeking ex parte ad interim injunction
 and ex parte order for appointment of local commissioner
 to visit and search the premises of the defendant. After
 hearing counsel of the plaintiff, the said applications were
 allowed, vide common order dated 05-02-2019 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of its Court, thereby granting ex parte ad
 interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendant and Local Commissioner was appointed to visit
 and search the premises of the defendant with
 certain conditions as mentioned therein. Subsequent
 thereto, an application u/s 151 CPC was moved on behalf
 of plaintiff seeking direction to Ld. Local Commissioner to
 execute the commission at the fresh addresses of the
 defendant and seeking extension of time for execution of
 local commission on the premise that the defendants had
 shifted their premises. The said application was allowed TM No. 11/2020 Page 16 of 35 -17- vide order dated 18-3-2019, passed by Ld. Predecessor of
 the Court. In pursuance thereof, Ld. Local Commissioner
 executed the commission in terms of relevant order(s)
 passed by this Court and filed her detailed report on
 record. 6. As already noted above, subsequent to execution of local
 commission, the plaintiff got substituted the name of John
 Doe entity with the name of the defendants and filed on
 record Amended Memo of Parties. 7. Despite being served with the summons of suit, none had
 appeared on behalf of defendant nos. 2 to 4 and
 consequently, they were proceeded against ex parte, vide
 order dated 23-1-2020, passed by Ld. Predecessor of the
 Court. 8. At this stage, it is worthwhile to note here that due to
 outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the matter got adjourned
 en bloc in view of the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court and Ld. Principal District & Sessions Judge, PHC,
 New Delhi. Subsequently, the matter was taken up for
 hearing through virtual mode/ hybrid mode, in pursuant to
 further directions of Hon'ble Delhi High Court and Ld.
 Principal District & Sessions Judge, PHC, New Delhi. 9. It may also be noted here that on statement of counsel of
 plaintiff, the suit was permitted to be withdrawn against
 defendant no.1, vide order dated 28-11-2024, passed by
 this Court. 10. In support of its case, the plaintiff has examined only one
 witness i.e. its AR namely Sh. Pankaj Pahuja as PW1. He
 led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit [Ex.PW1/A]
 and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint and has
 relied on the following documents:- Srl.no Document/Particulars Exhibit(s) 12. Trade Mark application Ex. PW1/12
 no.1778491. 13. Trade Mark application Ex. PW1/13
 no.1832958. 14. Trade Mark application Ex. PW1/14
 no.1836274. 15. Trade Mark application Ex. PW1/15
 no.1887201. 16. Trade Mark application Ex. PW1/16
 no.2251084. 17. Trade Mark application no. Ex. PW1/17
 1335359. 18. Copy of plaintiff's advertisements Ex. PW1/18
 for the L'OREAL products. (Colly) 19. Report of Ld. Local Commissioner. Ex. PW1/19 20. Affidavit under Section 65B of Ex. PW1/B
 Indian Evidence Act. 11. On statement of counsel of the plaintiff, the ex parte
 evidence of the plaintiff was closed on 15-01-2025. After
 closure of PE, ex parte final arguments were heard. 12. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, AR of plaintiff made statement to give up the
 reliefs as prayed in Prayer Clause nos. 46(b) and 46(d) of
 the plaint regarding restraining the defendants [defendant
 nos. 2 to 4] from disposing off or dealing with their assets TM No. 11/2020 Page 19 of 35 -20- and rendition of accounts of profits respectively.
 Accordingly, the plaintiff was permitted to give up the said
 reliefs, vide order dated 15-01-2025. 13. I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have
 also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF: 14. In support of his case, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has
 advanced the following arguments:- ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION: 15. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of the
 plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant material
 available on records. JURISDICTION: 16. Firstly, as regards the jurisdiction of this Court, it is
 submitted by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the defendants
 are making clandestine and surreptitious sales, offering for
 sale, and are also supplying, purveying, displaying, and
 soliciting, have intention to sell their impugned goods and
 business under the impugned trade mark/label in New
 Delhi Area viz. Connaught Place, Gole Market, Sarojini
 Nagar, Naraina and adjoining areas, etc. and thus, the
 defendants are committing the impugned acts of
 infringement and passing-off in the markets of New Delhi
 Area viz. Connaught Place, Gole Market, Sarojini Nagar,
 Naraina and adjoining areas etc. situated within the
 jurisdiction of this Court by selling, soliciting, trade, TM No. 11/2020 Page 22 of 35 -23- distribution, and marketing networks in relation to the
 impugned goods under the impugned trademark/label.
 Further, it is stated that the dynamic effects of the
 defendants' activities are being felt in the markets of New
 Delhi, which falls within the territorial jurisdiction of this
 Court and thus, it is contended that whole or part cause of
 action has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this
 Court within the meaning of S. 20 CPC. 17. Further, it is contended that the plaintiff is also carrying
 out its said business under the said trademark/label through
 its dealers/distributors within the territorial jurisdiction of
 this Court.The goods of the plaintiff are also sold,
 purchased, available and delivered through online
 marketplaces like Flipkart and Amazon etc., which are
 interactive in nature and freely accessible within the
 jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, it is contended that this
 Court further has also territorial jurisdiction to entertain
 and try the present suit within the meaning of S. 134 (2) of
 the Trademarks Act, 1999 and also under S. 62(2) of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. 18. The PW1 has proved copy of plaintiff's advertisements for
 the L'Oreal Products as Ex.PW-1/18 (Colly.), which
 shows, inter alia that the goods of the plaintiff bearing
 trade marks Baby Lips, Colossal kajal maybelline, L'oreal
 and Garnier are also sold, purchased, available and
 delivered through Amazon, which are interactive in
 nature and freely accessible within the jurisdiction of this
 Court. 19. The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted as the defendants have neither
 filed written statement, nor have chosen to cross-examine
 PW1. 20. Therefore, in view of the law as laid down by
 Hon'ble Delhi High Court in cases titled as
 " Banyan Holding (P) Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy &
 Anr. " reported as 2009 SCC OnLine Del 3780; 21. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality
 of the facts and circumstances of the case and in
 view of the above cited judgments and keeping in view
 the fact that evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged
 and uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered
 opinion that at least part of cause of action has
 arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court
 and therefore, this Court has territorial jurisdiction to
 try and entertain the suit. PERMANENT INJUNCTION: 22. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trade mark, to quote:- 23. Further, our own Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace & Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries
 Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC 63 (Del) laid down the principle
 as to how infringement of trade mark is to be seen,
 to quote:- 24. In view of above law, lets examine the facts of the case in
 hand. The averments made in the plaint are duly supported
 by the documents proved during the course of evidence.
 PW-1 has deposed on the identical lines of averments
 made in the plaint and has proved various documents, as
 already referred to above. 25. In the case titled as "Amrish Agarwal Vs. M/s Venus
 Home Appliances Pvt. Ltd" in CM (M) 1059/2018 dated
 27-08-2019, passed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court, it was,
 inter alia, directed that in trademark infringement matters,
 the following documents ought to be necessarily filed
 along with the plaint. The relevant Para no.7 of its
 judgment is reproduced hereunder: 26. In this case, the plaintiff has relied upon and has filed
 printout of online status reports from the website of trade
 mark registry along with copy of Registration Certificates,
 which are duly proved by PW-1 as Ex.PW1/4 to
 Ex.PW1/17. As per these documents, it is duly shown that
 trademarks/ labels are registered as word marks/ labels/
 device mark etc. in favour of the plaintiff since long under
 various classes. Further, during the course of final
 arguments, counsel of plaintiff has stated at Bar that the
 registration of trade marks/ word marks/ device
 marks/labels stand renewed and are valid till date. 27. As already noted above, the defendants nos. 2 to 4, despite
 being served with summons of the suit, chose not to appear
 before this Court and consequently, they were proceeded
 against as ex parte. Moreover, none appeared on their
 behalf to cross-examine PW1.Therefore, the entire
 testimony of PW-1 has gone un-rebutted, uncontroverted
 and unchallenged and thus, the case of the plaintiff stood
 proved against the defendant nos. 2 to 4 on the basis
 of preponderance of probability. It is duly established
 on record that said trademarks/ labels are duly registered in TM No. 11/2020 Page 28 of 35 -29- favour of the plaintiff and also that same are valid and
 subsisting as on date in favour of the plaintiff. 28. Further, the Local Commissioner had also found infringed
 goods bearing impugned trademarks/labels from the
 premises of the said defendants at the time of execution of
 commission. Local Commissioners' Report, as available
 on record, would reveal that the defendant nos. 2 to 4 were
 either present or subsequently joined the commission
 executed at their respective premises. 29. As per Inventory List as avilable on record, Impugned
 goods - (approx. 136) bearing impugned trade mark/ labels
 L'OREAL PARIS, and L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL
 PARIS were recovered from shop no.360 which belongs to
 defendant no.2. Further, as per report, the owner of shop
 no. 360 was not found present at the shop no.360,
 however, Sh. Jamshed, whose number was given on the
 visiting card, answered the call and reached at the shop. 30. Further, as per said report, impugned goods i.e. 2 pieces
 bearing the impugned trade mark/ label MAYBELLINE
 COLOSSAL KAJAL were recorded from the shop no.484,
 which belongs to defendant no.3. The shop was closed and
 after imaging around the owner, Mr. Imran Motiwala came
 to the shop. 31. Further, as per said report, infringed goods i.e. accord
 parfait (piece1) bearing impugned trade mark/ labels
 L'OREAL PARIS was recovered from Shop No.11, which TM No. 11/2020 Page 29 of 35 -30- belongs to defendant no.4. Mr. Alam was found present at
 the shop. 32. Thus, it is shown that the premises were searched in the
 presence of defendant nos. 2 to 4 and infringed goods were
 seized from the premises of the defendants.The seized
 infringed goods bearing impugned trademarks/labels were
 handed over to the defendants, in terms of relevant order,
 on superdari. 33. Since, the commission was executed in the presence of
 the defendant nos. 2 to 4, it cannot be believed that they
 were not having any knowledge of proceedings going on
 before this Court and the orders passed therein. Despite
 that, they chose not to appear before this Court and to
 contest the present suit and the report of Ld. Local
 Commissioner also remained uncontroverted and
 unchallenged. 34. In totality of the facts and circumstances of the case,
 the Court is of the view that the plaintiff has succeeded
 in proving that the defendant nos. 2 to 4 were
 manufacturing, stocking, distributing and selling goods
 bearing falsified trademark /trade name/ labels L'OREAL
 PARIS, L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL PARIS and
 MAYBELLINE COLOSSAL KAJAL which are
 deceptively and confusingly similar to the plaintiff'
 registered trade marks/ labels L'OREAL PARIS,
 L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL PARIS and MAYBELLINE
 COLOSSAL KAJAL and therefore, trademarks and
 copyright of plaintiff company are required to be TM No. 11/2020 Page 30 of 35 -31- protected. Accordingly, the plaintiff is held entitled to
 decree of permanent injunction, whereby the defendants
 are liable be restrained from using trade marks / labels
 L'OREAL PARIS, L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL PARIS
 and MAYBELLINE COLOSSAL KAJAL or any other
 word mark/ mark/ trade mark/ label which may be
 identical with and/ or deceptively similar to the plaintiff'
 said trade marks/ labels L'OREAL PARIS, L'OREAL
 PROFESSIONAL PARIS and MAYBELLINE
 COLOSSAL KAJAL in relation to similar goods, thereby
 infringing plaintiff' registered trademark, copyright and
 from passing off their products as that of the plaintiff. DELIVERY UP: 35. As already discussed above, the infringed goods bearing
 falsified trademark/logo of plaintiff were seized by Local
 Commissioner and were returned to the defendants on
 superdari. Therefore, the defendant nos. 2 to 4 are directed
 to delivery up all above seized infringed goods, besides all
 other impugned finished and unfinished materials bearing
 the impugned and violative trade mark/label to the plaintiff
 for the purpose of destruction and erasure. DAMAGES 36. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff submitted that punitive damages
 may be awarded in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendants. 37. Although, the plaintiff has argued for award of punitive
 damages, yet, on bare perusal of plaint, it is apparent that TM No. 11/2020 Page 31 of 35 -32- no such relief regarding award of damages is claimed
 therein. On similar facts, in case titled as Super Cassettes
 Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. HRTN Cable Network , 2017 SCC
 Online Delhi 10943, wherein the defendants were ex parte
 and did not participate in the proceeding, counsel for the
 plaintiff had sought punitive damages, which was declined
 in view of the judgment of Hon'ble Division Bench of
 Delhi High Court in case titled 'Hindustan Unilever
 Limited v. Reckitt Benckiser India Limited', ILR (2014) II
 Delhi 1288. 38. However, as per law laid down by Hon'ble Division Bench
 in case of Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra), there is a
 need to see as to whether the case of plaintiff falls for
 exemplary damages. 39. As already noted above, the Local Commissioner, while
 executing the commission, found and seized infringed
 goods from premises of the defendant nos. 2 to 4 in their
 presence and handed over the same to them on superdari. It
 is evident from the said report that the said defendants
 were stocking and selling/ passing off the infringed goods
 bearing impugned trade mark L'OREAL PARIS,
 L'OREAL PROFESSIONAL PARIS and MAYBELLINE
 COLOSSAL KAJAL as that of the plaintiff' products,
 thereby causing wrongful loss to plaintiff company and
 would have earned illegal profit. Further, if the seized
 infringed goods would have gone to the hands of the
 consumer/ general public, the reputation/goodwill of the
 plaintiff company would have gone down in the eyes of TM No. 11/2020 Page 32 of 35 -33- consumer/ general public as infringed goods were of
 average quality and were not upto the quality which is
 claimed by the plaintiff company. 40. In the case in hand, the defendant nos. 2 to 4 did not show
 up and participate in the proceedings in order to deprive
 the plaintiff to the benefit of rendition of accounts.
 Accordingly, keeping in view the overall facts and
 circumstances of the case including the quantum of
 infringed goods bearing impugned trademarks / labels as
 found by Ld. Local Commissioner while executing the
 commission and the relevant averments appearing in Para
 No.42 of the amended plaint to the effect that the plaintiff
 came across impugned products of the said defendants
 under the impugned Trade Mark/Label in New Delhi Area
 and being aggrieved thereby, the plaintiff caused an
 inquiry in the market, which revealed that the defendants
 had just about in the month of January, 2019 adopted and
 started using and soliciting the impugned Trade
 Mark/Label in relation to their impugned goods in New
 Delhi Area, whereas, the present suit has been filed in the
 first week of February, 2019, the Court is of the opinion
 that the plaintiff company is entitled to exemplary
 damages quantified as Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh
 only) to be jointly recovered from defendant nos. 2 to 4.. It
 is so ordered accordingly. RELIEF: 41. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, the Court is of the
 view that the plaintiff has been able to prove its case on the TM No. 11/2020 Page 33 of 35 -34- basis of preponderance of probability. Thus, the suit is
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant
 nos. 2 to 4 and the following reliefs are granted:- Announced in the open Court Digitally signed
 by VIDYA
 VIDYA
On this 27th January,2025. PRAKASH
 PRAKASH Date: