` 1. Petitioner is before this Court seeking for quashing of

the proceedings in Crime No.634/2020 registered by the

respondent - South CEN Police against the petitioner for

the offence under Section 66 of the Information Technology

Act, 2008 and Sections 406 , 420 and 120B of the Indian

Penal Code pending on the file of the 1st Addl. CMM Court

Bangalore. 2. The complaint came to be filed on 10.07.2020 by the

2nd respondent alleging that while the petitioner was in the

employment of the 2nd respondent, the petitioner and one Crl.P.No.4646 of 2020 3 Mr. Vikas Dadhich had together before they left the

services of the respondent stolen the CRM data basis

software business designs for business plans, data of the

Company etc., and thereafter joining another rival

Company has misused the data by circulating the date of

respondent Nos.2 to 3rd parties. On these basis and on

several other allegations the complainant has sought for

action to be taken against the petitioner. 3. Sri Ismail Muneeb Musba, learned counsel for the

petitioner would contend that though the petitioner

was employee of respondent No.2 having been

appointed on 01.01.2019, the appointment letter does

not in any manner make any reference to maintain any

confidentiality as regards to the data of the Company.

Further more, the 2nd respondent has issued a

relieving letter on 22.06.2020 wherein no allegations

are made against the petitioner as regards any theft or

otherwise of the property of the Company. It is only

after the petitioner joined the services of another rival Crl.P.No.4646 of 2020 4 Company that the aforesaid allegations have been made,

nearly after two months after the petitioner left services of

respondent No.2 - Company. He further submits that the

petitioner has been charged with the offences both under

the Information Technology Act and as also under the

Indian penal Code, the Information Technology Act being a

special enactment would over ride the IPC and as such he

submits that the proceedings in entirety have to be

quashed, if not, the offences under the IPC are to be

quashed. 4. Sri K. Abhinav Anand, learned counsel for

respondent No.2 would submit that the data of respondent

No.2 has been stolen by the petitioner and Mr. Dadich, the

matter requires investigation. This Court at this stage

cannot adjudicate whether there is a theft of any data and

when it is occurred. Therefore, he submits that the

petition ought to be dismissed. 5 5. Heard Sri Ismail Muneeb Musba, learned counsel for

the petitioner and Sri K. Abhinav Anand, learned counsel

for respondent No.2. 6. A perusal of the complaint indicate that the

allegations made are as regards the theft of the CRV data

base, software designs and business plan and data. Sri

Ismail Muneeb Musba, learned counsel for the petitioner

has contended that the appointment letter does not require

the petitioner to maintain any confidentiality and as such

thereby meaning that if any data is taken by the petitioner

there is no breach of the appointment letter which could be

said to have been committed. 7. I am unable to accept such a submission. Any

employee who has been hired by any employer is required

to maintain confidentiality, which is the very foundation of

the engagement of the employee by an employer. Thus

there need not be any specific clause relating thereof. It is

only because a person is employee of an employer would

an employer make known its confidential data to such an Crl.P.No.4646 of 2020 6 employee. By its very nature the information being

confidential merely because there was no clause in the

appointment letter would not be a ground to contend that

no violation as regards the same can be alleged by the

employer. 8. The second contention of Sri Ismail Muneeb Musba,

learned counsel for the petitioner is that while issuing a

relieving letter on 22.06.2020 there was no particular

allegations made against the petitioner and in fact her

services have been certified by the 2nd respondent. 9. This aspect also would not be a reason to exercise

power under Section 482 of Code of Criminal Procedure the

allegations in the complaint as that after the petitioner left

services of respondent No.2, respondent No.2 came to

know of the earlier theft made by the petitioner. When the

data was being used by the current employer of the

petitioner to target the business leads of respondent No.2,

as such being the case whether these facts are true or not

would have to be found during the course of trial. This Crl.P.No.4646 of 2020 7 Court cannot give any findings as regards whether there is

any theft of data or whether the data has been made use of

by competitor or whether there is any loss caused to

respondent No.2. In view thereof, reserving liberty of

defences of petitioner to be urged during the course of trial,

the petition is dismissed. 10. In view of dismissal of the above petition, the prayer

sought in I.A. No.2/2020 does not survive for

consideration, hence, I.A. No.2/2020 also stands

dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE

SBS*