MediaNama is gearing up for its event “AI in Fintech,” in Bangalore on April 24 . The event will explore key regulatory concerns, including algorithmic explainability, safeguards for accuracy and human agency, bias in credit algorithms, scalability of harm through personalisation, and governance mechanisms for AI accountability—particularly in third-party and cross-sector deployments.

Join us for an insightful discussion with the fintech sector’s most important stakeholders, alongside a variety of policy experts, researchers and entrepreneurs.

Register Now

Date: April 24, 2025 Venue: Spring Hall, Hotel Royal Orchid, Domlur, Bangalore Timing: 1:00 PM to 5:00 PM

We are glad to announce the confirmed list of speakers for the second panel of the day: How AI is Transforming Fintech – And What It Means for User s

This session will explore how AI is actively being deployed across the fintech ecosystem — in lending, insurance, fraud detection, robo-advisory, and trading. As financial services become more data-driven, the use of consumer, transactional, behavioral, and alternative data in decision-making is rapidly growing.

The discussion will focus on the capabilities of AI in automating credit scoring, pricing risk, and improving operational efficiency — while also critically examining the risks to fairness, accountability, inclusion, and rights (FAIR).

Kiran Gopinath, Chief Innovation Officer, Sahamati

As Chief Innovation Officer at Sahamati, Kiran Gopinath is architecting Sahamati Labs — pioneering initiatives in collaborative AI, AI interoperability in Open Finance, and accelerating global Open Finance adoption. He led the charge on the Global Open Finance Adoption Report 2024-2030, spanning 48 countries and setting the benchmark for the Open Finance industry. With deep roots in digital advertising and privacy-first data-sharing, Kiran’s career bridges business strategy, ecosystem development, and technology-driven financial inclusion.

Prashant Singh, Head of Product, Jar

Prashant is heading product management at Jar, a fintech startup revolutionizing the financial landscape in India. Prashant has deep expertise in product management, design, and leadership across the consumer internet, mobile apps, fintech, commerce, and AI domains.

Before Jar, he was the Co-founder of Shifu, an AI company in the smartphone-based predictive intelligence space. Shifu was acquired by Paytm, where Prashant worked as Vice President of Product Management for five years, managing everything from Recharge & Bill Payment to DIY Merchant Onboarding, eCommerce Sellers, and Messaging and Content.

He is very passionate about AI, fintech, and conversational interfaces, and is dedicated to designing products for users in Tier 2 and Tier 3 towns of India, also known as the “Next Billion Users.”

Kiran Nambiar is the CEO and Co-founder of MyFi, an AI-powered financial platform by TIFIN, designed to make investing accessible for Indian users. Previously, he was a Partner at TIFIN and co-founded 1st Main, a fintech startup acquired by TIFIN, as well as Rooted Company.

Kiran’s experience includes leadership roles at Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Merrill Lynch, where he managed key projects in New York and London. An Imperial College London graduate, he brings a strong foundation in finance and tech to India’s fintech landscape.

This discussion is organised with support from CRED, PhonePe, RazorPay and in partnership with HasGeek, Sahamati Labs, Aapti Institute and IT For Change.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event