1. The accused persons are facing trial for the offence U/s.
 498A/304B/306/34 IPC . 2. The case of prosecution is that on 29.06.2016, ASI Ghure
 Singh was posted at CPC R to attend the calls. At about 16:43
 hours that day, he received a call from mobile number
 9711315454, wherein caller informed that ASI that "Mangol
 Puri E-424, Gali No.8 caller ke bhai ki wife fan par latak rahi
 hai". ASI Ghure Singh filled the PCR Form Ex. PW15/A and
 passed the information to District Line. 3. HC Manoj, PW18 was working as Duty Officer at PS Mangol
 Puri that day. At 16:46 hours, he received the aforesaid
 information transmitted to him by the Wireless Operator. He
 recorded the information in the form of DD No.35 Ex.
 PW18/A. The information was thereafter conveyed to SHO PS
 Mangol Puri and SI Robin for further necessary action. 4. On receipt of information, SI Robin Tyagi PW24 alongwith Ct.
 Bharat PW27 reached H.No. E-424, Mangol Puri, Delhi, where
 one room was bolted from inside. The police party broke the
 door open and found that deceased Mamta @ Neelam was
 hanging from garter with Chunni (stole). The body was taken
 down and was thereafter shifted to SGM Hospital, where JR
 State Vs. Devender & Ors. BABRU Digitally signed
 by BABRU BHAN 2 of 28
 BHAN Date: 2024.01.29
 12:48:37 +0530 3 Dr. Dilip Kumar in presence of Dr. Vipin Dabas examined the
 body vide MLC No.12230 Ex. PW6/A. After examination, she
 was declared brought dead. Brother of the deceased namely
 Inderpal PW9 also reached the spot. The valuable articles found
 on the body of the deceased were removed and were handed
 over to Inderpal vide memo Ex. PW9/A. 5. Crime Team headed by SI Satyadev PW2 and including HC
 Shiv Om PW3 (Photographer) reached at the spot and
 inspected the same. After inspection, SI Satya Dev prepared
 report Ex. PW2/A. 6. On 30.06.2016, SI Robin Singh PW24 again reached SGM
 Hospital. Executive Magistrate Amit Kumar PW4 also reached
 there. Executive Magistrate recorded the statements Exs.
 PW4/B and PW4/C of Inderpal and Mahender. In the
 statement, Inderpal PW9 stated that his sister / deceased Mamta
 was married to accused Devender on 04.02.2016. After about
 one month of marriage, accused Devender, Ashok, Mohri Devi,
 Kamlesh Devi and Parvati started harassing her in connection
 with demand of dowry. They used to give beatings to her and
 would not let her talk to the witness (Inderpal). When they
 proposed to provide a mobile phone to the deceased, accused
 persons denied for the same saying that mobiles are kept by
 prosecutes. Mamta repeated the allegations when she came to
 her parental home. She told that accused Devender used to say
 that he was not willing to continue with his work and wanted to
 start a business. He was persistently asking Mamta to bring
 BABRU Digitally signed
 by BABRU BHAN
 State Vs. Devender & Ors. BHAN 12:48:43 +0530
 Date: 2024.01.29 3 of 28 4 Rs.1 - 1.5 lacs from her parental home for his business. She
 also stated that accused Mohri Devi was not permitting her to
 wear her jewellery. He further narrated some incidents when
 the harassment and torture to Mamta by her in-laws came to
 their knowledge. On 29.06.2016, this witness received an
 information that Mamta had hanged herself. On the statement
 Ex. PW4/A of Inderpal, IO prepared rukka Ex. PW29/A and
 handed over the same to ASI Veena who registered the present
 FIR Ex. PW1/A and endorsed the rukka as Ex. PW1/B
 (certificate u/s.65B Indian Evidence Act issued by PW ASI
 Veena is Ex. PW1/C). 7. In the meanwhile, Dr. Manish Wadhawan conducted the
 postmortem upon the dead body vide report Ex. PW5/A. After
 postmortem, the dead body was handed over to Inderpal PW9
 vide handing over memo Ex. PW8/A. After postmortem, the
 concerned doctor handed over the pulanda containing ligature
 material to the IO in sealed condition. 8. During further investigation, the Chunni which was used by the
 deceased as ligature was seized by the IO vide seizure memo
 Ex. PW24/A. 9. Accused Devender and Ashok were arrested and personally
 searched vide memo Exs. PW24/B to PW24/E. SI Robin
 recorded their disclosure statements Exs. PW24/F and
 PW24/G. PW24 also prepared site plan Ex. PW24/H.
 Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU BABRU
 Date: 10.On 01.09.2016, Ct. Naveen PW-23 took the measurement of
 the place of incident at instructions of the IO and thereafter
 prepared scaled site plan Ex. PW23/A. 11.During further course of investigation, IO Inspector Arvind
 Kumar PW29 gave notice u/s.91 Cr.P.C. Ex. PW29/B to
 Inderpal to obtain the documents of marriage and list of dowry
 articles, which was replied by Inderpal vide reply Ex. PW8/DA.
 Inderpal also handed over the documents i.e. marriage cards,
 photographs, list of articles and two bills, which were seized by
 the IO vide seizure memo Ex. PW9/B. 12.On 18.09.2016, accused persons namely Parvati, Kamlesh and
 Darshana were arrested vide memo Ex. PW20/A, PW29/C and
 PW29/D. After their personal search, they were sent to judicial
 custody. Accused Mohri Devi was formally arrested by
 Inspector Narender PW25 vide arrest memo Ex. PW14/B. IO
 also collected the CDR of the mobile phone of the deceased,
 accused and their family members. On 24.09.2016,
 complainant handed over one CD alongwith transcription to the
 IO, which was seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW8/A. The
 certificate u/s.65B of Indian Evidence Act in support of the CD
 is Ex. PW8/C. 13.On completion of investigation, police filed the charge sheet
 before the Court accusing the accused persons for the offence
 U/s 498A/304B/306/34 IPC . 14.Formal charges for the same offences for which the accused
 persons had been charge-sheeted for were framed on
 10.01.2017 to which accused persons pleaded not guilty and
 claimed to be tried. 15.To prove its case, the prosecution has examined 29 witnesses.
 Out of those, some witnesses had played very brief and formal
 role in the process of investigation. While narrating the facts of
 the case, the minor roles of many witnesses have already been
 discussed. So, there is no need to again repeat the same in
 verbatim. Brief testimonies of the remaining witnesses are
 being reproduced below : 16. PW 3 HC Shiv Om was the photographer with Crime Team,
 which had visited the spot on 29.06.2016. He took 11
 photographs of the spot, which are Exs. PW3/A1 to PW3/A11.
 This witness has also produced the negatives which are Exs.
 PW3/B1 to PW3/B11. 17. Amit Kumar Singh, Executive Magistrate has been
 examined as PW4. In pursuant to telephonic information given
 by SHO PS Mangol Puri, he directed the removal of body to
 Mortuary and also instructed the SHO to contact the relatives of
 the deceased. On 30.06.2016, he recorded statement Ex.
 PW4/A of Inderpal, brother of the deceased. He also recorded
 statement of Mahender. Thereafter, he got the body of the
 deceased identified from Inderpal and Mahender vide memos
 Exs. PW4/B and PW4/C. Thereafter, he requested the doctors
 Digitally
 signed by

 State Vs. Devender & Ors. BABRU BABRU
 Date: 18. PW6 Dr. Vipin Dabas has identified signatures of Dr. Dilip
 Kumar on MLC of the deceased Ex. PW6/A. He has stated that
 deceased was examined by JR Dr. Dilip Kumar n his presence
 and she was declared brought dead after the examination. 19. PW7 Sh. Mandeep Talwar is proprietor of Talwar Sales

 Corporation at DBG Road, Karol Bagh, New Delhi. He had
 certified the bills Exs. PW7/A and PW7/B. He has deposed that
 he had sold the electronic items on 29.01.2016 and 05.02.2016
 vide the aforesaid bills. 20. PW9 Inderpal is brother of the deceased. He has narrated the
 entire story starting from the marriage of deceased with
 accused Devender, the treatment given to her by her in-laws,
 the facts told by the deceased to them from time to time and the
 circumstances which ultimately led to her death. The facts
 deposed by Inderpal have already been delineated in detail
 while discussing the investigation of the case earlier part of this
 judgment. 21. PW8 Mahender is another brother of the deceased and he has

 deposed exactly in sync with Inderpal PW9. BABRU by BABRU
 BHAN

 BHAN Date: 22. PW10 Pawan Singh, Nodal Officer, Idea Cellular has proved
 the CAF and CDR of mobile number 8285265064, issued in
 the name of Pawan Kumar Atolia, vide Exs. PW10/A and
 PW10/C (requisite certificate u/s.65B of Indian Evidence in
 respect of the said documents is Ex. PW10/D). The witness
 further proved the identity documents of the said Pawan Kumar
 Atolia as Ex. PW10/B. 23. PW11 Israr Babu, Alternate Nodal Officer, Vodafone has

 deposed that pursuant to notice u/s.91 Cr.P.C., he provided
 CAF, CDR and certificate u/s.65B of Indian Evidence Act in
 respect of mobile numbers 9873851945, 8588972218 and
 8802714081 to Inspector Arvind Kumar through the covering
 letter Ex. PW11/A. The CAFs are Exs.PW11/B, PW11/F and
 PW11/K. CDRs are Exs. PW11/D, PW11/H and PW11/M. The
 documents in respect of identity of the persons in whose names
 the said sim numbers were issued are Exs. PW11/C, PW11/G
 and PW11/L and the certificates u/s.65B of Indian Evidence
 Act are Exs. PW11/E, PW11/J and PW11/N. 24. PW12 Chander Shekhar, Nodal Officer, Bharti Airtel has
 proved the CAF and CDR of mobile number 9213787527,
 issued in the name of Inderpal, vide Exs. PW12/A and PW12/C
 (requisite certificate u/s.65B of Indian Evidence in respect of
 the said documents is Ex. PW12/D). The witness further
 proved the identity documents of the said Inderpal as Ex. 25. PW13 Pradeep Kumar has deposed that he had obtained a
 mobile sim bearing no. 9873851945 on 20.05.2015.
 Subsequently, he had given the said sim card to Poonam, wife
 of Inderpal. Later, Inderpal gave the sim card to deceased
 Mamta @ Neelam for use. 26. PW14 Ct. Rekha is attesting witness to the disclosure

 statement and arrest memo of accused Mohri Devi which are
 Ex. PW14/A and PW14/B. 27. PW16 Sharda is the cousin of deceased Mamta @ Neelam.
 She has deposed that on 04.02.2016, i.e. after about one month
 of her marriage, Mamta @ Neelam had come to visit in-laws of
 her brother Inderpal. There, the deceased told PW16 Sharda
 and PW17 Kalpana that her in-laws used to harass her by
 comparing the dowry articles given in the marriage of Ashok
 with the articles given in her marriage. She also told that all the
 accused persons used to harass her for bringing insufficient
 dowry. All the accused persons were also pressurising her to
 bring Rs.1.5 lacs from her parental home. 28. PW17 Kalpana has deposed exactly in sync with PW16. 29. PW19 Mukesh Kumar had conducted videography of the
 postmortem. The DVD and the certificate u/s.65B of Indian
 Evidence Act in this regard are Exs. PX19 and PW19/A
 respectively. BABRU by BABRU
 BHAN

 BHAN Date: 30. PW20 Ct. Seema is attesting witness to the arrest memos of
 accused Parvati, Darshana and Kamlesh which are Exs.
 PW20/A to PW20/C. 31. PW21 Om Prakash has deposed that deceased Neelam was

 daughter of his elder brother Paras Ram and was married to
 Devender. On 25.03.2016, Inderpal informed this witness that
 in-laws of Mamta were harassing her for demand of dowry and
 they would be coming for some settlement talks. On
 27.03.2016, Inderpal requested the witness to come to his
 house for the settlement. There, in presence of all the in-laws,
 Mamta told them that her in-laws used to harass her in
 connection with demand of dowry and they used to say that
 Ashok, elder brother of Devender had received a motorcycle
 and jewellery, but nothing valuable was given in the marriage
 of Devender. She further told that her mother-in-law was
 adamant to keep her jewellery articles and used to give beatings
 to her on trivial issues. On the insistence of all, the in-laws of
 Mamta assured that nothing of such nature shall happen in
 future. Subsequently, on 29.06.2016, witness came to know
 that Mamta had committed suicide. 32. PW22 Mamta was the mediator and had played an important
 to bring the family of Devender and deceased together for the
 marriage. She had also participated in the negotiations, which
 had taken place on 27.03.2016. Regarding those facts, she has
 deposed on the same lines as deposed by PW21. She was
 informed about the death of Mamta on 29.06.2016. 33. PW24 SI Robin Tyagi was the first police officer, who
 initiated the investigation of this case after receipt of DD
 No.35. Whatever he had done during the investigation of this
 case, that has already been discussed in detail in the earlier part
 of this order and same is not required to be repeated again. 34. PW27 Ct. Bharat had accompanied SI Robin Tyagi during the

 investigation and he has deposed in sync with PW24. 35. PW28 Sh. Rakesh Kumar, Ld. MM, on an application moved
 by the IO, had asked the accused persons for their consent for
 voice sample, which they refused. His order in this regard is
 Ex. PW28A. 36. PW29 ACP Arvind Kumar is the investigating officer of this

 case. On receipt of DD No.35, he initiated the investigation and
 the got the statement of Inderpal recorded through the
 Executive Magistrate. Thereafter, he got the present FIR
 registered and arrested the accused persons via the arrest
 memos already detailed above. He collected the CDR of the
 mobile numbers of the deceased, accused and their family
 members. On 24.09.2016, complainant handed him over a CD
 alongwith transcript and same was seized by him vide seizure
 memo Ex. PW8/B (Supporting certificate u/s.65B of Indian
 Evidence is Ex. PW8/C). 37. The prosecution evidence was followed by statement of Digitally signed State Vs. Devender & Ors. BABRU by 11 of 28
 BABRU
 BHAN

 BHAN Date: 38.Arguments heard. Record perused. 39.The case of the prosecution against the accused persons is that
 deceased Mamta @ Neelam was married to accused Devender
 on 04.02.2016. Soon after the marriage, all the accused
 persons, who are in-laws of the deceased, started harassing her
 verbally and physically. They would repeatedly remind the
 deceased that the dowry brought by her was too insufficient in
 comparison to what they had received in the marriage of
 Ashok, the elder brother of accused Devender. The mother-in-
 law had kept all her ornaments and the deceased was not even
 permitted to use a mobile phone. This continuous harassment
 for dowry and unnecessary restrictions imposed by the in-laws
 pushed the deceased towards suicide. 40.To prove the offence u/s.304B IPC, the prosecution is required
 to prove some basic ingredients of the offence. To invoke this
 offence, firstly, it has to be proved that the death of the woman
 has been caused by burns or bodily injury, or has occurred
 otherwise than normal circumstances. Secondly, the unnatural
 death has occurred within seven years of marriage and lastly,
 the deceased was being subjected to cruelty or harassment by
 Digitally
 signed by

 State Vs. Devender & Ors. BABRU BABRU
 Date: Cause of death has been proved by Dr. Manish Wadhawan
 PW5, who had conducted the postmortem on the body of the
 deceased. He has mentioned in the PM report that death was
 result of ante-mortem hanging. So, the prosecution has proved
 successfully that the deceased had died an unnatural death
 within seven years of her marriage. 41.Now, comes the third and most important ingredient of the
 offence that deceased was being subjected to cruelty or
 harassment soon before her death. If the prosecution proves
 this ingredient, a presumption provided u/s 113(B) of Indian
 Evidence Act shall arise in favour of the prosecution and
 against the accused that the death of the deceased was a dowry
 death. The burden shall then shift towards the accused persons
 to rebut the presumption by proving the opposite that the death
 was not a dowry death. 42.To prove this ingredient of cruelty, prosecution has produced
 many witnesses, PW8 Mahender and PW9 Inderpal, being the
 most material among them. Both of them are brothers of the Digitally signed State Vs. Devender & Ors. BABRU by BABRU
 BHAN 13 of 28
 BHAN 2024.01.29
 Date: 43.PW8 further deposed that accused Mohri Devi used to
 pressurise Mamta for giving birth to a baby. PW8 further stated
 that on 23.06.2016, at about 3.00 - 3.30 p.m., he telephonically
 contacted Mamta and overheard indistinct voices of quarrel
 between Mamta and her in-laws. On 27.06.2016, this witness
 alongwith his brother Inderpal PW9 went to the matrimonial Digitally signed by BABRU BABRU BHAN
 Date: 44.A statement similar to that of Mahender PW8, has been given
 by Inderpal PW9. 45.Sharda PW16 and Kalpana PW17, both are cousin sisters of
 deceased Mamta. They both have testified that on 04.02.2016,
 after about one month of marriage, deceased Mamta @ Neelam
 had come to visit in-laws of brother Inderpal at Karol Bagh.
 They happened to meet the deceased that day. There, deceased
 told them that her in-laws used to harass her and used to taunt
 her by the dowry given in her marriage with the dowry given in
 the marriage of accused Ashok. The accused persons would say
 that accused Ashok had received jewellery and motorcycle but
 nothing was given in her marriage. They would derogatorily
 address the family of deceased as 'kangla'. She also stated that
 accused Parvati, Kamlesh, Darshana and Mohri Devi used to
 pressurise her to bring Rs.1.5 lacs for business of accused
 Devender. Accused Mohri Devi used to pressurise her to give
 birth to a baby. BABRU Digitally signed
 by BABRU BHAN

 BHAN Date: 2024.01.29
 12:50:22 +0530 State Vs. Devender & Ors. 15 of 28 16 46.PW21 Om Prakash and PW22 Mamta had participated in the
 negotiations between the families of the deceased and the
 accused persons on 27.03.2016. They both have stated that
 Mamta told them there that her in-laws used to harass her on
 bringing insufficient dowry. Accused Mohri Devi had kept all
 her jewellery and used to beat her on trivial issues. 47.Logically, before entering into the probable effects and
 consequences of a particular act, firstly the act itself has to be
 proved. The unnatural death, for the offence u/s.304B IPC,
 must be preceded by immediate cruelty and harassment by the
 accused and that cruelty must be the reason for the unnatural
 death. That requisite cruelty can be a specific instance or a
 continuous conduct consisting of series of acts or omissions. In
 both the cases, the specific instance or the series consisting of
 multiple acts have to be proved specifically, clearly and
 coherently. The general, ambiguous and omnibus allegations
 without specifying any particular incident and specific role
 played by each accused individually, shall not be sufficient to
 prove the requisite cruelty in a criminal case. In other words,
 the cruelty which ultimately led to the unnatural death of the
 victim has to be proved specifically like any other fact. Some of
 the Hon'ble High Courts and even Hon'ble Apex Court of India
 have also expressed the view that general allegations without
 any specific role and instance are not sufficient to fasten the
 criminal liability upon the accused. 48.Some of the judgments where the Hon'ble Higher Courts have
 given observations upon the effect of general allegations are
 reproduced under. 49.In case titled as Shivendra Raizada and Ors. Vs. State of UP
 and Ors. , the Hon'ble Allahabad High Court has held that
 "We, therefore, deem it just and legally
 appropriate to quash the proceedings initiated against
 the appellants Geeta Mehrotra and Ramji Mehrotra as
 the FIR does not disclose any material which could be
 held to be constituting any offence against these two
 appellants. Merely by making a general allegation that
 they were also involved in physical and mental torture
 of the complainant-respondent No.2 without
 mentioning even a single incident against them as also
 the fact as to how they could be motivated to demand
 dowry when they are only related as brother and sister
 of the complainant's husband, we are pleased to quash
 and set aside the criminal proceedings in so far as
 these appellants are concerned and consequently the
 order passed by the High Court shall stand overruled.
 The appeal accordingly is allowed." 50.Further, in case titled as Kahkashan Kausar @ Sonam and
 Ors. Vs. State of Bihar 2022, SC, Hon'ble SC of India has
 held as under: 51.Similarly in the matter of Neelu Chopra and another Vs.
 Bharti reported in (2009) 10 SCC 184 while quashing the
 proceedings against father-in-law and mother-in-law has
 observed as under: 52.Now, coming to the facts of the present case, the testimonies of
 the prosecution witnesses would reveal that they have levelled
 collective and vague allegations against the accused persons
 that they all would harass the deceased for not bringing the
 sufficient dowry. They would say to her that dowry brought by
 her was lesser than what they had received in marriage of
 accused Ashok. They would taunt her and would point out fault
 in every household chore. The testimonies of the prosecution
 witnesses would reveal that neither any specific instance of any
 such cruelty had been elaborated, nor the manner of the cruelty
 and the actual role played by each accused individually. The
 allegations are general and omnibus in nature. No specific role
 has been attributed to any accused. As has been held by the
 various Hon'ble High Courts and the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 the judgments referred above, these general and omnibus
 allegations against all the accused persons shall not be
 sufficient to prove the requisite cruelties for demand of dowry. 53.Though generally, but some of the witnesses have also stated
 that deceased Mamta had told them that accused persons used
 Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU BABRU BHAN
 State Vs. Devender & Ors. Date: to give beatings to her. Again, it has not been specified that
 when such beating was given and by which accused. Further,
 any severe beating would often result into physical injuries for
 which any ordinary human being is expected to avail medical
 help. In case deceased was used to be given beatings by the
 accused persons, she must have suffered injuries and had
 therefore, availed some medical help on some occasions.
 Surprisingly, no such medical document has been produced
 before the court. It is admitted case of the prosecution that prior
 to registration of this case, no such incident of beating was ever
 reported by the deceased to the police or any other authority.
 This fact also goes against the genuineness of the allegations
 levelled against the accused persons. 54.One specific allegation levelled against accused Devender, who
 is husband of the deceased is that he was not interested in his
 job and wanted to start his own business. He was in need of
 money for his business and, therefore, was persistently asking
 the deceased to arrange Rs.1 - 1.5 lacs from her parental home.
 For the purpose of Section 304B IPC, the underline objective of
 the cruelty which is inflicted upon the victim must be dowry. If
 the cruelty or harassment is inflicted for some other purpose
 including the demand of money, which has no relation with the
 marriage, shall not amount to cruelty for purpose of this offence
 u/s 304B IPC . The definition of dowry has been given u/s.2 of
 Dowry Prohibition Act 1961, which reads as under : at or before the marriage as consideration for the marriage
 of the said parties, but does not include dower or mahr in
 the case of persons to whom the Muslim Personal Law
 (Shariat) applies. Explanation 1 : For the removal of doubts it is hereby
 declared that any presents made at the time of marriage of
 either party to the marriage in the form of cash,
 ornaments, clothes or other articles, shall not be deemed to
 be dowry within the meaning of this section, unless they are
 made as consideration for the marriage of the said parties.
 Explanation II : The expression "valuable security" has the
 same meaning as in section 30 of the Indian Penal Code
 (45 of 1860)". 55.Thus, as per the statutory definition, dowry means any money
 or valuable security demanded directly or indirectly in
 connection with the marriage. In this case, even if this Court
 believes the allegations that accused Devender was demanding
 Rs.1 - 1.5 lacs from the deceased for starting his business, that
 demand not being connected to the marriage, shall not fall
 within the definition of dowry. So, even if, that money was
 being demanded by accused Devender and was repeatedly
 harassing the deceased for the same, that conduct may amount
 to mental cruelty but that cruelty shall not fall within the scope
 of cruelty required for Section 304B IPC. 56.Even otherwise, it is common practice in our society to seek Digitally signed BABRU by BABRU

 State Vs. Devender & Ors. 21 of 28
 BHAN

 BHAN Date: 57.Another specific allegation has been levelled against Mohri
 Devi, mother-in-law of the deceased, that she had kept the
 jewellery articles of the deceased with her and was not
 permitting the deceased to wear the same. Firstly, this Court has
 perused the testimonies of all the prosecution witnesses. They
 have neither produced any document, nor have elaborated the
 jewellery articles, which were given to the deceased but were
 not being permitted to be worn by the deceased, by accused
 Mohri Devi. So, firstly the allegation that accused Mohri Devi
 had kept all the jewellery articles of the deceased with her
 appears to be vague and ambiguous. Secondly, if the deceased
 was so annoyed with the aforesaid conduct of Mohri Devi, she
 Digitally
 signed by
 State Vs. Devender & Ors. BABRU BABRU
 Date: 58.Mahender PW8 has deposed that on 23.06.2016, at about 3.00 - 3.30 p.m., he received a call from deceased Mamta. During
 the call, he overheard noise of quarrel, which was probably
 going between Mamta and her in-laws. The said conversation
 of quarrel got recorded in his mobile phone. The DVD of said
 conversation has been filed on record as Ex. PW8/Article 1 and
 the transcript of the same is Ex. PW8/D. Prosecution has relied
 upon this conversation and the transcript to prove a specific
 instance of the cruelty against the deceased soon before her
 death. This Court has carefully listen to the conversation
 contained in the DVD and has also gone to the transcript Ex.
 PW8/D. In the DVD, all the speakers who are identified as the
 in-laws of the deceased and the deceased herself by Mahender
 PW-8, are heard hurling abuses upon each other and
 exchanging hot words. They are levelling allegations and
 counter allegations against each other. In conversation, they are
 heard quarreling on skirmish issues. Accused Devender is
 apparently taking favour of the deceased, upon which the sister-
 in-law and mother-in-law are heard abusing accused Devender
 also. It also doesn't appear that deceased Mamta was the victim
 and all other in-laws were the aggressors. She is heard actively
 participating and responding to her mother-in-law and sister-in- Digitally
 signed by State Vs. Devender & Ors. BABRU BABRU BHAN 23 of 28
 Date: law in the same manner and same language. It is also
 interesting to note that during this quarrel, the issue of dowry
 never came in the discussion. None of the participants of the
 argument has even whispered a single word about dowry or
 anything like that. They are apparently quarreling and abusing
 each other on trivial issues. Everyone appears to be an
 aggressor and defender as well. So, this recorded conversation,
 even if admitted as a valid piece of evidence and the voices are
 believed to be of the persons as identified by Mahender PW8 in
 the transcript Ex. PW8/D, would not do any cruelty for demand
 of dowry against any of the accused persons. 59.During cross-examination of Inderpal PW9, Ld. Defence
 Counsel gave him a specific suggestion that when he visited the
 house of Devender with the prospective of marriage of his
 sister, he found the family of Devender in a better financial
 condition than their family. PW9 further admitted that there
 was no proposal of demand of dowry between the family at the
 time of solemnization of marriage. PW8 Mahender has also
 stated in his cross-examination that marriage of deceased with
 accused Devender was a simple marriage without any
 extravagance. These statements of PW8 and PW9 made by
 them during their cross-examination are suggesting that the
 family of accused Devender was financially better well off than
 the family of deceased. Probably due to this reason, neither
 they demanded any dowry at the time of the engagement, nor
 subsequently asked for any extravagant marriage. Had there Digitally signed BABRU by BABRU
 BHAN
 BHAN Date: 2024.01.29
 12:51:13 +0530 State Vs. Devender & Ors. 24 of 28 25 been any expectation on the part of family of the accused, they
 would have definitely reflected the same through their conduct,
 or even expressed it when talks of marriage were going on
 between the parties. 60.It appears from the evidence discussed above that although the
 deceased and her in-laws used to enter into heated arguments
 very oftenly over trivial and skirmish issues but the dowry
 never remained a reason for dispute between them. Therefore,
 the allegations of 498A/304B shall not stand the ground against
 any of the accused. 61.The accused persons have also been charged for offence
 u/s.306 IPC . Section 306 IPC is abetment to suicide. Since
 abetment is one of the essential ingredients of this offence, the
 Court shall start the discussion relating to this offence with the
 definition of abetment provided u/s.107 IPC and the specific
 statutory provision relating to abetment to suicide. 62.Further the abetment is defined U/s 107 IPC . The statutory
 provision reads as under: 63.In case of Mariano Anto Gruno Vs. Inspector of Police , Digitally signed State Vs. Devender & Ors. BABRU by BABRU
 BHAN 25 of 28
 BHAN Date: BABRU Digitally signed
 by BABRU BHAN

 BHAN 12:51:36 +0530
 Date: 2024.01.29

 Announced in open (BABRU BHAN)
 Court on 23 day of
 rd
 ADDL.SESSIONS JUDGE - 03
 January 2024 NORTH WEST, ROHINI COURTS,
 DELHI/23.01.2024

 State Vs. Devender & Ors. 28 of 28