The Digital Services Act (DSA) started applying on February 17 to all online intermediaries serving users in the European Union (EU). The law prescribes various measures for intermediaries to ensure users’ online safety and it applies to a wide range of platforms including social media, e-commerce, search engines, hosting providers, app stores, etc.  It has been in effect for 19 designated large platforms and search engines since August 2023 and now extends to other intermediaries, albeit the regulations are less stringent for the others. Only small and micro enterprises employing fewer than 50 persons and with an annual turnover below €10 million are exempt from this law.

“Under the DSA, EU users are better protected against illegal goods and content and have their rights upheld on online platforms where they connect with other users, share information, or buy products,” the  European Commission noted.

The DSA, along with the Digital Markets Act , are the EU’s latest regulations to govern the online space.

Online platforms with users in the EU must implement measures to:

The European Commission will oversee compliance with the DMA for Very Large Online Platforms (VLOPs) and Very Large Online Search Engines (VLOSEs), whereas Digital Services Coordinators at each Member State of the EU will oversee compliance by all other intermediaries. The European Board for Digital Services, which will be formed by the Digital Services Coordinators and the Commission, will ensure coordination between the various authorities and consistent application of the law in different jurisdictions, the Commission explained.

You can read more about the obligations under the DSA over here .

Also Read

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event