https://tenor.com/bEWai.gif

By choosing cash-on-delivery rather than paying online, you don’t really avoid paying for that product, it’s just that you pay later. Google’s changes to Play Store work similarly: Allowing developers to use third-party billing systems alongside Google’s billing system is not the win for developers that it appears to be. The company is still going to levy the dreaded “Google tax.” Although Google will reduce the commission by a teeny weeny bit, what developers save with one hand will most likely get spent by the other as they have to shell out that money to the third-party provider they choose.

What’s more, the competition watchdog CCI may not be willing to wade into the pricing issue either. Its orders to Google were about giving ‘other choices’ to developers, and not really about how much commission Google ‘should’ charge. Then, what really is in the changes for developers, users, smartphone manufacturers? Tune in to our MediaNama Briefing today at 3 pm, where we discuss this and more. [ Read , 2 minutes]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

TELECOM AND ACCESS

TRAI seeks feedback on digital convergence: It seems like India’s telecom watchdog has come out with a consultation paper on regulating converged digital technologies and services. It may be timely as convergence means bringing unrelated technologies together in a single device like smartphones. The paper deals with issues enabling convergence of carriage of broadcasting services and telecommunication services. [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

PRIVACY, SURVEILLANCE

Andhra workers tire of facial recognition attendance: First the teachers, then doctors and now sanitation workers in Andhra Pradesh are tired of facial recognition-based attendance. Many have told the government that they would rather have higher payment or health insurance than such AI-based technologies. But are their pleas falling on deaf ears? [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

https://tenor.com/bkE9V.gif

DIGITIZATION OF HEALTH

Practo partners with government: A round 12 integrators, including Practo have partnered with the government to help develop India’s health stack, informed Kiran Gopal, director at the National Health Authority (NHA). Steps like these will lead to exchange of sensitive health information between multiple entities, which may open up new business opportunities, and at the same time, increase the risk of this sensitive health data being breached. [ Read ?,3 minutes]

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE

ChatGPT goes Uncle Ben on us: We prompted the wildly popular AI tool ChatGPT to write a poem on facial recognition in India, and it included Uncle Ben’s famous words to Peter Parker: “With great power, comes great responsibility” in its verses. Cute much? The government better be listening!  [ Read , ? 1 minute]

4chan users embrace AI voice clone tool to generate celebrity hatespeech [Read] (James Vincent/ The Verge)

The ‘OK Computer’ [Read] (Adi Robertson/ The Verge)

A New Tracker Promises to Collect a Lot More of Your Data. Its Maker Says That’s Better For Your Privacy. [Read] (Thomas Germain/ Gizmodo)

TikTok’s CEO is headed to Congress to testify about user privacy and safety [Read] (Matt Binder/ Mashable)

ChatGPT Is Making Universities Rethink Plagiarism [Read] (Sofia Barnett/ Wired)

Google Fi says hackers accessed customers’ information [Read] (Carly Page/ Tech Crunch)

Elon Musk pushes forward with Twitter payments vision [Read] (Hannah Murphy/ Financial Times)

The generative AI revolution has begun—how did we get here? [Read] (Haomiao Huang/ Ars Technica)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event