1. The petitioner seeks grant of anticipatory bail in respect of aforementioned

 FIR. 2. The FIR was lodged at the instance of Gursharan Singh Gogia, wherein it is

 stated that he knows one Ranjit Singh since the last 10-12 years. About 2

 months back, he received a call from said Ranjit Singh and who later came

 to meet him alongwith Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh on 11.10.2023 at

 his house in Khanna and requested him to introduce them to M.K. (Lala),

VIMAL KUMAR who was residing in Khanna. Said Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh 2024.04.22 18:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document (2) CRM-M-13941-2024 (O&M) )

 proclaimed that they have a drug for curing cancer, which is very expensive

 and that said M.K. @ Mursalin has a customer for the same. Harpreet Singh

 and Gurpreet Singh passed on a telephone number of M.K. @ Mursalin to

 the complainant. The complainant called M.K. @ Mursalin telephonically

 and arranged for a meeting. When M.K. @ Mursalin came to meet the

 complainant, he told the complainant that he has a potential customer for the

 cancer drug and that on an earlier occasion he had earned a profit of Rs.1.5

 crores by selling the same and thus, allured the complainant to get associated

 with him. On 14.10.2023, Ranjit Singh @ Malwai, Harpreet Singh and

 M.K. @ Mursalin met the complainant at Sahil Hotel, Sirhind and told the

 complainant that Harpreet Singh and his other associates have dragon, which

 is used for treatment of cancer and that M.K. @ Mursalin knows a

 pharmaceutical company interested in purchasing the same. It is further

 alleged that on 16.10.2023, M.K. @ Mursalin came alongwith a purchaser

 party and took the complainant alongwith them towards Kalesar forest

 where Harpreet Singh and Ranjit Singh were present and who showed the

 animal to the purchaser, who had come from Delhi. M.K. @ Mursalin

 agreed to purchase the dragon from Harpreet Singh for Rs.5.70 crores and

 stuck a deal with the purchaser for Rs.8.85 crores. The complainant was

 impressed with the huge amount projected as profit. However, the deal

 could not materialize, as M.K. @ Mursalin was falling short of some

 amount. M.K. @ Mursalin allured the complainant to invest money by

 representing that they could earn a profit of Rs.3 crores by arranging the

 deficit payment. It is alleged that the said person, thus, induced the

 complainant to become their partner and on 18.10.2023, the complainant

 alongwith his father Sohan Singh went to the accused alongwith an amount VIMAL KUMAR 2024.04.22 18:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document (3) CRM-M-13941-2024 (O&M) )

 of Rs.1.80 crores out of which 1.60 crores was handed over to them near

 Zirakpur and from there, they proceeded to Kalesar, where the complainant

 was made to sign on certain documents on the pretext that an agreement is

 required to be executed. Later, the complainant was dropped at Saha. When

 the complainant demanded his share of profit, the accused kept on dilly-

 dallying the matter and later started threatening him to cause loss to his life

 as well as of other members of his family. The complainant, thus, alleged

 that he had been defrauded. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that he has falsely been

 implicated in the present case and that there is no evidence worth credence

 to connect the petitioner with the alleged occurrence. Learned counsel

 submits that even if all the allegations, as leveled in the FIR, are taken to be

 correct, the only role that may be attributed to the petitioner is that he had

 accompanied the co-accused. 4. Opposing the petition, learned State counsel submitted that the petitioner is

 part & parcel of the entire scam and otherwise also stands involved in

 several other cases indicating that he is a seasoned criminal. It has been

 submitted that the name of the petitioner specifically figures in the FIR and

 as such, having regard to the nature of allegations and the amount alleged to

 be defrauded, his custodial interrogation would be required. 5. This Court has considered rival submissions. 6. The allegations pertain to defrauding the complainant of huge amount. The

 petitioner is specifically named in the FIR. It is a case where all the accused

 induced the complainant to believe that they were actually into the business

 of selling a 'dragon' said to be helpful in treating cancer. While some of the VIMAL KUMAR 2024.04.22 18:57 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document (4) CRM-M-13941-2024 (O&M) )

 accused have acted as sellers of the 'dragon' having medicinal properties,

 some other accused projected themselves as prospective customers. The

 petitioner was actively associated with all the co-accused including his

 brother Gurpreet Singh. The petitioner has a chequered history having been

 involved in other cases as well. As such, his custodial interrogation would

 certainly be required to unearth all the finer details of entire scam. No

 special case for grant of anticipatory bail is made out. 7. The petition is sans merit and is hereby dismissed.