The present revision petition under section 397 / 399 of Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( Cr.P.C ) is filed on behalf of the revisionist
for setting aside the order dated 13.09.2023 (impugned order) passed by
the Court of Ms. Vijay Shree Rathore, Ld. MM-06, South, Saket Courts,
New Delhi (Ld. Trial Court) in case titled 'Chiraag Kapil Vs Mukul
Rustagi & Ors.' Ct. Case No. 176/2023 whereby the application under section 156(3) Cr.P.C for registration of first information report (FIR)
against the respondents got dismissed. 2. The brief facts which are essential to note herein for
disposal of the present revision petition are as under. 2.1. Revisionist is a young professional having B.Tech Degree
holder from Delhi Technological University and is the CEO of Sarthi,
which is an ed-tech platform which provides the eduction to the lowest
level of the society so that the large goal of the community i.e. education
for all is achieved. 2.2. The revisionist started Saarthi company in December 2019
which provides a platform for students to take a teacher to prepare
unlimited quiz and tests for various competitive exams and the business
of the revisionist had been running successfully. 2.3. Respondents and their company i.e. Buch
Microtechnologies Private Ltd. operates under the brand Names
"Classplus' which is also an ed-tech platform which is engaged in the
business of facilitating and providing coaching institutes with Mobile
application. In order to lure and induce the revisionist into believing
them, Respondent No. 1 to 3 represented that the respondent No.4
company i.e. Bunch Micro Technologies Pvt. Ltd. is a large organization
which is operating in the same field of business and also have huge
investor base including both Indian as well as foreign investors. Respondent no.1 to 3 further lured the revisionist into believing that it
will be in the best interest that the revisionist joins hands and works with
them and they even offered various incentives and benefits in order to
further induce him into believing them which they knew from the
inception that was also false and had no intention fulfill the same. 2.4. Sometime around 2nd - 3rd week of October 2021,
respondents approached the revisionist with intention to work together
as partners and similar to Saarthi, the platform of the respondents
company also provided audio and video content on various subjects and
also enables the students to take online self-assessments. Respondents
asked the revisionist to share a complete strategy and growth plan for
Saarthi so that they could make an offer to the revisionist. Respondents
informed the revisionist that they have already taken their investors into
confidence and all of them are quite well aware about the revisionist's
company profile and excited about the potential of working together. 2.5. Revisionist was quite reluctant initially, however, there
were consistent follow ups and continuous luring and inducement by the
respondents individually and collectively and multiple other alternatives
were offered to lure the revisionist and to gain his trust and induced him
into believing the representations of the respondents. During
negotiations to induce and lure the revisionist, more benefits such as
increased sales and higher value for equity and profit margin were
promised by the respondents to enter into an association with them
whereby the revisionist had to provide confidential technology as well

 Page No. 4 of 16 Digitally
 signed by
 NAVJEET
 NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: Revisionist was also happy and excited to get such profitable and
encouraging offers, however, the revisionist as well as their investors
were unaware that they were being trapped slowly and surreptitiously. 2.9. After much persuasion, the respondents shared the draft of
a non-disclosure agreement(NDA) which was signed between the
revisionist and respondents on 22.11.2021 in order to pacify the
revisionist. The NDA was general in nature and did not disclose nature
of our relation /status in the partnership concern. 2.10. When the respondents shared the term sheet with the
revisionist, some shocking revelations came to fore. Some unfavorable
offers/clauses were added/deleted like (a) Instead of offering equity
partnership, the respondents came up with a scheme of the employee
stock option plan" (b) there was no mention of the revisionist's investors'
Equity, and (c) additional clause of exclusivity and non-complete were Page No. 6 of 16 added in the offers so far made After sharing all data/ growth plan
including MIS with respondents and their investors, the revisionist was
left with little option to opt out from the deal of the respondents who
now started to show their true colours. The revisionist's status in his own
company was being reduced from equity partner to equity employees. 2.11. However, the respondents kept on alluring the revisionist
that final stock option letter, Business Transfer Agreement (BTA) and
Employment Agreement will take care of all the interest and profits as
promised by the said respondents. 2.12. When the revisionist objected vehemently on change of
status from partner to employee, the revisionist was suggested by the
respondents that Bunch Microtechnologies Pvt Ltd is a huge entity and
has various stakeholders, including foreign nationals and formal
processes for the revisionist's induction may take a lot of time, including
approvals from the relevant government departments. Thus, the
revisionist was proposed that to protect his interest and for the purposes
of convenience, the revisionist would be kept as an employee whereby
he shall be given all benefits as promised by the respondents and agreed
to in writing by virtue of the employment agreement. Being novice in
such transaction and legalities, the revisionist could not sense much and
again got trapped in their well-knit trap of the respondents. 2.13. During the month of December 2021 to February 2022, the
respondents induced the revisionist to give them the left over

 Page No. 7 of 16 Digitally
 signed by
 NAVJEET
 NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: The respondents kept on assuring the revisionist that the revisionist and
his investors will get everything as promised, and that the revisionist
should trust the respondents. Having no other option the revisionist
signed the said Employment Agreement and BTA. 2.16. Sometime in the month of July 2022 one seller misused the
 Digitally
 signed by
 Page No. 8 of 16 NAVJEET
 NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: Digitally
 signed by
 NAVJEET
 NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: 3. Formal reply to the revision petition as well as condonation
of delay application came to be filed on behalf of respondent no.2 and 3
separately and common reply was put forth on behalf of respondent no.1
and 4. CONDONATION OF DELAY 4. To begin with, an application for condonation of delay of
62 days in filing the revision is being considered. The whys and
wherefores of the delay in filing the revision as mentioned in the
application are that revisionist's sister marriage was solemnized in
December 2023 and revisionist own marriage took place in January
2024 and further counsel for revisionist was unwell on account of an
infection in the last week of January 2024 till first week of February
2024. 4.1. The impugned order is dated 13.09.2023 and the grounds
for condoning the delay have been raised for the period from December
2023, particularly from 05.12.2023 to 07.12.2023, when the marriage of
sister of the revisionist was solemnized, thus, it is plain that the
revisionist failed to file the revision petition during the substantive
period after the impugned order for which no plausible justification has
been set forth and the justification, as alleged above, pertains to the Page No. 10 of 16 period towards the fag end of the stipulated limitation period. Therefore,
as such, the application for condonation of delay in filing the revision
petition does not deserve any consideration. Nonetheless, I proceed to
examine the revision petition on its merits for the sake of completeness. ANALYSIS 5. Post hearing Ld. Counsels for both the sides and wading
through the record of the case, this court is of the considered opinion
that the present revision petition lacks the spine for any kind of
interference in the impugned order whereby the application of the
revisionists seeking investigation through the agency of the police was
jettisoned in as much as the allegations leveled therein against the
respondents appears to have civil flavors which have been attempted to
be given semblance of criminality by the revisionists but in vain, for the
reasons indicated infra. 6. Though, it is the asseveration of the revisionists that the
respondents have cheated by alluring him by offering to invest money in
his business and made various representations to him for successful
business model which they knew was false from inception but the
averments made in the complaint itself are dispositive of the fact that the
revisionists entered into transactions with the respondents post
comprehensive parleys and it is only when his employment was
terminated by the respondents, he appears to have spurred into action
and filed the complaint against them. Digitally
 signed by
 NAVJEET
 NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: 7. Revisionist has claimed to be a founder and CEO of
Saarthi, an ed-tech platform and allied services and respondents and
their company are also stated to be in the same business under the brand
name of 'Classplus'. Revisionist further postulated that around 2nd-3rd
week of October 2021, respondents approached him with the intention
to work together as partners and during various discussions, they asked
the revisionist to share a complete strategy and growth plan for Saarthi
so that they can make an offer to the revisionist. Thus, it is an admitted
case of the revisionist in paragraph 13 that various discussions took
place between him and the respondents. The fact that deliberations were
held between the revisionist and the respondents on various occasions,
the allegation of inducement being exercised upon the revisionist would
pale into insignificance. 8. Revisionist further asseverated in paragraph 14 of the
original complaint that during negotiation, more benefits were promised
to him by the respondents, which fact again would indicate that
revisionist had multiple negotiations with respondents before he went on
to associate with them. It is further the case of the revisionist that in the
last two weeks of October 2021, he was trapped by the respondents by
intensive allurement and enticement to share all the confidential data /
technology / growth plan and strategy including management
information system (MIS) of his company but revisionist has failed to
proffer the details of those confidential data and technology which he
shared with the respondents. It was incumbent upon the revisionist to Page No. 12 of 16 Digitally signed by NAVJEET NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: 9. Further in paragraph 16 of the original complaint,
revisionist culled out the offer made to him by the respondents and that
a draft agreement was shared with him which was never
executed/implemented. Needless to say that until and unless an
agreement is executed between the parties, terms and conditions
mentioned in the draft agreement cannot be said to be binding upon
either of them. The screen shots of communication with the respondents
in relation to the promises made to the revisionist also would not be of
much assistance to him unless those promises are contractualized. 10. It is further the stand of the revisionist in paragraph 18 that
he was promised execution of the agreements which would have been
profitable to him and he was further allured to share technology and
information and after much persuasion, respondents shared the draft of
non disclosure statement with him which was signed by him and the
respondents on 22.11.2021. Significantly, there is no such averment of
the revisionist that he signed the non disclosure statement under any
compulsion from the respondents. It is his stand that he signed the same
to pacify the respondents but given the fact that revisionist has claimed
to have been consistently allured and enticed by the respondents to share
his data and technology with them, the natural conduct of the revisionist
ought to have been to exercise more circumspection while executing non
disclosure statement, which is missing on his part. 11. Further, in paragraph 20 of the original complaint, it is
claim of the revisionist that after having been shared the term sheet to
him, some shocking revelations came to fore which were mentioned
therein and when he objected vehemently on the change of status from
partner to employee, but respondents sought to protect his interest and
promised him all the benefits by virtue of employment agreement. It is
further the claim of the revisionist that during the month of December
2021 to February 2022, respondents induced him to give them the left
over information and directed the revisionist to look after building a
team by hiring more people. Again, in such eventuality, the normal
demeanor of the revisionist would have been to put his foot down and
refuse to share left over information but there is no such averment on the
part of the revisionist, the implication of which would be that the
revisionist was a consenting party through out the entire transaction with
the respondents. 12. Further, in paragraph 23 of the original complaint,
revisionist has spoken about the inadvertent act of the respondents in
inviting one of the investors of the revisionist without there being any
formal agreement with him but despite that on 01.03.2022, revisionist
went on to sign a business transfer agreement (BTA) and employment
agreement with the respondents. Admittedly, he also signed and
executed stock option letter on 01.04.2022. Though, he claimed to have
raised various objections to these agreements but no material to this
effect in black and white has been placed on record by the revisionist. 13. Further, though, it is the stand of the revisionist that he was
left with no option but to sign BTA and employment agreement but it is
again an irrefragable position that the revisionist received a sum of
Rs.2,56,93,495/- from respondents which fact was revealed in the action
taken report by SI Sumit PS Hauz Khas dated 07.06.2023. the
revisionist has further asserted that he was to be given Rs.3,32,17,500/-
and an effective compensation to the tune of Rs.1 crore per annum but
subsequently he was terminated by the respondents unethically. This
circumstance of the receipt of sum of Rs.2,56,93,495/- by the revisionist
from the respondents pursuant to BTA and employment agreement and
his grouse against them of not receiving promised amount would prima
face bring the entire transaction within the realm of a civil contractual
dispute and, thus, the penal provisions of IPC as invoked by the
revisionist are not attracted herein. Still, the Ld. Trial Court deemed it
judicious to accord an opportunity to the revisionist to lead pre-
summoning evidence for establishing the allegations leveled by him
against the respondents, thus, the impugned order does not warrant any
kind of interference from this court. 14. On the aspect of the revisionist enforcing his contractual
remedies, during arguments, the court was illuminated with the fact that
revisionist has already exercised his civil remedy by invoking the
jurisdiction of High Court wherein the matter was referred to arbitration,
which has been on going between the parties. Digitally
 signed by
 NAVJEET
 NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: 15. Resultantly, for the aforesaid reasons and the reasons
supplied by Ld. Trial Court in the impugned order, this court does not
see any infirmity in the impugned order which warrants revision of the
same. Hence, the present revision petition stands dismissed. Digitally
 signed by
 NAVJEET
 NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: Certified that this Judgment contains 16 pages and
each page bears my signatures. Digitally
 signed by
 NAVJEET
 NAVJEET BUDHIRAJ
 BUDHIRAJ Date: