SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Amazon delivery guy made me pay for a prepaid order. What should i do?
DATE: 2024-09-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1famwuv/amazon_delivery_guy_made_me_pay_for_a_prepaid/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR; I was forced to pay for a prepaid charge, and it's been about a month, Amazon is not refunding my amount. I did complain at the consumer forum, but I didn't hear back from them. Kindly suggest low-cost solutions for pressing legal charges on Amazon, not just for the refund but for all the mental harassment that I've had to endure, which I've described below: 
 
On 8th of August, I ordered a Yamaka keyboard, which was supposed to arrive on 12th of Aug, a gift for someone. 
 
I made the payment online for the same on 8th itself.

https://preview.redd.it/zh53ypyzf8nd1.jpg?width=1084&amp;format=pjpg&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=45a6a6e00ced34ed4484157cec596352594e1f16

On 12th the delivery guy comes to my home at about 11 am, calls me outside, starts searching his vehicle for the product, but he fails to find it, and I'm like, no problem bhaiyya, jab mile tab aa jaana... Main ghar k andar wait karta hun 
 
He went, without informing me.

I called him, 2 hours later, he said he couldn't find my product, but once he does, he'll come back. But he didn't come till 5 pm. I called him, but he didn't receive it, and started ignoring my calls. 
 
I called him multiple times, finally, he picked up and requested me to go to the warehouse.

I went to the warehouse at about 6:30 pm. 
I told them the situation. They started searching for my product in the warehouse. Only to find nothing(or they pretended to not find it). 
 
They kept asking my to go back, but I couldn't, it was a gift, and timing matters, right?

So, at about 7:45 pm, I spot the product right there. I asked them to take it out, and they did. 
 
I thought finally I'll be able to take it home. But wait a minute, here's when the actual problem started!!

They read the label on it, and informed me that the product got returned. I was shocked since I didn't return it. I asked them to take care of it anyway, roll back or something, and hand over my product to me. 
 
Then, the emotional blackmail started.

"Sir, the product has been returned for some reason, and the refund to you is also initiated, if we still hand over the product to you, we'll suffer loss. We(the delivery agents) hardly get 15 rupees per order. How will we pay this huge amount"

So, I called the amazon customer care. First thing first, please note , you just can't get to amazon customer care with your complaints. These people have made it tougher than climbing the everest. 
 
But I knew how to reach out, because of previous experiences.

The customer executive told me the product wasn't returned as per their system and the delivery agents are sharing the wrong information with you. You tell them to give it to you(as if I didn't request them a million times already)

Finally, at about 8:45 pm, after literally talking to the customer executive for an hour, one of the warehouse managers said, you give us cash and take the product, anyways the refund is already initiated. I was like, "brother, you could've told this earlier" 
 
Finally, relieved!

I was about to transfer 13179 to one of the delivery agents when somebody pointed out that I have to transfer 14399, the cost before the bank discount. I was like, that's not happening, I got the discount online already. Why should I miss that!!

Again the emotional blackmailing started, and I finally gave up, left the warehouse, and was on the road to my home. 
 
But I was restless, why!! 
Why is the customer taken as granted by these big companies nowadays?? 
And so i decided to return to the warehouse at about 9. 
I told them, see it's your mistake that you returned the product, you suffer the loss, why should I pay extra. You are so many people, just split the extra 1200 rupees loss among yourself. And they agreed. 
 
I was about to pay 13179. And then it hit me!! 
 
What if they mark my order as lost in transit?? 
I won't be able to claim warranty or replace the product incase there's an issue discovered later, right?? 
 
So i took a video of them confirming:

https://reddit.com/link/1famwuv/video/2hf7fw59h8nd1/player

 
 
The manager ordered "rollback and mark as deliver, bro"

Finally, I paid 13179 to one of the delivery person, but my pessimistic soul wasn't satisfied. 
 
What if I took the product, and went home, only to realize they didn't mark the order as delivered, so I waited till 10 pm, and made sure they marked it delivered

The next day, I checked for the refund message, but none was received. I called customer support, and registered a case. Was asked to wait for 72 hours. 
 
I waited, no response. 
I called again, they told me they were creating a new case and I needed to wait for another 72 hours. And mind you, this is after I spend about 30 mins or so, repeating my entire story. 
 
After 72 hours, no response, i call again, repeat same story again, same reply again and repeat.

https://preview.redd.it/8jgus10vj8nd1.jpg?width=719&amp;format=pjpg&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=aeb06c0d2657c28d0b7064f1403b91127a6813f8

https://preview.redd.it/vk4ws40vj8nd1.jpg?width=719&amp;format=pjpg&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=49e3f411c445e52654b90534faea8a14be6c43c6

So, this has been going on for the last 20 days, no solution. And now they just drop my call after hearing all the story. 
 
 I'm done. I am literally done, this is mentally very draining to tell your story again and again, that too for 13k??

I am not gonna be satisfied with just the refund of this. I want to sue them through a consumer forum.

These guys think we don't have any rights at all and treat us like we're nobody.

Kindly provide me a low-cost solution for pressing legal charges on Amazon.