This bail application is filed under section 482 of the Bharatiya Nagarik

 Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS'). 2. Petitioner is the sole accused in Crime No.17/2025 of Cyber Crime Police

 Sttion, Thykkadu, Thiruvananthapuram; registered for the offences

 punishable under Sections 75(3) and 79 of the Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita,

 2023 apart from Sections 67 and 67A of the Information Technology Act,

 2000. 3. The prosecution case is that the accused had stalked the de facto

 complainant from January, 2024 onwards, thereafter illegally accessed her

 photographs and uploaded the same on the internet along with sexually

 explicit photographs of other woman, thereby causing great ignominy and

 hardship to the de facto complainant, thus committed the offences alleged. 4. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner as well as the learned Public

 Prosecutor. 5. The learned counsel for the petitioner vehemently submitted that the

 petitioner is the only child of his parents and that he is innocent of the crime.
 BAIL APPL. NO. 5610 OF 2025 3 2025:KER:35267
 It was also submitted that the petitioner is willing to abide by any conditions

 that may be imposed by this Court and that he has already completed his

 Post Graduate studies from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and is

 awaiting suitable employment opportunities. According to the learned

 counsel, if the petitioner is arrested, he will be subjected to immense

 prejudice. 6. The learned Public Prosecutor opposed the bail application and submitted

 that petitioner has committed a serious offence, and custodial interrogation is

 essential. It was submitted that the details of the manner in which petitioner

 accessed the de facto complainant's phone as well as other details regarding

 the nature or manner in which he had uploaded the photographs of women

 on the internet, can be revealed only though custodial interrogation. 7. I have considered the rival contentions. 8. The de facto complainant is stated to have become aware of the circulation

 of the photographs through internet from her sister's friend. Six nude

 photographs are stated to have been uploaded on the internet along with

 other photographs of the de facto complainant. The manner and nature in

 which petitioner accessed the photographs of the de facto complainant and

 uploaded the same on internet can be revealed only through custodial

 interrogation. Taking note of the seriousness of the allegations and the

 impact, it can have, not only on the de facto complainant but also on others, I

 am of the view that this is not a fit case where custodial interrogation can be

 avoided. Hence, I decline to grant pre-arrest bail to the petitioner.
 BAIL APPL. NO. 5610 OF 2025 4 2025:KER:35267
 Accordingly, this application is dismissed however subject to the following

 conditions: (b) If after interrogation, the Investigating Officer arrests the petitioner,

 then, he shall be produced before the jurisdictional court without

 undue delay. (c). If any application for bail is filed, before the jurisdictional Court it

 shall be considered in accordance with law. sd/- BECHU KURIAN THOMAS
 JUDGE

 AMV/22/05/2025