The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on February 28 updated the regulatory sandbox framework based on experience gained over the last four years in running four cohorts and feedback received from fintech entities, banking partners, and other stakeholders, the central bank said.

RBI’s regulatory sandbox allows fintech entities to test new financial products and services in a controlled environment, where the central bank may allow certain regulatory relaxation. The sandbox is expected to allow the different stakeholders to study the benefits and risks of a product or service before releasing it more widely.

The first iteration of the Enabling Framework for Regulatory Sandbox was released in August 2019. The framework was subsequently updated in December 2020 and October 2021. RBI accepts entries for the regulatory sandbox program in cohorts, and currently, the fifth cohort is running.

What’s new: You can read a summary of the first iteration of the framework here . The latest, revised framework includes the following new provisions:

What kind of innovations qualify for the regulatory sandbox: The product or service must be a new or emerging technology or innovatively use existing technology and should address a problem and bring benefits to consumers. It can be in a wide range of areas like payments, money transfer, lending, KYC and identification, financial inclusion, smart contracts, cyber security, mobile apps, APIs, AI applications, etc. For example, an offline retail payment technology by HDFC Bank and Sweden-based Crunchfish recently went live after being tested in the regulatory sandbox. It is an app that allows customers and merchants to make and receive payments from an on-device wallet even when there is no mobile network.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event