The threat that the upcoming general elections will be deep fake elections is palpable. Leveraging deep fakes to spread false narratives about candidates, manipulate voter perceptions, and potentially influence election outcomes presents a chilling prospect. The case of a candidate using deep fakes to release a campaign video in a different language serves as a testament to the potential of this technology – both constructive and destructive. There is also the question of whether the use of deep fakes for satirical purposes constitutes disinformation or not.

To make sense of all of this and the technical aspects of curbing deep fakes, MediaNama conducted a virtual discussion on January 17, 2024. In this discussion, we sought answers to questions like: Are the IT Rules sufficient to curb deep fakes or is there a need for modification or addition to the existing regulations? Is it feasible for platforms to take down deep fakes on a large scale? Does the Election Commission of India have the technical skill and manpower necessary to take down election-related deep fakes? This discussion sought to address how a combination of technological and regulatory approaches could be used to tackle the challenges posed by deep fakes.

We had 276 registrations for this discussion. We saw attendees from The Quantum Hub, Apollo247, COAI, Thompson Reuters, Ikigai Law, Access Now, Truecaller, SLFC, Outlook, Meta, ShareChat, NDTV, EGaming Federation, Chase India, The Caravan, the Hindu and more.

Next up, we will be publishing stories from this discussion on our website , so stay tuned for that. You can sign up for our free daily newsletter to stay updated with our latest stories.

If you’d like to sponsor future discussions at MediaNama, do reach out to us here .

MediaNama hosted this discussion with support from Meta and Google.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event