Heard. 2] This order shall also govern the disposal of W.P. No.6148/2020, as
 in both the petitions, the identical issue of biometric verification of the
 petitioners is involved. 3] For the sake of convenience, the facts as narrated in W.P.
 No.8990/2020 are being taken into consideration.
 4] This petition has been filed by the petitioner under Article 226 of
 the Constitution of India, against the order dated 29.02.2020, passed
 by the respondent Life Insurance Corporation of India, whereby, the
 petitioner has been informed that due to failure of his biometric Signature Not Verified Signed by: BAHAR CHAWLA Signing time: 4/2/2025 6:32:17 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7869

 WP No.8990-2020 & 6148-2020 2 verification conducted by the authority- Tata Consultancy Services
 (hereinafter referred to as 'TCS'), as per the report prepared by them
 and the decision taken by the competent authority, the petitioner
 cannot be appointed on the post of Assistant. 5] The case of the petitioner is that on 17.09.2019, an advertisement
 was issued by the LIC, inviting applications for the appointment on the
 post of Assistant, in which the petitioner also applied, and the results
 were declared on 14.01.2020. In the advertisement, it was also
 provided that the biometric verification shall be conducted by the TCS.
 It is further the case of the petitioner that at the time of examination,
 on 22.12.2019, his biometric verification was also conducted by the
 TCS, and although, at the time of entry, his fingerprints matched with
 the sample earlier provided by the petitioner, however, at the time of
 exit, it could not be matched. However, the petitioner was
 subsequently shortlisted, but at the time of document verification on
 24.01.2020, again the petitioner's thumb impression could not be
 verified, on which date, the petitioner was also required to sign a
 declaration that due to skin issues, the thumb impression could not be
 verified. In the aforesaid declaration, the petitioner had also stated that
 at the time of mains examination on 22.12.2019, his thumb impression
 was verified at the time of entry, but could not be verified while
 exiting the examination hall. 6] Counsel for the petitioner has submitted that it was merely a
 technical issue which led the petitioner to file this petition, and the
 respondents have also not disclosed the report of the TCS, on the basis
 of which they have rejected the petitioner's candidature for the post of
 Assistant, although, its reference is also made in the impugned order
 dated 29.02.2020. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7869

 WP No.8990-2020 & 6148-2020 3 7] A reply to the petition has also been filed, and the respondent's
 preliminary objection is that the petitioner has not made Tata
 Consultancy Services (TCS) as a party respondent, who is a necessary
 party, being the verification agency, as there was a specific stipulation
 of the biometric verification in the advertisement itself. Counsel has
 drawn the attention of this Court to Clause 11 of the advertisement,
 which refers to 'Biometric Data- Capturing and Verification'.
 8] Counsel has submitted that the petitioner participated in the
 examination after being made well aware of the terms and conditions
 on the basis of which examination was to be held. It is submitted that it
 is clearly stipulated in Clause 11 Sub-clause (b) that the decision of
 biometric data verification authority with regard to its status (matched
 or mismatched) shall be final and binding on the candidates. Thus, it is
 submitted that once the petitioner's biometric verification was
 unsuccessful, it was binding on the petitioner, and otherwise also, the
 petitioner was bound to make TCS as a party respondent, as the report
 which is referred to in the impugned order is also lying with the said
 authority only. 9] Counsel has also drawn the attention of this Court to representation
 (Annexure-P/9) made by the petitioner, in which also it is admitted
 that the efforts were also made by the TCS to verify the thumb
 impression. Thus, it is submitted that no case for interference is made
 out. 10] Heard counsel for the parties and perused the record.
 11] From the record it is apparent that it is nobody's case that the
 present petitioner is not the person who had given the entrance
 examination, or that he or she has played fraud in any manner with the
 respondent while giving the examination. It is also a matter of record
 that, at the time of written test, while entering the examination hall, the Signature Not Verified Signed by: BAHAR CHAWLA Signing time: 4/2/2025 6:32:17 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7869

 WP No.8990-2020 & 6148-2020 4 petitioner's biometric verification was successful, however, at the same
 time, while exiting the examination hall, his biometric verification
 could not be done, however, he was still declared successful in the
 written test, and at the time of his document verification on
 24.01.2020, when his thumb impression were also obtained, they could
 not be verified, and on the same date, the petitioner was also required
 to sign a declaration that due to skin issues, the thumb impression
 could not be verified. In the said declaration, it is also mentioned by
 the petitioner that, at the time of his mains examination, at the time of
 his entry in the examination hall, his biometric verification was
 successful, but at the time of exiting the hall, his biometric verification
 could not be done. 12] It is also found that in the impugned order, the respondent
 has also referred to some report issued by the TCS, however, its copy
 has not been made available to the petitioner, and even along with the
 reply, the respondent has not cared to file the same. Thus, it is not
 known as to what prompted the TCS to reject the petitioner's
 candidature, especially when at one point of time his biometric
 verification was successful, i.e., at the time of entering the
 examination hall. 13] It is true that as per Clause 11 of the advertisement, which
 refers to 'Biometric Data- Capturing and Verification', it is provided
 that the decision of TCS shall be final and binding on the candidate,
 but in the considered opinion of this Court, the said condition itself
 cannot be said to be the deciding factor in this petition, as there are
 certain various important aspects of the matter which needs
 consideration of this Court. 14] In the considered opinion of this Court, the following
 questions following issues fall for the consideration of this Court:- 15] So far as the issue of TCS being the necessary party is
 concerned, this Court is of the considered opinion that TCS was
 merely an executing party, and was assigned to carry out the biometric
 verification of the candidates appearing in the examination at the
 instance of LIC. Thus, LIC was the master, whereas TCS was the
 servant, and if any order is communicated by TCS to its master i.e.,
 LIC, it was the duty of the LIC to communicate the same to the
 petitioner, hence, TCS is certainly not a necessary party to the lis,
 because even if it had been made a party, its presence could not have
 made any difference, as at the most, it would have contended that the
 biometric verification of the petitioner was unsuccessful at the time of
 document verification. (ii) The effect of non-furnishing of the report prepared by the
 TCS to the petitioner. 16] So far as the issue regarding effect of non-furnishing of the
 report prepared by TCS and communicated to LIC, to the petitioner is
 concerned, in this regard, it is found that the contention of the
 respondent LIC is that the aforesaid report is lying with TCS only, and
 surprisingly, it has not even been filed along with the reply, which was
 the best opportunity to the LIC to show its bona fide. However, for the
 reasons best known only to the LIC Officers, no efforts have been
 made to obtain the aforesaid order from TCS. It is also surprising to Signature Not Verified Signed by: BAHAR CHAWLA Signing time: 4/2/2025 6:32:17 PM NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7869

 WP No.8990-2020 & 6148-2020 6 note that the LIC did not keep a copy of the report, on the basis of
 which the impugned order has been passed. Thus, non-furnishing of
 the copy of the report to the petitioner which was provided to LIC by
 the TCS, has led to violation of principles of natural justice and has
 prejudicially affected the petitioner's interest. (iii) Whether such condition that the biometric verification of a
 candidate by TCS would be binding on the candidate, is a valid
 condition? 17] So far as the question whether such condition that biometric
 verification shall be binding on a candidate is concerned, this Court is
 of the considered opinion that it is necessary to answer this question
 also, which falls for consideration every now and then, although its
 answer lies in an old saying that the "procedure is the handmaid of
 justice, not its mistress". 18] In this regard, this Court is of the considered opinion that
 although it is true that the biometric verification process is necessary
 nowadays to eliminate any discrepancy in the record, and to ensure
 free and fair process of selection, however, it is also true that biometric
 verification is not always successful in eliminating the discrepancies,
 like in the present case, and there are occasions when biometric
 verification of a candidate cannot be done due to myriads of reasons,
 beyond the control of the parties. 19] In the circumstances, can it be said that only on account of
 failure on the part of a machine, a person's rightful claim can be
 rejected, and the answer is an emphatic 'no', as this Court is of the
 considered opinion that a person's legal and fundamental right cannot
 be curtailed or side-lined only on account of failure of a machine to
 recognize him, for whatever be the reasons. NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025:MPHC-IND:7869

 WP No.8990-2020 & 6148-2020 7 20] This Court is also of the considered opinion that a person's
 identity is not lost when he is not recognized by a machine, and in
 such circumstances, his claim has to be verified on the basis of the
 documents which he possesses regarding his identification, like
 Aadhaar Card, Samagra ID, Pan Card, Driving License, Passport, etc.
 21] In view of the aforesaid discussion, this Court has no
 hesitation to hold that such condition that biometric verification by the
 TCS would be binding on the petitioner, does not stand the test judicial
 scrutiny and of reasonableness, and is liable to be quashed.
 22] In such circumstances, since the petitioner's biometric
 verification was found to be successful at the time of entering the
 examination hall, and taking note of the fact that it is nobody's case
 that any fraud is played by the petitioner, this Court finds it expedient
 to direct the respondent to verify the petitioner's identity on the basis
 of the documents in his possession, and issue the appointment letter to
 the petitioner within further four weeks' time.
 23] Resultantly, the petition stands allowed. The impugned order
 dated 29.02.2020 is hereby quashed and the respondent is directed to
 issue appointment letter to the petitioner within further four weeks
 along with all the consequential benefits except monetary benefits.
 24] With the aforesaid, the petitions stand allowed and disposed
 of. 25] Let a copy of this order be also placed in connected W.P.
 No.6148/2020. (SUBODH ABHYANKAR)
 JUDGE
 Bahar Signature Not Verified Signed by: BAHAR CHAWLA Signing time: 4/2/2025 6:32:17 PM