SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: HELP! my father is wrongly accused of severe FAKE charges by the Shahjahanpur police under the influence of local goons. we have no one to hear our plea.
DATE: 2024-02-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1aqdahd/help_my_father_is_wrongly_accused_of_severe_fake/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am Arsh Bajpai, a 19 year old girl studying in BHU, VARANASI. My father is Chief Manager in Bank of Baroda &amp; posted at Shahjahanpur Regional office. We are native of Kanpur. On 11th feb sunday afternoon, my father and i were driving on the road heading towards city park, as i was taking the turn into city park the city park, a big red car (exiting city park) came at full speed and bumped into my car. Both the cars suffered slight damage. 
In the state of panic i continued to drive. the other car immediately overtook our car, so i stopped my car and parked in front of Dua Motors. my father steps out of the car to talk as i sat inside. around 3-4 men of the other party stepped out and within a second things started heating up. they started abusing and misbehaving, seemingly ready to get physical. one of the the approaches my car to take the keys and as soon as my father sees that he stops the guy &amp; in order to save me , he took away the car from the spot. Later in the afternoon these people started calling my father on his mobile and started threatning to kill him. Again in the night about 10-15 people caught us in the city park, when my father &amp; I was sitting on a bench. They again started to threaten my father and demanded 15000/- for repairing of their car. My father very politely replied that both the cars have suffered equal damage &amp; mistake is from both the parties, so both of us should bear damage for theie own car. But these people were not ready to listen anything &amp; again started abusing &amp; threatning. Very difficultily, We took our father to home &amp; assured of talking in the matter next morning. Later on at 8.30 P.M. my father went to Hathoura chowki &amp; narrated the incident to Mr. Chaman singh Chouki Incharge, who assured to look in to the issue next morning. In the morning my father again went to Hathora chouki &amp; gave a written complaint in the matter to Chauki Incharge, who asked him to submit the complaint to Roza Thana. Again my father went to Roza thana &amp; submitted written complaint in the matter to Mr. Ganga Singh, Inspector at Roza thana. In the evening on the recommendation of some local MLA, police took application from the other party to register complaint against my father under section 307. Today we got information from the local police that an FIR under various sections including 307 has been registered by the local police under the influence of local MLA. Sir, police is trying to mentally torture my father &amp; treating him like a criminal by registering fake charges against him. His only fault is that he refused to pay 15000/- to the opposite party. I request to urgently help my family in the matter as we are in severe mental tension without any fault. Police is working under pressure of these local goons &amp; Local MLA of Shahjahanpur.
Regards
Arsh Bajpai
Mobile-7068218422
mother's no.-8756110150