1. The pe oner incarcerated in the FIR cap oned above has come up before this
Court under Sec on 439 CrPC seeking bail. 2. In paragraph 15 of the bail pe on, the accused declares that he has no criminal
antecedents. 3. Pe oner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent condi ons and is also
voluntarily agreeable to the condi on that ll the conclusion of the trial before the trial
court, the pe oner shall keep only one mobile number, which is men oned in AADHAR
card, and within ﬁGeen days of release from prison undertakes to disconnect all other
mobile numbers. The pe oner contends that the further pre-trial incarcera on would
cause an irreversible injus ce to the pe oner and family. 4. The State opposes bail. 5. Facts of the case are being taken from status report dated 06.03.2024 ﬁled by
concerned DySP which reads as follows:- The statements of 15 pharmacists who did D-Pharmacy Course from the
 Punjab Mul purpose Medical Ins tute were also recorded during enquiry
 and some of them have stated that they had given Rs.1,00,000/- to the
 persons namely Bassi and Sharma at the instance of the management of
 Punjab Mul purpose Medical Ins tute Sehna Barnala which was to be
 paid by said persons to the present pe oner and some Pharmacists have
 stated that they had given bribe money directly to the present pe oner
 Rama Kodiin lieu of providing them 10 + 2 cer ﬁcates in science stream so
 that they can do D-Pharmacy Course and Due to that the present
 pe oner being owner of Punjab Mul purpose Medical Ins tute has been
 nominated as an accused in this case. 5. That the present pe oner Rama Kodi was well aware about the fact
 that the said pharmacists are not eligible for doing D- Pharmacy course,
 but s ll he allowed them to do the course by taking bribe and also
 managed to arrange 10 + 2 cer ﬁcates in science stream for them. During
 inves ga on 65 Pharmacists have been nominated as accused in this case
 aDer the registra on of the FIR and out of which only 09 Pharmacists
 have been arrested and rest of the accused are yet to be arrested. 6. The allega ons against the present pe oner are serious in nature. A
 detailed and thorough inves ga on is being carried out by the
 Inves ga ng Agency in this case as it is a case of big scam. The outcome
 of the oﬀence involved in the FIR has wide ramiﬁca ons. The en re
 modus operandi of the present pe oner and facts within the exclusive
 knowledge of the pe oner are required to be veriﬁed from him during
 his custodial interroga on. As per the statements of Pharmacists the
 pe oner had obtained Rs. 1 lakh from each Pharmacist which clearly
 establishes the fact that the bribe money was obtained by the pe oner
 for geGng issued 10 + 2 cer ﬁcates of science stream for the said
 Pharmacists and to get their registra on with Punjab Pharmacy Council
 on the basis of fake and fabricated 10 + 2 cer ﬁcates and Diploma
 cer ﬁcates. So custodial interroga on of the present pe oneris required
 due to the reasons men oned above, therefore, the present pe on is
 liable to be dismissed." 6. As per paragraph 10 of the bail pe on, the pe oner is in custody since
15.01.2024. Given the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial custody, coupled with
the primafacie analysis of the nature of allega ons, and the other factors peculiar to this
case, there would be no jus ﬁability for further pre-trial incarcera on at this stage,
subject to the compliance of terms and condi ons men oned in this order. 3 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 08-03-2024 02:41:09 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:032176

CRM-M-9142-2024
 2024:PHHC:032176 7. In Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Inves ga on, (2012) 1 SCC 40, Supreme
Court holds,
 [28] We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged
 with economic oﬀences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious
 of the fact that the oﬀences alleged, if proved, may jeopardize the
 economy of the country. At the same me, we cannot lose sight of
 the fact that the inves ga ng agency has already completed
 inves ga on and the charge sheet is already ﬁled before the
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further inves ga on. We are of
 the view that the appellants are en tled to the grant of bail
 pending trial on stringent condi ons in order to ally the
 apprehension expressed by CBI. 8. The possibility of the accused inﬂuencing the inves ga on, tampering with
evidence, in mida ng witnesses, and the likelihood of ﬂeeing jus ce, can be taken care
of by imposing elabora ve and stringent condi ons. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ), 2020:INSC:106 [Para 92], (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Cons tu onal Bench held
that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restric ve
condi ons. 9. Without commen ng on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons men oned above, the pe oner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and condi ons, which shall be over and above and
irrespec ve of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 10. In Madhu Tanwar v. State of Punjab , 2023:PHHC:077618 [Para 10, 21], CRM-M-
27097-2023, decided on 29-05-2023, this court observed,

 [10] The exponen al growth in technology and ar ﬁcial
 intelligence has transformed iden ﬁca on techniques
 remarkably. Voice, gait, and facial recogni on are incredibly
 sophis cated and pervasive. Impersona on, as we know it
 tradi onally, has virtually become impossible. Thus, the remedy
 lies that whenever a judge or an oﬃcer believes that the
 accused might be a ﬂight risk or has a history of ﬂeeing from
 jus ce, then in such cases, appropriate condi ons can be
 inserted that all the expenditure that shall be incurred to trace
 them, shall be recovered from such person, and the State shall
 have a lien over their assets to make good the loss. [21] In this era when the knowledge revolu on has just begun,
 to keep pace with exponen al and unimaginable changes the
 technology has brought to human lives, it is only ﬁPng that the
 dependence of the accused on surety is minimized by giving
 alterna ve op ons. Furthermore, there should be no insistence
 to provide permanent addresses when people either do not
 have permanent abodes or intend to re-locate. 4 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 08-03-2024 02:41:09 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:032176

CRM-M-9142-2024
 2024:PHHC:032176 11. Given above, provided the pe oner is not required in any other case, the
pe oner shall be released on bail in the FIR cap oned above, in the following terms: Ten thousand only (INR 10,000/-), with the clause of automa c renewal
 of the principal and the interest rever ng to the linked account, made in
 favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' of the concerned district, or
 blocking the aforesaid amount in favour of the concerned 'Chief Judicial
 Magistrate'. Said ﬁxed deposit or blocking funds can be from any of the
 banks where the stake of the State is more than 50% or from any of the
 well-established and stable private sector banks. In case the bankers are
 not willing to make a Fixed Deposit in such eventuality it shall be
 permissible for the pe oner to prepare an account payee demand draG
 favouring concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate for the similar amount. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the funds un l the case's closure or
 discharged by subs tu on, or up to the expiry of the period men oned
 under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, and at that stage, subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, the en re amount of ﬁxed deposit, less taxes if any,
 shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). The pe oner is to also execute a bond for aUendance in the
 concerned court(s) as and when asked to do so. The presenta on of the
 personal bond shall be deemed acceptance of the declara ons made in
 the bail pe on and all other s pula ons, terms, and condi ons of
 sec on 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, and of this bail
 order. (e). While furnishing personal bond, the pe oner shall men on the
 following personal iden ﬁca on details: 12. The pe oner shall not inﬂuence, browbeat, pressurize, make any inducement,
threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police oﬃcials, or any
other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of the case, to dissuade
them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to tamper with the
evidence. 13. Pe oner to comply with their undertaking made in the bail pe on, made
before this court through counsel as reﬂected at the beginning of this order. If the
pe oner fails to comply with any of such undertakings, then on this ground alone, the
bail might be canceled, and the vic m/complainant may ﬁle any such applica on for the
cancella on of bail, and the State shall ﬁle the said applica on. 14. The pe oner is directed not to keep more than one prepaid SIM, i.e., one pre-
paid mobile phone number, ll the conclusion of the trial; however, this restric on is
only on prepaid SIMs [mobile numbers] and not on post-paid connec ons or landline
numbers. The pe oner must comply with this condi on within ﬁGeen days of release
from prison. The concerned DySP shall also direct all the telecom service providers to
deac vate all prepaid SIM cards and prepaid mobile numbers issued to the pe oner,
except the one that is men oned as the primary number/ default number linked with
the AADHAAR card and further that ll the no objec on from the concerned SHO, the
mobile service providers shall not issue second pre-paid SIM/ mobile number in the
pe oner's name. Since, as on date, in India, there are only four prominent mobile
service providers, namely BSNL, Airtel, Vodafone-Idea, and Reliance Jio, any other
telecom service provider are directed to comply with the direc ons of the concerned
Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police, issued in this regard and disable all
prepaid mobile phone numbers issued in the name of the pe oner, except the main
number/default number linked with AADHAR, by taking such informa on from the
pe oner's AADHAR details or any other source, for which they shall be legally en tled
by this order. This condi on shall con nue ll the comple on of the trial or closure of
the case, whichever is earlier. In Vernon v. The State of Maharashtra , 2023 INSC 655,
[para 45], while gran ng bail under Unlawful Ac vi es (Preven on) Act, 2002, Supreme
Court had directed imposi on of the similar condi on, which reads as follows, "(d) Both 6 6 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 08-03-2024 02:41:09 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:032176

CRM-M-9142-2024
 2024:PHHC:032176
the appellants shall use only one Mobile Phone each, during the me they remain on
bail and shall inform the Inves ga ng Oﬃcer of the NIA, their respec ve mobile
numbers." 15. During the trial's pendency, if the pe oner repeats or commits any oﬀence where
the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condi on as s pulated
in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for cancella on of
this bail. It shall further be open for any inves ga ng agency to bring it to the no ce of
the Court seized of the subsequent applica on that the accused was earlier cau oned
not to indulge in criminal ac vi es. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall remain in force
throughout the trial and aGer that in Sec on 437-A of the Cr.P.C ., if not canceled due to
non-appearance or breach of condi ons. 16. The condi ons men oned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused tries to reform, does not repeat the oﬀence and to provide a sense of security
to the vic m. In Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2022:INSC:735 [Para 28],
Writ Pe on (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on July 20, 2022, A Three-
Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail condi ons imposed by the
Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they seek to serve but must also
be propor onal to the purpose of imposing them. The courts while imposing bail
condi ons must balance the liberty of the accused and the necessity of a fair trial. While
doing so, condi ons that would result in the depriva on of rights and liber es must be
eschewed." 17. Any Advocate for the pe oner and the Oﬃcer in whose presence the pe oner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all condi ons of this bail order in any
language that the pe oner understands. 18. If the pe oner ﬁnds bail condi on(s) as viola ng fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing diﬃculty due to any situa on, then for modiﬁca on of such term(s),
the pe oner may ﬁle a reasoned applica on before this Court, and aGer taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condi on. 19. Any observa on made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 20. In return for the protec on from incarcera on, the Court believes that the accused
shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 7 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 08-03-2024 02:41:09 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:032176

CRM-M-9142-2024
 2024:PHHC:032176 21. There would be no need for a cer ﬁed copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Pe oner can download this order along with case status from the
oﬃcial web page of this Court and aCest it to be a true copy. In case the aCes ng oﬃcer
wants to verify the authen city, such an oﬃcer can also verify its authen city and may
download and use the downloaded copy for aCes ng bonds. Pe&&on allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applica ons, if any, stand disposed.