: The above information may please be provided based on the following
 grounds. (1) A year back our housing society, instead of repairing our 9 year old
 two buildings terrace leaks during rainy seasons, has decided to
 erect sheds costing Rs. 33.60 lakhs on the terraces of our two
 buildings to solve terrace leaks during rainy seasons.
 (2) In this regard to prevent corrupt activities of looting the innocent
 residents, kindly furnish the following information under the RTI
 Act 2005 (a) Does the CPWD Head Quarters adopted sheds as a permanent
 solutions to terrace leaks during rainy seasons and started
 erecting sheds on its existing building with terrace leaks under the
 CPWD Head Quarters (b) Does the CPWD Head Quarters make a turn around in buildings
 future architecture to adopt sheds as an part of building
 architecture to prevent future leaks during rainy seasons." The CPIO furnished a reply to the Appellant on 13.08.2024 stating as
 under: Being dissatisfied, the appellant filed a First Appeal dated 14.08.2024.
 The FAA vide its letter dated 12.09.2024 stated as under: Decision
 Your meeting was scheduled for September 11, 2024, via the web,
 and the link was sent to your email address. We also attempted to
 reach you several times by phone, but your phone was switched
 off. The Appellate Authority and CPIO logged into the meeting and
 waited for 10 minutes, but you did not join.
 If applicant is not satisfied with disposal of appeal, he may make
 further appeal in information commission with a period of 30 days.
 In view of the above appeal of the applicant is disposed off.
 First Appeal is disposed." Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, appellant approached the
 Commission with the instant Second Appeal. 2. Second Appeal- CIC/DDGDG/A/2024/641119

 Information sought: The CPIO furnished a reply to the Appellant on 13.08.2024 stating as
under: Being dissatisfied, the appellant filed a First Appeal dated 13.08.2024.
The FAA vide its letter dated 12.09.2024 stated as under: Decision
 Your meeting was scheduled for September 10, 2024. We
 attempted to reach you several times by phone, but your phone
 was switched off. The Appellate Authority and CPIO logged into
 the meeting and waited for 10 minutes, but you did not join.
 If applicant is not satisfied with disposal of appeal, he may make
 further appeal in information commission with a period of 30 days.
 In view of the above appeal of the applicant is disposed off." Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, appellant approached the
Commission with the instant Second Appeal. Relevant Facts emerged during Hearing: 3. Proof of having served a copy of Second Appeals on Respondent, while
 filing the same in CIC, is not available on record. 4. The Appellant is not present despite the serving of notice. 5. The respondent is not present despite the serving of notice. Decision: 6. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the
 case, and perusal of the records, notes that the appellant had filed RTI
 application on 05.08.2024 and 08.08.2024 seeking information regarding
 the mechanism adopted by CPWD Headquarters and MOHUA to address
 terrace leakages in buildings/bungalows under its jurisdiction during the
 rainy season. It is observed that information sought is in the form of
 queries and not strictly falling under Section 2(f) of the RTI Act, however,
 CPIO has provided information to the appellant in time. Further the first
 appeal filed by the appellant was disposed of by the First Appellate
 Authority on the ground that the information had already been provided
 by the Respondent CPIO and remained absent during the appellate
 proceedings held on 10.09.2024. As such no further intervention of the
 Commission is warranted on the instant appeal. Notwithstanding the above, the Commission observes that the
 respondent CPIO remained absent during the hearing proceedings
 inspite of notice of hearing duly served upon him. The respondent CPIO
 is directed to explain in writing as to why Penal action should not be
 taken against him for disregarding the Commission's notice of hearing by
 not appearing before the Commission. The written submissions of the
 CPIO shall be sent to the Commission within three (3) weeks of the
 receipt of this order, along with comments of FAA. Nodal Officer, RTI in
 the respondent Public Authority to ensure compliance of the above
 direction. With the above observations and directions, the instant appeal is
 disposed of. Sd/- SANJEEV KUMAR JINDAL (संजीव कुमार िजंदल)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयु )
 date: 12.02.2026
Authenticated true copy
(अिभ मािणत स ािपत ित)

(S K Chitkara)
Dy Registrar
011- 26107051

Addresses of the Parties: