1. The blue jay, a truly beautiful bird, is native to eastern North
 America. Though the appellants before us have sought to contend that
 the blue jay is also known as the Indian Roller and is the State bird of
 Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, this is incorrect. The blue jay
 and the Indian roller belong, in fact, to different avian families, with Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 1 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 the former belonging to the Corvidae and the latter to the Coraciidae
 family. The illusion seems to have originated in the description, by the
 famous naturalist Carl Linnaeus, in 1758, of the Indian Roller as the
 "Jay from Bengal". 2. Enough, however, of ornithology. The blue jay occupies our
 attention, in this appeal, not in its natural avian avatar, but as the
 much more suburban subject matter of a trade mark. And thus we
 descend, from the skies above to the earth below. The lis 3. By a judgment dated 1 July 2025, a learned Single Judge of this
 Court has, in CO (Comm IPD-TM) 279/20231 instituted by the
 respondent under Section 57(2) 2 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, struck
 the registered BLUE-JAY trade mark of the appellants off, from the
 Register of Trade Marks. 4. Aggrieved thereby, the respondents before the learned Single
 Judge are in appeal before us. 5. The statutory scheme

 5.1 Sections 47 and 57 are the only provisions, in the Trade Marks

 1 Major League Baseball Properties Inc v Manish Vijay & Ors.
 2 (2) Any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry, or by any entry
 made in the register without sufficient cause, or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register, or by any
 error or defect in any entry in the register, may apply in the prescribed manner to the High Court or to the
 Registrar, and the Registrar or the High Court, as the case may be, may make such order for making,
 expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 Act, under which a registered trade mark of one person can be
 removed from the Register of Trade Marks at the instance of another. Section 47 allows the mark to be removed on the ground of
 continuous disuse. Section 57(1) allows removal of a registered trade
 mark if any condition, in relation to the mark and entered in the
 Register, is contravened or not observed. 5.2 These provisions do not concern us. We are concerned with Section 57(2) . 5.3 Section 57(2) can be invoked by any person who is aggrieved (i) by the absence from the Register of any entry, or (ii) by any entry made without sufficient cause, or (iii) by any entry which wrongly remains on the Register, or (iv) by any error or defect in any entry in the Register,
 and empowers the Registrar, or the High Court, to make, expunge or
 vary the entry. Circumstances (ii) and (iii), if accepted, would
 naturally result in expunction of the entry, as has happened here. 5.4 The circumstances in which a trade mark can be said to be
 "wrongly remaining" on the Register are not elucidated in Section 57 .
 Nor are they to be found elsewhere in the Trade Marks Act . In the
 circumstances, one has to refer, for the purpose, to Sections 9 and 11 ,
 which set out the grounds on which registration of a trade mark can be
 refused. If a mark ought not to have been registered in the first place,
 as it breached the proscriptions contained in Section 9 or Section 11 ,
 the sequitur is, naturally, that it ought not to remain on the Register
 either. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 5.5 The circumstances in which the Registrar can refuse to register
 a trade mark, as envisaged in Sections 9 and 11 , are many and varied.
 Of these, Section 9 contains "absolute" grounds of refusal, whereas Section 11 contains "relative" grounds of refusal. Section 9 does not
 concern us, as the respondent has not invoked any clause thereof. 5.6 The impugned judgment has removed the appellants' BLUE-
 JAY trade mark from the Register under Section 11(10)(ii) 3 .
 However, the grounds urged by the respondent in its Section 57 petition would also require us to address Section 11(3)(a) 4 . 5.7 In order to avoid any confusion, we may observe, here, that
 though the main grievance of the respondent, against the appellants'
 BLUE-JAY trade mark, was its similarity to the respondent's BLUE
 JAYS trade mark, neither Section 11(1) 5 nor Section 11(2) 6 would
 apply in the present case, in view of the definition of "earlier trade

 3 (10) While considering an application for registration of a trade mark and opposition filed in respect
 thereof, the Registrar shall-- ***** (ii) take into consideration the bad faith involved either of the applicant or the opponent
 affecting the right relating to the trade mark.
 4 (3) A trade mark shall not be registered if, or to the extent that, its use in India is liable to be
 prevented-- (a) by virtue of any law in particular the law of passing off protecting an unregistered trade
 mark used in the course of trade; 5 11. Relative grounds for refusal of registration. - (1) Save as provided in Section 12 , a trade mark shall not be registered if, because of-- (a) its identity with an earlier trade mark and similarity of goods or services
 covered by the trade mark; or (b) its similarity to an earlier trade mark and the identity or similarity of the goods
 or services covered by the trade mark,
 there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public, which includes the likelihood of
 association with the earlier trade mark. 6 (2) A trade mark which-- (a) is identical with or similar to an earlier trade mark; and (b) is to be registered for goods or services which are not similar to those for which the
 earlier trade mark is registered in the name of a different proprietor,
 shall not be registered if or to the extent the earlier trade mark is a well-known trade mark in India and the use
 of the later mark without due cause would take unfair advantage of or be detrimental to the distinctive
 character or repute of the earlier trade mark. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 mark" provided in the Explanation following Section 11(4) 7 , which
 covers only marks which are registered, or in respect of which an
 application for registration is pending. Neither on 19 August 1998,
 when the appellants applied for registration of the BLUE-JAY mark,
 nor even at any later point of time till the date of institution of CO
 (Comm IPD-TM) 279/2023, was the respondent the proprietor of any
 registered trade mark, nor was any application for registration of any
 trade mark, filed by it, pending. We refer, of course, to India. 5.8 Of the various circumstances outlined in para 5.3 supra, CO
 (Comm IPD-TM) 279/2023 was instituted by the respondent invoking
 circumstance (iii). The respondent's contention, which the learned
 Single Judge has accepted, is that the appellants' BLUE-JAY mark
 ought not to be permitted to remain on the Register. This contention
 has found favour with the learned Single Judge, to the chagrin of the
 appellants. 5.9 Ergo, the present appeal. Facts 6. Proceedings before the learned Single Judge

 6.1 Case of the respondent, as petitioner in CO (Comm IPD-TM)

 7 Explanation.- For the purposes of this section, earlier trade mark means-- (a) a registered trade mark or an application under Section 18 bearing an earlier date of filing
 or an international registration referred to in Section 36-E or convention application referred to in Section 154 which has a date of application earlier than that of the trade mark in question, taking
 account, where appropriate, of the priorities claimed in respect of the trade marks; (b) a trade mark which, on the date of the application for registration of the trade mark in
 question, or where appropriate, of the priority claimed in respect of the application, was entitled to Signature Not Verified protection as a well-known trade mark. LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 5 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 279/2023 6.1.1 The factual averments in CO (Comm IPD-TM) 279/2023,
 insofar as they are relevant for the purposes of the present appeal, may
 be set out thus: 30 teams comprise MLB, representing 29 cities in the US and
 one in Canada. (ii) Of the 30 teams comprising the MLB, the only team
 situated outside the USA, which is in Canada, is the Toronto
 Blue Jays9. The respondent is the proprietor of the BLUE JAYS
 and TORONTO BLUE JAYS word and device marks,

 employed by the BLUE JAYS club. These include the ,

 8 "MLB" hereinafter
 9 "TBJ", hereinafter Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 6 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 , , , ,

 and marks10. The BLUE JAYS marks were adopted
 by the respondent in 1976, when the TBJ Club was established
 as an MLB team. BLUE JAYS was chosen and adopted as the
 name for the TBJ club. (iii) As a result of extensive use and promotional activities,
 the BLUE JAYS marks have become distinctive and have
 achieved worldwide fame. They operate as source identifiers of
 the TBJ club and the vast array of goods and services used to
 promote the club. The TBJ club has, over a period of time,
 become one of the most famous and recognisable teams in
 professional baseball. The documents filed to substantiate this
 claim of widespread popularity and use of the BLUE JAYS
 marks are (i) an article dated 7 February 2006, titled "Toronto
 Blue Jays" from the Canadian Encyclopedia, (ii) a valuation list in the Forbes magazine of the TBJ
 MLB team, (iii) an article regarding the first official MLB game
 played by TBJ on 7 April 1977, on a website titled
 "FireShot Capture 077", (iv) details regarding the attendance, stadiums and park

 10 "the BLUE JAYS marks" hereinafter Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 7 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 factors of TBJ in the magazine "baseball reference", a
 tabular statement setting out the franchise attendance,
 stadia and other details of TBJ, (v) certain Instagram pages and photographs from the
 TBJ Instagram page, (vi) an article in the magazine offside dated 17
 September 2021 regarding celebrities who are fans of
 TBJ, and (vii) an article dated 8 November 2023 in the Indian
 Express titled "Punjabi Singing Sensation AP Dhillon
 throws official ceremonial first pitch for baseball team
 Toronto Blue Jays". (iv) Ever since 7 April 1977, when the TBJ club played its
 first regular session MLB game, one or more of the BLUE
 JAYS marks have appeared on the TBJ clubs' uniforms. Over
 the years, the BLUE JAYS marks have also been used on a
 wide variety of goods and in relation to a wide variety of
 services including baseball games, exhibition services and
 education services. The marks have become well known
 throughout the world, and have also received extensive
 worldwide acclaim. Various documents, in the form of articles
 in foreign magazines, were placed on record in this regard. (v) Consumers around the world, including India, have been
 exposed to a wide range of goods and services designated by
 the BLUE JAYS mark through the official MLB website
 (https://www.mlb.com). Through this website, fans of baseball Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 8 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 in India and all over the world could subscribe to live game day
 broadcasts. (vi) The official MLB website, and several other websites
 which covered MLB news and events, as well as sell MLB
 products, featuring the BLUE JAYS marks, have been seen by
 internet users throughout the world, including India. News and
 entertainment services provided on these websites, as well as
 goods available for sales thereon, have been offered to Indian
 consumers and worldwide through internet enabled computers,
 mobile phones etc. at least since 1998. (vii) Games played as part of the MLB, including games in
 which the TBJ club was a participant, have been broadcasted
 and televised to persons across the world, including India, for
 several decades. MLB games, featuring the BLUE JAYS marks,
 have been broadcasted in India via Fox Sports India, Facebook,
 ESPN, Star Sports and other channels. These broadcasts have
 considerably enhanced consumer awareness of MLB
 professional baseball, as well as the BLUE JAYS marks. News
 coverage of MLB games, including games played by the TBJ
 club, was also widespread. Several international publications
 contained news items about MLB professional baseball,
 accompanied by photographs of the TBJ players wearing
 uniforms bearing the BLUE JAYS marks. Many of these
 publications were available online to internet users in India and
 throughout the world. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (viii) The social media accounts of the TBJ club and of MLB
 and its matches in general also contributed to their worldwide
 recognition. The TBJ club is recognised across the globe by the
 general public and fans alike. The BLUE JAYS marks are
 exclusively identified with the TBJ club. Consumers world
 over, who came across the BLUE-JAY mark would be
 compelled to infer an association with the TBJ club. (ix) The following material indicated that the reputation of
 the BLUE JAYS marks has penetrated into India: field personnel. (iii) MLB games, including those featuring the BLUE
 JAYS marks, are widely covered in news reports by
 publication in media outlets across the world, including
 India. (iv) Details relating to the TBJ Club and the MLB
 games featuring the BLUE JAYS marks are also
 available by way of online articles, accessible in India
 and throughout the world. Highlights and scores of MLB
 games including those featuring the TBJ club are
 reported daily in virtually every newspaper in the US and
 worldwide, which are accessible even in India. The
 respondent's websites are accessible throughout the
 world, including India. They actively promote the TBJ
 Club and display the BLUE JAYS marks at least since far
 back as in 1996. (v) In July 2019, the respondent announced the
 opening of an office in India to promote the game of
 baseball in India. This announcement was well covered in
 the media, both online and offline. (vi) The official licensed products and merchandise of Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 11 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 the respondent including those bearing the BLUE JAYS
 mark continue to be sold on the respondent's websites
 since several years. They have been purchased by
 consumers across the world, including India. These
 products have also been available for sale through
 unauthorised sellers or various e-commerce websites. (vii) The respondent's BLUE JAYS marks have
 enhanced goodwill and reputation amongst Indian
 consumers as compared to the rest of MLB clubs, owing
 to the significant presence of the Indian diaspora in
 Canada, as the TBJ Club is the only MLB club based out
 of Canada. (x) The status of registrations held by the respondent under Section 23 of the Trade Marks Act, as on the date of filing the
 petition, were as under: entertainment services; BLUE JAYS mark, in Class 25, was deemed to have been
 abandoned on account of non-renewal, the application, by the
 respondent, for registration of the mark, indicated that the
 respondent had adopted the BLUE JAYS marks in India prior to
 the appellants. The respondent continues to use its BLUE JAYS
 marks till date without interruption across the world, including
 India. (xii) Owing to priority in adoption, long, continuous and
 uninterrupted user and worldwide publicity, the respondent's
 BLUE JAYS marks are familiar to a large number of consumers
 and members of the trade in India. There is considerable
 spillover of the global reputation of the said marks into India.
 The BLUE JAYS marks, therefore, enjoy trans-border Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 15 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 reputation in India. (xiii) The respondent's BLUE JAYS mark also, therefore,
 qualifies as a "well known trade mark" within the meaning of Section 2(1)(zg) 11 read with Section 11(6) 12 of the Trade Marks
 Act. (xiv) The word mark BLUE-JAY stood registered in favour of
 the appellants, in Class 25, for "shirts, pants, trousers, jeans,
 jackets and readymade garments", vide Registration No.
 815236, with effect from 19 August 1998. (xv) Notice of Opposition No. DEL-161698 was filed by the
 respondent opposing the grant of registration to the world mark
 BLUE-JAY in favour of the appellants in Class 25, on 3
 February 2004. The counter statement to the said notice of
 opposition was filed by the appellants on 9 November 2004. In
 its counter statement, the appellants contended that, unlike the

 11 (zg) "well-known trade mark", in relation to any goods or services, means a mark which has become so
 to the substantial segment of the public which uses such goods or receives such services that the use of such
 mark in relation to other goods or services would be likely to be taken as indicating a connection in the course
 of trade or rendering of services between those goods or services and a person during the mark in relation to
 the first-mentioned goods or services. 12 (6) The Registrar shall, while determining whether a trade mark is a well-known trade mark, take into
 account any fact which he considers relevant for determining a trade mark as a well-known trade mark
 including-- (i) the knowledge or recognition of that trade mark in the relevant section of the public
 including knowledge in India obtained as a result of promotion of the trade mark; (ii) the duration, extent and geographical area of any use of that trade mark; (iii) the duration, extent and geographical area of any promotion of the trade mark, including
 advertising or publicity and presentation, at fairs or exhibition of the goods or services to which the
 trade mark applies; (iv) the duration and geographical area of any registration of or any application for
 registration of that trade mark under this Act to the extent they reflect the use or recognition of the
 trade mark; (v) the record of successful enforcement of the rights in that trade mark, in particular, the
 extent to which the trade mark has been recognised as a well-known trade mark by any court or
 Registrar under that record. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 respondent who used the BLUE JAYS marks for sport goods,
 the appellant was using the BLUE-JAY mark for readymade
 garments, which were distinct and different. Moreover, it was
 contended that the blue jay was a bird, native to North America
 and that, therefore, the mark BLUE JAYS lacked
 distinctiveness and was incapable of distinguishing any goods
 and was not, therefore, registrable in view of Section 9(1)(a) 13 of the Trade Marks Act. (xvi) As evidence in support of the notice of opposition could
 not be filed by the respondent on or before 12 August 2005
 when the time to do so expired, the appellants' application
 proceeded to registration on 8 June 2017. 6.1.2 In this factual backdrop, the respondent sought removal of the
 appellants' BLUE-JAY mark from the Register on the following
 grounds: *****
 shall not be registered: culture references in Hollywood movies and TV shows,
 prior to August 1998, and (d) the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark was regularly
 cited in various articles published in periodicals with
 global circulation, and sizeable Indian readership. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (vi) The appellants ought, therefore, to have been aware of
 the reputation and goodwill of the respondent's BLUE JAYS
 mark. This was also apparent from the near identity of the two
 marks. (vii) The application of the appellants for registration of the
 BLUE-JAY mark was, therefore, tainted with bad faith. The
 mark ought not to have been registered in view of Section
 11(10)(ii) of the Trade Marks Act. (viii) As the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark was an earlier
 mark, the appellants' BLUE-JAY mark ought not to have been
 registered. (ix) Concurrent existence of the two marks was likely to
 result in confusion in the minds of the public, as the marks were
 nearly identical, and were used for the same goods. (x) The adoption of the BLUE-JAY mark by the appellants
 was, therefore, with an intention of passing off their goods as
 those of the respondent. (xi) Priority of user trumped registration. (xii) As the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark was well known,
 the appellants' mark ought not to have been registered in view
 of Section 11(10)(i) of the Trade Marks Act. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (xiii) The appellants were not the bona fide proprietor of the
 BLUE-JAY mark. They could not, therefore, have sought
 registration of the mark, under Section 18(1) 14 . 6.1.3 To support its claim of trans-border reputation of the BLUE
 JAYS mark having percolated into India, the respondent filed, with
 the petition, (i) various news articles, as Documents 6, 7, 10 and 25, (ii) screen shots evidencing online sale of merchandise
 carrying the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark, as Document 13,
 as well as websites evidencing their availability for sale in
 India, as Document 16, (iii) printouts of the web pages of the MLB franchise, inter
 alia featuring the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark, as
 Documents 14 and 15, (iv) screenshots from broadcasts of MLB games featuring the
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark, as Document 17, (v) documents relating to the "Million Dollar Arm" contest
 conducted by the MLB, in which two Indians made their debut,
 which was also covered in a Disney motion picture titled
 "Million Dollar Arm", as Document 22, (vi) documents evidencing that Fox Sports Asia, VEQTA and
 Facebook were the international broadcasters for MLB Baseball
 games in India, as Document 23, and

 14 18. Application for registration. - (1) Any person claiming to be the proprietor of a trade mark used or proposed to be used by
 him, who is desirous of registering it, shall apply in writing to the Registrar in the prescribed Signature Not Verified manner for the registration of his trade mark. LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 20 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (vii) online articles in well-known Indian periodicals and
 newspapers covering the opening of the respondent's office in
 India in July 2019, as Document 28. 6.2 Stand of the appellants, as the respondents in CO (Comm IPD-
 TM) 279/2023

 In response, the appellants, as the respondents before the learned
 Single Judge, contended thus: There was no evidence of use of the mark in India. (ii) There was no evidence of any trans-border reputation of
 the BLUE JAYS mark in India, or spillover, into India, of the
 reputation of the mark overseas. The respondent had placed
 only one invoice on record, in the form of Document 16, of
 someone ordering their product in Delhi. (iii) Presence of the respondents on social media platforms is
 no evidence of goodwill or reputation, in the absence of actual
 use of the respondent's mark. (iv) The respondent had not placed, on record, any evidence
 which was specific to India. (v) The respondent has no offices, stores or operations in
 India. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (vi) In the absence of any evidence of use, promotion or
 recognition of the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark in India, the
 mark could not qualify as a well-known trade mark within the
 meaning of Section 2(1)(zg) or 11(6) of the Trade Marks Act . (vii) Baseball is not a popular sport in India. (viii) The respondent had not renewed its applications for
 registration of the trademark BLUE JAYS. Moreover, the
 applications were filed on "proposed to be used" basis. The
 respondent did not have any valid registration under Class 25. (ix) As against this, the appellants were the holders of a valid
 registration for the mark BLUE-JAY in Class 25 since 1998.
 Moreover, the registration was specific to ready-made
 garments, which were unrelated to the respondent's activities. The appellants prayed, therefore, that the Section 57 petition be
 dismissed. The Impugned Judgment 7. In the impugned judgment, the learned Single Judge has
 proceeded to analyse the issues involved, and return his findings
 thereon, as under: Therefore, the fact that the Respondents had first applied for
 registration of the mark BLUE JAYS, albeit on proposed to be
 used basis in Class 25, only to give it up, and that the appellants
 had subsequently applied for registering the mark BLUE-JAY
 in Class 25, had to be considered. (ii) The appellants had provided contradictory reasons for
 adopting the mark BLUE-JAY. In their counter-statement filed
 before the Trade Marks Registry, it was stated that the mark
 BLUE-JAY had been adopted from the name of a common bird
 of North America. As against this, in their reply to the Section
 57 petition of the respondent, before the learned Single Judge,
 the appellants contended that their father, who was an employee
 of the Punjab National Bank, Sonipat, used to visit the Blue Jay
 Tourist Resort in Panipat for having meals and that he had
 suggested the use of the name BLUE-JAY, which was also the
 name of a famous bird of North America. Thus, the appellants
 had, before the learned Single Judge, concocted an entirely new
 explanation for adopting the mark BLUE-JAY. This
 contradiction raised a credible doubt in the mind of the Court as
 to the reliability of the adoption of the mark BLUE-JAY by the
 appellants. It reflected the appellants' mala fides and dishonest
 intention to appropriate and ride on the worldwide reputation
 and goodwill of the respondents BLUE JAYS mark. The
 adoption was, therefore, "shrouded under a dark cloud of Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 23 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 suspicion". No other valid reason or justification, for adopting
 the BLUE-JAY mark, had been provided by the appellants. (iii) The rival marks were nearly identical. (iv) The appellants did not seek to contend that, when they
 adopted the mark BLUE-JAY, they were unaware of the
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark. In view of the fact that the
 respondent had applied for registration of the BLUE JAYS
 mark much before the appellants, it was highly unlikely that the
 appellants were unaware of the respondent's mark at the time
 when they applied for registration of their BLUE-JAY mark. (v) On the aspect of trans-border reputation of the
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark, the learned Single Judge has
 held, in para 26 of the impugned judgment, thus: KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (vi) The rights of a prior user were superior to the right of a
 subsequent user, even if the subsequent user was the proprietor
 of a registered trade mark. Reliance has been placed, to sustain
 this finding, on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Neon
 Laboratories Ltd v. Medical Technologies Ltd15 . (vii) Further, the determinative test for establishing prior user
 was identifying who was the first to adopt and use the mark in
 the world market, as held by the decisions in Innovolt Inc. v.
 Kevin Power Solutions Ltd16 and Icrave LLC v. Icrave Design
 Pvt Ltd17 , both rendered by learned Single Judges of this Court.
 Admittedly, the appellants had adopted the mark BLUE-JAY
 only in 1998, 22 years after adoption of the mark BLUE JAYS
 by the respondent. (viii) Following these observations, the learned Single Judge
 has, in para 31 of the impugned judgment, observed and held as
 under: Apropos the contours of the expression "bad faith", as
 contained in Section 11(10)(ii) , the learned Single Judge has
 relied on the judgement of one of us (C. Hari Shankar J),
 sitting singly, in BPI Sports LLC v. Saurabh Gulati18 . 8. Following the above findings, the impugned judgment
 concludes thus: Accordingly, the Registrar of Trade Marks is directed to cancel and
 remove the registration of the impugned mark 'BLUE-JAY'
 registered vide application no.815236 in Class 25 from the
 Register of Trade Marks." Rival Submissions before us 9. Submissions of Mr. Chander M. Lall, learned Senior Counsel
 for the appellants

 9.1 Mr. Lall submits that the appellants' registration of the BLUE-
 JAY trade mark dates back to 19 August 1988 and that the appellants
 have placed on record sale agreements, invoices and advertisements
 evidencing use of the mark by them with effect from 2002, which is
 much prior to the alleged rights being claimed by the respondent in the
 BLUE JAYS marks in India. It is also pointed out that the appellants'
 BLUE-JAY mark proceeded to registration only after the respondent
 had abandoned its objection against the application filed by the
 appellants for registration of the mark. It is also pointed out that, till
 date, the respondent has not filed any suit alleging infringement or
 passing off against the appellants, or sought any injunction against the
 use by the appellants, restraining use, by them, of the BLUE-JAY Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 27 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 mark. 9.2 Mr. Lall further submits that there is no evidence worth the
 name, placed by the respondent on record, to indicate that the BLUE
 JAYS mark of the respondent enjoyed any trans-border reputation in
 India. There is no document or evidence indicating any presence, in
 India, of the BLUE JAYS mark of the respondent, prior to adoption
 and use of the BLUE-JAY mark by the appellants. The trade mark
 applications for registration of the BLUE JAYS mark, filed by the
 respondent in 1983 and 1988 were on "proposed to be used" basis,
 and were abandoned by the respondent itself in 1990 and 1995. 9.3 Mr. Lall further re-emphasises that there is no evidence of use
 by the respondent of the BLUE JAYS mark for Class 25 goods in
 India. Jerseys and merchandise of the respondent, or of the TBJ Club,
 may be sold in baseball playing countries. Baseball, however, is not a
 popular sport in India and there are no stores selling TBJ merchandise
 in India. 9.4 In fact, submits, Mr. Lall, that there is no evidence of the
 respondent having dealt in readymade garments using any mark at any
 point, anywhere in the world. 9.5 Mr. Lall once again submits that the respondent has not shown
 the existence of any goodwill or reputation of the BLUE JAYS mark
 in India. In the absence of any such goodwill or reputation, there was
 obviously no reason for the appellants to piggyback on the reputation
 of the respondent, or to adopt a mark which was similar to the BLUE Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 28 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 JAYS mark of the respondent which, at the end of the day, is merely a
 mark used by a Canadian Baseball Team. 9.6 In this context, it is also pointed out that, of the 30 teams
 forming the MLB, the only team outside the US is TBJ, located in
 Canada. 9.7 Mr. Lall submits that, in order to succeed in a claim of passing
 off, the respondent would have to succeed in demonstrating goodwill
 and reputation of the BLUE JAYS mark in India prior to August 1998.
 There is no evidence of any such goodwill or reputation prior to
 August 1998 or even till today. Mr. Lall points out that the only
 surviving class 25 application of the respondent is for the device mark

 . 9.8 Mr. Lall has also sought to debunk, document by document, the
 claim of the respondent that it enjoyed trans-border reputation of the
 BLUE JAYS mark in India. We would advert to these submissions in
 our findings which follow hereinafter. 9.9 Mr. Lall submits finally that the learned Single Judge has
 proceeded entirely on the basis of bad faith adoption, by invoking Section 11(10)(ii) of the Trade Marks Act. He submits that the
 material cited by the learned Single Judge does not in any way make
 out a case of bad faith adoption, by the appellants, of the BLUE-JAY
 mark. In the absence of any trans-border goodwill or reputation of the Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 29 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark in India, he submits that there was no
 reason why the appellants would surreptitiously seek to adopt a
 similar mark. Moreover, he submits that the respondent itself having
 abandoned its applications for registration of the BLUE JAYS mark in
 India even prior to the adoption of the BLUE JAY mark by the
 appellants, the said adoption of the BLUE-JAY mark by the appellants
 could not be said to be tainted with bad faith. 10. Submissions of Mr. Urfee Roomi for the respondent

 Mr. Urfee Roomi, responding to Mr. Lall's submissions, adopts the
 reasoning contained in the impugned judgment of the learned Single
 Judge. He seeks to point out that the learned Single Judge has, for
 cogent and convincing reasons, found the adoption of the BLUE-JAY
 mark by the appellants to be tainted with bad faith, and that no
 occasion arises for this Court to interfere with the said findings in
 appeal. He further submits that there was clear and convincing
 evidence to indicate the existence of trans-border goodwill and
 reputation of the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark in India. The
 finding of the learned Single Judge that the appellants were aware of
 the said mark while adopting the BLUE-JAY mark in 1998, he
 submits, is unexceptionable, and, even on this sole ground, the
 decision of the learned Single Judge to remove the BLUE-JAY mark
 of the appellants from the register of Trade Marks deserves to be
 upheld. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 Analysis 11. Provisions which are required to be considered

 11.1 The respondent sought to contend, both before the learned
 Single Judge as well as before us, that its BLUE JAYS mark was an
 "earlier trade mark" for the purposes of Section 11(1) and 11(2) of the
 Trade Marks Act and that, as the appellants' BLUE-JAY mark was
 deceptively similar thereto, and used for identical goods, the mark
 should not have proceeded to registration. 11.2 We are unable to agree. 11.3 The proscription against registration of a mark, which is
 identical with or similar to an earlier trade mark, as contained in Sections 11(1) and 11(2) of the Trade Marks Act, applies at the stage
 of registration. It has, therefore, to be seen, whether, on the date when
 the appellants' mark was registered, the respondent's BLUE JAYS
 mark was as an "earlier trade mark". 11.4 The expression "earlier trade mark", for the purposes of Sections 11(1) and 11(2) stands defined in the Explanation below Section 11(4) . A mark would qualify as an "earlier trade mark" plainly
 said, if (i) it was a prior registered trade mark, or (ii) an application for
 registration of the trade mark was pending before the Registrar, or (iii)
 it was a well known trade mark on the date of application for
 registration of the latter mark. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 11.5 Quite clearly, the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark does not fall
 in any of these categories. 11.6 The applications for registration of the BLUE JAYS mark, filed
 in 1983 and 1988, already stood abandoned in 1990 and 1995, prior to
 the application by the appellants for registration of the BLUE-JAY
 mark in 1998. There was, therefore, no prior registration of the
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark on that date. Nor was any application
 for registration of the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark pending before
 the Registrar in August 1998. 11.7 It could not also be said that by 1998, the respondent's BLUE
 JAYS mark, had achieved the status of a well known mark in India.
 As we would hold hereinafter, there is no evidence to indicate that,
 even as on the date of the filing of the Section 57 petition before this
 Court, the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark qualified as a well known
 mark. There is no evidence of use of the said mark in India, or of
 percolation, into India, of the trans-border reputation of the said mark
 even as on the date of filing of the Section 57 petition, much less as
 far back as in 1998. It could not, therefore, be said that on 19 August
 1998, the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark was a "well known trade
 mark". 11.8 In as much as, therefore, (i) the respondent's BLUE-JAYS mark was not a registered
 trade mark, (ii) there was no application for registration of the
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark pending either on the date of Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 32 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 application, by Appellant 1, for registration of the BLUE-JAY
 mark, or even till the filing of the Section 57 petition by the
 respondents before this Court, and (iii) the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark cannot be treated as
 a well known trade mark on 19 August 1998, when Appellant 1
 had applied for registration of the BLUE-JAY mark, or even on
 8 June 2017, when the appellant's BLUE-JAY mark proceeded
 to registration,
 the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark does not qualify as an "earlier
 trade mark" for the purposes of Sections 11(1) or 11(2) of the Trade
 Marks Act . 11.9 We, therefore, have to examine the present controversy only
 apropos Section 11(3)(a) and 11(10)(ii) of the Trade Marks Act. 12. Re. Section 11(3)(a) 12 .1 The learned Single Judge has cancelled the registration of the
 appellant's BLUE-JAY mark on the ground that it was adopted in bad
 faith. He has, thereby, invoked Section 11(10)(ii) of the Trade Marks
 Act. Nonetheless, as the impugned judgement also returns findings of
 goodwill and reputation in favour of the respondent's BLUE JAYS
 mark, and even holds that the respondent had led sufficient evidence
 to establish "use" of the BLUE JAYS mark in India, we are also
 examining whether the registration appellant's BLUE-JAY trade mark
 could be cancelled by invoking Section 11(3)(a) . 12.2 Section 11(3)(a) proscribes registration of a trade mark if its use Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 33 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 is liable to be prevented by any law, in particular the law of passing
 off. 12.3 The law of passing off, as applicable to trade marks, prohibits
 goods of one person from being passed off as goods of another, by
 adopting a deceptively similar trade mark. It is classically a tort of
 deceit, in which the tortfeasor seeks to ride on the goodwill and
 reputation of another, by confusing consumers into believing his
 goods to be the other's though proof of mala fides on the part of the
 tortfeasor is not indispensable for a passing off action to succeed. The
 existence of goodwill, in the mark which has been imitated is,
 therefore, the sine qua non of any passing off action. Apart from
 goodwill, the two other requisites, for any passing off action to
 succeed, are misrepresentation, by the tortfeasor, and resulting damage
 to the other. 12.4 In its comparatively recent decision in Brihan Karan Sugar
 Syndicate (P) Ltd v. Yashwantrao Mohite Krushna Sahakari Sakhar
 Karkhana19 , the Supreme Court has approvingly cited the following
 passages from Satyam Infoway Ltd v. Siffynet Solutions (P) Ltd20 ,
 which identify the ingredients of passing off as a tort: "13. The next question is, would the principles of trade mark
 law and in particular those relating to passing off apply? An action
 for passing off, as the phrase "passing off" itself suggests, is to
 restrain the defendant from passing off its goods or services to the
 public as that of the plaintiff's. It is an action not only to preserve
 the reputation of the plaintiff but also to safeguard the public. The
 defendant must have sold its goods or offered its services in a
 manner which has deceived or would be likely to deceive the

 19 (2024) 2 SCC 577
 20 (2004) 6 SCC 145 Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 34 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 public into thinking that the defendant's goods or services are the
 plaintiff's. The action is normally available to the owner of a
 distinctive trade mark and the person who, if the word or name is
 an invented one, invents and uses it. If two trade rivals claim to
 have individually invented the same mark, then the trader who is
 able to establish prior user will succeed. The question is, as has
 been aptly put, who gets these first? It is not essential for the
 plaintiff to prove long user to establish reputation in a passing off
 action. It would depend upon the volume of sales and extent of
 advertisement. 14. The second element that must be established by a plaintiff
 in a passing off action is misrepresentation by the defendant to the
 public. The word "misrepresentation" does not mean that the
 plaintiff has to prove any mala fide intention on the part of the
 defendant. Of course, if the misrepresentation is intentional, it
 might lead to an inference that the reputation of the plaintiff is such
 that it is worth the defendant's while to cash in on it. An innocent
 misrepresentation would be relevant only on the question of the
 ultimate relief which would be granted to the plaintiff [Cadbury-
 Schweppes (Pty) Ltd. v. PUB Squash Co. (Pty) Ltd.21; Erven
 Warnink Besloten Vennootschap v. J. Townend & Sons (Hull)
 Ltd.22] . What has to be established is the likelihood of confusion
 in the minds of the public (the word "public" being understood to
 mean actual or potential customers or users) that the goods or
 services offered by the defendant are the goods or the services of
 the plaintiff. In assessing the likelihood of such confusion the
 courts must allow for the "imperfect recollection of a person of
 ordinary memory" [ Aristoc Ltd. v. Rysta Ltd.23 ]. 15. The third element of a passing off action is loss or the
 likelihood of it." 12.5 Before, however, adverting to either of these provisions, we are
 required first to address the findings of the learned Single Judge that
 there was evidence of use by the respondent of the BLUE JAYS mark
 in India and that the mark enjoyed goodwill and reputation. 12.6 Both these findings are essentially contained in para 26 of the

 21 (1981) 1 WLR 193
 22 (1979) 3 WLR 68 (HL)
 23 1945 AC 68 (HL) Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 35 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 impugned judgment. 12.7 Re. use of the mark BLUE JAYS by the respondent. 12.7.1 In the concluding sentence in paragraph 26 of the impugned
 judgment, the learned Single Judge has held that there was sufficient
 evidence of established use, by the respondent, of the BLUE JAYS
 mark in India. From a reading of paragraph 26, however, the basis of
 this finding is not immediately apparent. In fact, the observations in
 paragraph 26 of the impugned judgment, which precede the finding of
 established use, appear more to relate to the aspect of trans-border
 goodwill and reputation, rather than "use". It appears to us, in fact,
 that the impugned judgment has conflated the aspects of "use" and
 trans-border goodwill and reputation. 12.7.2 "Use" of a trademark has a definite connotation in the Trade
 Marks Act . Section 2(2)(b) and (c) of the Trade Marks Act cover,
 within the meaning of the expression "use" of a mark, (i) use of
 printed or other visual representations of the mark, (ii) use of the mark
 upon, or in any physical or in any other relation whatsoever, to goods,
 or (iii) use of the mark as part of any statement about the availability,
 provision or performance or services. 12.7.3 There is no evidence of the respondent's having used the BLUE
 JAYS mark, in India, in any of the modes envisaged in the Trade
 Marks Act . The mere fact that the BLUE JAYS mark figured on
 websites which are accessible in India, or figured on merchandise
 which could be purchased in India, cannot amount to use of the mark, Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 36 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 by the respondent, within India. At least, prior to 1998, there is little
 or no evidence of such use. 12.8 Re: trans-border goodwill and reputation

 12.8.1 The learned Single Judge has, in paragraph 26 of the impugned
 judgment, observed, firstly, that the respondent's trademark BLUE
 JAYS has a worldwide presence since its adoption in 1976, and,
 secondly, that the consistent use of the BLUE JAYS mark on the
 uniforms of the TBJ club, as well as on goods and services associated
 with the club, had resulted in the BLUE JAYS mark acquiring
 "substantial, irrefutable and insurmountable" global goodwill and
 reputation. 12.8.2 Acquisition of global goodwill and reputation is entirely
 irrelevant, while examining an allegation of passing off. It is goodwill
 and reputation in India that matters. The Court has to assess whether
 the "global" goodwill, assuming it exists, has percolated into India.
 Before arriving at any finding that the BLUE-JAY mark could be
 cancelled under Section 11(3)(a) , therefore, the Court would have to
 satisfy itself that respondent's BLUE JAYS mark enjoyed goodwill,
 not merely globally, but also within India, before August 1998 when
 the appellants adopted the BLUE-JAY mark. 12.8.3 The impugned judgment does not, in fact, return any specific
 finding to the effect that the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark enjoyed
 any goodwill or reputation in India. In paragraph 26, after first
 observing that the mark had global goodwill and reputation, the Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 37 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 learned Single Judge has proceeded to hold that (i) the applications,
 by the respondent, for registration of the BLUE JAYS trademark in
 India prior to adoption of the BLUE-JAY mark by the appellants, (ii)
 the presence of the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark on its websites
 which were accessible in India since 1996, (iii) the availability of
 products bearing the BLUE JAYS mark of the respondent in India
 since 1996 and (iv) the broadcasting of the MLB matches in India at
 least since 1997, were sufficient to prove "use", by the respondent, of
 the BLUE JAYS mark in India prior to 1998. 12.8.4 We have already found the finding that the respondent was
 using the BLUE JAYS mark in India prior to 1998 to be
 unsustainable. We, however, proceed to examine whether the factors
 noted by the learned Single Judge in paragraph 26 of the impugned
 judgment, even read cumulatively with the other material on which
 the respondent sought to rely before the learned Single Judge, as
 enumerated in para 6.1.3 supra, would make out a case of trans-border
 reputation of the BLUE JAYS mark in India prior to 19 August 1998. 12.8.5 The answer, to our mind, has necessarily to be in the negative. 12.8.6 The law with respect to trans-border reputation and goodwill in
 a passing off action are the judgments of the Supreme Court in N.R.
 Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation24 , Milmet Oftho Industries v.
 Allergan Inc.25 and Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha v. Prius Auto 24 (1996) 5 SCC 714
 25 (2004) 12 SCC 624 Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 38 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 Industries Ltd.26

 12.8.7 N.R. Dongre

 In N.R. Dongre, the respondent Whirlpool Corporation27 sued the
 appellant N R Dongre28 for having manufactured and sold washing
 machines under the mark 'WHIRLPOOL', thereby confusing and
 deceiving buyers into believing that they had been manufactured by
 Whirlpool. Though Whirlpool was located abroad, and had no
 subsisting trade mark registration in India, the Supreme Court upheld
 the decision of this Court to injunct Dongre, as Whirlpool had the
 requisite trans border reputation which had spilled over into India.
 This finding was returned on the basis of the following facts: 26 (2018) 2 SCC 1
 27 "Whirlpool" hereinafter
 28 "Dongre" hereinafter Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 39 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 12.8.8 Milmet Oftho

 12.8.8.1 In Milmet Oftho, the respondent Allergan Inc29 sued
 Milmet Oftho Industries30 for having used the mark 'OCUFLOX' for
 eye drops, in respect of which Allergan claimed to be the prior owner
 and user. Allergan had no registration of the mark in India, though it
 claimed to have several registrations worldwide. Applications, for
 registration of the mark, filed by Allergan and Milmet were, however,
 pending with the Indian Trade Marks Registry. 12.8.8.2 A learned Single Judge of the High Court declined
 injunction, holding that Allergan was not selling OCUFLOX drops in
 India, and that Milmet had first introduced the product in this country.
 An appeal, therefrom, was allowed by the Division Bench, on the
 premise that Allergan was first in the market. 12.8.8.3 The Supreme Court, in appeal, upheld the decision of the
 Division Bench, reasoning thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 12.8.8.4 The following three important features of this decision
 merit mention: KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (ii) Secondly, the Supreme Court, even in such a case and
 with full consciousness of the overwhelming public interest
 involved, deemed it necessary to enter a cautionary caveat, by
 holding that "multinational corporations, which have no
 intention of coming to India or introducing their product in
 India should not be allowed to throttle an Indian company by
 not permitting it to sell a product in India, if the Indian
 company has genuinely adopted the mark and developed the
 product and is first in the market". (iii) Thirdly, the Supreme Court was also obviously
 influenced by the fact that the rival marks were identical, i.e.
 OCUFLOX. The case was, therefore, one of clear imitation. 12.8.9 Toyota

 12.8.9.1 Toyota is, perhaps, the most authoritative of the
 pronouncemenets on trans border reputation and spillover, in the
 context of passing off actions. 12.8.9.2 Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha31 was a manufacturer
 of automobiles, incorporated in Japan. Toyota instituted a suit against
 Prius Auto Industries Ltd.,32 in this Court, alleging infringement and
 passing off, by Prius, by use of the marks 'TOYOTA', 'TOYOTA
 INNOVA', 'TOYOTA DEVICE' and 'PRIUS'. Toyota claimed

 31 "Toyota" hereinafter
 32 "Prius" hereinafter Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 42 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 priority of user. Interlocutory injunction was granted, by a learned
 Single Judge of this Court, in favour of Toyota and against Prius, in
 respect of all these marks. Prius appealed to the Division Bench of
 this Court only against the injunction granted against use, by it, of the
 'PRIUS' mark. The Division Bench allowed Prius' appeal, and set
 aside the injunction granted in favour of Toyota and against Prius, qua
 use of the 'PRIUS' mark by the latter. Toyota appealed to the
 Supreme Court. 12.8.9.3 Before the learned Single Judge, Prius contended that the
 mark 'PRIUS' had not been registered in favour of Toyota for any
 product, and no PRIUS car had been shown to have been sold in India
 so as to result in creation of any goodwill therein. The product itself
 not being in existence in India, Prius contended that there was no
 possibility of Indian customers identifying the defendant's registered
 'PRIUS' trade mark with Toyota's products. Prius claimed, in fact, to
 be the first in the Indian market to manufacture add on accessories. 12.8.9.4 The learned Single Judge of this Court held that as (i)
 Toyota was the first in the world market to use the mark 'PRIUS', (ii)
 the goodwill and reputation of the brand 'PRIUS', given quantum of
 sales of 'PRIUS' cars and exponential rise thereof, and (iii) the
 permeation, into India, of the goodwill and reputation of Toyota in the
 mark 'PRIUS', Toyota was entitled to an injunction as sought. In
 arriving at the said decision , the learned Single Judge took into
 account (a) the fact that the plaintiff's websites had been visited by
 many Indians seeking information about Prius cars, (b) exhibitions of
 the car held in India and other countries, (c) advertisements in Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 43 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 different automobile magazines and cover stories in international
 magazines and journals, and (d) availability of information regarding
 the car in information-disseminating portals such as Wikipedia and
 Britannica. The learned Single Judge relied on N.R.
 Dongre and Milmet Oftho to hold that the Court was required to
 examine who was first in using the mark in the world market. Given
 the repute that the mark had earned internationally, which, according
 to the learned Single Judge, had permeated into India, Toyota was
 held to be entitled to an injunction. 12.8.9.5 The Division Bench of this Court disagreed with the
 learned Single Judge. It held that the learned Single Judge had taken
 into accounts facts pertaining to a period after the date of first use of
 the impugned PRIUS mark by Prius. The reportage, and advertising,
 of the launching of the Prius car by Toyota in 1997 was held not to be
 groundbreaking, and figured as small news items in select papers. The
 Division Bench held that the Universality doctrine (which posits that a
 mark signifies the same source the world over) had been replaced with
 the Territoriality doctrine (which recognized the separate existence of
 the trade mark in each country). Prior to April 2001, when Prius
 commenced use of the impugned PRIUS mark in India, internet
 penetration in the country was held to be limited, and insufficient to
 justify an inference of establishment, by Toyota, of its goodwill and
 reputation in India. 12.8.9.6 The Supreme Court, in its judgment, identified, at the
 outset, the three ingredients of passing off as goodwill of the plaintiff,
 misrepresentation by the defendant, and damage suffered by the Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 44 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 plaintiff as a consequence. 12.8.9.7 Paras 29 to 39 of the report, thereafter, deal with the
 territoriality doctrine, which applied to trade mark passing off in
 preference to the universality doctrine. They merit reproduction, in
 extenso, thus: 30. It seems that in Starbucks, the Apex Court of UK had
 really refined and reiterated an earlier view in Athletes' Foot
 Mktg. Associates Inc. v. Cobra Sports Ltd.34, to the following
 effect: 33 Starbucks (HK) Ltd v. British Sky Broadcasting Group, (2015) 1 WLR 2628
 34 1980 RPC 343 Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 45 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 31. A passing reference to a similar view of the Federal Court
 of Australia in Taco Bell v. Taco Co. of Australia35, may also be
 made. 32. Prof. Cristopher Wadlow's view on the subject appears to
 be that the test of whether a foreign claimant may succeed in a
 passing-off action is whether his business has a goodwill in a
 particular jurisdiction, which criterion is broader than the
 "obsolete" test of whether a claimant has a business/place of
 business in that jurisdiction. If there are customers for the
 claimant's products in that jurisdiction, then the claimant stands in
 the same position as a domestic trader. 33. The overwhelming judicial and academic opinion all over
 the globe, therefore, seems to be in favour of the territoriality
 principle. We do not see why the same should not apply to this
 country. 34. To give effect to the territoriality principle, the courts must
 necessarily have to determine if there has been a spillover of the
 reputation and goodwill of the mark used by the claimant who has
 brought the passing-off action. In the course of such determination
 it may be necessary to seek and ascertain the existence of not
 necessarily a real market but the presence of the claimant through
 its mark within a particular territorial jurisdiction in a more subtle
 form which can best be manifested by the following illustrations,
 though they arise from decisions of courts which may not be final
 in that particular jurisdiction. 35. In LA Societe Anonyme Des Anciens Etablissements
 Panhard v. Panhard Levassor Motor Co. Ltd.36, the plaintiffs
 were French car manufacturers who had consciously decided to not
 launch their cars in England (apprehending patent infringement).
 Nevertheless, some individuals had got them imported to England.
 It was seen that England was one of the plaintiff's markets and
 thus, in this case, permanent injunction was granted. Similarly
 in Grant v. Levitt37, a Liverpool business concern trading as the
 Globe Furnishing Company, obtained an injunction against the use
 of the same name in Dublin as it was observed that advertisements
 by the plaintiff had reached Ireland and there were Irish customers. 36. C & A Modes v C & A (Waterford) Ltd.38 , was a case
 where the plaintiffs operated a chain of clothes stores throughout

 35 (1981) 60 FLR 60 (Aust)
 36 (1901) 2 Ch 513
 37 (1901) 18 RPC 361
 38 1976 IR 198 (Irish) Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 46 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 the UK and even in Northern Ireland but not in the Republic of
 Ireland where the defendants were trading. The Court held that,

 "a very substantial and regular custom from the Republic of
 Ireland was enjoyed by this store. Up to that time an
 excursion train travelled each Thursday from Dublin to
 Belfast, and so great was the influx of customers from the
 Republic as a result of that excursion that the store
 ordinarily employed extra part-time staff on Thursday on
 the same basis as it did on Saturday which were normally
 the busiest shopping days." The said view has since been upheld by the Irish Supreme Court. 37. Whether the second principle evolved under the trinity test
 i.e. triple identity test laid down in Reckitt & Colman Products
 Ltd. v Borden Inc39. would stand established on the test of
 likelihood of confusion or real/actual confusion is another question
 that seems to have arisen in the present case as the Division Bench
 of the High Court has taken the view that the first test i.e.
 likelihood of confusion is required to be satisfied only in quia
 timet actions and actual confusion will have to be proved when the
 suit or claim is being adjudicated finally as by then a considerable
 period of time following the initiation of the action of passing-off
 might have elapsed. Once the claimant who has brought the action
 of passing-off establishes his goodwill in the jurisdiction in which
 he claims that the defendants are trying to pass off their goods
 under the brand name of the claimant's goods, the burden of
 establishing actual confusion as distinguished from possibility
 thereof ought not to be fastened on the claimant. The possibility or
 likelihood of confusion is capable of being demonstrated with
 reference to the particulars of the mark or marks, as may be, and
 the circumstances surrounding the manner of sale/marketing of the
 goods by the defendants and such other relevant facts. Proof of
 actual confusion, on the other hand, would require the claimant to
 bring before the Court evidence which may not be easily
 forthcoming and directly available to the claimant. In a given
 situation, there may be no complaints made to the claimant that
 goods marketed by the defendants under the impugned mark had
 been inadvertently purchased as that of the plaintiff claimant. The
 onus of bringing such proof, as an invariable requirement, would
 be to cast on the claimant an onerous burden which may not be
 justified. Commercial and business morality which is the
 foundation of the law of passing-off should not be allowed to be
 defeated by imposing such a requirement. In such a situation,
 likelihood of confusion would be a surer and better test of proving 39 (1990) 1 WLR 491 Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 47 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 an action of passing-off by the defendants. Such a test would also
 be consistent with commercial and business morality which the
 law of passing-off seeks to achieve. In the last resort, therefore, it
 is preponderance of probabilities that must be left to judge the
 claim. 38. The next exercise would now be the application of the
 above principles to the facts of the present case for determination
 of the correctness of either of the views arrived at in the two-tier
 adjudication performed by the High Court of Delhi. Indeed, the
 trade mark "Prius" had undoubtedly acquired a great deal of
 goodwill in several other jurisdictions in the world and that too
 much earlier to the use and registration of the same by the
 defendants in India. But if the territoriality principle is to govern
 the matter, and we have already held it should, there must be
 adequate evidence to show that the plaintiff had acquired a
 substantial goodwill for its car under the brand name "Prius" in
 the Indian market also. The car itself was introduced in the Indian
 market in the year 2009-2010. The advertisements in automobile
 magazines, international business magazines; availability of data
 in information-disseminating portals like Wikipedia and
 online Britannica Dictionary and the information on the internet,
 even if accepted, will not be a safe basis to hold the existence of
 the necessary goodwill and reputation of the product in the Indian
 market at the relevant point of time, particularly having regard to
 the limited online exposure at that point of time i.e. in the year
 2001. The news items relating to the launching of the product in
 Japan isolatedly and singularly in The Economic Times (issues
 dated 27-3-1997 and 15-12-1997) also do not firmly establish the
 acquisition and existence of goodwill and reputation of the brand
 name in the Indian market. Coupled with the above, the evidence
 of the plaintiff's witnesses themselves would be suggestive of a very
 limited sale of the product in the Indian market and virtually the
 absence of any advertisement of the product in India prior to April
 2001. This, in turn, would show either lack of goodwill in the
 domestic market or lack of knowledge and information of the
 product amongst a significant section of the Indian
 population. While it may be correct that the population to whom
 such knowledge or information of the product should be available
 would be the section of the public dealing with the product as
 distinguished from the general population, even proof of such
 knowledge and information within the limited segment of the
 population is not prominent. 39. All these should lead to us to eventually agree with the
 conclusion of the Division Bench of the High Court that the brand
 name of the car Prius had not acquired the degree of goodwill,
 reputation and the market or popularity in the Indian market so as Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 48 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 to vest in the plaintiff the necessary attributes of the right of a
 prior user so as to successfully maintain an action of passing-off
 even against the registered owner. In any event the core of the
 controversy between the parties is really one of appreciation of the
 evidence of the parties; an exercise that this Court would not
 undoubtedly repeat unless the view taken by the previous forum is
 wholly and palpably unacceptable which does not appear to be so
 in the present premises." (Italics and underscoring supplied)

 12.8.9.8 Toyota is a defining authority on the evidence which can,
 or cannot, make out a case of trans border reputation and goodwill. 12.8.9.9 Toyota, thus, holds that facts such as (i) the accessibility
 of Toyota's websites in India, (ii) several visits to Toyota's websites
 by many Indians seeking information about Prius' products, (iii)
 exhibitions of the Prius product in India and other countries, (iv)
 advertisements and cover stories in magazines and availability of
 information regarding the "Prius" mark and products in various
 internet portals, even seen cumulatively, did not make out a case of
 trans border reputation and goodwill. 12.8.10 In paragraph 26 of the impugned judgment, however, the
 learned Single Judge has practically relied on identical, or even lesser,
 material, to hold that use of the BLUE JAYS mark in India by the
 respondent, prior to August 1998, stood established. 12.8.11 Before adverting, now, to the individual elements cited
 by the respondent, to support its stand that the BLUE JAYS mark
 enjoyed trans border reputation and goodwill in India, we have to bear
 certain basic principles in mind. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 12.8.12 Firstly, there is no presumption that a mark, howsoever
 wide or global its reputation might otherwise be, has trans border
 reputation in India. Trans border reputation in India has to be
 positively proved. This is especially shown in the case of marks which
 may be associated with activities which are not popular or well known
 in India. Invoking this principle, the appellants have sought to contend
 that baseball, as a sport, is not followed in India by any substantial
 part of the populace. The respondent's BLUE JAYS mark is
 exclusively associated with the TBJ Club, which is a baseball Club
 located in Canada. Mr. Lall submits that the mark might, therefore,
 have considerable goodwill and reputation in Canada, perhaps in the
 US and, perhaps, also in other countries which play baseball or where
 baseball is a popular sport. In a country like India, where baseball is
 not played and is hardly followed, it is contended by the appellants
 that the mark of the TBJ Club cannot be said to have any goodwill or
 reputation. Baseball, in India, is not cricket. 12.9 Secondly, the availability of a mark on websites can again be
 no indicator of trans-border goodwill or reputation percolating into a
 particular country such as India. Websites are globally accessible. If
 the principle that accessibility of a mark on a website is to be treated
 as an indicator of trans-border reputation, every mark of every entity
 would have trans border reputation in every country in the world. It is
 not enough, therefore, to aver that a particular mark is available on a
 website which is accessible within India, to substantiate a contention
 that the mark enjoys trans-border reputation in India. Positive
 assertions regarding the number of times the websites has been Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 50 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 accessed in India would have also to be pleaded. 12.10 Similarly, the availability of goods bearing a particular mark,
 for sale on websites, whether they belong to the owner of the mark or
 are e-commerce websites, can also be no evidence of percolation of
 the reputation of the mark into India. As in the case of websites in
 general, e-commerce websites may be accessible within India, even if
 they are not hosted from within the country. Similarly, there is no
 necessity that every product which is available on an e-commerce
 website commands reputation or goodwill within India. Mere
 availability of products bearing a mark for sale on an e-commerce
 website, or on the website of the owner of the mark, would not,
 however, suffice as proof of trans-border goodwill or reputation. It
 would further have to be shown that orders were actually placed or
 purchases effected, to a considerable existent, of the goods bearing the
 mark, from within India. 12.11 The same principle applies to publication of marks in
 periodicals, magazines, etc. With the proliferation of the internet,
 most magazines, periodicals and the like are now available globally.
 Every mark which figures in such magazines or periodicals cannot,
 therefore, be said to have trans-border reputation within India. There
 would have to be positive assertions regarding the readership or
 subscription of such magazines among Indians. Besides, such
 assertions cannot be merely in the nature of bald statements, but
 would also have to be supported by disclosure of the material on
 which the assertion is made, even if positive evidence in that regard
 may be deferred to the stage of trial. In the case of newspapers or Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 51 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 periodicals, empirical material should also be forthcoming that the
 newspapers or periodicals are widely circulated in the country.
 Offices of professionals often stock magazines, to occupy the time of
 that those who are awaiting an appointment. The mere fact that some
 of them may be sports magazines does not ipso facto indicate that
 every sport, with reference to which an article may be contained in the
 magazines, has goodwill or reputation. 12.12 Goodwill and reputation, it has to be remembered, is a two-way
 street. One cannot claim to have goodwill and reputation, unless
 others feel the same. Thumping one's own chest, and claiming to be
 famous, is mere false hope, and nothing more. Goodwill and
 reputation are positive attributes, relative to others. The purpose of
 requiring establishment of goodwill and reputation, in passing off
 actions, has to be remembered. They are not empty incantations.
 Passing off, in its very essence, involves misleading the consumer
 public into believing one's goods or services, to be those of another.
 If the other has no goodwill or reputation, the very raison d' etre of
 alleging passing off fails. Why would one pass off one's goods as
 those of another, if the other has no goodwill or reputation? Ergo,
 questions Mr. Lall, "Why on earth would my client adopt a mark
 which belongs to a baseball club based out of Canada?" 12.18 We are unable to sustain these findings. 12.19 In the first place, the finding that the respondent was the holder
 of the trade mark BLUE JAYS in India under various Classes, for
 some of which the respondent had applied well before the appellant
 applied for registration of the BLUE-JAY mark, is, with respect,
 incorrect. The only two applications filed by the respondent for the
 BLUE JAYS mark were in 1983 and 1988, for registering the
 TORONTO BLUE JAYS word marks, both of which were abandoned
 much before the appellants applied for registering its BLUE-JAY
 mark. The respondent was never, therefore, the "holder" of the said
 marks. 12.20 In fact, in the rejoinder filed before the learned Single Judge,
 the respondent has admitted that "at least till 1995", the respondent Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 54 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 owned one or more valid registration of the BLUE JAYS marks. It is
 undisputed that, on 19 August 1998, when Appellant 1 applied for
 registration of the BLUE-JAY mark - which the impugned judgment
 has removed from the Register - there was no valid registration, held
 by the respondent, of any BLUE JAYS mark, in word or device form. 12.21 Secondly, acquisition of global reputation is irrelevant, unless
 said reputation has percolated into India. 12.22 Thirdly, merely accessibility of websites, on which the
 respondent's mark figured, or availability of merchandise bearing the
 said mark for sale in India, would not make out even a prima facie
 case of goodwill or reputation. No reference is made to any
 transaction of sale and purchase - except one solitary invoice.
 Significantly, the respondent does not seek to contend that goods or
 merchandise, bearing the BLUE JAYS mark, was physically available
 for sale anywhere in India, or that there is any franchisee, or any brick
 and mortar store, which sells the said products. 12.23 The documents on which the respondent places reliance, to
 make out a case of goodwill and reputation, too, do not advance its
 case. To wit, (i) Document 12, as filed by the respondent, relates to
 articles and photographs available in the Sports Illustrated
 magazine of 2 November 1999. It cannot, therefore, constitute a
 basis to plead existence of goodwill or reputation, of the
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark prior to 19 August 1998. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (ii) Document 25 contains printouts of news and media
 reports, around the world, featuring the respondent's BLUE
 JAYS mark. The only periodicals cited in these documents are
 the New York Times and the Baltimore Sun. There is no
 material to indicate that these periodicals had any circulation in
 India, at any point of time, much less prior to August 1998. (iii) Document 27 refers to an article which adverts to the
 BLUE JAYS Club. However, the article itself is from a
 magazine which was launched only in 2016. (iv) Document 27 further adverts to references of the BLUE
 JAYS Club in the "Friends" sitcom. This, again, is irrelevant as
 the "Friends" sitcom was first aired, in India, in 1999. (v) Document 23 contains printouts from the Wayback
 Machine site, and the respondent's website, evidencing
 international broadcasts of MLB games in India. Mere
 reference, in news articles, of broadcast of MLB games in
 India, cannot constitute a basis for asserting trans-border
 reputation. There is no reference, in the petition, to the
 viewership of such games within India. Moreover, as the
 appellants point out, the screen shots do not refer to the TBJ
 Club but only to baseball in general. It has to be remembered
 that the respondent is required to establish the existence of
 goodwill and reputation, not in baseball as a sport, but in the
 BLUE JAYS trade mark. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (vi) Document 26 contains screen shots from the respondent
 websites between 1996 and 1997 showing use of the respondent
 BLUE JAYS mark and availability of products bearing the
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark online. As we have already
 noted, mere accessibility to websites is no proof of trans-border
 reputation. Equally, mere availability of goods online is also no
 evidence in that regard unless there is positive material relating
 to sale and purchase of the said goods, to a substantial extent.
 No such material is forthcoming. (vii) Similarly, Document 29 refers to excerpts from the
 respondent's website, indicating that the respondent's goods
 bearing the BLUE JAYS mark are available for purchase in
 India. In the absence of any material indicating actual sale or
 purchase, or at least interest, in the Indian consuming public, to
 purchase such goods, the mere availability of goods online
 cannot constitute positive material to indicate trans-border
 reputation. (viii) Document 13 refers to excerpts from the respondent's
 website showing sale of licensed goods bearing the
 respondent's BLUE JAYS mark. There is no evidence that any
 such sale took place in India or that any consumer from India
 purchased the products. The petition does not make any
 reference to any person or outlet in India which is licensed to
 sell goods bearing the respondent BLUE JAYS mark. KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04 (ix) Document 16 again contains printouts of the respondent
 websites evidencing availability of MLB products in India, and
 invoices showing shipping of MLB licensed products by the
 respondent to India. None of this material pertains to the period
 prior to August 1998 and is, therefore, of no significance. 12.24 Given the principles relating to trans-border reputation
 elucidated earlier in this judgment, and the law as it emerges from the
 decision in Toyota, it is clear that the material cited by the respondent
 in its petition does not make out any case of trans border reputation of
 the BLUE JAYS mark, in India. There is, in any case, certainly no
 material to indicate that the BLUE JAYS mark enjoyed trans-border
 goodwill and reputation in India prior to 19 August 1998. 12.25 In the absence of any evidence of trans-border goodwill or
 reputation of the respondent's mark in India prior to 19 August 1998,
 it is clear that no case of passing off, by the appellants of its products
 or services as those of the respondent, by using the BLUE-JAY mark
 can be said to exist. 12.26 Resultantly, no case for removal of the appellants' BLUE-JAY
 mark from the register of Trade Marks under Section 11(3)(a) of the
 Trade Marks Act is made out. 13. Re: Section 11(10)(ii) - bad faith adoption

 13.1 We now proceed to address the issue of bad faith adoption.
 Indeed, the learned Single Judge has primarily directed removal from Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 58 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 the register of Trade Marks, of the appellants' BLUE-JAY mark on
 the ground that its adoption was tainted with bad faith. 13.2 We are of the considered opinion that the material on which the
 learned Single Judge has arrived at a conclusion of bad faith adoption
 on the part of the appellants of the BLUE-JAY mark is entirely
 inadequate for the said purpose. 13.3 The learned Single Judge has repeatedly adverted to the
 appellants' BLUE-JAY mark as "shrouded under a dark cloud of
 suspicion". To our mind, even if this finding were to be treated as
 justifiable, it would not make out a case of bad faith adoption. No
 amount of suspicion make out a case of bad faith, which has to be
 definitively established in order for a mark to be removable from the
 register in terms of Section 11(10)(ii) of the Trade Marks Act. 13.4 One of us (C. Hari Shankar, J.), sitting singly, has, in BPI
 Sports, considered the ambit of the expression "bad faith" as
 employed in Section 11(10)(ii) and held in that regard as under: 31. To similar effect was the decision in Lancôme
 Parfums et Beauté and Cie's Trade Mark case43." 13.5 Lindsay J held thus, in Gromas Plasticulture Ltd v. Don &
 Low Nonwovens Ltd44, on "bad faith": 13.6 It has to be remembered that bad faith, in order to constitute a
 basis to remove of mark from the register of Trade Marks has to be
 found to exist at the time when the applicant applied for registration of
 the mark. This is because bad faith must reside in the applicant who
 applies for registration of the mark and not in any other person. Section 11(10)(ii) envisages the taking into consideration, by the
 Registrar, of bad faith involved "either of the applicant or the
 opponent" affecting the rights relating to the trade mark. 13.7 The applicant must, therefore, be shown to have acted with bad
 faith. Either, therefore, the application made by the applicant must be
 tainted with bad faith or, after the application has been submitted, but
 before it is registered, the applicant must have acted with bad faith.
 No allegation of bad faith, howsoever serious, subsequent to the
 registration of the mark, can be relevant for the purposes of Section
 11(10)(ii) of the Trade Marks Act. 43 2001 ETMR 89
 44 (1999) RPC 367 Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 61 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 13.8 The impugned judgment, in our respectful opinion, does not
 advert to any material on the basis of which it can be said that, at any
 time prior to the registration of the BLUE-JAY mark in favour of the
 appellants, there was any bad faith in the manner in which they acted. 13.9 To sustain the finding of bad faith, the learned Single Judge
 observes that the explanation provided by the appellants for adopting
 the BLUE-JAY mark, in the counter statement filed before the
 Registrar of Trade Marks, was at variance with the explanation
 tendered in the reply filed to the Section 57 petition of the respondent.
 We may, in this context, reproduce paras 19 and 20 of the impugned
 judgment, thus: 13.10 Having perused paras 19 and 20 of the impugned judgment, we
 are of the opinion that they do not make out any case of bad faith
 adoption by the appellants of the BLUE-JAY mark, either in law or on
 facts. 13.11 The observation of the learned Single Judge that the
 explanation tendered by the appellants for adopting the BLUE-JAY
 mark in their counter statement before the Trade Mark Registry and in
 response to the Section 57 petition of the respondent, was
 contradictory, cannot be accepted. There is no real contradiction in the
 two explanations. In the counter statement filed before the Trade
 Marks Registry, the appellants submitted that the BLUE-JAY mark
 was adopted as the blue jay is a common bird of North America. In
 the reply filed to the respondents' Section 57 petition, the appellants
 merely pointed out that the BLUE-JAY mark had been adopted at the
 instance of Mr. Dinesh Kumar Vijay, from the name of the Blue Jay Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 63 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 Tourist Resort which he used to frequent, as it was also the name of a
 famous bird of North America. It is not, therefore, as though the
 appellants advanced two different reasons, before the Trade Marks
 Registry and before the learned Single Judge, for adopting the BLUE-
 JAY mark. 13.12 Even if, arguendo, it were to be assumed that the reasons cited
 by the appellants for adopting the BLUE-JAY mark on these two
 occasions were different, that cannot, in our mind, make out a case of
 bad faith adoption of the BLUE-JAY mark at the time when the
 appellants applied for registration thereof. It has to be remembered
 that, on that day, there was no subsisting registration of the BLUE
 JAYS mark in favour of the respondent. The two applications filed by
 the respondents for registering the BLUE JAYS mark in 1983 and
 1988 had both been abandoned prior to Appellant 1's application for
 registration of the BLUE-JAY mark. We fail to understand how, even
 if it were to be assumed that the appellants were aware of the BLUE
 JAYS mark of the respondent, any bad faith can be alleged in the
 appellant applying for registration of the BLUE-JAY mark, when the
 respondent had abandoned its applications for registration of the
 BLUE JAYS marks much earlier. 13.13 Moreover, we have already found that there is no substantial
 material on the basis of which it could be said that, on 19 August
 1998, the respondent's BLUE JAYS mark commanded any goodwill
 or reputation in India. We agree with Mr. Lall, therefore, that there
 was no real reason for the appellants to seek to capitalize on the
 goodwill or reputation of the mark belonging to a baseball club which Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 64 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 was based in Canada and had never played a single match in India,
 where it has neither goodwill nor reputation. 13.14 Further, if the findings of the learned Single Judge have to be
 accepted, it would amount to permitting the respondents to
 monopolize, and claim exclusivity in, an abandoned mark, which is
 clearly impermissible in law. 13.15 The learned Single Judge has, on this aspect, further observed,
 in para 22 of the impugned judgment, thus: 13.16 With great respect, we fail to understand why the appellants
 ought to have been conscious, careful or specific in adopting a mark
 which was not similar to any mark which stood registered in the name
 of the respondent, or which had any goodwill or reputation in India. In
 fact, the very fact that the respondent had abandoned its applications
 for registration of the mark BLUE JAYS would convey a clear signal
 that there was no proscription on any other party applying for
 registration of an identical or similar mark in India. Any such
 application, if made, cannot, therefore, be said to have been tainted
 with bad faith. 13.17 The finding, of the learned Single Judge, that the adoption of
 the mark BLUE-JAY by the appellants was tainted with bad faith, and
 that, therefore, the mark was liable to be cancelled under Section Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 65 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 11(10)(ii) of the Trade Marks Act , is not, therefore, sustainable in law. 14. Re. Findings regarding prior user of the BLUE JAYS mark by
 the respondent

 14.1 The learned Single Judge has, in paras 27 to 29 of the impugned
 judgment, observed that the respondent was the prior user of the mark
 BLUE JAYS and that the appellants had adopted the BLUE-JAY
 mark only in 1998, 22 years after the adoption of the BLUE JAYS
 mark by the respondent. 14.2 This finding is predicated on the premise that the respondent's
 adoption of the BLUE JAYS mark dates back to 1976. The very basis
 of this premise is incorrect, as the respondent commenced user of the
 BLUE JAYS mark in 1976 only in Canada and the US. There is no
 proof of any user, by the respondent, of the BLUE JAYS mark, in
 India, prior to 1998. As such, the finding that the adoption by the
 appellants of the BLUE-JAY mark in 1998 was 22 years after the
 commencement of user by the respondent, of the BLUE JAYS mark,
 is unsustainable on facts. 15. Re. Conclusions in the impugned judgment

 In view of the aforesaid discussion, the conclusions contained in paras
 35 to 37 of the impugned judgment are obviously unsustainable. 16. We are, therefore, of the considered opinion that no case for
 rectification of the Register of Trade Marks by removal, therefrom, of Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 66 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04
 the appellants' BLUE-JAY mark under Section 57(2) read with Section 11 of the Trade Marks Act, exists. Conclusion 17. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we are unable to sustain the
 impugned judgment dated 1 July 2025 of the learned Single Judge in
 C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 279/2023. It is, accordingly, quashed and set
 aside. The appellants' BLUE-JAY mark would stand restored to the
 Register of Trade Marks forthwith. 18. The appeal stands allowed in the aforesaid terms with no orders
 as to costs. C. HARI SHANKAR, J. OM PRAKASH SHUKLA, J. JANUARY 5, 2026/aky/yg Signature Not Verified LPA 475/2025 Digitally Signed By:AJIT Page 67 of 67 KUMAR
Signing Date:05.01.2026
15:11:04