Dear, Dear Sir, This is inform with reference of Transaction ID - T2206281603441324046620 that I had lost my Rs.10005 from my account on 28th June'22 due to fraud call transaction through UPI. I didn't enter any password or pin, Immediately i complaint to customer care.The banker told me to provide the cyber crime report and other details of transaction, which i submitted to nearest branch.The Bank provided me the closure date of 12th July'22. In mean while the investigation process is started and i got a call from the investigation team on 6th July'22 & 7th July'22, I explain all the details to them over the phone and than the bank done the credit of Rs.10005 in my HDFC account within 2hrs than amount puts on hold.From 8th July'22 - 11th July'22 i called to phone banking executive regarding the holding the amount of RS.10005.They are not able explain instead of providing me solution they told me to call merchant bank because they hold the amount so they credit the amount. I called to the merchant bank they told me that we can only help to the merchant customer or who having the vending machine, than i again called to the phone banking officer they said we have no idea regarding this holding amount.Number of times i called phone banker but no has any idea they were refuse to help me.On 11th July also i called to the phone banker again same reply no idea. After  that Rs.10005 is debited from my account without my concern or informing me.Than again i called to the phone banker regarding the debited amount of Rs.10005 than they told me that its your liability bank will not responsible that and they will not pay you. This is how the HDFC bank is treated with their customer. In this way the bank misguide me or cheat with me. I got a mail in which Mr. dharnajay Pandey contact details is mentioned. I call him on 11th July'22 he didn't pick the call than i mailed them and got a call from him on 12th July'22 he told me that he will put a request of reverse the amount give me a one day to sought the issue. On 12th July' 22 I didn't get any call from them and on 13th i called him he say give a time i call you later. Now on, 14th July'22 I called him he say this amount is transferred by investigation department i don't why its credited and reversed. The investigation department will refuse to pay because its your liability not Bank's. In this way everyone is blaming each other, no one is ready to help the customer.Even the Branch manager Mr. Pandey said that investigation team is responsible for this i don't know why my name & phone number is provided. I request you i take necessary action it because each and every is blaming each other. If its my liability than the bank had transfer the amount to make fool or cheat either helping to fraud. At least the bank should inform me that this is a temporary credit. Bank has no right to hold and reversed the amount without giving any prior notice or concern. my query is why did bank transferred the amount without investigation. If investigation team is credit the amount than who is responsible for debit and why? The bank imposed the liability on me. It's not my liability i didn't enter the PIN no., OTP or password. If we receive or pay the amount we need to scan it, i only did the scan it or even enter the amount in it. I already lost my Rs.10005 which is a monetary loss to me and my family. On the other hand the bank gives me a mental disturb which is not acceptable. please refund my amount as soon as possible. I open the account with HDFC Bank for savings and security but now i feel the bank is not secure as well provide mental upset to customers. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)