CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos.	 67,
136 and 172 of 1959 and 82 and 83 of 1962. Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order dated
November 3, 1958 in Criminal Appeals Nos. 196, 256 and	 363
of 1958. B. B.	 Tawakley and S. C. Mazumdar, for the appellant	 (in
Cr. A. No. 67159). S. C. Mazumdar, for the appellant (in Cr. A. No. 136/59).
T. S. Venakataraman, for the appellant (in Cr.
A. No. 172/59). N. N. Keshwani, for the appellant (in Cr. A. No. 82/62).
C. B.	 Agarwala, K.	L. Misra, Advocate General, U. P.
Mangala	 Prasad Baghari, Shanti Sarup Khanduja, Malik Arjun
Das and Ganpat Rai, for the appellant (in Cr. A.	 No.
83/62). N. S.	 Bindra, D. R. Prem and R. H. Dhebar, for	 the
respondent in all the Appeals. 1963. March 18. The judgment of the Court was delivered by
SUBBA RAO J.-These appeals by special leave arise out of two
judgments of the High Court of Bombay, one that of Vyas	 and
Kotval JJ., dated March 31, 1958, and the other that of Shah
and Shelat JJ., dated November 3, 1958, in what,	 for
convenience of reference,, may be described as	 the Empire
Conspiracy Case. At the outset it would be convenient to state	briefly	 the
case of the prosecution. One Lala Shankarlal, a political
leader	and Vice-President of the Forward Bloc and a highly
competent commercial magnate, and his	 nominees held	 the
controlling block of	shares	of the	 Tropical Insurance
Company	 Limited, hereinafter called the "Tropical", and he
was the Chairman and Managing Director of the said company.
He had also controlling voice in another company called	 the
Delhi Swadeshi	 Cooperative Stores Ltd. The	 said Delhi
Stores held a large number of shares of the Tropical. In or
about the middle of 1948, Sardar Sardul Singh Caveeshar, who
was controlling the People's Insurance Co. Ltd. and other
concerns in Lahore, and Kaul, a practising barrister,	came
to Delhi. During that year the former was the President of
the Forward Bloc and Shankarlal was	its Vice-President.
Shankerlal, 382 Caveeshar and	Kaul conceived the idea	 of purchasing	 the
controlling block of 63,000 shares of the Jupiter Insurance
Company	 Ltd., hereinafter referred to as the "'Jupiter", a
prosperous company, in the name of the Tropical from	 the
Khaitan	 Group	which was holding the said Jupiter shares.
But the financial position of the Tropical did	 not permit
the said purchase and so they thought of a fraudulent device
of purchasing the said Jupiter shares out of the funds of
the Jupiter itself. Under an agreement entered into	with
the Khaitan Group, the out of the 63,000 shares of	 the
Jupiter	 was fixed at Rs. 33,39,000/-, and the purchasers
agreed	to pay Rs. 5,00,000/- in advance as "'black money" The essence of conspiracy is, therefore, that there should
be an agreement between persons to do one or other of	 the
acts described in the section.	 The said agreement may be
proved by direct evidence or may be inferred from acts and
conduct of the parties.	 There is no difference between	 the
mode of proof of the offence of conspiracy and that of	 any
other offence : it can be established by direct evidence or
by circumstantial evidence. But s. 10 of the Evidence	 Act
introduces the doctrine of agency and if the conditions laid
down therein are satisfied,	the acts done	by one	 are
admissible against the co-conspirators. The said section
reads : This section, as the opening words indicate, will come	into
play only when the Court is satisfied that 390 there is reasonable ground to believe that two or	more
persons	 have conspired together to commit an offence or an
actionable wrong, that is to say, there should be a prima
facie evidence that a person was a party to the conspiracy
before	his acts can be used against his co-conspirators.
Once such a reasonable ground exists, anything said, done or
written	 by one of the conspirators in reference to	 the
common intention, after the said intention was	entertained,
is relevant against the others, not only for the purpose of
proving the existence of the conspiracy but also for proving
that the other person was a party to it. The	 evidentiary
value of the said acts is limited by	 two circumstances,
namely, that the acts shall be in reference to their common
intention and in respect of a period after such intention
was entertained by any one of them. The expression	"'in
reference to their common intention" is very comprehensive
and it	 appears to have been designedly used to give it a
wider scope than the words "in furtherance	of" in	 the
English	 law ;	 with the result, anything said, done or
written by a coconspirator, after the conspiracy was formed,
will be evidence against the other before he	entered	 the
field of conspiracy or after he left it. Another important
limitation implicit in the language is indicated by	 the
expressed scope of its relevancy. Anything so said, done or
written	 is a relevant fact only "as against each of	 the
persons believed to be so conspiring as well for the purpose
of proving the existence of the conspiracy	as for	 the
purpose	 of showing that any such person was a party to	 it.
It can only be used for the purpose of proving the existence
of the conspiracy or that the other person was a party to
it. It cannot be used in favour of the other party or	 for
the purpose of showing that such a person was not a party to
the conspiracy. In short, the section can be	analysed as
follows	 : (1)	 There	shall be a prima facie evidence
affording a reasonable ground for a Court to believe	that
two or more persons are 391 members	 of a	conspiracy ; (2) if the	 said condition is
fulfilled, anything said, done or written by any one of them
in reference to their common intention will	be evidence
against the other; (3) anything said, done or written by him
should	have been said, done or written by him after	 the
intention was formed by any one of them ; (4) it would	also
be relevant for the said purpose against another who entered
the conspiracy whether it was said, done or written before
he entered the conspiracy or after he left it ; and (5) it
can only be used against a co-conspirator and not in	 his
favour; With this background let us now take the evidence against
each of the appellants and the contentions raised for or
against him. But it must be stated that it is not possible
to separate each of	 the accused in the	 matter	 of
consideration of the evidence, for in a case of conspiracy
necessarily there will be common evidence covering the	acts
of all the accused. We may, therefore, in dealing with some
of the	 accused, consider also the evidence that will be
germane against the other accused. We shall first take the case of Accused-6, Caveeshar, who is
the appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 82 of 1962. So far as
this appellant is concerned the learned Sessions judge found
that he was a member of the conspiracy and the	 High Court
confirmed that finding.	 It is the Practice,, of this Court
not to interfere with concurrent findings of fact even	 in
regular appeals and particularly so in appeals under Art.
136 of the Constitution. We would, therefore, approach	 the
appeal of this accused from that perspective.
Learned counsel for this appellant argued before us that the
said accused was convicted by the Sessions judge for being a
member	of the conspiracy in the Jupiter case in respect of
his acts pertaining 392 to that conspiracy and therefore he could not be convicted
over again in the present case on the basis of the facts on
which the earlier conviction was founded; in other words, it
is said that he was convicted in the present trial for	 the
same offence in respect of which he had already	been
convicted in the Jupiter case and such a conviction would
infringe his fundamental right under Art. 20	(2) of	 the
Constitution, and in support of this contention reference
was made to certain decisions of the Supreme Court of	 the
United States of America. The said Article reads : The previous case in which this accused was convicted was in
regard to a conspiracy to commit criminal breach of trust in
respect	 of the funds of the Jupiter	and that case	 was
finally disposed of by this Court in Sardul Singh Caveeshar
v. State of Bombay (1).	 Therein it was found that Caveeshar
was a	party to the conspiracy and also a party to	 the
fraudulent transactions entered into by the Jupiter in	 his
favour.	 The present case relates to a different conspiracy
altogether. The conspiracy in question was to lift	 the
funds of the Empire, though its object was to cover up	 the
fraud committed in respect of the Jupiter. Therefore., it
may be that the defalcations made in Jupiter may afford a
motive	for the new conspiracy, but the two offences	 are
distinct ones.	 Some accused may be common to both of	them
some of the facts proved to establish the Jupiter conspiracy
may also have to be proved to support the motive for	 the
second	conspiracy. The question is whether that in itself
would be sufficient to make the two conspiracies the one and
the same offence. Learned counsel	suggests that	 the
question raised involves the interpretation of a provision
of the Constitution and therefore the appeal of this accused
(1) [1958] S. C. R. 161. will have to be referred to a Bench consisting of not	less
than 5 judges.	Under Art. 145 (3) of the Constitution	only
a case	 involving a substantial question of law as to	 the
interpretation of the Constitution shall be heard by a Bench
comprising not less than 5 Judges. This Court held in State
of Jammu & Kashmir v. Thakur Ganga	Singh (1), that a
substantial question of interpretation of a provision of the
Constitution cannot arise when the law on the	subject	 has
been finally and effectively decided by this	Court.	 Two
decisions of this Court have construed the provisions of Art. 20 (2) of the Constitution in the context of	 the
expression "same offence." In Leo	Roy Frey v.	 The
Superintendent,	 District Jail, Amritsar (2),	 proceedings
were taken against certain persons in the first instance
before	the customs authorities under s. 167 (8) of the	 Sea
Customs	 Act and heavy personal penalties were	 imposed on
them. thereafter, they were charged for an offence under s.
120-B of the Indian Penal Code . This Court held that an
offence under s. 120-B is not the same offence as that under
the Sea Customs Act.	Das C. J., speaking for	 the Court,
observed : This Court again considered the scope of the words "'same
offence" in The State of Bombay v. ,S.	L. Apte (3). There
the respondents were both convicted and sentenced by	 the
Magistrate under s. 409 of the Indian Penal Code and s.	 105 of the Insurance Act. Dealing with the argument that the
(1) [1960] 2 S.C.R.346. (2) [1958] S. C. R. 822, 827,
(3)[1961] 3.S.C.R.,107,114. allegations of fact were the same, Rajagopala Ayyangar	 J.,
rejecting the contention, observed on behalf of the Court : This decision lays down that the test to ascertain whether
two offences are the	 same is not the identity of	 the
allegations but the identity of the	ingredients of	 the
offences. In view of the said decisions of this Court,	 the
American decisions cited at	the Bar do not call	 for
consideration.	 As the question raised has already	been
decided by this Court, what remains is only the	 application
of the principle laid down to the facts of the present case.
cannot, therefore, hold that the question raised involves a
substantial question of law as to the interpretation of	 the
Constitution within the meaning of Art. 145	(3) of	 the
Constitution. In the	 present case, applying the test laid down by this
Court,	the two conspiracies are not the same offence :	 the
Jupiter	 conspiracy came to an' end when its	 funds	were
misappropriated. The	 Empire conspiracy was hatched
subsequently, though its 'Object had an intimate connection
with the Jupiter in that the fraud of the Empire was concei.
ved and executed to cover up the fraud of the 395 Jupiter. The two conspiracies are distinct offences.	 It
cannot even be said that some of the ingredients of both the
conspiracies are the	same. The facts constituting	 the
Jupiter conspiracy are not the ingredients of the offence of
the Empire conspiracy,, but only afford a motive for	 the
latter offence.	 Motive is not an ingredient of an offence.
The proof of motive helps a Court in coming to a correct
conclusion when there is no direct evidence. Where there is
direct	evidence for implicating an accused in	an offence,
the absence of proof	 of motive is	not material.	 The
ingredients of both the offences are totally different	 and
they do not form the same offence within the meaning of Art.
20 (2) of the Constitution and, therefore, that Article	 has
no relevance to the present case. The next question is whether this appellant was a party to
the Empire conspiracy. He was a close associate	 of
Shankarlal in the political field, he being the President of
the Forward Bloc and Shankarlal being	its Vice-President.
That is how they were drawn	 together. There is	also
evidence that out of the 63,000 shares of the Jupiter	that
were purchased	 in August, 1949 by Shankarlal	Group,	4475
shares	were allotted to this appellant. It is, therefore,
clear that Accused-6	though ex facie	 he was neither a
Director nor an office-bearer in the	Jupiter, had heavy
stakes	in it.	 We have already noticed that after	 the
purchase of the said shares from and out of	the Jupiter
funds,	a bogus loan in the name of Accused-6 for a sum of
Rs. 25,15,000/- was shown in the Jupiter accounts and later
on it was substituted by other manipulations. [His Lordship
then proceeded to consider the evidence.]
x x x	 x	 x x x	 x
Both the Courts on the basis of the aforesaid evidence	came
to the conclusion that Accused-6 was 396 a member of the conspiracy and we cannot say that there is
no evidence on which the Courts could have come to	 the
conclusion to	which they did. there	are no	 permissible
grounds	 for upsetting this finding under Art. 136 of	 the
Constitution. As regards the sentence passed against this accused,	 the
Sessions Judge sentenced him to	 undergo rigorous
imprisonment for a period of 5 years, whereas he sentenced
Accused	 7, 8 and 9 to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a
period of 3 years only.	 We do not see any justification for
this distinction between the said accused in the matter of
punishment. Accused6	 had already been convicted	 and
sentenced in the Jupiter case; and on the evidence it	does
not appear that he had taken a major part in	 the Empire
conspiracy, though he was certainly in it. In	 the
circumstances, we think that a sentence of 3 years' rigorous
imprisonment would equally suffice in his	case.	 We,
therefore, modify the sentence passed on him and sentence
him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 3 years. Subject
to the	 aforesaid modification, the appeal preferred by
Caveeshar, Accused-6, is dismissed. We shall now proceed to consider the appeal preferred by
Damodar	 Swarup, Accused-7 i. e., Criminal Appeal No. 83 of
1962.	Accused-7 was the Managing Director and Chairman of
the Empire during the period of the conspiracy.	 On October
17, 1950 he was elected the Chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Empire and appointed as Managing Director
on a salary of Rs. 2,000/per month for a period of one year.
He was	 removed from the post of Managing Director at	 the
meeting	 of the Board of Directors held on March 12, 1951.
The misappropriation of the funds of the Empire, which is
the subject-matter of the conspiracy, were committed during
the period of his Managing Directorship i. e., between 397 September 20 and December 31, 1950. The prosecution case is
that Accused-7 was a party to the conspiracy,	whereas	 the
defence	 version is that he was a benamidar for	 Shankarlal,
that he took	part in the proceedings of the Board of
Directors bona fide, believing that there was nothing wrong,
that the resolutions were implemented by Accused- 10 under
the directions of Shankarlal and that the moment he had a
suspicion that there was some fraud, he took immediate	 and
effective steps not only to prevent the rot but also to
investigate and find out the real culprits. The question is
which version is true. It would be useful to have a correct appreciation of	 the
evidence to know the antecedents of Accused-7. [His Lordship
then proceeded to consider the evidence.]
x	x	x	 x	 x	 x
Learned	 counsel for Accused-7 contends that the following
two important circumstances in this case established	that
Accused-7 was	a victim of circumstances and that he	 was
innocent : (1) Two prominent publicmen of this country	with
whom the accused worked gave evidence that he was a man of
integrity; and (2) the accused took active steps to unravel
the fraud and to bring to book every guilty person; if he
was a	conspirator, the argument proceeds, it	 was incon-
ceivable that he would have taken such steps, for it would
have certainly recoiled on him.	 We shall consider these two
aspects now. [His Lordship then proceeded to consider the
evidence.]
x x	 x		x
The question is what is the	evidentiary value of	good
character of an accused in a criminal case. The relevant
provisions are	 s. 53 and the Explanation to s. 55 of	 the
evidence Act. They read : It is clear from the said provisions that the	evidence of
general reputation and general disposition is relevant in a
criminal proceeding. Under the Indian Evidence Act , unlike
in England, evidence can be given both of general character
and general disposition. Disposition means the inherent
qualities of a person; reputation means the general credit
of the person amongst the public. There is a real distinc-
tion between reputation and disposition. A	man may be
reputed	 to be a good man, but in reality he may have a	 bad
disposition. The value of evidence as regards	 disposition
of a person depends not only upon the witness's perspicacity
but also on his opportunities to observe the person as	well
as the	 said person's cleverness to hide his real traits.
But a disposition of a man may be made up of many traits,
some good and some bad, and only evidence in regard to a
particular trait with which the witness is familiar would be
of some use.Wigmore puts the proposition in the following
manner :