SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Raid on Indian crypto exchange Wazirx - how the leak from a law firm can spell trouble for WzairX
DATE: 2022-08-06
SCORE: 117
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/whi9du/raid_on_indian_crypto_exchange_wazirx_how_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

Nishith Desai Associates (NDA) is an India based law firm specializing in International Tax. It has pioneered the use of shell companies in tax haven jurisdictions that can be used to hide assets and evade taxes in India. In particular Mr. Nishith Desai the Managing Partner of the firm was the person who advised the Mauritius governement to make it into a tax haven in early 1990s. Mauritius then became a conduit for moving funds into India and subsequently many African countries, and is the preferred jurisdiction for money laundering activities in India.

Few years back there was a major leak of client confidential data at NDA. This data was eventually shared by a whistleblower with the concerned law enforcement agencies in India (ED, CBDT and Black Money Commission). The leaked data had details of how NDA had enabled its clients to create off-shore structures in tax havens to evade taxes, hide assets and launder money. NDA reacted by using its massive influence to scuttle the investigation and hound the whistleblower by abusing the judicial process to raid the whistleblower's house and seize all his electronic devices. The details of this have been published in a news story:

[India's 'Panama Papers' on shell firms, tax loopholes gather dust](https://www.dailypioneer.com/2021/page1/india---s----panama-papers----on-shell-firms--tax-loopholes-gather-dust.html)

This whistleblower happens to be an accomplished techie and is part of a network of hackers. This network avenged this humiliation and harrassment of this whistleblower by hacking the servers of the law firm and managed to get hold of more confidential data of NDA's clients. There were some posts last year regarding this on a hacker forum called Raidforum which has now been shutdown.

One of the client was WazirX. The founders of WazirX have been very close to Nishith Desai and his son Suril Desai. Both Nishith and Suril have been at the forefront to lobby for legitimizing bitcoin and other cryto assets in India. They have been championing the cause of the crypto operators (including WazirX) and NDA had even represented them in several courts. Nishith Desai sees crypto as another powerful tool for facilitating tax evasion and money laundering for his clients.

The NDA's data that the hackers got their hands on also included some incriminating documents pertaining to WazirX. These documents have made it to the agencies. The founders of WazirX have scooted off to Dubai, and premises belonging to one of the founders was raided recently by ED. The news report on that raid state:

&gt;Investigators believe Zanmai Labs -- the company that owns WazirX -- has created "a web of agreements" with companies in the US, Cayman Islands, and Singapore. The intention is to "obscure the ownership of the crypto exchange".

WazirX can expect more trouble in the coming future.