Twitter launched a privacy-protected version of its platform on March 8, which can be accessed on the Tor browser. This version is meant to bypass surveillance and censorship after Russia blocked access to Twitter in the country on March 4.

Google, a subsidiary of Alphabet Inc, announced that it will purchase cybersecurity firm Mandiant Inc for $5.4 billion in a move that could have a “ripple effect” as cloud rivals Microsoft and Amazon look to amp up their own positions in the fast-growing cybersecurity sector.

Amazon buying Catamaran Ventures’ full 76% ownership in Prione Business Services, which houses Cloudtail, was approved by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on March 9.

The Cyber Crime Police of CCS, Hyderabad arrested two persons in connection with the loan app case on March 9, according to a press release. Shabbir Alam and Umakanth Yadav ran a call centre in Bangalore called Sky Links Technology Pvt. Ltd to provide short-term loans with huge interests through their loan apps, under the sole supervision of a Chinese man named Chen Chaoping (who is currently in China), the release said.

The State Bank of India (SBI) is planning to launch a separate digital entity and will re-organise its existing mobile app, renaming it “Only Yono”.

ToneTag, sound-based proximity communication and payments service provider, launched VoiceSe UPI digital payments for feature phone users in cooperation with NSDL Payments Bank and NPCI, days after the RBI introduced UPI options for feature phones.

The Cabinet of South Korea approved a revised bill that prohibits app store operators from requiring developers to use in-app payment systems, the country’s telecommunications regulator said.

Read: South Korea sets precedent by forcing Google, Apple to allow alternative in-app payment systems

Telecom ministers from 27 EU nations have asked the European Commission to establish a cybersecurity emergency response fund to combat large-scale cyberattacks, citing recent cyber attacks against Ukraine as an example, as per an EU document.

The EU has officially banned Kremlin-backed media channels RT and Sputnik as of March 9th, in an effort to combat Russian disinformation in the wake of Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Ukrainian gig workers are collecting data for a research project financed by a US Defense Department, according to a report by Mint . Descartes Labs, a federal contractor that works with US military and intelligence agencies, engaged Premise Data Corp. to have its gig workers test the accuracy of the company’s satellite algorithms.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event