What’s the news: Over 50 percent of 103 business executives surveyed in India expressed confidence in fully mitigating cyber risks incurred since 2020, said a PwC survey on November 9, 2022.

The ‘Global Digital Trust Insights’ survey looked at how senior executives plan to improve and transform cybersecurity in their organisation in the next 12-18 months.  Aside from speaking to Indian executives holding both business and tech/security roles, the survey also included 3,522 respondents across 65 countries.

In India, the survey showed that 57 percent respondents believed they have fully mitigated cyber risks while enabling remote and hybrid work. Similarly, respondents said the same for enabling accelerated cloud adoption (61%); increased use of the internet of things (67%); increased digitisation of supply chains (52%) and back office operations (56%).

Why this matters: Cyberattacks on both public and private sectors have risen during the pandemic time. Such attacks led to huge financial losses and also compelled companies to look at consumer loyalty and protection of consumer rights. It is desirable that executives are looking at possible ways to protect their data and mechanisms and by extension, protect their customers’ privacy and data rights.

Top three security concerns: The survey talked about executives about their concerns regarding cybersecurity. The Indian respondents listed cloud-based pathways (59%) and the internet of things (58%) as top areas of concern, followed by mobile devices and software supply chains (54%).

Meanwhile, globally executives listed mobile devices (41%), email (40%) and cloud-based pathways (38%) as the top three threat pathways.

Top threat actors: More than 50 percent of the surveyed business executives listed cyber criminals (77%), insider threat (62%), hacktivists/ hacker (61%), competitor (57%) as the top threat actors. Only 41 percent respondents talked about the threat actor of ‘nation states.’

While these same concerns were cited globally, the percentages were much lower with four percent respondents selecting “none of the above” concerns.

Risks threatening organisations: When asked about risks affecting organisations, Indian respondents said they considered a catastrophic cyberattack, a resurgence of Covid-19/ a new health crisis, and a new geopolitical conflict as the top three risks.

Is India better prepared in terms of cybersecurity?

The report said that over one in four companies (27%) globally has suffered a data breach that cost USD1–20 million or more in the past three years. Despite cyberattacks continuing to cost businesses millions of dollars, fewer than 40 percent of executives surveyed globally said they have fully mitigated cybersecurity risk exposure in a number of critical areas.

Meanwhile, 89 percent of Indian business executives said their organisation’s cybersecurity team detected a cyberthreat and prevented it from affecting business operations, as against 70% globally. It also highlighted that 83 percent of Indian business executives said their organisation’s cybersecurity team has improved supply chain risk management.

Most organisations intend to increase cyber budgets

The PwC reported that over 82 percent of business executives in India foresee an increase in cybersecurity budgets in 2023. Most executives surveyed said their organisations are continuing to increase cyber budgets. As many as 69 percent of executives said that the budget increased in 2022 and 65 percent of executives plan to spend more on “cyber” in 2023.

“Increasing budgets reflect the fact that cybersecurity tops the agenda for resilience planning,” said the PwC press release.

The survey showed that a catastrophic cyberattack ranks higher than global recession or another health crisis for organisations’ resilience planning. Further, 52 percent of executives said they will drive initiatives “to improve their organisation’s cyber posture.”

Organisations keen to prevent harms from cyberattacks: “It’s not hard to see why cyber continues to move up the corporate agenda. The cost of cyber breaches goes much further than direct financial costs, according to marketing-oriented execs surveyed,” said the PwC press release.

It said that organisation have incurred a loss of customers (cited by 27%), loss of customer data (25%) and reputational or brand damage (23%) over the last three years due to a cyber breach or data privacy incident.

CFOs also talked about increasing their cyber focus, including cyber technology solutions (39%), focus on strategy and coordination with engineering/operations (37%) and upskilling and hiring of cyber talent (36%).

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event