This order shall dispose of FAO No.M-90 of 2011 filed by

Rupinder Mann - wife aggrieved against the judgment and decree dated

17.02.2011 dismissing her petition for declaring the marriage as nullity on

the ground of limitation and FAO No.M-153 of 2011 filed by Gurpartap

Singh Sidhu - husband aggrieved against the findings recorded by the

learned trial Court to the effect that he has not disclosed his eye disease and FAO No.90-M of 2011 2 there is fraud committed by him. However, for facility of reference the wife

namely Rupinder Mann hereinafter shall be called as 'the appellant' and the

husband namely Gurpartap Singh Sidhu hereinafter shall be called as 'the

respondent'. Brief facts, which have led to the filing of the present appeals,

are that the appellant, who is a Non-Resident Indian married respondent on

30.12.2001 by way of Anand Karaj at Chandigarh. Such marriage was

registered as per the provisions of Section 8 of the Hindu Marriage Act,

1955 (for short 'the Act'). The parties cohabited and resided at different

places of India including Mohali and Bathinda. A female child namely

Jasleen Sidhu was born out of the wedlock on 16.12.2004. It is averred by

the appellant in her petition for declaring the marriage as nullity that the

respondent has not disclosed his correct education as he has not completed

his medical education though he has projected himself to be a Doctor. The

respondent could not see correctly having a retina detachment and long

history of eye problem, which was never disclosed to her. It is further

averred that the risk is so high that he can go blind. It is averred that the

consent of the appellant was obtained by the respondent by playing fraud

upon her and by not disclosing the material facts and circumstances as to his

educational qualification as well as his retina detachment problem. The

relevant paragraphs from the plaint read as under: The respondent filed written statement through his attorney i.e.

his father. In the written statement it is averred that the appellant has been

freely meeting the respondent and was fully aware about the personality of

the respondent. It was denied that there is any concealment of any fact by

the respondent from the appellant and her parents. It is pointed out that in

bio-data everything was given in detail and during meetings before marriage

everything was disclosed and consented by the appellant. In reply to para 7,

the respondent averred that the marriage was performed after full

satisfaction of the appellant as well as her parents. It was denied that the

appellant was thrown out of the matrimonial home, but it was alleged that

the appellant herself deserted the respondent without any reasonable cause

and the respondent immediately filed the divorce complaint in the Court of

Common Pleas of Comberland Country Pennsylvania, USA which is

pending adjudication since March, 2006. It is alleged that the appellant

lodged false FIR on 16.04.2006 under Section 406 & 498 IPC though she is FAO No.90-M of 2011 4 aware that the respondent is residing in USA. The respondent denied that

any fraud has been played by him. The relevant paragraphs from the written

statement are as under: It may be stated that the respondent sought to amend the

written statement so as to take a specific plea that the petition is barred by

limitation. But such application was declined on 02.12.2010 for the reason

that plea with regard to the limitation can be taken care of by the Court. From the pleadings of the parties, the learned trial Court

framed the following issues: OPP FAO No.90-M of 2011 5 2. Relief. During the course of evidence, apart from examining her father

namely Col. Sukhdev Singh Mann as PW-2, the appellant appeared into

witness-box as PW-1 and tendered into evidence her affidavit Ex.P-1

alongwith documents Exs.P-2 to P-5. In her affidavit Ex.P-1, she stated to

the following effect: In her cross-examination, she admitted that the marriage was

performed in Hotel Mountview, Sector-10, Chandigarh and at that time her

parents and other relations also saw the respondent, but could not point out

any defect in the appearance of respondent. She further stated that after

marriage they went to Bathinda and cohabited together and saw the face of

the respondent properly, but did not point out any defect in his appearance.

It is admitted by her that the respondent joined her in USA in March, 2003

and lived with her at her residence for about two months. She admitted that

the respondent has filed divorce petition against her in the Court at

Pennsylvania and that she has not filed any complaint up to 21.02.2006 in

USA. She denied the suggestion that she levelled false allegations against

the respondent by pointing defect in his eyes, whereas there is no such

defect of any kind. She deposed to the following effect: The appellant has also produced on record the bio-data (Ex.P5)

sent by the respondent in pursuance of the matrimonial advertisement

published on behalf of the appellant. The said bio-data reads as under: Build - Well built athletic body

 Complexion - Very Fair

 Date of Birth - 4 Jan., 1973. I am a computer engineer from Bangalore University. I completed
 my Engineering in 1996. After finishing Engineering I was not very happy
 with the job prospects relating to my engineering field therefore, I took my
 exams for entrance into a medical college and very successfully got
 admission in Medical College, Patiala. I shall be starting my internship in
 January, 2002. I am a 28 year old Jat - Sikh from Bathinda. I am the only child of
 my parents. My father is a very well known lawyer practicing in Bathinda.
 My mother is a Housewise. We hail from a very renowned, high status
 landlord family belonging to Village Abulkhurana, Tehsil Malout. We
 own about 320 acres of agricultural land. We also own urban property in
 Bathinda including a house and several residential plots."

 On the other hand, the respondent did not appear as a witness,

but examined his father Baldev Singh Sidhu, as DW-1, who has tendered

into evidence his affidavit Ex.DA along with copy of Income Tax Return

Mark-D. In his affidavit Ex.DA, he averred to the following effect: It was in the cross-examination, the attorney of the respondent

i.e. DW-1 Baldev Singh admitted that the respondent suffers from eye

ailment and his retina got detached while he was in school as he had fallen.

The Doctor advised him not to lift any weight. The relevant extract from

the cross-examination reads as under: The documents produced by the parties include the testimony

of respondent before a Court Reporter-Notary Public authorized to

administer oaths to take depositions in the trial of causes of action in

Pennsylvania transcribed into 135 pages of written testimony as Ex.P-3.

The correctness of such statement is not disputed by the respondent as is

evident from the cross-examination, reproduced above. A perusal of the

said statement Ex.P-3, shows that the respondent has admitted that he is

suffering from glaucoma. He has explained to mean that inside the eye, the

pressure is more than what it should be in normal eye. Such pressure

compresses the nerve cells at the back of the eye and slowly kills them and

this is basically an irreversible disease. Still further, in respect of another

question, the respondent has admitted that he has a problem with eyes, FAO No.90-M of 2011 9 which is not just localized to glaucoma alone. He has a long history of eye

problem. He further stated that he has lost sight in his left eye and that was

because of retinal detachment and he has ongoing issues with his right eye

as well. He has a history of spontaneous retinal detachments. He has

admitted that he has grown up with this disease since the time he was six

years of age. He admitted that none of the surgery has taken place in United

States. In respect of another question, the respondent admitted that there

was no discussion with the parents of the parties regarding the problems of

the respondent principally his eyes. The other evidence includes a certified copy of the statement of

the father of the appellant recorded in a criminal case for an offence

punishable under Sections 406 & 498-A IPC Ex.RY and some of the

photographs produced on record as Mark A-1 to A-5 as well as an affidavit

of consent to the divorce by the appellant Mark-RX dated 01.07.2008

submitted before the authorities in USA. After considering the entire evidence led by the parties, the

learned trial Court did not find any merit in the grounds for seeking

declaration of marriage as nullity with regard to the concealment of fact

regarding educational qualifications and the property, whereas dismissed the

petition holding the same to be barred by limitation in respect of

concealment of material particulars in respect of eye problem of the

respondent, inter alia, for the reason that the appellant came to know about

the eye disease of the respondent on 16.11.2005 as per the averments made

in Para 7 of the petition, whereas the petition for declaring the marriage as

nullity was filed on 03.01.2008. Such petition has been filed after one year

of discovery of fraud and therefore, the same is barred by limitation. The FAO No.90-M of 2011 10 learned trial Court also returned the finding that it cannot be believed that

the appellant could not locate the eye problem of the respondent. The

relevant finding reads as under: Before this Court, learned counsel for the appellant has not

disputed the findings recorded by the learned trial Court in respect of lack

of proper disclosure of educational qualification and the property, but only

disputed the findings recorded by the learned trial Court to the effect that

the petition is barred by limitation. Learned counsel for the appellant has

relied upon Man Kaur (Dead) by LRs Vs. Hartar Singh Sangha 2010(10)

SCC 512 to contend that the respondent filed written statement through his

Attorney and has not appeared as a witness. It is contended that the

evidence in respect of physical condition of the respondent could be

deposed only by the respondent, as it was the facts within his personal

knowledge and could not be deposed by his father as Attorney. It is FAO No.90-M of 2011 11 contended that even as per the testimony of the father of the respondent, it

stands proved that the fact regarding eye problem of the respondent were

concealed from the appellant and her consent was obtained by concealing

and misstating the facts. It is contended that such fact came to be known to

the appellant only on the deposition of the respondent in August 2007. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent

supported the findings recorded by the learned trial Court that the petition is

barred by limitation, as the same has been filed after six years of marriage

and that the eye problem was not such a problem, which could not be found

out by the appellant soon after the marriage during the period the appellant

was staying with the respondent. It is argued that the entire story of alleged

fraud having come to her notice either in the year 2005 or 2007 is a made up

story unbelievable, unnatural and is not worthy of any credence. It is argued

that the appellant cannot be permitted to travel beyond her pleadings and as

per Para 7 of the plaint, she came to know about the alleged fraud on

16.11.2005. Therefore, presentation of the petition on 03.01.2008 is beyond

the period of limitation. We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length. The

only issue required to be examined is; as to when the alleged fraud i.e.

defect in the eye leading to threat of blindness consequent to retina

detachment came to the notice of the appellant i.e. whether at any time prior

to 09.05.2007/ 30.08.2007, as averred by the appellant or it was known to

the appellant on the date of marriage or soon thereafter during the period,

the appellant remained with the respondent before the parties separated and

living separately on 16.11.2005. We may notice that no argument has been addressed on the

question that such non-disclosure would, in fact, not amount to fraud. The

entire controversy is discovery of fraud at the time of marriage or later and

that the petition has been filed after one year of discovery of such fraud. The respondent has filed written statement signed by his

Attorney i.e. his father. Such written statement is to be treated as evidence

in terms of Section 20(2) of the Act. It is specifically pleaded therein, as

reproduced above, that respondent was not having eye problem. He has also

stated that he has got driving license from USA authorities, which can only

be issued on the basis of medical evidence. The issuance of driving license

by USA Government falsifies all the allegations levelled by the appellant.

Such was the evidence by way of an affidavit Ex.DA, wherein it is averred

that respondent has not concealed any aspect of his health and personality

and there was no defect of any kind in the eyes of the respondent. The

attorney of the respondent has not disputed the deposition of the respondent

in the divorce proceedings before the U.S. authorities, wherein he has

admitted that he has got problem of retina detachment and that his problem

in eye occurred, when he was of the age of six years. In fact, the attorney in

his cross-examination has admitted the problem of the respondent in the eye

since the age of 6 years. Therefore, the evidence led by the respondent is at

complete variance with the pleadings raised and the evidence led in

affirmative. It may be noticed that evidence in respect of physical fitness of

the respondent or in other words, the problem of eye could be deposed by

the respondent himself, being the facts in his personal knowledge. Even the

fact, whether the appellant was aware of such eye problem after his FAO No.90-M of 2011 13 marriage with her could be deposed only by him. The discovery of fraud at

the time of marriage or soon thereafter or at any point of time prior to

09.05.2007 could have been deposed by the respondent himself. But the

respondent has not appeared as a witness. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Man Kaur 's case (supra) has laid down the principles, when a statement of

attorney can be read into evidence on behalf of the principal. It has been

held to the following effect: ....Where all the affairs of a party are completely managed,
 transacted and looked after by an attorney (who may happen to be a
 close family member), it may be possible to accept the evidence of
 such attorney even with reference to bona fides or 'readiness and
 willingness'. Examples of such attorney holders are a husband/wife
 exclusively managing the affairs of his/her spouse, a son/daughter FAO No.90-M of 2011 14 exclusively managing the affairs of an old and infirm parent, a
 father/mother exclusively managing the affairs of a son/daughter
 living abroad." In view of the aforesaid judgment, the statement of the attorney

in respect of matters, which are in the personal knowledge of the principal,

cannot be admitted into evidence. The evidence of the attorney does not fall

in the exceptions carved out in the aforesaid judgment. Therefore, the

evidence of the attorney on behalf of the respondent in respect of his health,

non-disclosure of material facts and the knowledge of the appellant of such

facts, is not admissible into evidence. Faced with this situation, learned counsel for the respondent

has vehemently argued that from the conduct of the appellant itself, it is

evident that she was aware of eye problem of the respondent. He has

referred to the photographs Mark A-1 to A-5 in support of his contention.

Relying upon such photographs, it is contended by Mr. Agnihotri that it can

be made out that eye of the respondent is not proper. Reference is also

made to the statement of father of the appellant Ex.RY in support of such

contention. Mr. Agnihotri has also argued that since such documents are on

record, therefore, this Court should take judicial notice of such photographs

and the statement. We find that the argument raised by the learned counsel for the

respondent is wholly misconceived. The photographs have not been proved

in accordance with law. Such photographs have been tendered into evidence

on 17.08.2009 by the learned counsel for the respondent vide his separate

statement. The person, who has taken the photographs, has not been

examined, nor the negatives of such photographs, are produced on record. FAO No.90-M of 2011 15 Such photographs are not put to the appellant, when she stepped into

witness box. There is no cross-examination conducted on the appellant to

the effect that the abnormality in the eye of the respondent was noticed by

her at any point of time. The entire cross-examination is silent in respect of

time and period as to when the abnormality or any problem of eye was

noticed by the appellant. In fact, the appellant stated that she saw the face

of the respondent properly, when they went to Bathinda after marriage, but

did not point out any defect in his appearance. Therefore, the photographs

on which learned counsel for the respondent wanted this Court to read into

evidence is misconceived. No judicial notice on such photographs can be

taken, as such photographs are not admissible into evidence nor any

presumption of correctness of such photographs in terms of Section 114 of

the Evidence Act, is available. It is well-settled that physical availability of

a document on record does not mean that such document is admissible in

evidence and can be relied upon. In fact, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Narbada Devi Gupta Vs. Birendra Kumar Jaiswal and another (2003)8

SCC 745 has held that even if a document is exhibited, it cannot be read

into evidence, unless it is proved in accordance with law. Therefore, mere

physical availability of photographs on record without proof thereof cannot

be read into evidence. It observed as under: Similarly, the statement Ex.RY is the statement recorded in

proceedings for an offence under Sections 406 & 498-A IPC. Such

statement has not been put to PW-2 Col. Sukhdev Singh Mann, father of the

appellant, when he appeared as a witness. The previous statement cannot be

read into evidence unless the same is put to the witness and the witness is

confronted with the same. Therefore, such statement is also not relevant for

any purpose. The learned trial Court has dismissed the petition as barred by

limitation in view of Section 12(2)(a) of the Act, which reads as under: The learned trial Court has found that as per the facts pleaded,

the appellant came to know about the eye problem of the respondent on

16.11.2005, whereas the petition was filed on 03.01.2008 and, thus, has

been presented after one year as contemplated by Section 12(2)(a) of the

Act. We are of the opinion that the approach of the trial Court suffers from

patent illegality. The pleadings have to be read as a whole and a line cannot

be picked up out of the context to draw an inference against the person. FAO No.90-M of 2011 17 This is so held in Udhav Singh Vs. Madhav Rao Scindia AIR 1976 SC 744

and Popat and Kotecha Vs. Property State Bank of India Staff Association

2005(7) SCC 510. In Udhav Singh 's case (supra), it was observed as

under: Though a cursory reading of Para 7, as reproduced above,

would show that the facts in respect of respondent came to light of

appellant, when she was thrown out of the matrimonial home on

16.11.2005. But such para has to be read along with para 8 of the plaint,

when the appellant is asserting that it was during the pendency of the

proceedings before the authorities in USA, she came to know about the

physical status of eye sight of the respondent. After filing of the plaint, the

appellant averred in his evidence giving detailed facts in respect of

discovery of fraud. There is no cross-examination in respect of discovery of

fraud any time prior to 09.05.2007. In fact, the entire cross-examination is

on the lines that the eye sight of the respondent is proper. This is evident

from the suggestions given on 21.11.2008, as reproduced above. The

appellant has not been suggested that she became aware of the eye problem

of the respondent at any point during the parties resided together. In fact, FAO No.90-M of 2011 18 the father of the appellant as PW-2 when cross-examined on 15.01.2009

was given suggestion that the respondent has got no eye defect. On the other hand, the attorney of the respondent in his

affidavit dated 11.04.2009 asserted the physical fitness of the respondent at

all times. It is only in the cross-examination on 29.7.2009, he had to admit

that retina of the respondent got detached while he was in school and

Doctor advised him not to lift any weight. He has admitted the proceedings

recorded by the authorities in U.S., wherein there is categorical admission of

the respondent about his problem in eye. Therefore, the pleadings and

evidence led by the respondent is contrary to the arguments sought to be

raised in appeal. Still further, we are of the opinion that the findings recorded by

the trial Court in para 30 are purely on surmises and conjectures. The trial

Court disbelieved that the appellant could not locate the eye problem. Such

finding could not have been returned without any evidence. The trial Court

records that the appellant is a Dentist and, therefore, could very well

visualize the retinal detachment of left eye. The retinal detachment is not a

physical condition which can be made out from naked eye by a third person.

It requires an expert opinion of ophthalmologist as to whether the person

has got retinal detachment. It is not an apparent physical condition, but a

medical condition, which can be made out only by experts. The trial Court has presumed that the respondent must be

consuming medicines or using eye drops and it is unbelievable that the

appellant-wife was not aware about all these things. In the absence of any

evidence and in the absence of evidence of the respondent, who was the best FAO No.90-M of 2011 19 witness to depose, such findings are nothing, but based upon assumptions

and presumptions and cannot be made basis for returning findings against

the appellant. In view of the above, we find that the findings recorded by the

learned trial Court suffer from patent illegality and irregularity and cannot

be sustained in law. We set aside the judgment and decree passed by the

learned trial Court dismissing the petition for the reason that the petition has

been filed after one year of discovery of fraud. Consequently, we allow FAO No.M-90 of 2011 filed by the

appellant-wife and declare the marriage to be a nullity having been

solemnized by fraudulently concealing the physical condition of the

respondent. However, FAO No.M-153 of 2011 filed by the respondent-

husband stands dismissed.