1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide the present suit under
 S. 134 & 135, 27 & 29 of trademarks Act, 1999 and Sec.
 51 & 55 of the Copyright Act, 1957 for permanent
 injunction restraining infringement of trade mark and copy
 right, passing off, delivery up and damages/rendition of
 accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the defendants. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially, the
 present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before the
 concerned Court of Ld. Additional District Judge, Patiala
 House Courts, New Delhi. During the course of trial, the
 case was received by this Court by way of transfer, on
 01-09-2022 in view of Order No.17016-17031/Judl./NDD/
 PHC/2022 dated 05-7-2022 of the then Ld. Principal
 District & Sessions Judge, New Delhi District, PHC and
 consequent upon the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case titled as 'Vishal Pipes Limited v. Bhavya
 Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD No.1/2022 & CM APPLs No.
 12-14/2022 dated 03-6-2022. 3. It may also be noted that initially, the suit was filed against
 the defendants, who were arrayed as 'Ashok Kumar' on
 the basis of 'John Doe' principle as applicable in India and
 subsequently, the name of the defendants namely Hardev
 Group of Shoes and N. K. Footwear were impleaded, vide CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 2 of 30 -3- order dated 05-08-2021 and Ashok Kumar (John Doe) was
 deleted. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 4. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, is as
 under:- The detailed history of the plaintiff has been
 provided in Para no.4 of the plaint. 4.2 It is stated that the plaintiff has been engaged in the
 business of manufacturing, marketing, selling and
 trading goods viz. Shoes, clothings, sporting goods,
 sportswear and other allied and cognate goods
 [hereinafter referred to as the 'said goods and
 business']. 4.3 It is further stated that the plaintiff is the owner and
 proprietor of the trademarks CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 3 of 30 -4- and various ASICS formative trademarks/labels
 [hereinafter collectively referred to as the 'said
 trademarks/labels ASICS'] in relation to its said
 goods and business. The details of registrations of
 said trade marks/labels in India under the provisions
 of Trade Marks Act, 1999 have been provided in
 Para no. 6 of the plaint. 4.4 It is further claimed that the art works involved in
 the plaintiff's said trademarks/labels are original
 artistic works within the meaning of Indian
 Copyright Act, 1957 and the plaintiff is the owner
 and proprietor thereof. The plaintiff has been
 dealing with the said Copyrights in the course of
 trade in relation to its said goods and business
 inter-alia within the meaning of Section 14 of the
 Copyright Act. The said trademarks of the plaintiff
 are enforceable within the ambit of the Copyright
 Act 1957, as well as by virtue of India's
 membership to the Berne Convention, the Universal
 Copyright Convention and the International
 Copyright Order 1991. 4.5 Thus, it is claimed that ever since its inception, the
 plaintiff has been honestly & bonafidely, CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 4 of 30 -5- continuously, commercially, openly and to the
 exclusion of others, uninterruptedly and in the
 course of trade and as proprietor thereof, using its
 said trademarks in relation to its said goods and
 business and carrying on its said goods and business
 thereunder and has built up a worldwide and
 globally valuable trade, goodwill and reputation
 thereunder and has acquired proprietary rights
 therein. 4.6 It is also stated that the plaintiff has also got domain
 name registered in its favour, viz: www.asics.com
 [hereinafter referred to as the "said domain
 name/website"]. 4.7 Further, it is also claimed that the plaintiff has
 regularly and continuously been promoting its said
 trademarks/logos and goods and business thereunder
 through extensive advertisements, publicities,
 promotions and marketing and has been making
 research and the plaintiff has been spending
 enormous amounts of money, efforts, skills and time
 thereon. The plaintiff has been doing so through
 various means and modes including through the
 visual, print, electronic media, in leading
 newspapers, trade literature, magazines, word of
 mouth, over the internet etc., and all of which have
 tremendous reach, availability and circulation world
 over including in India. 4.8 It is further averred that the plaintiff operates around
 the globe and directly or indirectly employs nearly
 one million people through suppliers, shippers,
 retailers and other service providers. At the end of
 the fiscal year 2019, the plaintiff's revenue reached
 up to 378,05,000 millions of Yen. Further, the
 plaintiff since the adoption [1949] maintains the
 highest standard of quality in relation to its goods
 and business under the said Trade Mark/labels/Trade
 Name. The plaintiff invests heavily in R&D and its
 products are known for their highest standards of
 quality, safety, innovation and reliability and
 therefore, there is an ever-increasing demand of its
 goods. 4.9 It is stated that the plaintiff's goods have been
 available in India through various exclusive stores,
 dealers, distributors, and through its website
 www.asics.com as well as through various online
 marketplaces. 4.10 Hence, it is stated that on account of its good quality
 and standards of manufacturing and untiring efforts
 in advertising and marketing, the products of the
 plaintiff under the said trade marks/ labels have
 become distinctive and have acquired secondary
 significance with the plaintiff and plaintiff's said
 goods and business thereunder. Further, the
 purchasing public, the trade and industry at large CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 6 of 30 -7- worldwide and in India identify, distinguish and
 associate the plaintiff's said goods under the said
 trademarks/labels with the plaintiff and from the
 plaintiff's source and origin alone and regard them
 as high quality products exclusively as that of the
 plaintiff. It is further claimed that the said
 trademarks/ logos are well known trademarks within
 the meaning of Section 2 (1) (zg) of the Trade
 Marks Act and have acquired enviable reputation
 and goodwill across the globe including India. 4.11 It is further stated that the plaintiff's said trademarks
 as well as the goods & businesses thereunder have a
 very strong presence in India and are commercially
 available in India including within the jurisdiction
 of this Court. In addition thereto, the plaintiff enjoys
 trans-border reputation and users of its said
 trademarks in relation to its said goods and business
 as extending into India. 4.12 Thus, it is stated that in view of the plaintiff's
 proprietary rights both under statutory and common
 law in its said trademarks, its goodwill & reputation,
 and its copyrights, the plaintiff has the exclusive
 right to the use thereof and nobody can be permitted
 to use the same or any other deceptively similar
 trademarks/labels in any manner whatsoever in
 relation to any specification of goods without the
 leave and license of the plaintiff. 4.13 It is alleged that the defendants are engaged in
 manufacturing and marketing, sale, use, trading of
 footwear [hereinafter referred to as the 'impugned
 goods and business'] and have adopted and started
 using impugned trade marks / labels

 [Hereinafter referred to as the said impugned
 trademarks/ labels ASICS'] in relation to their
 impugned goods. 4.14 It is stated that in the 2 nd week of June 2021, the
 plaintiff came across impugned goods of the
 defendants in the markets of New Delhi Area. Being
 aggrieved thereby, the plaintiff caused an inquiry in
 the market, which revealed that the defendants had
 just about in the Month of June, 202l" adopted and
 started using and soliciting the impugned Trade
 Marks/Labels in relation to their impugned goods in
 New Delhi Area. The plaintiff also learnt that the
 defendants are carrying on its impugned activities CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 8 of 30 -9- under the impugned Trade Marks/Labels in a
 clandestine and surreptitious manner and that too
 without issuing formal sale bills. The defendants are
 not only making the retail sales but are also
 supplying the impugned goods bearing the
 impugned Trade Marks /Labels to various other
 dealers/shopkeepers/retailers including in New
 Delhi Area, who are making clandestine and
 surreptitious sales thereof to the unscrupulous
 traders and manufacturers of the counterfeit
 products of the plaintiff under the said Trade
 Mark/Label in the markets of New Delhi Area viz.
 Connaught Place, Gole Market, Vasant Vihar, Lodhi
 Colony, Sarojni Nagar, Bengali Market, Naraina,
 Madir Marg, etc. and adjoining areas, etc.

 4.15 Thus, it is alleged that the defendants have
 dishonestly and malafidely adopted the impugned
 trademarks/ labels ASICS which are visually,
 structurally identical and/or deceptively and
 confusingly similar to the registered trademarks/
 logos of plaintiff ASICS in relation to same goods
 and business, thereby causing confusion and
 deception amongst the unwary purchasing public
 and traders by making them believe that the origin
 of those goods is the plaintiff company. It has been
 averred that by doing so, the defendants are not only
 damaging the reputation and goodwill of the CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 9 of 30 -10- plaintiff company by passing off their substandard
 products as that of the plaintiff company, but, are
 also causing financial loss to the plaintiff company
 by reaping unfair advantage of the repute and
 distinctive character of the trademarks of the
 plaintiff company. 5. On these grounds, the plaintiff has filed the present
 suit against the defendants praying therein, inter alia,
 that decree of permanent injunction may be passed
 restraining the defendants by themselves as also
 through their individual proprietors/ partners, agents,
 representatives, distributors, assigns, heirs,
 successors, stockists and all others acting for and on
 their behalf from manufacturing, marketing, using,
 selling, soliciting, importing, exporting, displaying,
 distributing, advertising or in any manner dealing in
 or soliciting or selling/ soliciting through online
 platforms or online websites or using the impugned
 trade mark/ label ASICS or any other word mark/
 trade marks/ label, which may be identical with and/
 or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's said trade
 marks / label ASICS in relation to similar goods,
 thereby infringing plaintiff's registered trademarks,
 copyright and passing off their products as that of the
 plaintiff. 6. The suit was accompanied with applications - one under
 Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 CPC and another under Order CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 10 of 30 -11- XXVI Rule 9 CPC seeking an ex parte ad interim
 injunction and appointment of local commissioner
 respectively. After hearing the counsel of plaintiff, the said
 applications were allowed, vide common order dated
 28-6-2021 passed by Ld. Predecessor of the Court, thereby
 granting an ex parte ad interim injunction in favour of the
 plaintiff and Local Commissioner was also appointed to
 visit and search the premises of the defendants with certain
 conditions. 7. In pursuant to the said order, Ld. Local Commissioner
 executed the commission and filed detailed report on
 record. As per same, infringed goods were found from the
 premises of the defendant no.2 as well. As already noted
 above, after execution of the local commission, the
 defendants, as named above, were substituted in place of
 previous defendants 'Ashok Kumar'. 8. Summons of the suit and notice of accompanying
 applications were issued to the defendants in terms of
 relevant order. 9. After being served with the summons of the suit, defendants
 put their appearance through counsel. Defendant no.1 has
 filed written statement on record. 10. At this juncture, it may be noted that the present case was
 received by this Court on 01-09-2022, as already noted
 above in Para no.2, and an application under Order VI Rule
 17 CPC was moved on behalf of the plaintiff seeking CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 11 of 30 -12- amendment of the suit, thereby enhancing specified value to
 be above Rs.3 lacs, so as to bring the present suit within the
 ambit of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , in view of the
 directions of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of ' Vishal
 Pipes Limited v. Bhavya Pipe Industry ', reported as 2022
 SCC OnLine Del 1730. The aforesaid application was
 allowed and the defendants were granted 30 days' time to
 file amended written statement, vide order dated 03-1-2023
 passed by Ld. Predecessor of this Court. 11. It may be noted that the ex parte ad interim order was made
 absolute till the pendency of the suit while disposing off the
 application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC , vide
 order dated 11-9-2023 passed by Ld. Predecessor of this
 Court. 12. In view of above, the position as emerges on record is
 that no written statement either to the original plaint or
 even to the amended plaint, is filed by defendant no.2. 13. The defendant no.2 was proceeded against ex parte, vide
 order dated 14-3-2024. 14. Vide order dated 14-3-2024, the following issues were
 framed from the pleadings of the parties:- She led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit
 [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint
 and has relied on the following documents:- Srl. Document/Particulars Exhibit(s)
 No. 11. Affidavit under Order XI Rule 6 (3) Ex.PW1/B CPC for electronic record documents 16. On statement of counsel of plaintiff, the
 ex parte evidence of the plaintiff was closed on
 29-11-2024. After the closure of PE, final arguments
 were heard. 17. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to
 give up prayers/reliefs as prayed in Prayer Clause Nos.
 34(b) and 34(d) of the amended plaint regarding
 restraining the defendants from disposing off or dealing
 with their assets and rendition of accounts of
 profits respectively. Accordingly, the plaintiff was
 permitted to give up the said reliefs, vide order dated
 29-11-2024. 18. I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have also gone through the material available on
 record including the plaint and the evidence,
 oral as well as documentary, led from the side of the
 plaintiff. ISSUE WISE FINDINGS 19. My issue wise findings are as under:- 20. Firstly I shall take up the issue no. (i), which is reproduced
 hereunder:- 21. The onus to prove aforesaid issue was placed upon
 plaintiff. In order to discharge its burden, the plaintiff
 has examined sole witness i.e. its AR namely Ms.
 Meena Bansal as PW-1, as already noted above. She
 tendered her evidence by way of affidavit, therein
 deposing on identical lines of the averments made in the
 plaint and has proved the relevant documents, which are
 already noted above. 22. As already noted above, the suit qua defendant no.1 has
 already been decreed in terms of Mediation Settlement
 (Ex.PX) wherein the defendant no.1 has agreed, inter
 alia, not to use the impugned trade marks/ labels "ASICS''
 or any other trade mark/ word mark/ label, in any form and
 manner which is identical and / or confusingly or
 deceptively similar to plaintiff's registered trade marks/
 labels "ASICS'' for any goods and services thereby
 infringing plaintiff's registered trade mark, copy right and
 passing off its goods and business as that of the goods and CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 16 of 30 -17- business of the plaintiff. Further, in terms of said
 Mediation Settlement, the defendant no.1 also paid
 Rs.35,000/- to the plaintiff through its counsel towards
 costs/ damages. 23. Thus, the suit survives qua defendant no.2 only. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF 24. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that
 the entire testimony of PW-1 has remained unchallenged
 and un-rebutted from the side of defendant no.2 and
 therefore, the plaintiff company is entitled to the decree, as
 prayed for. In support of his submissions, Counsel also
 relied upon the documents [Ex.PW1/1 to Ex.PW1/10 and
 Ex.PW1/B.]. 25. Further, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel of the plaintiff that
 the trademarks/ labels ASICS and its formative
 trademarks/ logos /labels are well known trademarks of the
 plaintiff and are registered under various classes of the
 trademarks Rules 2002 in India, which are valid and
 subsisting in favour of the plaintiff company till date.
 Further, the art works involved in the trademarks/ labels
 are original artistic work and the plaintiff holds copyright
 therein. Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff spends
 huge amount of money in advertising and promotion of its
 products and said Marks enjoy a huge goodwill and
 reputation in business community and public in general
 in India. 26. Further, Ld. Counsel of the plaintiff also relied upon the
 report of Local Commissioner and submitted that Ld. Local
 Commissioner, while executing the commission in terms of
 the orders passed by this Court, had found certain infringed
 goods from the premises of defendant no. 2, which
 establishes that the said defendant was also involved in the
 illegal activities. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff submitted that Local
 Commissioner's Report can be read in evidence in terms of
 Order XXVI Rule 10(2) CPC and for this purpose, he
 also relied upon judgment of our own Hon'ble High Court
 in case titled as "M L Brother LLP v. Mahesh Kumar
 Bhrualal Tanna" [CS (COMM) 126/2022, decided on
 12th May, 2022]. 27. Further, he submitted that the use of impugned trade
 marks/ labels ASICS as adopted by defendant no.2, are
 identical and/ or confusingly or deceptively similar to
 the registered trademarks/ labels of the plaintiff ASICS,
 which not only amounts to committing fraud upon the
 plaintiff company but also upon the unwary general
 public as the goods of the defendant no.2 is of
 substandard quality, due to which the plaintiff company
 suffers huge monetary loss and its goodwill and
 reputation is also at stake and therefore, he urged that
 the suit may be decreed in favour of the plaintiff and
 against the defendant no.2, thereby restraining the said
 defendant and all others acting for and on their behalf
 from using the said impugned trade-marks/ labels. ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION 28. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of
 the plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant
 material available on records. JURISDICTION 29. With respect to jurisdiction of this Court, it is submitted by
 Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the defendant no.2 is also
 committing the impugned acts of infringement and passing
 off in the markets of New Delhi viz. Connaught Place,
 Gole Market, Vasant Vihar, Lodhi Colony etc. by selling,
 soliciting, trade distribution and marketing networks in
 relation to the impugned goods under the impugned trade
 marks/ labels and thus, the plaintiff's above said
 proprietary rights are being prejudicially affected or likely
 to be so affected in New Delhi. It is stated that the
 dynamic effect of the defendant no.2's activities is being
 felt in New Delhi and the plaintiff has strong and credible
 apprehension that the defendant no. 2's impugned products
 are being sold, solicited and / or will be imminently sold,
 solicited within the area of New Delhi and thus, whole or
 part of cause of action has arisen within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court under S. 20 of CPC. 30. Besides that, it is further argued by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff
 that the plaintiff is also carrying on its said goods and
 business under its said trademarks/ labels in New Delhi as
 the plaintiff has exclusive store C-13, Ground Floor, Inner CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 19 of 30 -20- Circle Connaught Place, New Delhi. Further, the plaintiff
 is also getting its said goods distributed under trade mark /
 label through its website / domain name www.asics.com,
 which is stated to be interactive in nature, and goods of the
 plaintiff under the said trade mark/ labels are also available
 and accessible through the online marketplace like
 Amazon which are freely accessible and goods can be
 delivered, sold and purchased from any place of the
 country including the places situated within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, it is contended that this
 Court has also territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try
 the present suit within the meaning of S. 134 (2) of the
 trademarks Act, 1999 and also under S. 62(2) of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. 31. The PW1 has categorically deposed in her affidavit in
 evidence on identical lines of the averments made in the
 plaint. PW-1 has proved screenshot from online e-
 commerce website such as Amazon and Flipkart
 Ex.PW-1/7, according to which, it is duly shown that the
 goods of the plaintiff under the said trade marks/ labels are
 available for purchase online. PW-1 has also proved
 screenshot of its website i.e. www.asics.com as Ex.PW1/8
 which show that the plaintiff has its exclusive store at
 Connaught Place, New Delhi, which falls within territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. The aforesaid website is stated to
 be interactive in nature and through which, the goods can
 be sold, purchased and delivered at any place throughout CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 20 of 30 -21- length and breadth of the country including the places
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. 32. The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted as the defendant no.2 has neither filed
 written statement in conformity with the Commercial
 Courts Act, 2015 , nor has chosen to cross-examine PW1. 33. Therefore, in view of the law as laid down by Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court in cases titled as " Banyan Holding (P)
 Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy & Anr. " reported as
 2009 SCC OnLine Del 3780; " World Wrestling
 Entertainment, Inc. v. Reshma Collection & Ors. " 34. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of
 the facts and circumstances of the case and in view of
 the above cited judgments and keeping in view the fact
 that evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered opinion
 that at least part cause of action has arisen within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court and therefore, this CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 21 of 30 -22- Court has territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain the
 suit. 35. Now coming to issue of permanent injunction. 36. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trademarks, to quote:- 37. It is now well settled law, as also laid down by our own
 Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace &
 Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC
 63 (Del) that an infringement of trademarks is to be seen
 from the perspective of a layman, to quote:- 40. In this case, the plaintiff has relied upon and has filed
 Trademark Registration Certificates and status thereof as
 appearing on the official websites of the Trademark
 Registry in India, which are duly proved by PW-1 as
 Ex.PW1/4 (Colly.). As per these documents, it is duly
 shown that trademarks/ labels ASICS, ASICS tiger and CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 25 of 30 -26- Onitsuka Tiger (label) are registered as word marks/
 device mark / label mark etc. in favour of the plaintiff
 since long under various classes. Further, during the course
 of final arguments, counsel of plaintiff has stated at Bar
 that the registration of trade marks/ word marks/ device
 marks/logos stand renewed and are valid till date. 41. As already noted above, the defendant no.2 failed to file
 written statement either to the original plaint or to the
 amended plaint to contest the suit. He also stopped
 appearing before the Court and consequently, he was
 proceeded against as ex parte. Further, either defendant
 and /or his counsel did not turn up to cross-examine PW1.
 Therefore, the entire testimony of PW-1 has gone
 unrebutted, uncontroverted and unchallenged and thus, the
 case of the plaintiff stood proved against the defendant
 no.2 on the basis of preponderance of probability. It is duly
 established on record that the trademarks/ labels ASICS
 are duly registered in favour of the plaintiff and also that
 the same are valid and subsisting as on date in favour of
 the plaintiff. 42. Further, the Local Commissioner had also found infringed
 goods bearing impugned trademarks / labels ASICS from
 the premises of defendant no.2 at the time of execution of
 commission. Local Commissioner's Report, as available
 on record, would reveal that Mr. Neeraj Kumar Bhartiya
 was found present at his premises and introduced himself
 to ld. Local Commissioner as proprietor of M/s NK CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 26 of 30 -27- Footwear Manufacturing and Trading. As per Inventory
 List, infringed goods i.e. total 161 pairs of finished shoes
 bearing impugned trade marks/ logos ASICS were
 recovered and seized from the premises of said defendant.
 Apart from same, unfinished goods i.e. shoe sole, shoe
 pieces without sole, etc. were also seized from the
 premises of the said defendant. 43. Thus, it is shown that the premises were searched and
 infringed goods were seized from the premises of the
 defendant no.2 in his presence. The seized infringed goods
 bearing impugned trademarks/labels were handed over to
 the said defendant, in terms of relevant order, on superdari. 44. Since, the commission was executed in the presence of the
 said defendant, it cannot be believed that he was not
 having any knowledge of proceedings going on before this
 Court and the orders passed therein. Despite that, he
 stopped appearing before this Court and chose not to
 contest the present suit and the report of Ld. Local
 Commissioner also remained uncontroverted and
 unchallenged. 45. In the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case,
 the Court is of the view that the plaintiff has succeeded in
 proving that the defendant no. 2 was manufacturing,
 stocking, distributing and selling goods bearing falsified
 trademarks / labels ASICS which are deceptively and
 confusingly similar to the plaintiff's registered trade CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 27 of 30 -28- marks/ labels ASICS and therefore, trademarks and
 copyright of plaintiff company are required to be
 protected. Accordingly, the plaintiff is held entitled to
 decree of permanent injunction, whereby the defendant
 no.2 is liable be restrained from using trade marks / logos
 ASICS or any other word mark/ mark/ trade mark/ labels
 which may be identical with and/ or deceptively similar to
 the plaintiff's said trade marks / labels ASICS in relation to
 similar goods, thereby infringing plaintiff's registered
 trademarks, copyright and passing off his products as that
 of the plaintiff. 46. Accordingly, the issue no. (i) is decided against the
 defendant no.2 and in favour of the plaintiff. ISSUE NO.2 47. Now I shall decide issue no.2 regarding delivery up, which
 is reproduced hereunder:- 48. As already discussed, infringed goods bearing falsified
 trademarks/labels of plaintiff company were seized by the
 Local Commissioner and were returned to the defendant
 no.2 on superdari. Therefore, the defendant no.2 is directed
 to delivery up all above seized infringed goods, besides all
 other impugned finished and unfinished materials bearing
 the impugned and violative trade mark/ labels to the CS (Comm.)/7/2023 Page 28 of 30 -29- plaintiff company for the purpose of destruction and
 erasure. ISSUE NO.3 49. Now I shall decide issue no.3 regarding rendition of
 accounts, which is reproduced hereunder:- 50. No finding is required to be given in respect of aforesaid
 issue, in view of statement of counsel of plaintiff made on
 29-11-2024 regarding giving up the relief as prayed in
 Prayer Clause No. 34(d) of the amended plaint and
 consequent order thereof. RELIEF: 51. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, the Court is of the
 view that the plaintiff has been able to prove its case on the
 basis of preponderance of probability. Thus, the suit is
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant
 no.2 and the following reliefs are granted:- Superdarinama is hereby cancelled; 51.3 Cost of the suit is also awarded in favour of the
 plaintiff. 52. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 53. File be consigned to Record Room, after due compliance. Announced in the open court VIDYA PRAKASH
on 16th Day of December, 2024. PRAKASH Date: