Date : 23.02.2024

 Heard Mr. H.R.A. Choudhury, learned Senior counsel assited by Mr.
 A.T. Sarkar, learned counsel for the petitioner. Also heard Mr. M. Phukan,
 learned Public Prosecutor for the State/respondent. Page No.# 2/6 2. This bail application made under Section 439 Cr.P.C., seeking bail
by the accused-petitioner, namely, Md. Chamed Ali, in connection with
Vigilance P.S. case No. 09/2023, registered under Section 13(1) (b)/13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . 3. The prosecution case as unfolded in the ejahar on the basis of the
complaint made by MLA of South Karimganj Constituency alleging that the
present petitioner, the then Executive Engineer, PWD Road Division,
Karimganj took a huge amount from the contractor for release of payment
of their bills without execution of works as per plan and estimate. Some
contractors are executing work till date and other works are still pending
but they got full payment against their allotted works without execution. It
is alleged that the present petitioner Md. Chamed Ali acquired huge
property by illegal and corrupt means which is disproportionate to known
source of his income. 4. As per order of Government of Assam, a preliminary enquiry was
initiated and during the enquiry, it was found that the petitioner had joined
as Assistant Engineer in PWD, Karimganj and retired from service in March,
2021 as an Executive Engineer. During investigation, it reveals that the
petitioner, the then executive engineer was found possession of assets
(movable and immovable) to the tune of Rs.96,73,885.87/-. He also
purchased one flat from M/s Greenacres Real Estate Developer and Builder
at Rs.30,00,000/- on 30.11.2021 after the check period. Thus, the
petitioner possessed assets both movable and immovable to the tune of
Rs.66,73,886/- during the check period i.e. from 01.01.2000 to 31.03.2021. 5. During investigation, it also revealed from the investigation that
 Page No.# 3/6

during the check period i.e. from 01.01.2000 to 31.03.2021, the petitioner
incurred income under different heads which was from his salary amounting
to Rs.1,10,00,000/- and income from house & properties, maturity value of
investment, maturity value of life insurance policies etc. approximately
Rs.50,00,000/-. The total income of the petitioner found as
Rs.1,60,00,000/-. 6. It was also alleged in the FIR that during the check period from
01.01.2000 to 31.03.2021, the present petitioner incurred expenditure
under different heads which was worked out at Rs.2,76,66,666/-. The
expenditure made by the petitioner relating to construction of houses,
registration of vehicles, maintenance cost of vehicle, educational
expenditures, telephone and electricity bills, premium paid against life
insurance policies, expenditure incurred on registration of land etc. Thus
the petitioner possessed disproportionate assets amounting to
Rs.1,83,40,552/-. 7. It is submitted by the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner that
the petitioner has been detained in custody since 18.01.2024. He has been
retired from his service and he has never indulged himself in any criminal
activities whatsoever at any point of time and the so-called allegation
brought against the petitioner is totally false and baseless and fabricated
one. 8. It is further submitted that the actual fact of the case is that the
petitioner was transferred to Karimganj on 06.02.2020 as an Executive
Engineer and he was performing his duties to the satisfaction of the
departmental authorities. During that period, the petitioner cancelled the
 Page No.# 4/6

work order of the brother of the then MLA of South Karimganj Constituency,
as he could not complete his assigned work within the stipulated time
enumerated in the respective notice inviting tender. Being aggrieved, the
then MLA several times requested the petitioner to withdraw the
cancellation order and allowed his brother to complete the balance work
but the petitioner considering the greater interest of the society as well as
urgent needs of the road in question, did not withdraw the cancellation
order, rather assigned the work to another contractor to complete the
same. As a result of which, the complaint was made against the petitioner
by the then MLA with a view to harass him. 9. Learned Senior counsel for the petitioner has further contended that
the petitioner had applied for Haj before the Government of India along
with relevant document including his passport which is going to be held in
the month of May, 2024 in Saudi Arabia and consequently, the original copy
of passport has been kept by the authority for the purpose of obtaining
visa. During the investigation of the case, the petitioner duly informed to
the investigating officer but surprisingly, the said fact was neither taken into
consideration nor brought to the notice of this Court rather shown the same
as ground of arrest raising doubt about his availability during investigation
or trial. Accordingly, the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner submits
that the doubt shown by the investigating officer is totally baseless. Under
such backdrop, the bail prayer of the petitioner may be considered for the
interest of justice. 10. It is also submitted by the learned Senior counsel for the petitioner
that as per direction of the Chief Minister's Special Vigilance Cell, Assam,
 Page No.# 5/6

the petitioner disclosed his each and every assets both moveable and
immovable properties within 15 days as per format supplied by the
authority but the investigating officer without considering the material,
arrested the petitioner. The learned Senior counsel for the petitioner further
submits that the petitioner will cooperate with the investigation as and
when required. As nothing to be remained in investigation on the part of
the petitioner, further custodial interrogation is not at all required for the
purpose of investigation of the case. As such petitioner may be released on
bail in any condition imposed by this Court. 11. Per contra, Mr. Phukan, learned Public Prosecutor for the State
submits that there is sufficient incriminating materials available in the case
diary. The investigation is at the nascent stage and at this stage of
investigation, allowing the petitioner to go on bail may hamper in the
investigation of the case. 12. Learned Public Prosecutor has also pointed out the order of the
Special judge by stating that one of the prime witnesses after giving her
statement allowed to go by the investigating officer and thereafter she was
called again but she refused to appear before the investigating officer by
giving her further statement. Accordingly, learned Public Prosecutor has
vehemently opposed in granting bail to the petitioner at this stage of the
investigation. 13. I have considered the submission of learned counsel for the parties.
Perused the case diary including the statement of the witnesses recorded
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and the documents available in the case diary. Page No.# 6/6 14. The alleged offence pertains to disproportionate assets against
 actual income of the present petitioner. The documents available in the
 case diary shows that the petitioner had collected disproportionate assets
 which was not possible by a government servant to procure by spending
 money from his salary. 15. The economic crime of such scale and magnitude are carefully and
 meticulously planned and executed. It is well settled that economic
 offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited with a different
 approach in the matter of bail. While granting bail, the court has to keep in
 mind the nature of acquisition, magnitude and gravity of offence and
 nature of evidence in support of the acquisitions as held by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy vs. CBI , reported in
 2013 v. (7) SCC 439. 16. The present case involves a scam of huge magnitude involving
 money more than two crores of rupees. Trust has been breached in criminal
 conspiracy by the accused/petitioner which has resulted huge loss to the
 State. The money trail is yet to be completely discovered and therefore, at
 this stage, the accused/petitioner cannot be released on bail. Therefore,
 prayer for bail is rejected. 17. The bail application stands disposed of accordingly. 18. Return the case diary. JUDGE
Comparing Assistant