% 20.12.2022 1. By this petition, the petitioner has sought regular bail bail in FIR No.
 569 dated 8th August, 2022 registered at P.S. Samai Pur Badli, Delhi under sections 409 , 420 , 464 , 120B of IPC & sections 24 / 25 Indian Telegraph Act and
 66 C and 72 IT Act . The background facts are that the police working on a
 secret information came to know a detective agency, where some people were
 adopting business of purchasing and selling of call detail reports (CDRs) of
 general public in unauthorised manner. On 7th August, 2022 using the
 information though an informer, a decoy order was placed for mobile No.
 7838727507 negotiated at a cost of Rs.25,000/- for a month. The deal was
 reportedly fixed with a person named Pawan Kumar who was working with
 Venus Detective Agency (VDA) situated in Noida. Pawan instructed the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:23.12.2022 06:23:25 informer to make available an email id and password and after getting the
 money, the agency would upload the CDR in draft email. The informer
 accordingly provided an email account created for this purpose. On 8th
 August, 2022, informer was told that Pawan Kumar, employee of VDA would
 provide CDR of this mobile number at about 12 Noon in the area of Rohini at
 Sector 18. Upon this information, a team was constituted and the employee
 was met by the informer. Upon giving Rs.25,000/- by the informer, Pawan
 Kumar opened the email id which he had given and the CDR which was
 available in the draft email folder and saved it in pen drive and gave it to HC
 Amit. Subsequently, Pawan Kumar was apprehended and Rs.25,000/- was
 recovered and FIR was lodged. 2. As per the status report, upon interrogation, Pawan Kumar disclosed
 that he was just a field boy working at the behest of the VDA and used to
 provide data and documents to customers on the instructions of his seniors
 Pankaj Jha and Company Director Akriti Khatri, the petitioner herein. For this
 particular decoy transaction he had come on the directions of Pankaj Jha, who
 was also arrested on 11th August, 2022. Pankaj Jha in turn told that he used to
 work under the directions of his boss, Akriti Khatri. 3. Accordingly, the petitioner was arrested on 11th August, 2022 and five
 mobile phones were recovered from her. The petitioner, on interrogation
 disclosed that she got CDRs from one Miet Shah and has associate Rishi Shah,
 residents of Surat, Gujarat who claimed themselves to be cyber experts. A
 team was sent to Surat, Gujarat where two persons were found present at the
 given address and they were arrested on 13th August, 2022. They in turn
 disclosed that they got the CDRs through their associate Vipul who was a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:23.12.2022 06:23:25 policeman posted at Varachha police station in Surat, Gujarat, who was also
 subsequently arrested. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has contended that the petitioner has
 been arrested on false implication and has been in judicial custody since 16th
 August, 2022. He submitted that the petitioner is a widow aged 36 years and
 has a minor school going child aged 9 years, who is now being taken care of
 by her old aged parents and she is the sole bread earner of the family. The
 petitioner runs Venus Detective Agency which is highly awarded and reputed
 in the industry. In the absence of any licensing and regulatory authority or of
 any prescribed standards and regulations the parameters of work of a detective
 agency is not circumscribed by law. However, there has been never any
 complaint against the petitioner of any illegality and the present FIR has been
 given colour of a scam, whereas it is not so. The petitioner fully cooperated
 with investigation at every stage but seems to have been framed at the behest
 of her competitors. He submitted that the agency is the country's leading
 female private detective agency in Delhi and NCR, has a strong PAN India
 presence and trusted for over 12 years of domain experience. Their work is
 through modern technology and advanced technical equipments. 5. He submitted that even assuming that the allegations are correct,
 charges of section 409 IPC would certainly not be relevant as no property was
 entrusted. At worst, offences under sections of IT Act would prevail which
 prescribed a sentence of maximum of 3 years. Section 409 IPC, he argued is a
 sequel to section 405 IPC which is criminal breach of trust and would not
 apply to a situation as alleged. Section 409 IPC would only be attracted when
 a person is public servant or banker, merchant, agent and the petitioner does
 not fall in any of these categories. Even as regards section 464 IPC i.e. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:23.12.2022 06:23:25 making a false document, there is nothing in allegation which pertains to
 making of false documents to bring home such an offence. Further, there are
 no details of any conspiracy in the FIR. Moreover, the FIR states that decoy
 transaction happened on 7th August, 2022 whereas the allegation is that the
 CDR was found in the mobile on 4th August, 2022 of the decoy customer.
 Such a contradiction would substantiate the fact that a false allegation was
 made. Besides, all hard drives and mobiles have been seized by VDA by the
 police. 6. Ld. APP countering this contention stated that it took time for
 investigation agencies to cultivate the decoy transaction and therefore, certain
 material would have been available even before 7th August, 2022 in their
 records. Further, the charge sheet had been filed it was to be considered by
 the Ld. Trial Court. The status report duly noted the fact that the concerned
 electronic evidence including phones, emails, electronic devices, call details
 had been seized by the police. 7. Pursuant to a perusal of documents on record including the FIR, even
 assuming that the allegations in the FIR are taken to be correct, the allegation
 relating to the petitioner would be that she as an owner/director of VDC was
 instrumental in using her officials and employees for procuring CDRs of
 private persons at the behest of her customers for valuable consideration.
 Procuring CDRs illegally would at best, amount to offence under section 72 of
 the IT Act, 2000 which prescribes the penalty for breach of confidentiality and
 privacy of a term may extend to 2 years, or with fine which may extend to one
 lakh rupee, or with both. The other provision under which the FIR has been
 registered is section 66 C IT Act which is for punishment for identity theft in
 which the imprisonment may extend to 3 years, and shall also be liable to pay Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:23.12.2022 06:23:25 fine which may extend to one lakh. Prima facie, on conspectus of facts
 alleged at this stage, there is no allegation borne out of record of identity
 theft by the petitioner, except for an allegation that the source from which
 CDRs were ultimately obtained were through a constable who had gained
 unauthorized access to email of a DCP in Gujarat. Learned counsel for the
 petitioner has stated that nothing incriminating had been found from the said
 constable as is evident from the charge sheet. The above charges and the other
 charges under IPC in the said charge sheet ( Section 420 / 409 / 471 / 120 B IPC)
 would have to be substantiated finally during framing of charges and trial. 8. At this stage considering the fact that the petitioner has been in custody
 since 16th August, 2022 and investigation is complete; charge sheet has been
 filed; co-accused were taken in custody; recoveries have been made from
 inter alia the petitioner including mobile phones, electronic devices, modem,
 CPUs, sim cards, memory cards etc, and considering that the trial would take a
 substantial amount of time, it would not be prudent to keep the petitioner in
 custody till the prosecution is able to prove charges against her beyond
 reasonable doubt, pursuant to a trial. 9. Further, the petitioner is a widow having to take care of a minor child
 and old age parents and is the sole bread winner in the family. It would serve
 no purpose to keep the petitioner in custody when investigation is already
 complete. The petitioner clearly has deep roots in society and there is no
 allegation in the status report that she has not cooperated with the
 investigation. 10. In light of the above and that the trial in the matter is likely to take some
 time and it would not be prudent to keep the petitioner behind bars for an Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:23.12.2022 06:23:25 indefinite period, this Court finds it to be a fit case for grant of bail to the
 petitioner. Consequently, the petitioner is directed to be released on bail on his
 furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.1,00,000/- with 1 surety of the like
 amount subject to the satisfaction of the Ld. Trial Court, further subject to the
 following conditions: 11. Copy of the order be sent to the Jail Superintendent for information and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:23.12.2022 06:23:25 necessary compliance. 12. Accordingly, the application is disposed of. 13. Order be uploaded on the website of this Court. ANISH DAYAL, J
 DECEMBER 20, 2022/sm Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR Signing Date:23.12.2022 06:23:25