Compromised Aadhaar numbers and fingerprint biometrics, via mainly land and property registration records, are the reason behind frauds in the Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AePS), the Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary shared in the Rajya Sabha on July 30. This comes after Kolkata’s cyber crime wing found that fraudsters were stealing people’s biometrics details in the state by downloading multiple land deeds from the State’s property registration website in October last year.

Developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), AePS is a financial inclusion product that facilitates cash withdrawal, deposit and funds transfers at MicroATMs (handheld card swiping devices) through a business correspondent (BC – an extended arm of a bank that provides financial services to unbanked/underbanked areas) of any AePS-enabled bank.

Chaudhary spoke about AePS frauds in response to a question by Member of Parliament Derek of Brien, who had sought information about the major financial instruments used for cyber frauds and the number of cases reported regarding them in the last three years. Further, Brien also sought to find out whether financial fraud through the AePS can put an individual’s sensitive private information at risk.

In 2023, biometric cloning accounted for 11% of all financial cybercrimes. The Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) of AePS, a cybercrime division within the Ministry of Home Affairs, identified this issue in January of the same year . A bulk of these originate from parts of Jharkhand and Bihar.

While meant as a system for financial inclusion, AePS has been infamous for contributing to fraud, with fraudsters cloning people’s fingerprints to steal funds. In June last year, MP John Brittas wrote to the Prime Minister urging the government to take cognizance of the cybercrimes and rising instances of financial fraud associated with AePS. His letter emphasized that bad actors exploit the system’s failure to distinguish between a genuine live fingerprint and a duplicate one.

Chaudhary’s response mentions that the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) provides a facility to lock a user’s Aadhaar, which ensures that biometrics cannot be misused. However, as per Brittas’ letter , knowledge about features like this is “disturbingly low, particularly among the less educated segment of the population”. This puts into question how effective this technique would be in combating AePS fraud.

Chaudhary also mentioned that UIDAI has advised banks to implement a Finger Minutiae Record – Finger Image Record (FMR-FIR) for fingerprint authentication modality which can help with conducting a liveliness check at UIDAI’s end. While this liveliness check was introduced in August 2023, frauds have persisted. Fraudsters have been using dummy fingers to cheat the system, the Ministry of Home Affairs told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Communication and Information Technology in February this year, as per an HT report .

Besides this, Chadhary mentioned that NPCI has advised AePS member banks to disable AePS for specific categories of accounts and to provide customers with multiple options to enable or disable AePS debit transactions. There is also a Rs. 50,000 limit for cash withdrawal and bhim Adhaar Pay via AePS.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event