I got a call from one volunteer named kirti on 14 march 2018, regarding the donation for a 6 months old baby abu, with burns on the face and body and emergency grafting surgery to be performed. I asked her to send the details as sms to my mobile number and told her if i find it genuine i would help, for which she agreed and said the same. I received the details of website: www.indiarehabcentre.org. I checked the website and could not find proper details to trust. The phone number given is an invalid number[protected]. Obviously, how can we trust a website which does not furnish proper details and contact number also. So i did not do any donation. The next day, 15 march 2018 at 19:37 ist, again i receive the call from the same lady (Kirti) inquiring me for the donation not done. I informed her that i could not find the details genuine so am not ready to go for any donation. I am a working professional, busy with work still at office at that time. But still i had taken the call and spoke with her normally with respect. But she sounded demanding and not ready to leave the call. So i asked her why she is demanding, and this does not sound good from a person asking donation. And when someone is not ready to donate, they must accept and leave us. Instead she started again and told that she is not demanding but not ready to leave the call. I told her that she cannot force / demand anyone to donate and not to waste my time. She yelled "what is the hell with this stupid lady". I confronted her by calling again and she says she has not spoken that. When i said i have the recording of the call and is anyone supposed to speak in that manner after wasting our time. I would complaint about her and report this to the concerned department, she started yelling that i am wasting her time and i can go ahead and do whatever i want. Is this the way a volunteer speaks. From this conversation, it is very much clear that the call, website, incident and the person speaking are not genuine. Or else, she would have told me that it is my wish and my call to donate or not donate.in spite of me being busy, i have not abused or not scolded her and holding my patience throughout the call. But she instead was rude and abusing me. I strongly inform people to be aware of this person kirti, and website (www.indiarehabcentre.org) of fraudulent activities. Please be informed about this and never fall for such calls. I request the concerned department to take severe action against these people who are misguiding and playing with the trust of the people. And i would definitely file a case against her and the so called organisation now. Sms received from mobile number: [protected] Call received from mobile number: [protected], [protected] Website: http://www.indiarehabcentre.org/ Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)