At the meeting, CEOs of major US companies committed to investing in cybersecurity solutions, improving the cybersecurity workforce, and offering free awareness or training programmes.

“The reality is, most of our critical infrastructure is owned and operated by the private sector, and the federal government can’t meet this challenge alone,” US President Joe Biden said on August 25 in a meeting with private sector leaders on improving the nation’s cybersecurity. “I’ve invited you all here today because you have the power, the capacity, and the responsibility, I believe, to raise the bar on cybersecurity,” he added.

The meeting shed light on how governments can work with the private sector to develop solutions to the rapidly increasing problem of cyberattacks.

Tech companies: Google (CEO Sundar Pichai), Amazon (CEO Andy Jassy), Apple (CEO Tim Cook), Microsoft (CEO Satya Nadella), IBM (CEO Arvind Krishna), and Automatic Data Processing.

Financial institutions: JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, TIAA, and U.S. Bancorp.

Insurance companies: Coalition, Vantage Group, Resilience, and Travelers.

Educational institutions: Code.org, University of Texas System, Tougaloo College, Girls Who Code, and Whatcom Community College.

“We really see insurance as a way to drive better cybersecurity practices,” – senior administration official in a press call

“Our skilled cybersecurity workforce has not grown fast enough to keep pace […] half a million cybersecurity jobs remain unfilled.” – President Biden

Cybersecurity policy overhaul: This latest meeting builds on the many other cybersecurity initiatives launched by the US in recent months. Most significantly, in May this year, the US President signed an executive order , which initiated a major overhaul to the nation’s cybersecurity policy. The order focuses on the following key policy changes:

National Security Memorandum: In July, the US government issued a National Security Memorandum on improving cybersecurity for critical infrastructure control systems. The memorandum:

International engagement: The US government said that it is working with G7 countries to hold accountable nations that harbor ransomware criminals and that it has updated the NATO cyber policy for the first time in seven years. In his address, Biden added that he also had a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin where he made clear that the US expects him to hold ransomware criminals accountable.

Fact sheet | Remarks by President Biden | Background Press Call | Press Briefing |

Also Read

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event