SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Got scammed of 1 lakh by a Lodha Employee  
DATE: 2024-04-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1c2txut/got_scammed_of_1_lakh_by_a_lodha_employee/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have been scammed of 1.03L by a broker who works in Lodha Easy-Lease office. 

Me and my brother visited the office on 25th of March and spoke to a broker in Lodha Easy-Lease office and enquired for a 3BHK rental unit.

He showed us the property W10 - 2801/2802. And we showed the interest and finalized the same paying token of 20k.

On a conference call the broker took Mr. X on call with my brother to take deal forward. My brother was told that Mr. X is owner's uncle who look after the owner’s property (Owner lives in Australia). On this call the broker and Mr. X requested my brother to pay Rs. 23000 more by saying we take one month rent as token. (Monthly rental is 43k). And on the same call both of them assured my brother that he will get the possession on 10th of April 2024.

The broker was not helping us to get the agreement done and then he asked for 50k as partial deposit. However my brother agreed to pay 50k on the date of making of rental agreement. Shifting date was 10th April as per the rental agreement, but after paying 50K, broker started avoiding our call and started making excuses like not getting NOC and society permission etc. 

To expedite the above process he asked us to pay 10k directly to his account as a bribe to some society member.

20k - Gpay to Mr. X

23k - Gpay to Mr. X

50k - Gpay to Mr. X

10k - Gpay to Broker

Our current rental agreement ended on 10th April and we have to vacate our current flat and move our stuff to a warehouse. And today on 12th of April he stopped receiving our calls as well, so we thought of visiting the office.

On reaching office, we found out that the broker has done the same thing with 3-4 other people too. The broker also made them pay to the same person Mr. X ! So, his office colleagues have no idea about this fraud as he was the supervisor here. 

We are in talks with higher management of Lodha but we are not getting satisfactory solutions to our problems. 

What legal action can we take against the culprit broker and Lodha? We are yet to file a police complaint, should we include Lodha in the police complaint.