CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 2 of 467
 INDEX TO THE JUDGMENT

S.NO HEADING PAGE
 NO(s) (A) Facts 7 A (i) Investigation by CBI 11 A (ii) Proceedings before the Court. 14 (B) Charges Framed 16 (C) Evidence 19 C (i) Prosecution Evidence 20 C (ii) Defence Evidence 26 (D) Arguments D (i) Arguments on behalf of Prosecution 29 D (ii) Arguments on behalf of company A-1 M/s VMPL. 33

 D (iii) Arguments on behalf of A-2 Vikash Patni 34

 D (iv) Arguments on behalf of A-3 Anand Mallick. 46 D (v) Arguments on behalf of A-4 H.C. Gupta. 50 D (vi) Arguments on behalf of A-5 K.S. Kropha and 60
 A-6 K.C. Samria. (E) Prelude to my discussion of the prosecution case. 75

(F) Role of private parties i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni 86
 and A-3 Anand Mallick in the allocation of Moira- Madhujore Coal Block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL by
 Ministry of Coal. F (i) Actual purpose of seeking allocation of a captive coal 117
 block situated in state of West Bengal by A-1 M/s
 VMPL. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 3 of 467
 F (ii) Whether the application of M/s VMPL was complete in
 terms of the guidelines issued by MOC governing 119
 allocation of captive coal blocks. F (iii) Whether the company M/s VMPL mentioned inflated 146
 figures of financial strength in its application. F (iv) Whether A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 147
 Anand Mallick were aware of the factum of
 cancellation of allotment of 300 acres of land to A-1
 M/s VMPL by BIADA. F (v) Whether Ministry of Steel relied upon the aforesaid 154
 highly inflated claims about the financial strength and
 capacity of the end use project made by the company
 M/s VMPL in its application. F (vi) Whether the data furnished by A-1 M/s VMPL in its 160
 application and the feed-back form was considered by
 the Screening Committee, MOC. F (vii) Whether issuance of letter of allotment of coal block 163
 amounted to delivery of property resulting in wrongful
 gain to A-1 M/s VMPL. F (viii) Whether the dishonest misrepresentation continued 168
 before Prime Minister as Minister of Coal and thereby
 cheating MOC, Government of India. F (xii) Whether the ingredients of the offence of cheating 187
 stands proved. F (xiii) Whether the accused persons i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 188
 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick acted in
 pursuance to a criminal conspiracy. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 4 of 467
 (G) Role of accused Ministry of Coal officers i.e. A-4 H.C. 195
 Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha And A-6 K.C. Samria

 G (i) Whether the process of receiving the applications or 209
 their subsequent processing in Ministry of Coal was
 dealt with in accordance with the Provisions of Central
 Secretariat Manual Of Office Procedure. G (ii) Whether the Provisions of Manual of Office Procedure 226
 were applicable to the proceedings of Screening
 Committee. G (iii) Whether the guidelines issued by MOC governing 233
 allocation of captive coal blocks were binding and
 were mandatorily to be followed by MOC officers and
 by the Screening Committee. G (iv) Whether in the processing of applications in MOC 252
 there was any violation of guidelines governing
 allocation of captive coal blocks i.e. whether the
 applications were checked for their eligibility and
 completeness or not. G (v) Whether senior MOC officers were responsible for 262
 ensuring checking of applications for their eligibility
 and completeness in terms of the guidelines and also
 whether accused MOC officers were aware of the
 process undertaken in MOC in processing of
 applications before they were considered by the
 Screening Committee. G (vi) Whether there was any violation of guidelines in the 283
 Screening Committee meeting. G (vii) Whether the recommendations made by 36th 288
 Screening Committee meeting were unanimous. b(ii) Whether the comments of State Government of 310 Bihar were necessary to be placed before the
 Screening Committee. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 5 of 467
 b(iii) Whose responsibility was it to ensure that
 notice of Screening Committee meetings is
 issued to all members and to also ensure that
 comments of all concerned are made available
 to the Screening Committee for its
 consideration. (c) Process followed by 36th Screening Committee 325
 which led to selection of A-1 M/s VMPL as a joint
 allocatee for allocation of Moira-Madhujore Coal
 Block. (d) Significance of signing the recommendation 348
 sheets by the members of Screening Committee
 in its meeting held on 03.07.2008 and whether it
 conveys unanimity. G (viii) Processing of minutes of 36 th Screening Committee 360
 meeting in Ministry of Coal and in Prime Minister
 Office leading to approval of the recommendations by
 Prime Minister as Minister of Coal. G (ix) Whether Company A-1 M/s VMPL was recommended 370
 for allocation of Moira-Madhujore Coal Block by 36 th
 Screening Committee only for its proposed iron and
 steel project at Bihar or also for its existing plant at
 West Bengal. (H) Checking of applications post-approval of 396
 recommendations of Screening Committee by Prime
 Minister as Minster of Coal. (I) Offence of criminal misconduct i.e. u/s 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 403
 1988. (K) Section 409 IPC and Section 13 (1) (c) P.C. ACT, 1988 as 410
 against A-4 H.C. Gupta

(L) Validity of sanction u/s 19 PC Act, 1988 as accorded 412
 against A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria by the
 Competent Sanctioning Authority. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 6 of 467
 (M) Whether sanction u/s 197 Cr. PC was required against A-4 426
 H.C. Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria

(N) Effect of Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018 431
 on the present proceedings. 1. The present case pertains to allocation of Moira and
Madhujore (North and South), Raniganj, West Bengal, coal block in
favour of M/s Vikash Metal and Power Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as
"M/s VMPL") by Ministry of Coal (MOC), Government of India. (A) FACTS 2. Briefly stated the necessary facts of the prosecution case are
as under: 3. The applications were also to be accompanied with a demand
draft of Rs. 10,000/- beside other documents as were asked for in the
detailed guidelines. The prescribed format of the application form also
required the applicant companies to submit various details about their
company or the end use project if already established by them or
proposed to be established by them regarding which Coal Block
allocation was sought for. The companies were required to mention
their turnover of the last three preceding years beside mentioning the
profit earned in the last three years and the net worth as on
31.03.2006. The details of the end use project viz. the existing
capacity, if any, alongwith proposed capacity of the project and the
ultimate capacity (total) and "ROM Coal" requirement were also
required to be mentioned. Various other details regarding the status
of the end use project with respect to land, water, equipments, civil
construction, finance etc. and also the clearances which were already
obtained or were applied for were also required to be mentioned. The
details of the investment already made or proposed to be made was

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 8 of 467
 also required to be mentioned in the application form. Further the
applications were to be submitted in five copies. 4. As regard coal blocks reserved for companies engaged in
non-power sector, MOC received about 674 applications from 184
companies. For Moira and Madhujore (North and South) coal block a
number of companies including M/s VMPL applied for its allocation.
The application of M/s VMPL (Accused No. 1) dated 11.01.2007 was
signed by its authorised signatory/Director namely Anand Mallick
(Accused No. 3) and was submitted to MOC on 12.01.2007. While
35th Screening Committee dealt with applications received for
allotment of coal blocks reserved for companies engaged in power
sector, the applications received for allocation of coal blocks reserved
for end use other than power were considered by 36th Screening
Committee. 5. In accordance with the procedure provided in the guidelines
for processing of applications, four copies of all the applications were
sent to Administrative Ministries (Ministry of Steel in the present
case), Central Mine Planning & Design Institute Limited, (CMPDIL)
and the State Governments concerned where the Coal Block applied
for was situated [State of West Bengal in the present case] or the end
use project was situated or was proposed to be established (State of
Bihar in the present case) for their views and comments. One copy of
all the applications was however retained in MOC. The applications
were thereafter referred to 36th Screening Committee for its
consideration with comments/views of various stakeholders as were

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 9 of 467
 received in MOC. 6. The Screening Committee as was constituted in MOC by
Government of India was given the task of screening the applications
of various applicant companies and to thereafter make
recommendation for allotment of various Coal Blocks in favour of
eligible companies. The 36th Screening Committee thus conducted
its meetings on 7/8.12.2007, 7/8.02.2008 and 03.07.2008 to consider
applications qua coal blocks reserved for companies engaged in non-
power sector. The Screening Committee also gave all the applicant
companies an opportunity to present their case before it beside also
requiring them to fill up a feedback form, containing details of "Latest
Status of End Use Project". The format of the feedback form was
also uploaded on the website of MOC. The applicant companies were
supposed to fill-up the said feedback form and were to submit the
same to Screening Committee in 25 copies at the time of making
presentation. 7. On 07.02.2008 A-2 Vikash Patni, A-3 Anand Mallick
alongwith one Ranjan Barman (PW-15) appeared on behalf of A-1
M/s VMPL for presentation before the Screening Committee and also
submitted the feed-back form. Subsequently, the Screening
Committee in its meeting held on 03.07.2008 recommended
allocation of 23 Coal Blocks earmarked for non-power sector in
favour of different applicant companies. Moira and Madhujore (North
and South) Coal Block was however recommended for being allotted
jointly in favour of six companies including A-1 M/s VMPL. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 10 of 467 8. However, after some time a lot of hue and cry came to be
raised in the public alleging that Coal Blocks have been allotted by
Government of India not only illegally but in furtherance of a criminal
conspiracy entered into by different applicant companies and the
MOC officers. Central Vigilance Commission thus chose to look into
the entire allocation process as there were large number of
allegations of corruption against the public servants involved. After
examining various files of allocation of Coal Blocks, the Central
Vigilance Commission made a reference to CBI to investigate into the
allegations of alleged corruption by the public servants in the matter
of allocation of Coal Blocks to private companies during the period
2006-2009. A (i) INVESTIGATION BY CBI 9. On the basis of said reference a preliminary enquiry was
instituted on 01.06.2012 by CBI with respect to allocation of various
coal blocks including Moira and Madhujore (North and South) Coal
Block to A-1, M/s VMPL. During the course of said preliminary
enquiry, the CBI prima facie found an element of truth in the
allegations of corruption in the allocation of impugned Coal Block to
A-1 M/s VMPL warranting further investigation. Accordingly an FIR
was registered on 13.10.2012 against A-1 M/s VMPL and others
including unknown public servants for the offences punishable u/s
120B r/w Section 420 IPC and Section 13 (1) (d) r/w Section 13 (2) of
the Prevention of Corruption, Act 1988. The investigation of the case

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 11 of 467
 was thereafter carried out by IO Inspector Rajbir Singh. 10. During the course of preliminary enquiry it was found that the
allotment of about 300 acres of land earlier allotted to M/s VMPL was
in fact already cancelled by Bihar Industrial Area Development
Authority (BIADA) vide their letter dated 21.09.07. However M/s
VMPL was found to have concealed this fact of cancellation of
allotment of land before the Screening Committee when they
appeared for their presentation and even in the feed back form filled
and submitted by them they continued to represent that 300 acres of
land stand allotted to them. It was also found that the figures of
turnover, profit and net-worth of the company as were mentioned in
the application form was also not correct. It even did not tally with
copy of the balance sheets of the company for the past 3 years as
were annexed with the application. It was also found that the
application of company M/s VMPL was also not complete as it had
not annexed with it the project report as was mandated by the
guidelines issued by MOC. 11. Subsequently during the course of investigation the company
however claimed that the letter of cancellation of allotment of land
issued by "BIADA" was not received by them though they admitted
having received earlier letters from "BIADA" where on account of non-
compliance with certain conditions the land was proposed to be
cancelled by "BIADA". The investigating officer, Insp. Rajbir Singh
accordingly sought to collect information regarding receipt of letter of
cancellation of allotment of land sent by "BIADA" through registered

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 12 of 467
 post to M/s VMPL from the concerned post office. However the post
office authorities claimed inability to make available record pertaining
to the postage or receipt of said letter as the record which was more
than 2 years old was stated to be not available with them. During the
course of investigation IO Insp. Rajbir Singh also recorded
statements of various persons from Ministry of Coal and Ministry of
Steel who were involved in the process of allotment of Coal Blocks
and came to the conclusion that the allotment of land was neither a
pre-requisite condition nor a mandatory condition for allotment of
Coal Blocks. Accordingly a closure report was filed in the Court
opining that the allegations either against M/s VMPL or its Directors
or even against the public servants could not be substantiated during
the course of investigation. 12. It was in these circumstances also concluded by IO Inspector
Rajbir Singh that no cogent evidence could come to light which could
prove that any wrongful gain was caused to the accused company in
allocation of impugned Coal Block. As regard submitting the false
data regarding its financial strength by the company, it was stated
that the Ministry of Steel which was the administrative Ministry also
did not consider the net-worth of the company for making their
recommendation to MOC and thus it was of no consequence to
Ministry of Steel in classifying the company under any of the category
as were devised by it. The final report also stated that during
investigation no evidence could emerge to establish that task of
checking of applications as regard their completeness and eligibility

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 13 of 467
 was not undertaken by the officers of MOC pursuant to any criminal
conspiracy with any of the applicant companies including the accused
company M/s VMPL. No offence was thus found to have been
committed either by A-1 M/s VMPL or its Directors/officers or even by
any of the public servants involved in the entire coal block allocation
process. A (ii) PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE COURT 13. However vide a detailed order dated 15.10.2014, this Court
disagreed with the conclusion so drawn by the CBI and ordered
further investigation in the matter. Accordingly a supplementary final
report was filed on 07.04.2015 by IO Insp. Rajbir Singh. In the said
supplementary report filed u/s 173 (8) Cr.PC, the CBI changed its
stand and charge-sheeted three accused persons i.e. company M/s
VMPL, Vikash Patni, Managing Director of M/s VMPL, and Anand
Mallick, the authorised signatory of company M/s VMPL for the
offence u/s 120-B / 420 IPC. As regard all other directors of the
company or the public servants involved in the process of allocation
of coal block to the company it was stated that no offence was found
to have been committed by them. 14. The said supplementary report filed by CBI was considered
by this Court vide a order dated 05.08.2015. After detailed discussion
it was observed that prima facie H.C. Gupta, the then Secretary, Coal
and Chairman, Screening Committee, K.S. Kropha, Joint Secretary,
Coal and Member Convener, Screening Committee and K.C. Samria,

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 14 of 467
 Deputy Secretary/Director, CA-I Ministry of Coal were found to have
conspired with private parties involved. Offences under Section 120-
B/409 IPC r/w Section 13 (1) (c)/13 (1) (d) P C Act, 1988 were found
to have been committed by them. However as except for H.C. Gupta
the other two public servants were still in Government service and
thus congnizance of offences under P.C. Act 1988 could have been
taken against them only if prior sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act, 1988 is
accorded by the Competent Sanctioning Authority. Accordingly vide
order dated 05.08.2015 itself, the matter was sent for further
investigation to CBI u/s 173 (8) Cr.PC with the direction that during
the course of further investigation CBI shall place before the
Competent Sanctioning Authority, the records of the case so as to
consider according of sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act to prosecute the two
public servants i.e. K.S. Kropha and K.C. Samria for the offences
under P.C. Act . Accordingly during the course of further investigation,
CBI sent the records of the case to the competent sanctioning
authority for considering according of sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act, 1988
against the two public servants. The competent sanctioning authority
thereafter accorded sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act to prosecute both
accused K.S. Kropha and K.C. Samria for the offence u/s 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act and also for any other offences punishable under other
provisions of law in respect of the acts mentioned in the sanction
order. 15. Thereafter vide order dated 05.02.2016 cognizance of the
offence u/s 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act was taken against accused H.C. Gupta

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 15 of 467
 (A-4), K.S. Kropha (A-5) and K.C. Samria (A-6) and also cognizance
was taken of the offence U/S 409 IPC and of the offence U/S 13 (1) (c) P C Act, 1988 against accused H C Gupta. Cognizance for the
offence u/s 120-B / 420 IPC was taken against A-1 M/s VMPL, its
director Vikash Patni (A-2) and also against Anand Mallick (A-3).
Cognizance was thus also taken against all the six accused persons
namely company M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd, its Directors Vikash
Patni, Anand Mallick and public servants namely H. C. Gupta, K. S.
Kropha and K. C. Samria for the offences u/s 120-B / 409 / 420 IPC
read with Section 13 (1) (c)/13 (1) (d) P C Act, 1988. (B) CHARGES FRAMED 16. Subsequently, when all the accused persons put in their
appearance, copies of the charge sheet were supplied to them. After
due compliance of Section 207 Cr.PC, when the matter was fixed for
arguments on the point of charge, Ld. Counsels for the accused
persons very fairly stated that though charges may be framed against
the accused persons for the offences u/s 120-B IPC and for the
offences u/s 120-B / 409 / 420 IPC and also u/s 13 (1) (c) / 13 (1) (d) P.C.
Act, 1988 but they shall be demonstrating, during the course of trial,
that the allegations levelled against the accused persons are
completely false. 17. Accordingly, vide order dated 12.08.2016 charge for the
various offences as are mentioned in the table below were framed
against the accused persons on 19.08.2016. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 16 of 467
 CHARGES FRAMED
 (I) (II)
 S.No Name of accused Charges Common to all Charges
 separately
 framed
 1 A-1 M/s VMPL (i) 120-B IPC
 420 IPC (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. 409/420 IPC
 and Section 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d)
 P.C. Act, 1988
 2 A-2 Vikash Patni (i) 120-B IPC (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. 409/420 IPC 420 IPC
 and Section 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d)
 P.C. Act, 1988
 3 A-3 Anand Mallick (i)120-B IPC (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. 409/420 IPC 420 IPC
 and Section 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d)
 P.C. Act, 1988
 4 A-4 H.C. Gupta (i) 120-B IPC (i) Sec. 409 IPC (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. 409 / 420 IPC (ii) 13 (1) (c) /
 and Section 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d) 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act,
 P.C. Act, 1988 1988
 5 A-5 K.S. Kropha (i) 120-B IPC 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act , (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. 409 / 420 IPC 1988 and Section 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988
 6 A-6 K.C. Samria (i) 120-B IPC 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act , (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. 409 / 420 IPC 1988 and Section 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988

 All the accused persons however pleaded not guilty to the
charges so framed against them and claimed trial. 18. At this stage it would be worthwhile to mention that as regard

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 17 of 467
 company A-1 M/s VMPL, it was informed by Ld. Counsel Sh. Saugat
Sinha that winding up orders have since been issued against the
company by Hon'ble High Court of Kolkata and an official liquidator
has been appointed by the Hon'ble High Court. Accordingly Ld.
Counsel Sh. Sougat Sinha stated that he has been accordingly
appointed by the Official Liquidator to represent and protect the
interest of company M/s VMPL in the present proceedings. 19. Soon after framing of charges for various offences against the
accused persons and before commencement of recording of
prosecution evidence the accused persons were also called upon u/s
294 Cr.PC to admit/deny the genuineness of documents relied upon
by the prosecution. The accused persons were also given an option
that qua any document if they are unable to admit or deny the
genuineness thereof, for want of knowledge then they may so
mention against it in the remarks column in the list of documents
supplied to them by the prosecution. 20. Prosecution thereafter in order to prove its case examined 22
witnesses. Examination-in-chief of three witnesses namely Sh. V.P.
Sharma, Sh. Ram Naresh and Sh. K.P. Singh was however led by
way of affidavit u/s 296 Cr.PC as their evidence was of formal
character only. Ld. Counsels for the accused persons were thereafter
given liberty to cross-examine the said three witnesses, if they intend
to. However Ld. Counsels for all the accused persons chose not to
cross-examine them. Thus evidence of said three witnesses

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 18 of 467
 remained completely unimpeached at the altar of cross-examination.
Statement of all the accused persons were thereafter recorded u/s
313 Cr.PC. A-2 Vikash Patni, A-4 H.C. Gupta and A-5 K.S. Kropha
however also chose to submit their written statements u/s 313 (5) Cr.PC but the other accused persons did not file any such written
statement u/s 313(5) Cr.PC despite liberty having been given to them.
Accused persons however thereafter also examined seven (7)
witnesses in their defence. Detailed final arguments in the matter
were thereafter heard as were addressed by Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh. Sanjay
Kumar on behalf of prosecution and by Ld. Counsel Sh. Sougat Sinha
for A-1 M/s VMPL, Ld. Counsel Dr. Sushil Kumar Gupta for A-2
Vikash Patni, Ld. Counsels Dr. Sushil Kumar Gupta and Sh. Ratnesh
Deo for A-3 Anand Mallick, Ld. Counsel Sh. Rajat Mathur for A-4
H.C. Gupta, Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi for A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6
K.C. Samria. Written submissions were also filed on behalf of all the
accused persons. (C) EVIDENCE 21. Thus in the aforesaid factual matrix before adverting further it
will be worthwhile to give a brief reference of the deposition of various
prosecution witnesses and defence witnesses so examined in the
present trial. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 19 of 467
 C (i) PROSECUTION WITNESSES

 PW Name and Deposition/Role of the witness in the present case
 No. designation
 of the
 Witness
 PW-1 V.S. Rana, He was posted as Under Secretary, Ministry of Coal
 Deputy from August 2005 till December 2013. He was
 Secretary, associated with the processing of applications of
 Ministry of various private companies received by Ministry of
 Home Affairs Coal seeking allocation of coal blocks including that of
 A-1 M/s VMPL. He accordingly proved various files/
 notings/ documents as were prepared in Ministry of
 Coal either by him or by other officers/ officials of
 Ministry of Coal during that period or
 documents/communications which were received by
 them in MOC during that period. PW-2 Sh. Anil He was the Executive Director, BIADA in the year
 Kumar 2006. He deposed about the allocation of 300 acres
 Thakur, of land to M/s Vikash Metal and Power Ltd. by BIADA
 (Retired) Joint for establishing its proposed integrated steel plant. He
 Director, Govt. also deposed about subsequent cancellation of said
 of Bihar allotment of land to M/s VMPL by BIADA vide order
 dated 21.09.2007 on account of non-payment of cost
 of land and also for non-construction of boundary wall
 around the land by the time limit fixed by BIADA. PW-3 Sh. Arbinda He was a public independent witness who
 Roy, (Retired) accompanied the CBI team in the search operation
 Sr. Manager carried out at the office of M/s VMPL at Hemant Basu,
 Vigilance, Sarani, Kolkata on 22.09.2012. He thus deposed
 UCO Bank about the various documents collected by CBI during
 the said search operation. PW-4 Sh. Devanand In January 2007 he was posted in Darbhanga office of
 Dutta, BIADA and was looking after the dispatch section. He
 (Retired) Area had posted the cancellation order of land issued by
 Incharge, BIADA dated 21.09.2007 to M/s VMPL by registered
 BIADA post and had made necessary entry in the dispatch
 register. He also had pasted the postal receipt of the
 letter addressed to M/s VMPL in the dispatch register. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 20 of 467
 PW-5 Sh. Raj Kumar He was the public independent witness who joined
 Handa, Dy. SP T.P. Singh of CBI in the search operation
 (Retired) carried out at the residence of accused Anand Mallick
 Head Clerk, on 22.09.2012. He thus deposed about the various
 Vigilance documents collected by CBI during the said search
 Department, operation. SDMC
 PW-6 Sh. Sulpani He was the public independent witness who joined
 Chaudhari, CBI officers in the search operation of a flat at AJC
 (Retired) Sr. Bose Road, Kolkata belonging to Akash Patni, Vimal
 Manager, Patni and A-2 Vikash Patni as was carried out on
 PNB, Kolkata 22.09.2012. He thus deposed about the various
 documents collected by CBI during the said search
 operation. PW-7 Sh.Manas In January 2007 he was posted as Assistant in the
 Kumar office of Coal Controller, Kolkata. He deposed that in
 (Retired) January 2007 he alongwith his three colleagues from
 Assistant from the office of Coal Controller had come to MOC Delhi
 the office of on the directions of his senior officers. At MOC the
 Coal officers told them to report at Scope Minar, Laxmi
 Controller, Nagar office. He further deposed that at Laxmi Nagar
 Kolkatta office, Sh. R.S. Negi, an official of MOC asked them
 to segregate the various applications already received
 from different applicant companies into 5 sets i.e. for
 CMPDIL, MOC, Ministries and State Governments. He further deposed that beside doing the aforesaid
 work of segregating they did not undertake any other
 work. He also deposed that while R.S. Negi from
 MOC was supervising their work, V.S. Rana (PW-1)
 also visited them on 2-3 occasions. He also staed that
 on one occasion even A-5 K.S. Kropha also met them
 and told them to complete the work assigned to them.
 He also deposed that subsequently upon completion
 of work he alongwith his colleagues had written a
 request dated 08.02.2007 for grant of honorarium of
 Rs. 5000/- per person and the same was given to Sh. R.S. Negi by them. PW-8 Sh. Sumanta He was LDC in the office of Coal Controller, Kolkata. Biswas, UDC He deposed that in July 2007, he alongwith his three
 from the colleagues from the office of Coal Controller had
 office of Coal come to MOC office, New Delhi and from there Sh. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 21 of 467
 Controller, R.S. Negi and Sh. V.S. Rana had taken them to
 Kolkatta Scope Minar, Laxmi Nagar Office. He further stated
 that at Laxmi Nagar office they were asked to arrange
 the applications in alphabetical order and accordingly
 they did no other work. He also deposed that
 subsequently in the month of August 2007 he
 alongwith three other officials of the office of Coal
 Controller again reported at the office of MOC, New
 Delhi and on this occasion they were simply asked to
 flag the balance sheets as were available in the
 various applications and they accordingly did so. PW-9 Sh. Jaish He was an officer of United Bank of India, Kaushambi
 Kumar Branch, Ghaziabad, UP. In February 2015 on the
 Bhasin, Dy. request of IO Insp. Rajbir Singh he had provided him
 Manager, the original account opening form and other identity
 United Bank documents of A-3 Anand Mallick as were available in
 of India the bank records with respect to saving bank account
 of Anand Mallick as was maintained in their bank. PW-10 Ms. Vini She was initially posted as Director and thereafter as
 Mahajan, Joint Secretary in PMO from 2006 to 2008. She was
 Additional associated with the processing of various files in PMO
 Chief regarding Coal Block Allocation matters and
 Secretary accordingly proved the same. She also deposed that
 (Health), Govt. after recommendation of 36th Screening Committee
 of Punjab meeting were received in PMO from MOC then
 Principal Secretary to the PM had discussed the
 matter with Secretary (Coal) and Secretary (Steel) on
 16.07.2008 and in which meeting it was confirmed
 that the proposals were based strictly on merits of the
 applicants, including the recommendations of the
 state governments where the blocks are located. She
 had accordingly put up a note dated 16.07.2008 in file
 Ex. PW 28/C (colly) (D-120) and pursuant to which
 Hon'ble Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh as
 Minister (Coal) approved the recommendations of
 36th Screening Committee on 17.07.2008 subject to
 consideration of certain issues relating to Urtan,
 Behraband (North) Extension and Vijay Central coal
 block and also that MOC may satisfy itself that there
 is no undue delay in development of any earlier
 allotted coal blocks to the allocatee companies.
 She further deposed that the fact as to whether

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 22 of 467
 proposals were based on merit or not were however
 not got verified in PMO. PW-11 Sh. Rahul He was operation head in Axis Bank, Swasthya Vihar
 Tyagi, Branch, Delhi. In March 2015 he had handed over to
 Operation CBI original account opening form of saving bank A/c
 Head, Axis of Anand Mallick alongwith other identity documents
 Bank Noida of Anand Mallick as were available in their records
 Branch with respect to saving bank A/C of Anand Mallick. PW-12 Sh. N.R. He was posted as Director Ministry of Steel from
 Dash, October 2006 till October 2011 and was Incharge of
 Executive ID Wing i.e. Industrial Development Wing. He was
 Director, associated with the processing of applications of
 Railway various applicant companies including that of M/s
 Board, Delhi VMPL as were received in Ministry of Steel from
 Ministry of Coal for obtaining their views/ comments
 regarding allotment of captive coal blocks. Under his
 signatures the comments of Ministry of Steel placing
 various applicant companies under different
 categories as were devised by Ministry of Steel were
 communicated to Ministry of Coal. He also deposed
 that M/s VMPL was kept in category-VI. He also
 deposed that no comparative statement detailing the
 inter-se priority of various applicant companies was
 provided by MOC to the members of the Screening
 Committee in the meeting held on 03.07.2008. PW-13 Sh. A Sanjay He was Under Secretary, MOC, Government of India
 Sahay, from November 2012 till 01.07.2015. Vide letter dated
 Director 26.03.2014 he had provided IO Insp. Rajbir Singh,
 (Personnel) copy of joint allocation letter dated 06.10.2009 issued
 South Delhi, by MOC qua allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block
 MCD in favour of six joint allocatee companies including
 M/s VMPL. He also provided copy of letter dated
 14.02.2014 vide which allocation of Moira-Madhujore
 coal block in favour of all the six joint allocatee
 companies was canceled by MOC. He was also
 associated with the proceedings which finally resulted
 in de-allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in
 favour of all the six joint allocatee companies. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 23 of 467
 PW-14 Sh. Shashi From December 2005 till March 2011 he was posted
 Ranjan as Dy. Secretary/Director in DIPP. He had
 Kumar, IAS, accordingly attended meetings of 36 th Screening
 Jt. Secretary Committee in MOC including the final meeting held on
 in the 03.07.08. He deposed that in the said meeting he had
 Department of reiterated the recommendation of DIPP qua Moira-
 Telecommunic Madhujore coal block as were already communicated
 ation, Govt. of to MOC. He further deposed that 36th Screening
 India Committee had recommended joint allocation of
 Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of six applicant
 companies including M/s VMPL. PW-15 Sh. Ranjan He deposed that on 07.02.08 he had accompanied A- Barma, 2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick to the
 Chartered Screening Committee meeting held in MOC. He
 Accountant deposed that at that time he had read out the
 presentation before the Screening Committee on
 behalf of M/s VMPL. He also deposed that as the
 presentation was in English so on the request of Vimal
 Kumar Patni i.e. father of A-2 Vikash Patni he had
 only come to the Screening Committee to read out the
 presentation which was in English and especially
 since Vikash Patni was not proficient in English. He
 also claimed that some feed-back form which was
 already filled up and signed was also brought by the
 other persons and was submitted to Screening
 Committee. He however but claimed ignorance as
 regard the details filled therein. PW-16 Sh. Yogesh He was a Chartered Accountant working in a firm M/s
 Gupta, S. Jaykishan. The said firm was the Statutory Auditor
 Chartered of M/s VMPL from 2003 to 2011. He accordingly
 Accountant proved the audited balance sheets of M/s VMPL as
 were annexed with the application Ex. P-96 (Colly)
 (D-8) of the company submitted to MOC seeking
 allocation of a coal block. He also identified the
 balance sheets of the company M/s VMPL i.e. Ex. P- 80 (Colly) (D-87) as were collected by CBI during the
 course of investigation. He also identified the stamp of
 his firm M/s S. Jaykishan beside also identifying his
 own signatures and that of his partner Sh. B.K.
 Newatia on the said balance sheets. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 24 of 467
 PW-17 Sh. Rajkishan He was Under Secretary, DOPT, Government of India. Vats, Under He proved the sanction u/s 19 PC Act, 1988 accorded
 Secretary in by the competent sanctioning authority with respect to
 Department of necessary prosecution of A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6
 Personnel and K.C. Samria for the offences u/s 13 (2) r/w 13 (1) (d)
 Training, Govt. and for any other offences punishable under other
 of India provisions of law in respect of said offences by the
 Court of Competent Jurisdiction. PW-18 Dr. Sabya During the year 2007-08 he was Secretary,
 Sachi Sen, Commerce and Industries, Government of West
 (Retired) Bengal. He proved the various recommendations as
 Commissioner were sent to MOC by Government of West Bengal
 General Land qua allocation of coal blocks including Moira-
 Reforms and Madhujore coal block situated in state of West
 Additional Bengal. He also deposed that in the Screening
 Chief Committee meetings Sh. Bhaskar Khulbe, the then
 Secretary, Advisor Industries, Government of West Bengal had
 Govt of West represented the Government of West Bengal. He also
 Bengal. deposed that subsequent to Screening Committee
 meeting held on 03.07.08, Sh. Bhaskar Khulbe had
 written a letter dated 04.07.08, Ex. PW 18/C to K.S.
 Kropha, Joint Secretary, Coal mentioning therein the
 end use capacity of the companies in West Bengal
 who were recommended for allocation by the
 Screening Committee on 03.07.08 and requested that
 the share allocated to each of the said companies
 may be indicated so that the same may be conveyed
 to Commerce and Industries Department,
 Government of West Bengal. He further stated that in
 the said communication dated 04.07.08 the names of
 six (6) companies were mentioned but the name of
 M/s VMPL was not mentioned. PW-19 IO Inspector, He was the main investigating Officer of the case. He
 Rajbir Singh deposed extensively about the investigation carried
 out by him and also about the collection of various
 documents from different authorities by him during the
 course of investigation. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 25 of 467
 PROSECUTION WITNESSES WHOSE EVIDENCE WAS LED BY WAY OF
 AFFIDAVITS U/S 296 CR. PC. Sharma, Retired Ministry of Coal in the year 2012. In the year 2012 he
 Section Officer, too had handed over various files/ documents of MOC
 CA-1, Section, to Dy. SP S.P. Rana CBI and who seized them vide
 Ministry of Coal production-cum-receipt memo dated 18.06.2012 (D- 16) during the course of preliminary inquiry No. PE
 219-2012-E-0002 registered by CBI. 3 K.P. Singh, He was Incharge Malkhana, EO-1, CBI, New Delhi. I/c Malkhana, He proved the relevant entries of the register
 CBI, EO-I maintained in the malkhana by him vide which various
 files/documents/memos were deposited with him by
 various CBI officers initially during the course of
 preliminary enquiry and subsequently during the
 course of investigation. CBI, EO-I, New Grace Industries Ltd. by 34th Screening Committee of
 Delhi MOC. He was examined as regard statement u/s
 161 Cr.PC of Sh. Prem Raj Kuar, the then Section
 (examined on Officer, MOC recorded by him during the course of
 behalf of A-5 K. investigation of the said other case.
 S. Kropha)

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 26 of 467
 DW-2 M. R. Atrey, He was though the initial IO of the present case but
 Inspector, EO-I, was also associated with the preliminary enquiry
 CBI, New Delhi conducted by CBI prior to registration of the present
 case against M/s VMPL. He deposed that during the
 (examined on course of PE he had verified various claims made by
 behalf of A-3, company M/s VMPL in its application and the feed-
 Anand Mallick) back form and in this regard photocopies of various
 documents were handed over to him by Anand
 Mallick and Vikash Patni. After registration of the
 present case he had only issued the necessary
 authorisation in favour of different CBI officers for
 conducting search and seizure operation at different
 places. DW-3 Ms. Saswati She was senior Manager (Legal) in Bengal
 Poddar, Sr. Aerotropolis Projects Ltd. at Kolkata. She was
 Manager (Legal), examined so as to prove that the area falling under
 Bengal Moira-Madhujore coal block was in fact overlapping
 Aerotropolis with the area acquired by Government of West
 Projects Ltd., Bengal for the Aerotropolis Projects.
 Kolkata
 (examined on
 behalf of A-2,
 Vikash Patni)
 DW-4 Arun Kumar He was Assistant Land Acquisition Officer Purba
 Dhar, Assistant Burdwan District, West Bengal. He had produced
 Land Acquisiton copy of various notifications issued by Government
 Officer at Purba of West Bengal u/s 4 and Section 6 of Land
 Burdwan District, Acquisition Act, 1894 with respect to various parcels
 West Bengal of land as were acquired by Government for
 establishing and developing an Airport at Andel
 (examined on District Burdwan. He also produced a chart showing
 behalf of A-2, comprehensively at one place the details of parcels
 Vikash Patni) of land which were acquired by way of various
 notifications u/s 4 , Land Acquisition Act, 1894 by
 Government of West Bengal. DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe, He was the then Industrial Advisor, Government of
 Secretary PMO, West Bengal. He had attended both 35 th and 36th
 Govt. of India Screening Committee meetings in MOC as a
 (examined on representative of Government of West Bengal. He
 behalf of A-4 accordingly deposed about the proceedings so
 H.C. Gupta) conducted in the various meetings attended by him

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 27 of 467
 and the final recommendation made by 36 th
 Screening Committee. DW-6 Shivraj Sing, He was the then Chief Secretary, Government of
 Retired IAS Chattisgarh. He had attended 36th Screening
 officer of Committee meeting held on 03.07.08 as a
 Chattisgarh representative of Government of Chhattisgarh. He
 Cadre. accordingly deposed about the proceedings which
 took place in the said meeting and the final
 (examined on recommendations made by the Screening
 behalf of A-4 Committee. H.C. Gupta)
 DW-7 Prem Raj Kuar He was the then Section Officer of CA-I Section,
 Deputy MOC. He was examined as regard his statement
 Secretary in recorded u/s 161 Cr.PC by DW-1 Insp. Jitender
 Department of Sharma during the investigation of the case
 Consumer registered against M/s Grace Industries Ltd. He was
 Affairs, Govt. of also examined as regard the scrutiny of the
 India application if undertaken by MOC with respect to
 (examined on applications received qua 34th Screening Committee.
 behalf of A-5 K.
 S. Kropha) 22. After having briefly mentioned the deposition of various
prosecution witnesses and defence witnesses as were examined
during the course of trial, it will be now appropriate to briefly mention
the rival contentions of both prosecution as well as that of Ld.
Counsels for the accused persons. The deposition of the aforesaid
prosecution and defence witnesses shall be however referred to in
detail wherever required in the later part of the present judgment. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 28 of 467
 (D) ARGUMENTS
D (i) Arguments on behalf of Prosecution 23. It was vehemently argued by Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh. Sanjay Kumar
that the present case is a classic example of collusion between
private parties and public servants involved in the allocation process
of Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL. It was
submitted that not only in its application submitted to MOC, the
company M/s VMPL had misrepresented about the status and stage
of its progress made towards establishing the proposed integrated
steel project by falsely continuing to represent that it has been alloted
300 acres of land by BIADA but it also misrepresented about its
financial strength i.e. turnover, profit and net-worth by mentioning
financial figures of other companies. It was also submitted that as per
the guidelines governing allocation of captive coal blocks issued by
MOC, the applicant company M/s VMPL was not authorised to
mention the financial figures of any other company as it was neither a
Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) nor a Joint Venture company. It was
also submitted that even the entire application as was submitted to
MOC was completely silent that M/s VMPL was in any manner related
to Impex Group of Companies much less was a company of Impex
Group. It was further submitted by Ld. Sr. PP Sh. Sanjay Kumar that
in fact from the records of Government of Bihar, it is apparent that
M/s VMPL never intended to establish any integrated steel plant in
Bihar much less in District Begusarai and had changed the very
proposed end use project by representing to Government of Bihar
that they now intend to establish a power plant of 2000 MW capacity. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 29 of 467
 It was also submitted by Ld. Sr. P.P. that from the aforesaid facts, it is
crystal clear that the applicant company M/s VMPL and its directors
and officers were having guilty intention from the beginning itself to
cheat MOC, Government of India and thereby obtaining allocation of
a captive coal block in favour of the company. It was submitted that
the company never disclosed before 36 th Screening Committee that it
is no longer interested in establishing the proposed integrated steel
plant. 24. As regard the role of MOC officers, it was submitted that the
said officers did not ensure that the applications so received by MOC
were got duly checked for their eligibility and completeness before
copies thereof were sent to various stakeholders. It was submitted
that from the evidence led on record by prosecution, it has been
clearly established that accused MOC officers were well aware that
the applications have not been so checked for their eligibility and
completeness in MOC. It was also submitted that no project report
was in fact filed with the application and accordingly the application of
of M/s VMPL was liable to be perse rejected. It was also submitted
that even if it is presumed for the sake of arguments that company
M/s VMPL was entitled to use the figures of financial strength of
Impex Group of companies then also the audited annual
accounts/reports of the said companies were not annexed with the
application and on this score also, the application was liable to be
rejected in MOC itself on account of being incomplete. It was also
submitted by Ld. Sr. P.P. that despite company M/s VMPL having
been not recommended by the coal bearing state i.e. state of West

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 30 of 467
 Bengal for allocation of any coal block much less for Moira-Madhujore
coal block and at the same time Ministry of Steel had put M/s VMPL
under category-VI, so there was no reason as to why the Screening
Committee could have recommended the name of M/s VMPL for
allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block. It was also submitted by Ld.
Sr. P.P. that despite the company M/s VMPL having applied for
allocation of a coal block for its captive use in the integrated steel
plant to be established in Bihar and the 36 th Screening Committee
having also recommended it for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal
block for its proposed plant in Bihar but for reasons best known to the
accused MOC officers, final allocation letter was issued jointly to six
allocatee companies including M/s VMPL for Moira-Madhujore coal
block stating that the coal block has been allocated to M/s VMPL for
its proposed project at Bihar and also for its existing plant at West
Bengal. 25. It was thus submitted by Ld. Sr. P.P. that the aforesaid
circumstances clearly proves the existence of a criminal conspiracy
amongst the accused persons. It was also submitted that here is a
case where actions of accused MOC officers goes beyond the stage
of carelessness, negligence and culpability in their actions is evident
on the face of record. 26. In the light of aforesaid submissions, it was submitted by Ld.
Sr. P.P. that the prosecution has been clearly successful in proving its
case against all the six accused persons for the various charges
framed against them. All the six accused persons were thus prayed to

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 31 of 467
 be convicted. 27. In support of his submissions Ld. Senior P.P. placed reliance
upon the following case law: D (ii) Arguments on behalf of company A-1 M/s VMPL. 28. It was submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Sougat Singha for A-1
M/s VMPL that the company has since gone in liquidation and an
Official Liquidator has been appointed by Hon'ble High Court of
Calcutta. It was accordingly submitted that throughout the present

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 33 of 467
 proceedings, the company has been represented by the said Official
Liquidator and whose primary job is to protect the interest of the
company. It was submitted by him that in case, company A-1 M/s
VMPL is held guilty of any offence whatsoever then no fine ought to
be imposed upon the company and even under the law no fine can
be imposed upon such a company which has since gone in
liquidation. 29. In support of his submissions Ld. Counsel for A-1 M/s VMPL
placed reliance on the following case law: 30. It was submitted by Ld. Counsel Dr. Sushil Kumar Gupta on
behalf of A-2 Vikash Patni that prosecution has miserably failed in
proving its case for any of the offence for which charges have been
framed against the accused. It was submitted that there was no
misrepresentation at all qua any of the information mentioned in the
application. It was rather argued that prosecution has sought to place
reliance upon the incomplete documents in as much as from the
evidence led on record by the prosecution itself it stands well proved
that not only the Techno Economic Feasibility Report (TEFR) was

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 34 of 467
 duly submitted along with the application of M/s Vikash Metal &
Power Ltd but even the balance sheet of M/s Impex Ferotech was
also duly annexed. While referring to the deposition of PW 12 Sh.
N.R. Dash, Director, Ministry of Steel, it was submitted that while
placing M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd under category-VI it was well
to the knowledge of Ministry of Steel officers that the existing capacity
of the company as was mentioned in the application as being 0.13
MT was at Purulia, West Bengal and not in Begusarai, Bihar where
the proposed end use plant was to be established. It was submitted
that PW-12 N.R. Dash though stated that Ministry of Steel placed
company M/s VMPL under category VI since its existing and
proposed capacity were not at the same place, but it was submitted
that such an explanation was contrary to internal guidelines issued by
Ministry of Steel itself. It was stated that as per the criteria laid down
by Ministry of Steel, the company M/s VMPL ought to have been
placed in category II and not in category VI. 31. Ld. Counsel also referred to the statement recorded u/s 161
Cr. PC of PW 12 N.R. Dash to highlight that the application of M/s
Vikash Metal & Power Ltd was considered by Ministry of Steel while
also referring to the TEFR as was attached with the application. It
was thus submitted that from the aforesaid circumstances, it was
clear that M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd had duly annexed TEFR with
its application and its application was complete in terms of the
guidelines issued by MOC. 32. As regard the figure of net-worth mentioned in the application

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 35 of 467
 beside that of profit and turnover it was submitted that in accordance
with the Accounting Standard-18 the figure of turnover and profit were
mentioned as that of M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd and M/s Impex
Ferrotech which was an associate company being managed by the
same management. It was further submitted that as in accordance
with Accounting Standard-18 for the purposes of calculating the net-
worth the figure of associate companies could not have been
considered so it was only the net-worth of M/s Vikash Metal & Power
Ltd which was mentioned in the application. It was however also
pointed out that the figure of net-worth of M/s Vikash Metal & Power
Ltd was also mentioned on a lower side at Rs. 60 crore even though
from the balance sheet attached, the figure was more than Rs. 64
crore. 33. It was thus submitted by Ld. Defence Counsel that it has
clearly come on record that the application as is available in D-8 is an
incomplete application and thus on the basis of said incomplete
application no inference can be drawn. It was also submitted that
even otherwise for drawing any conclusion from the application the
same ought to have been read as a whole and not in piecemeal as is
sought to be done by the prosecution. 34. It was also submitted that during the course of search
operation carried out at the registered office of M/s Vikash Metal &
Power Ltd, a copy of presentation was also recovered. While referring
to the contents of the said presentation as is available in D-33, it was
submitted that the same is the copy of presentation which was made

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 36 of 467
 before the Screening Committee on behalf of M/s Vikash Metal &
Power Ltd. It was pointed out that in the presentation it was stated
that the existing capacity of sponge iron existed at Purulia, West
Bengal. It was also submitted by Ld. Defence Counsel that as per the
guidelines governing allocation of coal blocks issued by Ministry of
Coal the application was also to be submitted in soft copy in a CD.
While referring to a reply given by CMPDIL to CBI during the course
of investigation as is available in D-44 [Ex. P-37 (colly)] it was
submitted that CMPDIL had considered the details provided by the
applicant companies including M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd as was
available in a CD supplied to them. It was submitted that PW 19 IO
Inspector Rajbir Singh has admitted that except collecting copies of
application from Ministry of Coal he had not collected the same from
any other authority be it the Ministry of Steel, State of West Bengal,
State of Bihar or CMPDIL. It was thus submitted that the CD
submitted by M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd along with the application
has also not been placed on record by the prosecution. It was thus
submitted that it was the claim of M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd that
all the information/documents as were required to be filed along with
the application were there in the CD be that TEFR or balance sheet
of M/s Impex Ferrotech. It was thus reiterated that on the basis of
incomplete document no inference at all can be drawn against the
accused persons. Similarly, it was argued that no inference can even
be drawn against the accused public servants as doubts have clearly
emerged on record that the documents relied upon by the
prosecution during the trial of the case are not complete. It was thus

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 37 of 467
 submitted that accused Vikash Patni (A-2) deserves the benefit of
doubt in this regard. 35. Ld. Counsel Sh. Sushil Kr. Gupta while referring to the form of
feed back Ex. P-98 (Colly) also submitted that no misrepresentation
was even made in the said feed back form. As regard the figures of
net-woth as on 31.03.2006 or as on 31.03.2007 as were mentioned in
the said feedback form it was submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Sushil Kr.
Gupta that not only during the course of investigation PW 15 Ranjan
Barma stated the calculation by which networth of the company
seems to have been calculated by the company officials but also
during the course of his deposition in the Court he demonstrated as
to how the networth seems to have been calculated by the company
and had conclusively shown that figures of networth mentioned in the
feedback form were correctly mentioned by the company on the basis
of said formula. It was again reiterated that while the application
contained relevant figures of networth for the year 2005-06 as being
Rs. 60 crores but in the feedback form networth figure was mentioned
after undertaking proper calculation. It was thus submitted that there
was no misrepresentation of any nature whatsoever in mentioning of
networth in the feedback form. 36. As regard the issue of land, it was submitted by Ld. Counsel
that admittedly 300 acres of land was allotted in favour of company
by BAIDA. A number of correspondences in this regard were shown
as having been undertaken between the company and BAIDA before
allocation of said land. It was also submitted that in the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 38 of 467
 communications made by the company it was duly clarified that till the
time any iron ore mine or coal mine is allotted, it will not be in a
position to take any action qua allocation of land though initially a
sum of Rs. 6 lacs as was demanded by BAIDA was duly deposited by
the company. It was also submitted that circumstances both before
and after impugned allocation of land clearly demonstrate that M/s
VMPL had all good intention to establish the proposed steel project
and it was always willing to undertake all necessary formalities for
allocation of land only with the rider that keeping in view the market
conditions it would not have been viable for the company to make any
further payment to BAIDA or incur any other expenditure qua
construction of boundary wall till the time an iron ore mine and coal
block is allotted to it which were essential raw materials for running a
sponge iron plant. 37. Ld. Counsel while referring to other communications
undertaken by company with BAIDA and Department of Industries,
Bihar of which BAIDA was a part, pointed that M/s VMPL had also
intended to establish a power plant of 2000 MW capacity and in this
regard also entered into an agreement with Bihar State Electricity
Board. 38. It was further submitted that prosecution has also miserably
failed in proving that company M/s VMPL and much less A-2 Vikash
Patni had ever gained knowledge about cancelleation of said
allotment of 300 acres of land. It was submitted that though factum of
recovery of cancellation order of land issued by BAIDA during the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 39 of 467
 search operation from the corporate office of M/s VMPL is not
disputed but it was also pointed out that during the course of
investigation itself, it was communicated to the IO that as registered
office of the company at Chittaranjan Park was under renovation so
all the correspondence stood diverted to corporate office at Hemant
Basusarai. It was further submitted that from mere recovery of
impugned letter from inside a file containing 86 pages no knowledge
can be attributed to the company or any officer/official that they
gathered knowledge of any such letter issued by BAIDA cancelling
allocation of land to the company. It was also submitted that even the
cancellation letter mentions that if desired the company may ask for
renewal of allotment of land but the company never undertook any
such steps or asked for refund of Rs. 6 lacs as company did not
gather any knowledge till December 2008 that land allotted has been
cancelled. 39. Ld. Counsel also referred to a letter written to the Chief
Minister of Bihar in the month of March 2008 by Sh. Vimal Kumar
Patni, Chairman, M/s VMPL. It was submitted that soon after
company gathered knowledge of cancellation of land the company
took necessary steps to meet Chief Minister of Bihar so that problems
being faced by the company could be addressed. It was also
submitted that from the documents of the prosecution seized, it has
come on record that the company was even facing law and order
problems in construction of boundary wall in the impugned land even
in the year 2012. It was also submitted that from the dispatch register
record of BAIDA as have been proved by PW-4 Devanand Dutta, it

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 40 of 467
 was clear that the said cancellation letter was sent to the registered
office of the company which was under renovation and thus there
was no way that the company which was operating at that time from
its corporate office could have known about the same. 40. As regard knowledge of Vikash Patni about the contents
mentioned in the feedback form, it was submitted that from the
deposition of PW-15 Ranjan Barma, it was clear that the feedback
form when it was brought to the Screening Committee meeting was
already typed. It was submitted that like PW-15 Ranjan Barma, A-2
Vikash Patni had also gone to the Screening Committee meeting only
for the purposes of making representation. It was thus submitted that
prosecution has failed to prove any malafides on the part of A-2
Vikash Patni in making any misrepresentation to the Screening
Committee. 41. It was further submitted on behalf of A-2 Vikash Patni by Ld.
Counsel Dr. Sushil Kumar Gupta that prosecution has also failed to
prove that any inducement was caused to Screening Committee,
Ministry of Coal on account of any representation made by M/s VMPL
much less on account of allotment of land, as the same was never
considered as a relevant factor in recommending allocation of a coal
block in favour of any applicant company. It was further submitted
that during the course of cross-examination of PW 1 V.S. Rana the
then Under Secretary, it has come on record that there were number
of companies which were considered by the Screening Committee
and even recommendations for allocation of captive coal blocks by

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 41 of 467
 the Screening Committee was made in favour of certain companies
which were not having any land with them. It was also submitted that
from the evidence led by the prosecution, it has also come on record
that the feedback form submitted by various companies were neither
considered by the Screening Committee nor by the Ministry of Coal
and were not even sent to PMO when the recommendations of
Screening Committee were sent for approval from Prime Minister as
Minister of Coal. It was thus submitted that in these circumstances it
cannot be stated that the land which though was one of the factor
towards showing progress made by a company towards establishing
the proposed end use project was either taken into consideration or
was a factor which induced Screening Committee, Ministry of Coal in
making recommendation of allocation of a coal block in favour of M/s
VMPL. 42. As regard another important ingredient of the offence of
cheating i.e. delivery of property it was submitted that from the
evidence led by the prosecution as well as by the accused persons in
their defence it has clearly been established that initial offer letter
issued in favour of six joint allocatee companies was defective in as
much as it considered an enhanced mine capacity of 4 million tonnes
of Moira Madhujore coal block instead of actual mining capacity of 2
million tonnes and as a result enhanced amount of bank guarantee
was asked for by Ministry of Coal from the joint allocattee companies.
It was also submitted that from the evidence led on record it has
come on record that area of proposed allocatted coal block
overlapped with that of the Aerotropolis Project of Government of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 42 of 467
 West Bengal and the area overlapping was to the tune of 83% of the
area of coal block in question. Under the said Aerotropolis project an
airport was to be established. It was submitted that from the notings
on the files of Ministry of Coal i.e. in file Ex. P-10 (colly) (D-14) it is
clear that till the year 2009 the issue of bank guarantee was not
resolved and the issue of overlapping of area of impugned coal block
with the Aerotropolis Project was also not resolved even till the time
coal block in question was deallocated by Ministry of Coal in the year
2014. It was in these circumstances submitted that the issuance of
any such offer letter or even any final allocation letter by Ministry of
Coal on 06.10.2009 cannot be termed as "property" within the
meaning of Section 420 IPC as the very letter so issued was
defective and could not have been put to any use. It was submitted
that the said defective offer letter or allocation letter was of no value
in the hands of allocattee companies. It was also submitted that in
fact no wrongful loss could have been caused to any one by not
developing any such coal block by joint allocattee companies
including M/s VMPL as land falling in the said coal block was
acquired for the airport project and no one thus could have mined the
said coal block. It was further submitted that wrongful loss was rather
caused to M/s VMPL on account of misrepresentation made by
officers of West Bengal in Screening Committee as on the date of
final meeting of 36th Screening Committee meeting held on
03.07.2008 it was well to the knowledge of officers of Department of
Industries that the land falling in Moira Madhujore Coal Block has
been identified for the said Aerotropolis project and a joint venture

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 43 of 467
 agreement Ex. PW 3/B (colly) in this regard was also entered into by
WIMBC which is a part of Department of Industries, Government of
West Bengal. Reference in this regard was made to the Deposition of
DW 3 Ms. Saswati Poddar. It was thus submitted that even at the
time of final Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.2008 it
could have been disclosed by the officers of Government of West
Bengal who were present in the Screening Committee as members
thereof that the said coal block i.e. Moira Madhujore can no longer be
mined as the said land has been identified for the development of an
airport. 43. In these circumstances, it was submitted that prosecution has
miserably failed to prove the important ingredients of the offence of
cheating against the accused persons. Even as regard the offence of
criminal conspiracy while referring to the observations of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in "State through Superintendent of Police,
CBI/SIT Vs. Nalini", 1999 (5) SCC 235, it was submitted that under
the garb of the charge of criminal conspiracy i.e. section 120-B IPC
any evidence which may be admissible against some of the accused
cannot be automatically read against other accused persons unless
prosecution shows that the said accused was also knowingly involved
with the common object of the said conspiracy and so acted in
furtherance of common object of the said criminal conspiracy.
Prosecution was also stated to have miserably failed in proving on
record that there was any meeting of minds amongst the various
accused persons which could lead to hatching of any criminal
conspiracy amongst them. The charge of criminal conspiracy was

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 44 of 467
 thus also stated to have been not made out against A-2 Vikash Patni
and prosecution was thus stated to have miserably failed in proving
its case against the accused. A-2 Vikash Patni was thus prayed to be
acquitted. 44. Ld. Counsel for A-2 Vikash Patni also placed reliance on the
following case law in support of his submissions. 45. As regard A-3 Anand Mallick, it was submitted by Ld. Counsel
Dr. Sushil Kumar Gupta that the only role attributed to accused Anand
Mallick by the prosecution is that he acted as an authorized
representative on behalf of company i.e. M/s VMPL and the
application form as well as the feedback form were submitted under
his signatures. In this regard it was submitted that as per the
guidelines issued by Ministry of Coal governing allocation of coal
blocks it was clearly mandated that the applicant company was to
appoint a person authorized to sign on behalf of the applicant
company while dealing with any or all matters connected with
allocation of coal blocks and that the said documents should be duly
signed and stamped by the company secretary of the company. It
was submitted that as per the guidelines itself, in the absence of the
said documents the application of the company was liable to be
summarily rejected as being incomplete. It was submitted that during
the course of trial, it has come on record that A-3 Anand Mallick was
simply appointed as an authorized signatory on behalf of A-1 VMPL,
since he was a resident of Delhi NCR and was thus readily available
to deal with all the queries which may be raised by Ministry of Coal. It
was thus submitted that accused Anand Mallick simply signed various
documents as and when received from the company which was
based in Kolkata. In these circumstances, it was submitted that the
only issue which remains to be looked into is as to whether the acts
of A-3 Anand Mallick were bonafide or not. It was however stated that

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 46 of 467
 from the evidence led by the prosecution it can not be concluded that
A-3 Anand Mallick was acting with any malafide intention or malice in
undertaking any such act. 46. As regard the recovery of copy of cancellation order dated
21.09.2007 of 300 acres of land issued by BIADA with respect to the
land earlier allotted to company M/s VMPL it was submitted that
during the deposition of DW 2 Inspector M.R. Attrey who was
associated with the preliminary enquiry registered by CBI from which
the present case was registered as an offshoot it has come on record
that during the course of preliminary enquiry A-3 Anand Mallick and
A-2 Vikash Patni had joined enquiry on a number of occasions and
had also supplied various documents to him. It was submitted that A-
3 Anand Mallick had himself gone to the office of BIADA to collect
various documents as and when required by CBI and handed over
the same to the CBI during the course of preliminary enquiry. It was
also pointed out that admittedly a search operation was carried out by
CBI after the registration of a regular case and thus recovery of copy
of any such cancellation letter issued by BIADA, which was already
supplied to CBI during the course of preliminary inquiry from the car
of A-3 Anand Mallick in any search operation simply shows that after
supplying all such documents to CBI, copies thereof were kept by A-3
Anand Mallick in his car. It was thus submitted that in these
circumstances no adverse inference can be drawn as against A-3
Anand Mallick with respect to recovery of copy of any such
cancellation letter issued by BIADA. Reference was also made to Section 79 IPC stating that the actions of accused stands well

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 47 of 467
 covered by the provisions of Section 79 IPC as the same were
undertaken by him under mistake of facts. 47. While referring to show cause notice issued by MOC as
available in D-99 it was submitted that in the reply submitted by A-2
Vikash Patni it was stated on behalf of the company that the
cancellation letter was sent by ordinary post. It was thus pointed out
that now prosecution has led evidence to show that the letter in
question was sent by BIADA by registered post and this fact goes to
show that even company was not aware as to by what mode the said
letter was sent by BIADA. It was thus submitted that in these
circumstances no presumption can be drawn as against A-3 Anand
Mallick that he was having any knowledge about cancellation of land
when he sent the feedback form and submitted the same to
Screening Committee, Ministry of Coal. The prosecution was thus
stated to have failed to prove its case against A-3 Anand Mallick and
he was thus prayed to be acquitted. 48. It was also submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Ratnesh Deo for
A-3 Anand Mallick that the role of A-3 Anand Mallick was merely that
of a post office and he signed various documents on behalf of M/s
VMPL to be submitted to Ministry of Coal only because he was the
authorized representative but he neither had any mandate to deal
with MOC on any matter nor had any knowledge of the facts to be
communicated to MOC. It was however submitted that IO had not
carried out any investigation to show that A-3 Anand Mallick was in
Kolkata on the day when the application or feedback form were

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 48 of 467
 prepared. It was submitted that all such documents used to be
received by A-3 Anand Mallick in Delhi from M/s VMPL and he simply
used to forward them to MOC after signing them. As regard the
factum of attending the MOC meeting at the time of presentation and
submission of feedback form it was submitted that A-3 Anand Mallick
attended the said meeting only under the belief that in case the
authorized representative is not present then the Screening
Committee may not even consider the case of VMPL and it was thus
submitted that A-3 Anand Mallick except being present in the
Screening Committee meeting did not play any other role. It was
further submitted that after allocation of land by BIADA there is no
evidence to show that A-3 Anand Mallick ever visited BIADA even till
the stage of cancellation of allotment of land. 49. Ld. Counsels for A-3 Anand Mallick further placed reliance on
the following case law in support of their submissions: 50. It was submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rajat Mathur that
prosecution has miserably failed in proving its case against accused
A-4 H.C. Gupta either for the charge of criminal conspiracy or for the
charge of criminal misconduct. While referring to the note dated
04.11.2006 in D-17 in the file of Ministry of Coal, it was submitted that
on account of past experience and expecting that large number of
applications will be received it was decided that all such applications
be received in Scope Minar, Laxmi Nagar, New Delhi. It was thus
submitted that in accordance with the Provisions of Manual of Office
Procedure reasons for adopting course different from the given
procedure was duly recorded in the noting. It was also submitted that
prosecution is primarily trying to impute the charge of conspiracy on
A-4 H.C. Gupta on the ground that checking of applications for their
eligibility and completeness was deliberately not got conducted
despite having knowledge of the same. While referring to the
deposition of PW 1 V.S. Rana the then Under Secretary, Ministry of
Coal, it was submitted that the said witness is completely unreliable
witness as he apparently made material improvements over his
statement u/s 161 Cr. PC made before the IO during the course of
investigation. It was also submitted that PW 1 V.S. Rana has stated
various facts which were contrary to the written record placed and
proved on record by the prosecution and thus it was submitted that
no oral evidence in contravention of the written record can be held to
be admissible. It was also submitted that from the evidence led by the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 50 of 467
 prosecution and especially from the deposition of PW 1 V.S. Rana it
has been clearly established that to carry out checking of the
applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by Ministry of
Coal governing allocation of coal blocks, was the sole duty of CA-1
Section and in case any difficulty was being faced by them in
complying with the said guidelines then it was mandatry for them to
bring the same to the notice of senior officers by way of written noting
in the file. It was submitted that the deposition of PW 1 V.S. Rana that
he verbally informed the senior officers in this regard cannot be of
any help to the prosecution in proving its case against the accused
persons as there are number of notings available in the file where for
various small matters notings have been put up by the CA-1 Section
and thus there was no reason as to why for such an important
deviation from the given guidelines no noting was put up. It was also
submitted that from the notings available in D-17 Ex. P-13 (colly) it is
clear that when the applications were to be dispatched to various
stakeholders then the noting in this regard did not travel beyond the
desk of PW 1 V.S. Rana and in these circumstances it cannot be
inferred merely on the basis of conjectures and surmises or on the
basis of oral deposition of witnesses that the senior officers of
Ministry of Coal were having knowledge of even dispatch of
applications much less that of applications having been sent without
checking them for their completeness and eligibility. It was also
submitted that PW 1 V.S. Rana in his cross-examination has admitted
that the applications were to be sent to different stakeholders only
after they were found to be complete in accordance with the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 51 of 467
 guidelines issued by Ministry of Coal. While also referring to the
deposition of DW 7 Prem Raj Kuar beside that of PW 1 V.S. Rana, it
was also submitted that CA-1 Section was not required to carry out
any technical evaluation of the applications and thus the claim made
by PW 1 V.S. Rana that due to lack of technical, legal and financial
knowledge they were not in a position to carry out any scrutiny of the
applications was clearly wrong. 51. Ld. Defence Counsel in fact while referring to the deposition
of DW 1 Inspector Jitender Sharma, who was the investigating officer
of another coal block allocation matter i.e. CBI vs Grace Industries
Limited and Ors. , stated that in the said matter it has clearly come on
record that while dealing with the applications received for 34 th
Screening Committee meeting the same were checked in Ministry of
Coal and even two lists of applications were prepared titled "List of
complete applications on first scrutiny" and "List of incomplete
applications found on first scrutiny". It was thus submitted that from
the deposition of PW 1 V.S. Rana it has come on record that the
applications on this occasion i.e. 35 th and 36th Screening Committee
were also dealt with by CA-1 Section as per the past practice. It was
thus submitted that from the past practice, it is thus clear that the
applications were checked on this occasion also. 52. It was also submitted that prosecution has in fact led
contradictory evidence even as regard checking of applications in as
much as PW 1 V.S. Rana stated that only availability of draft of Rs.
10,000/- towards processing of applications was checked beside

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 52 of 467
 giving a cursory glance to the applications. It was however submitted
that in the list prepared qua applications received for 34 th Screening
Committee meeting names of applicant companies were mentioned
in the list of incomplete applications even though the drafts of Rs.
10,000/- were very much available. It was also pointed out that PW 1
V.S. Rana in his deposition stated that no incomplete applications
were received in Ministry of Coal. 53. As regard the meeting held on 11.05.2007 in Ministry of Coal,
it was submitted that firstly there was no reference of the said
meeting in the charges framed against the accused and secondly
even from the minutes of the said meeting, if read along with the
agenda note as has been placed on record by the accused persons
no knowledge of the fact that applications were checked for their
eligibility and completeness by the CA-1 Section can be imputed to
any senior officer including A-4 H.C. Gupta. It was submitted that
mere knowledge even if attributed to the accused persons that the
applications have not been checked cannot per se prove meeting of
any mind with the other co-accused persons so as to prove existence
of any criminal conspiracy, as it was submitted that prior meeting of
minds was a condition sine-qua-non for establishing the charge of
criminal conspiracy. It was also submitted by Ld. Defence Counsel
that the claim of PW 1 V.S. Rana that there was shortage of
manpower and on account of which no checking of applications was
carried out was also wrong as from the evidence led on record by the
prosecution itself it is clear that number of officials from the office of
coal controller were available at different point of time to CA-1

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 53 of 467
 Section, MOC to assist with the work relating to applications received
by it. It was thus submitted that PW 1 V.S. Rana was now trying to
introduce new facts primarily in order to save his own skin as being
Under Secretary, CA-1 Section it was his duty to ensure compliance
of guidelines issued by Ministry of Coal and in case of any difficulty
faced by them to bring it to the notice of senior officers. It was thus
submitted that in the aforesaid circumstances there is no reason to
doubt the correctness/notings and other documents available in
Ministry of Coal files and prosecution cannot be permitted to lead oral
evidence contrary to the contents of said documentary evidence. It
was submitted that prosecution cannot by way of any such oral
deposition made by way of improvement and in contradiction to the
written record impute any knowledge to the accused persons so as to
bring home the charge of criminal conspiracy. It was also submitted
that during the course of investigation of various coal block allocation
matters only it has come to the knowledge of accused persons that
no checking of applications for their eligibility or completeness was
carried out in Ministry of Coal by CA-1 Section. 54. While referring to the observations of Hon'ble Surpeme Court
in the case V.C. Shukla Vs. State, Delhi Administration (1980) 2
SCC 665, Ld. Counsel Sh. Rajat Mathur submitted that mere act of
recommendation cannot amount to an act of criminal conspiracy. It
was also submitted that from the deposition of PW 1 V.S. Rana it has
come on record that though application of M/s VMPL was sent to
State of Bihar but notice of Screening Committee meeting was not
sent inadvertently and this fact came to the notice of Ministry of Coal

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 54 of 467
 officers only during the course of investigation of the present case.
While referring to the deposition of PW 12 N.R. Dash it was submitted
that Ministry of Steel had in fact considered the existence as well as
proposed end use projects of the company both at West Bengal and
Bihar and even this fact was brought to the notice of Ministry of Coal
officers by Ministry of Steel only. It was also pointed out from the
deposition of PW 1 V.S. Rana that in the initial letter of offer, the
allocation of end use plant at West Bengal was inadvertently
mentioned but in the subsequent letter of allocation finally issued, the
allocation of coal block for end use projects both at Bihar and West
Bengal was mentioned. In the light of aforesaid circumstances, it was
submitted that on account of aforesaid inadvertent mistake on the
part of officers of Ministry of Coal, it cannot be concluded that there
was any act of criminal conspiracy committed by them or that there
was any meeting of minds between them and the private parties. It
was also submitted that even the prosecution has failed to prove the
complete chain of circumstances, which may go on to establish the
charge of criminal conspiracy against accused H.C. Gupta. 55. It was also submitted that in the absence of any note of
dissent having been expressed by any of the members of the
Screening Committee much less that by representative of
Government of West Bengal, it is to be presumed that they all had
agreed to the decision taken in the Screening Committee and the
same was taken after due deliberation and discussion and with the
consent of all. It was in this light reference was also made to the
deposition of DW 6 Shiv Raj Singh. Reference was also made to the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 55 of 467
 deposition of PW 12 N.R. Dash that in the meeting members were
free to express their views. Ld. Counsel further submitted that in the
minutes of the meeting discussion qua major
discrepancies/objections were to be recorded and not the entire
discussion. It was also submitted that after signing of
recommendation sheets the members cannot have submitted any
dissent note. In fact it was also pointed out that Government of West
Bengal did not submit any dissent note even after the meeting was
over and this again shows that they were in complete agreement with
the decision taken in the Screening Committee. It was also pointed
out that both PW 12 N.R. Dash and Sh. U.P. Singh Joint Secretary
(Steel) had briefed Sh. R.S. Pandey and who thereafter participated
in the meeting held at PMO qua which PW 10 Ms. Vini Mahajan has
deposed to. 56. While referring to the deposition of PW 18 Sabya Sachi Sen,
it was also submitted by Ld. Counsel that State Government was well
within its powers to change its earlier recommendation. It was also
submitted that PW 18 Sabya Sachi Sen has deposed that Sh.
Bhaskar Kulbey who represented Government of West Bengal in the
Screening Committee used to brief him about the proceedings of the
meeting. It was also submitted that in the Screening Committee
meeting only those States were invited where the coal blocks to be
allotted are situated and not the states where the proposed end use
projects were to be established. 57. As regard the working of 36th Screening Committee meeting,

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 56 of 467
 it was further submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rajat Mathur for A-4 H.C.
Gupta that prosecution has failed to establish that A-4 H.C. Gupta
being Chairman, Screening Committee had any overriding powers
over other members of the Screening Committee or that the said
members were subordinate to the Chairman. It was also submitted
that the signing of recommendation sheets by various members of
the Screening Committee who were representing various State
Governments or Administrative Ministries clearly signifies not only
their presence during the meeting but their agreement with the final
decision also. Moreover, the members of Screening Committee who
were concerned with the matter of M/s VMPL such as officers of
Ministry of Steel or that of State Government of West Bengal can not
now claim that they were not in agreement with the decision taken in
the meeting as the stage of giving any dissent was at the time of
signing recommendation sheets only. It was submitted that Screening
Committee members can not now turn around and state that they
were not in agreement with the decision of the Screening Committee
especially when they failed to give any dissent note or contrary view
either during the meeting or at the time of signing of the
recommendation sheets. It was also submitted that from the evidence
led on record by the prosecution as well as from that of DW-6 Shivraj
Singh and DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe it is clear that there was no
restriction on the members to express their views during the course of
meeting and all members were free to express their views. As regard
the recommendation from State of Bihar, it was submitted that the IO
deliberately withheld the necessary records from this Court even

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 57 of 467
 though Government of Bihar had duly recommended the case of M/s
VMPL for the integrated steel plant as stands reflected from the
document D-30. It was further pointed out that admittedly DW-5
Bhaskar Khulbe who was representing Government of West Bengal
both in 35th and 36th Screening Committee had given a dissenting
note in 35th Screening Committee but as he did not give any such
dissenting note in 36th Screening Committee so it has to be presumed
that there was no dissent on his part qua the said decision and the
decision of Screening Committee was thus a unanimous one. 58. The prosecution was thus stated to have miserably failed in
proving its case qua any of the charges framed against the accused. Accused H.C. Gupta was thus prayed to be acquitted. 59. Ld. Counsel for A-4 H.C. Gupta further placed reliance on the
following case law in support of his submissions: D (vi) Arguments on behalf of A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C.
Samria. 60. It was submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi for A-5 K.S.

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 60 of 467
 Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria that the charges as have been framed
against, the two accused persons pre-supposes certain facts in as
much as that A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria were responsible
for ensuring checking of the applications received in MOC. It was
submitted that from the charge of criminal conspiracy as has been
framed against the accused, it is evident that certain illegal acts or
acts of omission and commission have been attributed to A-5 K.S.
Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria. It was however submitted that
prosecution has miserably failed to lead any evidence to show as to
what such illegal acts were or what such acts of omission and
commission were. It was also submitted that prosecution was duty
bound to point out that any such acts alleged to have been committed
by A-5 K.S. Kropha or by A-6 K.C. Samria were in violation of any
provision of law. It was also submitted that in order to appreciate the
role played by the public servants who were officers of MOC facing
trial in the present case, it is imperative that the circumstances in
which Government of India adopted the policy of allocating the coal
blocks for captive use to private parties engaged in certain specific
end uses be taken into consideration. In order to understand the
arduous job assigned to MOC in the allocation of coal blocks
reference was made to the legislative policy adopted by Government
of India in early 90s. Reference was also made to Allocation of
Business Rules, 1961 beside Transaction of Business Rules, 1961
notified by Government of India to show that though the job of
allocation and exploration of coal blocks was assigned to MOC but
the said working was closely interconnected with the working of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 61 of 467
 Ministry of Power, Ministry of Steel or DIPP as they were respectively
responsible for increasing generation of power, increased production
of iron and steel in the country or for increased production of cement.
While referring to the provisions of Manual of Office Procedure, it was
pointed out that the work relating to allocation of captive coal blocks
was interdependent with other Ministries/departments of Government
of India so it was in these circumstances to have an expedite decision
for allocation of coal blocks that an inter-departmental body i.e. a
Screening Committee was constituted. It was also submitted that as
the various State Governments where different coal blocks were
situated were having control over the said coal blocks under MMDR
Act, 1957 so in order to protect their interest they were also roped in
as members of the Screening Committee. It was thus submitted that
keeping in view the said broad based inter-departmental job assigned
to Screening Committee, its working needs to be understood and
appreciated. It was also submitted that the working of executive wing
of the Government also needs to be understood as different from the
working of Courts of Law or the requirements which are looked for by
Courts of Law while undertaking judicial review of an action
undertaken by the executive wing. It was also submitted that while
judicial review of an executive wing can be undertaken but it is only
the process which can be reviewed and not the end result thereof. It
was submitted that by way of judicial review the Court can not
substitute its own decision in place of the decision arrived at by the
executive. 61. While referring to Transaction of Allocation Rules, 1961 it was

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 62 of 467
 submitted that as per para 4, if the decision of the Screening
Committee was not unanimous then it was incumbent upon various
other departments which were members of the said Screening
Committee to refer the matter to Cabinet as in case of difference of
opinion the Cabinet has been empowered to take a final decision and
no decision can be taken by interdepartmental Committee. It was also
submitted that from the Transaction of Allocation Rules and
Transaction of Business Rules, it was clear that if the job of checking
of applications was to be undertaken by CA Section and the present
accused persons have been arrayed to face the present prosecution
on the ground of lapses on their part in not properly supervising the
functioning of said CA Section then there is no logic as to why only
some of the supervisory officers have been roped in to face trial while
leaving others such as Under Secretary, Section Officer and other
officers of concerned CA Section. It was thus submitted that if at all
the present accused persons are to be held criminally liable for any
act of supervisory lapses on their part then it needs to be spelled out
as to on what criteria only these officers have been singled out while
leaving other officers such as Section Officer and Under Secretary of
the Ministry who admittedly were the Incharge of the concerned
section. Reference was also made to report of CAG on the coal block
allocation matters stating that the same is instructive for
understanding the finer nuances of the present matter. As regard the
functioning of MOC officers, it was also submitted that from the files
of MOC itself it is evident that A-5 K.S. Kropha was a part of team of
officers who had proposed that instead of adopting the Screening

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 63 of 467
 Committee route the competitive bidding route be adopted but the
said proposal put-forth by them was rejected not only by the State
Governments but even at the level of Ministry, Parliamentarians,
other politicians and other Ministries. 62. It was submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi that the
guidelines issued by MOC were only in the nature of opinion to be
followed by the Screening Committee in arriving at its decision since
they were not having any statutory force. Distinction was sought to be
made between guidelines having statutory force and guidelines which
are in the nature of departmental instructions which are only for the
guidance of the officers, but have no binding force. Ld. Counsel
submitted that he is taking alternative argument in the present case
that though guidelines were indeed followed in their letter and spirit
but in case it is found that they were not followed then his argument is
that they were not compulsorily followed as they were not having any
statutory force since they were not issued under Article 77 of
Constitution of India i.e. in the name of President of India. 63. Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi while referring to a book titled
"Shackleton on the law and practice of meetings" tried to differentiate
between the meaning of "Committee" and "Meeting" and also
highlighted various aspects as to how the proceedings of a meeting
are to be conducted right from the stage of convening the meeting.
Ld. Counsel also highlighted as to what all requirements are to be
complied with while convening a meeting. Ld. Counsel further
highlighted the difference between Member Convener and Member of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 64 of 467
 the Screening Committee and as to how minutes of a meeting are to
be recorded. Ld. Counsel while referring to various minutes available
in the records of the present case itself pointed out as to how minutes
of various meetings held in PMO were recorded and the meeting took
place. As regard allocation of Moira Madhujore coal block to M/s
VMPL, Ld. Counsel referred to the recommendation made by
Administrative Ministry i.e. Ministry of Steel and that by State
Government of West Bengal and submitted that on account of lack of
industrial development in the Country and shortage of power and
there being conflicting/different views of Members of various
stakeholders in the Screening Committee some consensus was
sought to be arrived at by the Committee and in that process only M/s
VMPL came to be accommodated for Moira Madhujore coal block. It
was also submitted that the decisions of the Screening Committee
were taken by a majority view and that the Chairman had no
overriding power over the decision of the majority. It was also
submitted that by putting their signatures on the recommendation
sheets, the various members of the Screening Committee agreed to
the decision so taken in the Committee. It was also submitted that the
said decision after it was accepted by the Members by signing on the
recommendation sheets has to be treated in law as decision of the
Screening Committee and cannot be said that the final decision was
taken by the Chairman. It was submitted that Chairman merely
summed up the decision and did not take any independent decision. 64. It was also submitted by Ld. Defence Counsel while referring
to the file of Department of Industries, Government of Bihar i.e. Ex. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 65 of 467
 PW P-26 (colly) (D-30) that from the documents available in the said
file, it is clear that Government of Bihar had indeed made
recommendation in favour of VMPL for allocation of a coal block. It
was further submitted that being an old matter a number of
documents are now found to be missing from the files of different
Government Departments including that of Ministry of Coal. It was
thus submitted that while appreciating the role played by the accused
persons vis a vis the evidence of various prosecution witnesses so
examined or the witnesses examined on behalf of the defence, the
Court has to keep in mind the nature of executive functioning beside
the fact that number of documents are still not traceable. It was also
pointed out that from the deposition of PW-12 N.R. Dash and that of
PW-1 V.S. Rana it is clear that TEFR report filed by M/s VMPL was
indeed available but now the same is found missing from the files of
Ministry of Coal. It was also submitted by Ld. Counsel that accused is
only required to show by way of preponderance of probabilities that
the case put forth by prosecution is not true or correct or is not
believable and thus benefit in this regard be extended to the accused.
It was also submitted that the investigation carried out in this case is
also not fair in as much as no investigation was at all carried out as to
the fate of application of M/s VMPL which was sent to Government of
Bihar by Ministry of Coal vide letter of PW-1 V.S. Rana. It was also
pointed out that from the file Ex. P-26 (colly) (D-30) it is clear that the
said applications were being dealt with by department of mines in
Government of Bihar and not by department of Industries. 65. It was also submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi that

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 66 of 467
 while appreciating the evidence led by the prosecution in the present
case the Court must take judicial notice of the natural conduct of
human beings. It was submitted that the intention of the officers
dealing with coal block allocation matters at the relevant time needs
to be seen and not what is now being interpreted of the said actions.
It was also submitted that there may be certain errors or acts of
negligence on the part of officers dealing with the impugned matters
at the relevant time but by no stretch of imagination the same can be
termed as culpable in nature. 66. While referring to the provisions of Manual of Office
Procedure vis-a-vis evidence led by the prosecution, it was submitted
that the primary job of checking of applications for their eligibility and
completeness was that of CA-I Section officials and if the said action
was not undertaken in MOC and the present accused persons are
being tried on account of no such action having been undertaken in
MOC then the officials of CA-I Section are also clearly accomplice in
the said act and their deposition thus needs to be seen and
appreciated keeping in view the well settled principles which governs
the rules of appreciation of deposition of an accomplice. It was also
submitted that prosecution has deliberately chosen to withheld the
best evidence from this Court and have rather led selective evidence
in various coal block matters pending trial before this Court and have
also chosen to place only selective documents on record. 67. While referring to the record notes of 7 th Energy Coordination
Committee, it was submitted that pursuant to the directions of PMO,

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 67 of 467
 the officers of MOC including the present accused persons had
undertaken the entire exercise of allocation of coal blocks and it was
submitted that every minute details could not have been looked into
by the senior officers of MOC who are now facing trial and it was on
account of necessity and urgency of the matter that the entire
exercise was undertaken with a belief that CA-I, Section will duly play
their role in the process. While referring to various notings recorded
by the officials of CA-I Section and other senior officers of MOC, it
was submitted that the entire exercise was undertaken as per the
past practice being followed and it was in case of any deviation from
the well settled past practice that the matter used to be put up before
senior officers for their directions and approval. It was also submitted
that from the deposition of PW-1 V.S. Rana and DW-7 P.K. Kuar, it
was clear that in order to save their own skin they were blatantly
telling lie and their deposition does not inspire confidence at all. While
referring to the charges framed against the accused persons, it was
submitted that the accused persons are required to meet the case of
prosecution only to the extent as has been mentioned in the charges
framed against them. It was also submitted that prosecution has
failed to explain as to whose duty was it, at least from amongst the
present officers of MOC facing trial to ensure checking/scrutiny of
applications for the purposes of their eligibility and completeness. It
was further submitted that it was the duty of PW-1 V.S. Rana, Under
Secretary, MOC to ensure checking of applications with the help of
CA-I Section officials. 68. It was submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi that from a

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 68 of 467
 bare perusal of the deposition of PW-1 V.S. Rana it is clear that
whatever facts have been stated by him are as per the records
available and not as per his memory. While pointing out various facts
deposed to by PW-1 V.S. Rana it was submitted that despite certain
facts having been stated by him contrary to the case of prosecution
still no request was made by prosecution to challenge or to re-
examine the witness and in these circumstances the said facts stands
duly established. It was also submitted that PW 1 V.S. Rana who is
the star witness of prosecution in almost all cases where the present
accused persons are facing trial in one or the other coal block
allocation matters has taken different stands in various cases qua
same issues and on account of the said changing stand, it is clear
that his deposition cannot be relied upon at all. It was also submitted
that in the present matter PW 1 V.S. Rana never stated that he
informed any of the senior officers of MOC that scrutiny/checking of
applications for their eligibility and completeness has not been carried
out. As regard the repeated stand taken by PW 1 V.S. Rana that
various actions were undertaken by them under the guidance of
senior officers it was submitted that in view of Section 68 of Evidence
Act the same is clearly hearsay as prosecution has not tried to bring
on record any evidence which could show that whatever was being
deposed to by PW 1 V.S. Rana was direct evidence having been
observed by him by one of his cognative faculties. It was also
submitted that from the records of prosecution case itself it is clear
that the project report though titled "TEFR" was very much available.
It was pointed out that the said report was very much available with

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 69 of 467
 Ministry of Steel as well as Government of Bihar and the fact that it
was not available in Ministry of Coal is clearly on account of the fact
that certain documents have gone missing from the files of MOC. It
was also pointed out that at the time of receipt of applications
acknowledgment thereof was duly given by MOC officers on a
covering letters wherein details of the documents enclosed with the
applications were mentioned. Copy of the said covering letter was
stated to have been recovered during the course of search operation
carried out at the house of co-accused Anand Mallick. 69. It was further submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi on
behalf of A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria that from the
deposition of various prosecution witnesses and defence witnesses, it
is clear that wherever certain facts have been stated by the witnesses
against the case of prosecution then the said witnesses have not
been confronted by the prosecution either by re-examining or by
putting any suggestion. It was however submitted that on the other
hand whenever such a situation has arisen qua the accused persons
be it during the cross-examination of prosecution witnesses or
defence witnesses then a request has always been made on behalf
of accused persons to grant an opportunity to re-examine the
witnesses. It was further submitted that such a request was however
turned down by this Court and thus since accused has not been given
a chance to confront the said witness(es) or to examine the
witness(es) on the said issue so the said part of evidence of the
witnesses can not be now taken into consideration. It was also
submitted that even after examination of defence witnesses this Court

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 70 of 467
 has chosen not to put all such adverse evidence which has come on
record against the accused persons to them u/s 313 Cr.PC giving
them an opportunity to explain the same and thus the said part of
evidence also can not be read against the accused persons. It was
also submitted that admittedly the minutes of 36 th Screening
Committee were duly circulated to all the members of Screening
Committee and since no objection was raised by the members of
Screening Committee at that point of time so now after a lapse of 9
years they can not come around and say that the said
recommendations of Screening Committee were not arrived at with
their agreement or consent. Reference in this regard was also made
to the factum of signing of recommendation sheets by the said
members at the time of Screening Committee meeting itself and
thereby signifying their acceptance/consent to the decision so taken
by the Screening Committee. It was also submitted that on account of
earlier experience faced by MOC officers qua the proceedings
conducted with respect to 30-34 th Screening Committee it was
consciously decided by MOC officers that members may be asked to
sign the recommendation sheets containing the final decision of the
Screening Committee meeting, in the meeting itself so that later on
members may not turn around and disown the decision of the
Screening Committee. It was also submitted that strangely enough
the prosecution witnesses in this case have chosen to not support or
reiterate the version or factum stated by them to CBI and prosecution
has also not chosen to confront the said witnesses with their said
statements u/s 161 Cr.PC. It was thus submitted that from the said

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 71 of 467
 course of examination it is clear that prosecution was itself
disbelieving the investigating agency or the investigating officer.
While referring to the communications made by Ministry of Steel to
MOC, it was submitted that at no point of time MOS ever conveyed to
MOC that the physical verification of the applications so received by
them will not be carried out by them and thus there was no reason for
MOC officers to presume or assume that no such physical verification
of the applications is being carried out by them. It was also submitted
that from the records brought on record by way of prosecution
evidence, it was clear that scrutiny of the applications qua their
completeness and eligibility was indeed carried out in MOC. It was
submitted that in the present matter there was no incomplete
applications received by MOC and for this reason only MOS had
communicated to MOC about 695 applications having been received
by them and the same being complete. 70. As regard the issue of post recommendation verification to be
carried out by MOC of the successful allocatee companies, it was
submitted that there was no reason for MOC officers to even assume
even for the sake of arguments that no such verification has earlier
been carried out either by the Administrative Ministry or by the State
Government as per the past practice being followed in MOC. 71. It was also submitted that A-6 K.C. Samria was not even
posted in CA-I Section when the applications in question were either
received in MOC or were processed or copies thereof were
dispatched to various stakeholders. It was thus stated that A-6 K.C.

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 72 of 467
 Samria can not be held liable for any such acts of omission, if
committed by CA-I Section officials. 72. It was also submitted that prosecution has clearly failed in
proving that A-5 K.S. Kropha or A-6 K.C. Samria were in any manner
responsible for the checking of applications for their completeness
and eligibility. It was also submitted that prosecution has also failed to
bring any evidence on record which could show that either A-5 K.S.
Kropha or A-6 K.C. Samria were in any manner involved in any
criminal conspiracy, if at all hatched by other accused persons. No
evidence was at all stated to have been led which could show that
there was any meeting of mind amongst the accused persons. 73. The prosecution was thus stated to have miserably failed in
proving its case against A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria. They
were thus prayed to be acquitted. 74. Ld. Counsel for A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria further
placed reliance on the following case law in support of his
submissions: ( E) PRELUDE TO MY DISCUSSION OF THE PROSECUTION CASE. 75. I have carefully perused the record. 76. Before I advert on to discuss the case of prosecution in the
light of evidence led on record vis-a-vis the submissions of Ld.
Counsels for the accused persons, it will be worthwhile to mention
that the present case like other coal block allocation matters is also
primarily based on circumstantial evidence. However, the said
circumstances are sought to be proved by prosecution mainly from
the documents be that of MOC, Screening Committee, Ministry of
Steel, State Government of Bihar, State Government of West Bengal
or that of company M/s VMPL itself. Thus in order to appreciate the
conduct of accused public servants or that of the private parties who
have been now arrayed as accused, various notings as have been
recorded in the files of Government of Bihar, Government of West
Bengal, files of Ministry of Steel or that of MOC beside the
proceedings of the Screening Committee needs to be referred to in
extensio. Thereafter only can it be examined and appreciated as to
whether various incriminating circumstances stands conclusively
proved against the accused persons or not. It will be also required to

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 75 of 467
 be seen as to whether the said incriminating circumstances so proved
form such a complete chain of evidence which is consistent only with
the hypothesis of guilt of the accused persons or not. In other words
whether the said incriminating circumstances are explainable on any
other hypothesis consistent with the innocence of accused persons or
not. 77. In this regard, it will be thus appropriate to refer to the often
repeated observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court regarding cases
based on circumstantial evidence. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra , AIR 1984
SC 1622 in para 152, 153 and 154 observed as under: It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the
 circumstances concerned 'must or should' and not 'may be'
 established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal
 distinction between 'may be proved' and "must be or should be
 proved" as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade
 v. State of Maharashtra [1973] 2 SCC 793, where the following
 observations were made : [SCC para 19, p. 807 : SCC (Cri) p.
 1047]
 Certainly, it is primary principle that the accused must be
 and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and
 the mental distance between 'may be' and 'must be' is long
 and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
 (2) the facts so established should be consistent only
 with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to
 say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis
 except that the accused is guilty,
 (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature
 and tendancy,
 (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except
 the one to be proved, and
 (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not
 to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent
 with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all
 human probability the act must have been done by the
 accused. 154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute
 the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial
 evidence." 78. Thus in the light of aforesaid well settled principles relating to
appreciation of evidence in cases based on circumstantial evidence
the facts and circumstances of the present case are required to be
examined. It will be seen as to what all incriminating circumstances
the prosecution has been successful in proving against the accused

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 77 of 467
 persons. Thereafter it will be seen whether all such incriminating
circumstances which stands conclusively proved on record form such
a chain of incriminating evidence which unerringly point towards the
guilt of accused persons only or not. In other words whether the said
chain of incriminating circumstances rule out any conclusion which
may be consistent with the innocence of the accused persons or not. 79. At this stage, I may also put a mark of caution that during the
course of entire trial including at the time of addressing final
arguments it has been repeatedly stated by Ld. Counsels for the
accused public servants that to frame a given policy is the sole
discretion of the Government of the day and the Court cannot
substitute its decision/discretion over the decision/discretion
exercised either by the officers of state Government of Bihar or that of
Government of West Bengal or of MOC or even that of Screening
Committee. Judicial review of the said decisions was thus stated to
be beyond the purview of the present proceedings. 80. In this regard I may state that Ld. Counsels for the accused
persons are certainly right in stating that in the present proceedings
this Court can not substitute its decision/ discretion over that of
officers of Government of Bihar or that of Government of West Bengal
or of MOC or even that of Screening Committee, who were vested
with such discretion and power to take a decision by law and also by
virtue of their position. However, it will be worthwhile to mention that
in the present proceedings this Court at no point of time is attempting
to substitute the decision taken by any of the aforesaid authorities

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 78 of 467
 and what is being examined is whether the decision taken or
discretion which stood vested in the aforesaid authorities was
exercised for any extraneous consideration or whether in exercise of
the power so vested in them they abused their position as a public
servant. Thus in the present proceedings this Court is simply
examining as to whether there was any malice or malafide intention in
the exercise of discretion which stood vested in these authorities or in
other words whether the decision to recommend M/s VMPL for
allocation of Moira Madhujore coal block by the Screening Committee
and consequently the allotment of the same in favour of the company
by MOC was actuated for some extraneous consideration or was
taken on certain considerations which were not permissible under
law. The sum and substance of the aforesaid exercise being
undertaken in the present proceedings is to examine whether there
exists any culpability in the exercise of discretion by the accused
public servants or the decision so taken by them in favour of M/s
VMPL amounts to commission of any offence for which charges have
been framed against the accused public servants or not. Thus in
these circumstances it can not be argued that this Court in the
present proceedings can not examine the process as well as the
procedure undertaken by the accused public servants which finally
led to allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of M/s
VMPL. It is only after such an examination that it can be ascertained
and concluded as to whether the said decision in favour of M/s VMPL
or exercise of discretion by the concerned authorities was actuated
by any malice or malafides or that their actions were bridled with

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 79 of 467
 criminality or not. Thus at the cost of repetition it is stated that while
undertaking the aforesaid exercise the question of substituting the
decision taken by any of the authorities involved in any manner
whatsoever does not arise. 81. In this regard, it would be also apt to refer to the following
passage of Justice Holmes in United States Vs. Wurzbach 1930
(280) US 396. 82. In fact the judicial review of the actions of officers of MOC or
that of Screening Committee so constituted to make
recommendations for allocation of various captive coal blocks in
favour of different applicant companies was undertaken by Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case Manohar Lal Sharma V. Union of India ,
(2014) 9 SCC 516. The said exercise of judicial review undertaken by
Hon'ble Supreme Court resulted in cancellation of allocation of all
coal blocks as were allotted pursuant to the recommendations of all
the 36 Screening Committees of MOC in favour of different applicant
companies. The work of all the 36 Screening Committees were
closely scrutinized by Hon'ble Supreme Court and detailed
observations were made as regard their functioning. Accordingly
observations made by Hon'ble Supreme Court qua 36 th Screening
Committee were as under: The minutes do not disclose how and in what manner the
 selected companies meet the norms fixed for inter se
 priority. Many of the selected companies were neither
 recommended by the State Government nor by the
 Administrative Ministry. Some of them were recommended
 by the State Government but not recommended by the
 Administrative Ministry while one of them was not
 recommended by the State Government but recommended
 by the Administrative Ministry. For Rajhara North (Central &
 Eastern) coal block, Vini Iron & Steel Udyog Ltd. had no
 recommendation by the State Government or by the
 Administrative Ministry. Similarly, for Thesgora-B/Rudrapuri
 coal block, Revati Cement P. Ltd. did not have
 recommendation either from the State Government or from
 the Administrative Ministry. As regards Tandsi-III and
 Tandsi-III (Extn.), Mideast Integrated Steels Ltd. did not
 have recommendation from the State Government. Similarly, as regards Thesgora-B/Rudrapuri, Kamal Sponge
 Steel & Power Limited had no recommendation from the
 State Government. As regards Moira Madhujore coal block,
 Ramswarup Lohh Udyog Ltd. had no recommendation from
 the Administrative Ministry. 150. From the above discussion, it is clear that 21 coal
 blocks stood allocated to private companies in pursuance of
 Screening Committee's recommendations during the period

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 81 of 467
 from the 1st meeting held on 14.07.1993 till the 21 st meeting
 held on 19.08.2003. For the period from 04.11.2003 (22 nd
 meeting) to 18.10.2005 (30th meeting) in pursuance of
 Screening Committee's recommendations, 26 coal blocks
 stood allocated to private companies. Following 32 nd
 meeting held on 29.06.2006/30.06.2006 till the 34 th meeting
 on 07.09.2006/08.09.2006, in pursuance of the
 recommendations made by the Screening Committee, two
 coking coal blocks were allocated to private companies and
 twelve non-coking coal blocks were allocated to private
 companies. In pursuance of the recommendations made by
 the Screening Committee in 35th and 36th meetings, 33 coal
 blocks were allocated to private companies. Some of the
 coal block allocations made to the private companies have
 been de-allocated from time to time. For consideration of
 legality and validity of allocations made to such companies,
 it is not necessary to deal with de-allocation aspect. It
 needs no emphasis that assuming that the Central
 Government had power of allocation of coal blocks yet such
 power should have been exercised in a fair, transparent
 and non-arbitrary manner. However, the allocation of coal
 blocks to the private companies pursuant to the
 recommendations made by the Screening Committee in 36
 meetings suffers from diverse infirmities and flaws which
 may be summarized as follows: . . . . . 22nd Meeting to 30th Meeting

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 82 of 467 10. . . . . . . . . . . 11. . . . . . . . . . . 12. . . . . . . . . . . 13. . . . . . . . . . . 14. . . . . . . . . . . 15. . . . . . . . . . . 16. . . . . . . . . . . 17. . . . . . . . . . . 18. . . . . . . . . . . 32 Meeting to 36th Meeting
 nd 19. . . . . . . . . . . 20. . . . . . . . . . . 21. . . . . . 22. The minutes of the 36th meeting do not contain the
 particulars showing consideration of each application for
 allocation of 23 coal blocks earmarked for non-power
 sector. There is nothing in the minutes to indicate how and
 in what manner the selected companies meet the norms
 fixed for inter se priority. Many of the selected companies
 were neither recommended by the State Government nor
 by the Administrative Ministry. Some of them were
 recommended by the State Government but not
 recommended by the Administrative Ministry while one of
 them was not recommended by the State Government but
 recommended by the Administrative Ministry. Many
 companies which had failed to secure allocations earlier yet
 they were recommended. The Screening Committee failed
 to consider capability and capacity of the applicant in
 implementing the projects. 151. The entire exercise of allocation through Screening
 Committee route thus appears to suffer from the vice of
 arbitrariness and not following any objective criteria in
 determining as to who is to be selected or who is not to be

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 83 of 467
 selected. There is no evaluation of merit and no inter se
 comparison of the applicants. No chart of evaluation was
 prepared. The determination of the Screening Committee is
 apparently subjective as the minutes of the Screening
 Committee meetings do not show that selection was made
 after proper assessment. The project preparedness, track
 record etc., of the applicant company were not objectively
 kept in view." (Emphasis supplied by me) 83. It was however argued by Ld. Counsels for the accused
persons that the observations made by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
said order dated 25.08.2014 can not be referred to by this Court in
the present proceedings as Hon'ble Supreme court in the said matter
never dealt with the issue of criminality of the persons involved and
had only discussed the manner in which various coal blocks were
allocated to different applicant companies in contravention of
provisions of MMDR Act, 1957 and CMN Act, 1973 . In this regard I may clarify at the threshold itself that no
conclusion as regard the criminality in the acts of persons involved in
the present case is intended to be drawn on the basis of the aforesaid
observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court. However, it can not be
stated that the aforesaid observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court are
not relevant to the facts in issue. Moreover the aforesaid observations
show that the actions of officers of Government of Bihar, Government
of West Bengal, Ministry of Steel, MOC or even that of Screening
Committee can be subjected to judicial scrutiny. At the cost of
repetition, I may however reiterate that in the present proceedings
this Court shall be examining only as to whether the acts of all

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 84 of 467
 persons arrayed as accused in the present case were actuated with
any malice or malafides or not and thereby showing criminality in their
actions or not. 84. Moreover, during the course of trial when officers of Ministry
of Steel were examined by the prosecution then in their cross-
examination it was even suggested to them by Ld. Counsels for the
accused persons only that company M/s VMPL as was mentioned in
their recommendations sent to MOC, ought to have been placed
under different category from the one in which it placed by them.
Thus Ld. Counsels for the accused persons themselves called upon
this Court to appreciate the actions taken by the accused persons in
the light of the fact that the company in question ought to have been
placed in different category from the one in which it was placed by
Ministry of Steel officers. Thus Ld. Counsels for the accused persons
themselves called upon this Court to substitute the said decision of
officers of Ministry of Steel with their own assessment of the status of
companies. Be that as it may, I shall be however dealing with the said
issue in detail at a later stage of my present judgment and I intend to
begin first with the role played by the private parties involved in the
matter which finally led to allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in
favour of M/s VMPL. 85. I may also mention that in accordance with the well-settled
principles of criminal law various circumstances in the present case

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 85 of 467
 shall be examined in the light of evidence led in this case only either
by prosecution or by defence. The reiteration of aforesaid principle
becomes necessary as during the course of trial including at the time
of final arguments and even in the written submissions repeated
attempts were made by prosecution as well as by Ld. Counsels for
the accused persons to refer to evidence led in other coal block
allocation matters or to conclusions drawn in judgments delivered by
this Court in other coal block allocation cases beyond the extent as
was permissible by law. I shall be referring to such instances in the
later part of my present judgment. (F) ROLE OF PRIVATE PARTIES i.e. A-1 M/S VMPL, A-2 VIKASH
PATNI AND A-3 ANAND MALLICK IN THE ALLOCATION OF
MOIRA-MADHUJORE COAL BLOCK IN FAVOUR OF A-1
M/s VMPL BY MINISTRY OF COAL. 86. The present case primarily requires examination of role
played by accused private parties as well as that of the accused
public servants with reference to the circumstances in which
company M/s VMPL came to be allocated Moira-Madhujore coal
block situated in the State of West Bengal. However I first intend to
deal with the role played by the accused private parties, for the same
will only facilitate in understanding the role played by accused public
servants more clearly. However even to understand the role played
by the accused private parties in proper perspective, certain factual
aspects of the matter needs to be revisited. The said factual aspects
will throw light as to the circumstances in which the application

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 86 of 467
 submitted to MOC on behalf of A-1 M/s VMPL for allocation of a
captive coal block was pursued by the company and what was their
actual intention in obtaining allocation of any such captive coal block.
It will also show as to whether there was ever any intention of the
company M/s VMPL or its Directors/officers to establish any such
integrated steel plant in Bihar for which allocation of a coal block was
sought for by them from MOC. 87. It is the admitted case of A-1 M/s VMPL that in the year 2006
it had applied to Government of Bihar for allotment of 200 acres of
land to establish an integrated steel plant in Begusarai District, Bihar.
Accordingly on request of the company, BIADA had decided to allot
200 acres of land in District Begusarai Bihar to the company. In fact
the State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB), Government of Bihar
had also approved in principal the said proposal of the company to
set up an integrated steel plant in the State. In this regard a
communication dated 12.08.2006 was sent to A-3 A.K. Mallick,
Business Development Manager, M/s VMPL by Department of
Industries, Government of Bihar vide letter No. 1408 dated
12.08.2006 [available at page 3 in Ex. P-81 (Colly) (D-88)]. The said
letter read as under: Phone-913322115115, 22116114
 Fax-913322115390

 Sub:- Proposal for setting an Integrated Steel Plant of Bihar. Sir,
 In pursuant to your letter dated 04-08-06, your proposal was
 placed before State Investment promotion Board on 07-08-2006. In
 this Board your proposal for setting an Integrated Steel Plant has
 been approved in principal. You have not submitted project report.
 Therefore you are also requested to submit project report
 immediately. This is your information and necessary action please. Yours faithfully,

 Sd/- (Mahesh Prasad)
 Director Technical Development
 Bihar, Patna." (Emphasis supplied by me) 88. As coal and iron ore were the two important raw materials
required for running a sponge iron plant so the company in order to
procure iron ore for its proposed integrated steel plant had applied to
Government of Orissa for grant of iron ore mine. Accordingly the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 88 of 467
 company informed Government of Bihar that they have already
applied for iron and manganese ore mine to Government of Orissa on
01.03.2004 and it was requested that Government of Bihar may
recommend the case of company M/s VMPL to Secretary,
Department of Mines, New Delhi and also to Principal Secretary,
Department of Steel and Mines, Bhubaneshwar, Orissa so that the
iron and manganese ore mine applied for by the company may be
approved and allotted in their favour. It was also communicated to
Government of Bihar that construction of the steel industry shall be
started as soon as possible. [In fact company M/s VMPL had earlier
also applied to Government of Jharkhand for allotment of an iron ore
mine as prior to Bihar it had proposed to establish its steel project in
Jharkhand only.] 89. Accordingly based on one such communication dated
11.09.2006 [available at page 96 in Ex. P-81 (Colly) (D-88)] made by
the company M/s VMPL, Sh. S. Vijayaraghwan, Industrial
Development Commissioner, Department of Industry, Government of
Bihar wrote a letter dated 27.09.2006 [available at page 97 in Ex. P-
81 (Colly) (D-88)] to Secretary, Department of Mines, Government of
India recommending the case of company M/s VMPL for allotment of
iron and manganese ore mine in Orissa. Copy of the said
communication was also sent to Principal Secretary, Ministry of Steel
and Mines, Government of Orissa. In the meantime company M/s
VMPL however made yet another communication dated 27.09.2006
to Executive Director, BIADA requesting that in addition to 200 acres

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 89 of 467
 of land which has already been applied for by the company for setting
up an integrated steel plant in Bihar, the company may also be
allotted an additional 100 acres of land for second phase of the
project. A sum of Rs. 6 lacs was also deposited with BIADA as the
booking amount @ Rs. 2000/- per acre. The said communication
dated 27.09.2006 [available at page 98-99 in Ex. P-81 (Colly) (D-88)],
read as under: In the meeting held on 19th Sept, 2006 at Patna, BIADA has instructed us to
 deposit Rs. 2000/- per Acre for allocation of land for our proposed project. We are
 enclosing herewith Draft No. 008133 dated 25/09/2006 for Rs. 6 (Six) Lacs in
 favour of BIADA Payable at Darbhanga as our booking money for the land for our
 proposed project. But we have already inform you that to run an Integrated Steel
 Plant the major raw materials are Iron ore and Coal. The Department of Industries

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 90 of 467
 of Bihar Govt. has assured us that they will recommend our name to the Central
 Govt. for allocation of Iron ore and Coal Mines. On the basis of the assurance we
 are depositing Rs. 6 (Six) Lacs as our booking money for the allocation of land for
 our project. Therefore we request you to kindly allot us 300 Acre of land
 immediately so that we can start our Civil Work for our proposed project at the
 earliest. We also at the same time like to inform you that any other expenses /
 payments will be made by us only after the recommendation / allocation of Iron ore
 and Coal mines. We also would like to bring to your kind notice that if we are not allotted any Iron
 ore and Coal Mines then the land we will purchase for our proposed project will be
 of no use. Therefore in that case we shall request you to return us the booking
 money of Rs. 6 (Six) Lacs which we have deposited with you and we shall shift our
 project to some other state. We solicit your kind cooperation in the above mentioned matter. Thanking you

 Yours faithfully
 For Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. Sd/- (Anand Mallick)
 Business Development Manager

 Encl: As above. C.C. Industrial Development Commissioner, Patna

 Managing Director, BIADA" We solicit your kind cooperation in the above mentioned matter

 Thanking you

 Yours faithfully
 For Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. Sd/- (Anand Mallick)
 Business Development Manager

 Encl: - As above

 C.C: - CMD, BSEB
 Director, Industry Department" CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 98 of 467 95. The company M/s VMPL thereafter made yet one more
communication dated 09.04.07 to Executive Director, BIADA wherein
also it stated that in the absence of proper raw material it will not be
possible for them to put up the proposed integrated steel plant. It
was stated that the company has accordingly decided that it shall put
up a 2000 MW integrated power plant. It was also informed that the
said proposal of integrated power plant has even been approved by
State Investment Promotion Board, Government of Bihar on
12.03.2007. It was further stated that while coal to run the power
plant will be arranged by them but in order to establish 2000 MW
power plant, the company will be requiring total of 1000 acres of land.
It was thus stated that in addition to 300 acres of land earlier allotted
by BIADA, additional land measuring 700 acres be also allotted to the
company. A request was also made to BIADA that the date of
depositing money towards 300 acres of land be also extended for a
period of 6 months so that in the meantime MOU may be signed with
Government of Bihar and adequate quantity of coal to run the power
plant may be arranged. The said communication dated 09.04.07 Ex.
PW 2/E-1 [Available at page 115-114 in file Ex. P-2 (Colly) (D-3)]
read as under: ववश्वहासजन

 कहायर्या कहारत्री वनदक्षेशक। जहापहाभकक- 478 वदनहाभकक- 07.05.07
 पवतधलवपक- पभहारत्री ववकहास, वबिहहार आआै दद्योवगिक कक्षेत ववकहास पहाधधकहार, रसन्दरहा भवन, बिक्षेलत्री रद्योड, पटनहा
 कहाक्षे वदनहाभक 02.05.07 कद्यो पत्री०सत्री०सत्री० कक्षे अनकपहालन मम सयचिनहाथर्या एवभ आवश्यक कहारवहारर्या हक्षेतक पक्षेवषत । कहायर्या कहारत्री वनदक्षेशक। (Emphasis supplied by me) 98. Thereafter vide another communication dated 15.06.07
company was again reminded that the period of deposit of requisite
amount towards allocation of land or construction of boundary wall
i.e. 30.06.2007 is soon going to expire and as the company has
neither made any payment towards cost of land and has also not
undertaken construction of boundary wall so it appears that company
was no longer interested in the allotment of said land and accordingly
company was issued a show cause notice as to why the period of
allotment of land may not be deemed to have expired. The said
communication dated 15.06.07 Ex. PW 2/F-1 [Available at page 117
in file Ex. P-2 (Colly) (D-3)] read as under: महहाशय,

 उपरद्योक ववषय रस कहायर्या लय कक्षे पतहाभक 478 वदनहाभक 07.05.07 कहा कतृपयहा सभदभर्या करम। पत दहारहा
 आपकद्यो सयवचित वकयहा जहा चिककहा हआै वक रस कहायहार्यालय कक्षे पतहाभक 1672 वदनहाभक 07.12.06 दहारहा
 आवभवटत 300 एकड भयवम मम चिहारर चिरफ चिहहारवदवहारत्री कहा वनमहार्यार 30.06.07 तक कर लत्री जहाय आआै र
 रस अवधध कद्यो हत्री आपकक्षे अनकरहाक्षेध पर अवधध ववस्तहार समझत्री जहाय तथहा रसक्षे आवभवटत भयवम पर रकहारर्या
 कहा भहाआैवतक स्वहावमत्व नहव महानहा जहाय। पत दहारहा यह भत्री सयवचित वकयहा गियहा थहा वक उपरद्योक अवधध तक
 अगिर रकहारर्या दहारहा रसकहा अनकपहालन नहव वकयहा जहातहा हआै तद्यो आवभवटत भयवम रदद कर दत्री जहायगित्री।
 उपयकर्याक शतहार भ कक्षे अनकपहालन कक्षे सहाथ हत्री वदनहाभक 30.06.07 तक आवभवटत भयवम कक रहावश जमहा करहानक्षे
 कक अवधध दत्री गियत्री थत्री। उपयकर्याक तथ्यर कहा अनकपहालन आपकक्षे स्तर सक्षे अबि तक नहव हह आ हह। स्थल वनरत्रीकर सक्षे यह भत्री स्पष
 हआै वक रस भयवम पर कद्योरर्या वनमहार्यार कहायर्या पहारम्भ नहव वकयहा गियहा हआै, जबिवक भयवम आवभटन कक महान्यतहा
 अवधध वदनहाभक 30.06.07 कद्यो समहाप हद्यो रहत्री हह। एक्षे सहा पतत्रीत हद्योतहा हआै वक आवभवटत स्थल पर पस्तहाववत
 प्लहाभट स्थहापनहा हक्षेतक अबि आप रच्छकक नहव हआै। अतक पत पहाप हद्योतक्षे हत्री कतृपयहा स्पष करम वक उपयकर्याक

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 104 of 467
 कहारहारर सक्षे क्यर नहव भयवम आवभटन आदक्षेश कक महान्यतहा अवधध समहाप समझत्री जहाय। पवतधलवपक- पबिभध वनदक्षेशक, वबिहहार आआै दद्योवगिक कक्षेत ववकहास पहाधधकहार, रसन्दरहा भवन, बिक्षेलत्री रद्योड, पटनहा
 कहाक्षे सयचिनहाथर्या एवभ हक्षेतक पक्षेवषत । कहायर्या कहारत्री वनदक्षेशक (प०)" 99. Subsequently vide another communication dated 27.06.07
company M/s VMPL was informed by BIADA that if even 30% of the
cost of land is not deposited by the date fixed then the allotment of
land should be deemed to have been cancelled. 100. However in response to communication dated 15.06.2007 of
BIADA the company M/s VMPL wrote a letter dated 28.06.07 Ex. PW
2/E-3 (D-3) to Managing Director BIADA stating that they have
already applied to MOC for allotment of coal to serve their proposed
power plant at Begusarai. It was also stated that a meeting of the
Screening Committee has taken place on 20.06.2007 but the result
thereof is still awaited. It was further stated by the company that
without steady support and supply of coal the proposed power plant
will be unviable. It was also stated by the company that the land
which has been allotted by BIADA will only be utilized to set up the
proposed power plant and no other alternate industry. Extension of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 105 of 467
 date of payment of necessary amount towards allotment of land and
to construct boundary wall thereof was thus prayed for till 31.08.2007.
The communication dated 28.06.2007 Ex. PW 2/E-2 [Available at
page 120 in file Ex. P-2 (Colly) (D-3)] read as under: Refere to your above mentioned letter we would like to bring to your kind
 notice that to setup 2 x 250MW Power Plant, the basic raw material is coal and
 the same has earlier informed to you in our all correspondence. For
 uninterrupted supply of coal, we have applied to the Ministry of Coal for
 allotment of coal block to serve our proposed Power Plant at Begusarai, for
 which Screening Committee Meeting was held on 20th June 2007 at New
 Delhi, and the result of the Screening Committee are still awaited. Sir, it is needless to explain that without the steady support and supply of coal,
 our proposed Power Plant will be unviable. The land which has been allotted
 to us by BIADA will only be utilized to setup the proposed Power Plant and no
 other alternate industry. Therefore, as you have mentioned in your letter to start the Boundary wall and
 to pay the balance amount against allotment of land to us by 30.06.2007 will
 not be possible for us until and unless the outcome of the screening
 Committee Meeting are known to us. The fate of the project is totally
 depending on the allotment of the coal block to us. Hopefully the result of the
 Screening Committee Meeting will be known by 1 st of August 2007. Therefore,
 we request you to kindly extend the date of payment for allotted land and also

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 106 of 467
 to construct the boundary wall at our site from 30.06.07 to 31.08.07. We solicit your kind cooperation in the above mentioned matter

 Thanking you
 For Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. Sd/- (Anand Mallick)
 Business Development Manager

 C.C. 1. Principal Secretary, Dept of Industry, Patna 2. Executive Director, Regional Office, Darbhanga

 (Emphasis supplied by me) 101. The said communication was also made by A-3 Anand Mallick
under his own signatures on behalf of M/s VMPL. However
subsequent thereto BIADA decided not to grant any further time to
the company either to make payment towards allotment of land or to
construct the boundary wall and vide order dated 21.09.2007 the
allotment of 300 acres of land in favour of the company was
cancelled. The amount of Rs. 6 lacs earlier deposited by the
company M/s VMPL as processing fee was also forfeited. The letter dated 21.09.2007 Ex. PW 2/G [Available at page 124
in file Ex. P-2 (Colly) (D-3)] read as under: रकहारर्या कक्षे अनकरद्योध एवभ पत्री० सत्री० सत्री० कक्षे वनरर्या य वदनहाभक 21.05.2007 कक्षे वनरर्या य कक्षे आलद्योक मम रकहारर्या
 कद्यो आवभवटत भयवम कक्षे चिहारद्यो तरफ चिहहारवदवहारत्री कहा वनमहार्यार कहायर्या वदनहाभक 30.06. 2007 तक कर लक्षेनक्षे हक्षेतक
 वनदक्षेश रस कहायहार्यालय कक्षे पतहाभक 478 वदनहाभक 07.05. 2007 कक्षे दहारहा वदयहा गियहा ।
 पकनक पतहाभक 1111 वदनहाभकक- 15.06. 2007 कक्षे दहारहा रकहारर्या कद्यो नद्योवटश दत्री गिरर्या कक वदनहाभक 30.06.
 2007 तक चिहहारवदवहारत्री कहा वनमहार्यार एवभ आवभवटत भयवम कक पथम वकस्त कक रहावश जमहा कर दत्री जहाय
 अन्यथहा भयवम आवभटन कक महान्यतहा रदद समझत्री जहाएगित्री । रकहारर्या दहारहा उसकहा भत्री अनकपहालन नहव वकयहा
 गियहा एवभ अपनक्षे पत वदनहाभक 28.06.2007 एवभ फआैक्स 02.07.2007 दहारहा यह अनकरद्योध वकयहा गियहा वक उन्हम
 31.08.2007 तक कक अवधध कक ववस्तहार कक जहाय। वदनहाभक 31.08.2007 कक समय अवधध बित्रीत जहानक्षे कक्षे
 बिहाद भत्री स्थल पर वकसत्री पकहार कक कद्योरर्या कहारर्या वहारर्या नहव कक गिरर्या ।
 रन सभत्री तत्यर कक वववक्षेचिनहा कर वबियहाडहा मकख्यहालय कद्यो अवगित करहायहा गियहा । समत्रीकद्योपरहान्त पबिभध
 वनदक्षेशक वबियहाडहा दहारहा रकहारर्या कद्यो आवभवटत भयवम कद्यो रदद करनक्षे कहा आदक्षेश वदयहा गियहा सहाथ हत्री यह भत्री
 वनदक्षेश वदयहा गियहा वक अगिर भववष्य मम रकहारर्या कद्यो भयवम कक आवश्यकतहा हद्योनक्षे पर पकनक दबिक हारहा आवक्षेदन दक्षे
 सकतक्षे हआै। तदनकसहार सवर्या शत्री ववकहास मक्षेटल एभ ड पहावर धल० कद्यो गहाक्षेथ समटर, बिक्षेगिकसरहाय मम आवभवटत 300.00 एकड
 भयवम रदद वकयहा जहातहा हआै। भयवम आवभटन पत मम वदयक्षे गियक्षे शतर्या कक्षे अनकसहार जमहा कक गियत्री रहावश पद्योसक्षेधसभगि फक
 जप कक जहातत्री हआै। पबिभध वनदक्षेशक कक्षे आदक्षेश वदनहाभक 14.09.2007

 कहायर्या कहारत्री वनदक्षेशक
 जहापहाभकक- 2259 / वदनहाभकक- 21-09-07 /
 पवतधलवपक- सवर्या शत्री ववकहास मक्षेटल एभ ड पहावर धल0]शत्री ववकहास पटनत्री, पबिभध वनदक्षेशक 35, वचितरभजन एवन्यय
 6 ठत्री फ्लद्योर, कद्योलकहातहा - 700012 कहाक्षे सयचिनहाथर्या हक्षेतक पक्षेवषत । भयखभड रदद हद्यो जहानक्षे कक्षे कहारर उस पर

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 108 of 467
 सस्थत सहारत्री सम्पवतयर कद्यो हटहा कर भयखभड कहा पभहार कक्षेतत्रीय पभहारत्री कद्यो ससौंप दम, अन्यथहा कहानयनत्री कहारवहारर्या
 कक जहायक्षेगित्री। पवतधलवपक- कक्षेतत्रीय पभहारत्री गहाक्षेथ समटर, बिक्षेगिकसरहाय कद्यो सयचिनहाथर्या एवभ आवश्यक कहारर्या वहारर्या हक्षेतक पक्षेवषत । कक्षेतत्रीय
 पभहारत्री कद्यो वनदक्षेश वदयहा जहातहा हआै वक वक्षे उपरद्योक उलक्षेधखत आदक्षेश कक्षे अनकपहालन कद्यो सकवनसश्चित करमगिक्षे। पवतधलवपक- पबिभध वनदक्षेशक, वबिहहार आआै दद्योवगिक कक्षेत ववकहास पहाधधकहार, उदद्योगि भवन, पयवर गिहागाँधत्री मआैदहान
 पटनहा कक सक्षेवहा मम सयचिनहाथर्या पक्षेवषत। कहायर्या कहारत्री वनदक्षेशक" CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 110 of 467
 "415. Cheating.--Whoever, by deceiving any person,
 fraudulently or dishonestly induces the person so deceived to
 deliver any property to any person, or to consent that any
 person shall retain any property, or intentionally induces the
 person so deceived to do or omit to do anything which he
 would not do or omit if he were not so deceived, and which act
 or omission causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to that
 person in body, mind, reputation or property, is said to "cheat". Explanation.--A dishonest concealment of facts is a deception
 within the meaning of this section." 105. In this regard, it will be also now appropriate to first consider
as to what is the meaning of the phrase "deceiving any person" as
has been used in the definition of cheating as provided in Section 415 IPC. 106. In the case Swami Dhirendra Brahamchari Vs. Shailendra
Bhushan , 1995 Cr. L.J. 1810 (Delhi), Hon'ble Delhi High Court while
dealing with the word deceiving as used in Section 415 IPC,
observed that generally speaking "deceiving" is to lead into error by
causing a person to believe what is false or to disbelieve what is true
and such deception may be by words or by conduct. A fraudulent
representation can be made directly or indirectly. Hon'ble Allahabad High Court in the case P.M. Natrajan
Vs. Krishna Chandra Gupta , 1975 Cr. L.J. 899 (All.) explained the
word "deceive" as indicating inculcating of one so that he takes the
false as true, the unreal as existent, the spurious as genuine. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case Ellerman & Bucknall
Steamship Co. Ltd. vs Sha Misrimal Bherajee , AIR 1966 SC 1892,

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 111 of 467
 explained "deceit" as a false statement of a fact made by a person
knowingly or recklessly with the intent that it shall be acted upon by
another who does act upon it and thereby suffers damage. 107. It was thus stated that in all such cases of deception the
object of the deceiver is fraudulent. He intends to acquire or retain
wrongful possession of that to which some other person has a better
claim. Thus where a person parted away with a property while acting
on such a representation of an accused believing in the truth thereof,
it clearly amounts to deceiving the person. However, it is also
important that the person practicing the deceit knows or has reason
to believe the said representation to be false. Though in the true
nature of things, it is not always possible to prove dishonest intention
by direct evidence. It can be however proved by number of
circumstances only from which a reasonable inference can be drawn. More over the explanation to Section 415 IPC i.e.
cheating states that a dishonest concealment of facts is a deception
within the meaning of this section. 108. Thus the very act of the accused persons in pursuing with
their application before 36th Screening Committee, MOC and even
making a presentation on 07.02.2008 before it representing that they
intend to establish an integrated steel plant clearly shows the
malafide intention of the accused persons in somehow procuring the
allotment of a captive coal block from MOC, Government of India.
The accused persons by dishonestly representing so thereby

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 112 of 467
 deceived MOC, Government of India by inducing it to believe the
claims made in their application followed by their presentation and
feedback form submitted to the Screening Committee to be true. The
malafide intention of the accused persons is thus writ large on the
face of record and there is even no requirement of drawing any
inference in that regard from the circumstances which even otherwise
also stands well proved on record. The facts of the present case
rather presents a situation where direct evidence of malafide intention
on the part of accused persons in deceiving MOC and the Screening
Committee is available. 109. In fact my subsequent discussion would show that even
various claims in the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) made by the
accused persons were false to the knowledge of accused persons.
The same will reinforce the conclusion that there existed malafide
intention on the part of accused persons in procuring allocation of a
captive coal block from MOC, Government of India. 110. It will be pertinent to mention that even while seeking
allotment of land from BIADA, the proposal submitted to Government
of Bihar by M/s VMPL was for integrated steel project of 6,50,000
MTPA only. The application dated 11.12.2006 submitted to Bihar
State Pollution Control Board, Patna [available from page 121-122 in
file Ex. P-81 (Colly) (D-88)] under the signatures of A-2 Vikash Patni
for obtaining NOC under Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
Act, 1974 and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 ,
clearly states the proposed production capacity of sponge iron to be

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 113 of 467
 6,50,000 TPA with a captive power plant of 100 MW only. It was this
NOC applied to Pollution Control Board, Bihar which was mentioned
at point 24 under the heading "Clearances For the Proposed End
Use Plant" in the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) submitted to MOC
by the company M/s VMPL for seeking allocation of a captive coal
block. However for reasons best known to the company M/s VMPL
the proposed capacity of the End Use Project i.e. the integrated steel
plant was mentioned in the application as 1.1 MTPA. Thus from the aforesaid facts it becomes clear that right
from beginning the company M/s VMPL was having a malafide
intention of cheating MOC, Government of India so as to procure
allocation of a captive coal block by knowingly making various false
and frivolous claims in its application submitted to MOC. As shall be
also discussed at a later stage of the present judgment that it is for
this reason only no project report of the proposed end use project
was filed alongwith the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) for no such
plant of capacity 1.1 MTPA sponge iron was in fact to be established.
It is for this reason only that even the Tecno Economic Feasibility
Report as was found in the searches carried out during the course of
investigation at the residence of Directors of company M/s VMPL
speak of a sponge iron plant of 6,50,000 TPA capacity only and not a
plant of 1.1 MTPA capacity. 111. Moreover from the various communications made by
company M/s VMPL with BIADA itself it is clear that the company had
earlier also applied to MOC for allotment of a captive coal block and

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 114 of 467
 its applications were considered by the earlier Screening Committees
also. However on none of the two occasions the company was able
to procure allocation of a coal block in its favour. These facts however
does show that company M/s VMPL and its Directors/officers were
well aware of procedure undertaken in MOC or in other Administrative
Ministries with respect to allocation of a captive coal block in favour of
any given applicant company. 112. Be that as it may, the aforesaid facts however clearly
establish the existence of malafide intention on the part of company
M/s VMPL and its Directors/officers in somehow procuring allocation
of a captive coal block by deceiving MOC, Government of India in
making them believe the various claims of company to be true even
though the accused persons knew them to be false. 113. The aforesaid circumstances also throw light on yet another
issue which though I shall be discussing separately also at a slightly
later stage that accused persons knew very well that on account of
non-compliance with the conditions of allotment of land i.e. failure to
deposit of money towards allotment of land and failure to construct
boundary wall around the land, the very allotment of land is liable to
be cancelled by BIADA and also that the same has been in fact
cancelled. I am still not on the contention of the accused persons that
the formal letter of cancellation of allotment of land i.e. letter dated
21.09.07 issued by BIADA was never received by them. However
from the various communications as were exchanged between
BIADA and M/s VMPL as have been reproduced earlier, it is crystal

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 115 of 467
 clear that the company was well aware of all the proceedings being
undertaken in BIADA regarding allotment of said 300 acres of land. In
fact it can not be presumed even for the sake of arguments that after
submitting letter dated 28.06.07 in response to letter dated 15.06.07
of BIADA whereby company had sought extension of time to make
payment and to construct boundary wall till 31.08.2007, it never
pursued the matter further with BIADA. Moreover in the
communications of BIADA as were sent to M/s VMPL, it was clearly
stated that allotment of land will be deemed to be cancelled, if the
company failed to make the payment and construct the boundary wall
by the given date. The company M/s VMPL knew very well that they
have neither deposited the cost of land or even 30% thereof as was
asked for by BIADA and has also not constructed the boundary wall
even till 31.08.2017 and thus the allotment of land in their favour is
liable to be cancelled. 114. Thus from the aforesaid circumstances, it can not be even
remotely presumed that accused persons were not aware of the
factum of cancellation of allotment of 300 acres of land by BIADA on
account of their failure to comply with the conditions of allotment. In
fact the circumstances discussed above clearly show that company
M/s VMPL had neither in fact any intention to establish the integrated
steel plant nor even the integrated power plant. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 116 of 467
 F (i) Actual purpose of seeking allocation of a captive coal
block situated in state of West Bengal by A-1 M/s VMPL. 115. A question may however arise as to for what purpose the
company was then trying to obtain allocation of a coal block. Though I
shall be discussing this issue in detail at a later stage also while
discussing the role of accused public servants but it will be suffice to
state over here that coal is an important and valuable nationalised
natural resource. Thus the foremost intention as is evident from the
circumstances was to get hold of such an important natural resource
which is of immense importance to various industries. Furthermore.
M/s VMPL was admittedly having an existing steel plant in State of
West Bengal and for which it was already having a coal linkage from
Eastern Coalfield Ltd. It is also a well known fact that coal which is an
important raw material for steel industry, if is procured by way of coal
linkage from CIL or any of its subsidiary companies, then it is costlier
than the coal procured by the industry concerned from captive coal
mining. However, State of West Bengal which was the coal bearing
state [Moira-Madhujore coal block was situated in State of West
Bengal] had not recommended M/s VMPL for allocation of any
captive coal block situated in the State. As shall be discussed
subsequently also, the company M/s VMPL despite having applied to
MOC for allocation of a captive coal block only for its proposed
integrated steel plant at Begusarai, Bihar and having been
recommended for allotment of captive coal block by the Screening
Committee for its plant at Bihar only was however strangely allotted
the coal block by Ministry of Coal, Government of India not only for its

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 117 of 467
 proposed steel plant at Begusarai in Bihar but also for its existing
steel plant at West Bengal. This circumstance rather simplifies the
entire puzzle in whose maze the company M/s VMPL was trying to
procure allocation of a captive coal block from MOC, Government of
India. The company M/s VMPL thus got allocation of a captive coal
block from MOC for its West Bengal plant also even though it never
applied for the same. 116. At this stage, I would also like to mention that this entire
conclusion ought to have been easily reached by the investigating
agency itself during the course of investigation of the present case
had there been a genuine and honest investigation of the matter. As
has been already observed by me in my order dated 15.10.2014
while disagreeing with the closure report filed in the present case
that the final report filed by CBI was more like a plea of defence of the
accused persons than the report of an investigating officer. It is only
on account of such dishonest investigation where the investigating
officer has chosen to turn a blind eye to the documents available
before it so as to draw a conclusion which is visible to a naked eye
that the duty casted upon the Court increases manifold. In the later part of the present judgment, I shall be
highlighting a number of other instances also where on account of
defective investigation irrational, illogical and illegal conclusions were
drawn by the Investigating agency. 117. Though the act of deceiving MOC and thereby inducing it to

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 118 of 467
 allot a captive coal block in favour of company M/s VMPL stands well
proved beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts against the
accused private parties but I now intend to discuss various other
issues also i.e. whether the application of A-1 M/s VMPL was
complete in terms of guidelines issued by MOC or whether any
information as was submitted to MOC either in the application form or
in the feed-back form was false and was also so to the knowledge of
company M/s VMPL and its officers/Directors. F (ii) Whether the application of M/s VMPL was complete in
terms of the guidelines issued by MOC governing allocation
of captive coal blocks. 118. Before I advert on to discuss the aforesaid issue, it will be
pertinent to first mention as to what all documents were required to
be annexed with the application by accused/applicant so that any
application could be termed as a complete application. The guidelines
issued by MOC provided various details/information under different
heads i.e. "How to Apply", "Where to Apply", "Processing of
application" etc. It also provided various factors on which interse
priority was to be decided and also the documents which were to be
annexed with the applications and failing which applications will be
rejected being incomplete. The said guidelines as are available at
page No. 73-94 Ex. PW 1/D (Colly) in file Ex. P-13 (D-17) read as
under: Such details may be provided on separate sheets, in the
 proforma as given in Form A, with suitable explanation. (Refer
 Form A)
 II The following documents should be enclosed along with the
 application form: CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 121 of 467
 "GUIDELINES FOR ALLOCATION OF CAPTIVE BLOCKS &
 CONDITIONS OF ALLOTMENT THROUGH THE SCREENING
 COMMITTEE

 A. GUIDELINES 1. Applications for allocation of coal blocks for captive
 mining for the specified end uses shall be made to the
 Director (CA-I) in the Ministry of Coal in five copies. The
 application shall be accompanied by the following in
 addition to any other relevant documentation that the
 applicant may submit: 2. In respect of fully explored blocks, geological data may be
 obtained from CMPDIL, NLC or the State agency concerned,
 as the case may be, on nominal charges. However, full cost of
 exploration and geological reports would be reimbursed to the
 agency concerned within six (6) weeks of date of issue of
 allotment letter. 3. Where only regionally explored blocks are offered for
 allocation, the detailed exploration/prospecting in the said
 blocks shall be done by the allocatee company under the
 supervision of CMPDIL. 4. Replacement of linkage with coal to be produced from the
 allocated captive coal block can be permitted by the Screening
 Committee subject to safeguarding the interest of CIL and its
 subsidiaries. 5. Disposal of production during the development phase of the
 captive mine to the local CIL Subsidiaries has been allowed at
 a price to be determined by the Government. 6. In order to promote scientific and proper mining the larger
 blocks shall not be sub-blocked into smaller ones. Only natural
 sub-blocks will be formed. 7. Allotment of Captive blocks to consortium of group of
 companies. (i) If requirement of coal by an applicant does not match with
 the reserves in a natural block then clubbing of requirements
 may be resorted to and in case a number of applicant
 companies form a consortium for utilisation of a block for their
 captive use, the same may be considered for allocation under a
 legally tenable arrangement. (ii)More than one eligible and deserving companies will be
 allowed to do captive mining of coal by forming a joint venture
 coal mining company. The constituent applicant companies
 would hold equity in the joint venture company in proportion to
 their assessed requirement of coal and the coal produced
 would be exclusively consumed in their respective end use
 projects. Distribution of coal would be in proportion to their

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 123 of 467
 respective assessed requirements. (iii) One or more companies (to be called leader
 companies) from amongst the selected, could be allowed to do
 mining of coal in one or more captive blocks and the other
 companies (to be called associate companies) would get coal
 from the captive block in proportion to their assessed
 requirements. The local Coal India subsidiary could facilitate
 this arrangement by taking a nominal service charge. Leader
 companies will deliver coal to associate companies at a transfer
 prices to be determined by the Central Government. 8. Mining of Coal by allottee companies
 The following dispensations are permitted for mining of coal
 from captive blocks: Provided that the said mining company has firm back-to-back
 tie up with the specified end user company(ies), supported by
 legally binding and enforceable supply contract/agreement. 9. Inter-se priority for allocation of a block among
 competing applicants for a captive block may be
 decided as per the following guidelines: 10. Upon allocation of captive coal block by the Screening
 Committee the applicant would submit an affidavit in the
 prescribed format to the effect that all coal mined from the
 captive block shall exclusively be used in the proposed end use
 project for which the said block has been allocated and that in
 case of any slippage in implementation of the end use project
 or the captive coal mine development project, as per the
 Schedule of implementation/bar charts submitted and agreed to
 by the Ministry of Coal, the said block shall be deallocated
 without any liability to the Government /its agencies,
 whatsoever. 11. The normative time limit ceilings have been provided
 to ensure that the coal production from the captive blocks shall
 commence within 36 months (42 months in case the area is in
 forest land) of the date of issue of letter of allocation in OC
 mine and in 40 months (54 months in case the area fall under
 forest land) from the date of said letter in UG mines. 12. In respect of an unexplored block, the allocattee
 company shall apply for a prospecting license within three
 months of the date of issue of allotment. The exploration shall
 be completed and geological report prepared within two years
 from the date of issue of prospecting license. 13. Any slippage in meeting with the above time limits,
 unless previously agreed to by the Screening Committee, for
 special reasons to recorded in writing, may lead to forfeiture of
 bank guarantee, or/and cancellation of allocation, previous
 approval under Section 5(1) of the MMDR Act, 1957 or mining

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 125 of 467
 lease, as the case may be. 14. The allocattee company shall be required to submit a
 bank guarantee equal to one year's royalty amount based on
 mine capacity as assessed by CMPDIL or NLC, as the case
 may be, and the weighted average royalty within 3 months of
 the date of letter of allotment. Subsequently, upon approval of
 the mining plan the Bank Guarantee amount will be modified
 based on the final peak/rated capacities of the mine. 15. 50% of the bank guarantee shall be linked to the
 milestones (time schedule) set for development of captive
 block, and the remaining 50% to the guaranteed production.
 The bank guarantee shall be liable to be encashed in the
 following eventuality: 16. The Company shall obtain the geological report (in
 respect of fully explored blocks), on payment of requisite
 charges, from CMPDIL, NLC or the State Government agency
 concerned, as the case may be, within six weeks of the date of
 issue of allotment letter. 17. In respect of a fully explored block, the company shall
 submit a mining plan for approval by the competent authority
 under the Central Government within six months from the date
 of issue of the letter of allocation. 18. In respect of an unexplored block, the mining plan
 shall be submitted for approval by the competent authority

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 126 of 467
 within two years and six months from the date of issue of the
 letter of allocation. 19. Mine opening permission shall be considered only
 after financial closure for the proposed end use project is
 achieved. 20. In case a captive block is offered/allocated for
 washing-cum-end-use all the beneficiated coal from the
 washery would exclusively be used in the proposed end use
 project of the allocatee company as approved by the Central
 Government and not for commercial use or otherwise. All
 middlings, tailings, or rejects from the washery, as the case
 may be, and all unusables containing carbon obtained during
 the mining of coal or in any process thereafter, if any, shall be
 used for captive consumption only by the allocattee in his
 proposed end use project or as per the scheme for disposal
 submitted by the applicant and agreed to by the Screening
 Committee. In the event that disposal is allowed by the
 Government, the modalities of disposal of surplus coal/
 middlings/ rejects, if any, would be as per the prevailing policy/
 instructions of the Government at the relevant point in time and
 could also include handing over such surplus coal/
 middlings/rejects to the local CIL subsidiary or to any person
 designated by it at a transfer price to be determined by the
 Government. PROCESSING OF APPLICATION

 "The applications received in the Ministry of Coal in five
 copies, after being checked for eligibility and
 completeness, would be sent to the administrative
 Ministry/State Government concerned for their evaluation
 and recommendations. After receipt of recommendations
 of the administrative Ministry/State Government
 concerned, the Screening Committee would consider the
 applications and make its recommendations. Based on the
 recommendations of the Screening Committee, Ministry of
 Coal will determine the allotment." (Emphasis supplied by me) 119. Thus from a bare perusal of the aforesaid guidelines under
the heading "How to Apply", it is clear that every applicant company

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 127 of 467
 was required to enclose with its application a project report in respect
of the end use plant. Further if the project report were appraised by a
lender, then the appraisal report was also to be submitted. Five
copies of such a project report alongwith appraisal report was thus
required to be submitted. The audited annual accounts/reports of last
three years was also required to be submitted in five copies. A soft
copy of the details filled in the application form was also required to
be furnished in the specified Database Form in a CD alongwith the
application. It was also mentioned in the guidelines that applications
without the above accompaniments would be treated as incomplete
and shall be rejected. 120. It is however the case of prosecution that no project report as
was required to be filed in terms of the guidelines issued by MOC,
was filed by the applicant company M/s VMPL and on this account
alone, the application of M/s VMPL being incomplete was liable to be
rejected at the thresh-hold itself. In order to support the aforesaid
averment, prosecution has relied upon the application of M/s VMPL
Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) to show that it was not accompanied with any
project report at all. 121. On the other hand the aforesaid arguments have been
vehemently opposed by Ld. Counsels for the accused persons. In
fact Ld. Counsel for A-2 Vikash Patni placed strong reliance on the
documents Ex. P-81 (Colly) (D-88) recovered during the course of
search operation carried out at the house of accused Vikash Patni
himself wherein three covering letters vide which different

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 128 of 467
 applications of M/s VMPL were allegedly submitted to MOC on
12.01.2007. It was submitted that though no such covering letter is
available alongwith the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8), produced
and relied upon by the prosecution but the covering letters which
were recovered during the search operation conducted by CBI clearly
carries stamp of Coal India Ltd. alongwith corresponding number of
the register in which entry of receipt of various applications were
being made alongwith the signatures of an official who received the
same. It was submitted that in all the three covering letters which are
part of documents Ex. P-81 (Colly) (D-88), it is clearly mentioned that
project report in respect of end use plant - 5 copies were being
submitted alongwith the application form. Details of various other
documents as were submitted alongwith the application was also
mentioned in the said covering letters. It was thus submitted that from
the said covering letters, it is clearly evident that project report was
indeed filed by company M/s VMPL alongwith its application as was
submitted to MOC. It was also submitted that from the deposition of
PW-12 N.R. Dash and the recommendation sent by Ministry of steel
to MOC after examining the applications received by it also it is clear
that a Techno Economic Feasibility Report (TEFR) was indeed
available with Ministry of Steel with respect to the end use plant to be
established by M/s VMPL at Begusarai, Bihar. It was also submitted
that even during the course of search operation at the premises of
accused persons such a TEFR was recovered by the CBI and which
fact again goes to show that the same was duly filed alongwith the
application by M/s VMPL. While referring to the deposition of PW-1

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 129 of 467
 V.S. Rana, the then Under Secretary, MOC it was submitted that he in
his cross-examination stated that as the applications received were
voluminous in nature and thus it may be possible that while shifting
the said voluminous documents/papers from Scope Minar, Laxmi
Nagar to Shashtri Bhawan, the project report attached with the
application may have been misplaced. 122. In the aforesaid circumstances, it was submitted by Ld.
Defence Counsel that from the documents relied upon by the
prosecution itself and the evidence of prosecution witnesses, it has
been clearly established that a Project Report was indeed available
with Ministry of Steel alongwith the application of M/s VMPL. Ministry
of Steel had admittedly seen and examined the TEFR filed by the
company. It was thus submitted that the application Ex. P-96 (Colly)
(D-8) produced and relied upon by the prosecution was clearly an
incomplete document and no reliance can thus be placed on such an
incomplete document to draw any conclusion much less any adverse
inference against the accused persons. My Discussion 123. At the outset, I may state that though the arguments so put-
forth by Ld. Counsels for the accused persons appears to be very
forceful but a closure scrutiny of the documents of the present case
and the evidence of prosecution witnesses examined will clearly
show the fallacy in the said arguments. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 130 of 467 124. Admittedly the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) was
submitted by M/s VMPL in the prescribed proforma as was issued by
MOC. In the said application which has been admitted to be genuine u/s 294 Cr.PC by accused Anand Mallick and is stated to be the same
application which was submitted to MOC, under his signatures, the
following information has been mentioned at point No. 21: 125. Thus in view of the aforesaid facts mentioned in the
application form itself by the company that no Detailed Project Report
(DPR) has been prepared so it is difficult to even presume as to how
such a report could have been even filed with the application. In fact it
has never been the case of accused persons or claim made by them
at any stage of the trial that the contents of the application much less
those mentioned at point No. 21 were wrong or were incorrectly
mentioned. Even nothing has been mentioned much less explained
that if a Project Report was indeed filed alongwith the application then
why at point No. 21 of the application it was stated that DPR has not
been prepared. 126. Similarly it will be now also pertinent to refer to the "Form for
Feed Back" as was submitted to the Screening Committee on
07.02.08 on behalf of company M/s VMPL under the signatures of A-3
Anand Mallick and that too after more than one year of submitting the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 131 of 467
 initial application. In the said "Form for Feed Back" i.e. Ex. P-98
(Colly) (D-37) also at point No. 8, the following information was
mentioned: 127. Thus from a bare perusal of the Form for Feed-Back also it is
clear that even after 13 months of submitting the application, the
detailed project report was not yet filed by the company with MOC as
the same was still stated to be under appraisal with the financial
institution (FI). The question which however arises for consideration
is as to in what circumstances the acknowledgement of receipt of
application of the company then came to be given on a letter which
specifically stated that various documents mentioned over there
including project report in five copies have been enclosed. [The
aforesaid question arises only if it is presumed that the letter being so
relied upon by the prosecution was indeed the covering letter on
which receipt of application in question was given by the MOC
officials.] 128. The answer to the aforesaid issue is very short and crisp and
is apparent on the face of record itself. PW-1 V.S. Rana, the then
Under Secretary, MOC stated that when the applications were being
received at Scope Minar, Laxmi Nagar, New Delhi then no record was
maintained as to how many annexures or number of pages were

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 132 of 467
 annexed with the main application form. It has also come in his
evidence that on the last date of receipt of applications i.e. on
12.01.2007 there was huge rush of applicant companies on account
of which number of counters were created for receiving the
applications. In fact a perusal of register Ex. P-11 (D-15) shows that
on 12.01.2007 itself about 785 number of applications were received. 129. Thus from the aforesaid circumstances, it is clear that as the
guidelines issued by MOC governing allocation of captive coal blocks
were available on the website of MOC and the same specified as to
what all documents are to be filed alongwith the application so the
applicant company M/s VMPL was certainly aware of all the
documents which were required to be annexed with the applications.
Thus in order to escape the attention at the time of receipt of
applications itself that any of the requisite document is missing, the
details thereof were duly mentioned on the covering letter of the
application in accordance with the guidelines issued by MOC.
Accordingly the MOC officials gave their acknowledgement of
receiving the applications on the said covering letter itself. The said
conclusion appears to be a natural corollary of the overall facts and
circumstances in as much as the accused persons ought to have
otherwise explained as to in what circumstances it was stated in the
application that no DPR has been attached and even after 13 months
while submitting the feed-back form it was still stated that the DPR is
under appraisal and no such DPR was admittedly filed even with the
feed-back form. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 133 of 467 130. No reason worth the name has been put forth by the accused
persons in this regard and I have no reason to disbelieve the details
as have been filled-up in the application as regard DPR. In fact PW-1
V.S. Rana, Under Secretary, CA-1 Section, MOC in his cross-
examination conducted by Ld. Counsel for A-2 Vikash Patni stated as
under: 131. There are however other very cogent reasons also which also
supports the conclusion as to why no such DPR was filed by the
accused persons alongwith the application. As already discussed and
demonstrated that the company M/s VMPL in fact never intended to
establish any such integrated steel plant at Begusarai, Bihar. This fact
also explains as to why even after expiry of 13 months of submitting
the initial application no such DPR was submitted by the company
and was merely stated to be under appraisal. 132. Moreover it will be also pertinent to mention that merely
because such covering letters were recovered by CBI during the
course of search operation carried out at the house of A-2 Vikash
Patni and the same were placed on record of the present case by CBI
does not imply that the authenticity of said documents stands
established on record or the same have been accepted to be correct
by the prosecution. Since accused persons are placing reliance upon
the said documents to rest their plea of defence so the onus to prove

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 134 of 467
 the same was upon them only. The facts and circumstances available
on record only show that such a document was indeed recovered in
the house search of accused Vikash Patni. This fact however does
not prove that the documents so recovered contains correct facts
only. Accordingly it was for the accused only to prove the correctness
of the facts stated therein and especially when he is placing reliance
upon the said documents to support his plea of defence. 133. Coming now to another limb of argument put forth by Ld.
Defence Counsel that as Ministry of Steel had submitted its
recommendations to MOC on the basis of TEFR as was available
with it so it is clear that such a TEFR was available with Ministry of
Steel. It was thus submitted that as admittedly one copy of
applications was sent to Ministry of Steel by MOC only so there is no
reason to presume that such a TEFR was not filed alongwith the
application submitted to MOC. It was thus submitted that application
Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) was thus not a complete document. In this
regard reliance was also placed upon the deposition of PW-1 V.S.
Rana that as the applications were subsequently shifted from Scope
Minar, Laxmi Nagar to MOC office, Shastri Bhawan so it may be
possible that while shifting the voluminous applications some
documents may have gone missing. 134. Before I advert on to discuss the aforesaid issue I may
however again mention that the present case suffers from the vires of
dishonest and defective investigation. As shall be evident from my
subsequent discussion, no efforts seems to have been made during

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 135 of 467
 the course of investigation by the IO as to in what circumstances any
such TEFR came to be available with Ministry of Steel. In fact neither
any such application of M/s VMPL or even any such TEFR as was
allegedly available with Ministry of Steel was collected during the
course of investigation. Moreover instead of putting relevant
questions in this regard to the concerned witnesses, the IO in the
statement u/s 161 Cr.PC of PW-12 N.R. Dash as was recorded
during the course of investigation chose to show him a TEFR
alongwith the application of M/s VMPL and questioned him as to on
what basis various facts were stated in the recommendations of
Ministry of Steel which were sent to MOC under his signatures.
Admittedly one such TEFR was by then already recovered by the IO
during the course of search operation carried out at the premises of
the accused persons but strangely enough in the statement u/s 161 Cr.PC of PW-12 N.R. Dash there is no mention as to from where the
said TEFR being shown to the witness came into the possession of
IO. Even the application shown to the witness was one which was
collected from MOC. No explanation has been at all put forth by the
IO as to why the application available with Ministry of Steel much less
the TEFR as was considered by Ministry of Steel in giving its
recommendations was not collected during the course of
investigation. 135. The aforesaid fact was required to be mentioned in the
statement u/s 161 Cr.PC itself as a bare perusal of statement u/s 161 Cr.PC of Sh. N.R. Dash clearly show that it has been so ambiguously

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 136 of 467
 recorded so as to give an impression that the TEFR being shown is
the same as is already available with the application of the company
M/s VMPL. It is primarily for this reason only that it has been
vehemently argued on behalf of the accused persons that it was the
same TEFR as was available with Ministry of Steel which was shown
to the witness by the IO during the course of investigation. Since no such application or TEFR was admittedly
collected from Ministry of Steel by the IO during the course of
investigation so it can not be even remotely presumed that the TEFR
available with Ministry of Steel was shown to the witness when his
statement u/s 161 Cr.PC was recorded. 136. There is however yet another interesting aspect of the matter.
Even if it is believed that a TEFR was indeed available with Ministry
of Steel with the set of application as was sent to it by Ministry of Coal
then also it is beyond comprehension as to how the said TEFR was
relating to the end use project referred in to the application of M/s
VMPL. 137. Admittedly the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) stated the
following particulars about the proposed end use project. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 137 of 467
 III PROPOSED END USE (PROJECT) POWER/IRON & STEEL/SPONGE IRON/CEMENT
 (Tick the main end use project, associate end use not to be indicated)

 Capacity of end use plant LINKAGE
 (MW)/ Quantity LINKAGE LINKAGE
 mtpa mtpa Grade Source

 .13 MTPA 86.4 F-GRADE MCL
11 EXISTING CAPACITY
12 PROPOSED CAPCITY 1 MTPA

13 ULTIMATE CAPACITY (TOTAL) 1.1 MTPA
14 ROM COAL REQUIREMENT 2.28 MTPA
15 LOCATION (District, State) BEGUSARAI, BIHAR 138. However the TEFR Ex. P-83 (Colly) (D-90) talks of a steel
manufacturing project having 4 x 500 TPD sponge iron kilns only [It is
the same TEFR which is being referred to by the accused persons
and was also allegedly referred to by Ministry of Steel officers while
making their recommendations to MOC. This very TEFR was also
shown to PW N.R. Dash by IO Insp. Rajbir Singh while recording his
statement u/s 161 Cr.PC]. The total capacity of said sponge iron is
thus stated to be 65000 TPA only. [Further in the said TEFR the
existing capacity of sponge iron plant is stated as 65000 TPA and the
expansion under implementation was also stated to be 65000 TPA
sponge iron. The TEFR further states the existing capacity to be in
West Bengal. As regard proposed end use project at Bihar the
capacity in the TEFR under the heading Executive Summary [at page
2 in Ex. P-83 (Colly) (D-90)] was mentioned as under: Nothing has been at all argued or explained in this regard during the
course of entire trial on the part of accused persons as to when the
capacity of the proposed end used project was mentioned in the
application as 1 MTPA then how a TEFR for an end use project of
proposed capacity 65000 MTPA can relate to the same. In fact a
perusal of the records of the present case shows the most casual
nature of functioning on the part of officers of various departments of
Government of India be that of MOC or even that of Ministry of Steel.
Even in the recommendations sent to MOC by Ministry of Steel under
the signatures of PW-12 N. R. Dash vide OM dated 06.12.2007, the
recommendations qua M/s VMPL were sent as under: However even if the said explanation is accepted for the sake of
arguments to be correct then also the moot question which arises for
consideration is whether the said TEFR at all related to the proposed
end use project as was mentioned in its application by the company.
If at all Ministry of Steel was considering as to whether the given
applicant company i.e. M/s VMPL proposes to achieve the desired
minimum production level by the outer limit fixed by Ministry of Steel
then also it ought to have seen as to whether the TEFR being

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 140 of 467
 considered by them is of the same proposed end use project
mentioned in the application form by the company or not. At least the
TEFR ought to have mentioned the further details as to how and till
what time the company intends to achieve its full capacity. No such
details are there in the TEFR as the same pertained to a project of
65000 TPA capacity only. [Thus, even if it is presumed that the said
TEFR was indeed filed alongwith the application then as the details
mentioned in the application form did not co-relate in any manner
with the annexure i.e. TEFR allegedly filed by the company, so this
fact ought to have been also highlighted by Ministry of Steel in its
comments sent to MOC.]

 Thus it is clear beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts
that the TEFR being referred to by the accused persons could not
have been the TEFR pertaining to the end use project mentioned in
the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8), if at all any such TEFR was
filed. In fact as shall be discussed at a later stage also that even the
MOC officers in the Screening Committee or even later on in MOC
itself also did not choose to mention the said fact and for reasons
best known to them chose to ignore or conceal the said fact. 141. Thus in view of the apparent and inherent contradictions in
the claims made by the accused persons, this Court has all the
reasons to believe that no such TEFR was at all filed alongwith the
application. In fact at this stage, I may also mention that even
otherwise a TEFR is a materially different document from a " Project
Report" as was required to be filed by the company in terms of the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 141 of 467
 guidelines issued by MOC. 142. A Techno Economic Feasibility Report [TEFR] determines
the technical feasibility and financial viability of the project. It assess
the risks associated with the project and enumerate imminent actions
that are required to be taken. On the other hand a project report is a document which
gives an account of the project proposal to ascertain the prospects of
the proposed plan/activity. The project report contains detailed
information about land building required, manufacturing capacity per
annum and the manufacturing process. Similarly Detailed Project
Report (DPR) is prepared for the investment decision making
approval but also for execution of the project and for preparation of
plan. Detailed project report is a complete document for investment
decision-making, approval and planning. Thus the mere filing of TEFR would not have even
otherwise fulfilled the requisite conditions of MOC guidelines which
mandated that alongwith the application the project report be also
filed. 143. In fact it has also been argued by Ld. Counsels for the
accused persons that in terms of the guidelines issued by MOC, soft
copy of the details mentioned in the application form were also
provided in a CD. It has been submitted by Ld. Counsel for A-2
Vikash Patni that the said CD was admittedly available with CMPDIL
and the same also shows details of all documents filed alongwith the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 142 of 467
 application. However as per documents available in D-44 i.e. Ex. P-
37 (Colly) [Admitted to be genuine u/s 294 Cr.PC by accused Vikash
Patni himself], the said data available in the CD was also compiled in
a database by CMPDIL. In the said database also as regard the
status of DPR it is specifically mentioned that no such DPR is
available. The aforesaid record of CMPDIL thus again goes to
support the conclusion that no such detailed project report (DPR) was
at all filed alongwith the application by the company M/s VMPL. It
thus can not be presumed even for the sake of arguments that the
application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) relied upon by prosecution is an
incomplete document. The said argument of Ld. Counsels for A-2
Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick thus does not hold ground at all. 144. At this stage, it would be also pertinent to mention that even
in its communication dated 12.08.2006 [Available at page 3 in Ex. P-
81 (Colly) (D-8)], Department of Industries, Government of Bihar had
while conveying to A-3 Anand Mallick, the approval of the proposal for
setting an integrated steel plant had also informed that no project
report has been submitted. 145. It is in the light of aforesaid discussion, if the other arguments
of Ld. Counsel for accused Vikash Patni and Anand Mallick are seen
that alongwith the application the audited annual accounts/reports of
last three years (5 copies) of Impex Group of companies were also
filed then I may again state that the said submission is even contrary

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 143 of 467
 to the records relied upon by accused persons themselves.
Admittedly in the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) or even in the
covering letter as has been relied upon by the accused persons there
is completely no mention of Impex Group of companies being in any
manner related to M/s VMPL. Even in the Memorandum of
Association and Articles of Association of M/s VMPL as were annexed
with the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) there is no mention at all of
Impex Group of Companies. In these circumstances it is again
beyond comprehension as to how it can be presumed even for the
sake of arguments that any such audited annual accounts/reports of
Impex Group of Companies of which M/s VMPL is stated to be a
group company was also filed alongwith the application. In fact the
guidelines issued by MOC for the purposes of ascertaining interse
priority amongst the competing applicant companies required details
in respect of finances etc qua the promoter companies only in the
cases of joint venture companies and not otherwise. Thus when M/s
VMPL was never stated to be a joint venture company so the
question of filing of details of finances of its promoter companies did
not arise. Similarly when the application was also completely silent
that M/s VMPL is a group company of M/s Impex Group of
Companies so the question of filing of balance sheets of Impex Group
alongwith the application did not arise. 146. Thus it is clear that it was only the audited annual reports of
M/s VMPL which were annexed with the application and had there
been another set of audited annual accounts/reports of Impex Group

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 144 of 467
 of Companies annexed then the same would have been separately
mentioned in the covering letter itself as has been relied upon by the
accused persons themselves. Moreover even if it is presumed for the
sake of arguments that the audited annual accounts/reports of Impex
Group of Companies were filed alognwith the application then also
the said reports could not have been considered or taken into
consideration at all when there was no mention at all in the
application that applicant company M/s VMPL was a SPV/JV or a
group company of Impex Group of Companies. Thus the said reports
even if filed were completely extraneous documents in so far as the
claims/figures mentioned in the application form were concerned. 147. Accused persons have thus clearly failed in establishing
availability of any such document(s) even for the purposes of
preponderance of probabilities. On the other hand from the evidence
led by the prosecution coupled with the documents proved on record
it stands proved beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts that
neither the project report nor the relevant documents of financial
statement of applicant company A-1 M/s VMPL in support of the
claims made in the application were filed on record alongwith its
application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) by company M/s VMPL. It thus
stands proved that the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) submitted to
MOC on behalf of A-1 M/s VMPL was an incomplete application in
terms of the guidelines governing allocation of captive coal blocks
issued by MOC and was thus liable to be rejected in MOC itself and
was thus not to be processed further much less sending copies

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 145 of 467
 thereof to Ministry of Steel, State Government of West Bengal, Bihar
or to CMPDIL etc. The said application accordingly ought not to have
been even put up before the Screening Committee for its
consideration. [However at a later stage of the judgment while
discussing the role of accused public servants I shall be again
revisiting this aspect while discussing as to whether applications
were at all checked in MOC for their completeness or eligibility or
not.]

F (iii) Whether the company M/s VMPL mentioned inflated
figures of financial strength in its application. 148. In the aforesaid circumstances the entire issue boils down to
only one proposition i.e. whether the details of turnover, profit and
net-worth as were mentioned in the application in column 8, 9 and 10
tallied with the details of finances as were mentioned in the audited
annual accounts/reports of M/s VMPL filed alongwith the application
or not. In this regard it is an undisputed case of prosecution
that these figures mentioned in the application did not tally with the
details of finances as were mentioned in the audited annual
accounts/reports of M/s VMPL. It is the case of accused persons that
the figures of financial strength as were mentioned in the application
were that of Impex Group of Companies and not only of M/s VMPL. 149. Thus in view of my aforesaid discussion it stands well proved
that the figures of turnover, profit and net-worth as were mentioned in

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 146 of 467
 the application were highly inflated and also that neither they
correlated with details mentioned in the annexures to the application
nor were justifiable in terms of the guidelines issued by MOC
governing allocation of captive coal blocks. 150. The sum and substance of the aforesaid discussion as regard
non-filing of detailed project report or wrong mentioning of figures of
financial strength of the applicant company in the application is that
the company M/s VMPL dishonestly represented to MOC,
Government of India that all the requisite documents have been filed
alongwith the application. Similarly the company M/s VMPL
misrepresented about its financial strength by mentioning highly
inflated figures of its turnover, profit and net-worth and thereby
making Screening Committee, MOC to believe in its higher financial
capability to establish the proposed end use project. [I am not at all
entering into the issue as to whether the figures of financial strength
mentioned in the application tallied with that of Impex Group of
Companies or not, since the same will be completely an exercise in
futility especially in view of my aforesaid discussion]. F (iv) Whether A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3
Anand Mallick were aware of the factum of cancellation of
allotment of 300 acres of land to A-1 M/s VMPL by BIADA. 151. There is yet another misrepresentation made by applicant
company M/s VMPL before the Screening Committee. As earlier also
mentioned that in the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) submitted to
MOC on 12.01.2007, it was claimed by the company that it has been

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 147 of 467
 allotted 300 acres of land by BIADA. The said claim was again
reiterated before the Screening Committee in the feed-back form
submitted on 07.02.08. However as already discussed and
demonstrated that the said allotment of 300 acres of land in favour of
M/s VMPL was canceled by BIADA vide order dated 21.09.07 after
the company M/s VMPL failed to deposit the cost of land and also
failed to construct the boundary over the land. 152. The accused persons i.e. A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand
Mallick have however claimed that at the time of presentation before
the Screening Committee on 07.02.2008 they were not aware about
any such order of cancellation of allotment of land issued by BIADA
for they never received the same. As regard recovery of cancellation
order dated 21.09.07 from their premises in the search operations
carried out by CBI during the course of investigation, it was claimed
that when during the course of preliminary enquiry registered by CBI,
enquiry was made from them regarding this issue then the copy of
order dated 21.09.07 was obtained by them from BIADA office and a
copy thereof was supplied to CBI while retaining one copy with them. My Discussion 153. In this regard I may state that I have already discussed and
demonstrated at length in the earlier part of the judgment that regular
correspondence was being undertaken by company M/s VMPL with
BIADA seeking extension of time for depositing the cost of land and
for time to construct the boundary wall. One such communication

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 148 of 467
 undertaken by company M/s VMPL with BIADA was dated
28.06.2007, wherein extension of time was sought from 30.06.07 to
31.08.07. Thus as earlier also mentioned that it can not be believed
even for the sake of arguments that the company M/s VMPL despite
undertaking regular and repeated correspondence with BIADA so that
allotment of land in its favour may not be cancelled suddenly stopped
interacting with BIADA and did not care to even ascertain as to
whether their request for extension of time to deposit the cost of land
or request to extend the time for construction of boundary wall was
accepted by BIADA or not. 154. Moreover, prosecution in order to prove its case that order
dated 21.09.07 issued by BIADA for cancellation of allotment of land
in favour of company M/s VMPL was indeed received by the accused
persons examined PW-2 Anil Kumar Thakur, the then Executive
Director, BIADA under whose signatures the order dated 21.09.07 for
cancellation of allotment of land was issued. It also examined PW-4
Devanand Dutta, the official of BIADA who was posted in dispatch
section of Dharbhanga office of BIADA and had actually dispatched
the order dated 21.09.07 to M/s VMPL by registered post. 155. While PW-2 Anil Kumar Thakur proved various
correspondence which were undertaken between BIADA and
company M/s VMPL regarding allotment of land and thereafter BIADA
calling upon the company to deposit the cost of land and also to
construct the boundary wall. He also proved the order dated 21.09.07
Ex. PW 2/G issued to M/s VMPL under his own signatures whereby

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 149 of 467
 the land allotted in favour of M/s VMPL was cancelled. Strangely
enough no suggestion was even put to the said witness either on
behalf of A-2 Vikash Patni or A-3 Anand Mallick that no such letter
was ever received by them or by the company M/s VMPL. It was also
not even suggested to him that the registered office of M/s VMPL
where order dated 21.09.07 was allegedly sent was under renovation
during the said period as is being now claimed by the accused
persons in the present trial. 156. Similarly PW-4 Devanand Dutta deposed that order dated
21.09.07 was sent to M/s VMPL at the address "M/s VMPL, Sh.
Vikash Patni, Managing Director, 35-Chittaranjan Avenue, 6 th Floor,
Kolkata-700012" through registered post by him after making
necessary entry in the dispatch register. He further stated that the
relevant postal receipt issued in this regard by Ranipur Post office
was also duly pasted in the register by him. In his cross-examination
he also deposed that the said letter was not received back as
undelivered. However once again no suggestion was even put to the
said witness either on behalf of A-2 Vikash Patni or A-3 Anand Mallick
that no such letter was ever received by the company. In fact the
correctness or veracity of the dispatch register Ex. PW 4/A-1 or that
of his deposition was even not questioned. 157. Moreover reference in this regard can even be made to Section 114 Indian Evidence Act, 1872. The said provision provides
for presumption of existence of certain facts. It provides that the Court
may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 150 of 467
 happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events,
human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to
the facts of the particular case. Illustration (f) to the section read as
under: 158. It is however further mentioned in the illustration that the
Court shall also have regard to such facts as the following, in
considering whether such maxims do or do not apply to the particular
case before it: [As regard illustration (f) reproduced above it is
mentioned as under]

 "As to illustration (f) - The question is, whether a letter was
 received. It is shown to have been posted, but the usual course
 of the post was interrupted by disturbances." 159. Thus though the presumption of delivery of a letter by
registered post is rebutable but to rebut the same is the duty of
accused. Though the accused may not be required to rebut the said
presumption beyond reasonable doubts and it will be sufficient if even
by preponderance of probabilities he is able to demonstrate that no
such letter was received by him. Unfortunately in the present case
except for making a bald statement that no such letter was delivered
at the registered office of the company M/s VMPL no attempt worth
the name has been made to show as to in what circumstances no
such letter could have been delivered at the said given address of the
company. Though it was submitted that the registered office of the
company was under renovation and thus no document could have

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 151 of 467
 been delivered over there as the company was not operating from the
said address at the given point of time but I may once again state
that nothing has been brought on record which could substantiate the
aforesaid claim even for the sake of preponderance of probabilities. 160. In this regard it would be also worthwhile to refer to an
application of A-1 M/s VMPL as was initially submitted to BIADA for
seeking allotment of 200 acres of land. The said application dated
24.09.2006 is available from page 213-216 in file Ex. P-3 (Colly) (D-4)
and was submitted under the signatures of A-2 Vikash Patni. In the
said application the address of correspondence i.e. "Dak Pata" is
mentioned as "VIKAS METAL & POWER LTD. 35, CHITTRANJAN
AVENUE, 6TH FLOOR KOLKATA-700012". Again in the personal biodata
of Vikash Patni as was enclosed with the application the address of
correspondence i.e. "Patrachaar Ka Pata" is mentioned as "Vikas
Patni, 35, Chittranjan Avenue, 6th Floor KOLKATA, West Bengal-
700012". Moreover it is not the case of accused persons that
subsequent to submission of aforesaid application for seeking
allotment of land any other correspondence was made to BIADA by
them intimating about the change of the said correspondence
address. Even in correspondence made by company M/s VMPL with
BIADA and as have been referred to in detail in the earlier part of the
judgment the address mentioned on the letter heads of the company
is the same address as is referred to above . Similarly various
correspondence which were also sent to company M/s VMPL by
BIADA were sent at the same address (Earlier referred to in detail). CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 152 of 467
 All the said correspondence were also duly responded to on behalf of
A-1 M/s VMPL. 161. At this stage it would be also appropriate to have a brief
glance over Section 27 of General Clauses Act. The same read as
under: 162. In these circumstances it thus can not be even presumed for
the sake of arguments that order of cancellation of allotment of land
dated 21.09.2007 sent at the same address to M/s VMPL was not
delivered or was not received by the accused persons. 163. Reference in this regard can also be made to the case(s)
C.C. Alavi Haji Vs. Palapetty Muhammad and Anr. (2007) 6 SCC
555 and M/s Madan & Co. Vs. Wazir Jaivir Chand (1989) 1 SCC 264. 164. Thus in view of my aforesaid discussion, this Court is well
justified in concluding that order dated 21.09.2007 whereby allotment
of 300 acres of land in favour of M/s VMPL was cancelled by BIADA
was duly delivered to the company. Thus keeping in view the overall

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 153 of 467
 facts amd circumstances as already discussed, it is clear that the
company and its officers and directors i.e. A-2 Vikash Patni who was
the Managing Director and A-3 Anand Mallick, who was the Business
Development Manager of the company were well aware of the factum
of cancellation of allotment of 300 acres of land by BIADA upon
receipt of cancellation order dated 21.09.2007 before they came to
make presentation before the Screening Committee on 07.02.2008. 165. The claim of A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick that
copy of cancellation order dated 27.09.2007 was recovered from their
house search by CBI during the course of investigation only because
they had collected it from BIADA during the course of preliminary
enquiry only, does not inspire confidence even for the sake of
preponderance of probabilities. F (v) Whether Ministry of Steel relied upon the aforesaid
highly inflated claims about the financial strength and
capacity of the end use project made by the company M/s
VMPL in its application. 166. The next question which is required to be considered is
whether the claims made by company M/s VMPL as regard its
financial strength i.e. turnover, profit and net-worth or the claim made
qua its existing and proposed capacity were considered by Ministry of
Steel in submitting its recommendation/comments/views to MOC. 167. Ministry of steel had admittedly placed various applicant
companies under different categories on the basis of its own internal
guidelines. In order to appreciate the issue as to whether Ministry of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 154 of 467
 steel considered the figures of financial strength or the claims
regarding existing and proposed production capacity of the end use
project as were made by the applicant companies in their
applications, it will be worthwhile to first have a glance over the
guidelines, Ex. PW 12/A (colly) [available at page 289-290 in file Ex.
P-6 (Colly) (D-10)] so framed by Ministry of Steel. Category II: Companies having existing capacity less than
 eligible capacity (0.3 mT or 0.5 mT as the case may be) but
 their proposed expansion capacity which is likely to be
 commissioned by Dec, 2010 will enable them to have eligible
 capacity. (a)No coal linkage, no captive coal block. (b)Partial coal linkage, no captive coal block. (c) With coal linkage, no captive coal block. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 155 of 467
 Category III: Any group of companies or consortium whose
 individual existing capacities are ineligible, make a viable joint
 venture and which joint venture enables it to have eligible
 capacity and the application is submitted in the name of joint
 venture. (a)No coal linkage, no captive coal block. (b)Partial coal linkage, no captive coal block. (c) With coal linkage, no captive coal block. Category IV: Companies having existing eligible capacity (0.3
 mT or 0.5 mT as the case may be) (a)No coal linkage, captive coal block with less than 50%
 satisfaction level. (b)Partial coal linkage, captive coal block with less than 50%
 satisfaction level. Category V: Companies having existing capacity less than
 eligible capacity (0.3 mT or 0.5 mT as the case may be) but
 their proposed expansion capacity which is likely to be
 commissioned by Dec, 2010 will enable them to have eligible
 capacity. (a)No coal linkage, captive coal block with less than 50%
 satisfaction level. (b)Partial coal linkage, captive coal block with less than 50%
 satisfaction level. Category VI: Companies having no existing capacity, but
 proposes eligible capacity to be commissioned by
 December, 2010. Category VII: Any group of companies or consortium which
 forms a Joint Venture and such Joint Venture has Ineligible
 existing capacity but proposed expansion capacity of the Joint
 Venture enables it to have eligible capacity and the application
 is submitted in the name of Joint Venture." (Emphasis supplied by me) 168. Thus from a bare perusal of the aforesaid guidelines it is
clear that the eligibility criteria so devised by Ministry of Steel clearly
stated that financial status of the company and the extent of financial
tie-up beside a minimum of production capacity to be achieved by
December 2010 shall be the relevant criteria of eligibility of applicant
companies before they are put under one or the other categories so

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 156 of 467
 devised by Ministry of Steel. The existing and proposed production
capacity of the end use plant was thus also an important criteria
adopted by Ministry of Steel in carving out various categories in which
the applicant companies were categorised. 169. PW-12 N.R. Dash, Director, Ministry of Steel was the
Incharge ID-Wing where the applications received in Ministry of Steel
from MOC were examined. In his deposition he stated that while
placing the companies under one or the other categories the
information about the existing or proposed capacity of the companies
was considered as per the details mentioned in their applications. In
fact on the top of office memorandum dated 06.12.2005 Ex. PW 1/H-
5 (Colly) (D-13) vide which recommendations of Ministry of Steel
were sent to MOC, the following words were mentioned: 170. In his cross examination as was conducted by Ld. Counsel
for A-5 K.S. Kropha he admitted it to be correct that in the guidelines
framed by Ministry of Steel for its internal use the financial status of
the company was a relevant factor. He also stated that capacity of
production of the end use project of the company was also a relevant
criteria as was followed by Ministry of Steel. 171. In fact in the office memorandum dated 06.12.07, EX. PW-
1/H-5 (colly) in file Ex. P-9 (Colly) (D-13) vide which the status of
various applicant companies qua different categories as were devised

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 157 of 467
 by Ministry of Steel was communicated to MOC it was specifically
stated in para 6 as under: 172. Thus from the aforesaid observations made by Ministry of
Steel also it is clear that it was very much concerned with the
potential and credibility of the applicants in setting up capacity
addition in steel sector. The progress made qua the end use project
or efforts made towards development of natural resources earlier
allocated were also stated to be relevant factors which the screening
committee may like to consider so as to facilitate the projected growth
of domestic steel capacity. In fact a perusal of minutes Ex. PW-1/L
(colly) in file Ex. P-7 (Colly) (D-11) of 36th Screening Committee also
shows that during the meeting held on 03.07.2008, Joint Secretary,
Ministry of Steel stated that blocks be allocated to those companies
which are genuine, technically and financially sound to take up the
project and where capacity addition is expected to be accomplished
by the year 2010. 173. It has been, however, submitted by Ld. Defence Counsels
that PW 12 N.R. Dash in his cross-examination stated that on the
basis of net worth and financial capacity Ministry of Steel did not

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 158 of 467
 declare any applicant company to be not eligible for being considered
under one or the other category. It was submitted that witness in fact
thereafter volunteered that Ministry of Steel had not examined the net
worth or financial capacity of the companies and that while putting up
various applicant companies under different categories only the
existing capacity or the proposed capacity of the applicant companies
was considered. 174. In this regard I may state that the internal guidelines framed
by Ministry of Steel for its own use for examining and assessing the
claims of various applicant companies clearly talked of financial
status of the companies and extent of financial tie up. It is correct that
as per the said guidelines and as also stated by PW 12 N.R. Dash
initially the applicant companies were to be screened qua eligibility
criteria mentioned at the beginning of the said guidelines and
thereafter depending upon the existing and proposed capacity of the
end use plant of the applicant companies they were to be categorized
under one or the other categories. Thus if the financial strength of the
applicant companies was not considered by the Ministry of Steel then
it can only be stated that the Ministry of Steel also ought to have laid
down same eligibility criteria qua the strength of the applicant
companies and by not laying down any such criteria they too violated
the very spirit of the guidelines so laid down by Ministry of Steel. As
shall be discussed at a subsequent stage also that even the working
of Ministry of Steel with respect to coal block allocation matters was
also not found to be above board. However, in this regard it would be

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 159 of 467
 worthwhile to mention that even in the minutes Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) (D- 11) of 36th Screening Committee meeting, it is mentioned that Joint
Secretary (Steel) Sh. U.P. Singh at the initial stage of the proceedings
stated that the blocks be allotted to those companies which are
genuine, technically and financially sound to take up the project and
where capacity addition is expected to accomplish by the year 2010. 175. Thus from the aforesaid comments made by Joint Secretary
(Steel) it is clear that the financial strength of the applicant companies
was indeed a relevant criteria for Ministry of Steel beside also the
existing and proposed capacity of the end use project as was
mentioned by the applicant companies in their applications. 176. Thus from the aforesaid circumstances it is crystal clear
that both financial status of the applicant companies as well as the
capacity of the end use project were relevant factors even to Ministry
of Steel while making its recommendations qua various applicant
companies to MOC. F (vi) Whether the data furnished by A-1 M/s VMPL in its
application and the feed-back form was considered by the
Screening Committee, MOC. 177. As already mentioned the guidelines issued by MOC
governing allocation of captive coal blocks clearly stated that for
deciding the inter-se priority of various competing applicants for
allocation of a captive coal block, the status (stage) level of progress
and state of preparedness of the projects beside net-worth of the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 160 of 467
 applicant company and also the track record and financial strength of
the company shall be relevant factors. 178. However apart from the said guidelines a perusal of the
minutes of 36th Screening Committee also clearly show that the
information as was submitted by the applicant companies in their
application form was duly considered. Though I shall be referring to
the minutes of 36th Screening Committee at length at a later stage of
the judgment while discussing the role of accused MOC officers in the
entire coal block allocation process but it would be worthwhile to refer
to certain relevant portion of the said minutes over here. The same
read as under: As regards inter-se distribution of shares among the joint
 allocattees, it was decided by the Committee that capacity of
 end-use projects shall be determined as follows: use project, status of preparedness to set up the end-use
 project, past track record in execution of projects, financial and
 technical capabilities of applicant companies,
 recommendations of the State Governments and the
 Administrative Ministries concerned etc. The Screening
 Committee, accordingly, decided to recommend for allocation
 of coal blocks in the manner as follows: 179. Thus from the guidelines issued by MOC and the minutes of
36th Screening Committee meeting as have been reproduced above,
it is crystal clear that the Screening Committee while making its
recommendations relied heavily on the information furnished by the
applicant companies in their application forms and especially the
production capacity of the plant and financial capability of the
applicant companies beside also considering the presentation made
by the companies before the Screening Committee and other
information furnished by the companies. F (vii) Whether issuance of letter of allotment of coal block
amounted to delivery of property resulting in wrongful gain
to A-1 M/s VMPL. 180. Another important issue raised by Ld. Counsels for accused
persons was that mere issuance of allotment letter can not amount to
delivery of any property as mentioned in Section 420 IPC. In this
regard, the observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India as were

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 163 of 467
 made in its orders dated 25.08.14, passed in the case Manohar Lal
Sharma case (Supra) in para 61, 69, 70 and 71, will be worth
referring to. (Emphasis supplied by me) 181. Thus in view of the aforesaid observations of Hon'ble
Supreme Court, the allocation letter dated 06.10.2009 Ex. PW-1/M-9
(D-14) issued by MOC in favour of accused company M/s VMPL qua
allotment of Moira-Madhujore coal block clearly amounts to delivery
of property i.e. rights qua valuable nationalized natural resources of
the country. It amounts to grant of largesse. The letter of allocation
was thus a valuable security in itself much less a document which
was capable of being converted into a valuable security. 182. It was however also argued by Ld. Counsels for A-2 Vikash
Patni that as admitted by the prosecution witnesses there was a
dispute over the boundaries of Moira-Madhujore coal block as the
land thereof was acquired by Government of West Bengal for setting
up an Aerotropolis Airport Project. The deposition of DW-3 Ms.
Saswati Poddar and DW-4 Arun Kumar Dhar were also referred to in
this regard beside referring to proceedings in the file of MOC where
the said issue was extensively dealt with. It was also submitted by Ld.
Counsel that in fact no coal was at all extracted from the said coal
block and thus no wrongful loss was caused to anyone. 183. In this regard, I may state that the issue regarding
overlapping of boundaries of Moira-Madhujore coal block with that of
Aerotropolis Airport Project was indeed discussed in MOC but as is

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 166 of 467
 evident from the files of MOC that the said issue was duly settled
over there by excluding certain area of Moira-Madhujore coal block
and in lieu thereof by adding some addiontal area to it. The said
modifications of the boundaries of Moira-Madhujore coal block was
subsequently also approved by the Prime Minister as Minister of Coal
while approving the recommendations made by 36 th Screening
Committee [Reference in this regard may be made to ID note dated
21.07.2008 Ex. PW 1/M-3 (D-13) of Sh. Ashish Gupta, Director PMO
vide which approval of recommendations of 36 th Screening
Committee by Prime Minister as Minister of Coal was conveyed to
MOC.] Moreover neither DW-3 Ms. Saswati Poddar nor DW-4 Arun
Kumar Dhar stated anything which could show that any land falling
under Moira-Madhujore coal block was acquired by Government of
West Bengal for Aerotropolis Airport Project. Apart from the aforesaid
facts and circumstances it will be worthwhile to point out that the very
issuance of allocation letter in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL by MOC in fact
amounted to delivery of property. It is not the case of accused
persons that upon finding that it was not feasible to mine the said
Moira-Madhujore coal block on account of land falling under it having
been acquired by Government of West Bengal for the Aerotropolis
Airport Project, they surrendered the said allotment of coal block back
to MOC. In this regard it would be also worthwhile to refer to certain
other observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case Manohar
Lal Sharma case (Supra) wherein it was stated that allocation of coal
blocks amounted to grant of largesse in favour of applicant
companies and thus it cannot be stated that no wrongful gain was

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 167 of 467
 caused to the applicant companies. The right to obtain prospecting
license or mining lease of the coal mine was admittedly dependent
upon the issuance of allocation letter only. Thus the allocation letter
conferred a valuable right in favour of the allottee i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL
and was certainly a property within the meaning of the offence of
cheating. F (viii) Whether the dishonest misrepresentation continued
before Prime Minister as Minister of Coal and thereby
cheating MOC, Government of India. 184. In this regard it will be also worthwhile to refer to certain
observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case Kanumukkala
Krishnamurthy @ Kaza Krishnhamurthy Vs. State of Andhara
Pradesh, AIR 1965 SC 333. The issue involved in the said case and
the present case in hand are almost similar. 185. In the said case accused Kanumukkala Krishnamurthy had
applied for appointment of Assistant Surgeon in Madras Medical
Services in pursuant to notification published by Madras Public
Service Commission inviting applications. However, later on, it was
found that the accused had misrepresented himself by impersonating
as some other person and also misrepresented about his parentage
and place of birth. It was also found that accused was not even
holding minimum educational qualification i.e. degree of MBBS and
thus he misled the Public Service Commission Authorities to believe
the said misrepresentation to be true. Upon final conviction of the
accused for the offence U/S 419 IPC i.e. cheating by impersonation

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 168 of 467
 by Hon'ble High Court of Madras, the accused challenged his
conviction before Hon'ble Supreme Court by way of Special Leave
Petition. The issue as to whether by way of said case of
misrepresentation/impersonation, the accused deceived Government
of Madras or not came up for consideration. While discussing
various aspects of the offence of cheating and thereby that of
cheating by impersonation, the observations made by Hon'ble
Supreme Court will be worth referring to: It is in view of these provisions that the Public Service
 Commission invites applications for appointment to the various
 posts under the Government and subsequently makes a
 selection out of the candidates for appointment to those posts.
 The selection may be after holding a written examination or after
 interviewing candidates or after doing both. Names of the
 candidates selected are arranged in order of merit and forwarded
 to the Government. The Government is expected, as a rule, to
 make appointments to the posts from out of the list, in the same
 order. It has, however, discretion not to appoint any part of the
 persons so selected and securing a place in the order of merit
 which would have ordinarily led to his appointment. 14. Any representation made in an application for
 appointments is really a representation made to the Government,
 the appointing authority, and not only to the Public Service
 Commission to which the application is presented and which has

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 170 of 467
 to deal with that application in the first instance. up to the
 stage ,of selection. The object of the applicant was to secure an
 appointment and not merely to deceive the Public Service
 Commission and sit at the examination or to appear at the
 interview. The deception was practised for that purpose and
 therefore there seems to be no good reason for holding that the
 deception came to an end once the Service Commission was
 deceived and had taken action on it as a result of the deception.
 A false representation in an application to the Service
 Commission continues and persists to be so till the application is
 considered by the final authority responsible for making the
 appointments and must therefore be deemed to be made to that
 final authority as well. In the instant case, when the
 recommendation of the Service Commission was sent to the
 Government, the qualifications of the recommended candidates,
 including the fact that the appellant had passed the M.B.,B.S.
 examination were mentioned. The Government therefore
 believed that the appellant possessed the degree of M.B.B.S.,
 that as the Service Commission had scrutinized the application
 in that regard and had satisfied itself that the appellant
 possessed that degree. The consequence of that is that the
 Government were led to believe that fact, which thus became a
 false representation. We are therefore of opinion that the appellant's mis-
 representation to the Service Commission continued and
 persisted till the final stage of the Government passing an order
 of appointment and that therefore the Government itself was
 deceived by the misrepresentation he had made in his
 application presented to the Service Commission." (Emphasis supplied by me) 186. Thus on similar lines in the present case also, it is clear that
the dishonest misrepresentation as were made by the accused
persons before the Screening Committee continued even before
Prime Minister as Minister of Coal also when he approved the
recommendation of Screening Committee. The Screening Committee
was admittedly constituted to deal with all applications received for
allotment of various coal blocks and to make its recommendation
thereafter. The Prime Minister as Minister of Coal was thus to act
CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 171 of 467
 upon the said recommendation only. Accordingly the dishonest
misrepresentation made before the Screening Committee continued
even before the Prime Minister as Minister of Coal when he approved
the recommendations of the Screening Committee. (However
whether the accused MOC officers were acting in pursuance of any
conspiracy with the private parties involved and thereby facilitated
them in continuing with their misrepresentations even before Minister
of Coal or not shall be discussed by me at a later stage of the present
judgment.) 187. At this stage before proceeding further it will be now
worthwhile to discuss the role played by the three accused persons
i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick. I shall be however first discussing the role played by A-3
Anand Mallick. F (ix) Role of A-3 Anand Mallick. 188. It has been the consistent stand of accused Anand Mallick
that he merely acted as an Authorized Representative of company
M/s VMPL on account of the fact that he was a resident of Delhi NCR
area and as the company M/s VMPL was based in Kolkata so it could
not have deputed an employee from Kolkata to interact with MOC on
every ocassion whenever need arose. It was also submitted that the
application forms or the feed back form submitted by accused Anand
Mallick with MOC were already filled up in Kolkata before he received
them in Delhi. As regard his presence before the Screening
CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 172 of 467
 Committee at the time of presentation on 07.02.08, it was submitted
that he accompanied co-accused Vikash Patni and PW-15 Ranjan
Barma only because he was the authorised representative of the
company M/s VMPL and his presence was required as per the
guidelines issued by MOC governing allocation of captive coal blocks. 189. It has also been argued that no other evidence has been
brought on record by the prosecution which could show that accused
Anand Mallick in any manner ever conspired with other accused
persons so as to procure allocation of a captive coal block in favour of
company M/s VMPL from MOC or that accused Anand Mallick was
aware of any mis-representation made in the application form on
behalf of M/s VMPL or even in the feed-back form or in the
presentation made before the Screening Committee. It has also been
submitted that accused Anand Mallick had no knowledge of the fact
that allotment of 300 acres of land in favour of M/s VMPL has since
been canceled by BIADA. As regard recovery of copy of cancellation
letter qua allotment of land from his possession during the course of
search operation carried out by CBI, it has been submitted that when
during the course of preliminary enquiry registered by CBI this fact
came to the knowledge of accused Anand Mallick then he himself had
obtained the copy of the said cancellation order from the office of
BIADA and provided it to IO and in this process only the copy of the
said order was available with him which was subsequently recovered
by CBI during the course of search operation. It has thus been
submitted that as prosecution has clearly failed in proving that

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 173 of 467
 accused Anand Mallick had any malafide intention in merely signing
the application form or feed-back form so the charge of cheating or
that of criminal conspiracy cannot hold ground against him. My Discussion 190. At the outset, I may state that none of the aforesaid
contentions of accused Anand Mallick hold ground at all. As has been
discussed and demonstrated above all the correspondence on behalf
of company M/s VMPL with different departments of Government of
Bihar including BIADA was primarily undertaken by accused Anand
Mallick under his own signatures only. In these circumstances the
averment that accused Anand Mallick was appointed as an
Authorized Representative by company M/s VMPL only because he
was available in Delhi and the company was based in Kolkata, does
not hold ground at all. A-3 Anand Mallick clearly had played an active
role as Business Development Manager of the company M/s VMPL,
not only in the allotment of land to M/s VMPL by BIADA but
subsequently also when BIADA initiated the proceedings to cancel
the said allotment of land. Thus the active role played by accused
Anand Mallick in the affairs of M/s VMPL relating to various aspects
towards establishing its end use plant and also in the process of
procuring allocation of a captive coal block from MOC in favour of A-1
M/s VMPL stands well proved on record. 191. Moreover, accused Anand Mallick admittedly also appeared
before the Screening Committee at the time of presentation and

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 174 of 467
 submitted the feed-back form on behalf of the company. As earlier
also discussed accused Anand Mallick was in fact the signatory of
various communications vide which BIADA was informed that the
company M/s VMPL no longer intends to establish the proposed
integrated steel plant and in its place intends to establish a 2000 MW
power plant. Thus the claim of accused Anand Mallick that he was not
aware that any false fact has been mentioned either in the feed-back
form or in the presentation made before the Screening Committee
also does not hold ground. Despite knowing fully well that the
company has since dropped the idea of establishing the integrated
steel plant and has rather decided to establish a 2000 MW power
plant, the feed-back form was still submitted to Screening Committee
by accused Anand Mallick under his own signatures stating that steps
are being taken to establish the integrated steel plant. Similarly,
presentation was also made in the presence of accused Anand
Mallick on behalf of company M/s VMPL that it is proceeding ahead
with establishing the proposed integrated steel plant even though he
knew fully well that company M/s VMPL do not intend to establish any
such plant. 192. Moreover, irrespective of the fact as to whether accused
Anand Mallick had any knowledge or not that figures of turnover,
profit and net-worth of company M/s VMPL have been wrongly
mentioned in the application form, but he certainly cannot claim
ignorance about the total number of annexures or the descriptions
thereof filed along with the application form as was submitted under

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 175 of 467
 his signatures. As already discussed and demonstrated above, no
project report was filed along with the application even though on the
alleged covering letter of the application, it was mentioned that
project report has been filed and receipt of application was
accordingly obtained on the said covering letter from the officials
posted at Scope Minar, Laxmi Nagar who were receiving the
applications. This act again goes to establish the very malafide
intention from the beginning on the part of accused persons in
misleading MOC, Government of India so as to deceive it and
thereby induce it to allocate a captive coal block in favour of company
M/s VMPL. 193. Moreover the claim of accused Anand Mallick that copy of
cancellation order of 300 acres of land issued by BIADA was
recovered from his possession during the course of search operation
only because during the course of preliminary enquiry registered by
CBI he himself had procured copy of the said order from BIADA and
had supplied it to CBI while also retaining a copy thereof in the said
process does not per se appears to be carrying any force. The
reasons for the same are ample and clear. From the various communications undertaken on behalf
of company M/s VMPL with BIADA as have been reproduced above
and have also been discussed in detail, it is clear that company M/s
VMPL was well aware that the allotment of land in their favour is
liable to be cancelled by BIADA as company has failed to comply with
the twin conditions i.e. making payment for the land by 30.06.2007

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 176 of 467
 and to also construct boundary wall around the land and failing which
allotment of land will be canceled. Receipt of communication dated
07.05.2007 in this regard from BIADA has not been disputed by the
accused persons. Subsequently, vide another communication dated
15.06.2007 whose receipt has also not been disputed on behalf of the
company, it was clearly specified by BIADA that as no steps have
been taken either to make the payment of the land or to construct the
boundary wall and which conditions were to be fulfilled by 30.06.2007
so it appears that company was not inclined to establish the proposed
project at the given land and thus the company was asked as to why
the allotment of land should not be deemed to have come to an end.
In fact, the company M/s VMPL had thereafter responded to BIADA
vide another communication dated 28.06.2007 under the signatures
of accused Anand Mallick only seeking extension of time to make
payment and to construct boundary wall till 31.08.2007. However, the
cancellation order issued by BIADA on 21.09.2007 further shows that
even till 31.08.2007 no such steps were taken by the company i.e.
either to make the payment of the land or to construct the boundary
wall. Admittedly no further extension of time in this regard was even
sought by the company M/s VMPL from BIADA. 194. The aforesaid circumstances thus clearly shows that matter in
this regard was being regularly followed up by the company M/s
VMPL with BIADA and it thus cannot be presumed even for the sake
of arguments that after 28.06.2007 company M/s VMPL stopped
pursuing the matter with BIADA. The issue that the letter dated

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 177 of 467
 21.09.07 qua cancellation of allotment of land was sent by BIADA to
the registered office of company by registered post has also been
already dealt by me. It has come in the evidence of PW 4 Sh.
Devanand Dutta, Official of BIADA that after the said letter was
posted in the routine course of their duty, the same was not received
back. Nothing has been shown by the accused persons which could
even remotely suggest that the said letter was never delivered at the
registered office of company M/s VMPL. More so all the
communications sent by BIADA prior to order dated 21.09.07 were
also at the same address and it has not been disputed at all that any
such communication was not received by them. In fact all such
correspondence were duly responded to by the company. Thus in
these circumstances it can not be presumed even for the sake of
arguments that order dated 21.09.07 was not delivered at the office
address of company A-1 M/s VMPL. 195. No evidence has even been brought on record by accused
Anand Mallick to show that during the course of preliminary enquiry
he had gone to the office of BIADA to collect the copy of said
cancellation order to be supplied to the Enquiry Officer. Moreover,
even if it is presumed that such a copy of letter was supplied by
accused Anand Mallick to the Enquiry Officer, who was conducting
preliminary enquiry then also this fact does not show that the said
letter was earlier not received by accused Anand Mallick or was not to
his knowledge in the year 2007-08. 196. In view of my aforesaid discussion, I am thus of the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 178 of 467
 considered opinion that prosecution has been completely successful
in proving various overt acts on the part of accused Anand Mallick to
show that not only he was actively involved in the affairs of company
M/s VMPL especially as regard the coal block allocation process but
he too was having the malafide intention right from the beginning so
as to mislead MOC, Government of India so as to procure allocation
of a captive coal block in favour of company M/s VMPL. F (x) Role played by A-2 Vikash Patni 197. As regard the role played by A-2 Vikash Patni, Ld. Counsel
Dr. Sushil Kumar Gupta vehemently argued that in the facts and
circumstances of the case, no offence whatsoever is made out
against any of the accused persons much less against A-2 Vikash
Patni. It was submitted that A-2 Vikash Patni had no role to play in the
entire matter and keeping in view the principle of "alter ego" as was
explained by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case Sunil Bharti Mittal
Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2015) 4 SCC 609, no liability
of any nature whatsoever can be attributed upon him. It was also
argued by Ld. Defence Counsel that prosecution has miserably failed
to prove that application of A-1 M/s VMPL was incomplete in any
manner and also that the figures of turnover, profit or net-worth
mentioned in the application were wrong. It was submitted that during
the course of trial, it has been established on record by the accused
persons that document Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) i.e. the application of
M/s VMPL as has been produced and relied upon by CBI is not a
complete document and thus no conclusion much less any adverse

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 179 of 467
 inference can be drawn against the accused persons on the basis of
such an incomplete document. It was also submitted that admittedly
as per the case of prosecution itself the application in question was
submitted to MOC under the signatures of A-3 Anand Mallick who
was the Business Development Manager of the company. It was
further stated that A-2 Vikash Patni was merely looking after the plant
operation of the company at Purulia, West Bengal and thus had no
role to play in the day to day working of the company. Even as regard
the presentation made before the Screening Committee on
07.02.2018, it was submitted that A-2 Vikash Patni had merely
accompanied PW-15 Sh. Ranjan Barma to the Screening Committee
meeting who admittedly had made the presentation and at that time
A-3 Anand Mallick, the authorised representative of the company was
duly present. It was thus submitted by Ld. Defence Counsel that in
the absence of any overt or covert act on the part of A-2 Vikash Patni,
no liability of any nature whatsoever can be attributed upon him. My Discussion 198. At the outset, I may state that the issues relating to non-filing
of project report alongwith the application or the audited annual
accounts/reports of Impex Group of Companies alongwith the
application submitted to MOC on 12.01.2007 have already been dealt
with by me in the earlier part of present judgement. It has also been
concluded that not only the application of M/s VMPL as was
submitted to MOC was incomplete in terms of the guidelines issued
by MOC governing allocation of captive coal blocks but even the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 180 of 467
 figures of turnover, profit and net-worth mentioned in the application
did not tally with the balance sheets of M/s VMPL which were
annexed with the application. It has also been discussed at length
that in the application it was no where disclosed that applicant
company M/s VMPL was either a SPV or a group company of Impex
Group of Companies. It has also been discussed that in the feed-
back form submitted under the signatures of A-3 Anand Mallick at the
time of presentation before the Screening Committee, the factum of
allocation of 300 acres of land by Government of Bihar was wrongly
mentioned as by that time the said allotment of land was already
cancelled by BIADA. It has also been concluded that the company
had knowledge that vide order dated 21.09.07 the allotment of 300
acres of land in its favour has since been canceled by BIADA. In
these circumstances, I do not intend to revisit those issues over here
again and I propose to confine my discussion to the role played by
A-2 Vikash Patni only. 199. As regard the concept of vicarious liability, I may state that Ld.
Counsel for A-2 Vikash Patni is certainly right that the Managing
Director of a Company can not be simplicitor held liable for any acts
committed by the company or any of its officers unless evidence of
some overt or covert act attributable to the said Managing Director
comes on record. In these circumstances what is now required to be
seen is as to whether prosecution has been successful in proving on
record any such overt or covert act attributable to A-2 Vikash Patni
which may make him liable for any of the offence committed by A-1

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 181 of 467
 M/s VMPL or A-3 Anand Mallick, the Business Development Manager
of the company. 200. In this regard it would be worthwhile to refer to an application
dated 24.08.2006 submitted on behalf of company M/s VMPL to
BIADA seeking allocation of 200 acres of land for its integrated steel
plant. The said application as is available from page 213-216 in file
Ex. P-3 (Colly) (D-4) was admittedly submitted under the signatures
of Vikash Patni himself. It is pursuant to the said application only that
200 acres of land was initially allotted by BIADA in district Begusarai
Bihar. Subsequently on another request of company M/s VMPL
though submitted under the signatures of A-3 Anand Mallick another
100 acres of land was allotted to the company by BIADA. Thereafter
all the subsequent correspondence which were undertaken by BIADA
with the company M/s VMPL were also addressed to Vikash Patni,
the Managing Director of the company. The said communications
were sent at the same address which was furnished by A-2 Vikash
Patni in his initial application dated 24.08.2006 and the same were
duly responded to by the company. A-3 Anand Mallick had thereafter
made various correspondence with BIADA on behalf of M/s VMPL
under his signatures. Thus from the aforesaid circumstances, it is
clear that A-2 Vikash Patni himself was actively involved in the
allotment of land in favour of company M/s VMPL from BIADA. Apart
from the aforesaid circumstances we have also on record the
documents recovered during the course of search operation from the
house of Vikash Patni. The said documents contains copies of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 182 of 467
 various press clippings. All the said documents have been admitted to
be genuine u/s 294 Cr.PC by A-2 Vikash Patni and certainly can be
referred to by this Court. In the said documents there are some
press-clipping with photographs and from a bare perusal of the same
it is clear that the MOU entered into between M/s VMPL and Bihar
Electricity Board (BEB) in connection with Integrated Power Plant to
be set up at Begusarai, Bihar was signed on behalf of M/s VMPL by
A-2 Vikash Patni only. It has been also already discussed that after
initially proposing to set up an integrated steel plant, the company
M/s VMPL had instead proposed to establish an integrated power
plant on the same very land which was allotted to it by BIADA. It was
in this regard that a MOU was entered into by M/s VMPL with Bihar
Electricity Board. This circumstance thus once again shows the active
involvement of A-2 Vikash Patni in establishing the end use plant of
M/s VMPL at Begusarai, Bihar. 201. I have also already discussed and demonstrated that the
order dated 21.09.2007 vide which allotment of 300 acres of land in
favour of M/s VMPL was cancelled by BIADA was also addressed to
A-2 Vikash Patni and was posted at the same address which was
mentioned as correspondence address in the application dated
24.08.2006 submitted by A-2 Vikash Patni to BIADA. I have also
concluded that there is no reason to disbelieve that A-1 or its officers
or directors were not having knowledge that allotment of 300 acres of
land has since been cancelled by BIADA. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 183 of 467 202. Moreover from the fact that MOU with Bihar Electricity Board
in connection with establishing the power project at Begusarai, Bihar
on the same land which was earlier allotted to be the company M/s
VMPL by BIADA for establishing the integrated steel plant was signed
by A-2 Vikash Patni himself so he knew very well that the company is
no longer establishing the integrated steel plant, qua which
presentation was being made before the Screening Committee or
whose details were being mentioned in the feed back form submitted
to Screening Committee. This fact in itself establishes the existence
of malafide intention on the part of A-2 Vikash Patni in deceiving
MOC, Government of India so as to procure allocation of a captive
coal block. 203. Thus if in these circumstances the presence of A-2 Vikash
Patni at the time of presentation in the Screening Committee meeting
is considered then it is found that in the feed-back form submitted to
Screening Committee on 07.02.08 on behalf of A-1 M/s VMPL it was
wrongly claimed that 300 acres of land stands allotted in favour of
company and it was well to the knowledge of A-2 Vikash Patni that
the said allotment of land has since been cancelled by BIADA. Thus
the active and overt acts on behalf of A-2 Vikash Patni in the coal
block allocation process on behalf of company M/s VMPL are writ
large on the face of the record. The argument put-forth in this regard
by Ld. Counsels for accused that the presentation was made by PW-
15 Ranjan Barman and that A-2 Vikash Patni had no role to play in
the presentation or submission of feed-back form also does not hold

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 184 of 467
 ground as in his deposition PW-15 Ranjan Barman clearly stated that
he had gone to the Screening Committee meeting on the request of
Vimal Kumar Patni, who was father of A-2 Vikash Patni and to only
read the presentation in English as A-2 Vikash Patni himself was not
proficient in English. Strangely enough no question or suggestion
disputing the aforesaid deposition of the said witness was put to him
in his cross-examination on behalf of A-2 Vikash Patni. In these
circumstances there is no reason to even doubt the deposition of PW-
15 Ranjan Barman in this regard. 204. From my aforesaid discussion it is thus crystal clear that A-2
Vikash Patni is not being arrayed as accused or tried or being held
liable on the basis of principle of alter ego or on the basis of vicarious
liability but prosecution in my considered view has been clearly
successful in proving on record cogent and convincing evidence to
show that A-2 Vikash Patni was not only consistently involved in the
affairs of M/s VMPL but was also actively involved in procuring
allocation of a captive coal block from MOC Government of India in
favour of M/s VMPL. 205. However before parting away with the present issue, I may
state that during the course of investigation no efforts seems to have
been made to collect other evidence of the company A-1 M/s VMPL
such as the board resolution passed in the meetings of Board of
Directors which would have certainly thrown light as to various other
aspects and especially as regard the knowledge of all these aspects
to the company and its other officers/directors. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 185 of 467
 F (xi) Role played by A-1 M/s VMPL. 206. From the aforesaid extensive discussion of the prosecution
case, it is crystal clear that both A-2 Vikash Patni who was the
Managing Director of A-1 M/s VMPL and A-3 Anand Mallick who was
the Business Development Manager of the company were clearly
acting on behalf of company i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL so as to deceive
MOC Government of India so as to procure allocation of a captive
coal block in favour of company M/s VMPL. In other words the
company M/s VMPL was acting through the said two persons in
making various representations either before different authorities in
state of Bihar or before MOC so as to procure allocation of a captive
coal block in its favour. However Ld. Counsel Sh. Sougat Sinha
submitted that as company M/s VMPL has already gone in liquidation
and pursuant to filing of a winding-up petition before Hon'ble High
Court of Calcutta, an Official Liquidator has been appointed. It has
been thus pointed out that the official status of A-1 M/s VMPL is no
longer the same status as was there at the time of submitting the
application to MOC for seeking allocation of a captive coal block. It
has thus been submitted that in these circumstances the company A-
1 M/s VMPL ought not to be convicted for any offence, if made out on
the basis of acts of A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick
committed at the time of seeking allocation of captive coal block from
MOC, Government of India, in favour of the company. My Discussion

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 186 of 467 207. In this regard, I may state that what is being looked into in the
present judgment is as to what all acts were committed by the various
parties involved in the present matter at the relevant time and what
was the effect thereof. Thus if on account of the said acts company
M/s VMPL is held guilty for any offence whatsoever then the various
submissions as have been made by Ld. Counsel Sh. Sougat Sinha
on behalf of Official Liquidator would be relevant and considered only
at the time of hearing on the point of sentence and not at this stage
i.e. when the quantum of punishment will be decided. At the cost of
repetition, I may thus state that since various acts of
misrepresentation were made on behalf of A-1 M/s VMPL by A-2
Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick so it can not be stated that the
company M/s VMPL is in any manner sought to be burdened with any
form of vicarious liability. F (xii) Whether the ingredients of the offence of cheating
stands proved. 208. Thus from the aforesaid discussion, it is clear beyond
shadows of any reasonable doubts that all the three accused namely
A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick dishonestly
misrepresented to 36th Screening Committee about its various claims
such as its intention to establish an integrated steel plant at
Begusarai, Bihar beside also presenting a higher status/stage of
preparation towards establishing the end use project and thereby
induced it to make a recommendation in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL for
allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block. It also stands well proved

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 187 of 467
 that MOC, Government of India was thereby deceived and was
induced to approve allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block i.e. a
valuable security in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL for its captive use. 209. The very ingredients of the offence of cheating i.e. u/s 420 IPC thus stands proved against all the three accused i.e. A-1 M/s
VMPL, A-2 M/s Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick. F (xiii) Whether the accused persons i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2
Vikash Patni And A-3 Anand Mallick acted in pursuance to a
criminal conspiracy. 210. Having come to the conclusion that all the three accused
persons i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick
cheated MOC, Government of India in order to procure allocation of
Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL, the next
issue to be considered is whether such acts of cheating were
committed by all the three accused persons in pursuance to a
criminal conspiracy hatched by them or not. 211. It has been vehemently argued by Ld. Counsels for the
accused persons that in order to establish the charge of criminal
conspiracy, the prosecution is required to prove that an agreement
was entered into by the accused persons either for doing of an illegal
act or for doing by illegal means an act which by itself may not be
illegal. It was submitted that a few bits here and a few bits there
cannot be relied upon by the prosecution in order to prove the charge
of criminal conspiracy. It was submitted that even if no direct

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 188 of 467
 evidence may be available and the charge of criminal conspiracy is
sought to be proved by way of circumstantial evidence then also each
of the circumstance leading to such a conclusion must be
independently explained and proved and the said circumstances
should not be explainable on any other hypothesis or in other words
should not lead to any other conclusion much less consistent with the
innocence of accused persons. It was thus submitted that prosecution
has miserably failed in proving existence of any agreement between
the three accused persons i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni and
A-3 Anand Mallick much less with the other accused MOC officers. 212. In order to appreciate the aforesaid submissions of Ld.
Counsels for the accused persons vis-a-vis the case of prosecution, it
will be appropriate to refer to the often quoted observations of Hon'ble
Supreme Court as regard the offence of criminal conspiracy as were
made in the case "State through Superintendent of Police,
CBI/SIT Vs. Nalini", 1999 (5) SCC 235. The said observations have
been consistently followed in all the cases till date. 213. In the said case, Hon'ble Supreme Court summarized the
broad principles governing the law of conspiracy as under: As stated above it is the unlawful agreement and not its
 accomplishment, which is the gist or essence of the crime of
 conspiracy. Offence of criminal conspiracy is complete even
 though there is no agreement as to the means by which the
 purpose is to be accomplished. It is the unlawful agreement,
 which is the graham of the crime of conspiracy. The unlawful
 agreement which amounts to a conspiracy need not be formal
 or express, but may be inherent in and inferred from the
 circumstances, especially declarations, acts, and conduct of
 the conspirators. The agreement need not be entered into by
 all the parties to it at the same time, but may be reached by
 successive actions evidencing their joining of the conspiracy.
 It has been said that a criminal conspiracy is a partnership in
 crime, and that there is in each conspiracy a joint or mutual
 agency for the prosecution of a common plan. Thus, if two or
 more persons enter into a conspiracy, any act done by any of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 191 of 467
 them pursuant to the agreement is in contemplation of law, the
 act of each of them and they are jointly responsible therefore.
 This means that everything said, written or done by any of the
 conspirators in execution or furtherance of the common
 purpose is deemed to have been said, done, or written by each
 of them. And this joint responsibility extends not only to what is
 done by any of the conspirators pursuant to the original
 agreement but also to collateral acts incident to and growing
 out of the original purpose. A conspirator is not responsible,
 however, for acts done by a co-conspirator after termination of
 the conspiracy. The joinder of a conspiracy by a new member
 does not create a new conspiracy nor does it change the status
 of the other conspirators, and the mere fact that conspirators
 individually or in groups perform different tasks to a common
 end does not split up a conspiracy into several different
 conspiracies. A man may join a conspiracy by word or by deed. However,
 criminal responsibility for a conspiracy requires more than a
 merely passive attitude towards an existing conspiracy. One
 who commits an overt act with knowledge of the conspiracy is
 guilty. And one who tacitly consents to the object of a
 conspiracy and goes along with other conspirators, actually
 standing by while the others put the conspiracy into effect, is
 guilty though he intends to take no active part in the crime." 214. Thus, undoubtedly direct evidence qua offence of criminal
conspiracy is hard to come up but the same is to be ascertained from
the overall facts and circumstances of a given case. 215. Coming now to the facts of the present case, it will be
pertinent to mention that the factum of submission of application Ex.
P-96 (Colly) (D-8) of A-1 M/s VMPL seeking allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block under the signatures of its authorised signatory
i.e. A-3 Anand Mallick stands well proved. The presence of A-2
Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick at the time of presentation
before the Screening Committee on 07.02.2008 has also been
cogently established. The submission of feed-back form at that time

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 192 of 467
 under the signatures of A-3 Anand Mallick also stands well proved on
record. It has also been clearly established in the earlier part of
present judgment that the company A-1 M/s VMPL never had any
intention to establish the proposed integrated steel plant and it was
also to its knowledge that the allotment of 300 acres of land in favour
of M/s VMPL has been cancelled by BIADA vide order dated
21.09.2007. It has been also well established and concluded that
both A-2 Vikash Patni, Managing Director of A-1 M/s VMPL and A-3
Anand Mallick, Business Development Manager of the company had
knowledge of both the aforesaid aspects. Thus when despite having
such a knowledge the accused persons i.e. A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3
Anand Mallick continued to pursue further with their application
submitted on behalf of A-1 M/s VMPL before the Screening
Committee, MOC, Government of India for seeking allocation of a
captive coal block, the said acts per-se shows the existence of an
agreement amongst them so as to procure allocation of a captive coal
block from MOC, Government of India in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL at
any cost whatsoever. The object to procure the allocation of said
captive coal block from MOC has also been discussed by me in as
much as the company wanted to divert coal produced from the said
coal block to its existing sponge iron plant at Purulia West Bengal and
especially because Government of West Bengal was not in favour of
allocation of any coal block situated in the State of West Bengal in
favour of M/s VMPL. It is also apparent from the facts and
circumstances of the case that company M/s VMPL had earlier also
applied for allocation of a captive coal block before MOC and their

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 193 of 467
 application was in fact also considered by 34 th and 35th Screening
Committee but it remained unsuccessful. The object of mentioning all
such details of the proposed end use project was to somehow meet
the criteria laid down by Ministry of Steel regarding proposed sponge
iron capacity to be achieved and thereby obtaining allotment of a
captive coal block from MOC, Government of India. 216. The issue regarding mentioning of inflated claims qua
financial strength of the company in the application has also been
already discussed by me and it was well to the knowledge of accused
persons that in terms of the guidelines issued by MOC governing
allocation of captive coal blocks, it was not permissible to mention the
figures of financial strength of any group company as the company
M/s VMPL was neither a special purpose vehicle (SPV) nor a joint
venture company constituted by any other company or companies.
Moreover in the application it was no where mentioned that company
M/s VMPL is a part of Impex Group of Companies. Thus from the
aforesaid facts and circumstances, we have a case where there is no
requirement of even drawing any inference about the existence of a
criminal conspiracy amongst the accused persons as the said
meeting of mind or existence of an agreement which is a sine-qua-
non for a criminal conspiracy to exist is writ large on the face of
record. The offence of criminal conspiracy i.e. u/s 120-B IPC thus
clearly stands proved beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts as
against A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 194 of 467
 F (xiv) Conclusion 217. From the aforesaid discussion it is thus clear that
prosecution has been successful in proving its case against all
the three accused persons namely A-1 M/s VMPL; A-2 Vikash
Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick for the offence of criminal
conspiracy i.e. u/s 120-B IPC and also for the offence of cheating
i.e. u/s 420 IPC beside also for the offence u/s 120-B / 420 IPC and
I accordingly hold them guilty of the said offences and convict
them thereunder. (G) Role of accused Ministry of Coal officers i.e. A-4 H.C.
Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria 218. After having discussed the role played by the private parties
involved i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick
in the entire coal block allocation process which led to allocation of
Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL, I shall be now
discussing the role played by accused MOC officers i.e. A-4 H.C.
Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria in the said coal block
allocation process. In order to appreciate the role of these officers of
MOC either in their capacity respectively as Secretary Coal and
Chairman Screening Committee; Joint Secretary Coal and Member
Convener, Screening Committee or Director CA-I Section, MOC, it
will be important to first delineate the role which was played by them
in the entire coal block allocation process. Thereafter it will be seen
as to whether various acts of omission or commission as have been

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 195 of 467
 attributed to them by the prosecution stands proved or not and what
is the cumulative effect of such proved acts of omission and
commission qua each of the three accused persons. 219. Admittedly an advertisement inviting applications for allotment
of captive coal blocks reserved for power sector or other end users
was issued by MOC after approval in this regard was given by
Secretary, Ministry of Coal i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta. The guidelines
governing allocation of all such captive coal blocks were also
approved and uploaded on the website of MOC with the approval of
A-4 H.C. Gupta. The period during which the applications were to be
received by MOC was also decided with the approval of Secretary
Coal. The guidelines under the title "Where to apply" clearly provided
all the details regarding the person to whom the applications in five
copies were to be addressed or the place where the applications
were to be submitted. The guidelines under the title "How to apply" 220. Though the purpose of framing all such guidelines by
MOC or the effect thereof shall be discussed by me at a later stage of
the present judgment but at this stage it will be worthwhile to mention
the various questions which this Court needs to answer while
examining the role played by accused MOC officers. The first and
foremost question which needs to be answered is whether the
aforesaid guidelines were binding upon both MOC and screening
committee. If yes, whether the same were followed and if not then
qua what aspects the same were not followed. The role and
responsibility of A-4 H.C. Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C.
Samria towards ensuring compliance with the said guidelines also
needs to be thereafter examined. It is also required to be seen as to
whose responsibility was it to comply with the said guidelines and
whether any such duty was assigned to any particular officer/official
or a given section in MOC. It also needs to be seen as to whether
the applications were actually checked for their completeness and
eligibility in MOC as was required under the guidelines and, if yes,

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 197 of 467
 whether the applications which were found to be incomplete in terms
of the said guidelines were actually rejected or not as was required
under the guidelines. In other words whether incomplete applications
were also to be considered by the screening committee instead of
getting them rejected at the initial stage itself in the MOC. The effect
of non-compliance with the guidelines on the coal block allocation
process will also be required to be seen. 221. Apart from the aforesaid questions other important issues
which needs to be examined by this Court are, whether non-
compliance with the guidelines to any extent by the accused MOC
officers was their conscious and intentional act and also whether the
same was in pursuance of any criminal conspiracy hatched by them
with other co-accused persons or not. It is thereafter only can it be
examined as to whether the acts of omission and commission as
stands proved against the MOC officers amount to criminal
misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 or not. 222. In order to appreciate the aforesaid issues comprehensively,
it will be appropriate to once again have a brief glance over the
relevant portion of the guidelines so issued by MOC. (The entire set
of guidelines have though already been reproduced in the earlier part
of the present judgment). 223. The procedure to apply for allocation of a coal block was
provided as under: 224. The place where the applications were to be submitted and
the person to whom the same were to be addressed was provided as
under: (Emphasis supplied by me) 225. As regard the procedure for processing of the applications,
the following guidelines were also put up on the website: 226. Further for ascertaining the interse priority of various
applicants for allocation of Coal Blocks for captive use, the following
guidelines were uploaded on the website: (Emphasis supplied by me) 227. It has been however vehemently argued by Ld. Counsel Sh.
Rahul Tyagi for A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria and by Ld.
Counsel Sh. Rajat Mathur for A-4 H.C. Gupta that it was the sole
responsibility of CA-1 Section, MOC to ensure compliance with the
said guidelines. Reference in this regard was also made to the
deposition of PW-1 V.S. Rana who stated that it was the responsibility
of CA-I Section to comply with the said guidelines. It was also
submitted that admittedly no written note was ever put up by CA-I
Section to any of the senior officers stating that the guidelines so
issued by MOC could not be complied with. It was thus submitted that
as no such note was put up by CA-I Section so there was no way in
which Joint Secretary Coal, K.S. Kropha or Secretary Coal, H.C.
Gupta could have known that the guidelines so issued regarding
processing of applications received in MOC have not been complied
with. It was further submitted that though PW-13 V.S. Rana stated in
his deposition in Court that he had verbally informed the senior
officers of MOC that the applications have not been checked for their
completeness and eligibility due to shortage of manpower and lack of
expertise on the part of officials of CA-I Section but he also stated
that he did not reproduce the said verbal information given by him in
the files of MOC much less getting the same confirmed from the
senior officers in accordance with the provisions of Manual of Office

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 202 of 467
 Procedure. His claim of having given verbal information to senior
officers was thus stated to be highly unbelievable and rather simply
an attempt to cover up his acts of omission and commission. It was
also submitted that Secretary Coal was though administrative head of
the Ministry but in such a vast Ministry as Ministry of Coal was, he
was having 15 Sections working under him and thus he could not
have been expected to look into the detailed working of each and
every section unless anything was specifically brought to his
knowledge. Similarly as regard Joint Secretary, Coal it was stated
that he too was having work of various wings/sections under him and
thus unless specific information is submitted to him by any given
section about difficulties being faced by them in complying with the
directions issued such as in complying with guidelines issued in the
present case, there was no way in which the senior officers of MOC
could have known that CA-I Section officials have not complied with
the guidelines or that it was difficult for them to comply with the
guidelines. It was also submitted that in the routine functioning of
Govt. of India the senior officers such as Secretary, or Joint
Secretary, in a Ministry works on the basis of trust and belief that the
officers of every section under them must have performed their duties
properly. 228. It was also submitted that whenever a request was put up by
CA-I Section officials seeking services of additional staff from the
office of Coal Controller or Coal India Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as
"CIL"), the said request was immediately acceded to by the senior

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 203 of 467
 officers. It was thus submitted that had CA-1 Section officers/officials
brought to their knowledge any such difficulty being faced by them in
complying with the guidelines then certainly additional staff would
have been arranged for or other necessary steps would have been
taken. 229. It was also submitted that working of a Ministry in Central
government is governed strictly by Central Secretariat Manual of
Office Procedure (herein-after referred to as "Manual of Office
Procedure). It was argued that the provisions of Manual of Office
Procedure were mandatory to be followed by all officers and officials
in the Ministry. It was accordingly submitted that Manual of Office
Procedure required that oral instructions if given by any senior officer
should be reduced into writing by the officer/official receiving them
and should be got confirmed from the officer giving such oral
instructions. It was thus argued that any oral statement being now
made by PW-1 V.S. Rana, the then Under Secretary, MOC contrary
to the written record ought not be relied upon. 230. It was also submitted that even minutes of the meetings of
36th Screening Committee were recorded in accordance with para 54
(4) (c) of the Manual of Office Procedure. It was also submitted that
common minutes of all the 5 sittings of 36 th Screening Committee as
were held on 7/8.12.2007, 7/8.02.2008 and 03.07.2008 were
recorded since the said five sittings can not be construed as separate
meetings of Screening Committee warranting recording of separate
minutes of the meetings immediately thereafter. It was submitted that

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 204 of 467
 primarily the discussion which 36th Screening Committee undertook
spanned over 5 sittings and thus there was no requirement in law to
record separate minutes of each of the sittings immediately after its
conclusion and more so when the final recommendations were made
by the Screening Committee in its meeting held on 03.07.08 only.
Beside placing reliance on para 54 (4) (c) of Manual of Office
Procedure, reference was also made to a book titled "Shackleton on
the Law and Practice of Meetings". In fact reference to the said book
was also made qua various other aspects also i.e. as regard the role
of Chairman or that of Member Convener, the quorum required for the
meeting or the procedure in which a meeting as that of Screening
Committee ought to be held or as to how minutes of a meeting ought
to be recorded. 231. As regard the claim of PW-1 V.S. Rana that CA-I Section
officials were not having the required technical, legal or financial
knowledge to check the applications, it was submitted that they were
not required to examine the documents annexed so as to carry out an
analysis of the same and they were only required to check as to
whether total number of documents as were required to be annexed
with the applications in terms of the guidelines were there or not. It
was also submitted that to examine the documents annexed with the
applications was the job of Administrative Ministries and State
Governments. Reference in this regard was made to the minutes of
14th and 18th Screening Committee meetings. It was submitted that
even though the said decisions were not part of guidelines issued by

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 205 of 467
 MOC but were otherwise being followed in practice by all concerned. 232. As regard the allegation of prosecution that the minutes were
silent as to the reason for which M/s VMPL was recommended for
allocation of a coal block or as to why other applicant companies who
too had applied for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block were not
recommended, it was submitted that as the decision of the Screening
Committee was unanimous so only essence of outcome of the
deliberations was recorded. It was submitted that MOC
officers/officials were bound to strictly follow the provisions of Manual
of Office Procedure an in case of any deviance, the concerned
officer/official was required to record reasons for the same in
accordance with para 30 of Manual of Office Procedure titled
"Deviation from Normal Procedure of Rules". Ld. Counsel for
accused public servants also argued that the senior officers of MOC
who are now facing trial were in fact never informed by any
officer/official of MOC much less by those of CA-1 Section that the
applications have not been checked for their eligibility and
completeness. It was submitted that in fact from the deposition of
PW-1 V.S. Rana, it is clear that CA-1 Section followed the past
practice in the processing of applications. While referring to
deposition of DW-2 M.R. Attrey and DW-7 Prem Raj Kuar it was
submitted that at the time of 34 th Screening Committee the
applications were clearly checked for their completeness and thus
there is no reason to presume now that the applications received qua
36th Screening Committee were not checked for their completeness. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 206 of 467 233. As regard A-6 K.C. Samria it was submitted by Ld. Counsel
Sh. Rahul Tyagi that he was given additional charge of CA-1 Section
only on 16.03.2007 and by which date copies of applications were
already sent to Administrative Ministries/State Governments
concerned and also to CMPDIL. It was submitted that from
16.03.2007 till April 2007 A-6 K.C. Samria was having charge of other
sections also and was finally posted to CA section only in the month
of May 2007. 234. In fact the whole emphasis of all the three accused persons
namely A-4 H.C. Gupta , A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria, was
that it was PW -1 V.S. Rana, Under Secretary, MOC and the officials
of CA-I Section working under him who were primarily responsible
for ensuring compliance with the guidelines issued by MOC. It was
also pointed out that while sending copies of the applications to
Administrative Ministries/State Governments or to CMPDIL the
relevant file was never put up before the senior officers by PW-1 V.S.
Rana even though for other innocuous matters such as procuring
locks and trunks or for making transportation arrangements the file
was put up to the level of Joint Secretary, Coal. It was thus asserted
that unless the issue of non-compliance with the guidelines was
brought to the notice of senior officers of MOC by PW-1 V.S. Rana or
by other officials of CA-I, Section there was no way that the accused
MOC officers could have known that the guidelines governing
allocation of coal blocks have not been complied with. 235. On the other hand it has been vehemently argued by Ld. Sr.

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 207 of 467
 P.P. that PW-1 V.S. Rana has repeatedly stated that provisions of
Manual of Office Procedure were not strictly followed in the routine
day to day functioning of the Ministry. It was submitted that when
various proceedings which admittedly took place in MOC are seen in
the light of notings recorded in the file then it is seen that the
provisions of Manual of Office Procedure were not strictly followed in
the routine day to day functioning. Even as regard the recording of
minutes of various meetings of 36th Screening Committee, it was
submitted that admittedly separate minutes were recorded qua
various sittings of 34th Screening Committee in MOC and more so
when 34th Screening Committee was also headed by A-4 H.C. Gupta
only with A-5 K.S. Kropha as Member Convener thereof. Ld. Senior
P.P. also placed on record certified copy of the deposition of accused
public servants as was recorded u/s 315 Cr.PC in another coal block
allocation matter pertaining to 36 th Screening Committee meeting
itself and as has since been decided by this Court i.e. CBI Vs. M/s
KSSPL, to show that in the said trial accused public servants
themselves admitted in their deposition that the applications were not
checked for their eligibility and completeness in MOC, even though
they did claim that they were never informed at the relevant time
about the same by any officer/official of CA-1 Section. 236. Before I embark on any discussion qua any of the issues so
raised by Ld. Defence Counsels or by Ld. Sr. P.P, I may mention over
here that whether the deposition of accused public servants recorded u/s 315 Cr.PC during the trial of another case since decided by this

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 208 of 467
 Court can be now referred to or not in the present case will be
considered at the time when the relevant issue will come-up for
discussion. Thus I would like to place on record a note of caution that
in the subsequent part of the judgment the issue as to what all
documents relied upon either by prosecution or by defence can be
referred to in the present proceedings shall be duly kept in mind and
any such documents referred to by any of the parties will be
considered purely on the basis of their relevancy, admissibility and
proof in accordance with the provisions of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . I now deem it appropriate to first deal with the primary
issue as to whether applications so received in MOC were
contemplated to be dealt with under the provisions of Manual of
Office Procedure and if yes then to what extent the provisions thereof
were followed. The applicability of the said provisions to the
Screening Committee proceedings shall also be seen and examined. G (i) Whether the process of receiving the applications or
their subsequent processing in Ministry of Coal was dealt
with in accordance with the provisions of Central Secretariat
Manual of Office Procedure. 237. As earlier mentioned all during the entire trial Ld. Counsels for
the accused MOC officers placed lot of emphasis upon the
applicability of provisions of Manual of Office Procedure in the
working of Ministry of Coal and Screening Committee. It was
vehemently argued that the working of a Ministry in Central
Government has to be strictly undertaken in accordance with the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 209 of 467
 provisions of Manual of Office Procedure. It was submitted that if any
action was undertaken in violation of provisions of Manual of Office
Procedure then not only said official/officer is liable to explain reasons
for such a deviation/violation but also as to why specific reasons were
not recorded in the file for the same. It was also submitted that in the
light of provisions of Manual of Office Procedure, no oral evidence
contrary to the written records should be held to be admissible. 238. The issue of applicability of provisions of Manual of Office
Procedure to the coal block allocation process assumes all the more
importance since PW-1 V.S. Rana, the then Under Secretary, MOC
stated that in day to day functioning of the Ministry, the provisions of
Manual of Office Procedure are not strictly followed. It thus becomes
important to see that if the Manual of Office Procedure was applicable
then whether in routine day to day functioning, the provisions thereof
were strictly followed or not. 239. As regard the applicability of Manual of Office Procedure to
the working of a Ministry in Central Government, it would be suffice to
state that the Manual of Office Procedure certainly forms the back-
bone of process management in the Central Secretariat. As
mentioned in the introduction part of the manual in Chapter-I itself the
very purpose of introducing such a manual by the Central
Government is to attempt to balance the conflicting consideration of
speed and priority. 240. In this regard before proceeding further to examine the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 210 of 467
 applicability of Manual of Office Procedure to the day to day routine
functioning of a Ministry in Government of India. it would be
appropriate to first have a brief glance of the scheme of various
chapters in which the Manual of Office Procedure has been divided
and also the nature of issues which it intends to address. 1 (14) "Dak" includes every type of written communication such
 as letter, telegram, interdepartmental note, file, fax, e-mail,
 wireless message which is received, whether by post or
 otherwise, in any department for its consideration. 1 (47) "Receipt" means Dak after it has been received by the
 concerned section/officer. 243. Thus keeping in view the aforesaid definition of "Dak" it will be
important to first analyze as to whether the applications so received
by MOC seeking allotment of captive coal blocks in response to
advertisement issued by it can be termed as "Dak" as defined under
the "Manual of Office Procedure". In this regard it will be required to
be first seen as to whether the applications so invited by way of
advertisement can be termed as "Written Communication" as
contemplated under the "Manual of Office Procedure". CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 212 of 467 244. Chapter VIII of the "Manual of Office Procedure" provides for
Forms and Procedures of Communication. Para 50 of the said
Chapter provides for "Forms of Written Communications and
Methods of Delivery". The said list of written communications and
their methods of delivery as is generally used by a department talks
of letter, Demi-official letter, office memorandum, inter-departmental
note as forms of written communications and telegram, fax/telex,
registered post/registered AD, speed post, office order, order,
notification, resolution, press-communique/ note, endorsement,
circular, advertisement and e-mail as methods of delivery of written
communications. The form of various such written communications
have also been explained in Para 50 itself. Para 51 further talks of
telephonic communications. The remaining para(s) of Chapter VIII
deals with communications between inter-department or intra-
department etc. Apparently the applications so received in response
to advertisement issued by MOC inviting applications for allotment of
captive coal blocks can neither be termed as letter, Demi official
letter, office memorandum, inter-departmental note etc. so as to term
the said applications as written communication as contemplated
either in Para 50 titled "Forms of Written Communications and
Methods of Delivery" or as is mentioned in the definition of "Dak" in
para 1 (14) of the Manual of Office Procedure. Even though the
definition of "Dak" as given in Para 1 (14) is inclusive in nature but
even if the ordinary meaning of "Dak" is seen then also it is found that
applications so received in MOC in response to advertisement can
not be termed as "Dak". The word "Dak" as ordinarily understood and

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 213 of 467
 as has been defined in "Collins" Dictionary or in "Merriam Webster" 245. Thus it is clear that the word "Dak" has been used in the
Manual not only as a means of communication but also as a form of
communication. In this regard it would thus also take its colour from
various other forms of communications as are mentioned in the
definition given in para 1 (14) itself. Thus from the aforesaid discussion it is clear that
applications seeking allocation of captive coal blocks received in
response to advertisement issued by MOC can not be termed as
"Dak". 246. However not only from the aforesaid discussion, it is clear
that applications so invited by MOC can not be termed as "Dak" as
contemplated under the Manual of Office Procedure but from various
other circumstances also it is clear that even MOC itself never
intended or even contemplated to consider or deal with such
applications as "Dak" as per the provisions of Manual of Office
Procedure and were never actually dealt with by it as such. Certainly

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 214 of 467
 it would have been an ideal situation if at least the other subsequent
proceedings relating to coal block allocation process as were carried
out in MOC after receipt of applications would have been carried out
strictly as per the provisions of Manual of Office Procedure. My
subsequent discussion would however show that even subsequent
proceedings were also never dealt with strictly as per the provisions
of Manual of Office Procedure even by senior officers of MOC
(including accused public servants). The provisions of the Manual of
Office Procedure prescribing Procedure and Rules in the routine
working of Ministry of Coal were in fact observed more in breach. 247. At this stage, I may however make a mark of caution though
at the cost of repetition that I am not at all suggesting that Manual of
Office Procedure is not required to be followed in working of any
Ministry of Central Government but what is being examined over here
is the claim made by PW 1 V.S. Rana that in practical day to day
functioning provisions of Manual of Office Procedure were not
mandatorily followed. At the same time, the claim of accused public
servants that the Manual of Office Procedure was required to be
mandatorily followed even in routine functioning is also being
examined and also that no oral evidence ought to be entertained
firstly which is contrary to written record and secondly in those
situations where there ought to be written noting/endorsement in
accordance with provisions of Manual of Office Procedure and when
no such noting/endorsement exists on record. 248. Thus in order to examine as to whether provisions of Manual

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 215 of 467
 of Office Procedure were followed in routine day to day functioning of
MOC or not, it would be worthwhile to point out a noting dated
07.05.2007 (D-17) recorded by a dealing assistant of CA-I Section.
The said noting was duly forwarded by Sh. R.N. Singh the then
Section Officer, CA-I Section on 07.05.2007 itself to PW-1 V.S. Rana
the then Under Secretary and who further forwarded the same to A-6
K.C. Samria, the then Dy. Secretary CA-1 Section again on 07.05.07
itself. The said noting available at note sheet page 20 in note sheet
pages Ex. PW 1/N (Colly) in file Ex. P-13 (Colly) (D-17) read as
under: . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . (9) Functions of various levels of functionaries: He holds charge of a Secretariat Division and is
 responsible for the disposal of Government business dealt
 within the Division under his charge. He should, ordinarily

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 219 of 467
 be able to dispose of the majority of cases coming up to
 him on his own. He should use his discretion in taking
 orders of the Joint Secretary/Secretary on more important
 cases, either orally or by submission of papers. (d) Under Secretary -- An Under Secretary is in charge of
 the Branch in a Ministry consisting of two or more Sections
 and in respect thereto exercises control both in regard to
 the dispatch of business and maintenance of discipline.
 Work comes to him from the Sections under his charge.
 As Branch Officer, he disposes of as many cases as
 possible at his own level but he takes the orders of Deputy
 Secretary or higher officers on important cases." 253. Thus in the light of aforesaid provisions even if it is presumed
for the sake of arguments that A-6 K.C. Samria being the Deputy
Secretary had taken oral instructions from Joint Secretary, K.S.
Kropha or from Secretary, H.C. Gupta that such a meeting is to be
convened then as per Manual of Office Procedure itself and as per
the consistent arguments of Ld. defence Counsels themselves such
oral instructions ought to have been reduced into writing and got
confirmed from the officer(s) concerned i.e. from the officer(s) who
gave such instructions. However as already mentioned above the file
after it was put up with a noting by Sh. R.N. Singh dealing hand of
CA-I Section with draft notices to be sent to certain members of the
Screening Committee never travelled beyond the desk of A-6 K.C.
Samaria and the draft notices were approved by him only. Thus
admittedly such directions as were reduced into writing by the dealing
hand in CA-I Section were never got confirmed by A-6 K.C. Samria by
putting up the file to any of the senior officers i.e. either to A-5 K.S.
Kropha or to A-4 H.C. Gupta. Thus even if any oral directions are
presumed to have been given either by A-4 H.C. Gupta or by A-5 K.S.

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 220 of 467
 Kropha for holding of Screening Committee meeting on 11.05.2007
then also it was the bounden duty of A-6 K.C. Samria to get them
approved from the said senior officer(s). However A-6 K.C. Samria
chose to further pass on oral instructions to CA-I Section and when
the concerned dealing hand in the CA-I Section reduced those
instructions into writing then A-6 K.C. Samria did not think it
appropriate to send the file to senior officer(s) for getting the oral
instructions confirmed. In fact Para 54 (4) of the Manual of Office
Procedure which deals with inter-departmental meetings states that
no such meeting will normally be convened except under the orders
of an officer below the level of Joint Secretary. 254. At this stage, I may mention that though from the factum of
subsequent participation in the meeting by A-4 H.C. Gupta and A-5 K.
S. Kropha and consequent recording of minutes of the meeting held
on 11.05.2007, it can not be disputed that they did not consent to
holding of such a meeting but what is being examined over here is
whether provisions of Manual of Office Procedure were strictly
followed in MOC or not. The entire exercise being undertaken at
present is only to examine as to whether PW-1 V.S. Rana rightly
claimed that in routine day to day functioning the provisions of
Manual of Office Procedure were not mandatorily followed. In fact the
aforesaid actions of accused public servants in summoning such a
Screening Committee meeting rather goes to suggest that even qua
important matters i.e. even as regard summoning of Screening
Committee meeting also the provisions of Manual of Office Procedure

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 221 of 467
 were not followed. 255. There is yet another important aspect qua the holding of
meeting of Screening Committee on 11.05.2007. Though the said meeting is stated to be a meeting of the
Screening Committee but strangely enough and for reasons best
known to the accused public servants only, in the said meeting none
of the State Government representatives were called. Admittedly
various state Government representatives were Members of
Screening Committee and once again there is nothing in the file of
MOC as to why representatives of State Governments were not
called for in the said meeting or who took the said decision to not to
invite them. The noting of Sh. R.N. Singh clearly says that notice
have been directed to be issued to Ministry of Power/Ministry of
Steel/Ministry of Commerce (DIPP), CIL and to CMPDIL. 256. Apart from the aforesaid circumstances there is yet another
instance regarding meeting held on 11.05.2007, wherein provisions of
Manual of Office Procedure were apparently not complied with. 257. It has been the claim of accused public servants during the
course of trial that agenda of meeting held on 11.05.2007 was duly
prepared and circulated to the members of Screening Committee.
While referring to the deposition of PW-11 N.R. Dash it was pointed
out that such an agenda was though not available in the files of MOC
but was certainly available in the files of Ministry of Steel. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 222 of 467
 Though, at this stage I am not entering into any
discussion as regard the contents of said agenda or as to in what
circumstances the same came to be available in the files of Ministry
of Steel but the only point being highlighted over here is that the
entire notings in the files of MOC are completely silent as regard
preparation of any such agenda. Even the office memorandum dated
07.05.2007 Ex. PW-1/N1 sent to Members of Screening Committee
pursuant to approval given by A-6 K.C. Samria calling upon them to
attend the Screening Committee meeting to be held on 11.05.2007 is
also completely silent that any such agenda note is being sent either
along with the office memorandum or that the same will be sent
subsequently. There is no noting or office memorandum available
either in the files of MOC or in the files of Ministry of Steel which
could show that any such agenda note of the meeting was indeed
sent by MOC. 258. Though Ld. Counsels for the accused persons have tried to
argue that all the files of MOC have not been supplied to them and
thus, it cannot be concluded that there does not exist any file where
such an agenda was prepared. The aforesaid bald argument though
has been repeatedly taken up by the accused persons simply with a
view to create doubts about the veracity of prosecution case by
stating that complete record has not been produced but I may state
that from the sequence of various notings as are available in different
files of MOC and especially when they are considered in
chronological order, then it is clear that no file of MOC pertaining to

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 223 of 467
 period under discussion over here is missing. 259. In fact from a perusal of file Ex P-13 (Colly) (D-17) of MOC
which contains the notings regarding the process followed towards
issuance of advertisement for inviting applications and the
subsequent proceedings regarding summoning of Screening
Committee meetings, it is clear that whenever any agenda was to be
prepared for a proposed Screening Committee meeting then
appropriate notings were recorded in the same file itself by the
concerned officials. Thus it can not be even presumed for the sake of
arguments that while noting regarding holding of Screening
Committee meeting to be held on 11.05.2007 and consequent
issuance of notice to members of Screening Committee was recorded
in this file only i.e. in file Ex. P-13 (Colly) (D-17) but for preparation of
agenda of the meeting the relevant noting must have been put in
some other file. 260. Thus, once again there is a situation where there is no noting
in the files of MOC which could show that while summoning the
meeting of Screening Committee on 11.05.2007 any agenda thereof
was prepared. Moreover even if it is presumed that such an agenda
was indeed prepared then there is no noting in the files of MOC as to
who prepared the said agenda or who approved the same. Yet again
the notice of the meeting sent to members of Screening Committee is
also completely silent that any such agenda of meeting is being
enclosed along with the notice or is being separately sent. There is
again no noting or office memorandum available in the files of MOC

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 224 of 467
 or even in the files of Ministry of Steel which could show that such an
agenda was sent by MOC. In fact Para 54 (4) (b) of the Manual of
Office Procedure which talks about inter-departmental meetings
states that it will be ensured that an agenda setting up clearly the
points for discussion is prepared and sent alongwith the proposal for
holding the meeting, allowing adequate time for the representatives of
other departments to prepare themselves for the meetings. 261. Thus, even if it is presumed for the sake of arguments that
such an agenda was indeed sent by MOC and on account of which
the same was found in the files of Ministry of Steel but still the
proceedings in the files of MOC as discussed above conclusively
establish that the provisions of Manual of Office Procedure were not
followed in even important matters in MOC much less in routine day
to day functioning and that too by accused public servants
themselves also. 262. I have thus no reason to doubt the claim made by PW 1 V.S.
Rana that the provisions of Manual of Office Procedure were not
mandatorily followed in routine day to day functioning in the Ministry
or that at times certain matters were taken up for consideration on
verbal directions only or verbal instructions given by senior officers
used to be followed. I have also thus no reason to believe the claim of
accused public servants that the proceedings relating to coal block
allocation matters were conducted strictly in accordance with the
provisions of Manual of Office Procedure only. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 225 of 467
 In fact during the course of subsequent discussion I shall
be highlighting various other instances also where the provisions of
Manual of Office Procedure were again not followed even by the
senior officers of MOC. 263. For these reasons only, the argument of Ld. Counsels for
accused public servants that oral deposition of the witnesses where
written record ought to be there in accordance with Manual of Office
Procedure and especially where no such written record exists be not
considered, clearly does not hold ground. However it will be correct to
state that if any oral deposition which is contrary to the written record
is sought to be put forth, then it will not be appropriate to rely upon
the said oral deposition unless there is a reason to doubt the
correctness of the written record. Thus, at the cost of repetition I may
state that if no written record exists on any aspect then oral
deposition of the witnesses pertaining to the said event or aspect can
always be considered and if found reliable and credible then the
same can always be relied upon. G (ii) Whether the provisions of Manual of Office Procedure
were applicable to the proceedings of Screening Committee. 264. As regard the recording of minutes of various meetings of 36 th
Screening Committee as were held on 7/8.12.2007, 7/8.02.2008 and
03.07.2008, it has been argued by Ld. Counsels for the accused
public servants that all such meetings were in fact in the nature of
extended sittings of 36th Screening Committee and as they were all
part of one common meeting so their minutes were recorded in

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 226 of 467
 common after the conclusion of final meeting held on 03.07.08 i.e.
when the final recommendations of the Screening Committee were
arrived at. As regard the contents of the minutes it was argued that
the same have been recorded in accordance with the provisions of
Section 54 (4) (c) of Manual of Office Procedure and as all the
decisions so taken were unanimous so instead of recording detailed
reasons for the same, the essence and outcome of the deliberations
was only recorded. 265. Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh. Sanjay Kumar has however strongly opposed
the said contention stating that the minutes recorded by accused
MOC officers are so cryptic and vague that nothing is ascertainable
as to on what basis recommendation in favour of any company
including M/s VMPL was made. It was submitted that the minutes
ought to have disclosed not only the reasons for which the Screening
Committee arrived at any given decision but it also ought to have
mentioned the views/opinion expressed by various members during
the course of discussion in the meeting. It was also pointed out that at
the time of 34th Screening Committee with which A-4 H.C. Gupta and
A-5 K.S. Kropha were associated, separate minutes were recorded
with respect to each sitting of the Committee. My Discussion 266. Before I advert on to discuss this limb of argument put-forth
by Ld. Counsels for the accused public servants, it would be
worthwhile to have a brief glance over para 54 of Manual of Office
Procedure. The same read as under: departmental notes, inter-departmental meetings or oral
 discussions. (2) In making written inter-departmental references, the
 following points should be observed: The result of such oral consultation should be recorded in a
 single note on the file by the officer of the department to which
 the case belongs. The note will state clearly the conclusions
 reached and the reasons thereof. A copy of the note will also be
 sent to the departments consulted in order that they have a
 record of the conclusions reached. (6) Reopening of decisions arrived at after proper inter-
 departmental consultations should normally be avoided. In case
 adequate grounds exist for re-opening of such issues, it should
 be settled after a quick re-assessment. (7) In case two or more departments persist with their respective
 view points leading to a deadlock or impasse, such issues
 should be sorted out by raising the level of consideration to a
 forum like the Committee of Secretaries headed by the Cabinet
 Secretary or to the level of Ministers concerned, to arrive at a
 quick decision without continuing with protracted
 correspondence/discussions among the disputing departments. (8) Nodal Ministries/Departments, which render advice to
 various departments and do so through different Divisions, will
 ensure that the views expressed by them at inter-departmental
 discussions are consistent, and they are not found deviating
 from their views on different occasions. The expression of
 conflicting views by the different Divisions of the same
 department during such inter-departmental discussions should
 be discouraged." (Emphasis supplied by me)

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 230 of 467 267. As the title of para 54 shows that the same pertains to Inter-
departmental consultation so it will be appropriate to refer to the
definition of the word "Department" as is mentioned in para 1 (16) of
Manual of Office Procedure. The same will provide an idea as to what
is meant by an inter-departmental meeting. Para 1 (16) of Manual of Office Procedure read as under: 268. In this light if first schedule to the Government of India
(Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961 is referred to then it is found that
State Governments or any Department/Ministries of State
Governments are not mentioned over there. In these circumstances
the inter-departmental consultation referred to in para 54 can thus
pertain to only such consultations in which various Ministries,
Departments, Secretariats and offices of Central Government as
have been referred to in first schedule of the Allocation of Business
Rules, 1961 are involved. Certainly, if the State Governments are
also involved in such consultation then such a consultation will
become not only an inter-departmental consultation but also inter-
governmental consultation. In fact it has been the case of accused
public servants themselves and rightly so that the Screening
Committee was an inter-ministerial/inter-governmental body. Thus to
the meetings of such a body, the provisions of para 54 of Manual of
Procedure can certainly not apply for the same pertains to only inter- CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 231 of 467
 departmental consultations. In fact a careful perusal of the Manual of
Office Procedure further shows that the same is primarily meant to
apply to the functioning of various Ministries/Department, offices,
Secretariats of Central Government and not to the functioning of a
body whose structure is not only inter-departmental but also inter-
governmental. 269. Thus while provisions of Manual of Office Procedure may be
held to be applicable to the functioning of MOC but it can not be
presumed that the same were applicable to the functioning of
Screening Committee also. 270. Be that as it may the question which however arises in these
circumstances is as to how the Screening Committee ought to have
functioned or what procedure ought to have been followed by it. It will
be also required to be examined as to how the minutes of 36 th
Screening Committee meetings ought to have been recorded. 271. This issue in fact brings us to the next important aspect of the
matter i.e. the purpose and effect of guidelines governing allocation of
captive coal blocks as were issued by MOC. My subsequent
discussion will thus show as to what was the purpose of issuing the
said guidelines and whether the said guidelines were binding upon
MOC and Screening Committee or not. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 232 of 467
 G (iii) Whether the guidelines issued by MOC governing
allocation of captive coal blocks were binding and were
mandatorily to be followed by MOC officers and by the
Screening Committee. 272. In 1993 when the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 was
amended so as to provide for allocation of captive coal blocks to
companies in private sector also, who were engaged in specified end
uses, an inter-departmental/inter-governmental body called the
"Screening Committee" was constituted in MOC to screen all such
proposals as may be received in MOC seeking allocation of captive
coal blocks. Beside MOC which was the Nodal Ministry, various other
Administrative Ministries such as Ministry of Steel, Ministry of Power
or Department of Industrial Promotion and Policy, various State
Governments where coal blocks which were proposed to be allocated
were situated or the states where the proposed end use project was
to be situated were members of Screening Committee. Central Mine
Planning & Design Institute Limited, (CMPDIL), Coal India Ltd. (CIL)
and its other subsidiary companies were also part of the Screening
Committee. The purpose was to have views of all concern at one
single platform so as to not only expedite the coal block allocation
process but to also have a body which may screen the proposals in
an objective and transparent manner. Thus the various Screening
Committees started laying down its own procedures to screen the
proposals and to make its recommendations in an objective and
transparent manner. 273. Though initially no advertisement used to be issued by MOC

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 233 of 467
 for inviting applications for allocation of captive coal blocks but the
34th Screening Committee issued an advertisement in the year 2005
inviting applications for allocation of captive coal blocks. The past
practices and procedure as used to be followed by the earlier
Screening Committees were also compiled at one place and with
suitable additions/modifications, guidelines were issued to govern the
coal block allocation process. Similarly at the time of 35 th and 36th
Screening Committee also applications were invited by way of an
advertisement. After making suitable modifications in the earlier
guidelines issued and beside incorporating the recommendations of
7th Energy Co-ordination Committee headed by Prime Minister and as
were communicated to MOC vide I.D. note of PMO dated 25.07.2006
Ex. PW 1/A (Colly) (D-43), fresh guidelines governing allocation of
captive coal blocks were issued by MOC. Thus these guidelines
issued at the time of inviting applications in November 2006 were to
govern the allocation of captive coal blocks by 35 th and 36th Screening
Committees. In the cross-examination of PW-1 V.S. Rana he
admitted as correct a suggestion put to him by Ld. Defence Counsel
that applications received in pursuant to advertisement issued by
MOC in November 2006 were to be governed by the guidelines as
were issued alongwith the advertisement in 2006 only and that the
guidelines issued in 2003 were not applicable. Subsequently in
response to a Court question put to him under section 165 Indian
Evidence Act, he again reiterated the said fact. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 234 of 467 274. It has been however vehemently argued by Ld. Counsels for
the accused public servants that as the guidelines issued by MOC
were not issued under any Act, rules or regulations having any
statutory backing or force and were not even published in the Gazette
or authenticated in the manner required by law for giving the
guidelines force of law so the said guidelines which were only in the
nature of administrative guidelines/instructions issued by MOC did
not cast any legal duty. It was thus argued that since the said
guidelines did not have any binding force of law so any act of
omission or in contravention of such instructions/guidelines does not
become illegal per se unless the same also contravened some law,
making such act or omission illegal. [It was however also argued by
Ld. Defence Counsel as an alternative argument that actually no
violation of guidelines actually took place. I shall be however dealing
with the said issue separately at a later stage.] 275. In support of his aforesaid submissions that guidelines issued
by MOC were not binding Ld. Defence Counsel placed reliance on
the following cases: 276. Before I advert on to discuss the aforesaid issue, it would be
pertinent to mention that though the said guidelines were issued by
MOC purportedly to provide a mechanism to implement the
provisions of Mine and Minerals Act, 1957 and that of Coal Mines
Nationalisation Act, 1973 (herein-after referred to as CMN Act, 1973 )
as it stood amended in the year 1993 but in its order dated 25.08.14
Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that the procedure adopted by
MOC and by Screening Committee was not in accordance with the
provisions of aforesaid Acts. However Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
said order proceeded further to consider various acts undertaken by
MOC and the Screening Committee in the allocation of various
captive coal blocks assuming that Central Government has powers to
allot captive coal blocks under Mines and Minerals Act, 1957 and CMN Act, 1973 . Thus the exercise being undertaken by this Court in
the present proceedings is also primarily confined to examination of
various acts of omission and commission of accused MOC officers as
were undertaken by them in the coal block allocation process which
led to allocation of Moira Madhujore coal block in favour of M/s
VMPL, with the assumption that the Central Government was acting
under the two Acts believing bonafidely that it has power to so act.
Thus what is required to be seen in the present proceedings is
whether the rules/regulations or procedures as were devised by MOC
for allocating captive coal blocks were adhered to by the accused
MOC officers and by the Screening Committee and if not, then

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 236 of 467
 reasons thereof and the intention in not doing so. However it is
certainly true that before proceeding to examine the aforesaid
aspects it also needs to be seen as to whether the guidelines so
issued by MOC governing allocation of captive coal blocks were
binding in nature or not, for only then the issue relating to any
violation of the guidelines can be more appropriately examined. The
said exercise will only thereafter lead to examination of the issue as
to whether any culpability can be attributed to the accused MOC
officers for any violation of said guidelines or not. 277. As earlier also mentioned the very purpose of issuance of
guidelines by MOC so as to govern allocation of captive coal blocks
and their subsequent uploading on the website of MOC was to bring
them to the notice of public at large. A bare reading of said guidelines
[as have been earlier reproduced] shows that the same not only
controlled but also regulated the exercise of discretion by MOC and
the Screening Committee in allocation of captive coal blocks. The
purpose was also to inform the public at large as to how the allocation
of captive coal blocks shall be made by MOC. 278. In this regard it will be worthwhile to first refer to some
observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court in cases where Government
was dealing with private persons in matters relating to award of
contracts, grant of largesse etc. In the case Erusian Equipment and Chemicals Ltd. Vs.
State of West Bengal (1975) 1 SCC 70, it was observed by Hon'ble

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 237 of 467
 Supreme Court as under: (Emphasis supplied by me) 279. The aforesaid observations were again approved by Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case Ramana Dayaram Shetty Vs.
International Airport Authority of India 1979 (3) SCC 489 as under: (Emphasis supplied by me) 280. In Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy Vs. State of J&K, 1980 4
SCC 1, Hon'ble Supreme Court while again referring to Ramana
Dayaram Shetty case (Supra) further observed as under: (Emphasis supplied by me) 281. In Food Corpn. of India Vs. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed
Industries (1993) 1 SCC 71, Justice J.S. Verma speaking for the
Bench observed as under: (SCC p. 76, paras 7 and 8)

 "In contractual sphere as in all other State actions, the State
 and all its instrumentalities have to conform to Article 14 of
 the Constitution of which non-arbitrariness is a significant
 facet. There is no unfettered discretion in public law. A public
 authority possesses powers only to use them for public good.
 This imposes the duty to act fairly and to adopt a procedure
 which is `fairplay in action'. Due observance of this obligation
 as a part of good administration raises a reasonable or
 legitimate expectation in every citizen to be treated fairly in his
 interaction with the State and its instrumentalities, with this
 element forming a necessary component of the decision
 making process in all State actions. To satisfy this

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 243 of 467
 requirement of non-arbitrariness in a State action, it is,
 therefore, necessary to consider and give due weight to
 the reasonable or legitimate expectations of the persons likely
 to be affected by the decision or else that unfairness in the
 exercise of the power may amount to an abuse or excess of
 power apart from affecting the bona fides of the decision in a
 given case. The decision so made would be exposed to
 challenge on the ground of arbitrariness. Rule of law does not
 completely eliminate discretion in the exercise of power, as
 it is unrealistic, but provides for control of its exercise by judicial
 review. 12. The mere reasonable or legitimate expectation of a citizen,
 in such a situation, may not by itself be a distinct
 enforceable right, but failure to consider and give due weight to
 it may render the decision arbitrary, and this is how the
 requirement of due consideration of a legitimate expectation
 forms part of the principle of non-arbitrariness, a
 necessary concomitant of the rule of law. Every legitimate
 expectation is a relevant factor requiring due consideration in a
 fair decision making process. Whether the expectation of the
 claimant is reasonable or legitimate in the context is a question
 of fact in each case. Whenever the question arises, it is to be
 determined not according to the claimant's perception but in
 larger public interest wherein other more important
 considerations may outweigh what would otherwise have been
 the legitimate expectation of the claimant. A bona fide decision of the public authority reached in this
 manner would satisfy the requirement of non-arbitrariness and
 withstand judicial scrutiny. The doctrine of legitimate
 expectation gets assimilated in the rule of law and operates in
 our legal system in this manner and to this extent." (Emphasis supplied by me) 282. In Navjyoti Coop. Group Housing Society Vs. Union of
India AIR 1993 SC 155 Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: 283. In the case Sudhir Shantilal Mehta Vs. CBI (2009) 8
SCC 1, while dealing with certain directions issued by RBI to public
sector banks, Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: (Emphasis supplied by me) 284. In the case Rajiv Kumar Vs. State of U.P. (2017) 8 SCC
791, Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: (Emphasis supplied by me) 285. At this stage, it would be however pertinent to mention once
again that in the present proceedings this Court is not carrying out
any judicial review of the actions be that of MOC officers or that of the
Screening Committee. What is being examined is whether the actions
of accused public servants i.e. that of MOC officers involved in the
process of allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of
company M/s VMPL had any element of malafide intention i.e.
whether there was any culpability in the said actions or not. In the
case Sudhir Shantilal Mehta (Supra), Hon'ble Supreme Court while

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 246 of 467
 examining the actions of certain bank officers who acted in violation
of guidelines issued by RBI also dealt with the issue of criminal
liability of the officers and interalia observed as under in para 64: 286. It is in the light of aforesaid well settled proposition of law that
it needs to be seen as to whether the guidelines issued by MOC
governing allocation of captive coal blocks were binding upon the
MOC officers and also upon the Screening Committee or not. As
earlier also mentioned, the guidelines so issued by MOC and as were
also uploaded on the website of MOC for information of the public at
large were clearly issued to regulate the exercise of discretion by the
MOC officers and that of the Screening Committee in the matter of
allocation of captive coal blocks. The purpose was to rule out any
element of arbitrariness in the said exercise of discretion. The said
guidelines undisputedly provided the logical and reasoned steps as to
how the MOC officers and the Screening Committee shall undertake
the decision making process vide which allocation of captive coal
blocks in favour of private applicant companies will be made. Yet
another important purpose of issuance of guidelines was also to
inform the public at large as to how the exercise of allocation of
captive coal blocks shall be undertaken and that the discretion of
Ministry of Coal or that of Screening Committee was not unfettered. It
was thus represented to the public at large that MOC will undertake
the said exercise fairly without discrimination and by following a fair

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 247 of 467
 procedure. 287. At this stage, it would be now also worthwhile to refer to the
following case law as were relied upon by Ld. Counsels for the
accused public servants while arguing that the guidelines so issued
by MOC were not binding as they did not have the force of law. (1) G.J. Fernandez vs. State of Mysore [MANU/SC/0050/1967]

( 2) Chief Commercial Manager, South Central Railway, Secunderabad vs. G.
Ratnam [MANU/SC/7843/2007 ]

( 3) R. Sai Bharathi V. J. Jayalalitha and Ors. MANU/ SC/ 0956/ 2003

(4) Gulf Goans Hotels Company Ltd. Vs. Union of India [MANU/SC/0848/2014]

 A bare perusal of the aforesaid case law(s) however
shows that in all these matters the enforcement of the guidelines or
regulations issued by the Department were sought by a third person
claiming himself to be either a victim or a person affected by the
decision of the public servants concerned. It is in that context Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed that since the said guidelines did not have
the force of law so no right vest in a third party to seek enforcement
of said guidelines and regulations. However at the same time,
Hon'ble Supreme Court also observed that the department concerned
may however initiate departmental proceedings against its officers
responsible for following the said guidelines or to act in accordance
with the said guidelines, if there is any act of omission or neglect to
comply with the said guidelines. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 248 of 467 288. From the aforesaid observations, it is thus clear that in so far
as the officers of the department which issued those guidelines are
concerned they were clearly bound to follow the said guidelines. The
said officers can always be punished by the Government or
department concerned for violation of the said guidelines by them. It
is altogether a different matter that such a violation of the guidelines
may in a given case entails initiation of departmental enquiry only but
at the same time the violation of said guidelines in a given case may
also show existence of mensrea on the part of public servants
concerned and in which case penal action may also be initiated
against them. 289. Thus in the light of aforesaid circumstances, I may state that
in so far as the guidelines issued by MOC governing allocation of
captive coal blocks are concerned, the same though may not be
termed as law under Article 13 of the Constitution of India but were
clearly binding upon the accused MOC officers. It does not lie in the
mouth of accused MOC officers to say that we were not bound by the
said guidelines since they did not have the force of law. The said
guidelines clearly sought to control the exercise of discretion by
MOC and of the Screening Committee in disbursing the larges i.e.
allocation of nationalized natural resources (Coal) of the country by
way of allocation of captive coal blocks and it was represented by
MOC to the public at large as to how the applications are to be
submitted or how the same will be dealt with by MOC and by the
Screening Committee. It clearly casted a mandatory duty upon the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 249 of 467
 accused public servants to act in accordance with the said guidelines.
By no stretch of imagination, the accused MOC officers can claim that
even though the guidelines were issued by them intimating the public
at large as to how captive coal blocks shall be allocated but while
exercising the said discretion they were not bound to follow the said
guidelines. In fact the said guidelines in no way took away the
discretion either from the MOC officers or from the Screening
Committee but simply regulated the exercise of such discretion so
vested in them, lest their actions may venture into the arena of
unreasonableness, arbitrariness or in any sort of illegality. 290. The guidelines clearly mandated certain eligibility conditions
and certain requirements to be fulfilled by the applicant companies,
failing which, it was mentioned in the guidelines itself that the
applications will be rejected. It was also clarified in the guidelines
itself as to in what manner the interse priority of various competing
applicant companies who have applied for any given coal block shall
be arrived at. In fact mentioning of these very factors in the guidelines
were the prime reasons for various applicant companies to inflate
their various claims so as to show a better status/stage of
preparedness qua their proposed end use project. A legitimate
expectation thus arose in the mind of various applicant companies
that their applications will be considered objectively and in a
transparent manner in accordance with the guidelines so issued by
MOC. In these circumstances it can not be claimed by accused MOC
officers that they were not bound by the guidelines so issued by MOC

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 250 of 467
 governing allocation of captive coal blocks and as were also
uploaded on the website of MOC. 291. One may however argue that the doctrine of legitimate
expectation is a principle of Administrative Law having no application
in the present proceedings. However, it would be worthwhile to clarify
that in so far as the issue raised by Ld. Counsels for the accused
persons that the guidelines were not having any binding force of law
is concerned, the matter certainly fell exclusively in the domain of
Administrative Law and to that extent while examining the said issue
it is completely justified that the doctrine of legitimate expectation is
held to be applicable. 292. Thus having concluded that the guidelines so issued by MOC
were binding upon the MOC officers as well as upon the Screening
Committee, I shall now proceed further to examine as to whether
there was any violation of the guidelines in the processing of
applications in MOC i.e. whether the applications were checked for
their eligibility and completeness or not. It shall also be examined as
to whether accused MOC officers were aware of the process
undertaken in MOC regarding processing of applications before the
same were considered by the Screening Committee. If the answer to
the aforesaid question is in affirmative then it will be examined as to
whether the said violation entails any culpability on the part of
accused MOC officers or not. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 251 of 467
 G (iv) Whether in the processing of applications in MOC
there was any violation of guidelines governing allocation of
captive coal blocks i.e. whether the applications were
checked for their eligibility and completeness or not. 293. As earlier also mentioned the guidelines issued by MOC
clearly mandated under the title "Processing of application" that the
applications received in MOC in five copies after being checked for
their eligibility and completeness would be sent to the Administrative
Ministries and State Governments concerned for their evaluation and
recommendation. The guidelines also specified certain documents
which were required to be annexed by every applicant company
alongwith its applications. It was also stated that applications without
the said accompaniments would be treated as incomplete and shall
be rejected. Thus in the light of aforesaid nature of guidelines, it
becomes clear that before copies of the applications were to be sent
to administrative Ministries/State Governments, the same were
required to be checked in MOC as regard their completeness and
eligibility. As regard eligibility, the primary requirement for every
applicant was that it should be a company registered under Indian
Companies Act . The second requirement of being eligible was that
the company should be engaged either in generation of power or
production of iron or steel or in production of cement. After any
applicant company qualified this first stage of eligibility its application
was required to be checked for completeness. As earlier also
mentioned for an application to be complete in accordance with
guidelines all the documents as were specified in the guidelines

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 252 of 467
 ought to have been annexed with the application. 294. It is qua this aspect of checking that there has been
considerable dispute all through the trial. PW-1 V.S. Rana though
initially stated that the applications were checked for their
completeness but subsequently stated that only a cursory glance was
given to the applications. However, subsequently during the course of
his cross-examination he stated that only the availability of
processing fee i.e. demand draft of Rs. 10,000/- was checked. Similar
was the claim of DW-7 Prem Raj Kuar the then Section Officer, CA-I
Section, MOC who was examined in his defence by A-5 K.S. Kropha.
In his examination-in-chief he stated that at the time of receiving of
applications, the names of the companies, their address, the name of
coal blocks applied for, the state where the said coal blocks were
situated beside the availability of draft of Rs. 10,000/- with date of
issuance of draft were only checked. He also stated that the aforesaid
details were also recorded in a register and it was also checked as to
whether the applications have been submitted in five sets or not. He
also deposed that subsequently the applications were segregated
state-wise, end use-wise and administrative Ministry-wise. To a
specific leading question put to him in his examination-in-chief by Ld.
Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi for A-5 K.S. Kropha (as was permitted by
the Court) he specifically stated that CA-I Section had at no point of
time checked the completeness and eligibility of the applications so
received. Subsequently in his cross-examination as was conducted
by Ld. Counsel for A-4 H.C. Gupta, he again stated that it was not

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 253 of 467
 checked as to whether the applications so received were
accompanied with all the documents as were required to be annexed
in terms of the guidelines issued by MOC or not. He however stated
that in each of the applications the applicants had stated that all the
documents have been enclosed by them with their applications. 295. In this regard reference was however made by Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh.
Sanjay Kumar to various communications sent by MOC to different
State Governments/ Administrative Ministries and to CMPDIL
enclosing therewith copies of various applications concerning them. It
was pointed out that in all such communications it was clearly
mentioned that the applications alongwith documents (wherever
submitted by applicant) may be examined and comments thereon
may be furnished to the Ministry by 31.03.2007. [Some such
communications which were identically worded and referred to by Ld.
Sr. P.P. are Ex. PW 1/G-1; Ex. PW 1/G-2; Ex. PW 1/G-3; Ex. PW
1/G-4 and Ex. PW 1/G-5 [All communications are available in file Ex.
P-13 (Colly) (D-17) except that Ex. PW 1/G-5 is part of file Ex. P-14
(Colly) (D-18)] and vide these communications, copy of applications
were sent to State Government of West Bengal, CMPDIL, State
Government of Bihar, DIPP and Ministry of Steel respectively.]

 For a ready reference one such letter vide which copy of
various applications were sent to State Government of West Bengal
Ex. PW 1/G-1 [At page 183 in file Ex. P-13 (Colly) (D-17)] has been
reproduced here under: (V.S. Rana)
 o/c Under Secretary to the Govt. of India. Encl: As above - 4 Boxes." (Emphasis supplied by me) 296. It has been thus argued by Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh. Sanjay Kumar that
had the applications been checked for their completeness in MOC
before copies thereof were sent to State Governments and

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 255 of 467
 Administrative Ministries then it would not have been written by PW-1
V.S. Rana in his communication to various State Governments and to
Administrative Ministries that the applications alongwith documents
mentioned above wherever submitted by applicant company may be
examined. 297. Ld. Sr. P.P. also pointed out that in one other case pertaining
to 36th Screening Committee itself titled CBI Vs. M/s KSSPL & Ors.
which has since been decided by this Court vide judgment dated
19.05.2017, these very accused MOC officers had themselves stated
in their deposition u/s 315 Cr.PC that the applications were not
checked for their eligibility and completeness in MOC. Though they
had also claimed that at the relevant time, it was never brought to
their notice that the applications have not been checked for their
eligibility and completeness in terms of the guidelines issued by
MOC. 298. On the other hand Ld. defence Counsels for accused MOC
officers beside relying upon the deposition of PW-1 V.S. Rana also
relied upon the deposition of PW-12 N.R. Dash stating that when the
comments of Ministry of Steel were sent to MOC qua various
applicant companies then in the said communication dated 06.12.07
itself it was stated that 696 complete applications were received from
MOC. It was thus submitted that from the over all facts and
circumstances of the case and the deposition of the witnesses it is
thus clear that the applications were indeed checked for their
completeness and eligibility and mistake, if any in checking of the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 256 of 467
 applications was primarily on account of mistake of CA-I section
officials only. 299. Ld. Defence Counsels also referred to certain statements u/s
161 Cr.PC of MOC officials as were recorded by CBI during the
course of investigation of other coal block allocation matters that at
the time of 34th Screening Committee meeting the applications so
received in MOC were checked for their completeness in MOC itself
before copies thereof were sent to various stakeholders. It was thus
submitted that as the witnesses have stated that the process followed
in MOC at the time of 35th and 36th Screening Committee was also
stated to be as per the past practice so it must be taken that the
applications were indeed checked for their completeness in MOC
itself before copies thereof were sent to various stakeholders. My Discussion 300. Certainly PW-1 V.S. Rana initially stated in his deposition that
the applications were checked for their eligibility and completeness
but at a later stage of his deposition itself, he qualified the said
statement by stating that only the availability of demand draft of Rs.
10,000/- towards processing fee was checked. It is however also true
that the words mentioned in the communications such as Ex. PW-
1/G-1, Ex. PW-1/G-2, Ex. PW-1/G-3, Ex. PW-1/G-4 and Ex. PW
1/G-5 vide which copies of applications were sent to various
stakeholders, it was stated that the documents, wherever submitted
by the applicant company may be checked, does goes to suggest

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 257 of 467
 that the applications have not yet been checked for their eligibility and
completeness. On the other hand PW-12 N.R. Dash however did
state in his communication dated 06.12.07 that 696 complete
applications were received from MOC and the same were examined
and comments of Ministry of Steel were being accordingly provided to
MOC. At the same time DW-7 Prem Raj Kuar however stated that the
applications were not checked in MOC for their eligibility and
completeness. 301. Thus in view of the aforesaid nature of deposition of various
prosecution witnesses coupled with that of DW-7 Prem Raj Kuar,
examined on behalf of A-5 K.S. Kropha himself, the only course of
action left before this Court is to test the veracity of the claims so
made by the various witnesses in the light of documentary evidence
available on record. 302. As already discussed and demonstrated while discussing the
role of private parties, the applicant company M/s VMPL had not
annexed the audited annual accounts/reports of M/s Impex Group of
Companies alongwith its application even though the financial
strength of Impex Group was mentioned in the application. At the
same time it has also been discussed and concluded that alongwith
the application no project report in respect of proposed end use plant
was annexed by the company M/s VMPL as was required to be
annexed in terms of the guidelines issued by MOC. Thus it has been
clearly established and concluded in the earlier part of the judgment
that the application of A-1 M/s VMPL was incomplete in terms of the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 258 of 467
 guidelines issued by MOC. Thus as per the guidelines, the
application of A-1 M/s VMPL was per-se liable to be rejected in MOC
itself being incomplete. However for reasons best known to MOC
officers, the application of M/s VMPL was not rejected, if at all any
checking of the applications for their completeness was carried out
before copies thereof were sent to various stakeholders. It is in these
circumstances, the deposition of PW-1 V.S. Rana or of PW-12 N.R.
Dash or that of DW-7 Prem Raj Kuar needs to be examined. 303. The foremost question which however arises for
consideration is as to whose duty was it to check the applications for
their eligibility and completeness. Once again Ld. Counsels for the
accused public servants have relied upon the deposition of PW-1 V.S.
Rana who stated in his deposition that it was the responsibility of CA-I
Section to check the applications for their eligibility and
completeness. They have also claimed that CA-I Section officials
never brought to their knowledge that the applications have not been
checked for their eligibility or completeness. 304. Certainly the accused persons are right that it was the
responsibility of CA-I Section to check the applications for their
eligibility and completeness but this aspect needs to be viewed from
yet another angle also i.e. in the light of provisons of Manual of Office
Procedure. 305. As earlier also mentioned all through the entire trial the
accused public servants have heavily relied upon the provisions of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 259 of 467
 Manual of Office Procedure stating that the same were required to be
mandatorily followed. Though I have also already discussed and
demonstrated at length in the earlier part of the present judgment that
it would have been an ideal situation if the working of MOC in dealing
with the applications post their receipt was in accordance with
provisions of Manual of Office Procedure but unfortunately it was not
so. I have also discussed in detail that PW-1 V.S. Rana was right in
saying that in routine day to day functioning, the procedure was not
mandatorily followed. I have also demonstrated that even accused
MOC officers themselves had not followed the provisions of Manual
of Office Procedure not only in their routine day to day functioning but
even with regard to important matters such as calling of Screening
Committee meeting. The present circumstance regarding checking of
applications for their completeness and eligibility is yet another
instance where the provisions of Manual of Office Procedure were
once again not followed by senior MOC officers. 306. Admittedly the guidelines issued by MOC under the title
"Where to apply", clearly specified that the applications should be
addressed to Sh. Sanjeev Mittal, Director, CA-I. Thus if the claim of
Ld. Counsels for accused MOC officers is presumed to be true that
receipt of applications itself and their subsequent processing ought to
have been dealt with under the Manual of Office Procedure then
since the applications were specifically addressed in the name of
Director, CA-I so there ought to be specific orders by him to CA-I
Section directing them to carry out processing of the applications in

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 260 of 467
 accordance with the guidelines. However once again the files of MOC
are completely silent in this regard. What has been argued on behalf
of accused public servants and as has been admitted by PW-1 V.S.
Rana also that since CA-I Section was dealing with coal block
allocation matters so the applications were to be processed by them
only. However the point being emphasized over here is that neither
the guidelines specified as to who shall carry out checking of
applications once they are received in MOC nor any order has been
subsequently passed in the files of MOC that it shall be the
responsibility of CA-I Section, MOC. Thus it is yet another instance
where the provisions of Manual of Office Procedure have not been
complied with by senior MOC officers themselves. 307. The sum and substance of the aforesaid discussion is that
even if it is presumed for the sake of arguments that in terms of the
guidelines applications were checked for their eligibility and
completeness in MOC before copies thereof were sent to various
stakeholders then also the said exercise was not properly carried out.
The application of A-1 M/s VMPL was clearly incomplete and ought to
have been rejected at the initial stage itself in accordance with the
guidelines issued and approved by MOC. These circumstances thus
once again show as to how casual and perfunctory was the working
of MOC at all levels in the coal block allocation process. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 261 of 467
 G (v) Whether senior MOC officers were responsible for
ensuring checking of applications for their eligibility and
completeness in terms of the guidelines and also whether
accused MOC officers were aware of the process
undertaken in MOC in processing of applications before
they were considered by the Screening Committee. 308. Irrespective of the carelessness and negligence, if any,
shown by the officials of CA-I Section in carrying out the checking of
applications for their eligibility and completeness, if at all any such
exercise was undertaken (Though CA-I Section officials have denied
having carried out any such exercise at all) then also can it be
claimed by senior MOC officers that they were in no way responsible
for ensuring compliance with the guidelines issued by them. Though
PW-1 V.S. Rana has claimed that the senior officers of MOC were
verbally informed by them that no checking of applications has been
carried out qua their eligibility and completeness but the accused
MOC officers have categorically denied having received any such
oral information/intimation from PW-1 V.S. Rana. The sole ground on
which they have rested their aforesaid argument is once again the
provisions of Manual of Office Procedure which states that oral
communication, if any made should be duly reduced into writing and
should be got approved from the concerned officers. 309. However I have already discussed and demonstrated at
length that provisions of Manual of Office Procedure were not
followed in routine day to day functioning in MOC. Moreover my
subsequent discussion will also show that on 11.05.2007 when a

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 262 of 467
 meeting of Screening Committee was called in the office chamber of
Secretary, Coal then at least on that day, if not before the senior MOC
officers acquired knowledge as to what all steps have been taken in
MOC till then qua processing of applications. A bare perusal of the
minutes of said meeting clearly proves the said fact beyond any
reasonable doubt. 310. As earlier also discussed, a meeting of the Screening
Committee though comprising of representatives of Administrative
Ministries and that of CIL/CMPDIL officers only took place in the
office chamber of Secretary Coal i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta on 11.05.2007.
[The representatives of State Governments were admittedly not
invited to the said meeting.] However before I advert on to discuss
the contents of the minutes of said meeting, it will be worthwhile to
reproduce the said minutes alognwith attendance sheet of the officers
who attended the said meeting. The minutes Ex. PW 1/N-3 (Colly) (D-18) of Screening
Committee meeting held on 11.05.2007, read as under:- (Emphasis supplied by me) 311. However in the same file at page number 105-106, the draft
minutes Ex. PW1/N-2 of the said meeting are also available in which

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 265 of 467
 certain corrections were admittedly made in his own hand by A-5 K.S.
Kropha. 312. A bare perusal of the final approved minutes Ex. PW-1/N-3
(colly) (D-18) of the meeting held on 11.05.2007 shows that Secretary
Coal, i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta while opening the discussion in the meeting
not only gave brief account of the process followed and the guidelines
notified for allocation of captive coal blocks in this round, but also
stated about details of applications received, and action taken so far
on the applications. He also pointed out that as against 740
applications received during the last round of allocation of captive
blocks the number of applications received for 38 blocks, this time
was 1422 i.e. double the number of applications received on the last
occasion. The minutes however further talks of the discussion held
amongst the members about the procedure or modalities to be
adopted so as to determine the most eligible applicant. The issue of
laying down specific benchmark criteria in conformity with the broad
parameters indicated in the guidelines was also discussed. The need
to have an objective and critical evaluation of the competing
applicants was also stressed upon. The meeting however finally
concluded with the decision that the respective Administrative
Ministries would examine and suggest some criteria based on
specific parameters to determine the inter-se priority of various
applicant companies. At the end of the minutes it is also mentioned
that in the meantime, CMPDIL will carry out an exercise to identify the
applicant companies that have minimum net-worth of 20% of the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 266 of 467
 investment required for projected capacities of end use plants. It is
also clear from the minutes that the sole thrust of the entire
discussion in the meeting was to put in place a transparent and
objective mechanism qua allocation of captive coal blocks. In fact
during the course of present trial also it has been the consistent stand
of accused MOC officers that all through the entire process in MOC
they have been insisting for putting in place a transparent and
objective mechanism. However as my subsequent discussion will
show that in fact no heed was paid either to transparency or to
objectivity in the entire coal block allocation process by the accused
MOC officers and especially while choosing to recommend M/s VMPL
for allocation of a captive coal block. 313. However the purpose of reproducing and referring to the
minutes of meeting held on 11.05.2007 Ex. PW 1/N-3 (colly) at this
stage is only to show the falsity in the claim made by the accused
MOC officers that at no point of time the facts regarding total number
of applications received in MOC or the manner of their processing or
the details of the applications or the action taken so far on the
applications were brought to their knowledge by CA-I, Section
officers/officials. In fact in the note sheet pages of the files of MOC I
have been unable to find any noting where the total number of
applications so received or the manner in which they were processed
or any other details of the applications were specifically mentioned. It
is only the minutes Ex. PW 1/N-3 (Colly) of the meeting held on
11.05.2007 which for the first time speaks about it. The minutes also

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 267 of 467
 says that Secretary Coal also gave a brief account of details of
applications received. The onus thus remained on accused MOC
officers only to show as to how and in what manner the information
regarding total number of applications received or details thereof
came to their knowledge and which were shared by them with the
other members of the Screening Committee present in the said
meeting. Clearly as per the attendance sheet of the officers who
attended the said meeting, all the three accused public servants i.e.
A-4 H.C. Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria were present
from MOC beside Sh. P.R. Mandal, Advisor (P) in the said meeting.
The role of Sh. P.R. Mandal, Advisor (P) in the entire coal block
allocation process has been however neither asserted to by the
prosecution nor the accused persons have ascribed any role or any
knowledge of the process to him. Moreover the presence of PW-1
V.S. Rana or any other officer of CA-I Section in the meeting can not
be presumed as the attendance sheet is silent in this regard. Had it
been so the attendance of such other officers of MOC would have
been there in the attendance sheet in the same manner in which it
was there in the attendance sheets of various meetings of 36th
Screening Committee even though A-6 K.C. Samria and PW-1 V.S.
Rana were admittedly not members thereof. Even otherwise, if the
presence of said officers/officials of CA-I, Section is presumed in the
said meeting then also the only irresistible conclusion which arises
from the overall facts and circumstances is that the senior officers of
MOC were informed at least on the day of meeting held on
11.05.2007, if not before by the officers/officials of CA-I, Section

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 268 of 467
 about the total number of applications received and action taken so
far on the applications or other details of the applications. Thus the
three accused MOC officers can not claim that they were not aware
of the details of the applications received or total number of
applications received or the action taken on the applications so far, at
least as on 11.05.2007 if not on any date prior thereto. 314. On the other hand the three accused MOC officers have
rather claimed that the meeting held on 11.05.2007 went as per the
agenda of the meeting, copy of which has been found in the files of
Ministry of Steel. In the cross-examination of PW-1 V.S. Rana, the
copy of one such agenda note Ex. PW 1/DX-7 was put to him by Ld.
Counsel for accused MOC officers. However as already mentioned
and discussed at length that no such agenda note was found in the
files of MOC and even the office memorandum dated 07.05.2007 Ex.
PW 1/N-1 (D-18) whereby various members of Screening Committee
were invited to attend the meeting of Screening Committee on
11.05.2007, was also completely silent that any such agenda note is
either being enclosed with the notice or will be subsequently sent. In
fact there is no mention at all of any agenda note in the said office
memorandum. Similarly it was also found that even in the Ministry of
Steel files there was no noting or communication from MOC which
could show that any agenda note has been received from MOC with
respect to meeting held on 11.05.2007. 315. Thus, in the absence of written record regarding preparation
of any such agenda note for the meeting held on 11.05.2007 and its

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 269 of 467
 non-availability in the files of MOC and the office memorandum dated
07.05.07 vide which members were invited for the meeting being
completely silent about any such agenda note being enclosed or to
be sent separately so no presumption can be raised as to the
preparation or availability of any such agenda note. In fact no
question at all was asked from PW-12 N.R. Dash in his cross-
examination on behalf of accused MOC officers regarding the
circumstances in which such an agenda note came to be available in
the files of Ministry of Steel. 316. In this regard, I may however also mention that even if it is
presumed that such an agenda note was prepared in MOC for the
Screening Committee meeting to be held on 11.05.2007 then there is
also no noting in the files of MOC which could show as to who
initiated the process of preparation of said agenda note. PW-1 V.S.
Rana has claimed complete ignorance in this regard when he was
extensively cross-examined by Ld. Defence Counsel regarding the
preparation of any such agenda note. It is also not evident from the
files of MOC as to on whose instructions the said agenda note was
prepared or who approved the final agenda note in MOC. As already
mentioned the meeting dated 11.05.2007 of the Screening
Committee was not proposed by CA-I Section and the note dated
07.05.07 in this regard was put up by CA-I Section on the telephonic
instructions of A-6 K.C. Samria, Director, CA-I only. Thus it can not be
presumed by any stretch of imagination that CA-I Section on its own
could have prepared any such agenda note. Moreover even if such

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 270 of 467
 an agenda note is presumed to have been prepared by CA-I Section
officials then also the purpose of calling the said meeting must have
been told to them by the accused MOC officers only. The senior
officers of MOC must have told officials of CA-I Section as to what all
matters are to be incorporated in the agenda note. Thus these
circumstances further show that accused MOC officers did undertake
deliberations with CA-I Section officials regarding the process
undertaken till then or is to be undertaken further with respect to the
applications so received in MOC. This aspect also shows that even
though there is no written note in the files of MOC as to how many
applications in all were received but the said fact was verbally
brought to the knowledge of accused MOC officers by CA-I Section
officials. PW-1 V.S. Rana, Under Secretary, CA-1 Section has
however categorically stated in his cross-examination that course of
action to be undertaken pursuant to receipt of applications was
decided in a meeting held in the office of Joint Secretary, Coal. He
stated that all further actions were thus taken in accordance with the
directions given in the said meeting. Though Ld. Defence counsels
denied that any such meeting ever took place primarily on the ground
that neither any noting nor any minutes of any such meeting exists on
record but PW-1 V.S. Rana reiterated his earlier stand that no record
is usually kept or prepared of such internal meetings. I have also no
reason to doubt the aforesaid claim of PW-1 V.S. Rana especially in
view of the nature of functioning of MOC as has been discussed and
demonstrated at length in the earlier part of the judgment. Not only it
is difficult to presume that the entire matter relating to receiving of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 271 of 467
 applications and their subsequent processing in MOC was being
dealt exclusively at the level of CA-I Section or by PW-1 V.S Rana,
Under Secretary, CA-I Section only or that neither Secretary, Coal,
nor Joint Secretary, Coal or even Director CA-I in whose name the
applications were received were not aware of the steps being taken in
MOC in this regard. On the other hand if that was the situation than it
is all the more strange that none of the three senior MOC officers
took care to even ascertain as to what all steps are being taken by
CA-I Section in this regard. 317. My aforesaid conclusion further gets fortified from the noting
dated 20/12/06 at note sheet page 6 in MOC file Ex. P-13 (Colly) (D- 17) which read as under: 320. Thus from the aforesaid circumstances it is clear that
discussion did take place in MOC involving senior officers so as to
decide the course of action qua the applications being received in
MOC or their subsequent processing. 321. It has been however argued that A-6 K.C. Samria was
assigned the charge of CA-I Section in March 2007 only and the
applications were already sent to various stakeholders in the month

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 274 of 467
 of February 2007 itself i.e. during the tenure of the then Director CA-
1, Sh. Sanjeev Mittal and thus A-6 K.C. Samria, can not be held liable
for the same. I find myself in complete agreement with the said
submission and certainly no liability is being fixed upon A-6 K.C.
Samria for the period during which he was not holding the charge of
CA-I Section. 322. Be that as it may, I now proceed further with the assumption
that it was the responsibility of CA-I Section to carry out the checking
of applications qua their eligibility and completeness. A question
however needs to be kept in mind that as the applications were
received in the name of Director, CA-I, so even though he may not be
expected to carry out checking of applications himself qua their
eligibility and completeness but can he disown his responsibility of
even ensuring compliance with the guidelines by CA-I Section. In my
considered opinion, the answer to the same is a big "NO". Moreover we have a situation where A-6 K.C. Samria
despite being Deputy Secretary/Director CA-I Section (at least from
the month of March 2007 onwards) has completely washed off his
hands from the entire process by simply stating that as the
applications were already dispatched to various stakeholders in
February 2007 itself and he took over the charge of CA-I Section in
March 2007 so he was not in any manner responsible for the
checking of applications in MOC for their eligibility and completeness. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 275 of 467 323. This certainly can not be the situation. In fact the files of MOC
shows that applications to Ministry of Power were subsequently sent
i.e. during the period when A-6 K.C. Samria was holding the charge
of CA-I Section. The record also shows that A-6 K.C. Samria was
also regularly involved even otherwise with CA-I Section in making
requests to the office of Coal Controller or to CIL to depute certain
officials with respect to coal block allocation process. In the cross-
examination of PW-1 V.S. Rana as was carried out on behalf of A-4
H.C. Gupta some such letters were put to him by Ld. Defence
Counsel. A letter dated 02.08.2007 Ex. PW 1/DX-12 was thus found
to have been issued under the signatures of A-6 K.C. Samria to CIL
requesting for deputing two financial experts for scrutinizing financial
details of applicant companies. Yet another letter dated 02.08.2007
Ex. PW 1/DX-13 was sent to Coal Controller by A-6 K.C. Samria
under his own signatures requesting for making available services of
four officials for scrutinizing applications. PW-1 V.S. Rana in his
cross-examination further stated that yet one other letter dated
31.05.2007 Ex. PW 1/DX-9 was though sent by him under his own
signatures to the Coal Controller requesting to depute three officials
with respect to Screening Committee meeting proposed to be held in
the third week of June 2007 but pointed out that the said letter was
sent by him pursuant to the telephonic discussions which A-6 K.C.
Samria had with the office of Coal Controller and the said discussion
was duly referred to by him in his said communication itself. 324. PW-1 V. S. Rana also deposed that when in the month of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 276 of 467
 January/February 2007 certain officials of the office of Coal Controller
had come to MOC to assist in the process then before their initial stay
of 10 days was about to expire, A-5 K.S. Kropha, Joint Secretary,
Coal had visited them at Scope Minar, Laxmi Nagar where they were
carrying out segregation work i.e. segregating the applications state-
wise, end-use-wise, Administrative Ministry-wise etc and he told them
to extend their stay in Delhi as the work assigned to them was not yet
completed. In fact PW-7 Manas Kumar De, Assistant of the office of
Coal Controller, Kolkata who was amongst the four officials carrying
out the segregation work also deposed so and thereby corroborated
the deposition of PW-1 V.S. Rana in this regard. In fact PW-7 Manas
Kumar De also referred to an application dated 08.02.2007 Ex. PW
7/A [available at page 113 in file Ex. P-14 (Colly) (D-18)] singed by
him and his three colleagues making request for grant of honorarium
for the strenuous work carried out by them. In the said application
also it was stated by them that they had to return to Calcutta on
01.02.2007, but as the work had not been completed, so Sh. K.S.
Kropha, Joint Secretary, MOC directed them to stay until the work is
finished. 325. The aforesaid facts and various communications of the
contemporary period referred to above clearly indicate that both A-5
K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria were regularly involved in the
processing of applications in MOC alongwith CA-I Section officials. As
mentioned A-6 K.C. Samria had himself written a letter dated
02.08.2007 Ex. PW 1/DX-13 to Coal Controller seeking services of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 277 of 467
 four officials for scrutinizing applications for coal blocks earmarked for
allocation through the Screening Committee. Thus if A-6 K.C. Samria
claims he was not aware of the process undertaken by CA-I Section
as regard processing of applications than what nature of scrutiny of
applications was proposed to be got carried out from the officials of
the office of Coal Controller. Admittedly one set of all applications was
still available in MOC even though other four sets were already
dispatched to various stakeholders. Thus as A-6 K.C. Samria has not
put-forth any explanation with respect to the said letter(s) even for the
purposes of pre-ponderance of probability so there is no reason as to
why this Court should ascribe any other meaning to the words
"Scrutiny of applications" except that the applications were to be
scrutinized in terms of the guidelines only. Moreover, if it is argued
that the guidelines did not state anything regarding scrutiny of
applications and that it only speaks of checking of applications or that
the words "scrutiny" and "checking" have different meanings with
respect to applications received in MOC than again it was for A-6
K.C. Samria only to explain as to what was the meaning of the word
"Scrutiny" as was mentioned by him in his communication Ex. PW
1/DX-13. Thus in the absence of no explanation coming forth in this
regard, this Court has no reason to assign any other meaning to the
use of said word other than what has been stated above. 326. Similarly the communication dated 08.02.2007 Ex. PW 7/A
written by the officials of the office of Coal Controller also clearly
shows that A-5 K.S. Kropha was indeed aware of the work being

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 278 of 467
 carried out by the said officials. There is no reason to doubt the
deposition of either PW-7 Manas Kumar De or that of PW-1 V.S.
Rana that A-5 K.S. Kropha had met the said officials during their stay
in Delhi. Even though in the cross-examination of PW-7 Manas
Kumar De, it was suggested to him by Ld. Counsel for A-5 K.S.
Kropha that he never met them during their stay in Delhi but the
witness stated the said suggestion to be wrong. However the
correctness or genuineness of communication dated 08.02.2007 Ex.
PW 7/A written by the said witness alongwith his three other
colleagues was neither disputed nor it was even suggested to be a
false document. In these circumstances, I have thus no reason to
doubt the deposition of PW-7 Manas Kumar De or that of PW-1 V.S.
Rana in this regard. PW-7 Manas Kumar De also stated that no one
ever asked them to scrutinize the applications for checking their
eligibility and completeness. 327. In the aforesaid circumstances it thus can not be even
presumed for the sake of arguments that A-5 K.S. Kropha despite
having met the said officials and asking them to complete the work
assigned to them before leaving Delhi was not aware as to what
nature of work they were carrying out. It is also thus a natural
corollary that A-5 K.S. Kropha was also aware of the process
undertaken by CA-I Section towards processing of applications
before they were sent to various stakeholders. I have also already
observed that there is no reason to doubt the claim of PW-1 V.S.
Rana that course of action to be adopted qua the applications

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 279 of 467
 received in MOC was decided in a meeting held in the office chamber
of A-5 K.S. Kropha, Joint Secretary (Coal). The other communication
referred earlier also corroborated the factum of discussion having
taken place in the office chamber of A-5 K.S. Kropha in this regard.
The knowledge on the part of A-6 K.C. Samria about the process
undertaken by CA-I Section has also been well established. 328. Moreover the whole intention of providing for checking of
applications for their eligibility and completeness in the guidelines
was only to ensure that undeserving applicant companies should be
weeded out at the initial stage itself. Moreover if for any reason, the
said exercise could not be undertaken before the various sets of
applications were sent to various stakeholders then also there was no
bar that the applications could not be checked subsequently for their
eligibility and completeness. As shall be discussed at a later stage
also the Screening Committee in order to achieve the objective of
ensuring transparency and objectivity in the coal block allocation
process also introduced the concept of presentations to be made by
the applicant companies before the Screening Committee even
though the guidelines were silent as regard the concept of any such
representation to be made before the Screening Committee. Thus as
is evident from the overall facts and circumstances of the case that A-
6 K.C. Samria was well aware of the process undertaken in MOC qua
the applications received so the said exercise of checking of
applications could have been very well undertaken even at a
subsequent stage, since one copy of all applications was still

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 280 of 467
 available with MOC. 329. At this stage, I may also mention that in view of the aforesaid
extensive discussion of the overall facts and circumstances of the
case nothing much hinges on the words "696 complete applications
were received by this Ministry" as were mentioned by PW-12 N.R.
Dash in the office memorandum of Ministry of Steel dated 06.12.2007
Ex. PW 1/H-5 (Colly) (D-13). As the application of A-1 M/s VMPL was
clearly incomplete so there was no reason as to how the said
application could have been found to be complete by Ministry of
Steel. In fact at a later stage of the present judgment, I shall be also
discussing that even the TEFR available with Ministry of Steel and on
the basis of which it had sent its recommendations/views to Ministry
of Coal vide office memorandum dated 06.12.07 Ex. PW 1/H-5 (Colly)
did not actually pertain to the same end use project to which the
application in question pertained to. Moreover in the examination of
PW-12 N.R. Dash, no question was asked in this regard by either the
prosecution or the defence and thus when the application of A-1 M/s
VMPL has been found to be incomplete, so no purpose will be served
by assigning any explanation or reason to the use of said words by
him in the office memorandum Ex. PW 1/H-5 (Colly). The said fact is
actually not in conformity with the actual status of the application of A-
1 M/s VMPL and thus is a wrong statement of fact and cannot be
given much credence. In fact my subsequent discussion would also
show that even the working in Ministry of Steel with respect to coal
block allocation process was also not completely above board. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 281 of 467 330. However in the absence of there being a proper investigation
it will be a matter of pure inferences only as to whether the working of
these Ministries involved in allocation of captive coal blocks was so
adhoc and arbitrary in almost all matters or it was only qua coal block
allocation matters only as influential and rich/resourceful persons
were involved. I however do not wish to enter into the said realm of
imagination as there is no evidence available on record to support the
aforesaid inference. 331. From my aforesaid discussion, it is thus clear that the
accused MOC officers not only had all the knowledge of the process
being undertaken in MOC by the time 36 th Screening Committee
meetings were held but they deliberately or for reasons best known to
them chose to either ignore such violation of guidelines or
deliberately kept silence. 332. At this stage, I may also mention that none of the aforesaid
conclusions are based on any inference or conjectures or surmises
but are the only natural corollary emerging from the records of the
case when examined in the light of arguments put-forth by Ld.
defence counsels. The aforesaid circumstances also clearly
demonstrate that provisions of Manual of Office Procedure were not
followed even in important matters of MOC much less in routine day
to day functioning. It thus does not lie in the mouth of accused MOC
officers to claim that the entire working of MOC at least with respect
to coal block allocation matters took place in accordance with the
provisions of Manual of Office Procedure or that the oral deposition of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 282 of 467
 PW-1 V.S. Rana or that of DW-7 Prem Raj Kuar qua which no written
record exists, be not considered at all. On the other hand, the
accused MOC officers are themselves repeatedly calling upon this
Court to believe their oral claims to be true and correct qua different
aspects even though they are not supported by any written record of
the relevant time which in fact ought to be there if provisions of
Manual of Office Procedure were mandatorily followed. Certainly the
accused MOC officers cannot blow both hot and cold. 333. In fact as has been earlier demonstrated by this Court and as
will be further discussed in the subsequent part of the judgment also,
the entire working of MOC has been perfunctory and the rules have
been observed more in breach. G (vi) Whether there was any violation of guidelines in the
Screening Committee meeting. 334. The minutes of the meeting held on 11.05.2007 also refers to
the requirement of arriving at the interse priority amongst the
competing applicant companies for any given coal block but strangely
enough these guidelines were also not followed when M/s VMPL was
subsequently recommended for allocation of a captive coal block.
The minutes of meeting held on 11.05.2007 or that of subsequent
meetings of Screening Committee or the files of MOC does not show
that accused MOC officers despite being aware of the need for
having such a transparency and objectivity in the coal block allocation
process put in place such a mechanism or took any steps which
could facilitate the Screening Committee in arriving at such a decision

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 283 of 467
 objectively and with complete transparency. The accused MOC
officers being officers of nodal Ministry can not say that it was for the
Screening Committee to decide the mechanism or the procedure to
be followed, since being the Chairman and Member Convener of the
Screening Committee respectively, it was the bounden duty of A-4
H.C. Gupta and A-5 K.S. Kropha to ensure due compliance with the
guidelines earlier approved and issued by them for governing
allocation of captive coal blocks. It is not the case of anyone that
while framing any such guidelines the MOC undertook some
consultative process either with the State Governments or with the
Administrative Ministries. It may be true that on every occasion
whenever the guidelines were framed and approved in MOC then
they might have been guided by the procedure adopted by the earlier
Screening Committees but the fact remains that on none of the
occasions before finalizing the guidelines, the Administrative
Ministries or State Governments were ever consulted in any manner. 335. In these circumstances, if once again the composition and
purpose of constituting Screening Committee is referred to, then it is
clear that while allocation of captive coal blocks in the country was
the subject matter of MOC but since it impacted the work of other
Ministries and State Governments so in order to expedite the process
and to obtain the views of all concern at one place, the Screening
Committee was constituted by MOC, Government of India. 336. Thus as is evident from the deposition of PW-12 N.R. Dash,
PW-14 Shashi Ranjan Kumar, DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe and DW-6

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 284 of 467
 Shivraj Singh, they had simply put-forward the views,
comments/recommendations of their respective organisations and
which recommendations were in fact already communicated to MOC
before the Screening Committee meeting took place. Thus even if it is
presumed for the sake of arguments that after putting before the
Screening Committee their views/comments, the various members of
Screening Committee did participate in the discussion so that the final
decision of the Screening Committee may be arrived at but still the
responsibility to ensure due compliance with the guidelines issued by
MOC rests solely with A-4 H.C. Gupta, who not only was Secretary,
Coal but was also Chairman, Screening Committee and with A-5 K.S.
Kropha who was Joint Secretary Coal, and was also the Member
Convener, Screening Committee. 337. Though both the aforesaid officers have now claimed that all
the guidelines including interse priority guidelines were duly complied
with before the final recommendations of the Screening Committee
were arrived at but I shall be demonstrating at a slightly later stage of
the present judgment that no heed at all was paid to any of the
guidelines much less the guidelines specifying the procedure for
arriving at the interse priority amongst the competing applicant
companies for any given coal block. 338. The minutes Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) of 36 th Screening Committee
are not only completely silent in this regard but are so cryptic that
nothing is ascertainable as to what procedure was followed to
ascertain the interse priority amongst the competing applicants for

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 285 of 467
 any given coal block as to on what basis any given applicant
company was selected or other companies were not selected. This is
thus yet another aspect qua which accused persons are calling upon
this Court to believe their oral submissions even in the absence of
any written record and more importantly when written record ought to
have been prepared by them showing the basis of their decision or
the procedure followed by them while dealing with such an important
nationalised natural resource having immense monetary value and
importance for the industrial development of the country. The accused
MOC officers can not say that they were not supposed to record the
procedure or reasons as to why from out of the various applicant
companies some companies only have been selected. The absence
of reasons in this regard and especially in view of the overall facts
and circumstances of the present case as discussed above clearly
speak volumes not only about the arbitrary functioning of MOC
officers but also about their brazenness in doing so, caring the least
for the rule of law. The bald argument that the decision taken by them
can not be questioned in the present proceedings or can not be
subjected to judicial review in the present proceedings, again I may
say is a brazen argument. 339. In order to ascertain the existence of element of culpability or
mensrea or guilty intention in the acts of omissions and commission
of accused public servants, all such aspects are required to be taken
into consideration. As shall be further discussed, all the witnesses
examined either by the prosecution or by the defence have stated

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 286 of 467
 that no interse priority chart or interese merit chart was provided to
them in the Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.2008. On
the other hand accused MOC officers have claimed that as there
was no requirement to prepare any such interse priority chart or
interse merit chart in the guidelines so no fault can be found on their
part on this ground. I may however state that in fact there was no requirement
of mentioning in the guidelines that any interse merit chart or interse
priority chart shall be prepared, for the same would have been the
part of process which was required to be adopted in achieving the
goals mentioned in the guidelines. The guidelines admittedly
contained the goals which were required to be achieved and not the
means thereof. Even otherwise if the argument put-forth by Ld.
Counsels for the accused persons is considered then also when the
said guidelines in question were prepared and approved by accused
MOC officers themselves then keeping in view their vast experience
on the administrative side and being senior officers of Indian
Administrative Service, it was expected of them to also provide in the
guidelines as to how the said goals will be achieved or what shall be
the process or procedure to be followed. On the other hand they
should have thought of some procedure vide which the guidelines so
framed by them would have been implemented. Thus once again
accused MOC officers can not try to eke out any benefit from their
own follies. 340. In fact from the proceedings of Screening Committee and

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 287 of 467
 which shall be discussed at length at a slightly later stage of the
judgment it is apparent that the most important part of the guidelines
which were required to be complied with by the Screening Committee
i.e. to ascertain the interse priority from amongst the competing
applicant companies was not at all followed or complied with. 341. The aforesaid discussion thus brings us to the next issue as
to how the decision of recommending A-1 M/s VMPL for allocation of
a coal block was arrived at in the Screening Committee meeting held
on 03.07.08. The claim of accused MOC officers that all the decisions
of the Screening Committee and especially as regard A-1 M/s VMPL
as were taken in the Screening Committee meeting held on
03.07.2008 were unanimous will also be required to be examined. G (vii) Whether the recommendations made by 36 th
Screening Committee meeting were unanimous. 342. It has been the constant and consistent stand of accused
public servants that during the Screening Committee meeting held on
03.07.2008 detailed discussion were held qua the claim of each of
the applicant company when the issue of allocation of various coal
blocks were individually taken up. It was also submitted that since the
recommendations of Screening Committee were unanimous in nature
so in accordance with the letter and spirit of Para 54 (4) (c) of Manual
of Office Procedure the essence of outcome of the deliberations was
only recorded. As regard non-mentioning of reasons for choosing one
or the other company from amongst many applicant companies for
any given coal block in the minutes of the meeting, it was submitted

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 288 of 467
 that had any such detailed discussion was to be mentioned then the
minutes would have run into hundreds of pages. While referring to the
deposition of various prosecution witnesses as well as that of DW-5
Bhaskar Khulbe and DW-6 Shivraj Singh, it was submitted that
admittedly during the course of Screening Committee meeting all the
members were free to air their views and there was no restriction on
anyone to give any contrary or conflicting view/opinion. It was also
submitted that at the conclusion of the meeting held on 03.07.2008
recommendation sheets containing final decision of the Screening
Committee were prepared and all the members so present duly
signed the said recommendation sheets without recording any
objection or dissenting views. It was also submitted that even
subsequent to the Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.2008,
no objections were received from either Administrative Ministries or
from the State Governments concerned or from any other member of
Screening Committee regarding the final recommendations so arrived
at by the Screening Committee. It was also submitted that in the
minutes itself, it is clearly mentioned in para 14 that the Committee
assessed the applications having regard to matters such as techno-
economic feasibility of end use project, status of preparedness to set
up the end use project, past track record in execution of project,
financial and technical capabilities of applicant companies,
recommendations of the State Governments and the Administrative
Ministries concerned etc. The recommendation of the Screening
Committee were thus stated to be unanimous. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 289 of 467 343. On the other hand Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh. Sanjay Kumar while
referring to the deposition of DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe and DW-6 Shiv
Raj Singh submitted that the defence witnesses themselves stated
that all the recommendations were not unanimous. He also pointed
out that the meeting as per the minutes thereof started at 3 PM and
as stated by defence witnesses lasted for about 1 ½ hour only. It was
thus submitted that in such a short span of time when admittedly
various members of the Committee including A-4 H.C. Gupta, the
Chairman of the Committee made some general remarks then it was
not only highly improbable but also impossible for the Screening
Committee to have a discussion about 674 applications of 184
applicant companies with respect to 23 coal blocks under
consideration and that too qua all the factors as are mentioned in
para 14 of the minutes. It was also submitted by Ld. Sr. P.P. that as
the minutes of the meeting were admittedly prepared later on in MOC
and were also not sent for confirmation to members of Screening
Committee before they were put up for approval before the Prime
Minister as Minister of Coal so there was no occasion for anyone to
point out any discrepancy in the minutes or to raise any objection.
The recommendations made by the Screening Committee were thus
stated to be not unanimous. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 290 of 467
 My Discussion 344. In order to appreciate the aforesaid issue, it will be worthwhile
to once again revisit and understand the constitution and composition
of Screening Committee and its working. The composition of
Screening Committee when examined in relation to its mandate and
actual working will help in understanding as to how the working of
Screening Committee was supposed to have taken place. It will also
help in appreciating the contentions of Ld. Counsels for accused
public servants as regard the process followed in the 36 th Screening
Committee meeting for arriving at its recommendations. (a) Constitution of Screening Committee. 345. As earlier also mentioned, the Screening Committee was
constituted with a view to expedite the captive coal block allocation
process. While MOC was the Nodal Ministry for allocation of coal
blocks but the views of Administrative Ministries such as Ministry of
Power, Ministry of Steel, DIPP were important as the coal blocks
were proposed to be allocated to those companies who were
engaged in either generation of power or production of iron and steel
or cement. Thus as the end use projects pertained to the jurisdiction
of said other Administrative Ministries so their views were certainly
important in considering the issue of allocation of various coal blocks
to different applicant companies engaged in production of one or the
other end use products. Similarly the views of State Governments

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 291 of 467
 where the coal blocks proposed to be allocated, were situated or that
of the state Governments where the end use plant was established or
was proposed to be established were also equally important. The
views of CMPDIL or CIL or its other subsidiary companies were also
important from the point of view of obtaining technical details of the
coal blocks proposed to be allocated or the progress made by any
applicant company qua any coal block, if previously allocated to it. 346. However before proceeding further it will be also appropriate
to discuss briefly as to how the business of Government of India is
carried out. The business of the Government of India is disposed of at
various levels within the Ministries/Departments in terms of the
Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961 [herein-
after referred to as "AoB Rules, 1961"] by, or under the general or
special directions of the Minister-in-charge. However, the government
of India (Transaction of Business) Rules, 1961, [herein-after referred
to as "ToB Rules, 1961"], stipulate that such disposal of business is
subject to the provisions relating to consultation with other
Ministries/Departments, approval of the Prime Minister, the Cabinet
and its Committees and the President. Accordingly, while a significant
portion of the Government business gets disposed of at the
departmental level, certain cases, or class of cases that are important
from the national perspective, require approval of the Cabinet or one
of the Committees of the Cabinet. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 292 of 467 347. Both AoB Rules, 1961 and ToB Rules, 1961 have been
framed under Article 77 (3) of the Constitution of India. The first
schedule to the AoB Rules, 1961 specifies the Ministries,
Departments, Officers and Secretariats while the second schedule
lists out the business allocated to different Ministries/Departments of
the Government of India. The cases that require approval of the
Cabinet, are indicated in the second schedule, and those requiring
approval of the Committees of the Cabinet are indicated in the first
schedule to the ToB Rules, 1961. One such illustrative case which is required to be placed
before the Cabinet is "Cases in which a difference of opinion arises
between two or more Ministries and a Cabinet decision is desired". 348. Thus if any action even though it may concern any given
Department or Ministry in terms of AoB Rules, 1961 but if it also
impacts the business of other departments or Ministries or even that
of any State Government than before any such matter is processed
further for approval by the concerned department/Ministry [Nodal
Ministry/Department] than it is imperative that concurrence of such
other Departments/Ministries or State Governments is also obtained.
However in the event of such concurrence not being possible, the
views of the differing Departments are to be appropriately included in
the minutes of any such consultative meeting or note prepared
consequent thereto on the basis of which approval from the
competent authority concerned, be it Minister-in-charge or Cabinet or
any of its Committees is being sought. Such minutes or notes should

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 293 of 467
 thus reflect the views of the Departments concerned and should also
not be paraphrased in a manner that may not correctly reflect the
view/point of the consulted department. 349. Thus procedurally under the ToB Rules, 1961, the Minister-in-
charge of the Department would be within his right to bring the
matters before the Cabinet in all cases of difference of opinion
between Ministries whose business is impacted. However, in all
cases of differences between Ministries, it is incumbent upon the
sponsoring Ministry to honestly reflect the views/comments of the
consulted Ministries/Departments alongwith their counter views, if
any. The sponsoring department/Ministry ought not to cursorily brush
aside the views of the consulted departments/Ministries. This is all
the more important and required before the Minister-in-charge of the
concerned Ministry may take an objective view as to whether the
matter needs to be placed before the Cabinet or any of its
Committees or not. 350. Moreover under Rule 11 of the ToB Rules, 1961 it is the
responsibility of the Secretary of the Ministry/Department to ensure
that the requisite rules/regulations/procedures/processes etc. are duly
observed while disposing of the business of the Department. 351. It is in the light of aforesaid rules that not only the minutes of
36th Screening Committee ought to have been recorded but the
liability of accused MOC officers and especially that of A-4 H.C.
Gupta, Secretary Coal is to be viewed and assessed. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 294 of 467 352. It is in pursuance to the aforesaid rules that Government of
India constituted such an inter-departmental/inter-governmental body
called Screening Committee so as to screen the proposals of various
applicant companies by obtaining views/comments of all concerned
at one single place and thereafter to make recommendations for
allocation of various coal blocks in favour of different applicant
companies in an objective and transparent manner. Admittedly the
allocation of captive coal blocks to various private companies
engaged in different end use projects impacted the
business/functioning of various other Ministries/Departments and also
that of State Governments. 353. It was in order to achieve the said objective only that MOC
framed detailed guidelines and also brought them to the notice of
public at large informing them as to in what manner the applications
will be received in MOC or in what manner they shall be processed or
how the inter-se priority amongst various applicant companies for any
given coal block shall be decided. 354. Thus keeping in view the aforesaid objective for which the
Screening Committee came to be constituted i.e. to screen the
proposals received for captive mining in an objective and transparent
manner and that too in consultation with all concerned
Departments/Ministries and State Governments all the applicants
were directed to submit their applications in five copies. Four copies
thereof were accordingly sent to concerned Administrative
Ministry(ies) and to the concerned State Government(s) beside also

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 295 of 467
 sending one copy to CMPDIL. One copy of all the applications was
however retained in MOC. Thus one set of applications of all such
companies which were either having an existing steel plant or
sponge iron plant or were proposing to establish a steel or sponge
iron plant was sent to Ministry of Steel and not to Ministry of Power.
Similarly one set of applications of all such companies who were
either having an existing power plant or were proposing to establish a
power project was sent to Ministry of power and not to Ministry of
Steel or to any other Administrative Ministry. Similar was the situation
qua the applications of companies having an existing cement plant or
who were proposing to establish an end use project in cement sector.
Copy of their applications was sent only to DIPP for comments/views
and not to Ministry of Power or Steel. On similar lines, one copy of
the applications was sent to only those State Governments where
any given coal block was situated whose allocation was being sought
by any given company or to state where existing end use plant of the
company qua which allocation of a coal block was sought, was
situated or any such end use plant was proposed to be established.
In this manner the copy of applications of all the applicant companies
was sent only to concerned State Governments and to concerned
Administrative Ministries only and not to all State Governments or
Administrative Ministries who were members of Screening
Committee. However one copy of all applications was also sent to
CMPDIL for its comments. In fact CMPDIL was also asked to make a
compilation of all the information furnished by the applicant
companies in their application forms and as was also there in soft

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 296 of 467
 copy in the CD submitted by the applicant companies alongwith their
applications. 355. Thus from the aforesaid circumstances it is clear that in the
Screening Committee meetings, representatives of all the State
Governments were not concerned with the application of any such
company who was neither applying for any coal block situated in their
state nor was proposing to have its end use project in their State.
Admittedly applications of all the companies were not even sent to all
the State Governments. Similarly a given Administrative Ministry was
also not concerned with the applications of all such companies who
were neither engaged nor were proposing to engage in any end use
project relating to their Ministry. A natural consequence of the
aforesaid scheme of arrangement was that the representatives of
State Governments or Administrative Ministries in the Screening
Committee meeting were not having any knowledge of the claims of
any such applicant companies whose applications were not sent to
them by MOC qua any factor much less as regard their financial
strength or their technical capabilities or progress made by them
towards establishing their end use project. They were also not aware
of the recommendations/views of other State Governments or
Administrative Ministries as regard various applicant companies for
any given coal block, since the views/comments of all State
Governments and Administrative Ministries were though available
with MOC but were not circulated or exchanged amongst all the
members. Thus the state Government representatives were

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 297 of 467
 accordingly not concerned with the recommendations made by the
Screening Committee qua any coal block in favour of any applicant
company as long as the said coal block was not situated in their state
or the proposed end use project of the applicant company being
recommended was not being established in their State. Similarly the
representatives of Administrative Ministry(ies) were not concerned
with any such recommendation as long as the end use project for
which any coal block was recommended for allocation did not pertain
to their Ministry. 356. If in the aforesaid circumstances the constitution and working
of Screening Committee is seen and visualized then it emerges out
as an irresistible and inevitable conclusion that the Screening
Committee was though constituted as a large broad based Inter-
Departmental and Inter-Governmental committee but in its actual
functioning it was working as a conglomeration of various small
Screening Committees. Thus in its actual working whenever
discussion qua any given coal block used to take place in the
Screening Committee meeting then applications of only those
companies who had applied for the allocation of said coal block used
to be considered. Officers of MOC however used to participate in the
discussion qua every coal block and also qua each of the applicant
company being the representatives of Nodal Ministry. Thus in any
such discussion qua any given coal block, the views of
representatives of the state Government where the coal block in
question was situated were also important. Representatives of other

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 298 of 467
 State Governments could participate only with respect to the claim of
such applicant companies who intended to establish their end use
project in their state. Similarly representatives of an Administrative
Ministry used to participate in the discussion only qua such
companies who were either already engaged or were proposing to
engage in an end use project relating to the said Administrative
Ministry. 357. The deposition of DW-6 Shiv Raj Singh, who participated in
the Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.08 clearly supports
the aforesaid conclusion. It is important to understand the aforesaid
working of Screening Committee since it will help in better
understanding the claim raised by Ld. Counsels for the accused
persons that the decisions made in the Screening Committee were
unanimous in nature and especially because while signing the
recommendation sheets the various members of Screening
Committee did not raise any objection. Thus from the aforesaid
nature of working of Screening Committee it becomes crystal clear
that in the discussion which took place in the Screening Committee
meeting held on 03.07.2008 qua any given coal block and while
considering applications of various applicant companies who had
applied for the said coal block under discussion only members of
such smaller Screening Committee would have participated and none
else. 358. It is in the light of aforesaid nature of constitution of Screening
Committee that the working of 36th Screening Committee needs to be

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 299 of 467
 discussed and analysed. (b) Working of 36th Screening Committee 359. Having discussed the composition of Screening Committee
and its mandate or objective to be achieved, it will be now worthwhile
to discuss the actual working of 36 th Screening Committee and that
too with reference to its final meeting held on 03.07.08. I may also
mention that my further discussion shall be primarily confined to the
recommendation made by 36th Screening Committee in favour of A-1
M/s VMPL with respect to allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block
situated in the State of West Bengal, qua which the present case
pertains to. 360. As regard discussion pertaining to allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block the concerned parties in 36 th Screening
Committee would have been thus the representatives of Ministry of
Coal, representatives of Ministry of Steel, i.e. the Administrative
Ministry for iron and steel projects, representatives of DIPP i.e. the
administrative Ministry for cement projects, representative of
Government of West Bengal where Moira-Madhujore coal block was
situated and representatives of such State Governments where
various applicant companies seeking allocation of Moira-Madhujore
coal block were proposing to have their end use project for which
allocation of captive coal block was sought. Accordingly
representative of State of Bihar where the proposed integrated steel
plant was to be established by A-1 M/s VMPL would have been an

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 300 of 467
 important entity whose comments/views would have mattered and
especially when the said company was finally recommended by the
Screening Committee for allocation of a coal block for its proposed
end use project situated in Bihar only. In fact minutes Ex. PW 1/L
(Colly) (D-11) of 36th Screening Committee in para 14 mentions that
while making recommendations the Screening Committee took into
consideration the techno-economic feasibility of end use project, and
also the status of preparedness to set up the end use project beside
various other factors mentioned over there. Certainly for ascertaining the techno-economic feasibility
the project report of the proposed end use project would have been
required and as regard status of preparedness to set up the end use
project, the report/views/comments of the State Government where
the end use project in question is proposed to be established.
Undisputedly as regard the application of A-1 M/s VMPL, the end use
project was proposed to be established in State of Bihar. As regard technical aspects, the inputs of representatives
of CIL and CMPDIL would have been also relevant. 361. Having so identified the concerned stakeholders whose views
would have mattered in the discussion/deliberations of 36 th Screening
Committee in arriving at a proper decision qua the companies to
whom Moira-Madhujore coal block could be recommended for
allocation, it will be now pertinent to discuss and analyse from the
various documents placed and proved on record coupled with the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 301 of 467
 deposition of various prosecution and defence witnesses as to the
manner in which 36th Screening Committee arrived at its
recommendation to recommend A-1 M/s VMPL as one of the six joint
allocatee company for Moira-Madhujore coal block. 362. However before adverting further it also needs to be seen as
to whether representative of State Government of Bihar was present
in the Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.2008 or not.
Undisputedly to none of the meetings of 36 th Screening Committee,
much less in the final meeting held on 03.07.08 where the
recommendations of 36th Screening Committee were arrived at, the
representative of State of Bihar was invited by MOC. Not only the
files of MOC supports the aforesaid fact but PW-1 V.S. Rana, the
then Under Secretary, MOC also states so. However the reason as to
why representative of State Government of Bihar was never invited to
attend any of the said meetings is not at all ascertainable from the
files of MOC. Even no explanation has come forth during the course
of entire trial as to why representative of Government of Bihar was
not invited to any of the 36th Screening Committee meetings. The
accused MOC officers have also not put-forth any explanation or
reason in this regard much less any plausible reason except that it
was for CA-1 Section officials led by PW-1 V.S. Rana to explain the
same. It would be however pertinent to mention at this stage that one
copy of application of A-1 M/s VMPL was however admittedly sent to
Government of Bihar for seeking its comments/views vide letter dated
19/28.02.2007 Ex. PW 1/G-3 (D-17). CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 302 of 467 363. Ld. Counsels for the accused persons have rather referred to
the deposition of PW-19 Insp. Rajbir Singh pointing out that in his
cross-examination he stated that representative of State Government
of Bihar was present in the Screening Committee meeting held on
03.07.08. He also stated that Sh. U.P. Singh, the then Joint Secretary,
Ministry of Steel had told him during the course of investigation that
probably in the year 2007, Sh. Phool Singh, the then Secretary
Industries, Government of Bihar had attended some meeting of
Screening Committee. It was thus submitted by Ld. Counsel for A-2
Vikash Patni that since vide letter dated 19.06.2007 Ex. PW 19/DX-5
[available at page 36 in file Ex. P-27 (Colly) (D-31)] Sh. Phool Singh
on behalf of Government of Bihar had recommended allocation of a
coal block in favour of M/s VMPL so it is clear that the claim of
company M/s VMPL was duly supported by State Government of
Bihar. 364. However before I discuss the issue as to whether
representative of State Government of Bihar was present in the
Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.2008 or not or whether
State Government of Bihar had supported the application of company
M/s VMPL for allocation of a captive coal block so as to establish the
proposed integrated steel plant or not, it will be appropriate to first
refer to the relevant portion of the statement u/s 161 Cr.PC of Sh.
U.P. Singh the then Joint Secretary, Ministry of Steel and the
consequent investigation carried out by IO Insp. Rajbir Singh. The relevant portion of the statement u/s 161 Cr.PC dated

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 303 of 467
 15.04.2013 of Sh. U.P. Singh recorded by IO Insp. Rajbir Singh
during the course of investigation read as under: 365. Thus even though in his statement u/s 161 Cr.PC Sh. U.P.
Singh stated that probably in December 2007, Sh. Phool Singh as a
representative of Bihar had attended the Screening Committee
meeting and had even suggested allocation of a suitable coal block in
favour of M/s VMPL but Insp. Rajbir Singh while being cross-
examined as PW-19 during the trial of present case also stated that
when he examined Sh. Phool Singh in this regard then he had
claimed ignorance as to whether he attended any such meeting or
not and rather asked him to point out any attendance sheet, if signed
by him. PW-19 Insp. Rajbir Singh also stated that though he had
recorded statement of Sh. Phool Singh u/s 161 Cr.PC in this regard
but the same was not filed in the Court alongwith report u/s 173 Cr.PC as he did not find it to be relevant. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 304 of 467 366. Strangely enough Insp. Rajbir Singh did not investigate the
said issue regarding presence of representative of State Government
of Bihar in any of the 36 th Screening Committee meeting any further
or I may state that he deliberately chose to overlook the said issue as
he neither placed on record the said statement u/s 161 Cr.PC of Sh.
Phool Singh as part of his report u/s 173 Cr.PC nor he mentioned the
fact that in none of the attendance sheets of 36 th Screening
Committee meetings the name of Sh. Phool Singh was mentioned. In
fact during the course of present trial also it is not the stand of anyone
that Sh. Phool Singh, Secretary Industries Government of Bihar or
any other officer of Government of Bihar was actually present in any
of the meetings of 36th Screening Committee much less in the final
meeting held on 03.07.08. 367. It is purely on the basis of lopsided investigation carried out
by IO, Insp. Rajbir Singh and vague answers given by him in his
deposition in the Court that Ld. Counsels for the accused MOC
officers are trying to eke out benefit by arguing that as per
prosecution witnesses, representative of State Government of Bihar
was present in the Screening Committee meeting. No doubt not only
the investigation conducted by IO Insp. Rajbir Singh as earlier also
mentioned has not been above board but also his deposition in the
Court in this regard is also not very forthcoming but what is important
to note is that the argument being put-forth now on behalf of accused
MOC officers is contrary to the records of the case i.e. the files of
Ministry of Coal as stands proved on record. IO Inspector Rajbir

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 305 of 467
 Singh has not cared to point out in his final report that in none of the
two meetings of 36th Screening Committee held in the month of
December, 2007 any discussion qua the claims of applicant
companies took place as in both the meetings held on 07/08.12.2007,
the representatives of various applicant companies merely made their
presentations before the Screening Committee. More over company
M/s VMPL admittedly made its presentation on 07.02.2008 only and
not in the month of December 2007. IO Inspector Rajbir Singh thus
did not even try to investigate the said issue at all much less faithfully
or honestly. This again appears to be an act constituting dishonest
and defective investigation with a view to file a closure report and
thereby in the process helping the accused persons in getting
absolved of all the charges. 368. At this stage, I may however also mention that Ld. Counsel
Sh. Sushil Kumar Gupta for A-2 Vikash Patni has vehemently argued
that recommendation of Government of Bihar in favour of M/s VMPL
was indeed sent to MOC vide letter dated 19.06.07 Ex. PW 19/DX-5
[available at page 36 in file Ex. P-27 (Colly) (D-31)] under the
signatures of Sh. Phool Singh, the then Secretary Industries, Govt of
Bihar. A bare perusal of said letter dated 19.06.2007 Ex. PW 19/DX-5
sent by Sh. Phool Singh, Commissioner & Secretary, Department of
Mines and Geology show that the said recommendation was only qua
the proposed power project of capacity 2 X 250 MW to be established
by M/s VMPL in the state of Bihar and not qua the proposed
integrated steel plant which was being considered by 36 th Screening

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 306 of 467
 Committee. The said recommendation letter was accordingly qua the
proceedings relating to 35th Screening Committee which was dealing
with issues relating to allotment of coal blocks reserved for power
sector and not qua 36 th Screening Committee which was dealing with
allocation of coal blocks reserved for other end uses i.e. iron,
steel/cement. It was for this reason only that the said letter was sent
by Sh. Phool Singh on 19.06.2007 as 35 th Screening Committee was
scheduled to meet on 20.06.2007 to consider various applications
qua coal blocks reserved for power sector. In the earlier part of the
judgment, I have however already discussed at length that A-1 M/s
VMPL had in fact dropped the very proposal of establishing the
integrated steel plant and had instead proposed to establish an
integral power plant. The fact thus remains that in 36 th Screening Committee
no representative of Government of Bihar was present. The
attendance sheets of 36 th Screening Committee clearly supports the
said fact. At this stage it would be worthwhile to mention that
alongwith the letter Ex. PW 1/G-3 (D-17) sent to Government of Bihar
by MOC, applications of M/s VMPL as were received for allocation of
a coal block for their proposed power project to be established in
Jharkhand and in Bihar and another set of application for their
proposed integrated steel plant to be also set up in Bihar were also
sent. [In fact at a later stage of the present judgment, I shall be

also discussing that M/s VMPL had in fact been pursuing various

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 307 of 467
 applications with MOC for allocation of captive coal blocks by initially
stating that they intend to establish an integrated steel plant in State
of Jharkhand or another application stating that they intend to
establish an integrated power plant in State of Jharkhand/Bihar.
Subsequently the company submitted yet another application
whereby it represented that they intend to establish an integrated
steel plant in State of Bihar. Accordingly the claim of M/s VMPL for
various such projects came up for consideration before 34 th
Screening Committee, 35th Screening Committee and as well as
before 36th Screening Committee for one or the other such project(s).
However in 34th Screening Committee and 35th Screening Committee,
the company could not succeed but they were successful in obtaining
recommendation for allocation of a captive coal block for their
proposed integrated steel plant in State of Bihar from 36 th Screening
Committee. In fact the aforesaid circumstances also explains the
casual manner in which the application in the present matter was
submitted by M/s VMPL by annexing documents pertaining to one or
the other project with their present application simply with a view to
fulfill the requirement of annexing the necessary/required documents
with the applications lest the application may be rejected at the
threshold itself for want of complete documents. There were
documents annexed with the application in question over here like
bar charts which did not co-relate with the claims made in the
application. The company and its officers/directors were clearly well
versed with the procedure being followed in MOC regarding
allocation of captive coal blocks and thus simply exploited the same

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 308 of 467
 to their benefit]. 369. Thus in the aforesaid circumstances when the copy of
application of M/s VMPL as was considered by 36 th Screening
Committee was sent to State of Bihar for their comments then it is
beyond comprehension as to why no notice of 36 th Screening
Committee meetings was thereafter sent to Government of Bihar for
attending its various meetings. It is also beyond comprehension as to
why no comments of Government of Bihar were insisted upon by
MOC if the same were not received till the time meetings were
proposed to be held or even subsequently by 36 th Screening
Committee when during the course of meeting it must have come to
their notice that neither any representative of Government of Bihar is
present nor any comments/views have been received. The attendance sheets of officers participating in various
meetings of 36th Screening Committee clearly support the fact that in
none of the meetings any representative of State Government of
Bihar was present. 370. In this regard, I may also mention that all through the entire
trial, the sole emphasis of the accused public servants has been that
it was the sole responsibility of CA-I Section officials and that of PW-1
V.S. Rana, the then Under Secretary CA-I Section to ensure that
proper steps for convening the meeting are taken. It has been stated
to be their duty only to send notices to all members of the Screening
Committee and to send reminders, if comments from any stake

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 309 of 467
 holders were not received till the time meetings were scheduled to be
held. In fact it was also sought to be argued that from the composition
of Screening Committee as was approved by Minister of Coal,
Government of India, it was only the coal bearing states whose
comments were relevant and not of the states where the proposed
end used project was to be established if the same is different from
the coal bearing state. 371. Before proceeding further it will be thus appropriate to first
discuss as to whether State Government of Bihar was a necessary
invitee to 36th Screening Committee meetings or also whether
comments of Government of Bihar were required to be placed before
the Screening Committee for its consideration. b (i) Whether State Government of Bihar was a necessary
invitee to 36th Screening Committee meetings. b (ii) Whether the comments of State Government of Bihar were
necessary to be placed before the Screening Committee. b (iii) Whose responsibility was it to ensure that notice of
Screening Committee meetings is issued to all members and to
also ensure that comments of all concerned are made available
to the Screening Committee for its consideration. The discussion qua all the aforesaid issues is proposed to
be carried out together as all the three issues are inter-connected and
the discussion qua them will overlap. 372. However in order to appreciate the aforesaid issues it will be
proper to first refer to the order specifying composition of Screening

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 310 of 467
 Committee as was uploaded on the website of MOC in November
2006, alongwith the advertisement inviting applications for 35 th and
36th Screening Committee. The same read as under: 373. Thus the aforesaid composition of Screening Committee
merely states that representative of concerned state Government
shall be a member of the Screening Committee. It no where qualifies
that representatives of the coal bearing states i.e. where coal block in
question are situated shall only be the member of the Screening
Committee. This issue gets further clarified if one refers to the
guidelines pertaining to interse priority amongst the competing

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 311 of 467
 applicants as were issued by MOC. Para 9 of the guidelines mentions
the various factors on the basis of which interse priority among the
competing applicants was to be decided. Para 9 of the guidelines read as under: 374. Thus from the aforesaid guidelines it is clear that while the
state government where the proposed end use project is to be

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 312 of 467
 established shall be a member of the Screening Committee but in
cases where it is not the same state where the coal block in question
is situated then for deciding the interse priority, the recommendations
of the coal bearing state shall only be relevant. In this regard one may
argue that if such an interpretation is adopted then all states of the
country ought to have been members of the Screening Committee,
for a given applicant company may choose to establish its end use
project in any state other than the coal bearing State. 375. Theoretically the aforesaid argument is completely true but in
actual working it was not so. It is a matter of common knowledge that
coal blocks in the country are situated only in very few states which in
fact are even called mineral rich states. Thus on account of simple
business/commercial prudence, any company desirous of seeking
allocation of a captive coal block would like to establish its proposed
end use project either in the same coal bearing state or at the most in
the nearest state, for otherwise the transportation cost of coal itself
will make the project financially unviable. However even otherwise
the copies of applications received in MOC were sent to different
stakeholders only after they were first segregated, block-wise, state-
wise and end use wise. Admittedly such an exercise was undertaken
in MOC after receipt of applications. The deposition of both PW-1
V.S. Rana and that of PW-7 Manas Kumar, the official of the office of
Coal Controller clearly renders support to the aforesaid fact. Thus the
segregation of applications must have given a clear picture to the
MOC officers as to comments/views of which states were relevant or

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 313 of 467
 are required to be called for even if they are not the coal bearing
states. It would have been clear to them as to in which states the
various applicant companies are proposing to establish their end use
projects. In fact it was for this reason only in the guidelines containing
composition of Screening Committee instead of mentioning names of
any of the state governments, the following words were only
mentioned: 376. Moreover if it was not so then there was no reason as to why
one set of application of M/s VMPL seeking allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block situated in the state of West Bengal but
proposing to establish its end use project in State of Bihar, was sent
to Government of Bihar vide letter Ex. PW-1/G-3 by MOC for seeking
their comments. Even one set of applications of some companies
was also sent to Government of Haryana, Punjab and to Government
of Uttar Pradesh as the companies had proposed to establish their
end use project in the said States. Undisputedly State of Haryana or
Punjab or even Uttar Pradesh were not the coal bearing states. 377. In fact the opening para of minutes of 36 th Screening
Committee Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) (D-11) also states that the applications
of the companies were also sent to the concerned states where the
blocks are located and also to the states where the proposed end use
projects are located for their comments. 378. Even note dated 16.07.2008 of Sh. Ashish Gupta, Director,

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 314 of 467
 PMO [available from page 52/N to 58/N in file Ex. P-34 (Colly) (D-41)]
on the basis of which recommendations made by 36 th Screening
Committee were processed in PMO and were finally approved by
Prime Minister as Minister of Coal also states that the applications
were also sent to states where the proposed end use projects would
be located. Thus it is crystal clear that the comments of the State
Government where the end use project is proposed to be established
were important even if it is presumed that actual presence of
representative of such a state was not required or mandated in the
Screening Committee. 379. Moreover in the light of aforesaid facts and circumstances
even if it is presumed for the sake of arguments that all these acts
qua convening of the Screening Committee meeting or for ensuring
comments from all stakeholders was the job of CA-1 Section officials
of MOC and that of PW-1 V.S. Rana, the then Under Secretary, CA-I
Section but still the question which arises for consideration is whether
during the course of any of the five meetings of 36 th Screening
Committee either A-4 H.C. Gupta who was Secretary Coal/Chairman
Screening Committee or A-5 K.S. Kropha, the then Joint Secretary
Coal/Member Convener, Screening Committee or even A-6 K.C.
Samria, the then Director, CA-1 ever questioned the CA-I
officials/officers as to why no representative from Government of
Bihar is present or as to why no comments from Government of Bihar
have been received. This aspect becomes all the more important

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 315 of 467
 since during 35th Screening Committee meeting when coal blocks
reserved for power sector were discussed and all the present three
accused public servants were also present, than it has been argued
that State of Bihar which again was not a coal bearing state and was
only the state where proposed end use project i.e. power plant was to
be established by M/s VMPL, was duly represented and even its
comments were received vide letter dated 19.06.07 under the
signatures of Sh. Phool Singh, the then Secretary Industries,
Government of Bihar. 380. Coming now to the issue as to whose responsibility was it to
ensure that notice of the Screening Committee meeting is sent to all
members of the Committee and also that comments of all concerned
are available before the Screening Committee, it will be worthwhile to
mention that in the written submissions filed by Ld. Counsel for
accused public servants, the role of convener of a meeting while
referring to "Shackleton on the Law and Practice of Meetings" has
been mentioned as under: (Emphasis supplied by me)

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 316 of 467 381. The written submissions filed by Ld. Defence Counsel further
read as under: Dictionaries define the term "Convener" as a person who is
 required to call people to a meeting. An illustrative list is given
 below: This is precisely what the Appellant had done, without assuming
 or arrogating any of the functions or powers of the Screening
 Committee to himself. 34.7 It is also necessary not to confuse the role and functions
 of a Convener with that of a Secretary. These are distinctly
 different, as per the ordinary dictionary meaning. The Oxford
 Living Dictionary defines the term 'secretary' as an official of a
 society or other organization who conducts its correspondence
 and keeps its records." (Emphasis supplied by me)

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 317 of 467 382. Thus from the aforesaid submissions itself, it is clear that it
was the role of the convener to get the notices issued and take steps
for holding of the meetings. Accordingly it was the responsibility of A-
5 K.S. Kropha who was member convener of the meeting to get the
notices issued to all members and take steps for holding of the
meetings. However as A-5 K.S. Kropha was a senior officer of the
rank of Joint Secretary so obviously such steps would have been
taken by his subordinates but he being the member convener can not
escape his responsibility of ensuring that notice of the meeting is
issued to all concerned and that all proper steps for holding of the
meeting are taken. It was certainly his responsibility to ensure that all
concerned are duly invited to attend the meeting. The minutes also
ought to have accordingly mentioned as to which of the essential
members are not present or whose comments have not been
received. 383. Moreover a perusal of note dated 14.11.2007 at note sheet
page 10 in file Ex. P-7 (Colly) (D-11) shows that while sending the
notices to members of Screening Committee qua initial meetings of
36th Screening Committee to be held on 07/08-12-2008 the file with
draft notices to be so issued by CA-I Section moved through the
desks of A-6 K.C. Samria and that of A-5 K.S. Kropha. Though for the
subsequent meetings held on 07/08-02-2008 the notices were sent to
members of Screening Committee with the approval being given by
PW-1 V.S. Rana only and the file in this regard did not move up.
However at the time of sending notices to members of Screening

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 318 of 467
 Committee for the final meeting to be held on 03/07/2008, the file with
draft notices as were put up by CA-I Section went upto the desk of A-
6 K.C. Samria and after his approval was returned back to CA-I
Section. 384. Thus A-5 K.S. Kropha being the member convener clearly
failed to perform his duty in ensuring that notices are sent to all
concerned for the meeting but even during the course of meeting he
did not point out as to why representative of Government of Bihar
was not present and that even no comments/views from Bihar
Government have been received. Admittedly the Screening
Committee was a small Committee comprising of only about 15/16
members and thus it would not have been difficult to notice that State
Government of Bihar is not present. This would have also become
apparent since M/s VMPL in his application had stated the location of
its proposed end use project as Bihar only and the said company was
finally recommended for allocation of a captive coal block by the
Screening Committee for its end use project in Bihar only. A-6 K.C.
Samria also thus can not escape from his responsibility in this regard
and more so when he was not only Director CA-I Section but in so
far as taking steps towards calling of Screening Committee meeting
he can not divest himself from A-5 K.S. Kropha who was Joint
Secretary, Coal and who was to act through him only while executing
all such steps. In fact the position of A-6 K.C. Samria was very crucial
in as much as he was not only to supervise the processing of
applications as was being undertaken in MOC and to not only keep

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 319 of 467
 senior officers abreast of all developments but to also execute their
directions. At the cost of repetition it may be stated that as all the
applications so received in MOC were addressed in the name of
office occupied by A-6 K.C. Samria, even though at an earlier point of
time some other officer was occupying the same. In fact if the arguments of A-6 K.C. Samria are to be
believed then except for acting as a post office and that he owed no
responsibility of any nature whatsoever. As regard processing of
applications in MOC he has tried to shift entire blame to CA-I Section
and to PW-1 V.S. Rana, Under Secretary, CA-I Section while
divesting himself of all responsibility in this regard despite being
Director CA-I and his officer being the addressee in all applications.
On the other hand in so far as the proceedings of Screening
Committee are concerned he has again divested him of all
responsibilities stating that since he was not a member of the
Screening Committee and for the said proceedings it is A-5 K.S.
Kropha and A-4 H.C. Gupta who may be responsible. This argument
of A-6 K.C. Samria is also to be considered in the light of fact that he
admittedly was present all through the meetings of Screening
Committee and his name finds mention in the attendance sheets of
all meetings of 36th Screening Committee. 385. In fact the records of the files of Government of Bihar also
shows that qua 35th Screening Committee proceedings wherein
applications received in MOC for allotment of caol blocks reserved for
power sector were considered, then communication qua the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 320 of 467
 application of M/s VMPL with respect to their proposed Integrated
Power Plant to be established at Begusarai in Bihar on the said 300
acres of land itself were undertaken. 386. The file Ex. P-27 (Colly) of Department of Mines and Geology,
Government of Bihar as is available in D-31 shows that on
27.08.2007, Sh. Narayan Murti, Deputy Secretary, Government of
Bihar had written a letter to A-6 K.C. Samria intimating about the
status of progress made by M/s VMPL towards setting up its power
project. The said status was provided by Government of Bihar in
response to a letter dated 02.08.2007 bearing No. 38011/1/2007/CA-I
sent under the signatures of A-6 K.C. Samria himself seeking such a
status of applicant companies for consideration by 35 th Screening
Committee. 387. The aforesaid fact gains material importance as the said
communication also talked about the same 300 acres of land allotted
to M/s VMPL and on that occasion a power plant was proposed to be
allocated over there. Similarly the letter dated 19.06.07 Ex. PW
19/DX-5 (D-31) written by Sh. Phool Singh, Commissioner &
Secretary, Department of Mines and Geology also talked of M/s
VMPL intending to establish a Power Project of capacity 2 X 250 MW
at Begusarai Bihar itself. Thus when after few months the application
of M/s VMPL again came up for consideration before 36 th Screening
Committee qua their proposal to set up an integrated steel plant at
Begusarai Bihar itself on 300 acres of land allotted to it then it would
have certainly put the three accused MOC officers on guard as they

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 321 of 467
 all three were present at the time of 35 th Screening Committee
meetings also. 388. It is in these circumstances the absence of representatives of
Stage of Bihar in the 36th Screening Committee meetings, having
been not invited by MOC and even not insisting for comments of
State of Bihar does raises eye brows as to the actual intention of
accused MOC officers. Thus in order to appreciate the role played by
all three accused MOC officers, a comprehensive view has to be
taken of the working of these officers in the entire coal block
allocation process. It can not be lost sight of that they were dealing
with important nationalised natural resources of the country i.e. coal,
which was having high monetary value in the market. Coal was one
of the most important raw material required for the industrial growth of
the country. This fact also shows that while considering the application
of company M/s VMPL for allocation of a captive coal block the
Screening Committee did not consider the recommendation of state
of Bihar at all as none was available. The averment in para 14 of the
minutes Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) that while making its recommendations
the Screening Committee took into consideration the status of
preparedness of the applicant companies towards setting up the end
use project was thus clearly not considered while making
recommendation in favour of M/s VMPL. Since the status of
preparedness of M/s VMPL towards setting up the end use project
could have been ascertained only from the comments of Government

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 322 of 467
 of Bihar and neither any such comments were received from
Government of Bihar nor any representative was present in the
Screening Committee meeting. The conduct of A-4 H.C. Gupta also
thus assumes significance in the entire process and more so in the
light of minutes of the meeting finally approved by him. 389. Thus from the aforesaid circumstances it becomes clear that
one of the important stake holder i.e. State of Bihar whose
comments/views would have thrown valuable light as to the claim of
M/s VMPL in seeking allocation of a captive coal block was
consciously left out of the 36th Screening Committee deliberations for
reasons best known to accused MOC officers only. The falsity in the
minutes Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) as regard the basis of recommendations
in favour of M/s VMPL also stands writ large on the face of record. 390. At this stage before proceeding further, I may also put a mark
of caution that while there may be various acts of omission and
commission attributable to CA-I Section officials or even to PW-1 V.S.
Rana, the then Under Secretary, MOC which may even make them
culpable in a given situation/proceeding but in the present trial what is
being examined now is the role played by the present three accused
public servants i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta, the then Secretary
Coal/Chairman Screening Committee, A-5 K.S. Kropha, Joint
Secretary, MOC/Member Convener, Screening Committee and A-6
K.C. Samria, the then Director, CA-1 Section, MOC. No evidence has
however come on record which could suggest that CA-I Section or
PW-1 V.S. Rana were hands in glove with the senior officers of MOC

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 323 of 467
 in any manner. Thus my discussion and analysis of the evidence led
in the present case will primarily remain confined to the role played by
these three accused public servants only. It is however true that these
three accused public servants can not be held vicariously liable for
any act of omission or commission attributable to other
officials/officers of MOC and can be held liable only for such acts of
omission as are directly attributable to them. However at the same
time an accused can not claim that since the role of other persons is
not being looked into so his role also should not be looked into. 391. The absence of representative of State of Bihar in the 36 th
Screening Committee meeting assumes all the more importance
especially in view of the fact that the allotment of 300 acres of land
earlier made in favour of M/s VMPL by BIADA was cancelled much
before 07.02.2008 i.e. the date when presentation was made by M/s
VMPL and the Form for Feed Back was submitted by it to 36 th
Screening Committee. Had representative of state Government of
Bihar been invited to the 36 th Screening Committee meetings as were
held on 07/02/2008 or on 03/07/2008 or comments from state of
Bihar insisted upon then there was no reason as to how M/s VMPL
could have continued to misrepresent before the Screening
Committee about its status/stage of preparedness towards
establishing the proposed end use project. The aforesaid facts and circumstances certainly throws
light as to the nature of functioning of MOC officers and that of 36 th
Screening Committee and also as regard the process adopted by the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 324 of 467
 Screening Committee in arriving at its recommendations. 392. I now propose to deal with the circumstances in which as per
accused public servants the Screening Committee allegedly arrived
at its recommendation for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in
favour of M/s VMPL. (c) Process followed by 36th Screening Committee which led to
selection of A-1 M/s VMPL as a joint allocatee for allocation of
Moira-Madhujore coal block. 393. DW-6 Shivraj Singh, the then Chief Secretary, Government of
Chhattisgarh had represented State Government of Chhattisgarh in
36th Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.08. He was
examined as a defence witness by A-4 H.C. Gupta, the then
Secretary, Coal and Chairman Screening Committee in his defence.
In his examination-in-chief DW-6 Shivraj Singh deposed as under: 394. Thus if the aforesaid process of discussion undertaken in the
meeting as has been stated by DW-6 Shivraj Singh in examination-in-
chief is considered to be the actual process undertaken in the
meeting then various question-marks arises as regard the role played
by the accused public servants in the Screening Committee meeting.
An analysis of the aforesaid process allegedly adopted by 36 th
Screening Committee is quite instructive as to how the name of M/s
VMPL could have come up for discussion and was finally
recommended for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block. 395. In this regard it will be important to first discuss the role
played by representative of State government of West Bengal.
Admittedly the name of M/s VMPL was not recommended to MOC by
State Government of West Bengal for allotment of any coal block
situated in State of West Bengal much less qua Moira-Madhujore
coal block. In fact DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe, (Advisor) Industries,
Government of West Bengal [He was examined as a defence witness
by A-4 H.C. Gupta] who was present in 36th Screening Committee
meeting held on 03.07.2008 as a representative of State Government
of West Bengal stated that in the meeting he had reiterated the
recommendations already made by Government of West Bengal to
MOC qua coal blocks situated in the state. Thus it is clear that DW-5
Bhaskar Khulbe representative of state of West Bengal himself had

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 326 of 467
 not recommended the name of M/s VMPL. In fact it is not even the
case of accused public servants that DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe had
himself recommended or even proposed the name of M/s VMPL for
allocation of any coal block much less for allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block. 396. During the course of his examination-in-chief, DW-5 Bhaskar
Khulbe was put the following question by Ld. Counsel for A-4 H.C.
Gupta to which he answered as under: 397. The purpose of mentioning the aforesaid facts is only to
demonstrate that in the Screening Committee meeting held on
03.07.08 representative of Government of West Bengal had himself
not proposed the name of M/s VMPL for allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block. 398. Similarly PW-14 Sh. Shashi Ranjan Kumar, Deputy
Secretary/Director DIPP stated in his deposition that in the Screening
Committee meeting he had reiterated the recommendations of DIPP
as were already sent to MOC. He also stated that as regard Moira-
Madhujore coal block M/s Lafarge India Pvt. Ltd. was recommended
by DIPP for its proposed cement project. His testimony to this effect
has remained uncontroverted. Thus irrespective of the fact whether
M/s Lafarge India Pvt. Ltd. was a deserving applicant company for
allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block or not, it is clear that PW-14
Sh. Shashi Ranjan Kumar also had not recommended the name of
M/s VMPL for allotment of any coal block much less qua Moira-
Madhujore coal block in the Screening Committee meeting. Once
again it is also not the case of even accused public servants that

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 328 of 467
 representative of DIPP recommended or proposed the name of A-1
M/s VMPL for allotment of any coal block. 399. In these circumstances one is left with only two other stake
holders i.e. MOC being the Nodal Ministry and Ministry of Steel which
was the concerned administrative Ministry qua steel projects.
Admittedly the views of CIL or CMPDIL would have been relevant
only qua the technical aspects and thus their views are not at all
relevant over here for the purpose of present discussion, even if any
views were expressed by them. Moreover the views, if any expressed
by them in the meeting are neither reflected in the minutes of the
meeting nor from any subsequent noting in the files of MOC. 400. Further from the deposition of DW-6 Sh. Shivraj Singh, it can
be safely inferred that the representative of Ministry of Steel must
have been first asked about his views. Admittedly M/s VMPL was
placed under category-VI by Ministry of Steel in terms of its
recommendations sent to MOC vide OM dated 06.12.07 Ex. PW-1/H-
5 [available from page 830-855 in file Ex. P-9 (Colly) (D-13)]. At the
same time it is also an undisputed case that in all 29 companies who
were proposing to establish steel project had applied for allocation of
Moira-Madhujore coal block and out of them eight companies were
placed in higher categories by Ministry of Steel than that of M/s
VMPL. In these circumstances it could not have been possible at the
first place for representative of Ministry of Steel to propose the name
of M/s VMPL for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block when there
were eight other companies already placed by them in higher

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 329 of 467
 categories than that of M/s VMPL. 401. DW-6 Shivraj Singh also stated that after the views of
Administrative Ministries and that of State Governments were sought
then Joint Secretary, Coal/Member Convener Screening Committee,
Sh. K.S. Kropha, used to be asked as to whether he has any
comments to offer. Thus even if it is presumed for the sake of
arguments that name of M/s VMPL was proposed by representative
of Ministry of Steel for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block then
also the necessary and logical corollary which follows is that upon
being asked to offer his comments, Member Convener, Sh. K.S.
Kropha who was also a Member of the Screening Committee and
was representing MOC i.e. the nodal Ministry was duty bound to raise
a query as to why the name of a company which has been placed
under Category-VI by Ministry of Steel is being proposed and more-
so when eight other companies are already available in higher
categories as recommended by Ministry of Steel itself. Even if it is
stated that Sh. K.S. Kropha was not competent to raise a query but
than at least while offering his comments to the Screening Committee
he was expected to point out to the Screening Committee that in the
Ministry of Steel recommendations sent to MOC there are eight (8)
other applicant companies placed in higher categories than company
M/s VMPL. Moreover apart from representatives of Ministry of Steel,
only the officers of MOC could have pointed out the aforesaid fact
before the Screening Committee as the recommendations sent by
Ministry of Steel to MOC were admittedly available in the Screening

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 330 of 467
 Committee either with Ministry of Steel officers or with Ministry of
Coal officers only. It has specifically come on record that the
recommendations of Administrative Ministries as were sent to MOC
were not supplied to other members of Screening Committee. 402. Thus if such a comment was not offered by A-5 K.S. Kropha
Joint Secretary, MOC then it was for him to explain only as to the
circumstances in which he chose not to make such a comment or to
disclose the said information to the Screening Committee. In fact the
minutes of 36th Screening Committee are otherwise completely silent
in this regard. No question or suggestion was even put in this regard
either to DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe or to DW-6 Shivraj Singh or to PW-12
Sh. N.R. Dash or even to PW-14 Shashi Ranjan Kumar who all were
admittedly present in the Screening Committee meeting, that any
such comment was offered by Joint Secretary Coal, Sh. K.S. Kropha. 403. The other side of aforesaid circumstances is that even
Ministry of Steel representative had also not proposed the name of
M/s VMPL for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block and it was
MOC officers themselves only who proposed the name of M/s VMPL
for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block. PW-12 Sh. N.R. Dash
who was present alongwith Sh. U.P. Singh, the then Joint Secretary,
Ministry of Steel also stated in his deposition that Ministry of Steel
had only reiterated its recommendation in the Screening Committee
meeting as were already sent by them to MOC. No question or
suggestion was even put to the said witness that the name of M/s
VMPL was proposed by representative of Ministry of Steel in the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 331 of 467
 Screening Committee meeting. 404. Thus the aforesaid conclusion about the probable course of
action in which the discussion qua A-1 M/s VMPL to be
recommended for Moira-Madhujore coal block must have gone in the
Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.08, appears to be the
only logical conclusion arising from the evidence led on record both
by the prosecution and the accused persons. An attempt has only
been made by the Court to reconstruct the sequence of events which
could have taken place in the Screening Committee meeting held on
03.07.08, if at all any discussion/deliberation took place over there.
Moreover the sequence of events so charted is also based on the
deposition of DW-6 Shivraj Singh, who was representing State of
Chattishgarh in the Screening Committee and was examined as a
defence witness by A-5 K.S. Kropha himself. Further more as the
minutes of meeting are completely silent as to who actually proposed
the name of M/s VMPL so from the aforesaid deduction of logical
steps, it stands well established that the name of M/s VMPL could
have been proposed only by MOC officers present in the Screening
Committee meeting and by none else. At the cost of repetition, I may
also state that if K.S. Kropha, Joint Secretary, Coal/Member
Convener of the Screening Committee had not opposed the name of
M/s VMPL by disclosing complete and correct information before the
Screening Committee, then even if the same was proposed by any
other member of the Screening Committee then also the same is
illustrative of yet another instance of abdication of his duty by him. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 332 of 467
 Similar is the role played by A-4 H.C. Gupta who was chairing the
meeting. Thus if a company whose name was neither recommended
by the state government where the coal block in question was
situated i.e. by State Government of West Bengal nor by DIPP and
the Ministry of Steel which was the concerned Administrative Ministry
had chosen to place M/s VMPL in category-VI while placing eight
other companies in higher categories, then it was incumbent upon the
MOC officers i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta and A-5 K.S. Kropha who were the
Chairman and Member Convener of the Screening Committee
respectively to at least put the things in right prospective during the
course of deliberations itself. Moreover it was least expected of them
that if recommendation in favour of any company is being made then
reasons thereof are duly mentioned in the minutes so that the
competent authority ie. Minister of Coal would have known the actual
facts or circumstances in which recommendation in favour of such a
company was made. Moreover since the function being discharged
by the Screening Committee was of utmost public importance and
pertained to allocation of important nationalized natural resources of
the country so due objectivity and transparency was required to be
maintained in the entire process so that the reasons for
recommending such a company for allocation of a captive coal block
are apparent from the face of record. Thus irrespective of the fact as to whether separate
minutes of all five meetings of 36 th Screening Committee ought to
have been recorded or not, the fact remains that the minutes so

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 333 of 467
 recorded ought to have disclosed the process adopted by the
Screening Committee in arriving at its recommendations in favour of
certain companies or as to why other companies have not been
selected. The two elements of objectivity and transparency qua which
it has been claimed that accused MOC officers were repeatedly
insisting upon in MOC were the first casualty when the occasion
demanded the same from them. Even if their earlier proposal to do
away with the Screening Committee route was not accepted and they
were thus compelled to continue to follow the Screening Committee
route only then the least they could have done was to ensure
complete transparency and objectivity in the entire process. The best
course to do so would have been to strictly follow the guidelines and
to record reasons for their every action. Consequently the minutes of
the meeting would have disclosed very fairly the entire process
followed or the reasons as to why certain companies were chosen to
be recommended as compared to the claims of other applicant
companies. Moreover the fact that M/s VMPL which was so
recommended was found to be having the least prepared status
towards setting up the proposed end use project as the very land
alloted to it by BIADA was already cancelled and was even found to
have misrepresented in its application as regard its financial strength
and existing and proposed capacity, so grave doubts does arise
about the conduct of accused MOC officers in the entire process or
as regard the reasons, if any for selecting M/s VMPL over the other

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 334 of 467
 competing applicant companies. At this stage, I would also like to mention that if for any
given coal block none of the applicant company(ies) was found to be
suitable then there was no compulsion upon the Screening
Committee to compulsorily make recommendation for allotment of
said coal block in favour of one or the other applicant company(ies). 405. At this stage, it will be also appropriate to deal with yet one
other argument put-forth by the accused persons and especially as
was argued on behalf of A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria that on
account of the existing capacity of sponge iron plant of company M/s
VMPL, even though in West Bengal, the company ought to have
been placed in category-II and not in category-VI as was done by
Ministry of Steel. 406. However PW-12 N.R. Dash in whose cross-examination the
said suggestion was put by Ld. Counsel for accused public servants
strongly refuted the said claim by stating that in accordance with the
criteria adopted by Ministry of Steel, both the existing as well as the
proposed capacity of the end use project ought to have been at the
same place. Thus as regard M/s VMPL, it was stated by him that as
the existing capacity of the company was at West Bengal whereas
the proposed end use project was to be established in Bihar so
Ministry of Steel while categorizing the company as per their criteria
did not consider the existing capacity at West Bengal and
consequently placed the company in category-VI. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 335 of 467 407. Ld. Counsels for the accused public servants however
disputed the said claim of PW-12 N.R. Dash and stated that the
company M/s VMPL was wrongly placed in category-VI by Ministry of
Steel and it ought to have been placed in category-II. 408. In this regard I may however state that the aforesaid
argument as regard the category in which M/s VMPL ought to have
been placed by Ministry of Steel is completely irrelevant for the
simple reason that during the Screening Committee meeting held on
03.07.08 no such discussion at all took place. It is not the case of
anyone that in the Screening Committee meeting any such issue
arose or was discussed at all. Even if the argument put-forth by Ld.
Counsels for the accused public servants is presumed to be correct
then also any such realisation now during the course of trial is of no
consequence at all. What is being examined in the present
proceedings is as to on what considerations M/s VMPL came to be
recommended for allocation of a captive coal block. The question
which thus arises for consideration is whether in the Screening
Committee meeting held on 03.07.08 this fact was pointed out to
representative of Ministry of Steel or not. Since it is not the case of
anyone that this issue was raised in the Screening Committee
meeting itself much less discussed and deliberated upon so it can not
be even remotely presumed that recommendation in favour of M/s
VMPL for allocation of a captive coal block was made after realising
the aforesaid alleged mistake in the recommendations made by
Ministry of Steel. Once again the minutes of the meeting which is the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 336 of 467
 only written record available in this regard of the contemporary period
is completely silent qua this aspect. No presumption can thus be
drawn that even though not recorded in the minutes but such
discussion did take place in the meeting or that any such discussion
must have taken place. 409. In these circumstances there does not arise any need to
examine as to whether M/s VMPL ought to have been placed in
category VI or category II. However, I may state that the issue
regarding existing plant of A-1 M/s VMPL at West Bengal will also
arise for consideration at a slightly later stage when it will be
discussed as to for which plant of the company, the Screening
Committee had recommended allocation of a captive coal block.
Moreover by calling upon this Court to consider the categorisation of
the company under one or the other category(ies) as were devised by
Ministry of Steel, the accused MOC officers are primarily asking this
Court to consider their oral claim which is not supported by any
written record and when especially such written record ought to have
existed if at all any such discussion had taken place in the Screening
Committee meeting. 410. Be that as it may from the records of the case and the overall
facts and circumstances of the case as discussed above, it cannot be
even presumed for the sake of arguments that in the Screening
Committee meeting any discussion qua the categorisation of A-1 M/s
VMPL in terms of the categories devised by Ministry of Steel at all
took place. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 337 of 467 411. At this stage it would be now also worthwhile to briefly
discuss the status of various companies who had applied for
allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block before the 36th Screening
Committee. 412. Total number of applicant companies qua whom Ministry of
Steel had sent the detailed status and categorisation vide Office
Memorandum dated 06.12.2007 Ex. PW 1/H-5 (Colly) was 125. The
said companies had applied for various coal blocks situated in
different States. Out of them Thirty-One (31) companies were placed
under "NIL" Category. Forty-Nine (49) companies were placed under
category VI. Forty-Five (45) companies were however placed in the
five other categories i.e. from Category I-V. 413. However, before proceeding further it will be appropriate to
once again reproduce over here for a ready reference, the various
categories as were devised by Ministry of Steel. The said criteria as
was communicated to MOC by PW 12 N.R. Dash vide Office
Memorandum dated 14.12.2007 Ex. PW 12/A (Colly) [available from
page 289 to 290 in file Ex. P-6 (colly) (D-10)] read as under: Category II: Companies having existing capacity less than
 eligible capacity (0.3 mT or 0.5 mT as the case may be) but
 their proposed expansion capacity which is likely to be
 commissioned by Dec, 2010 will enable them to have eligible
 capacity. (a)No coal linkage, no captive coal block. (b)Partial coal linkage, no captive coal block. (c) With coal linkage, no captive coal block. Category III: Any group of companies or consortium whose
 individual existing capacities are ineligible, make a viable
 joint venture and which joint venture enables it to have
 eligible capacity and the application is submitted in the name
 of joint venture. (a)No coal linkage, no captive coal block. (b)Partial coal linkage, no captive coal block. (c) With coal linkage, no captive coal block. Category IV: Companies having existing eligible capacity
 (0.3 mT or 0.5 mT as the case may be) (a)No coal linkage, captive coal block with less than 50%
 satisfaction level. (b)Partial coal linkage, captive coal block with less than 50%
 satisfaction level. Category V: Companies having existing capacity less than
 eligible capacity (0.3 mT or 0.5 mT as the case may be) but
 their proposed expansion capacity which is likely to be
 commissioned by Dec, 2010 will enable them to have eligible
 capacity. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 339 of 467 (a)No coal linkage, captive coal block with less than 50%
 satisfaction level. (b)Partial coal linkage, captive coal block with less than 50%
 satisfaction level. Category VI: Companies having no existing capacity, but
 proposes eligible capacity to be commissioned by
 December, 2010. Category VII: Any group of companies or consortium which
 forms a Joint Venture and such Joint Venture has Ineligible
 existing capacity but proposed expansion capacity of the
 Joint Venture enables it to have eligible capacity and the
 application is submitted in the name of Joint Venture." 414. While placing the applicant companies under one or the other
category, Ministry of Steel had however considered the information
furnished in their applications by the applicant companies only. As
regard Moira-Madhujore Coal Block Twenty-Nine (29) companies had
in fact applied. Out of them Eight (8) companies were placed by
Ministry of Steel in category I-V. Nineteen (19) companies including
M/s VMPL were however placed in Category VI. The remaining two
companies were however not assigned any category. 415. On the other hand, DIPP vide Office Memorandum dated
16.05.2007 Ex. PW 14/A (colly) [available from page 1A to 37 in file
Ex. P-6 (colly) (D-10)] had recommended fifteen (15) companies for
allocation of one or the other coal block from out of ninety-five (95)
applicant companies belonging to cement sector as were received by
it from MOC. As regard Mora-Madhujore Coal block M/s Lafarge India
Pvt. Ltd was recommended by DIPP. 416. Coming now to the total recommendations made by 36 th

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 340 of 467
 Screening Committee in its meeting held on 03.07.2008 for various
coal blocks including Moira-Madhujure Coal block it will be pertinent
to mention that for 23 coal blocks which were under consideration
Thirty-Eight (38) companies in all were recommended. Out of them
Twenty-Six (26) companies so recommended were engaged in Iron &
Steel sector and the other Twelve (12) companies were engaged in
Cement sector. 417. Further from out of Twenty-Six (26) companies engaged in
iron and steel sector so recommended by 36 th Screening Committee,
Fifteen (15) companies were from out of Forty-Five (45) companies
which were placed in category I-V by Ministry of Steel. Eight (8)
companies were from out of Forty-Nine (49) Companies placed in
Category VI by Ministry of Steel. Three (3) Companies were however
recommended from out of Thirty-One (31) Companies placed under
category "NIL" by Ministry of Steel i.e. companies who were assigned
no category. 418. As regard Twelve (12) Cement companies which were
recommended for allocation by 36th Screening Committee ten (10)
companies were from out of those Fifteen (15) companies which were
recommended by DIPP also. However, Two (2) other companies so
recommended by the Screening Committee were in fact not
recommended by DIPP for allocation of any coal block. The
remaining five (5) companies though recommended by DIPP were
however not recommended for allocation of any coal block by the 36 th
Screening Committee. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 341 of 467 419. As regard Moira-Madhujore Coal block Six (6) companies
were in fact recommended by the Screening Committee for joint
allocation. From out of the six companies so recommended namely
(1) Ramsarup Lohh Udyog, (2) Adhunik Corporation Ltd, (3) Uttam
Galva Steels Ltd, (4) Howrah Gases Ltd, (5) Vikash Metal & Power
Ltd and (6) ACC Ltd, five (5) companies were engaged in Iron & Steel
sector and One (1) company was engaged in Cement sector. From
out of five (5) companies engaged in Iron & Steel Sector, three (3)
companies were from out of those companies which were placed
under category VI by Ministry of Steel. One other company i.e.
Ramsarup Lohh Udyog recommended by the Screening Committee
was however placed under "NIL" category by Ministry of Steel. The
fifth company recommended by the Screening Committee was placed
in category II by Ministry of Steel. 420. Thus from out of Twenty-Nine (29) companies which had
applied for Moira-Madhujore Coal block, Twenty-Four (24) companies
were not recommended by the Screening Committee for allocation of
any coal block. Moreover as earlier also mentioned from out of eight
(8) companies which were placed in Category I-V by Ministry of Steel
only two (2) companies were recommended for allocation of one or
the other coal block i.e. one for Moira-Madhujore coal block and the
other for some other coal block. There were Three (3) other
companies who had though applied for Moira-Madhujore coal block
but were recommended for allocation of some other coal block by the
Screening Committee. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 342 of 467 421. For a ready reference the aforesaid detailed facts have been
tabulated as under also: PW 14/A (colly) (D-10). 1 Total number of applications received by D.I.P.P qua 95
 cement sector 2 Total number of companies recommended 15 C) Total Recommendations made by 36 th Screening Committee with respect
to 23 Coal Blocks in terms of Minutes Ex. PW 1/L (colly) (D-11). 1 Total Recommendations made 38 companies (i) Total number of companies engaged in Iron & Steel 26
 sector (ii) Total number of companies engaged in cement sector 12 Total 38 D) Bifurcation of 26 companies engaged in Iron & Steel sector as were
recommended for allocation of captive coal blocks by 36 th Screening
Committee vis-a-vis the recommendations of Ministry of Steel. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 343 of 467 3 Companies under category "NIL" 3 Total 26 E) Bifurcation of 12 companies engaged in cement sector as were
recommended for allocation of captive coal blocks by 36 th Screening
Committee vis-a-vis the recommendations of D.I.P.P. 1 Companies recommended by D.I.P.P 10 2 Companies not recommended by D.I.P.P 2 F) Status of applicant companies engaged in Iron and Steel sector who
applied for allocation of Moira Madhujore Coal Block. 2 Companies from category I-V recommended by 36 th 1
 Screening Committee for allocation of Moira
 Madhujore coal block
3 Companies who were recommended for other coal 4
 blocks
4 Companies not recommended for allocation of any 24
 coal block

G) Status of six companies who were recommended for joint allocation of
Moira Madhujore coal block by 36 th Screening Committee vis-a-vis
recommendations of Ministry of Steel and that of D.I.P.P.

1 M/s Howrah Gases Ltd Category - II (Ministry of Steel)
2 M/s Adhunik Corporation Ltd Category - VI (Ministry of Steel)
3 M/s Uttam Galva Steels Ltd Category - VI (Ministry of Steel)
4 M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd Category - VI (Ministry of Steel)
5 M/s Ramsarup Lohh Udyog Ltd Category - NIL (Ministry of Steel)
6 M/s ACC Ltd Recommended for Kesla/Rajhara Coal
 Block by D.I.P.P. and not for Moira
 Madhujore coal block. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 344 of 467 422. The whole purpose of carrying out the aforesaid extensive
analysis is only to highlight that though there appears to have been
conscious decision by the Screening Committee of selecting some
companies and eliminating others but neither the Minutes of
Screening Committee nor any subsequent noting in the files of MOC
throws any light at all as to the reasons or process adopted for
selecting some companies and not selecting others. The purpose of
the entire exercise is not to either suggest or to substitute the
decision of the Screening Committee qua any company in any
manner but to only highlight that in the entire process of coal block
allocation the twin concepts of objectivity and transparency were
completely thrown to wind. Nothing is ascertainable from the record
as to on what basis the inter-se priority or inter-se merit was arrived
at from amongst the various competing applicant companies who had
applied for allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block. The proceedings
of Screening Committee or that of MOC are completely silent in this
regard. 423. It is in these circumstances, the submissions of Ld. Counsels
for accused public servants that if the reasons for selecting some
companies for being recommended for allocation of coal blocks or for
not selecting the others were to be recorded in the minutes itself then
the same would have run into hundreds of pages, certainly appears
to be a lame excuse so as to cover up their arbitrary and malafide
acts of exercise of discretion. 424. When the aforesaid selection of some companies and

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 345 of 467
 elimination of others is seen in the light of deposition of DW-5
Bhaskar Khulbe and that of DW-6 Shivraj Singh then it is found that in
the Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.08, the Screening
Committee within a time period of about 1 ½ hour arrived at its
recommendations while discussing about 674 applications and that
too for 23 coal blocks. The said meeting undisputedly started at 3
PM. In fact while suggesting the date of Screening Committee to be
held on 03.07.08, A-4 H.C. Gupta also indicated the time of proposed
meeting as 3 PM [At note sheet page 32 in file Ex. P-7 (Colly) (D-11)].
The attendance sheet of officers who participated in the meeting held
on 03.07.08 also stated the meeting time as 3 PM. It is in these
circumstances, difficult to believe as to how the Screening Committee
deliberated on the information furnished by various applicant
companies and also on various factors as are mentioned in the
minutes of 36th Screening Committee meetings. At this stage, it would be worthwhile to refer to the
relevant portion of the minutes Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) (D-11) over here: As regards inter-se distribution of shares among the joint
 allocattees, it was decided by the Committee that capacity of
 end-use projects shall be determined as follows: use project, status of preparedness to set up the end-use
 project, past track record in execution of projects, financial and
 technical capabilities of applicant companies,
 recommendations of the State Governments and the
 Administrative Ministries concerned etc. The Screening
 Committee, accordingly, decided to recommend for allocation
 of coal blocks in the manner as follows: 425. It is in the aforesaid circumstances being repeatedly
emphasized that the minutes Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) (D-11) of 36 th
Screening Committee do not reflect any reasons much less any
process on the basis of which the committee arrived at its
recommendations. In fact it was only the main application of each
company as was submitted in the prescribed format which was part of
the agenda note. The various supporting documents are no where
shown to have been considered by the Screening Committee. In fact
at a slightly later stage I shall be also discussing and demonstrating
that a perusal of the application of M/s VMPL would have also
indicated to the MOC officers that the applications have not been
checked for their completeness and eligibility. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 347 of 467 426. It is thus crystal clear that the guidelines issued by MOC for
ascertaining inter se priority from amongst the competing applicants
were not at all followed. The over all facts and circumstances as
mentioned above thus clearly points to only one irresistible
conclusion that the accused MOC officers whose duty was it to
ensure compliance with the guidelines did not do so only because
they wanted to extend some undue benefit to certain companies and
that too as against the public interest. They thus clearly abused their
position as such. 427. At this stage I may again mention that the aforesaid sequence
of events relating to proceedings of the Screening Committee have
been deduced not by way of any presumption or assumption but are
the necessary and natural corollary emerging out from the evidence
led by the prosecution as well as by the accused persons
themselves. (d) Significance of signing the recommendation sheets by
the members of Screening Committee in its meeting held on
03.07.2008 and whether it conveys unanimity. 428. It has been also strongly argued by Ld. Counsels for the
accused public servants that the very factum of signing of
recommendation sheets by the members of Screening Committee at
the conclusion of the meeting held on 03.07.08 clearly shows that
they all were in agreement with the recommendations so made by the
Screening Committee on that date. It was also argued that since

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 348 of 467
 none of the members made any dissent note on the recommendation
sheets so the same also shows that all the decisions taken in the
Screening Committee meeting were unanimous and all the members
had consented to the same. My Discussion 429. At the outset, I may state that the aforesaid argument though
appears to be forceful but is completely not tenable especially in
view of my earlier discussion wherein it has been concluded that qua
discussion pertaining to any coal block situated in a given state, it
was only the representative of the said coal bearing state and the
state where the proposed end use project was to be established who
were only concerned with the discussion and not the representatives
of all state Governments. Representatives of MOC were common
factors in discussion of all coal blocks under consideration as Ministry
of Coal was the Nodal Ministry. Further if the applicant companies
who had applied for allocation of any given coal block were
proposing to establish iron/sponge iron/steel project then Ministry of
Steel representative was also the concerned member and in case
any company seeking allocation of the said coal block was proposing
to establish a cement project then representative of DIPP was also a
concerned member to the discussion. Representatives of CIL and
CMPDIL were admittedly concerned only with the technical aspect of
the matter. However the representatives of none of the other State
Governments or that of Ministry of Power were in any manner
concerned with the said discussion. In these circumstances if despite

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 349 of 467
 the aforesaid admitted position, all the members of the Screening
Committee were asked to put their signatures on the
recommendation sheets qua all coal blocks then in no way the factum
of signing the recommendation sheets can signify either their consent
or unanimity in the decision of the Screening Committee. 430. DW-6 Shivraj Singh in fact stated in his deposition that apart
from making a general statement in the beginning of the meeting held
on 03.07.08, he had offered his comments qua the coal blocks
situated in the State of Chhattisgarh only. He further stated that as he
was not concerned with the coal blocks situated in other states as
long as none of the applicant companies seeking allocation of any
such coal block had proposed to establish its end use project in State
of Chattisgarh so no comments were offered by him in the discussion
qua other coal blocks. Admittedly copies of applications of various
applicant companies were not sent to all members of the Screening
Committee. DW-6 also deposed that during the course of Screening
Committee meeting he had also gone out to have tea etc for about 30
minutes and similarly some other members had also gone out of the
meeting hall. Thus from the aforesaid circumstances, it is clear that
when all the members present had not participated in the discussion
qua each of the coal block under consideration or qua each of the
applicant company then it can not be concluded by any stretch of
imagination that mere signing of recommendation sheets at the end
of meeting signifies that all decisions were taken with unanimity or
that all the members were in agreement with the decisions so taken. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 350 of 467 431. The aforesaid conclusion further gets fortified when it is found
that even the five recommendation sheets prepared in the meeting
held on 03.07.2008 were not signed by all the members present. In
the cross-examination of DW-6 Sh. Shivraj Singh it has been
demonstrated by Ld. Sr. P.P. that while the recommendation sheet
with respect to coal blocks situated in the state of Madhya Pradesh
was signed by 16 members of the Screening Committee but the
recommendation sheet with respect to coal blocks situated in the
state of Jharkhand was signed only by 14 members. Similarly the
recommendation sheet with respect to coal blocks situated in the
state of Maharashtra was also found to have been signed by 14
members only. On the other hand the recommendation sheet with
respect to coal blocks situated in the state of West Bengal was
signed by 15 members. Strangely enough the recommendation sheet
with respect to coal blocks situated in the state of Chhattisgarh was
found to have been signed only by 13 members of the Screening
Committee. It was also found that none of the five recommendation
sheets as above were signed by representatives of MOC i.e. neither
by A-4 H.C. Gupta, who also was the Chairman of the Screening
Committee nor by A-5 K.S. Kropha who was the Member Convener of
the Screening Committee. The aforesaid facts not only demonstrate as to how
casual and perfunctory was the functioning of Screening Committee
but it also reinforces the conclusion that as the various
recommendation sheets were not signed by all the members present

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 351 of 467
 including MOC officers so by no stretch of imagination can it be
concluded that signing of recommendation sheets in any manner
conveyed that all the decisions of the Screening Committee were
taken with unanimity. 432. The factum of non-signing of recommendation sheets either
by A-4 H.C. Gupta, Chairman, Screening Committee or by A-5 K.S.
Kropha, Member Convener, Screening Committee much less by any
other representative of MOC also takes away the very ground
beneath yet another argument put-forth by Ld. Counsels for accused
public servants that in the Screening Committee meeting, A-4 H.C.
Gupta, and A-5 K.S. Kropha, despite being Chairman, Screening
Committee and Member Convener, Screening Committee,
respectively, were having no special powers or status and were like
any other member of Screening Committee only. Had it been so then there was no reason as to why both
A-4 H.C. Gupta and A-5 K.S. Kropha, did not sign the
recommendation sheets qua any of the coal blocks situated in any
state. In fact the overall facts and circumstances suggest that MOC
being the Nodal Ministry with respect to allocation of coal blocks
situated in the country was in fact having a special status in the entire
process. Even though the purpose of constituting the Screening
Committee was to know the views of all stakeholders at one single
platform and thereafter to expedite the entire process but irrespective
of the aforesaid purpose for which Screening Committee was
constituted, it is clear that the MOC Officers were enjoying a special

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 352 of 467
 status in the meeting being representatives of the nodal Ministry. Moreover was it not the duty of A-4 H.C. Gupta being
Chairman of the meeting and of A-5 K.S. Kropha, being the Member-
Convener to ensure that the proceedings of Screening Committee
takes place in accordance with all rules and regulations and that the
guidelines regulating the exercise of discretion by Screening
Committee are duly followed and complied with. It has also come on
record that the various recommendation sheets were filled by A-6
K.C. Samria himself before members signed them so A-6 K.C.
Samria can not disown his responsibility towards ensuring that the
recommendation sheets are duly signed by all members present
including that of MOC. Since applications were received in the name
of Director CA-I Section so A-6 K.C. Samria being an officer of MOC
holding a responsible position in MOC and rather forming a crucial
link in the chain connecting MOC and the Screening Committee so he
can not simply disown his responsibility by shifting his responsibility
qua the working of Screening Committee upon A-4 H.C. Gupta and A-
5 K.S. Kropha and in MOC upon CA-I Section officials. His role was
distinctly marked by MOC itself as his office was identified as the first
place of contact where all the applications form various applicant
companies desirous of seeking allocation of captive coal blocks were
to be received and further processed. Moreover he was also the
Director in-charge of CA-I Section in MOC and which section used to
deal with coal block allocation matters. 433. Thus if in the light of aforesaid discussion deposition of PW- CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 353 of 467
 12 N.R. Dash, PW-14 Shashi Ranjan Kumar, DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe
and DW-6 Shivraj Singh is seen then it is found that the
recommendations made by the Screening Committee and especially
as made qua Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of M/s VMPL can
not be stated to be unanimous in any manner. PW-12 N.R. Dash stated that during the Screening
Committee meeting no methodology was adopted to decide the
interse priority or interse merits of the applicant companies. He also
deposed that neither any point system nor any marking system was
adopted by the Screening Committee for deciding the interse merits
of the applicant companies. He also deposed that discussion was
held in the meeting on the general guidelines only. He also deposed
that during the course of discussion whenever any dissent/objection
was raised by any member qua any given coal block then the final
decision used to be of Secretary, Coal who was chairing the meeting.
Even as regard the compilation chart which was stated to have been
supplied in the initial meeting of 36 th Screening Committee he stated
that the same was a bulky document and was in fact a compilation of
the initial pages of the applications only. In fact PW-12 N.R. Dash while referring to the said
compilation primarily referred to the agenda note prepared by MOC
qua 36th Screening Committee meetings. He also admitted it to be
correct that in his statement u/s 161 Cr.PC, he stated to the IO that
the policy objective of Ministry of Steel was to maximize or increase
production of steel and that giving a coal block to a company which is

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 354 of 467
 in a better category recommended by the Ministry of Steel would
satisfy the policy objectives. He further denied having stated to the IO
that due weight-age was to be also given to the recommendations of
the state governments and stated that he in fact had stated to the IO
that recommendations of the state governments were also discussed
in the Screening Committee meeting. He also stated that during the
course of discussion objections were raised on behalf of Ministry of
Steel even though no written dissent note was given. In fact the said
statement of his was not even controverted by way of putting any
suggestion to the contrary. 434. Similarly PW-14 Shashi Ranjan Kumar who was representing
DIPP in the Screening Committee meeting stated that though he had
put forward in the meeting, the recommendations of DIPP as were
already sent to MOC and also admitted having signed the
recommendations sheets but stated that he distinctly remember that
in the said meeting no decision was arrived at. He also deposed that
no marking system or point system was adopted to be assigned to
any given factor and even no methodology was explained to the
members as to on what basis the Screening Committee shall arrive at
its decision. He also deposed that in none of the meetings of 36 th
Screening Committee meeting no interse priority chart or interse merit
chart or comparative chart or data base which could have helped in
assessing the interse priority/merit of the applicant companies was
supplied to the members. He also deposed that the chairman of the
Committee i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta was having the final say in the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 355 of 467
 meeting. In his cross-examination also he reiterated that in his
statement u/s 161 Cr.PC he had stated to the IO that no exact
mathematical modeling was adopted for arriving at a decision and
meaning thereby that no eligibility criteria was spelled out. In his
cross-examination he also deposed that in his statement u/s 161 Cr.PC he had stated to the IO that there were conflicting opinions in
the meeting and the reconciliation of the views was done by the
MOC. He further stated that though in view of conflicting opinions, the
common view point could not have been arrived by reconciliation and
thus the final decision was to be taken by MOC. He also deposed that
in order to arrive at a common point of view there ought to be some
measurable criteria on which various applicant companies would
have been ranked. He further stated that if difference of opinion
continued in the meeting amongst members then MOC has to arrive
at a final decision and the views of the administrative departments
could not be binding. 435. In fact DW-6 Shivraj Singh (examined by A-4 H.C. Gupta in
his defence) in his deposition stated that while some decisions qua
allocation of few coal blocks in favour of certain companies were
unanimous but other decisions were taken by way of broad
consensus. He stated that in all such cases where there was a
difference of views/opinion between State Government
representatives and the representatives of administrative Ministry
then discussion used to take place and Chairman Screening
Committee used to announce the final decision based on broad

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 356 of 467
 consensus. He specifically denied that all the decisions taken in the
Screening Committee meeting were unanimous. 436. DW-6 Shivraj Singh also stated in his cross-examination
conducted by Ld. Sr. P.P. that in the meeting during the course of
discussion differing views were expressed by the members present in
as much as Central Government representatives were saying that a
given coal block be allocated to a company(ies) but the state
representatives were saying that it be allocated to a company(ies)
proposing to establish their projects in their states. He however
admitted that in the minutes no such differing views were mentioned
though the concern raised by the state government representatives
was duly recorded in the minutes. He also admitted that in the
meeting no marking system to be assigned to any given applicant
company was adopted and even no interse priority chart/interse data
base which could show as to which of the applicant company was
better placed for being recommended for allocation of a given coal
block was supplied. 437. On similar lines is the deposition of DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe,
the representative of State Government of West Bengal who also was
examined on behalf of A-4 H.C. Gupta. In his deposition he also
stated that during the course of discussion he had put the
views/recommendations of Government of West Bengal qua Moira-
Madhujore coal block and the Ministry of Steel had put forward its
own views/recommendations. He further stated subsequently that the
summed up recommendations of the Screening Committee were

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 357 of 467
 recorded. He also deposed that after hearing the concerned
representatives qua every coal block, the Chairman used to tell as to
what is the final recommendation being made by the Screening
Committee. In his cross-examination as was conducted by Ld.
Counsel for A-5 K.S. Kropha he in answer to a specific question put
to him stated that though the recommendations can certainly be
termed as recommendations of Screening Committee but to say that
the said recommendations were unanimous or consensus based will
not be proper. Thereafter in his cross-examination as was conducted
by Ld. Sr. P.P. he stated that during the course of meeting held on
03.07.08 no interse priority chart or interse merit chart or interse data
chart or any database was provided to the members of Screening
Committee from which it could be ascertained as to which of the
applicant company was better placed. He also admitted it to be
correct that during the course of meeting no document was supplied
to members of Screening Committee from which either the suitability
of the block to the requirement of the end use plant, or techno-
economic viability of the project or level of progress for setting up of
end use project by applicant or track record and financial strength of
the company could be ascertained. He also stated that no
recommendation of Ministry of Steel was even supplied to members
of Screening Committee either before or during the course of meeting
held on 03.07.08. He further admitted having stated to the IO in his
statement u/s 161 Cr.PC the following facts: G (viii) Processing of minutes of 36 th Screening Committee
meeting in Ministry of Coal and in PMO leading to approval
of the recommendations by Prime Minister as Minister of
Coal. 442. As already mentioned the minutes Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) of 36 th
Screening Committee were subsequently prepared in MOC in such a
cryptic manner that nothing is ascertainable as to what all discussion
or views/opinions were expressed by different members in the
screening committee meeting. However as earlier also mentioned
under the Transaction of Business Rules, 1961 it was the
responsibility of Secretary of concerned ministry to reproduce the
views/opinions expressed by other ministries whose work is being
impacted by the issues being considered by the Nodal Ministry.
Mentioning of such views/opinions of all concerned
departments/ministries or that of State Governments could only have
facilitated the Minister In-charge who in the present case was
incidentally the Prime Minister himself to take an objective decision
as to whether the matter requires further consideration or in view of
conflicting views/opinions of certain ministries or State Governments,

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 360 of 467
 it requires to be referred to Cabinet or to any of its Committees for
appropriate decision, or not. Not only the minutes were completely
silent about any such views/opinions expressed by the members but
even it has been already discussed and demonstrated at length that
the same were even not correctly recorded. The deposition of not
only prosecution witnesses but that of defence witnesses examined
on behalf of accused public servants themselves amply support the
aforesaid conclusion. However, subsequently when the minutes were
prepared and processed in MOC vide a detailed note dated
10.07.2008 Ex. PW1/M-1 (D-11) of CA-1 Section then the same got
routed through the desk of Sh. R.N. Singh Section Officer, PW 1 Sh.
V.S. Rana Under Secretary, CA-1 Section, A-6 K.C. Samria Dy.
Secretary, CA-1 Section and A-5 K.S. Kropha Joint Secretary (Coal)
before they came to the desk of A-4 H.C. Gupta Secretary (Coal),
who also was the Chairman, Screening Committee. Thereafter vide a
detailed note dated 14.07.2008 Ex. PW 1/M-2 (D-11) A-4 H.C. Gupta
not only approved the minutes but also forwarded the same with
recommendations of Screening Committee to Prime Minister as
Minister of Coal through the desk of Minister of State for Coal. The
file thereafter got cleared from the desk of Minister of State for coal
on 14.07.2008 itself. Subsequently when the file was received in
PMO then the same was processed by Sh. Ashish Gupta, Director
PMO vide his detailed note dated 16.07.2008 [available at note sheet
pages 52-58 being part of Ex. PW 10/B (colly) in file Ex. P-34 (colly)
(D-11)]. The said note primarily reproduced the notings of MOC while
putting up the file to Joint Secretary PMO i.e. PW 10 Ms. Vini

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 361 of 467
 Mahajan. The note sheet page 58-59 of the file of PMO further shows
that PW 10 Ms. Vini Mahajan thereafter processed the matter vide
her detailed note dated 16.07.2008 and submitted the file to Principal
Secretary to PMO Sh. T.K.A. Nair. Thereafter, Sh. T.K.A. Nair further
forwarded the file to Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh on
16.07.2008 itself and who approved the recommendations of the
Screening Committee on 17.07.2008 while approving the note of M/s
Vini Mahajan. Accordingly the approval so granted by the Prime
Minister as Minister of Coal was conveyed to MOC by Sh. Ashish
Gupta vide ID note dated 21.07.2008 Ex. PW 10/C. 443. However, a perusal of the note dated 16.07.2008 put up by
PW 10 Ms. Vini Mahajan shows that on 16.07.2008 Principal
Secretary to Prime Minister had discussed the matter with Coal
Secretary and Steel Secretary and wherein they confirmed that the
proposal is based strictly on the merits of the applicants, including the
recommendations of State Governments where the blocks are
located. The issue regarding modification of Moira-Madhujore Coal
Block was also discussed in the said meeting. It was pursuant to the
said discussion that the matter was processed in PMO for approval
from Prime Minister as Minister of Coal. 444. Thus if the processing of recommendations of Screening
Committee initially in MOC and subsequently in PMO is considered in
the light of aforesaid notings then it is found that not only while
recording the minutes Ex. PW 1/L (colly) (D-11) a conscious effort
was made by accused MOC officers to not to mention the reasons or

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 362 of 467
 process adopted for recommending company M/s VMPL for allocation
of Moira-Madhujore Coal Block but even in the meeting held in PMO
with Principal Secretary to Prime Minister it was reiterated by A-4
H.C. Gupta that proposals are based strictly on the merits of the
applicants including the recommendations of the State Governments
where the blocks are located. Thus when statement made by A-4
H.C. Gupta in the meeting held by Principal Secretary to Prime
Minister is seen and examined in the light of over all facts and
circumstances of the present case as have been discussed above,
than the falsity in the said claims is clearly evident. It was nowhere
disclosed either in the minutes or in the meeting at PMO that State
Government of West Bengal where the coal block in question was
situated had never recommended company M/s VMPL for allocation
of any coal block. Similarly, it was also not disclosed as is now being
claimed during the course of trial that the said recommendation was
primarily on the basis of recommendations of Ministry of Steel. It was
also nowhere disclosed that State Government of Bihar was not
invited to the Screening Committee meetings and that even
comments were also not received from Government of Bihar which
could be considered by the Screening Committee. As earlier also
mentioned the merits of claims of applicant companies and especially
that of A-1 M/s VMPL is also not ascertainable from any of the
records prepared at the relevant time, be that of Screening
Committee or as were prepared in MOC. The process or procedure, if
any adopted in the meeting also does not stands reflected from any
such proceedings. In fact when it was claimed by A-4 H.C. Gupta in

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 363 of 467
 the meeting at PMO that the proposal is based strictly on merits then
as a natural corollary it pre-supposes that the merits of any given
applicant company was compared vis-a-vis the claims of other
competing applicant companies. It was in this regard only that the
interse priority guidelines were issued by MOC. Thus the word "Merit"
in itself signifies that same comparative analysis was made amongst
the competing applicant companies. However as already discussed
that even till today during the course of trial no such comparative
merits in favour of company M/s VMPL is ascertainable from the
records. It has also been already discussed and demonstrated at
length that in the 1 ½ hour long meeting which took place on
03.07.2008 it was impossible for any Committee much less the
Screening Committee comprising of representatives of various
Administrative Ministries and State Governments to assess the
comparative merits of any applicant company [There were 674
companies under consideration for 23 coal blocks.] qua any given
coal block from amongst various competing applicant companies that
too when no inter se priority chart or inter se merit chart was prepared
by MOC prior to the said meeting. The bald submissions made by the
accused MOC officers that such an assessment was carried out
cannot be believed even for the sake of preponderance of
probabilities. 445. In this regard it would be apt to refer to some observations of
Hon'ble Supreme Court as were made in para 38-41 in the case Noida Entrepreneurs Association Vs. Noida and others (2011) 6

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 364 of 467
 SCC 508 in almost similar circumstances. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 365 of 467 446. It has been however argued on behalf of A-4 H.C. Gupta that
Secretary (Steel) had also affirmed in the said meeting that all the
decisions were taken on merits. It was argued that since Secretary
(Steel) himself was not present in the Screening Committee meeting
held on 03.07.2008 so Sh. U.P. Singh, Joint Secretary (Steel) and
PW 12 N.R. Dash, Director, Ministry of Steel who were present in the
meeting must have so conveyed to Secretary (Steel) and on the basis
of such a briefing only he must have stated in the meeting held in
PMO that the decisions are based on merits. 447. In this regard, it would be suffice to state that since Secretary
(Steel) himself was not present in the meeting and when it has been
clearly stated by the witnesses during the course of present trial that
during the course of meeting held on 03.07.2008 they had simply put
forth recommendations of their respective departments as were
already communicated to MOC and thereafter the final decision was
announced by Secretary (Coal) so it is quite obvious that members of
Screening Committee had no reason at that time to believe that the
final decisions of Screening Committee as were being announced by
Secretary (Coal) were not based on merits of the applicant
companies. This belief further gets reinforced since the
recommendations of various State Governments or Administrative
Ministries were available only with MOC apart from that with
representatives of respective entities and the said recommendations
were never shared by MOC with the other members of Screening
Committee. Thus when various members of Screening Committee be

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 366 of 467
 that representatives of different State Governments or that of
Administrative Ministries were having no access to the
recommendations made by other entities so there was also no way
for them to know as to in favour of which companies
recommendations have been made by such other entities. They thus
had no reasons to disbelieve the Ministry of Coal officers that the final
decisions being announced by them is not on the basis of merits of
the applicant companies. Infact from the over all facts and
circumstances of the case as have been discussed above, it is also
clear that except for the general discussion which took place in the
Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.2008 the
representatives of various entities merely reiterated their respective
recommendations and no other discussion qua any of the factors on
the basis of which interse priority amongst competing applicant
companies was to be arrived at, actually took place. Thus having no
reason to disbelieve the bonefides of MOC officers, the
representatives of Ministry of Steel must have conveyed to Secretary
(Steel) that the decisions are based on merits of the applicant
companies. 448. The aforesaid facts also needs to be viewed in the light of yet
another circumstance. Admittedly the minutes of 36 th Screening
Committee meeting were prepared subsequently in MOC. It is also
not disputed that the said minutes before they were forwarded by A-4
H.C. Gupta for approval from Prime Minister as Minister of Coal were
never circulated to the members of Screening Committee for

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 367 of 467
 confirmation. Thus if at all their could have been any reason for the
members of Screening Committee to raise any dissenting view that
their views/opinions expressed in the meeting have not been
recorded or correctly recorded in the meeting, then the said situation
never came prior to approval of the recommendations of Screening
Committee by Prime Minister as Minister of Coal. Certainly, after the
recommendations were got approved from Prime Minister as Minister
of Coal there was no occasion left to representatives of various State
Governments or Administrative Ministries to express doubt if any was
entertained by them. Thus nothing can be read against the case of
prosecution or in favour of accused persons from the mere statement
made by Secretary, Steel in the meeting held by Principal Secretary
to Prime Minister that the proposals are based on merits of the
applicant companies and especially when the said meeting took place
before the minutes of the Screening Committee were sent to Ministry
of Steel by MOC. 449. Infact, A-4 H.C. Gupta knew very well that Prime Minister as
Minister In-charge was to act upon the recommendations of the
Screening Committee only. The Screening Committee, as earlier also
discussed, was in fact constituted to screen all the proposals and to
thereafter make the recommendations objectively and in a
transparent manner. Moreover, as Secretary (Coal) A-4 H.C. Gupta
was not only the Administrative head of the Ministry but was also the
Principal Advisor of the Minister-in-charge on all matters of Policy and
Administration within his ministry and thus the responsibility on the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 368 of 467
 part of A-4 H.C. Gupta was all the more onerous in ensuring that
complete and correct facts are placed before Prime Minister as
Minister In-charge. There was certainly no apparent reason for Prime
Minister as Minister In-charge to disbelieve the minutes or
recommendations made by 36th Screening Committee and as were
forwarded to PMO by A-4 H.C. Gupta and that too when PW 10 Ms.
Vini Mahajan had stated in her note dated 16.07.2008 that the
Principal Secretary to Prime Minister has discussed the matter with
Secretary Coal and Secretary Steel and they stated that the
recommendations are strictly based on merits of the applicants and
the recommendations of State Governments where coal blocks in
question are located. Prime Minister had thus no reasons to doubt
that the said minutes do not contain true and correct facts. 450. Thus from the aforesaid discussion, it is clear that A-4 H.C.
Gupta malafidely withheld true and correct facts from the Prime
Minister as Minister In-charge by first not recording them in the
minutes of Screening Committee meeting and later on by
representing in the meeting held in PMO that all the proposals are
based strictly on the merits of applicants including the
recommendations of the State Governments where the blocks are
located. 451. At this stage yet another important issue requires discussion
i.e. as to for which end use project of company M/s VMPL, 36 th
Screening Committee had actually recommended allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block. This issue requires discussion since in the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 369 of 467
 Screening Committee recommendations as were subsequently
approved by Prime Minister as Minister of Coal followed by issuance
of offer letter/option letter and the subsequent execution of a joint
venture agreement between the joint allocateee companies, it was
stated that company M/s VMPL has been recommended for allocation
of Moira-Madhujore coal block for its proposed integrated steel plant
at Bihar. However strangely enough the final allocation letter
subsequently issued by MOC stated that the Moira-Madhujore coal
block has been allocated to company M/s VMPL for its proposed
plant at Bihar and also for its existing plant at Purulia West Bengal. Thus I now intend to discuss the said issue, for it will
reflect not only the perfunctory nature of working of MOC officers but
also the malafide intention of A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria in
the entire processing. A discussion of the aforesaid issue in fact is
very crucial as the same is illustrative of the object of the criminal
conspiracy as was hatched by the private parties involved and
wherein they subsequently roped in the MOC officers. My subsequent
discussion will amply prove the aforesaid conclusion beyond
shadows of all reasonable doubts. G (ix) Whether Company A-1 M/s VMPL was recommended
for allocation of Moira-Madhujore Coal Block by 36 th
Screening Committee only for its proposed iron and steel
project at Bihar or also for its existing plant at West Bengal. 452. Ld. Counsels for the accused public servants have strongly
relied upon the deposition of PW-12 N.R. Dash, the officer of Ministry

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 370 of 467
 of Steel who was present in the Screening Committee meeting held
on 03.07.08 while arguing that the Screening Committee had actually
recommended M/s VMPL both for its plant at Bihar and also at West
Bengal. It was pointed out that in his cross-examination, PW-12 N.R.
Dash admitted it to be correct that while sending its recommendations
to MOC, the Ministry of Steel had calculated the coal requirement of
the company M/s VMPL considering its proposed capacity at Bihar
and the existing capacity at West Bengal also. He also admitted
having stated the following answer to the questions put by the IO in
his statement u/s 161 Cr.PC dated 20.11.2014 recorded during the
course of investigation: 453. It was further submitted by Ld. Counsels for accused public
servants that PW-1 V.S. Rana also stated in his deposition that
though the existing plant of company M/s VMPL at Purulia, West
Bengal was mentioned in the allocation letter but in the initial offer
letter/option letter the same was inadvertently left out to be
mentioned. It was also submitted by Ld. Defence Counsel that since
this mistake in the option letter was never brought to their notice by
CA-I Section officials so it was only during the course of investigation
of the present case that it came to their notice that in the option
letter/offer letter initially issued to A-1 M/s VMPL and to the other five
(5) joint allocatee companies, the existing plant of company M/s
VMPL at Purulia West Bengal was not mentioned. It has been further
submitted that even otherwise allocation of coal block for the existing

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 372 of 467
 plant at Purulia West Bengal resulted in withdrawal of linkage of coal
already granted to the company and thus instead of extending any
benefit, the company was rather put to a loss on account of
withdrawal of its existing linkage. It was thus submitted that no
adverse inference much less any element of culpability can be found
in the aforesaid acts of inadvertent mistakes committed by CA-I
Section officials. 454. It was also submitted by Ld. Counsel for accused public
servants that the application of M/s VMPL could not have been
considered in isolation as being the application submitted in the
prescribed format only but it had to read along with all the documents
annexed with it. It was thus submitted that PW 12 N.R. Dash has
stated that in the TEFR available with the application the location of
existing plant at West Bengal was mentioned even though details
thereof were not mentioned in the application form itself. It was also
submitted that if share of coal of each of the six joint allocattee
companies is considered than it is found that the share of M/s VMPL
would have been equal to that of other five joint allocattee companies
only if its requirement of coal qua its existing plant at West Bengal
and that of its proposed plant at Bihar is considered together,
otherwise the share of M/s VMPL would have been much higher than
that of other five joint allocattee companies. It was thus submitted that the Screening Committee had
accordingly taken a conscious decision after considering all the
relevant aspects. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 373 of 467 455. On the other hand Ld. Sr. P.P. strongly opposed the aforesaid
submissions stating that if at all the Screening Committee had
recommended M/s VMPL for allocation of a captive coal block both
for its existing plant at Purulia West Bengal and also for its proposed
integrated steel plant at Bihar then the minutes would have stated
so. It was also submitted that even the Prime Minister as Minister of
Coal had approved allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block to
company A-1 M/s VMPL for its plant at Bihar only and so any
subsequent addition of Bengal plant in the allocation letter was clearly
an act reflecting malafides on the part of accused public servants as
neither the allocation of captive coal block for the existing plant at
Purulia West Bengal was recommended by the Screening Committee
nor was approved by the Prime Minister as Minister of Coal and in
fact company M/s VMPL had also not applied for the same in its
application. My discussion 456. At the outset, I may state that though the submissions made
by Ld. Counsels for the accused persons appears to be forceful by
projecting it to be a case of certain inadvertent mistakes having been
committed by the officials/officers of MOC but a close study of the
entire process so undertaken by the Screening Committee and MOC
will clearly show that it was actually not so. In fact the addition of the
plant at Purulia West Bengal in the final allocation letter appears to be
a conscious decision taken post Screening Committee meeting so as

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 374 of 467
 to extend undue benefit to company M/s VMPL. As earlier also
stated, it may be true that officials of CA-I Section ought to have also
pointed out the aforesaid fact while putting up the relevant note along
with draft allocation letter but I may once again state that since in the
present trial the role of A-4 H.C. Gupta, the then Secretary, Coal and
Chairman, Screening Committee, A-5 K.S. Kropha, Joint Secretary,
Coal and Member Convener, Screening Committee and A-6 K.C.
Samria, Deputy Secretary/Director, CA-1 Ministry of Coal is only
being examined so whether the CA-I Section officials including PW-1
V.S. Rana were part of any such collusive act with the senior officers
or not may be a matter of some separate proceedings where their
role or various acts of omission and commission committed by them
will be examined from the point of view of culpability or otherwise. 457. However before entering into any further discussion on the
aforesaid aspect, it will be appropriate to reiterate certain factual
aspects of the case. As earlier mentioned the 36th Screening Committee in its
final meeting held on 03.07.08 had recommended company M/s
VMPL for joint allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block alongwith 5
other companies. The recommendation sheets Ex. PW 12/D signed
by various members of the Screening Committee clearly mentioned
that M/s VMPL has been recommended for allocation of a captive
coal block for its end use plant at Bihar. Accordingly the minutes Ex.
PW 1/L (Colly) (D-11) subsequently prepared in MOC also stated so.
After getting routed through the desk of PW-1 V.S. Rana, A-6 K.C.

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 375 of 467
 Samria and A-5 K.S. Kropha, the minutes reached the desk of A-4
H.C. Gupta. Thereafter vide note dated 14.07.2008 Ex. PW 1/M-2 (D- 11), A-4 H.C. Gupta forwarded the minutes Ex. PW 1/L (Colly) to
Prime Minister as Minister of Coal through Minister of State for Coal.
Subsequently the Prime Minister as Minister of Coal approved the
recommendations of 36th Screening Committee qua various coal
blocks including Moira-Madhujore coal block subject to the condition
that allocation/option letters to those allocatee companies who have
been earlier also allocated coal blocks, be issued only after reviewing
their performance in the said earlier allocated coal blocks. 458. Accordingly it was found in MOC that one of the joint
allocatee company of Moira-Madhujore coal block namely M/s
Adhunik Corporation Limited (Adhunik Group) was earlier also
allocated certain coal blocks and its performance qua them is not
satisfactory. CA-I Section accordingly put up a note dated 18.08.2008
in this regard. Thereafter a number of proceedings took place in MOC
including a meeting held in the office chamber of Minister of State for
coal to review the performance of such recommended companies
who were earlier also allocated certain coal blocks. (Discussion of the said proceedings is not required for the
purposes of deciding the present issue and accordingly the same is
not being referred to over here.). A meeting also took place in the office chamber of A-5

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 376 of 467
 K.S. Kropha on 04.07.08 to discuss about the share to be allocated to
such joint allocatee companies. The circumstances relating to said
meeting shall be however discussed by me at a slightly later stage. 459. Finally on 27.05.2009 a joint allocation letter Ex. PW 1/M-5
was issued to all the six joint allocatee companies of Moira-
Madhujore coal block including A-1 M/s VMPL. In the said letter also
the location of the end use plant for which the company M/s VMPL
was recommended for allocation of a captive coal block was
mentioned as Bihar. The capacity of end use plant was however
mentioned as 0.73 MTPA. Vide the said joint allocation letter, the six
joint allocatee companies were called upon to exercise one of the
three options as to how they intend to mine the coal block in question.
Accordingly vide letter dated 23.06.2009 Ex. PW 1/M-6, the six joint
allocatee companies opted for "option 1" stating that they intend to
mine the coal block together after forming a joint venture company of
all the six joint allocatee companies. However they sought time to
submit the joint venture agreement in another period of 60 days.
Subsequently on 24.08.2009 a reminder Ex. PW 1/M-7 was again
sent to all the six joint allocatee companies by PW-1 V.S. Rana
calling upon them to submit the joint venture agreement within seven
days. Accordingly on 24.08.2009, the six joint allocatee companies
vide letter Ex. PW 1/M-8 (Colly) submitted a joint venture agreement
dated 25.08.2009 to MOC. A perusal of said joint venture agreement
shows that the letter dated 27.05.2009 Ex. PW 1/M-5 offering joint
allocation of the coal block to the six companies was made an

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 377 of 467
 integral part of the joint venture agreement and copy thereof was also
annexed as Annexure A. MOC accordingly accepted the said joint
venture agreement and proceeded to act upon it. Thus it is clear from
the said joint venture agreement entered into by the companies and
subsequently accepted by MOC that M/s VMPL was recommended
for allocation of a captive coal block for its end use plant at Bihar only
and the same was also duly accepted to by the company M/s VMPL
also. 460. Before proceeding further it will be worthwhile to mention that
by the time the aforesaid joint offer letter/option letter dated
27.05.2009 or came to be issued, A-4 H.C. Gupta had already retired
from Government Service. The file however on all these occasions
did move through the desk of A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria
beside also getting approved from the successor of A-4 H.C. Gupta,
namely Sh. C. Balakrishnan, the then Secretary Coal. 461. Subsequent to receipt of Joint Venture Agreement some
further proceedings took place in MOC, details of which are not
relevant over here and finally a joint allocation letter dated 06.10.2009
Ex. PW 1/M-9 was issued. In the said joint allocation letter dated
06.10.2009 Ex. PW 1/M-9 (Colly) it was mentioned that M/s VMPL
has been recommended for their proposed end use plant at
Begusarai Bihar and also for its existing plant at Purulia West Bengal.
The end use plant capacity was again stated to be 0.73 MTPA. 462. Thus from a bare perusal of the aforesaid record and the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 378 of 467
 corresponding proceedings, it is however clear that M/s VMPL was
recommended by 36th Screening Committee in its meeting held on
03.07.08 for its proposed integrated steel plant at Bihar only. It was
that very recommendation which was processed in MOC and finally
was approved by Prime Minister as Minister of Coal. Subsequently
the allocation letter dated 27.05.2009 was also issued for the
proposed end use plant of the company at Bihar only. The joint
Venture Agreement entered into by the six joint allocatee companies
including M/s VMPL also mentioned the location of the plant for which
captive coal block was allotted as Bihar only. It was the same joint
venture agreement which was accepted by MOC and was further
processed. However for reasons best known to MOC officers
including A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria, the final allocation
letter dated 06.10.2009 stated the location of end use plant of
company M/s VMPL to be at Bihar and also at West Bengal. Thus
addition of West Bengal plant in the final allocation letter was clearly
beyond the mandate given by the Screening Committee or in other
words was clearly beyond the recommendations of Screening
Committee and as were subsequently approved by Prime Minister as
Minister of Coal. From the aforesaid proceedings, it is crystal clear
that the addition of Bengal plant was not at any point of time
approved by the Prime Minister as Minister of Coal much less
recommended by the Screening Committee. However what is
interesting to note is that the accused persons have not claimed that
addition of West Bengal plant in the final allocation letter was an
inadvertent error but what has been argued is that its omission in the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 379 of 467
 initial option letter/offer letter dated 27.05.2009 was an inadvertent
omission. It has been also argued that CA-I Section officials never
brought this omission to their notice and they also believed that CA-I
Section officials must have done their work properly while processing
the file for issuance of final allocation letter. 463. The natural consequence of the aforesaid line of argument as
has been put-forth on behalf of accused public servants is that the
36th Screening Committee in its meeting held on 03.07.08 had rather
recommended company M/s VMPL for allocation of a captive coal
block for its proposed integrated steel plant at Bihar and also for its
existing plant at West Bengal. It also implies that the recommendation
sheet Ex. PW 12/D so prepared at the time of Screening Committee
meeting and which was allegedly carrying signatures of members of
Screening Committee was thus not containing correct facts or in other
words was wrongly prepared as it did not mention the existing plant of
the company at Bengal at all. Similarly the processing of the said
minutes and final approval of the same by Prime Minister as Minister
of Coal was also wrong as what was approved was the allocation of
captive coal block for proposed integrated steel plant at Begusarai,
Bihar and not for the existing plant at West Bengal. 464. Thus, if in the light of aforesaid arguments of Ld. Counsels for
accused public servants, the deposition of PW-12 N.R. Dash is
considered then it appears that though discussion about West Bengal
plant might have taken place in the Screening Committee meeting but
the Screening Committee in its wisdom chose not to recommend

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 380 of 467
 company M/s VMPL for its existing plant at West Bengal. Moreover,
PW-12 N.R. Dash in his deposition also stated that Ministry of Steel
had chosen to point out the existing capacity of the company West
Bengal being 0.13 MTPA and the proposed capacity as 0.6 MTPA in
its communication dated 06.12.2007, since they wanted to place all
the facts before the Screening Committee clearly. 465. At this stage, I may also mention and as earlier also
discussed while discussing the role of private parties, the TEFR
which was referred to by Ministry of Steel while making its
recommendations in fact did not in any manner pertain to the
proposed integrated steel plant, the details of which were mentioned
in the application Ex. P-96 (colly) (D-8). In fact during the
investigation of the present case a number of TEFR and such like
reports were collected and placed on record by the IO but I may once
again state that except for collecting and placing them on record no
investigation or analysis of the same was carried out so as to
ascertain as to whether they are relevant to the facts in issue of the
present case in any manner or not. One such TEFR is available in
document D-90 and a bare perusal of the same shows that the same
talks of 4 X 500 TPD kilns and 100 MW power plant at Bihar. It further
shows that the company was not yet allocated any land much less
200 acres. Thus clearly the said TEFR which is part of document Ex.
P-83 (Colly) (D-90) did not pertain to the application under
consideration since in the application it was stated that the company
has already been allocated 300 acres of land and the plant is

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 381 of 467
 proposed to be of the capacity 1.1 MTPA. 466. Similarly one other TEFR available in document Ex. P-79
(Colly) (D-86) pertains to a proposed power plant of 2000 MW.
Clearly the said TEFR did not pertain to the present application Ex. P-
96 (Colly) (D-8) as the nature of proposed end use project mentioned
in the application was an integrated steel plant. Similarly another
TEFR available in D-4 i.e. in the file of Government of Bihar Ex. P-3
(Colly) also pertains to a project of 4 X 500 TPD kilns and 100 MW
power plant. It further states that 200 acres of land will be acquired.
Thus the said TEFR also did not pertain to the proposed end use
plant whose details were mentioned in the application Ex. P-96
(Colly) (D-8). Similarly the project report available in D-4 also
pertained to a power plant of 2 X 250 MW and thus once again is not
relevant to the matter under consideration over here. 467. Coming now to the presentations made by A-2 Vikash Patni, I
may state that though one such presentation is available in Ex. P-28
(colly) (D-33) and has been referred to by the accused persons as
being the presentation made before the Screening Committee but a
perusal of the same shows that the same is also not relevant to the
matter in issue over there. The said presentation talks of a proposed
sponge iron plant of 65000 TPA under the expansion plan at Purulia
West Bengal and another 6,50,000 TPA proposed plant of sponge
iron at Begusarai, Bihar. Clearly the said presentation also did not
relate to the application Ex. P-95 (Colly) (D-8) since the application or
the feed back form submitted by the company did not talk of any such

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 382 of 467
 plant at West Bengal. As regard the presentation available in Ex. P-
77 (Colly) (D-84), I may state that the said presentation talks of the
proposed sponge iron plant at Jharkhand and thus once again the
same does not co-relate with the details of proposed plant mentioned
in the application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8). One other TEFR available in
document Ex. P-78 (Colly) (D-85) pertains to a sponge iron plant of 4
X 500 TPD kilns with 100 MW power plant. It also shows that the land
was yet to be identified for the plant and allotted to the company and
thus the said TEFR also can not co-relate with the details of proposed
plant mentioned in application Ex. P-96 (Colly) (D-8) which stated that
300 Acres of land has already been allotted to the company. 468. Having so discussed the relevancy of various TEFRs
collected by the IO during the course of investigation, I may however
state that the aforesaid entire exercise could have been easily
avoided if proper investigation and conclusion thereof would have
been drawn at the investigation stage itself so as to find as to whether
the any such report in any manner relates to the proposed end use
plant whose details were mentioned in the application Ex. P-96
(Colly) (D-8), or not. It is on account of this kind of vague investigation
carried out by certain investigating officers that the burden of the
Court is increased manifold. The Court has to unnecessarily surf
through various documents even though they have no relevance to
the matter in issue. At the same time on account of voluminous
nature of documents benefit is also taken at times by the accused
persons by creating unnecessary and avoidable doubts or

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 383 of 467
 complications in the trial of the case. 469. Be that as it may. Coming back to the deposition of PW-12
N.R. Dash, I may state that he too has been vague and wavering in
his deposition when he stated that the Ministry of Steel did not
consider the existing capacity of the company at Bengal and
therefore the company was placed in category VI. At the same time
he failed to offer any plausible explanation as to why while calculating
the coal requirement of the company, the existing capacity of the
company at its plant in West Bengal and that of the proposed plant at
Bihar were taken into consideration. It is also beyond comprehension
as to when the proposed capacity of the end use project was stated
as 1.1 MTPA by the company in the application then under what
circumstances the TEFR which only talk of a plant of the capacity
65000 MTPA was considered and it was not observed that no project
report pertaining to the plant whose details have been mentioned in
the application has been annexed with the application or that the
TEFR available with them did not pertain to the end use plant whose
details have been mentioned in the application by the company. As
earlier also observed the working of various Ministries including that
of Ministry of Steel in the coal block allocation process has not been
completely above board. The reasons today are difficult to ascertain
and especially when it is found that there has been no intention on
the part of the investigating agency to carry out a proper investigation
of the matter. However on account of ample documentary evidence
available before this Court, I do not find any reason to discard away

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 384 of 467
 the prosecution case simply on the basis of vague deposition of some
of the prosecution witnesses. The Court can not permit that on
account of such nature of defective/deficient investigation carried out
by the investigating agency or on account of vague and self
contradictory deposition of certain prosecution witnesses, the entire
criminal justice administration system is put to ransom. In such type
of cases, the duty of the Court becomes more onerous so as to suffle
through the voluminous documentary evidence available on record in
order to ascertain as to whether the allegations against the accused
persons stands proved beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts or
not. 470. Coming back to the issue of location of end use plant of
company M/s VMPL for which the captive coal block in question was
allocated, I may state that even the company M/s VMPL as earlier
also mentioned and discussed at length in its application Ex. P-96
(Colly) (D-8) had stated the location of its proposed end use plant for
which allocation of captive coal block was sought for at Begusarai
Bihar only. The application was completely silent as regard the
existing plant of the company at West Bengal. Though the application
did mention the existing capacity of the company being 0.13 MTPA
but while mentioning the details of the proposed end use plant, the
location was only mentioned as Begusarai, Bihar. Thus we have a
case where the applicant company itself did not apply for allocation of
a captive coal block for its plant at Purulia West Bengal but MOC
officers for reasons best known to them chose to allot a captive coal

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 385 of 467
 block to the company for its proposed end use plant at Purulia West
Bengal. 471. It has been however argued by Ld. Counsel for accused
public servants that the application of the company M/s VMPL should
be read as a whole i.e. along with the documents annexed with it. It
was thus submitted that PW 12 N.R. Dash has admitted that in the
TEFR the company had mentioned about the existing plant at Purulia,
West Bengal. In this regard it would be pertinent to mention that in
the earlier part of the present judgment, I have already discussed and
concluded that no such TEFR or the project report was annexed by
the company with its application. I have also discussed that the TEFR
which was allegedly available with Ministry of Steel also did not
pertain to the proposed end use project whose details were
mentioned in the application Ex. P-96 (colly) (D-8). 472. There is however one other aspect of the matter. It is the
admitted case of the MOC officers that in the Screening Committee
meeting held on 03.07.2008 the agenda note prepared in MOC
comprised of only the application form of various companies and not
the documents annexed with the same. Thus there was no occasion
for the Screening Committee to consider any of the documents which
were annexed with its application by the company M/s VMPL. It is
also not the case of anyone that Ministry of Steel had carried their set
of application of various companies including that of M/s VMPL much
less the documents available with them to the Screening Committee
meeting. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 386 of 467 473. Ld. Counsels for the accused public servants however also
submitted that CA-1 Section officials were present in the Screening
Committee meeting with the complete applications of all the applicant
companies so that the same may be made available to Screening
Committee, if asked for. 474. In this regard it would be suffice to state that it is not the case
of any of the accused MOC officers that any such documents of the
applicant companies much less that of M/s VMPL were referred to in
the Screening Committee meeting. Even otherwise, if the said
documents of M/s VMPL would have been referred to than also as
earlier discussed neither any such TEFR nor any project report was
available alongwith one set of the application of M/s VMPL as was
available with MOC. In fact none of the documents available with the
application of M/s VMPL anywhere mentions about the existing plant
of the company at Purulia, West Bengal. 475. The aforesaid circumstances also throws light on yet one
other aspect. Even if the agenda note which comprised of the
application of company M/s VMPL was seen in the Screening
Committee meeting than a bare perusal of the same would have
highlighted to the accused MOC officers that no Project Report as
was required to be filed along with the application has been filed. I
have already discussed that in the application itself company M/s
VMPL had stated the word "NO" as against the column 21 wherein
information about preparation of DPR (Detailed Project Report) was
to be mentioned. I have also discussed that even in the Form for

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 387 of 467
 Feed Back it was stated that the Project Report is under appraisal.
Thus if during the Screening Committee meeting all such information
furnished by the company in its application form or feed back form
was considered then the MOC officers would have come to know that
no such Project Report has been filed by the company. This fact
ought to have raised the most important and pertinent question in
their mind as to why the incomplete application of M/s VMPL was not
rejected at the threshold itself. It would have taken them back to the
stage as to whether applications were in fact checked for their
completeness and eligibility by CA-1 section or not. Thus this fact
again goes to reinforce the conclusion that senior officers of MOC
were well aware that no checking of applications has been
undertaken in MOC or has not been properly undertaken. The only
course thus open to them was to atleast reject the application in the
Screening Committee meeting itself being not complete. Since the
issue of existing and proposed capacity of the end use plant of M/s
VMPL was allegedly under discussion and the main application form
was silent as regard the existing plant at Purulia, West Bengal so if
the claim of PW 12 N.R. Dash and consequently that of accused
public servants is considered to be true that discussion did take place
about both the existing plant at West Bengal and the proposed plant
at Begusarai, Bihar than it was imperative that the Project Report or
other annexed documents must have been referred to. 476. However, in view of my aforesaid discussion it is clear that
had any such discussion taken place than attention of accused MOC

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 388 of 467
 officers was bound to be drawn to the factum of non-availablility of
any Project Report. The same would have clearly entailed rejection of
the application of M/s VMPL and not its selection. 477. These circumstances thus throw light on the circumstances
as to how the important nationalized natural resources of the country
were handled by accused MOC officers. 478. It is in the light of aforesaid circumstances an important
question arises that if there was some collusion between the public
servants and the private parties involved then what stopped A-1 M/s
VMPL in seeking allocation of the captive coal block for its West
Bengal plant also and on the other hand accused public servants
could have easily mentioned the location of Bengal plant also in the
minutes of Screening Committee meeting itself. The answer to the aforesaid question is very simple. 479. As earlier also mentioned company M/s VMPL had been
seeking allocation of one or the other captive coal blocks from 34th
Screening Committee as well as from 35th Screening Committee also.
Undoubtedly the company had an existing sponge iron plant at
Purulia West Bengal for which it was already having coal linkage.
Since coal is an important raw material for any sponge iron plant and
the cost of coal if purchased from market or available through linkage
from CIL or any of its subsidiaries is certainly much higher than the
cost of coal which a company can obtain from mining the coal on its
own. Accordingly every company engaged in manufacturing of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 389 of 467
 sponge iron plant is desirous of obtaining a captive coal block if the
production cost is to be brought down. Thus having been involved in
the earlier coal block allocation process company A-1 M/s VMPL was
aware that Government of West Bengal was not in favour of
recommending it for allocation of a coal block situated in the State of
West Bengal. The company also knew that the recommendation of
coal bearing state and that of the state where the end use plant for
which allocation of captive coal block is sought for is extremely
important for procuring recommendation from Screening Committee
in its favour. Thus if the existing plant at West Bengal would have
been mentioned in the application then the recommendation of state
of West Bengal would have been relevant not only from the point of
view of being the coal bearing state but also as that of a state where
the end use plant is located. On the other hand on account of smaller
production capacity of the company at Purulia West Bengal plant it
would not have met the criteria laid down by Ministry of Steel even.
One could argue that if false claims were only to be made then the
same could have been made qua the expansion of the existing plant
at West Bengal also but I may state that in those circumstances the
falsity of the claim, if any, made would have come to light of
Screening Committee from the views of representatives of State of
West Bengal in the Screening Committee meeting itself and also from
the comments received from the State Government. It was for this
reason only that representative of State of Bihar was not invited in
any of the five Screening Committee meeting as his presence would
have brought to the notice of Screening Committee that 300 acres of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 390 of 467
 land earlier allotted to company M/s VMPL has since been cancelled.
It was for this reason only no efforts were made to obtain comments
from State of Bihar before proceeding to recommend M/s VMPL for
allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block. 480. It is in this background, if the aforesaid sequence of events is
seen from the point of view of company M/s VMPL then it is found
that on account of cancellation of land earlier allotted to it the
company knew that it was not possible for it to establish any project
much less steel project or power plant in state of Bihar and the
company did not intent to loose hold of the captive coal block
procured by it from 36th Screening Committee for its proposed plant at
Bihar. Accordingly the company ensured that in the final allocation
letter the coal block is shown to have been allocated for its both Bihar
Plant and for West Bengal plant. 481. As regard submissions of Ld. Counsel for accused public
servants that the Screening Committee had in fact recommended
Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL for its plant at
Purulia West Bengal and also at Begusarai Bihar it would be
worthwhile to refer to a letter dated 04.07.2008 Ex. PW 18/C written
by DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe, Advisor Industry, Government of Bihar to
A-5 K.S. Kropha. The said letter was written on the very next day of
the Screening Committee meeting held on 03.07.08 and it mentioned
the details of the companies in West Bengal which were
recommended for allocation by the Screening Committee qua coal
blocks located in West Bengal. A request was thus made for

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 391 of 467
 indicating the shares allotted to each of the said companies so that
necessary information may be transmitted to Department of
Commerce and Industries, Government of West Bengal. For a ready
reference the said letter read as under: With warm regards,
 Yours sincerely

 Sd/- (4/7/08)
 (Bhaskar Khulbe)

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 392 of 467
 Shri K.S. Kropha, IAS
Joint Secretary to Government of India
Ministry of Coal,
Shastri Bhavan,
New Delhi-110001" 482. It has been rightly argued by Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh. Sanjay Kumar
that had M/s VMPL been recommended for allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block for its proposed plant at West Bengal then in
the said communication dated 04.07.08 Ex. PW 18/C, DW-5 Bhaskar
Khulbe would have mentioned the name of M/s VMPL also while
asking for the share to be allotted to it. Certainly the aforesaid
submissions of Ld. Sr. P.P. has force in it. In fact if the answer to
question No. 282 put to all the three accused MOC officers in their
statements u/s 313 Cr.PC is referred to then the aforesaid
submissions of Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh. Sanjay Kumar stands duly
corroborated. The said question and the answers given by the three
accused MOC officers read as under: 483. Thus from the aforesaid answers given by accused MOC
officers themselves in their statement u/s 313 Cr. PC, it is clear that
letter dated 04.07.08 Ex. PW 18/C of DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe
contained the names of only those companies whose end use
projects were located/situated in the state of West Bengal and which
companies were recommended qua the two coal blocks namely
Andal and Moira-Madhujore coal block located in State of West
Bengal. It has been further stated by the accused persons that name
of M/s VMPL was not included in the list as its proposed end use

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 394 of 467
 project was to be located in Bihar. 484. Thus from the overall facts and circumstances of the case
coupled with the documentary record of 36 th Screening Committee
and approval of its recommendations by Prime Minister as Minister of
Coal beside the communication of DW-5 Bhaskar Khulbe dated
04.07.08 Ex. PW 18/C and the subsequent answers given by the
accused persons in their statement u/s 313 Cr.PC it is crystal clear
that the 36th Screening Committee in its meeting held on 03.07.08
had recommended allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block to M/s
VMPL for its proposed end use project at Bihar only. The subsequent
issuance of final allocation letter dated 06.10.2009 to the company
mentioning the names of its existing plant at Purulia West Bengal
also in addition to the proposed plant at Bihar was thus clearly an act
of extending undue benefit to the company M/s VMPL and that too in
clear contravention of all rules and regulations. The aforesaid
circumstances in fact presents a glaring example of A-5 K.S. Kropha
and A-6 K.C. Samria acting in cahoot with the private parties involved
by abusing their official position and extending them undue benefit
and that too without any public interest. 485. For all the aforesaid reasons, the argument put-forth on
behalf of accused public servants that the said discrepancies did not
come to their notice at the time of issuance of allocation letter does
not inspire any confidence at all and is simply a lame excuse now to
cover up their malafide acts. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 395 of 467
 (H) Checking of applications post-approval of
recommendations of Screening Committee by Prime
Minister as Minster of Coal. 486. It was pointed out by Ld. Counsels for the accused persons
that in the order dated 05.08.2015 this Court while disagreeing with
the final conclusion arrived at by the CBI to close the case observed
that even in the selection of Lower Division Clerks in Government of
India where number of applicants is usually too large, the scrutiny or
verification of their testimonials/certificates may not be though carried
out at the initial stage i.e. before permitting them to appear in the
written examination but certainly at a subsequent stage when the
selection process is over but prior to issuance of appointment letters,
the testimonials/certificates of the selected/short listed candidates are
checked. The purpose is only to ensure that no candidate may get
appointment on the basis of fictitious documents and at least their
claims as made in their application be cross-checked and verified
from their certificates. It was however submitted by Ld. Counsels for
the accused persons that the said analogy as is sought to be drawn
by this Court does not apply to the facts and circumstances of the
present case. It was submitted that admittedly MOC had issued
specific guidelines governing allocation of captive coal blocks and the
said guidelines were completely silent about any such scrutiny or
checking of applications post approval of recommendations of
Screening Committee by the Prime Minister as Minister of Coal. It
was thus submitted that introduction of any such criteria now at this
stage of the matter is certainly not permissible under the law and no

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 396 of 467
 liability in this regard can be now fixed upon the accused persons. 487. Though on the face of it the submissions made by Ld.
Counsels for the accused MOC officers appears to be attractive but if
the overall facts and circumstances of the case are seen coupled with
the manner in which the guidelines were modified by the accused
MOC officers by introducing new criteria/steps or were not followed at
all, then it will be found that the analogy sought to be drawn by this
Court at the initial stage itself while rejecting the closure report filed
by CBI applies with full force to the facts and circumstances of the
present case. The reasons are ample and clear. 488. Admittedly the purpose of checking the applications for their
eligibility and completeness as mentioned in the guidelines was only
to ensure that application of no such company which is either not
eligible or whose application is not complete is considered by MOC
much less by the Administrative Ministries or the State Governments
or even by the Screening Committee. It was for this reason only that it
was provided in the guidelines that all such applications should be
rejected at the initial stage of the process itself. It is in these
circumstances the reasons adduced by the officials of MOC on
account of which checking of applications could not be carried out
need to be appreciated. It was submitted that as the applications
were too many i.e. more than 1400 applications and there was acute
shortage of staff in CA-I, Section and also due to lack of technical
knowledge of the matters, CA-I, Section could not carry out the
checking of the applications which were even otherwise voluminous

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 397 of 467
 in nature. Moreover, it also now stands well proved that the present
three accused persons who were senior officers of MOC i.e. A-4 H.C.
Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria were well aware of the
process which was undertaken qua the applications in MOC before
they were placed before the Screening Committee. As already
discussed the three accused MOC officers can not now claim that
they were not aware of the manner in which the applications were
dealt with in MOC. The guidelines as were issued by MOC governing
allocation of captive coal blocks were also admittedly to the
knowledge of all the three accused MOC officers and thus despite
knowing that the guidelines have not been followed in as much as the
applications have not been checked for their eligibility and
completeness but they still did not initiate any action at that stage to
ensure compliance with the guidelines titled "Processing of
Application". It is in these circumstances becomes important to note
that in the guidelines itself it was stated that after the Screening
Committee would make its recommendations then on the basis of
recommendations of the Screening Committee, Ministry of Coal will
determine the allotment. However while forwarding the file to Prime
Minister as Minister of Coal for approval of the recommendations of
the Screening Committee, it was no where mentioned by any of the
MOC officers much less by A-4 H.C. Gupta that the applications have
not been checked for their eligibility and completeness. There was
thus no reason in the facts and circumstances of the case for the
Prime Minister as Minister of Coal to presume that the guidelines
issued have not been complied with. It is thus not only apparent from

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 398 of 467
 the record but it is also certainly permissible to draw a presumption in
the overall facts and circumstances of the case that Prime Minister as
Minister of Coal proceeded to consider the recommendations of the
Screening Committee on the assumption that the applications must
have been checked in MOC for their eligibility and completeness or
that the guidelines must have been duly followed even by the
Screening Committee. Thus if in the aforesaid facts and
circumstances, the contention of Ld. Counsels for the accused
persons is considered that the guidelines were silent as regard post
approval checking or scrutiny of the applications for their eligibility
and completeness then it will be worth mentioning that the MOC
officers have all through the coal block allocation process have rather
chosen to act qua various acts even beyond the purview of
guidelines. A clear example of such an act on their part was in calling
upon each of the applicant company for a presentation before the
Screening Committee and to also ask them to submit a feedback
form titled "Latest Status of End Use Project". 489. Before proceeding further, I may state as a mark of caution
that I am not at all questioning the justification for such a decision of
MOC officers in calling upon the companies to make a presentation
before the Screening Committee or to submit a feedback form titled
"Latest Status of End Use Project" as the same may be a step to
ensure better appreciation of claims made by applicant companies or
to ensure more objectivity and transparency in the matter. However
the issue which is under consideration now is whether the guidelines

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 399 of 467
 issued by MOC provided for any such mechanism for calling upon the
applicant companies to make presentation before the Screening
Committee and to also submit a feedback form titled "Latest Status of
End Use Project" or not. The answer in this regard is a clear "NO". In
fact the minutes Ex. PW-1/N-3 (colly) (D-18) of meeting held on
11.05.2007 itself shows such a concern on the part of MOC officers.
The MOC officers as members of Screening Committee were
conscious of this fact that the guidelines issued by MOC were
completely silent as regard any provision of making presentation by
applicant companies or submission of any feedback form. It is
primarily for this reason only that the 36th Screening Committee even
proceeded to consider applications of those companies which had not
appeared before the Screening Committee to make any presentation
or to submit any feedback form. 490. Thus in view of my aforesaid discussion, it is clear that the
guidelines issued by MOC were though the guiding factors as per
which the allocation of captive coal blocks was to be made by MOC
but MOC officers certainly deviated from the said guidelines as and
when deemed necessary by them. Thus it was in these
circumstances observed by this Court that applications of the few
selected companies i.e. that of thirty eight (38) who were finally
recommended by the Screening Committee for allocation of various
coal blocks and which recommendations were approved by Minister
of Coal could have been checked at least before the issuance of
allocation letters in order to ensure that the applications of such

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 400 of 467
 companies were complete or that they were eligible for allocation of a
captive coal block. Thus in my considered opinion the checking of
applications even at the stage of post-approval of recommendations
of Screening Committee by Prime Minister as Minister of Coal for
their eligibility and completeness would have not only ensured a
greater degree of objectivity and transparency in the entire coal block
allocation process but it would have also ensured that the important
Nationalised natural resources of the country i.e. coal does not go
into the hands of any ineligible company or a company whose
application was incomplete in terms of the guidelines issued by MOC
governing allocation of coal blocks. 491. At this stage, I may also mention that by suggesting the
aforesaid course of action which any reasonable and prudent person
who is saddled with responsibility to protect larger public interest in
the allocation of important nationalized natural resources of the
country would have taken. I am not at all laying down any new
methodology or policy directions which ought to have governed the
allocation of captive coal blocks. It is only that if the MOC officers
found complying with the guidelines issued by MOC governing
allocation of captive coal blocks a difficult preposition at the initial
stage of the process and if they were acting bonafide and in good
faith then keeping in mind the important nature of task being
performed by them the checking of applications for their eligibility and
completeness as was required to be carried out at the initial stage

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 401 of 467
 itself could have been done at least prior to issuance of allocation
letters to the selected companies. Thus this Court is not trying to
introduce any new guidelines in the already issued guidelines of MOC
but the methodology as stated above would have not only facilitated
due compliance with the guidelines issued by MOC but would have
also taken care of various other constraints such as shortage of staff
etc. in complying with the guidelines at the initial stage itself.
Moreover as mentioned above the MOC officers introduced various
other steps in the process of allocation of coal blocks and which steps
were certainly not provided for in the guidelines. These all steps
would have simply provided the means to achieve the final goal as
was sought to be achieved by the guidelines. 492. Thus once again it can not be stated or believed that due to
inefficiency or incompetence of the accused MOC officers the
applications could not be checked for eligibility and completeness.
The overall facts and circumstances are rather strongly suggestive or
indicative of existence of malafide intention on the part of accused
MOC officers in procuring/obtaining allocation of a Moira-Madhujore
coal block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL by abusing their position and
the said act has also been done by them with complete disregard to
public interest much less without public interest. 493. In the light of aforesaid discussion, it will be now appropriate
to discuss as to which of the offences for which charges have been
framed against the accused public servants stands proved against
them. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 402 of 467
 (I) Offence of criminal misconduct i.e. u/s 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act,
1988 . 494. Before proceeding to analyse the charge for the offence u/s
13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988 as framed against the three aforesaid
accused public servants, it will be pertinent to first have a glance over
the said section. Section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988 read as under: 495. Apparently offence u/s 13 (1) (d) (i) P.C. Act, 1988, shall stand
attracted only if it is proved by the prosecution that the public servant
involved committed the offence of criminal misconduct by using any
illegal or corrupt means. However neither there is any allegation of
prosecution nor any such evidence is available on record which may
show that any of the three public servants obtained allocation of
Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL by any corrupt

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 403 of 467
 or illegal means as has been contemplated in section 13 (1)(d) (i) P.C. Act, 1988. Accordingly offence u/s 13 (1) (d) (i) P.C. Act, 1988 is
not made out against them. 496. However as regard 13 (1) (d) (ii) P.C. Act, 1988 , prosecution
is required to prove only that in order to obtain either for himself or for
any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage, the
public servant abused his position. Thus as is evident from my
aforesaid detailed discussion, it is clear that the three accused MOC
officers i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta, Secretary, Coal and Chairman Screening
Committee, A-5 K.S. Kropha, Joint Secretary, Coal and Member
Convener, Screening Committee and A-6 K.C. Samria, Deputy
Secretary/Director, CA-I Ministry of Coal abused their position as
such public servants in order to obtain for A-1 M/s VMPL allocation of
Moira-Madhujore coal block. The circumstances of the case as have
been extensively discussed above clearly shows the existence of
malafide intention on the part of all the three public servants in their
various acts. It has been clearly established that in the Screening
Committee meeting held on 03.07.08, A-4 H.C. Gupta and A-5 K.S.
Kropha ensured allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of
A-1 M/s VMPL by abusing their position as such public servants. It
has been clearly established that despite they being responsible for
ensuring compliance of the guidelines by the Screening Committee
and especially as regard ascertaining the interse priority of the
competing applicant companies they not only misled the other

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 404 of 467
 Screening Committee members to believe that the decision being
taken is as per the merits of the applicant companies and in
accordance with the recommendations made by the Administrative
Ministry i.e. Ministry of Steel but even subsequently while preparing
the minutes in the MOC all the reasons for arriving at such a decision
were with-held. It has also been discussed that the minutes before
they were approved by A-4 H.C. Gupta and were sent to Prime
Minister as Minister of Coal for his approval were never sent to
Screening Committee members for their confirmation. It has also
been established that A-4 H.C. Gupta in the meeting held in PMO
with Principal Secretary to Prime Minister dishonestly misrepresented
that all the decisions have been taken on merits of the applicants and
on the basis of recommendations of the State Governments where
the coal blocks are situated. It has also been established that A-5
K.S. Kropha despite being Member Convener also failed to take
necessary steps in ensuring that all the entities whose views were
important for arriving at its decision by the Screening Committee are
duly invited to the Screening Committee meetings or in the alternative
at least their views/comments are available to the Screening
Committee. 497. As regard A-6 K.C. Samria it has been well established that
he being the holder of office to whom various applications were
addressed i.e. of the office of Director, CA-I, he did not ensure
compliance of the guidelines by CA-I Section. It has also been
discussed and established that all the three accused MOC officers

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 405 of 467
 were well aware at least on 11.05.2007, if not before, that the
applications have not been checked for their eligibility and
completeness in MOC. The records of the case also shows that A-6
K.C. Samria was also in receipt of certain communications from
Department of Mines and Geology, Government of Bihar a few
months back wherein it was stated that M/s VMPL is planning to
establish an integrated power plant at Begusarai Bihar but still he did
not bring it to the notice of Screening Committee or to the senior
officers of MOC when the application of M/s VMPL for establishing an
integrated steel plant on the same land at Begusarai Bihar was being
considered. He also failed to ensure that notice is issued to State
Government of Bihar for attending 36 th Screening Committee
meetings or at least their comments are obtained so that the same
are available to the Screening Committee for its consideration. This
fact assumes all the more importance as the comments of
Government of Bihar would have clearly mentioned that neither M/s
VMPL is any longer intending to establish any such integrated steel
plant in the state nor any land stands allocated in its favour by BIADA
or that the allocation of 300 acres of land as was earlier made in
favour of the company has since been cancelled. It has also been
discussed and established that both A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C.
Samria despite knowing fully well that 36 th Screening Committee has
recommended allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of
A-1 M/s VMPL for its end use project at Bihar only but got the
allocation letter issued in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL not only for its
proposed plant at Bihar but also for its existing plant at Purulia West

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 406 of 467
 Bengal. I thus do not wish to go into the detailed discussion of the
various facts and circumstances of the case once again over here as
the same have been dealt with extensively in the earlier part of the
judgment but from the overall facts and circumstances of the case, it
is clear that the three accused public servants i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta, A-
5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria clearly abused their position as
public servants in order to obtain allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal
block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL for its proposed plant at Bihar and
also for its existing plant at Purulia West Bengal. All the three
accused public servants i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and
A-6 K.C. Samria are thus clearly guilty of committing the offence
of criminal misconduct i.e. u/s 13 (1) (d) (ii) punishable u/s 13 (2) P.C. Act, 1988 and accordingly stands convicted thereunder. 498. As regard offence u/s 13 (1) (d) (iii) P.C. Act 1988 not
much discussion is required as it is clear that the three accused
public servants acted with complete disregard to public interest in
obtaining allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1
M/s VMPL much less without any public interest. As a mark of
caution, I may mention over here that while considering as to whether
the offence u/s 13 (1) (d) (iii) P.C. Act 1988 is made out or not against
the three accused public servants the issue of there being
requirement of any mens rea or guilty intention on the part of accused
public servants ceases to have any significance as the guilty intention
of the accused MOC officers in the entire matter stands well proved

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 407 of 467
 beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts. 499. Moreover, neither it has been argued nor it can be said that in
the process of allocation of captive coal blocks no public interest was
involved. Thus, on account of aforesaid circumstances it clearly
stands established that the accused public servants with malafide
intention abused their position as such public servants with a view to
obtain allocation of Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1 M/s
VMPL and that too without any public interest. Thus offence u/s 13
(1) (d) (iii) P.C. Act 1988 r/w Section 13 (2) P.C. Act, 1988 is also
clearly made out against the three accused public servants
beside offence u/s 13 (1) (d) (ii) P.C. Act, 1988 as already
mentioned above. The three accused public servants i.e. A-4
H.C. Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria thus stands
convicted for the offences u/s 13 (1) (d) (ii) / 13 (1) (d) (iii) r/w Section 13 (1) (2) P.C. Act, 1988. (J) Criminal Conspiracy u/s 120-B IPC 500. As regard the offence of criminal conspiracy not much
discussion is required as the overall facts and circumstances of the
case as discussed above clearly shows that the three accused public
servants willingly entered the bandwagon of criminal conspiracy as
was hatched by the private parties involved i.e. A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2
Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick. The observations of Hon'ble
Supreme Court as were made in the case State through
Superintendent of Police, CBI/SIT Vs. Nalini (Supra) as have been

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 408 of 467
 earlier quoted in the earlier part of the judgment clearly supports the
conclusion regarding existence of such a criminal conspiracy initially
hatched by the private parties involved and in which the public
servants subsequently joined. As earlier also observed direct
evidence of meeting of minds or of forming an agreement to enter
any such criminal conspiracy may not be available but the same can
always be inferred from the overall facts and circumstances of the
case. Thus, the various acts of accused public servants clearly show
that they left no stone unturned in ensuring allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL. The acts of the
three accused public servants clearly show that they were acting with
a pre-determined mind so as to ensure that not only allocation of
Moira-Madhujore coal block is obtained in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL for
its proposed plant at Bihar but also for its existing plant at West
Bengal. In fact as already discussed at length, the company M/s
VMPL in fact never intended to establish any plant in Bihar and their
primary intention was to obtain allocation of a captive coal block for
their existing plant at West Bengal only. The accused public servants
thus ensured that not only Moira-Madhujore coal block is allotted in
favour of company M/s VMPL by 36 th Screening Committee and is
finally approved by Prime Minister as Minister of coal but even though
Screening Committee having recommended the allocation of coal
block to the company for its proposed project at Bihar only, still the
final allocation letter mentioned that the same has been allotted for
the existing plant of M/s VMPL at Purulia, West Bengal also.
Moreover this act was undertaken by them despite knowing fully well

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 409 of 467
 that State Government of West Bengal was not in favour of allocation
of any coal block situated in their state, to M/s VMPL and also that
Ministry of Steel had placed the company in category VI while placing
other competing applicant companies in higher categories. The
offence of criminal conspiracy i.e. u/s 120-B IPC thus stands well
proved against all the three accused public servants i.e. A-4 H.C.
Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria and they are
accordingly convicted thereunder. All the three accused public servants accordingly
stands also guilty of the offence u/s 120-B r/w Section 13 (1) (d) (ii) and 13 (1) (d) (iii) P.C. Act, 1988 and are accordingly
convicted thereunder. (K) Section 409 IPC and Section 13 (1) (c) P.C. Act, 1988 as
against A-4 H.C. Gupta 501. As regard A-4 H.C. Gupta, who was Secretary Coal as well
as Chairman Screening Committee, I may state that though in his
dual capacity as above he was controlling the affairs of both MOC as
well as Screening Committee but it can not be stated that he was
exercising any exclusive dominion over the coal blocks to be
allocated by MOC. Undoubtedly in terms of the guidelines issued by
MOC governing allocation of coal blocks A-4 H.C. Gupta and other
MOC officers were well aware that based on the recommendations of
the Screening Committee, the MOC will allocate coal blocks and as
discussed above while forwarding the recommendations of Screening
Committee to Prime Minister as Minister of Coal, it was no where

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 410 of 467
 disclosed by the accused MOC officers that the guidelines either qua
checking of applications for their eligibility and completeness in MOC
or qua ascertaining interse priority of applicant companies in
Screening Committee have not been followed. As already discussed
above at length they exploited this situation by abusing their offices
so as to ensure recommendation of 36 th Screening Committee in
favour of M/s VMPL of Moira-Madhujore coal block. Subsequently
they also with-held all material information regarding non-compliance
with the guidelines from Prime Minister as Minister of Coal while
seeking his approval of the recommendations of 36 th Screening
Committee. However the prosecution has been unable to prove that
A-4 H.C. Gupta was exercising any exclusive dominion/control over
the said coal blocks or that the said nationalised natural resources of
the country were entrusted to him in any manner. Certainly A-4 H.C.
Gupta alongwith A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria were playing
major roles in the coal block allocation process and by their various
acts of omission and commission they did assist A-1 M/s VMPL, A-2
Vikash Patni and A-3 Anand Mallick in procuring allocation of Moira-
Madhujore coal block from MOC, Government of India on the basis of
false claims/misrepresentations and while also submitting incomplete
application which was liable to be rejected at the initial stage itself.
However as the basic essential ingredient of the offence of criminal
breach of trust by a public servant i.e. of section 409 IPC or that of
the offence of criminal misconduct by a public servant u/s 13 (1) (c) CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 411 of 467 P.C. Act, 1988 , that the public servant concerned must have been
either entrusted with the property in question or he must be having
dominion/control over the property in question does not stand proved
as regard A-4 H.C. Gupta vis-a-vis the coal blocks to be allocated by
MOC, Government of India so the issue whether the other ingredients
of the two offences stand proved or not need not be gone into.
Accordingly charge for the offence u/s 409 IPC and offence u/s 13 (1) (c) P.C. Act, 1988 does not stand proved against A-4 H.C. Gupta. A-4 H.C. Gupta is thus acquitted of the offence u/s
409 IPC and of the offence u/s 13 (1) (c) P.C. Act, 1988. 502. I now intend to discuss certain other miscellaneous issues as
were raised by Ld. Counsels for the accused persons. The said
issues were not earlier dealt with as in my considered opinion the
discussion qua said issues or consequent decision as shall be
followed hereinafter shall have no affect on the finding qua various
offences as against different accused persons as has been recorded
by me herein above. (L) Validity of sanction U/s 19 PC Act, 1988 as accorded
against A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria by the
Competent Sanctioning Authority. 503. It has been submitted by Ld. Counsel for A-5 K.S. Kropha and
A-6 K.C. Samria that as both the accused persons were serving
public servants at the time when this Court took cognizance of
various offences under P.C. Act, 1988 so sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act was
a pre requisite condition for taking cognizance of the offences under

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 412 of 467 P.C. Act . It has been further submitted that though CBI had admittedly
filed a closure report initially against all the accused persons but this
Court vide order dated 15.10.2014 disagreed with the said conclusion
and referred back the matter for further investigation. However, after
carrying out further investigation also, CBI though charge-sheeted the
private parties but again chose to file a closure report as against the
accused public servants stating that no offence have been found to
have been committed by them. This Court however vide Order dated
05.08.2015 referred back the case to CBI with the directions that
matter be placed before the competent sanctioning authority for
considering according of sanction against the accused public
servants i.e. A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria. Subsequent
thereto when the matter was placed before the competent
sanctioning authority by the CBI along with the copy of Order passed
by this Court then sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act for prosecution of the two
accused persons for the offences P.C. Act, 1988 was stated to have
been accorded by the competent sanctioning authority. Accordingly,
this Court proceeded ahead to take cognizance against the accused
public servants vide order dated 05.02.2016 and ordered their
summoning. It has been submitted that subsequently when during the
course of trial PW 17 Raj Kishan Vats, Under Secretary, DoPT was
examined and the relevant file from DoPT was summoned for the
purposes of cross-examination of the said witness then it was found
that the sanction as has been accorded against the two public
servants by the competent sanctioning authority has been without
any application of mind and without consideration of complete record. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 413 of 467
 It has been submitted that from the proceedings conducted in the
said file, it is evident that the Prime Minister proceeded ahead to
accord sanction on the basis of report of CVC and that of Minister of
State for Coal and there was no independent application of mind by
the sanctioning authority. It was also submitted that from the records,
it is clear that complete material was not placed before the
sanctioning authority before it considered the issue of according of
sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act to prosecute the two public servants. It was
further submitted that from the records, it is also evident that though
initial sanction order dated 05.01.2016 qua both the public servants
was authenticated by PW 17 Raj Kishan Vats under his own
signatures but subsequently on the pointing out of DIG, CBI, Sh. Ravi
Kant that there are certain errors in the sanction orders, fresh
sanction orders dated 27.01.2016 were issued against both the
accused persons by PW 17 Raj Kishan Vats. It was however
submitted that on this occasion the file never traveled to the desk of
sanctioning authority and thus the new sanction orders dated
27.01.2016 on the basis of which this Court took cognizance of
various offences under P.C. Act against the two public servants were
never issued after obtaining approval from the competent sanctioning
authority. Such a sanction was thus stated to be per se defective and
thereby striking at the very roots of the case. It was thus submitted
that on account of the aforesaid basic defects in the case of
prosecution, the cognizance taken by this Court against the two
accused public servants was clearly bad in law and the accused
persons ought to be acquitted of all the charges. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 414 of 467 504. On the other hand, Ld. Senior PP strongly opposed the
submissions made by accused public servants. It was submitted that
the sanction orders were authenticated by PW 17 Raj Kishan Vats
pursuant to Rules issued in this regard by Ministry of Home Affairs,
vide Notification dated 03.11.1998 and as has been amended from
time to time. It was submitted that the said Rules titled "Authentication
(Orders and other Instructions) Rules, 1958 were issued by the
President of India in the exercise of powers under Article 77(2) of the
Constitution of India. As regard the issuance of fresh sanction orders
dated 27.01.2016, it was submitted that there was no requirement of
putting up the file again before the sanctioning authority since what
was done after issuance of initial sanction orders 05.01.2016 was
correction of certain typographical errors/ inadvertent factual errors
only. It was also submitted that from the records produced by PW 17
Raj Kishan Vats and from his deposition, it was clear that all the
relevant material was very much available before the competent
sanctioning authority and accordingly the sanction granted u/s 19 P.C. Act, 1988 for prosecution of the two public servants was a valid
sanction. My Discussion 505. At the outset, I may state that in so far as the issuance of
formal sanction orders by PW 17 Raj Kishan Vats, Under Secretary,
DoPT under his own signatures pursuant to sanction for prosecution
having been accorded by the competent sanctioning authority is
concerned, the said act stands very well covered under the Rules

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 415 of 467
 titled "Authentication (Orders and other Instructions) Rules, 1958 and
as have been amended from time to time. No fault in the said act can
thus be found. 506. Coming to the second limb of the arguments that after the
initial sanction orders dated 05.01.2016 was issued then on the
pointing out of certain factual errors by DIG, CBI, Sh. Ravi Kant, fresh
sanction orders after making necessary corrections were issued by
PW 17 Raj Kishan Vats, I may state that again no fault can be found
in the sanction orders dated 27.01.2016. A bare perusal of the record
i.e. file of DoPT Ex. AD-1 and AD-2 shows that all the relevant
material was available before the competent sanctioning authority.
The record also shows that the competent sanctioning authority had
duly applied his mind before considering the issue of according
sanction to prosecute the two public servants. Certainly, DoPT has
laid down its own procedure as to how any request from an
investigating agency or from any other person for considering
according of sanction to prosecute any public servant(s) shall be
entertained. The record shows that initially certain correspondence
was exchanged between CBI and DoPT on account of non-
compliance with some such procedural conditions. However, when all
such requisite documents and that too in the given format were made
available to DoPT including the opinion of the concerned
Administrative Ministry i.e. Ministry of Coal in the present case then
view/opinion of CVC was also obtained. It was thereafter that the
material was processed in DoPT and after being routed through the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 416 of 467
 desk of Minister of State was placed before Prime Minister, who was
the competent sanctioning authority to consider according of sanction
to prosecute the two accused public servants. However, in the
peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case when CBI had
initially filed the closure report against all the accused persons, this
Court had thereafter while disagreeing with the said conclusion of CBI
referred back the matter for further investigation to CBI by a passing
detailed order. However the CBI again chose to file a closure report
as against the public servants though on this occasion it chose to
charge-sheet the private parties involved. However, this Court as
earlier mentioned again chose to disagree with the said conclusion
drawn by CBI as regard the public servants and after finding that
prima facie case was made out for taking cognizance of various
offences against the public servants also, referred back the matter
again to CBI directing that matter be placed before the competent
sanctioning authority for considering according of sanction to
prosecute the two public servants. Thus in these circumstances no
fault can be found if the matter before the competent sanctioning
authority was placed for consideration in terms of the detailed orders
passed by this Court. Infact here is a case where competent
sanctioning authority had before it two contradictory views on the
same set of facts i.e. one drawn by the investigating agency which
chose to close the case against the accused public servants and the
other view expressed by this Court vide its detailed orders wherein it
was found that on the same set of facts and evidence collected by
CBI, prima facie offence was made out. It was in these circumstances

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 417 of 467
 that competent sanctioning authority also formed the opinion that
prima facie the various acts of omission and commission as were
alleged against the public servants warranted their prosecution under
the P.C. Act, 1988 . The competent sanctioning authority accordingly
gave its approval according sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act, 1988 to
prosecute the two accused public servants taking into consideration
the entire facts and circumstances. It thus cannot be stated by any
stretch of imagination and more so when no specific documents have
been pointed out having been not made available before the
sanctioning authority or non-availability of which would have impacted
the decision making process of the sanctioning authority, that all the
relevant material was not available before the sanctioning authority
before it proceeded to consider the issue of according sanction u/s 19 P.C. Act, 1988 to prosecute the two public servants. It also thus
cannot be stated that the sanctioning authority accorded sanction u/s
19 P.C. Act, 1988 to prosecute the two public servants without any
application of mind. 507. Coming now to the last limb of the arguments regarding
corrections made in the initial sanction orders dated 05.01.2016, it will
be worthwhile to point out that though certain corrections were indeed
made by PW 17 Raj Kishan Vats in the initial sanction Orders dated
05.01.2016 but he stated in his deposition that the said corrections
were done after the file in this regard was approved by the then Joint
Secretary, DoPT. In fact in his cross-examination, the attention of the
witness was specifically drawn to such corrections made in the initial

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 418 of 467
 sanction orders dated 05.01.2016 and the witness specifically stated
that same were inadvertent errors and when the same came to his
notice then the said errors were rectified before issuance of fresh
sanction orders dated 27.01.2016. At this stage, I may mention that
one such correction made in the sanction orders dated 05.01.2016
was that in the body of both sanction orders dated 05.01.2016 it was
stated that the requirements of section 13 (1) (d) (iii) is satisfied in the
case of the public servant concerned to constitute an offence of
criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 .
However in the two sanction orders dated 27.01.2016 it was stated
that the requirement of section 13 (1) (d) is satisfied in the case of
public servant concerned to constitute an offence of criminal
misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . In this
regard I may, however, mention that if the final sanction as was
accorded by the competent sanctioning authority is seen then it is
found that in both the sanction orders dated 05.01.2016, the sanction
granted was for the offences u/s 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) P.C. Act, 1988 and
for any offences punishable under other provisions of law in respect
of said offences by the Court of Competent Jurisdiction. Similar words
were however reiterated in the sanction orders dated 27.01.2016.
Thus there is no change in the corrected sanction orders dated
27.01.2016 issued by PW 17 Raj Kishan Vats as compared to the
earlier sanction orders dated 05.01.2016 in so far as the actual
substance and intent of sanction accorded by the competent
sanctioning authority is concerned. There were however certain other
factual errors also which were rectified in the sanction orders dated

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 419 of 467
 27.01.2016 as compared to earlier sanction orders dated 05.01.2016
in as much as in the orders dated 05.01.2016 it was stated that
cognizance has already been taken by the Court. This fact was no
longer mentioned in the sanction orders dated 27.01.2016. Certainly
the omission of said fact which apparently was an inadvertent factual
mistake regarding the proceedings of this Court and especially
because the question of considering according of sanction could not
have arisen for consideration at all, if any cognizance of the offences
would have been already taken by the Court. What is important to be
seen is that the basic factual matrix on the basis of which sanction to
prosecute was sought and as which was placed before the competent
sanctioning authority remained the same and it was on the basis of
the same that necessary sanction to prosecute u/s 19 P.C. Act, 1988
for the offences u/s 13 (1) (d) r/w 13 (2) P.C. Act and for any offences
punishable under other provisions of law in respect of the said
offences was granted. In the case Dattatreya Moreshwar v. State of Bombay ,
AIR 1952, SC 181, it was observed by Hon'ble Supreme Court as
under: Similarly, in the case State of Bombay v. Purushotam Jog
Naik , AIR 1952 SC 317 while discussing the form of sanction order,

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 420 of 467
 Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: 508. In a recent case tiled Director, CBI and Another v
Ashok Kumar Aswal and Another (2015) 16 SCC 163, a similar
issue as is in the present case came up for consideration. Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed as under: 509. Thus what is important to see over here is whether the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 422 of 467
 substratum of initial sanction accorded by the competent sanctioning
authority has been changed or altered on account of the corrections
made in the new sanction orders. It is also thus clear that for
corrections of typographical mistakes or inadvertent errors the file
need not travel all the way to competent sanctioning authority again.
Even otherwise nothing has been shown on behalf of accused public
servants as to in what manner any prejudice has been caused to
them or that any failure of justice has occurred. 510. At this stage the observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court in an
Order dated 13.07.2017 passed in Criminal Appeal No. 1137 of
2017 titled Girish Kumar Suneja vs CBI preferred by one of the
accused in one other coal scam matter itself, will be worth
reproducing here: 71. What does the expression 'failure of justice' mean? In Shamnsaheb M. Multani v. State of Karnataka it was held that
 the expression 'failure of justice' is too pliable or facile an
 expression which could be fitted in any situation. The criminal
 court, particularly the superior court should make a close
 examination to ascertain whether there was really a failure of
 justice or whether it is only a camouflage. It was held in
 paragraphs 23 and 24 of the Report as follows: 72. This decision was followed in State of M.P. v. Bhooraji and
 also in Rattiram v. State of M.P. In the latter decision, it was held
 that the expression 'failure of justice' must be given its due
 significance otherwise every procedural lapse or interdict could
 be interpreted to result in a failure of justice making the criminal
 justice delivery system completely illusory. Rattiram dealt with
 non-compliance with Section 193 of the Cr.P.C. and it was held
 that this did not result in a failure of justice. It was held in
 paragraphs 65 and 66 of the Report as follows: 511. In view of my aforesaid discussion, I am thus of the
considered opinion that no fault can be found with the sanction orders
dated 27.01.2016 as were issued under the signatures of PW 17 Raj
Kishan Vats on the basis of sanction accorded by the competent
sanctioning authority u/s 19 P.C. Act for prosecution of A-5 K.S.
Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria for the offences u/s 13(1)(d) r/w 13(2) P.C. Act, 1988 and for any offences punishable under other provisions
of law in respect of said offences. (M) Whether sanction u/s 197 Cr. PC was required against
A-4 H.C. Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria 512. Ld. Counsels for the accused MOC Officers have also
vehemently argued that since all the acts as have been attributed to
the accused MOC Officers in the entire coal block allocation process
were done by them in the discharge of their official duties so
cognizance of the offences u/s 409 IPC and section 120-B IPC
against them was clearly bad in law. 513. However, before proceeding to discuss the aforesaid issue, I
may mention that I had consciously not dealt with the present issue at

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 426 of 467
 an earlier stage of the judgment as I first intended to examine as to
qua which offence(s) under IPC the prosecution may succeed in
proving against the accused persons. However as now charge for
the offence u/s 409 IPC does not stands proved against A-4 H.C.
Gupta so the issue of grant of sanction u/s 197 Cr. PC qua the said
offence need not be gone into. We are thus left only with the offence
of criminal conspiracy i.e. u/s 120-B IPC as against the three Ministry
of Coal Officers for whom it has been argued that sanction for
prosecution u/s 197 Cr. PC is a sine qua non for taking cognizance. 514. In this regard, I may mention that the present issue can be
viewed from two different stand points. Firstly, as discussed above
the various acts of omission and commission as were committed by
the accused public servants cannot be stated to have been
committed by them while acting or purporting to act in the discharge
of their official duties. In fact it was their position as such public
servants which provided them an occasion to commit such acts of
omission and commission while choosing to enter into a criminal
conspiracy with the private parties involved but it cannot be stated
that they so acted either in the discharge of their official duties or in
the purported discharge of their official duties. Moreover, in the case Rajib Ranjan & Ors vs R. Vijay Kumar , ( 2015) 1 SCC 513 and
Inspector of Police & Anr. Vs Battenapatla Venkata Ratnam
&Anr., C.A. No. 129 of 2013 (SC), it has been categorically held by
Hon'ble Supreme Court that when a public servant enters into a
criminal conspiracy or indulges in criminal misconduct, such

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 427 of 467
 misdemeanour on his part is not to be treated as an act in discharge
of his official duties and therefore, provisions of Section 197 Cr. PC
will not be attracted. Reference in this regard can also be had to K.
Satwant Singh vs State of Punjab , 1960 (2) SCR 89; Amrik Singh
vs State of Pepsu , 1955 (1)SCR 1302 and Om Prakash Gupta vs
State of U.P., 1957 SCR 423. 515. There is, however, yet another aspect of the present matter.
Since the role attributed to the accused public servants in the entire
criminal conspiracy is clearly traceable to the offences u/s 13 (1) (d) (ii)/13 (1) (d) (iii) P.C. Act, 1988 committed by them so for any
conspiracy to commit any such offence under Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 , no sanction u/s 197 Cr. PC can be held to be
required. Certainly, for a substantive offence thereof under Prevention
of Corruption Act, 1988 , sanction u/s 19 Prevention of Corruption Act,
1988 is required. Admittedly, the said sanction u/s 19 of Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 is available on record as against A-5 K.S.
Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samaria. The said sanction order also states
that the competent sanctioning authority has accorded the sanction
for prosecution of the two accused public servants for the offence u/s
13(1)(d) r/w 13 (2) Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and for any
offences punishable under other provisions of law in respect of the
said offences. Thus the offence of criminal conspiracy i.e. u/s 120-B IPC as discussed above qua public servants in question related to the
offence of criminal misconduct i.e. u/s 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988 so not
only the competent sanctioning authority has accorded sanction for

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 428 of 467
 the same but also no separate sanction u/s 197 Cr.PC is required.
Further as A-4 H.C. Gupta had since retired from Government service
so no sanction u/s 19 PC Act, 1988 was required for taking
cognizance of the offences under Prevention of Corruption Act,1988 against him. However, once again as I have already discussed at
length that the very acts which were committed by A-4 H.C. Gupta
were primarily on account of abuse of his position as such public
servant and can not be termed as acts done in the discharge of his
official duties warranting any requirement of sanction u/s 197 Cr.PC
qua him also. Consequently no sanction u/s 197 Cr. PC is even required
for the offence of criminal conspiracy to commit any offence under Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 qua either of the three accused
MOC officers. 516. Ld. Counsels for the public servants while relying upon the
case N. K. Ganguly Vs. CBI (2015) SCC On-line SC 1205 however
strongly argued that for the acts allegedly committed by the accused
public servants no cognizance of the offences under IPC can be
taken without a prior sanction u/s 197 Cr.PC. However, I may
observe that in the N. K. Ganguly case (Supra), Hon'ble Supreme
Court has primarily reiterated the basic principle of law that for an act
which is alleged to have been committed in discharge of official duty
by accused the previous sanction u/s 197 Cr PC is a pre-requisite
condition. However with utmost respect I may state that the said
principle is not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 429 of 467
 present case in as much as the various acts of omission and
commission committed by the accused public servants and as
discussed at length in the present judgment can not be said to have
been committed by the accused MOC officers in the discharge of
their official duties. As already discussed above the facts of the
present case clearly show that A-4 H.C. Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and
A-6 K.C. Samria entered into a criminal conspiracy with company A-1
M/s VMPL and its director A-2 Vikash Patni and its Business
Development Manager i.e. A-3 Anand Mallick so as to procure
allotment of Moira-Madhujore coal block in favour of A-1 M/s VMPL.
Thus the said acts of entering into a criminal conspiracy to commit
offence of criminal misconduct as defined under Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 cannot be deemed to have been done in
discharge of their official duty by the accused MOC officers. It is
altogether a different matter that the position of the accused persons
either as Secretary, Coal and as Chairman, Screening Committee or
as Joint Secretary MOC and Member Convener Screening
Committee or as Dy. Secretary/Director CA-I Section, Ministry of Coal
provided them an opportunity to so enter into a criminal conspiracy
with the private persons. However, I may again reiterate that the acts
as stands proved against the accused public servants i.e. A-4 H. C.
Gupta, A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria are such that if
questioned they cannot claim that they were acting in the discharge
of their official duties. 517. Thus, in view of my aforesaid discussion, it is clear that there

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 430 of 467
 was no requirement of sanction u/s 197 Cr. PC in the present matter. (N) Effect of Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act,
2018 on the present proceedings. 518. Subsequent to the promulgation of Prevention of Corruption
(Amendment) Act 2018 [herein-after referred to as "Amendment Act
2018"] on 26.07.2018 by Government of India, certain additional
arguments were addressed by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi on behalf
of accused public servants. Written submissions were also filed by
him in support of his submissions. 519. The primary submission put-forth by him was that by virtue of
Amendment Act 2018, the Legislature has introduced many changes
in the Principal Act of 1988 and has also deemed it appropriate to
omit the earlier Section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988 completely. The old section 13 was stated to have been substituted by a new section 13 and thereby the right of the State to punish any act or omission under
the old Section 13 has been taken away. It has been submitted that
as the accused public servants in the present trial have been charged
primarily for the offence as defined under the old section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988 so on account of omission of said offence now from
the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , the said offence should be
deemed to have been non-existent on the statute book since its
inception itself. It has been further submitted that the Legislature by
way of Amendment Act, 2018 has also not deemed it appropriate to
provide a saving clause as regard the proceedings which have been
initiated under the old Section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988 and as the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 431 of 467
 earlier Section 13 (1) (d) has been omitted so even General Clauses
Act, 1897 is not applicable qua the legal proceedings earlier instituted
under the old section 13 . It was thus submitted that any further
proceedings qua the said offences should be deemed non-est in law.
While referring to the 69 th report of Parliamentary Standing
Committee on the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Bill 2013, it
was submitted that the intention of the Legislature was clear that only
such acts or omissions should be punishable where there is element
of any quid-pro-quo or undue advantage to the public servant
concerned. It was submitted that new Section 13 P.C. Act, as now
stands on the statute book, clearly shows that the earlier offence
under the old section 13 (1) (d) P.C, 1988. Act completely ceases to
exist. It was also submitted that from the objects and reasons of the
Amendment Act, 2018 and the new provisions introduced thereby, the
intention of the Legislature is very clear that it never sought to punish
those acts or omission of the public servants which were made
punishable under the old section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act without there
being any element of quid-pro-quo. 520. It was thus submitted by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi for
accused public servants that in order to continue with the present
proceedings no resort can even be placed upon Section 6 of General
Clauses Act, 1897 for the same is applicable only to those cases
where an existing statute has been repealed by any Central Act or
regulation. It was submitted that Hon'ble Supreme Court has
categorically held that where a provision in a Statute has been

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 432 of 467
 omitted by Legislature then such omission is not covered by Section
6 General Clauses Act and more so when intention of the Legislature
appears to be otherwise. It was thus reiterated that in the absence of
a saving clause and on account of omission of Section 13 (1) (d) , P.C.
Act from the statute book, it is clear that no legal proceedings can
neither be instituted under the old section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act nor can
be continued if already instituted. 521. By way of yet another argument, it was also submitted that on
account of omission of old section 13 (1) (d) from the statute book,
the said offences ceases to be punishable any longer and thus the
alleged acts or omissions committed by the accused public servants
can not be any longer punished by this Court in view of the settled
preposition of law whereby the Court is bound to give benefit of
reduced penalty to the accused public servants. In support of his aforesaid submissions, Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi
for accused public servants i.e. A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria placed reliance upon the following case law: 522. On the other hand Ld. Sr. P.P. Sh. Sanjay Kumar strongly
opposed the aforesaid submissions of Ld. Counsel for accused public
servants stating that had there been any intention of the Legislature
that the on-going proceedings under the old section 13 (1) (d) P.C.
Act shall not continue then there would have been a specific provision
made in the Amendment Act, 2018. It was thus submitted that since
the Legislature has chosen to not provide any such clause in the
Amendment Act, 2018, so it can not be stated that the proceedings
pending under old section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act can not be continued
any further. My Discussion 523. The arguments put-forth by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi for
accused MOC officers are two-fold. Firstly that the impugned
provision i.e. old section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988 has since been
omitted by virtue of Amendment Act, 2018 from 26.07.2018 i.e. the
date when the same was published in the Gazette of India. It has
been thus submitted that since omission of a provision in an
enactment does not amount to repeal thereof so in such a situation Section 6 General Clauses Act, 1897 has no application which
specifically applies to repeal of an enactment only. It has also been
argued that since no similar provision as was earlier provided in the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 434 of 467
 old Section u/s 13 (1) (d) has been re-enacted by virtue of
Amendment Act, 2018 so it is clear that the intention of the
Legislature was that no such offence under the old section 13 (1) (d) in the absence of any element of quid-pro-quo or unde advantage to
the public servant concerned be made punishable. 524. In so far as the first argument of Ld. defence Counsel
regarding non-applicability of Section 6 General Clauses Act, 1897, is
concerned, I may state that the same does not hold ground at all in
view of the categorical pronouncement of Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India in the two cases Fibre Boards Private Limited, Bangalore Vs.
Commissioner of Income Tax, Bangalore ( 2015) 376 ITR 596 and
Shree Bhagwati Steel Rolling Mills Vs. Commissioner of Central
Excise and Another (2016) 3 Supreme Court Cases 643. Though
Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi has placed reliance upon the decisions
of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the two cases i.e. Rayala Corporation
(P) Ltd. and Ors. Vs. The Director of Enforcement, New Delhi ,
(Supra) and Kolhapur Canesugar Works Ltd. & Ors. Vs. Union
of India & Ors., (Supra) , but unfortunately Ld. Defence Counsel
has chosen to not present the latest position of law before this Court
as has been laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the two cases
i.e. Fibre Boards Private Limited (Supra) and Shree Bhagwati
Steel Rolling Mills (Supra). 525. While discussing the Rayala Corporation (P) Ltd. case
(Supra), Hon'ble Supreme Court in the Fibre Board case (Supra)
made the following observations: law, issued under the repealed Act or Regulation under an Act
 after its repeal and re-enactment. In that case Section 6 did

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 436 of 467
 not come up for consideration. Therefore the ratio of that case
 is not applicable to the present case. With respect we agree
 with the principles laid down by the Constitution Bench in Rayala Corporation Case (1969) 2 SCC 412. In our considered view
 the ratio of the said decision squarely applies to the case on
 hand." 27. Kolhapur Canesugar Works Ltd. (2000) 2 SCC 536 judgment also
 concerned itself with the applicability of Section 6 of the
 General Clauses Act to the deletion of Rule 10 and 10A of the
 Central Excise Rules on 6-8-1977. 28. An attempt was made in General Finance Co. v. CIT (2002) 7
 SCC 1
 to refer these two judgments to a larger bench on the
 point that an omission would not amount to a repeal for the
 purpose of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act. Though the
 Court found substance in the argument favouring the
 reference to a larger bench, ultimately it decided that the
 prosecution in cases of non-compliance with the provision
 therein contained was only transitional and cases covered by
 it were few and far between, and hence found on facts that it
 was not an appropriate case for reference to a larger bench. 29. We may also point out that in G.P. Singh's Principles of
 Statutory Interpretation, 12th Edition, the learned author has
 criticized the aforesaid judgments in the following terms: (At pp 697-698) 30. In view of what has been stated hereinabove, perhaps the
 appropriate course in the present case would have been to
 refer the aforesaid judgment to a larger Bench. But we do not
 find the need to do so in view of what is stated by us
 hereinbelow. 31. First and foremost, it will be noticed that two reasons
 were given in Rayala Corpn. (P) Ltd. (1969) 2 SCC 412 for
 distinguishing the Madhya Pradesh High Court judgment.
 Ordinarily, both reasons would form the ratio decidendi for the said decision and both reasons would be binding upon
 us. But we find that once it is held that Section 6 of the
 General Clauses Act would itself not apply to a rule which is
 subordinate legislation as it applies only to a Central Act or
 Regulation, it would be wholly unnecessary to state that on a
 construction of the word "repeal" in Section 6 of the General
 Clauses Act, "omissions" made by the legislature would not
 be included. Assume, on the other hand, that the
 Constitution Bench had given two reasons for the non-
 applicability of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act. In such
 a situation, obviously both reasons would be ratio decidendi
 and would be binding upon a subsequent bench. However,
 once it is found that Section 6 itself would not apply, it would
 be wholly superfluous to further state that on an
 interpretation of the word "repeal", an "omission" would not
 be included. We are, therefore, of the view that the second
 so-called ratio of the Constitution Bench in Rayala
 Corporation (P) Ltd. (1969) 2 SCC 412 cannot be said to be a ratio
 decidendi at all and is really in the nature of obiter dicta." (Emphasis supplied by me) 526. Hon'ble Supreme Court thereafter dealt with yet another issue
of implied repeal vis-a-vis applicability of Section 6 General Clauses
Act, 1897. However the said observations will also be worth referring
to over here. CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 438 of 467
 "32. Secondly, we find no reference to Section 6-A of the
 General Clauses Act in either of these Constitution Bench
 judgments. Section 6-A reads as follows: 33. A reading of this Section would show that a repeal by an
 amending Act can be by way of an express omission. This
 being the case, obviously the word "repeal" in both Section 6 and Section 24 would, therefore, include repeals by express
 omission. The absence of any reference to Section 6A,
 therefore, again undoes the binding effect of these two
 judgments on an application of the 'per incuriam' principle. 34. Thirdly, an earlier Constitution Bench judgment referred to
 earlier in this judgment, namely, State of Orissa v. M.A.
 Tulloch & Co. AIR 1964 SC 1284 has also been missed. The Court
 there stated: (SCR pp. 483-84 : AIR pp. 1294-95, para 21)
 "...Now, if the legislative intent to supersede the earlier law is
 the basis upon which the doctrine of implied repeal is founded
 could there be any incongruity in attributing to the later
 legislation the same intent which Section 6 presumes where
 the word 'repeal' is expressly used. So far as statutory
 construction is concerned, it is one of the cardinal principles of
 the law that there is no distinction or difference between an
 express provision and a provision which is necessarily implied,
 for it is only the form that differs in the two cases and there is
 no difference in intention or in substance. A repeal may be
 brought about by repugnant legislation, without even any
 reference to the Act intended to be repealed, for once
 legislative competence to effect a repeal is posited, it matters
 little whether this is done expressly or inferentially or by the
 enactment of repugnant legislation. If such is the basis upon
 which repeals and implied repeals are brought about it appears
 to us to be both logical as well as in accordance with the
 principles upon which the rule as to implied repeal rests to
 attribute to that legislature which effects a repeal by necessary
 implication the same intention as that which would attend the

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 439 of 467
 case of an express repeal. Where an intention to effect a
 repeal is attributed to a legislature then the same would, in our
 opinion, attract the incident of the saving found in Section 6 for
 the rules of construction embodied in the General Clauses Act are, so to speak, the basic assumptions on which statutes are
 drafted." (emphasis supplied) 35. The two later Constitution Bench judgments also did not
 have the benefit of the aforesaid exposition of the law. It is
 clear that even an implied repeal of a statute would fall within
 the expression "repeal" in Section 6 of the General Clauses
 Act. This is for the reason given by the Constitution Bench in
 M.A. Tulloch & Company that only the form of repeal differs but
 there is no difference in intent or substance. If even an implied
 repeal is covered by the expression "repeal", it is clear that
 repeals may take any form and so long as a statute or part of it
 is obliterated, such obliteration would be covered by the
 expression "repeal" in Section 6 of the General Clauses Act. 36. In fact in Halsbury's Laws of England, Fourth Edn., it is
 stated that: 37. At this stage, it is important to note that a temporary statute
 does not attract the provision of Section 6 of the General
 Clauses Act only for the reason that the said statute expires by
 itself after the period for which it has been promulgated ends.
 In such cases, there is no repeal for the reason that the
 legislature has not applied its mind to a live statute and
 obliterated it. In all cases where a temporary statute expires,
 the statute expires of its own force without being obliterated by
 a subsequent legislative enactment. But even in this area, if a
 temporary statute is in fact repealed at a point of time earlier
 than its expiry, it has been held that Section 6 of the General
 Clauses Act would apply. (See: State of Punjab v. Mohar
 Singh AIR 1955 SC 84 SCR at p. 898.) 38. In CIT v. Venkateswara Hatcheries (P) Ltd. (1999 3 SCC 632), this

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 440 of 467
 Court was faced with an omission and re-enactment of two
 Sections of the Income Tax Act. This Court found that Section
 24 of the General Clauses Act would apply to such omission
 and re-enactment. The Court has stated as follows: (SCC p.
 638, para 12)
 "12. As noticed earlier, the omission of Section 2(27) and re-
 enactment of Section 80-JJ was done simultaneously. It is a
 very well-recognized rule of interpretation of statutes that
 where a provision of an Act is omitted by an Act and the said
 Act simultaneously re-enacts a new provision which
 substantially covers the field occupied by the repealed
 provision with certain modification, in that event such re-
 enactment is regarded having force continuously and the
 modification or changes are treated as amendment coming into
 force with effect from the date of enforcement of the re-enacted
 provision." (Emphasis supplied by me) 527. Subsequently the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the Fibre Board case (Supra) again come up for consideration in the case Shree Bhagwati Steel Rolling Mills (Supra). It would be thus
appropriate to reproduce the observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court
as were made in the said case also: Likewise the expression "omit" is also defined by this
 Thesaurus as follows: And the expression "repeal" is defined as follows: 13. On a conjoint reading of the three expressions "delete",
 "omit", and "repeal", it becomes clear that "delete" and "omit"
 are used interchangeably, so that when the expression
 "repeal" refers to "delete" it would necessarily take within its
 ken an omission as well. This being the case, we do not find
 any substance in the argument that a "repeal" amounts to an
 obliteration from the very beginning, whereas an "omission"
 is only in futuro. If the expression "delete" would amount to a
 "repeal", which the Appellant's counsel does not deny, it is
 clear that a conjoint reading of Halsbury's Laws of England

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 442 of 467
 and the Legal Thesaurus cited hereinabove both lead to the
 same result, namely that an "omission" being tantamount to a
 "deletion" is a form of repeal. 14. Learned Counsel's second argument that Section 6A of
 the General Clauses Act when it speaks of an "omission"
 only speaks of an "amendment" which omits and, therefore
 does not refer to a repeal is equally fallacious. In Bhagat
 Ram Sharma v. Union of India , this Court held that there is
 no real distinction between a repeal and an amendment and
 that "amendment" is in fact a wider term which includes
 deletion of a provision in an existing statute. In the said
 judgment , this Court held: An amendment of substantive law is not retrospective unless
 expressly laid down or by necessary' implication inferred. (emphasis supplied) 15. It is clear, therefore, that when this Court referred to Section 6A of the Generals Clauses Act in Fibre Board 's case
 and held that Section 6A shows that a repeal can be by way
 of an express omission, obviously what was meant was that
 an amendment which repealed a provision could do so by
 way of an express omission. This being the case, it is clear
 that Section 6A undisputedly leads to the conclusion that a
 repeal would include a repeal by way of an express
 omission. 16. The Learned Counsel then argued that while
 distinguishing the Madhya Pradesh High Court's judgment in
 Rayala Corporation, a Constitution Bench of this Court
 expressly held as the first reason that Section 6 applies only
 to repeals and not to omissions. The Fibre Board's judgment
 has clearly held as follows: 17. Merely because the Constitution Bench referred to a
 repeal not amounting to an omission as the first reason given
 for distinguishing the Madhya Pradesh High Court's judgment
 would not undo the effect of ITR para 27 SCC para 31 of Fibre Board 's case which, as has already been stated, clearly
 makes the distinction between Section 6 not applying at all
 and Section 6 being construed in a particular manner.
 Obviously, if the Section were not to apply at all, any
 construction of the Section would necessarily be in the
 nature of obiter dicta. 18. We also find that Section 6 of the General Clauses Act
 could not possibly apply to the facts in Rayala Corporation's
 case for yet another reason. Clause 2 of Rule 132-A of the
 Defence of India (amendment) Rules, 1965 which was
 referred to in para 14 of the judgment in Rayala Corporation
 reads as follows: 19. A cursory reading of Clause 2 shows that after omitting
 Rule 132A of the Defence of India Rules, 1962, the provision
 contains its own saving clause. This being the case, Section
 6 can in any case have no application as Section 6 only
 applies to a Central Act or Regulation "unless a different
 intention appears". A different intention clearly appears on a
 reading of Clause 2 as only a very limited savings clause is
 incorporated therein. In fact, this aspect is noticed by the
 Constitution Bench in para 18 of its judgment, in which the
 Constitution Bench states: 20. It was then urged before us that Section 31 of the
 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 would also lead to the
 conclusion that Parliament itself is cognizant of the fact that
 an omission cannot amount to a repeal. Section 31 of the
 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, states as follows: Sections 161 to 165A (both inclusive) of the Indian Penal
 Code , 1860 (45 of 1860) shall be omitted, and Section 6 of
 the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), shall apply to
 such omission as if the said sections had been repealed by a
 Central Act." 21. It is settled law that Parliament is presumed to know the
 law when it enacts a particular piece of legislation. The
 Prevention of Corruption Act was passed in the year 1988,
 that is long after 1969 when the Constitution Bench decision
 in Rayala Corporation had been delivered. It is, therefore,
 presumed that Parliament enacted Section 31 knowing that
 the decision in Rayala Corporation had stated that an
 omission would not amount to a repeal and it is for this
 reason that Section 31 was enacted. This again does not
 take us further as this statement of the law in Rayala
 Corporation is no longer the law declared by the Supreme
 Court after the decision in the Fibre Board 's case. This
 reason therefore again cannot avail the Appellant. 22. The reference to the savings provision in Section 1 of the
 Contract Act again does not take us very much further as the
 expression "repeal" as has been pointed out above can be of
 part of an enactment also. This being the case, when the
 legislature uses the word "omit" it usually does so when it
 wishes to delete a particular section as opposed to deleting
 an entire Act. As has been noticed both in Fibre Board 's case
 and hereinabove, these are all expressions which only go to
 form and not to substance." (Emphasis supplied by me) 528. The Hon'ble Court further went on to observe in Para 23 as
under: 529. Thus it has been specifically held by Hon'ble Supreme court
that omission of an enactment would amount to repeal of the
enactment. The Court while dealing with the meaning of various
terms such as "repeal", "amendment" and "omission" also observed
that mere use of certain terminologies by the Legislature be it
"repeal", "amendment" or "omission" is of no consequence as the
effect of the three terms is primarily the same. Thus from the aforesaid discussion, it is clear that the
contention of Ld. defence Counsel that Section 6 of General
Clauses Act, 1897 would not have any application to the omission of
old section 13 (1) (d) by the Amendment Act, 2018 is clearly not
tenable., 530. Coming now to the second limb of argument that the
Legislature by way of Amendment Act, 2018 has expressed its
categorical intention that only such offences relating to public
servants will be punishable where there is element of quid-pro-quo or
undue advantage to the public servant concerned or any attempt has
been made by him in this regard. Thus as regard the offence of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 447 of 467
 criminal misconduct, it was submitted that while deleting the old
provision of Section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988 and by not re-enacting
any such similar provision, the Legislature has clearly expressed its
intention that the earlier defined offences u/s 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act 1988
shall no longer be an offence. 531. Before I advert on to deal with the aforesaid contention, it
would be appropriate to refer to certain observations of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case State of Punjab Vs Mohar Singh,
(Supra ). In fact Ld. Defence Counsel has also relied upon the said
case in support of his arguments. In case of repeal of a provision by
a new Act, Hon'ble Supreme Court while discussing as to whether
the rights and liabilities under the repealed law remain alive or not
laid down, the line of enquiry as under: 532. The aforesaid observations were also referred to by Hon'ble
supreme Court in a recent case titled Gunwantlal Godawat Vs.
Union of India and Another (2018) 12 Supreme Court Cases 309. While referring to the observations made in Mohar Singh case

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 448 of 467
 (Supra) Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: 533. Thus from the aforesaid observations it is clear that the mere
absence of a saving clause in the new enactment preserving the
rights and liabilities under the repealed enactment is neither material
nor decisive of the question as to whether the rights and liabilities
under the repealed law have been put to an end to by the new
enactment or not. What is required to be seen is whether the new
enactment has taken away those rights and liabilities which were in
existence under the repealed law. Thus in order to answer the
question as to whether the Amendment Act, 2018 takes away the
rights and liabilities which were in existence under the old section 13
(1) (d) or not, it would be appropriate to refer to the objects and
reasons which warranted bringing in of the Amendment Act, 2018.
The same are clearly instructive of ascertaining the intention of
Legislature in bringing in Amendment Act, 2018. The statement of objects and reasons read as under: (c) as the proposed new definitions of bribery, both
 as regards the solicitation and acceptance of undue
 advantage and as regards the promise, offering or giving, to a
 public official, directly or indirectly, of an undue advantage, are

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 450 of 467
 found to be comprehensive enough to cover all offences
 presently provided in section 8 which covers taking
 gratification, in order, by corrupt or illegal means, to influence
 public servant; section 9 which covers taking gratification, for
 exercise of personal influence with public servant; section 10 which provides for punishment for abetment by public servant
 of offences defined in section 8 or section 9 ; and section 11 which provides for public servant obtaining valuable thing
 without consideration from person concerned in proceeding or
 business transacted by such public servant; and also the
 offences presently defined in clauses (a), (b) and (d) of sub-
 section (1) of section 13 of the Act which covers criminal
 misconduct by a public servant, it is proposed to omit the said
 sections; (d) it is proposed to substitute section 9 to provide
 punishment for the offence relating to bribing a public servant
 by a commercial organisation. A commercial organisation will
 be guilty of this offence if any person associated with it offers,
 promises or gives a financial or other advantage to a public
 servant intending to obtain or retain business or some
 advantage in the conduct of business for the commercial
 organisation. The proposed section 10 provides for
 punishment of persons in charge of a commercial organisation
 which has been guilty of the offence under the proposed section 9 ; (e) section 12 at present provides for punishment
 for abetment of offences defined in section 7 or section 11 . It
 is proposed to substitute section 12 of the Act to provide
 punishment for abetment of all offences under the Act; (f) it is proposed to substitute sub-section (1) of section 13 with a new subsection so as to omit the existing
 clauses (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (1) as mentioned
 above; to incorporate the element of intentional enrichment in
 the existing clause (e) relating to possession of
 disproportionate assets by a public servant; and to modify the
 definition of "known sources of income" as contained in
 Explanation, to mean income received from any lawful source,
 that is, by doing away with the requirement of intimation in
 accordance with any law, rules or orders applicable to a public
 servant; (g) section 14 at present provides for habitual
 commission of offences under section 8 , 9 and 12 . It is
 proposed to substitute section 14 of the Act to provide
 punishment for habitual commission of all offences under the
 Act; CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 451 of 467 (h) the Prevention of Corruption Act , at present,
 does not specifically provide for the confiscation of bribe and
 the proceeds of bribery. A Bill, namely, the Prevention of
 Corruption (Amendment) Bill, 2008, to amend the Prevention
 of Corruption Act, 1988 , providing, inter alia, for insertion of a
 new Chapter IV-A in the Prevention of Corruption Act for the
 attachment and forfeiture of property of corrupt public servants
 on the lines of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Ordinance,
 1944, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 19 th December,
 2008 and was passed by the Lok Sabha on 23 rd December,
 2008. However, the said Bill lapsed due to dissolution of the
 Fourteenth Lok Sabha. It is proposed to insert similar
 provisions on the lines of the 2008 Bill in the Prevention of
 Corruption Act; (i) the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Bill,
 2008 had proposed an amendment to section 19 of the Act on
 the lines of section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
 1973 for extending protection of prior sanction of the
 Government or competent authority after retirement or
 deminance of office by a public servant so as to provide a
 safeguard to a public servant from vexatious prosecution for
 any bona fide omission or commission in the discharge of his
 official duties. The said Bill having lapsed, this protection is, at
 present, not available for a person who has ceased to be a
 public servant. Section 19 is, therefore, proposed to be
 amended to provide the said protection to the persons who
 ceased to be public servants on the lines of the said Bill.
 Further, in the light of a recent judgment of the Supreme
 Court, the question of amending section 19 of the Act to lay
 down clear criteria and procedure for sanction of prosecution,
 including the stage at which sanction can be sought, timelines
 within which order has to be passed, was also examined by
 the Central Government and it is proposed to incorporate
 appropriate provisions in section 19 of the Act; (j) section 6-A of the Delhi Special Police
 Establishment Act, 1946 contains a protection of prior
 approval of the Central Government in respect of officers
 working at policy making levels in the Central Government
 before any inquiry or investigation is conducted against them
 by the Delhi Special Police Establishment. The basic principle
 behind the protection under section 19 of the Prevention of
 Corruption Act, 1988 and section 6-A of the Delhi Special
 Police Establishment Act, 1946, being the same, namely,
 protection of honest civil servants from harassment by way of
 investigation or prosecution for things done in bonda fide

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 452 of 467
 performance of pubic duty, it is felt that the protection under
 both these provisions should be available to public servants
 even after they cease to be public servants or after they cease
 to hold sensitive policy level position, as the case may be.
 Accordingly, it is proposed to amend section 6-A of the Delhi
 Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 for extending the
 protection of prior approval of the Central Government before
 conducting any inquiry or investigation in respect of offences
 under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , to civil servants
 holding such senior policy level positions even after they
 cease to hold such positions due to reversion or retirement or
 other reasons. 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. (Emphasis supplied by me) 534. Thus from a bare perusal of the aforesaid objects and
reasons of the Amendment Act, 2018 coupled with the various
provisions so incorporated in the Principal Act, it is clear that the
prime reason for introducing various amendments in the existing Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 was that no offence in the
absence of existence of malafide intention on the part of public
servant concerned in committing a given act or omission be made
punishable. The objects and reasons further states that the
amendment in the Principal Act have been necessitated on account
of ratification by India of the United Nations Convention against
Corruption, the international practice on treatment of the offence of
bribery and corruption and judicial pronouncements. These all factors
thus necessitated a review of the existing provisions of the Act. While
describing the salient features of the Bill, it has been further provided
in Clause 2 (c) of the statement of objects and reasons that as the
proposed new definition of bribery is comprehensive enough to cover

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 453 of 467
 all offences presently provided in Section 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and also the
offences presently defined in clauses (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section
(1) of Section 13 of the Act which covers criminal misconduct by a
public servant so it is proposed to omit the said section. Thus it is
clear that the Legislature never intended to do away with the earlier
provisions in the Principal Act but chose to omit the same as it was of
the opinion that the new provisions being brought in by the
Amendment Act of 2018 comprehensively covered the earlier
provisions including that of criminal misconduct as defined in Clauses (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 13 of the Act. However
the only difference which has been introduced in the Principal Act by
way of the Amendment Act of 2018 is the element of intention i.e.
mens rea for every offence under the P.C. Act . In this regard I have
no hesitation in saying that the necessity to specifically introduce the
element of guilty intention i.e. mens rea for all the offences under P.C.
Act primarily arose on account of certain judicial pronouncements of
the higher Courts of land. By way of some such judicial
pronouncements it has been held that the offence u/s 13 (1) (d) (iii) P.C. Act which read as under, does not require existence of element
of mens rea on the part of public servant concerned. 535. Further a perusal of the 69 th report of Parliamentary Standing
Committee titled "The Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Bill,
2013" as has also been relied upon by Ld. Defence Counsel in

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 454 of 467
 support of his arguments also shows that the intention of the
Legislature was primarily to make only such offences punishable
under the Prevention of Corruption Act which are coupled with
malafide intention on the part of public servant concerned. The said
report also states that the said concern arose on account of certain
judicial decisions given by the higher Courts of the land. Certainly the
element of quid-pro-quo has also been introduced in the new
offences which have been brought on the statute book by way of
Amendment Act of 2018. However as is observed in the cases Mohar
Singh (Supra) and Gunwantlal Godawat (Supra), what is required to
be seen is whether in the new enactment any intention contrary to
that of earlier provisions (repealed provisions) appears or not. It is
not to be seen as to whether the new enactment by its new provisions
has kept alive the rights and liabilities under the repealed law or not
but whether the new enactment has taken away the rights and
liabilities which arose under the repealed law. 536. At this stage, it would be now worthwhile to have a brief
glance over Section 6 General Clauses Act, 1897 which read as
under : and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may
 be instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty,
 forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if the repealing
 Act or Regulation had not been passed." 537. Thus in view of my aforesaid discussion, it is crystal clear that
the Amendment Act of 2018 in no way affect the continuation of the
present proceedings or passing of final judgment in any manner. It
also does not in any manner affect the conviction of any accused
under the old Section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, if the prosecution is
successful in proving the same. However it is once again reiterated
that on account of amendment so brought in, the only requirement
which is required to be fulfilled by the prosecution is that the element
of guilty intention i.e. mens rea ought to be proved for all the offences
under the P.C. Act, 1988 including qua old section 13 (1) (d) (iii) P.C.
Act, 1988. 538. For the aforesaid reasons the other argument of Ld. Defence
Counsel that as old Section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act no longer exists on
statute book so no punishment can be imposed by this Court also
does not hold ground. Section 6 General Clauses Act, 1897 as has
been discussed and reproduced above clearly takes away the very

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 456 of 467
 ground beneath the said argument of Ld. Defence Counsel. 539. Thus it stands conclusively established that the Prevention of
Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018 does not in any manner affect the
continuation of present proceedings under the old section 13 (1) (d) and more so when I have already discussed and concluded that
various acts and omissions were committed by the accused public
servants with malafide intention. However for academic purposes the matter can be
viewed from yet another angle also. 540. As has been repeatedly asserted by the Legislature while
enacting the original law of P.C. Act right from the year 1947 onwards
or while introducing various Amendment Acts that the whole
emphasis has been towards preventing and curtailing acts of
corruption on the part of public servants. No one can argue that this
has not been the intention of the Legislature at any point of time.
Thus if in the light of the aforesaid undisputed objective of introducing
such a law, the argument of Ld. Defence Counsel that no legal
proceedings under the repealed provisions can be continued is
accepted as correct then a situation will arise where a public servant,
if required to be prosecuted for any act or omission committed by him
prior to 26.07.2018 i.e. the date when Amendment Act of 2018 was
notified then he can be prosecuted only under the new Section 7 or Section 13 of P.C. Act as have been introduced by the Amendment
Act of 2018 but not under the old section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act. Of

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 457 of 467
 course initiation of such a prosecution would be only when all the
ingredients of the offence is prima facie attracted and all other
safeguards protecting an honest public servant are taken care of.
However such a situation will clearly violate the fundamental right of
the person concerned as has been provided to him under Article 20
(1) of the Constitution of India which read as under: 541. Thus we will have a situation where a public servant will have
to be prosecuted for an act or omission committed by him for an
offence which in fact was not in existence on the day when the
alleged act or omission was committed. Certainly such a course of
action is neither warranted under law nor can be the intention of the
Legislature while introducing Amendment Act of 2018. 542. Alternatively if a public servant can not be prosecuted for the
offences as have been provided under new sections 7 and 13 P.C.
Act as have been introduced by way of Amendment Act of 2018 then
as per the contention of Ld. Defence Counsel we will have a situation
where on account of repealing of old Section 13 (1) (a) , (b) and (d) P.C. Act, 1988 there exists no law to prosecute and punish a public
servant for any act of misdemeanor committed by him. Certainly to
keep the field free or to absolve all the public servants of all wrong
doings which may attract criminal prosecution could not have been

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 458 of 467
 the intention of Legislature. More over such an interpretation of law
would certainly have an impact on the general administration of law
and public good. As was observed in case Shree Bhagwati Steel
Rolling Mills (Supra) that such an interpretation would cause great
public mischief. 543. More over the new offence of criminal misconduct as has
been defined u/s 13 P.C. Act provides an enhanced punishment by
stating that such a public servant who commits criminal misconduct
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall be not
less than four years but which may extend to ten years and shall
also be liable to fine. 544. However under the old Section 13 the minimum punishment
provided was only one year and maximum punishment was upto 7
years only. Thus if a public servant is prosecuted and punished under
a new provision for an act or omission committed by him prior to
coming into force of the Amendment Act of 2018 then he will be again
subjected to a higher degree of punishment and thereby violating his
fundamental right under Article 20 (1) Constitution of India. Such an
interpretation will also thus lead to an absurd situation and which also
could not be the intention of Legislature. 545. It was also submitted that the Legislature while bringing in the
Amendment Act of 2018 did not choose to mention anything either
under section 30 or under section 31 P.C. Act about applicability of Section 6 General Clauses Act, 1897 or that any action purported to

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 459 of 467
 have been done under the repealed provisions shall not be affected
or that the same shall be deemed to have been done under new P.C.
Act . It was thus submitted that the intention of the Legislature was
clear that any action taken or purported to have been taken under the
repealed provisions will not hold ground any longer. 546. In this regard the observations made by Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case Gunwantlal Godawat (Supra) are reproduced as
under: 547. Thus mere absence of a saving clause qua any action taken
or purported to have been taken under the old section 13 (1) (d) P.C.
Act is completely immaterial in ascertaining as to whether the rights
and liabilities under the repealed law or the legal proceedings
instituted and continued under the repealed provision have come to
an end or not. 548. For all the aforesaid reasons, I am thus of the considered
opinion that Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 2018 does
not in any manner affects the continuation of the present legal
proceedings against the accused public servants or imposition of any

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 460 of 467
 punishment upon them in case of their conviction as was provided
under the old section 13 (1) (d) P.C. Act, 1988. (O) FINAL CONCLUSION 549. Since it has been now concluded beyond shadows of all
reasonable doubts that all the six accused persons i.e. A-1 M/s
VMPL, A-2 Vikash Patni, A-3 Anand Mallick, A-4 H.C. Gupta, A-5 K.S.
Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria conspired together so as to procure
allocation of a captive coal block i.e. Moira-Madhujore coal block in
favour of A-1 M/s VMPL and that too for its existing plant at Purulia
West Bengal and finally achieved the said object of the criminal
conspiracy by undertaking various acts of cheating MOC,
Government of India and by various acts constituting the offence of
criminal misconduct as defined under P.C. Act, 1988 so I accordingly
also hold them guilty of the offences u/s 120-B IPC r/w Section
420 IPC and Section 13 (1) (d) (ii) / 13 (1) (d) (iii) P.C. Act, 1988 and
convict them thereunder beside also convicting them for the
substantive offences as already mentioned in the earlier part of
the judgment. 550. In view of the detailed discussion and the conclusions drawn
by me here-in-above my final conclusion as regard various offences
for which charges were framed against the accused persons may be
now summarized as under: (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. 120-B IPC r/w S. 420 IPC
 409/420 IPC and Section and section 13(1)(d) 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d) (ii) / 13(1)(d)(iii) P.C. Act,
 P.C. Act, 1988 1988. Acquitted for the offence
 u/s 120-B IPC r/w S. 409 IPC and Section 13 (1) (c) P.C. Act, 1988
 2 A-2 Vikash (i) 120-B IPC 420 IPC Convicted for the offence
 Patni u/s 120-B IPC ; S. 420 (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. IPC ; 120-B IPC r/w S. 420 409 / 420 IPC and Section IPC and section 13(1)(d) 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d) (ii) / 13(1)(d)(iii) P.C. Act,
 P.C. Act, 1988 1988. Acquitted for the offence
 u/s 120-B IPC r/w S. 409 IPC and Section 13 (1) (c) P.C. Act, 1988
 3 A-3 Anand (i)120-B IPC 420 IPC Convicted for the offence
 Mallick u/s 120-B IPC ; S. 420 (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. IPC ; 120-B IPC r/w S. 420 409 / 420 IPC and Section IPC and section 13(1)(d) 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d) (ii) / 13(1)(d)(iii) P.C. Act,
 P.C. Act, 1988 1988. Acquitted for the offence
 u/s 120-B IPC r/w S. 409 IPC and Section 13 (1) (c) P.C. Act, 1988
 4 A-4 H.C. (i) 120-B IPC (i) Sec. Convicted for the offence
 Gupta 409 IPC u/s 120-B IPC ; Section (ii) u/s 120-B IPC r/w Sec. 13(1)(d)(ii) and 13(1)(d) 409 / 420 IPC and Section (ii) 13 (1) (iii) P.C. Act, 1988 ; 120B
 13 (1) (c) and 13 (1) (d) (c) / 13 r/w 420 IPC and section P.C. Act, 1988 (1) (d) P.C. 13(1)(d)(ii)/13(1)(d)(iii)
 Act, 1988 P.C. Act, 1988 . 551. In view of the extensive discussion of the prosecution case as
has been undertaken in the present judgment and especially keeping
in view the nature of investigation carried out in the present case,
followed by filing of closure report by CBI, I deem it appropriate that a
copy of the present judgment be placed before Director, CBI for

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 463 of 467
 information. I also intend to express my sincere concern about the
nature of investigation being carried out by CBI in various coal block
allocation matters and though the conclusions drawn in the final
report to be submitted in any matter by CBI entirely depends upon the
facts and circumstances of a given case and has to be also as per
the decision of the investigating agency taken at its own level and
Courts certainly can not interfere in any such conclusion being drawn
by the investigating agency, but this court earnestly hopes that in
future whatever conclusions are drawn by the CBI in any matter will
be duly supported by logical, legal and rationale reasons. 552. I would also like to point out one other disturbing feature
which came up before this Court during the course of trial of the
present case. In the written submissions filed by Ld. Counsel Sh.
Rahul Tyagi for A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria, he also
strongly argued that while prosecuting accused public servants, who
were officers of Ministry of Coal, certain other public servants who
were also members of 36th Screening Committee being the
representatives of Administrative Ministries or State Governments
were left out. In this regard attention of the Court was drawn to the
role of Sh. U.P. Singh the then Joint Secretary, Ministry of Steel who
represented Ministry of Steel in 36 th Screening Committee meeting
and especially the one held on 03.07.2008. Similarly, reference was
also made to the role of DW 5 Bhaskar Khulbe, who was representing
State of West Bengal in the Screening Committee meeting held on
03.07.2008. Though, during the course of extensive discussion as

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 464 of 467
 has been undertaken in the present judgment, I have already
observed that the role of other officers be that of Ministry of Coal or of
Ministry of Steel or of any other department may, if required can be
considered in some other appropriate proceedings. However, what is
being looked into in the present proceedings is the role played by the
present three accused officers of Ministry of Coal i.e. A-4 H.C. Gupta,
A-5 K.S. Kropha and A-6 K.C. Samria. Moreover, while it can be
argued that other persons also ought to have been tried for the
various acts of omission and commission undertaken by them but
certainly no accused can ever claim that he alone ought not to be
prosecuted if any other person is not being prosecuted. 553. Be that as it may, in the written submissions filed by Ld.
Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi, the following facts have also been
mentioned in para 16.3. 554. Though I am not commenting anything as to the veracity
or correctness of the aforesaid averments made by Ld. Counsel for
accused public servants since no such record has been placed
before me but if there is any iota of truth in the said submissions then

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 465 of 467
 the same speaks volumes about the conduct of the officers of CBI in
investigating other various coal block allocation matters. The opinion
expressed by various officers of CBI or the result being drawn by CBI
during the course of investigation of other coal block allocation
matters in which no final report has yet been filed before this Court is
being shared by them with persons outside the agency. This fact
gains material importance and raises eye brows especially when
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in its Order dated 08.05.2013 in the
case Manohar Lal Sharma vs The Principle Secretary & Ors in
W.P. (C) No. 463 of 2012, passed the following directions [In the said
case Hon'ble Supreme Court of India is primarily monitoring the
investigation of coal block allocation matters conducted by CBI]. 555. Thus, it is clear that CBI is even not paying any heed to the
specific directions passed by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in all
such matters much less keeping intact the very sanctity of the
investigation being carried out by it in various coal block allocation
matters. In fact the aforesaid averments in the written submissions
filed by Ld. Counsel Sh. Rahul Tyagi for accused public servants tend
to throw light as to the conduct of Investigating Agency in

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 466 of 467
 investigation of various coal block allocation matters and especially to
the circumstances in which closure reports are being filed in a
number of coal block allocation matters including the present matter. 556. I am thus not delving any further into the said issue as
sufficient food for thought for appropriate remedial measures has
been provided to CBI, lest a mockery is made of the Criminal Justice Digitally signed Administration System. BHARAT by BHARAT PARASHAR PARASHAR Date: 2018.11.30
 12:09:10 +0530

ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT (BHARAT PARASHAR)
TODAY ON 30.11.2018 SPECIAL JUDGE, (PC ACT)
 CBI-07, NEW DELHI DISTRICT
 PATIALA HOUSE COURTS
 NEW DELHI

CBI Vs. M/s Vikash Metal & Power Ltd. & Ors., Judgment dated 30.11.2018 Page No. 467 of 467