and held as follows: to imply that the act or omission must have been done by the public
 servant in course of his service and that it should have been in
 discharge of his duty. Section 197 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure does not extend its protective cover to every act or
 omission done by a public servant while in service. The scope of
 operation of the section is restricted to only those acts or omissions
 which are done by a public servant in discharge of official duty." 25. Thus, this court has been consistent in holding that
 Section 197 Cr. P.C. does not extend its protective cover to every act
 or omission of a public servant while in service. It is restricted to
 only those acts or omissions which are done by public servants in
 the discharge of official duties." 22. In State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal10 the Hon'ble Supreme Court held the
 following:- 23. The following was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ahmad Ali
 Quraishi v. State of U.P.11 "10. Before we enter into facts of the present case and submissions
 made by the learned counsel for the parties, it is necessary to look
 into the scope and ambit of inherent jurisdiction which is exercised
 by the High Court under Section 482 CrPC. This Court had the
 occasion to consider the scope and jurisdiction of Section 482 CrPC. This Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of
 Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri)
 426] , had elaborately considered the scope and ambit of Section
 482 CrPC/Article 226 of the Constitution in the context of quashing
 the criminal proceedings. In para 102, this Court enumerated seven
 categories of cases where power can be exercised under Article 226 of the Constitution/ Section 482 CrPC by the High Court for quashing
 the criminal proceedings. Para 102 is as follows : (SCC pp. 378-79)
 "102. In the backdrop of the interpretation of the various relevant
 provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV and of the principles of
 law enunciated by this Court in a series of decisions relating to the
 exercise of the extraordinary power under Article 226 or the inherent
 powers under Section 482 of the Code which we have extracted and
 reproduced above, we give the following categories of cases by way
 of illustration wherein such power could be exercised either to
 prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the
 ends of justice, though it may not be possible to lay down any
 precise, clearly defined and sufficiently channelised and inflexible 11 (2020) 13 SCC 435 31 guidelines or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad
kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised.
(1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the
complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in
their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a
case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other
materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable
offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section
156(1) of the Code except under an order of a Magistrate within the
purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or
complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not
disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against
the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable
offence but constitute only a non-cognizable offence, no investigation
is permitted by a police officer without an order of a Magistrate as
contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd
and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person
can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for
proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the
provisions of the Code or the Act concerned (under which a criminal
proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the
proceedings and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code or
the Act concerned, providing efficacious redress for the grievance of
the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala
fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an 32 ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a
view to spite him due to private and personal grudge."
xxx 12. This Court time and again has examined the scope of
jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 482 CrPC and laid down
several principles which govern the exercise of jurisdiction of the
High Court under Section 482 CrPC. A three-Judge Bench of this
Court in State of Karnataka v. L. Muniswamy [State of
Karnataka v. L. Muniswamy, (1977) 2 SCC 699 : 1977 SCC (Cri)
404] , held that the High Court is entitled to quash a proceeding if it
comes to the conclusion that allowing the proceeding to continue
would be an abuse of the process of the court or that the ends of
justice require that the proceeding ought to be quashed. In para 7 of
the judgment, the following has been stated : (SCC p. 703)
"7. ... In the exercise of this wholesome power, the High Court is
entitled to quash a proceeding if it comes to the conclusion that
allowing the proceeding to continue would be an abuse of the
process of the court or that the ends of justice require that the
proceeding ought to be quashed. The saving of the High Court's
inherent powers, both in civil and criminal matters, is designed to
achieve a salutary public purpose which is that a court proceeding
ought not to be permitted to degenerate into a weapon of
harassment or persecution. In a criminal case, the veiled object
behind a lame prosecution, the very nature of the material on which
the structure of the prosecution rests and the like would justify the
High Court in quashing the proceeding in the interest of justice. The
ends of justice are higher than the ends of mere law though justice
has got to be administered according to laws made by the
legislature. The compelling necessity for making these observations
is that without a proper realisation of the object and purpose of the
provision which seeks to save the inherent powers of the High Court
to do justice, between the State and its subjects, it would be 33 impossible to appreciate the width and contours of that salient
jurisdiction." (emphasis supplied) 13. A three-Judge Bench in State of Karnataka v. M.
Devendrappa [State of Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa, (2002) 3 SCC
89 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 539] , had the occasion to consider the ambit of Section 482 CrPC. By analysing the scope of Section 482 CrPC, this
Court laid down that authority of the court exists for advancement of
justice and if any attempt is made to abuse that authority so as to
produce injustice, the court has power to prevent abuse. It further
held that court would be justified to quash any proceeding if it finds
that initiation/continuance of it amounts to abuse of the process of
court or quashing of these proceedings would otherwise serve the
ends of justice. The following was laid down in para 6 : (SCC p. 94)
"6. ... All courts, whether civil or criminal possess, in the absence of
any express provision, as inherent in their constitution, all such
powers as are necessary to do the right and to undo a wrong in
course of administration of justice on the principle quando lex aliquid
alicui concedit, concedere videtur et id sine quo res ipsae esse non
potest (when the law gives a person anything it gives him that
without which it cannot exist). While exercising powers under the
section, the court does not function as a court of appeal or revision.
Inherent jurisdiction under the section though wide has to be
exercised sparingly, carefully and with caution and only when such
exercise is justified by the tests specifically laid down in the section
itself. It is to be exercised ex debito justitiae to do real and
substantial justice for the administration of which alone courts exist.
Authority of the court exists for advancement of justice and if any
attempt is made to abuse that authority so as to produce injustice,
the court has power to prevent abuse. It would be an abuse of
process of the court to allow any action which would result in
injustice and prevent promotion of justice. In exercise of the powers 34 court would be justified to quash any proceeding if it finds that
initiation/continuance of it amounts to abuse of the process of court
or quashing of these proceedings would otherwise serve the ends of
justice. When no offence is disclosed by the complaint, the court may
examine the question of fact. When a complaint is sought to be
quashed, it is permissible to look into the materials to assess what
the complainant has alleged and whether any offence is made out
even if the allegations are accepted in toto." 14. Further in para 8 the following was stated : ( Devendrappa case [ State of Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa , (2002) 3 SCC 89 : circuit a prosecution and bring about its sudden death. The scope of
exercise of power under Section 482 of the Code and the categories
of cases where the High Court may exercise its power under it
relating to cognizable offences to prevent abuse of process of any
court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice were set out in some
detail by this Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of
Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri)
426] ." xxx 16. After considering the earlier several judgments of this Court
including the case of State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of
Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri)
426] , in Vineet Kumar [Vineet Kumar v. State of U.P. , (2017) 13 SCC
369 : (2017) 4 SCC (Cri) 633] , this Court laid down following in para 35 41 : ( Vineet Kumar case [ Vineet Kumar v. State of U.P. , (2017) 13
SCC 369 : (2017) 4 SCC (Cri) 633] , SCC p. 387)
"41. Inherent power given to the High Court under Section 482 CrPC
is with the purpose and object of advancement of justice. In case
solemn process of Court is sought to be abused by a person with
some oblique motive, the Court has to thwart the attempt at the very
threshold. The Court cannot permit a prosecution to go on if the case
falls in one of the categories as illustratively enumerated by this
Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan
Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426] . Judicial process
is a solemn proceeding which cannot be allowed to be converted into
an instrument of operation or harassment. When there are materials
to indicate that a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with
mala fide and proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior
motive, the High Court will not hesitate in exercise of its jurisdiction
under Section 482 CrPC to quash the proceeding under Category 7
as enumerated in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of
Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri)
426] , which is to the following effect : (SCC p. 379, para 102)
'102. ... (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with
mala fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with
an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with
a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.'
Above Category 7 is clearly attracted in the facts of the present case. Although, the High Court [ Vineet Kumar v. State of U.P. , 2016 SCC
OnLine All 1445] has noted the judgment of State of
Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp
(1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426] , but did not advert to the relevant
facts of the present case, materials on which final report was
submitted by the IO. We, thus, are fully satisfied that the present is
a fit case where the High Court ought to have exercised its 36 jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC and quashed the criminal
 proceedings." 24. The documents comprising the case diary primarily the statements recorded

 under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure did not attribute the

 commission of the alleged+ offence by the present petitioners against the

 complainant. The petitioners at the relevant time were discharging their

 duties and the duty register had been seized by the Investigating Officer. Moreover, the witnesses namely Ratan Das, Ramkumar Sarkar and others

 vividly narrated the role of the complainant in obstructing the petitioners

 and the T.T.E. in discharging their official duties. 25. The instant complaint filed by the complainant is a sheer depiction of

 vengeance and grudge against the present petitioners without an iota of

 element to constitute the alleged offences mentioned in the charge-sheet. 26. In view of the above discussions, the entire proceedings of the Complaint

 Case No. 144C/2004 pending in the Court of the Learned Judicial

 Magistrate, 1st Class, in-charge of the Court of Sub-Divisional Judicial

 Magistrate, Kalyani, Nadia, the entire proceedings of Complaint Case No.

 81C of 2003 pending in the Court of Learned Sub-Divisional Judicial

 Magistrate, Kalyani, Nadia and the proceedings being Ranaghat G.R.P.S.

 Case No. 2 dated 06.01.2004 under Sections 143 / 342 / 352 / 323 / 506 / 309 of the Indian Penal Code, pending in the Court of Learned Additional Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, Ranaghat, Nadia are quashed. 27. Under such circumstances, CRR 1353 of 2005, CRR 1432 of 2003 and CRR

 2591 of 2005 are allowed. 28. Accordingly, CRR 1353 of 2005, CRR 1432 of 2003 and CRR 2591 of 2005

 stand disposed of. Connected applications, if there be any, also stand

 disposed of. 29. There is no order as to costs. 30. Trial Court records along with a copy of this judgment be sent down at once

 to the Learned Trial Court for necessary action. 31. Photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be given to the parties on

 priority basis on compliance of all formalities. (Ananya Bandyopadhyay, J.)